I'm going to challenge you Brady, do you 
remember some calculus from school days?  - (Brady: No I don't.)
Good, okay. I- I think a lot   of Numberphile viewers will remember calculus - 
don't you? Good, yeah you remember calculus. But   I want to show you a calculus question and even 
if, Brady, you're not familiar enough I think   you'll be interested by the conclusion of it. 
Let's find out. We're going to do some integration   and we're going to integrate a familiar 
function; we've talked about trigonometry before,   but this time it's not just the integral 
of sin(x) it's the integral of sin (x)  multiplied by cosine(x) dx and that's with 
respect to x so it's just saying I'm using x   variables. And I'm using an indifferent integral 
for the sake of whether or not you remember this   stuff - I'm not putting limits in, we'll talk 
more about what difference that makes at the end.   That's the question, it's an absolutely standard 
looking question from sort of A level exam sort of   difficulty. If any viewers want to try it before 
I talk more about it I think now is a good time. In what's becoming a theme for me I 
want to do this in more than one way;   because if you do things in more than one way 
you should find that the answers tally up and   then you have more confidence in the answers and 
you might get insights as I've maybe talked about   in other places. But let's do method 1 to start.
Method 1 for me here is using a trigonometric fact   which is the idea that sin of double of an angle 
- this is just the sin function with two of a   thing - there's this identity to say it's the same 
as two lots of sin(x)cos(x). And trigonometric   identities let you transform trigonometry 
into other types of trigonometry. And this   one is obviously useful in our case, we've got 
sin(x)cos(x) on one side so we can turn it into   something else. If I just write this a half sin(2x) 
then I've got exactly what I had in my integration   earlier. Very quickly I'm going to get sloppy in 
my notation and stop writing these brackets - I   hope you don't get offended.
- (I'm cool with it)
- I'm glad. Okay so my integration can turn into this   so I'm actually going to label this as I so I can 
always refer- that's my original question. If I get   I equals a number or a expression I'm done. So I 
equals the integral; changing that for this is a   half sin(2x). And I'm sure some viewers will have 
tried this method: I could take the half out the   front and this is the bit that maybe you remember 
but I can integrate sin(x) - the integral of sin is   negative cos or negative cosine. But I've got to 
do a couple of things, I've got the 2x here and   this is where you have to sort of think about the 
chain rule. It's going to be something to do with   cosine 2x with a negative sign, but if I 
differentiate that which is the inverse   process you end up with a 2, so I need a half. 
That is not an integration sign anymore, those   square brackets mean I've done the integration. 
So tidying this up I'm going to write negative   a quarter cosine(2x). And before anyone shouts 
at me all A level students will remember to add   a + C because when you integrate you have 
a constant coming up - more on that later. That's   method 1 and there's not a lot of insight, that 
feels like it's just the answer to the question.  The punchline comes when we try another method. 
Method 2: there's a neat method for this one, you   can realize that uh sin and cosine differentiate 
to each other which is kind of the inverse of what   we're doing but if you spot a situation where 
you've got two a product or two things and one   of them is the differential of the other there's a 
neat shortcut, so that's what I'm going to exploit   in this one. I'm going to notice that if I rewrote 
this as the integral of sin(x) times cosine(x) to   the power 1 - which feels completely pointless, 
I mean you know that's the same thing, but a lot   of A level students will get used to the fact 
that if you've got a bracket with any power up   here and you've got the differential of what's 
inside on the outside there's a neat shortcut. So   you can try an integration by just integrating 
this bracket and raising the power by 1, which   would mean writing cosine(x) squared - I'm going 
to write y equals here. And I can check whether   this is what- I've written the word try, I don't 
think that's the answer, but if I differentiate   that it should go back to where we started so 
that's a way of sort of naively integrating   things, you you try and answer and check if it 
differentiates back. So if you differentiate   this one, the 2 comes down the front and you 
get cosine(x) to the one and then you've got   to do the chain rule, multiply the differential of the 
insides so I multiply that by negative sin(x). Tidying   that up you get negative 2 sin(x)cos(x) which 
I invite you to compare with our original thing;   it's pretty close, it's just a negative 2 out. So actually If I multiply this by negative a half   that will track through and compensate. So all of 
that- so I'm pretty sure that that is the integral,   let me write I equals negative a half cosine(x) 
squared + C. First observation - how's your memory? (It's different)
- It's different. So which one's 
correct? Well we're not done yet, before we   answer which one's correct I want to show you at 
least one more method if that's ok? Third one is very similar, I'm going to do it much quicker, it's almost the 
mirror of the second one. So let's just separate   them but it's going to be very close, the idea 
being that sin and cosine differentiate to each   other so I picked cosine to try for this one 
knowing that the chain rule thing I did here   would give me close to what I want. I can do the 
other way around, so I could try y equals sin(x)   squared. And if I differentiate that you get 2 
sin(x) to the power 1 and then multiply by the   differential of what's inside, which is cosine(x). 
This is even neater, so this is just 2 sin(x)cos(x)   which is very like what I wanted, it's just got a 
factor of 2 out. So that means if I put a half   here it would have worked exactly. So that means 
the integral is a half sin(x) squared + C. Which is different. I'm making a big sigh out 
of this because I think you've got the point   by now, is that these methods are all valid, 
I've checked them, but they do seem to be   giving me different answers which we will need 
to resolve because there should be one answer.   Let's do one more before we resolve it. 
- (Can't those answers be the same?)
- You tell me
- (I don't know, maybe)   (they're the same thing.)
- Is sin(x) the same as cosine(x)?
- (Well I'd imagine not; but I don't) (know what C is and there's halves and that minuses and-)
- It's a pleasure working with you   Brady, you are asking the right questions about the 
right things. And let's answer them in good time.   Method 4 - this is my favourite one, I like 
this one. Let's set up the question again   just in case everyone's forgotten. This time 
we've got sin(x) times cos (x), it's a it's   a product multiplication, but there's a rule in 
integration called integration by parts which   quite often deals with products. So integration 
by parts, just to remind everyone, the integral   of a thing which is something times something 
else you can rewrite. If you think of the product   as something that's been differentiated and 
something that hasn't then you can rewrite   it as an integral of uv subtract the integral 
of du/dx v. That's non-trivial formula and it's   not obvious why that works but the point is 
that you can take an integration of two things   uh which are difficult and turn into something 
which doesn't need integrating and something   which is kind of the other way around. So the thing 
that was differentiated is now integrated and the   thing was not differentiated is now differentiated.
And if you can arrange for that to make your life   simpler this is a good way through an integration 
question. And that was your lesson of integration   by parts over, we're going to use it. I'm going 
to call this one u and this one dv/dx - so that's   sort of matching up with this idea here. Which 
means I have to get the other versions of it, so   u equals sin(x) and then differentiating that 
gives me cosine(x). dv/dx equals cosine(x) and   integrating that would be v equals integral of cos is 
sin(x). So this is my little table, I can use all   these things over here. So I becomes uv - that's sin 
times sin so sin(x) times sin(x) is sin squared (x). I'm now using some notation which everybody 
uses by the way; before I was writing uh sin(x)   in brackets squared, which no one argues with but 
no one writes. This is terrible notation but I'm   going to deal with it and if you want to talk to 
me about why it's terrible notation write polite   emails to me. Only polite ones! It confuses with 
function notation- anyway that's the uv bit and   then subtract, following this formula, the integral 
of du that's a cosine(x) times v which is sin(x).   Now does this look familiar Brady?
- (That's what- that's I again isn't it?)
- Yeah, it's just written the other   way around but multiplication could happen 
either way around. So it feels like we've   gone in circles and we're like, well we haven't 
made anything easier, I still don't know how to   integrate that, except if I write it as I I've got 
a formula here that I equals sin squared x minus I. And they don't cancel out; if I add I to 
both sides I get 2I equals sin squared x   and I equals half sin squared x. But I did forget a + C that should have happened up here somewhere. Half sin squared x? This was method 4. 
And I like it because the integration   by parts feels like a magic formula 
but you get this neat cancellation.   The trouble is it's not the same as the 
other answers so: it's the same as that one,   and there's my notation issue, that's what 
that means. It's not the same as that one,   and it's not the same as that one and- 
- (Majority rules? Go with-)
- So so only one can be right,   correct, although you did ask about astute question 
earlier, do you remember what you asked?   (We don't know the value of C.)
- Yeah so C is a consonant and when 
you're doing an indefinite integration you have   to leave it as an unknown constant, unless you 
put limits on it which means you're calculating an   area you don't know what that constant is. But these 
answers do look different. So by way of reconciling   them let's sort out whether majority should rule 
and only one of them is correct or if there's   something else going on - and it's probably time we 
get GeoGebra out to have a look at these functions   if that's okay? 
- (All right)
- So- I mean let's look at 
the original function we're trying to integrate   but first of all: sin(x) times cosine(x) looks 
like that. Actually looks like a sin wave, that's   not a coincidence, in fact the first method we 
did turned it into sin of 2x - it's a sin wave   with twice the speed. Doesn't really matter what it 
looks like although you should draw functions if   you're going to integrate them I think. The first answer 
we got I'm going to flip back to Method 1,  negative a quarter cos 2x, I'm going to plot 
that on the screen. I'm actually going to hide   the original function. Negative a quarter times 
cosine of 2x. That is what the answer should look   like apparently, according to method 1. Method 2 
got us negative a half cos squared x, let's plot that   one. If they're the same answer they should be 
the same function right? So negative a half cos   x and I'm going to put that in Brackets and square 
it - because notation gets confusing, we've already   been through this. What's nice is it looks the 
same pattern but it's not the same function, it's   shifted. Let's do the other one which - to cut a 
long story short - a half sin(x) squared. (I think I know what's going to happen here.)
- You think you 
know what's going to happen? I think most people   know what's going to happen and they're kicking 
themselves if they didn't get it immediately   because integration- oh look it's the same function 
but shifted. And the last one actually got us the   same answer. So the point is these are not 
the same answers. And if you forgot to write   + C at the end; and + C at the end and + C at the end on all of them they would be different   functions but that + C means, if you add a 
constant on the end of a function, what happens?  It just shifts up or down. Really salutory lesson, 
when you're doing integration don't forget the   + C because you will be wrong. These answers are 
not the same unless you take into account they're the   same barring a shift up or down.
- (So they were kind of the same.)
- They are kind of the same, and that's- the reason   I like this is that the the same question which 
is relatively easy for A level standard things   does turn out to what- have- what looks like three 
different answers and reminds you that they would   be different if you forget the + C. And if you 
ask a computer to integrate this computers can do   it - I'll show you what happens. You feel like it it 
can't plump for all three at once, it's got to pick   one. Luckily GeoGebra will do some integration 
so integral- integral of sin(x)cosine(x)   it's actually given me this last one here, 
half sin squared x. So it's plump for the   last one, the majority rule in fact, the one we 
got twice, but something else has happened. And   this is really subtle and I'm really glad that 
GeoGebra does this: it's also made this little C bit   at the bottom and it's hidden it, that blue 
thing means it's not visible. But if I uh   make it visible it means it's made a little 
slider up here and saying, it doesn't know what   C1 is, because if you change it the graph shifts 
up and down. So built into this piece of software   is the saying, if you ask for an integral that's 
indefinite it can only give you an answer up to   a constant. And what's a relief is if you do the 
maths on this you get three looking different   answers but they are the same as long as you're add 
the + C. 
- (Which technique would a school student)   (have used do you think?)
- I think the- what they 
call the double angle formula which is the first   one we did, turning sin(x)cos(x) into sin 
of 2x is the best recommendation I'd give to   an a-level student that's a 18 year old because 
it's neat um and it's a good lesson knowing trig   identity because they help you turn complicated 
things into simpler things you can work with.   Having said that I really like the integration 
by parts thing because it's that nice sepa-   self-referential thing; you think you're not 
making any progress and then it all drops out.  And the other method is good too, because uh it's 
not obvious but when you actually do that method   it's quite quick. So I've dodged your question I think haven't I?
- (The thing I take away from this)   (is C really covers your butt doesn't it?)
- Yeah. And maybe the important- understanding what you're   doing when integrating, if you don't have limits 
on integration you're finding an area under a   function without telling anybody where you're 
going to start counting area from. So it's like   drawing- colouring in under these graphs but 
you're not saying where's the start point. It   could be the origin, it could be somewhere else, and 
that's why when you do an indefinite integration   you are generating AN area function not THE area 
function because there is more than one and it's   only different by a C. There you go, that was 
your A level integration lesson Brady. We've   pretty much covered all available techniques of
integration in that so uh exam next week. 
- (I'm ready) I seem to recall I was pretty good 
at calculus in high school, but now I remember   absolutely nothing, it's like a foreign language to 
me. If you'd like to refresh your memory or learn   from scratch well there's nowhere better than 
today's episode sponsor, Brilliant. Rather than just   watching or reading, you interact with these online 
courses and lessons. The absolute best way to get   something wired into your brain or rewired into 
your brain is using stuff like this. I love all   these sliders and gizmos, gives me a better feel 
for what I'm doing. So whatever your age or skill   set Brilliant is going to have something for you. 
And by the way you can get 20% off their premium   subscription by going to brilliant.org/numberphile.
Check them out, maybe like me you can recapture   some long lost knowledge. There will be 
a link in the video description.  ...definitely do the number 20... Could we for example work our way up? Can do 
1? Can we do 2? Turns out 2 is really easy.   You can see these two triangles makes 1.