- AirPods Pro for 250 bucks? No way! (laughs) Welcome to Crazy
Uncle Riley's Apple Emporium where I got prices on
Apple products so low, I'd have to be crazy to sell 'em. AirPods 2? (laughs) Their newfangled AirPods 3? (laughs) All genuine, 100% real. Guys, just kidding.
It's me, regular Riley. These are all fake, super fake. But are they real enough
that they could trick someone into thinking they're real? Real like our sponsor. This video is sponsored by GlassWire. Instantly see who or what
your PC is talking to on GlassWire's network monitoring graph. Plus see what your PC may
have connected to in the past. Use code Linus and get 25% off
GlassWire at the link below. (bright music) After covering knockoff AirPods Max, we received a package
with a letter attached. "Dear LTT, those old and
outdated replicas you've tested are like buying a Dell prebuilt
when you want a gaming PC." They sent us two clones that they claim are as
good as the real things, AirPods Pro at $55 and AirPods 2 at $35. And something they didn't
even mention in the letter, AirPods 3 clones at $42. To see if these can pass as
genuine, we took these boxes to our resident Apple
expert Jonathan Horst. - [Adam] Without opening the box, do these look legit to you? - You know what, I have to say no, because I reviewed these and I remembered how
fake the real box looked. Oh yeah, this is totally real. Yeah. Yeah, that's a dead giveaway. - [Adam] What's the giveaway? - Probably the CSA logo
'cause that's Canadian and we're in Canada and they
have to put that on there. - [Adam] There is a difference
in the print quality. - Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's like, this is like
ink jet, this is like laser. So I'm opening these up. You can tell the difference already, but just with the way the light, the indicator light is
inset on the device. Well, I guess it really depends on whether or not you've seen a real pair. If you've seen a real pair, yeah, you'd be able to tell immediately, particularly with the way the mesh is. If it was just based off
product shots, then yeah. You probably, you might be like, "Oh yeah, that looks pretty convincing". But that's the thing with these knockoffs is you start questioning yourself and you start questioning reality. Yeah, if you wanted to just
look like you're wearing AirPods out on the street, no
one would be the wiser. - But how do they sound? To test, we got a few people
from around the office and ran an experiment. - My name is Ethan. - I'm Lloyd. - Chase. - I'm Sarah. - I write for Channel Super Fun. - I've been working on like a lot of like really cool T-shirts. - I'm supposed to be an event coordinator. - I am a graphic designer. Go to lttstore if you're
interested in seeing some of the projects
that I get to work on. - [Riley] Our subjects will now listen to each pair of headphones
while blindfolded and will choose which pair of AirPods they think sounded better. They'll also tell us how confident they are in their decision with a value from one to five, with one being a wild guess and five being complete certainty. ♪ Ooh yeah ♪ - My instant reaction is just, I can't hear the outside world more and I do like that for if
I'm trying to enjoy music. Oh, it feels like my ears are plugged. - It's like just richer and fuller. - Definitely the noise canceling
is something you notice as soon as you put them in, which is cool. - I don't know about these. With my Pros that I have, usually when I hear the white
noise and put them back in, it goes away, but for some reason I can
still like partially hear the white noise. - If I can't tell the
difference between any of these, then I spent way too much
money on my headphones. I could have just bought the old ones. - [Adam] Here's your
right. Here's your left. - It's kind of quieter, but I don't know if it's
just actually quieter. - I would say the bass is definitely much more over-prominent. - I couldn't really tell a
difference at the moment. Other than they were just
a little bit quieter. I could definitely tell
you that these ones, I don't know if they, I would say they don't
go in your ears easily. - These sound terrible. - [Adam] Really? - They have like almost a
static coming from them. - I pick the first one. - Based solely on the sound,
I like the first pair. I thought it sounded
just like a touch better. - The first one, and I'm five, I'm like on a scale of
one to five, I'm five. - [Adam] Okay. - I'm five. - I would say like a one on that one. - Two. - I am, yeah, one out of five confidence. Not very confident, but
there's something there. - Wow, unsurprisingly,
everyone chose the real AirPods as the better pair. But none of our subjects were
confident in their answers, with two of them saying
it was a coin toss. The sole outlier was Sarah, who was very certain the
real ones were better, but her confidence rating
may have been skewed by some errors encountered during testing. - [Adam] Apparently it's disconnected. - Uh-oh. Do you need them back? Hmm, you don't usually have
to do this with Apple AirPods. ♪ Ooh yeah ♪ - They sound the same. I
don't know if I'm crazy. They sound maybe a bit less bassy, but oh nah, they're the same. I couldn't tell you. - They're very light. I would
say they're comfortable. I definitely can hear a
lot of sound from outside. - There's a little bit less
bass on them at the moment. I would say that I don't really notice much of a difference at this time. - [Adam] This is the right
earbud. This is the left earbud. - All right.
- Put 'em in. - I don't know if it's just
the problem with my ears, but so far the fit is like
better on the right ear. I would enjoy this, I would.
There's a lot of bass. - The sound from this
is much fuller, I think. I feel like this one is not
as well made as the first one. - So far, the only
difference I really noticed was just like a ton of bass. I don't mind a ton of bass, but I don't usually have it cranked. So for me, when there's a lot
more bass on new headphones, it's a little jarring sometimes. - They sound good. Like, yeah. I feel like I'm at a concert,
but I can't see anything. - It's actually better than
my AirPods, I feel like. My AirPod Pros. - I would say I'm very certain that I like the second one better. - The confidence levels are terrible. I'd say two out of five from confidence. - I'd be like a two, maybe. - Five out of five. - I'd say my confidence
is like a 4.5 out of 5. - Wow, a clear winner. The $35 knockoffs actually
beat the real things. That's pretty crazy. To my ears, they have a
bit more oomph to the bass that the real AirPods lack, but it comes at the cost of precision, with kick drums sounding
more full, but less punchy. Other than that, the tuning is virtually
identical to the real thing. Now we have one more device to test, but in the seller's defense, they didn't intend for these to be sent along with the others. And, well, the results
speak for themselves. ♪ Ooh yeah ♪ - They sound pretty average. Do you wanna turn it up like all the way? Okay, it's way too loud. - These ones don't fit
as nicely in my ears. - I'm running out of things to say. These are just the normal headphones. I still enjoy them and still don't care. Oh God. - [Adam] We'll swap them out. - All right. - I would say I notice
a difference on these even right away. Part of it is probably the way that it doesn't fit in the ear quite as well as the other ones. And it sounded a little
bit off or different than the other four pairs. - I don't know if you're pausing it, but it keeps connecting in and
out, in and out, in and out. - I heard a little static, like beeping. Like (trills) I dunno how to describe it, but sounds like these got like sat on. - Personally, I like the first one better. I would say five. - 3.5. - I'd be like, that's like
a four out of five for sure. - 100% I would pick the other
ones that I like them better because they don't have
a weird static sound. Also the left ear played
music in the other ones. I am five out of five confident that I like the other headphones better. - Cool.
- These suck. - Big oof. The FakePods 3 did terribly. Every single test subject agreed with relatively high confidence that the replicas were much worse. They had some electrical noise. We couldn't get them to
connect to our iPhones, only to Android devices. Also, we couldn't get our case to charge via cable or MagSafe, so
these are already dead. Thanks for producing actual junk, Jenny. I hope no one actually wastes
42 bucks on these things. And don't waste money
buying a new controller just because the joysticks are drifting. We're gonna be fixing a
bunch of broken controllers for an upcoming video. So get subscribed so you don't miss it. Now those first two pairs,
those are nothing to sneeze at. If imitation is the
sincerest form of flattery, then Apple should be very, very flattered. They sound good, they look
good, but do they work good? First, let's look at the feature parody. Magic Pairing worked for all the clones. Battery life was acceptable,
but worse than the real things. Recharge time was fine. Wireless charging worked
on all of the cases, except for the AirPods 3,
which wouldn't charge at all. But battery reporting was
wonky with the replicas. They would like just die suddenly while reporting 18% battery life. Huh? The case battery life on
the FakePros seemed good, but on the Fake 2s, the case seemed to constantly be draining and we weren't sure why. Maybe a reporting error due
to the knockoff chip set? The active noise canceling
on the FakePods Pro when listening to music was pretty good, but without music there was a slight hiss and a not so slight bass rumbling that was literally headache inducing. As for the Find My network, while all the devices
can be located using GPS, you can't make the headphones chirp or use any of the other Find My features. Spatial audio and MagSafe? Nope. Touch controls on the
FakePods 2? Terrible. They basically don't work. The FakePods Pro? You need to squeeze the stem so firmly, you will almost certainly
pull them out of your ear. Plus all the fakes tended to suddenly stop
connecting to iPhones and require a soft reset. And here's the real fun part, if you wanna update the
firmware on either of these, you need to have an Android device, download an app from the Play Store, use that to sideload an
APK, download the firmware, open it in the app, and then
slowly update over Bluetooth. That's if these companies even bother to release updated
firmware for these chips. It's not fun. But on the plus side, the app has an EQ, unless you turn on A and C on
the A and C less FakePods 2, so you can make this happen. Oh, it's beautiful. Even though these products may have competitive audio
quality and crazy low price tags, FakePods 2 are a full Benjamin cheaper and the Fakepods Pro
saving nearly twice that, we still aren't going to recommend them or even tell you where to get them. I mean, you can probably figure it out using the info in this video
and novice Googling skills, but we don't feel comfortable supporting the reptronics industry with its consumer hostility
and regulation dodging. If large companies like Apple and Samsung struggle to suss out
human rights violations in their supply chains, well, imagine what these
nameless faceless companies could be doing. And look at the FakePods 3, you could just end up with
garbage, literal garbage. Instead, we'd recommend spending that cash on some high quality, budget,
true wireless headphones that we will have listed
for you down below. But people don't want
that. They want AirPods. The question is why do
people want AirPods so bad that entire communities have emerged specifically
to procure knockoffs? Well, even though audiophiles may not care what their
headphones look like, tech is fashion now. And like luxury clothing brands, Apple has gone to great lengths to make their products feel
like an exclusive club. Green bubbles versus blue bubbles. Lock-in features like
AirDrop and FaceTime. The entire Apple ecosystem serves as a purposeful class divide. If you aren't wealthy enough to pay the entry price to join that club, well, you're stuck with the Android plebs and their weak-ass open standards and basic text messaging, pah! But a pair of knockoffs
could be the fake ID that tricks others into thinking you are part of those chosen elite. So don't be tricked and don't buy these. But do check out our sponsor. Thanks to Squarespace for
sponsoring this video. Is making a website a monumentally
hard task in your mind? Well, it doesn't have to be. Use Squarespace and you'll
get a website up and running in a matter of hours, maybe
even faster than that. They have award-winning templates that will help make
your website stand out, instead of it looking
like it's from the '90s. If you're interested in
how your website is doing, they have built-in tools to help you find out
what you're doing right and what you're doing wrong. Our own Linus Media Group website was built quickly using Squarespace. So head to squarespace.com/LTT and you can get 10% off today. Hey, thanks for watching guys. If you liked this video,
go check out our video we did on the fake AirPods Max headphones. What a saga this has been.