- Compared to AMD, Intel's box coolers are kind of an embarrassment. Their main workhorse for
many years, the E97378-003, has about as much sex appeal
as its name would imply, but what's this? Oooooh, at first you're
thinking, damn Intel, how you get all fine like that? And then you're like,
"But are those even real?" And that's kinda where
I find myself today. Alongside their 12 Gen CPUs, Intel launched three new stock coolers, the RH1, RM1 and RS1. As you can see, we only got two of them, but they're the most important ones and once we got them disrobed, we realized there is a lot
more here than meets the eye. Beauty and brawn perhaps? Perhaps, perhaps I'll tell you
about our sponsor, SignalRGB. With SignalRGB, you can control and sync your favorite RGB
devices all from one app. Best of all, it's free. Download SignalRGB at the link down below. (upbeat music) For nearly 13 years,
Intel's consumer platforms used the same 75 millimeter
mounting hole pattern which has been great for consumers. I mean, who doesn't wanna
carry their old cooler forward to their new system? But with 12th Gen, that's finally changed. Alder Lake is Intel's
biggest performance leap in many years and to pull it off, they needed a new much larger CPU socket which appears to be the driving force behind the new expanded 78
millimeter mounting holes. These obsoleted every previous
Intel compatible cooler including Intel Zone, resulting
in the creation of these. Standing at 47 and 69
millimeters respectively, nice, the RM1 and RH1's new design
language is a refreshing change from the value optimized
Intel coolers of the past. The larger model features knurled stainless steel captive
thumb screws for mounting, a pleasing two-tone finish,
addressable RGB lighting and enough cooling capacity
for the core i9-12900 and 12900F processors
that it ships alongside. As for the RM1, this little guy borrows design
cues from its bigger brother. You got your black anodized
aluminum cooling fins, sleeved four-pin fan connector
and stylish crown profile, but there are definitely
some cut corners here. The plastic pushpins are
certainly an improvement over previous generations,
but they're plastic and gone is the RGB lighting, accent machining and included backplate. It's the RM1 though that
you'll find included alongside core i3, core
i5 and core i7 CPUs, which means that this is the unit that most people will actually end up with and while it appears
smaller and more basic and therefore probably worse, what's interesting is that Intel's entire multiplier
locked core series lineup, all the way from i3 to i9 is rated rated at the same 65 watt TDP which immediately made us wonder, well, why wouldn't they just use the same cooler for all of them? To really understand what's going on here, we need to look at the performance of a few generations
of Intel stock coolers. All of them were adapted to work on our MSI Pro
Z698 Wi-Fi motherboard and we used a core i7-12700
as our standard thermal load. Now, Intel has traditionally offered three mainstream cooling solutions. A basic all extruded
aluminum fin heat sink, a second more performant
variant of the same, this time with a copper slug pressed into the center
to add thermal mass and facilitate faster
heat transfer to the fins, that's the one we're gonna focus on today, and occasionally, they've done
these weird tall boy versions for higher TDP chips. These had remained essentially unchanged for the better part of a decade until the introduction
of the LGA 1200 socket for 10th and 11th gen chips. That saw our old standby here dumped for a younger sleeker cousin now with more black and less mass. Hmm, so Intel kept the
construction method, the profile, the fin count and even the performance the same and yet they dropped 17 grams
of weight, about 11% overall. It turns out they did so by
machining out more copper from the center slug
and this is really cool because it goes to show
you just how much copper has gone up in price
over the last 10 years. It's at the point where when you're operating at Intel scale, machining out that 17 extra
grams of copper per heat sink then pressing it into
pucks and recycling it manages to be more cost effective than just leaving it in there. Now let's our new unit stack
up starting with the RM1. We tested with Blender BMW, which is about a five
minute test on this chip, in three different fan profiles. In our noise normalized profile, the RM1 was disappointingly exactly on par with our older style coolers. Then in the auto profile, it managed, well, extremely
similar performance again within about 1/2 a
degree and at full speed, the RM1 managed to run as
much as two degrees cooler across multiple tests. But wait, how could that be that you've got no performance
difference at one fan speed and a significant one
at another fan speed? Well, one factor could
be the solid copper core at the heart of this new
series, that's right. In spite of the ever
increasing cost of this metal, Intel put so much into these new coolers that they weigh nearly
double the last gen design. We think that this could be to accommodate the aggressive turbo boost
behavior of 12-gen core CPU, but there's a big asterisk on our results and that's fan performance. While doing research for this video, we found out that Intel actually published the full design specs for
their LGA 115X cooler family, the older ones, and digging through these, we found out that there
were three manufacturers of the exact same skew,
Foxconn, Delta and Nidec. Going deeper into these documents, we found that the fan RPM
specification varies by 8.25% and that's on top of the plus or minus 10% that the fan can operate at
while still meeting Intel spec. If the new generation is a similar story, that means that we could easily
see a larger performance gap from just one cooler to the next compared to one generation of coolers to the next generation. With that in mind, we still think it's worth testing the RH1 to see how it might compare. The differences were underwhelming, less than one degree between the much taller
version of the cooler and the little skinny chicken one. In both, are noise normalized
and full speed tests. It did manage to shave
15 seconds off our render and sustain a 50 megahertz
higher clock speed throughout the run compared to the RM1, so the extra mass in the
cooler is making a difference. I just feel like that difference
could have been bigger and I've gotta question Intel's use of thick chunky fins here
because a lot of smaller fins would've had more surface area and therefore probably better performance. So I'm left feeling like aesthetics took a priority over performance in spite of the fact
that these are shipping with core i9 CPUs and on that note, I didn't even mention the cute little back lit
spinner hub cap on the fan hub. That's definitely purely aesthetic. Now, we didn't get to
testing these coolers against AMD's Wraith offerings
for a couple of reasons. One is the different
mountings systems of course, but that is the sort of thing that will be happening in
the near future with LTT labs and the second reason is that
we just didn't really have to. They're so much better. You don't even need me to tell you. With that said, I still
need to commend Intel for value engineering a small
but measurable improvement to their previous thermal solutions and more than that, I'm glad they took the time to make this new generation of coolers just attractive enough
to not look horrible in the tempered glass side panel world that we find ourselves in today. They're also quiet enough to
go unnoticed by most people especially any of those of you who are lucky enough to also
have a presumably louder GPU. So 12th generation Intel is making the CPU industry
competitive again. We're reaping the rewards. That is after AMD made the CPU
industry competitive again. All we need now is for Intel to finally drop their Alchemist GPU to shake up that side of things. So get subscribe so you don't miss, wait, oh, don't miss our sponsor, Squarespace. We use Squarespace, no joke. We use it both for linusmediagroup.com and for ltxexpo.com. RIP LTX, someday it'll return. Both of those sites were built quickly and easily using Squarespace and just about anyone
on staff can maintain it as long as they've got the credentials. We better lock that down. If you haven't heard
of Squarespace already, it's an all in one platform
that makes it super simple to get your website up
and running quickly. If you have a home business,
you definitely need one. You can sell things, you can choose from tons
of different templates, finding the one that makes
the most sense for you and running with it and if you need help,
Squarespace offers webinars, a full series of help guides and you can even contact
their 24/7 support team via live chat and email. So don't wait, go to squarespace.com/ltt and get 10% off today. If you're looking for
another video to watch, go check out our launch review of Intel's Alder Lake 12th-gen core CPUs. They are a lot better
than what they had before which is good.