60 years ago I was 11 years old. Radio was the 
medium of the 1960s, at least when I was growing up, it was great I loved it. And I used to tape record 
radio programs, not just programs but music and   commercials and things like this. One commercial 
stuck in my mind when I was 11 see: there's   something wrong with this commercial, this doesn't 
scan for me, I don't like it. I was 11 years old and   I couldn't figure out what was wrong with it but 
it felt wrong. Let me play it for you and you can   hear the same thing and probably you'll instantly 
recognize what's wrong with this radio jingle. Ok, you've heard it, you can see-
- [Commercial]: Extra beans means extra- I'm sure that you realize what I realize now, 
but young 11 year old Cliff did not realize;   two beans times two beans isn't four beans. Basic algebra says two beans times 
two beans is four beans squared.   It's dimensionally wrong. Almost the first thing 
you learn in physics is watch those units. If   you square the number you'd better square the 
units also; two kilometers times two kilometers   is four square kilometers. Two inches times 
two inches for those in America is four   square inches. So what's a square bean? Damned if I 
know - but then they go worse! They're not satisfied   with mucking up dimensional analysis; it's 
dimensionally inhomogeneous! Two beans times   two beans is four beans, Nescafe gives you 
lots more beans. Four beans times ten beans   and add three more beans - well let's 
think about the dimensionality of that.  Four beans times ten beans -
- [Ten beans times four beans and add three more beans make 43 rich coffee beans.]  You cannot add square beans to 
ordinary beans, you don't get 43 beans you get   40 square beans plus three ordinary beans. So 
let's look at that and take them a little bit seriously. (Brady: So they said two beans times two beans, 
which is four square beans-)
- Can I use this as a chalkboard? (Get some sharpies.)
- I got sharpies by the tub. 
- (Ok. I just don't remember what the lyric was) "Two beans times two beans is four beans" - 
hold on for a second. Two beans times two beans   is four beans squared. 
- (What are we adding?) 
- "Nescafe uses lots more beans" - maybe. Ten beans   times four beans and add three more beans - 
oh let's stop right there. Ten beans times   four beans and add three more beans makes what? Ten 
beans times four beans is forty beans squared plus   three beans is equal to - hey! This is a quadratic 
equation! 40b² + 3b equals what?  (Are they supposedly getting this four beans from 
what they thought- )
- Yeah! 
- (Okay so that's- so that's) (not in addition that's- we forget that now and we 
just- they've just like. So that should really)  (be four beans squared times ten-)
- Yes! Grady you've got it- Grady? I said Grady.
- (Nice to meet you Cliff, I'm Brady!) So one way of looking at this is to take each 
lyric as a separate arithmetic algebraic statement; another way to do it would be what Brady has 
in his mind of combining them. Let's first take   Nescafe at their word lyric by lyric. Well they 
said "ten beans times four beans, and add   three more beans make-" well- this equals 43 
beans. So let's solve this as a quadratic. 10 beans times 4 beans plus 3 beans equals 43 
beans. Easy to subtract three beans from each   each side and you get 10 
beans² - oh oops 40  square beans equals - subtract 3b from each side - equals 40b. So 40   square beans equals 40 beans, let's divide by 
b on both sides and we get 40 beans equals 40.   Well solve that by dividing by 40 on both sides, 
we find that beans equals 1. Oh you get one bean. No? 
- (All right, yeah, yeah.)
- Let's start this all over again. (Would you want the brown paper then?)
- Let's look at the next equation that they're talking about. 
[Bell rings]  Somebody's at the front 
door. Let's look at the next eq- 
[Bell rings again] Okay, clearly the first equation of this Nescafe 
jingle is wrong. Two beans times two beans isn't   four beans, it's four beans squared, four beans
squared. But what about the second Nescafe equation?   Ten beans times four beans, and add three more 
beans, makes forty rich coffee beans. So let's   scribble it down - 10 beans times four beans - "and add 
three more beans" - and add three more beans makes   43 rich coffee beans. Let's solve this substituting 
b for beans. 10b times 4b plus 3b equals 43b.   Combine terms on the left we find first multiply 
this 40b², combine these on the left side   40b² minus 40b is zero - that's a quadratic 
equation! So that's some kind of interesting   equation, let's factor it. So if you factor it it 
graphs into a parabola and it factors into 40b   times b minus 1, which says it's got real roots, 
it's got a root at 0 - 40 times zero times zero   minus - well yep that's right. Also has root 
at 1; 40 times 1 minus 1 -  yep. So-   Come on, turn on, turn on. Zero and 1 are the 
roots of this quadratic.
- (They're the values)   (of b, that's what a bean is?)
- Yeah, yeah, well that's the solution to this Nescafe equation.   On the other hand, suppose we expand the 
entire jingle; combine the first part - dimensionally inaccurate - with the second part -
dimensionally and homogeneous - and let's see what   we get then. Suppose instead of four beans I say 
four beans squared? So let's try it there.   Ten beans times four beans 
squared plus three beans equals   43 beans. Now things get really tasty! Let's solve 
this one: this part is easy, same as before, minus 40b,  10b times 4b² is 40b³, b times b². 
40b³ minus 40b   equals zero. Well let's get rid of the 40s 
and we find that we get a cubic. b³ minus   b equals zero. That's an interesting cubic. Okay, 
first of all it's obvious, zero is a solution.  Zero is the root of that guy. I'll leave 
it to the viewer to figure out the solution   to b³ minus b is zero - obviously zero solves 
it - but another interesting question is    what's 43 beans? I think yes yes yes yes yes yes! I put 43 beans into a Klein bottle so as to 
make at least one of these mathematicians   happy. So I put 43 beans into a Klein bottle - 
actually it smells nice having coffee beans.   At this point it's worth saying that coming full circle- oops
[Phone ringing]   In fact one of these fell out so this- I don't care. 
Two mathematicians, Alfréd Rényi and Paul Erdős, have   been credited with saying a mathematician 
is a device to turn coffee into theorems. It   didn't occur to me that this would work in 
a very literal way; and so before any number   of mathematicians on my wall I'd say my smiles 
to you from Oakland, California. It's Cliff Stoll. This episode has been sponsored by 
the brilliant people at Brilliant!   You must know them by now, makers of interactive 
online courses, puzzles, problems - things that   are going to tickle your brain, make you 
smarter. I love how interactive everything is,   all the sliders and movable parts; they really 
give you a feeling for the problems, they get   your mind working in new ways. I love this stuff, 
it always brings a smile to my face. They say   it's suitable for ages 10 to 110 but surely 9 
and 111 year olds are going to enjoy these too.   Go and have a look, it's brilliant.org/numberphile. 
That URL is going to get you 20% off a premium   subscription. You can also give Brilliant as a 
gift, and there really is something for everyone. It only weighs 60 or 70 pounds! A 
portable calculator smaller than a piano,   you can't get cooler than that! Let's try 
to just add 3 - crank this around once - 3 once is 3. Again: 3 + 3 
is 6, again, 9! And then 12, 15...