- You just finished
building your new gaming rig and it looks awesome, but
there's one big problem. The cables are boring. Sure, Keyboards come with
generic sleep cables these days and the majority of power supplies have moved on from ketchup
and mustard to black. But where's the personality in that? How do you set your build apart
from the rest of it there? Well, don't worry. Custom sleeve cables aren't for
diehard enthusiasts anymore. And with a bit of know-how you can make your own, just be careful because we're not taking
any responsibility If you accidentally fry your board, you just spent a couple
hundred dollars on. But don't worry, right? It's going to be fine. The G. SKILL trident Z Royal
elite series represents peak DDR for performance and is designed with a beautiful
crystalline pattern across it's polished aluminum heat spreader. Get yours today using the link below. (Theme song) - So, it's one hell of
a first-world problem. But right now I'm stuck using
this super long cable to plug my phone into my car. And it looks awful. Not only is it plain, but the access gets tangled
up and I can't really close the chummy and it's just
gross. So let's fix that. Typically, if you only
need a single cable, you're probably better
off ordering something from a custom site. But if you like DIY and
like to have it your own way or building an entire set, then building your own
cable is a great way to go. If I'm honest, I've
never done this before. The script says it's easy enough. You just add some para cord
and some Sutter points. Right? - [Plouffe] Yeah. Technically. - So. Are we just doing it? - [Plouffe] Yeah. - Oh, sick. We're making a USB cable. It's you know, your standard electrical tools, soldering iron carbon filter,
wire, strippers, and cutters, a heat gun and some wood or metal dowel. We'll explain those last two later. We've also got a pair of helping hands to help keep things in
place as well as, well... the script says standard lighter. Ours didn't have fuel. So this is what we've got. for materials we've got some USB 2.0 cable para cord sleeving, USBC connectors, and their housing's. USBA connectors and also their housings. So you always need this stuff over here, but for personalization, you can go for just about
any color of para cord. Heat shrink and tech flags. This nifty purple one
right here is what I chose because I like it. But the options really
are pretty much endless. We've got a few examples here
today, but there are dozens, if not hundreds of different
patterns available online, we'll decide on the heat shrink color and whether or not I want to
add any tech flex later on. There are a few things to know
when ordering your supplies, primarily the size of everything. You can find thinner USB cable, which makes for an easier time sleeving, but you have to make sure
that you have the right size and shrink ratio for your shrink wrap, or it just won't stay on. And if you're making a
USB-C to USB-C cable, like I wanted to try and make today, you have to make sure you've
got at least one end with a 5.1 K ohm resistor on the
CC one and CC two ports. This helps the host device make
sense of the incoming signal when using USBC connectors
with USB two cables. So yeah, I guess our C to C connectors
didn't arrive in time. Ill kind of show you exactly
why we can't do it here. So this is the size of the
pads we're dealing with. And the resistor that we have is, well it's pretty much
bigger than the connector. So I think he can see why
that would work. So yeah, because of all of that, we'll be doing a classic USBC
to type A configuration today. By the way, if you guys love DIY stuff, make sure you're
subscribed because Linus is DIYing his whole new house right now. It's gonna be sick. (chuckle) Well, I guess if we're doing type A, it doesn't solve my car problems. So I kind of want to just have a long one. - [Plouffe] sure How expensive is this stuff? - [Plouffe] Not very - Not very? - [Plouffe] This role
was probably 20 bucks for 50 feet or something like that. - Okay. That's not bad. Okay. So now that I have this, I need equal length para cord? Is that what I'm seeing? - [Plouffe] correct Alright. So we just pull these strands out and that's how we're able to
put our cable in, I guess. So I'm having a bit of
trouble getting it in. I have just the tip. Do I just keep on going like this? or is there an easier way to do it? - So you want to fix the fray, so this is where the blow torch comes in. Normally we use a lighter. - Oh, okay. - Yeah. So you wanna set that bad boy, fire up and melt it. Oh my God you might have melted
it a little too closed. Okay, Let's don't breathe that in. - I feel like I made it worse. - Yeah. I feel like you did too. Yeah this definitely
seems like a lighter job instead of a ... - Yeah that's kind of why
I was hoping for a lighter - MAPP Gas wasn't working great. We're going to try just a touch of CA. Oh yeah, there we go. - Way better? - So this seems very
doable for like one cable, but if you want it to do like a 24 pin, how long would this take? - Luckily with 24 pin it's thinner. So the 18 gauge wire that we'll
be working with when we do the PCIE connector
later, it's not as hard. This is a thicker cable. So it takes a lot more effort
to actually get everything all the way through. So there's a USB-C. - Okay. - Here's a USB-A. - All right. - This is a lot easier to solder
because you just have to do these four channels
here. Whereas this one, you need to do those four little points. - These are helping hands.
You don't need them, but they make your life a lot easier. So we do have some flux core
solder. So you don't need it. But if you want for your
solder joints to look good, I would recommend putting
a little bit on there. So what the flux is doing
is just preventing air from getting in and making
your like solder joints, all gross and corroded, like, yeah. So Plouffe just brought this up, and I had the same concern
when I was soldering these, the heat shrink that
was on them, moved back. And if they touch your device is dead. So are we doing anything to fix that? - Well, we could glue the whole thing. - Oh, I'm there for that. Yeah so I actually do
this all the time and it's a good idea from
Plouffe to do it here. When you have just
something that you soldered, you don't want to have the
connection, take all the strains. So if you just have a bunch of
hot glue on there, it's good. So yeah, it doesn't matter
which cable goes to which one. You just have to make
sure that on both sides, you do the same one. So we're
going black, red, green, white. And we could do
any permutation of those. Doesn't matter, just make sure
it's the same on both sides or (explosion gesture) Okay so basically touch
these two together. It makes it be continuity tester, easy. I have no clue which pins
do which thing, but yeah. So ground is the whole
housing to this pin. Yep. And then... Alright yeah. We're just plugging it in. I need much finer tips to get in there. This seems like a fire hazard. - So then you hold that part. All right. And we should just be
able to plug your phone or your keyboard or whatever in. That's okay. I've done it before. Don't touch. Aye look at
that. Charging. It works. So normally what you can
do at this point too, is you can like plug it
into a laptop or something or your computer to make sure
data transfer works as well. But I think we're good. I'm not concerned about that. Alex has got all his wires going. The only concern I have right now is the exposed wires there so
we're gonna glue everything together before we heat shrink
and put all the housing on. - Oh, that'll do. Yeah. I'm quite happy with
my little cable here, Colton. We don't sell cables
like this on ltcstar.com, but we do sell cable
ties and water bottles. Actually, you should get a water bottle - So okay, so what we forgot to do is we forgot to show you
how to tech flex stuff, and we also forgot to
show you how to coil stuff if you want to coil. So what this is for is
it's mostly aesthetic, but it also makes the
cable a little thicker. - Oh. So the tech flex is just like
protection for your para cord? - Yeah it's like a protection, And some people like the kind
of like sheen that it gives. - Oh okay. like I've got a few different kinds. This one's just black, I think. But then there's also a clear guy here. And then this is shimmer
or maybe this is the black and this is the shimmer. Yeah, this is the shimmer
sleeving. Yeah right. Too bad. You know you, you
don't want this on there, right? - No. - Okay, good. You basically just hold it
with one thumb and then start wrapping it around like that. - All right. Easy. - Yeah. - Cool. Now we just give
her with the heat gun? - Yeah. one thing to note
before you start, be careful. If you put too much heat, you can like damage
the cable first of all, but you can also just damage
the exterior of the para cord. Or if you're using tech flex, it melts a lot easier
than this stuff does. And so you want to always
use the lowest heat on your heat gun when doing this, cause it's really easy on high
heat to just like basically destroy your cable or
make it look really bad by giving this big dark black spot on it. - Okay. So I was about
to give her a 915 degree. - I would not do that. - Don't do that. - I would not do that. Also. This is an aluminum rod. It's gonna get really hot, really fast. - So at this point, normally what you do is you
would keep this like it is, and then you would let
it sit for a few hours, ideally, even overnight. And then you can remove the
tape and the coil should basically retain its form. - Okay, cool. - So we've got a few quails already made. And so once you're done, you end up with something
kind of like this. Yeah. It doesn't spring. It just adds a little
character to your cable. Some people like to have the
cable come out like an inch and then have a coil go across
most of the keyboard and then the cable comes out.
Yeah, it looks pretty, but that's about it. - I dig it. Yeah. So now that Alex has finished
making his nice USB cable, Anthony is going to try his
hand at making a PCA connector an extension for your power supply. Have you done this before Anthony? - No. - Perfect. I haven't either.
Unlike the USB cables, which I've made plenty of, I haven't done any extensions for cables. I've been meaning to get into it. And so this is a good opportunity
for both of us to learn. - All right. So we've got 18 gauge wire, which should handle most graphics
cards, pretty comfortably. These are okay. Male
and female connectors. Pretty nice just to have them. Yeah. We've got these terminals. These are the actual ends. These are basically what actually plugs into your graphics card. It's not this that plugs in
it's this and this is connected directly to the wire inside this. - Thankfully, we've got
some crimpy boys here. So satisfying. - I've done the ethernet runs
before lots of ethernet runs. And let me tell you those, the crimpers that don't have
this ratcheting mechanism do not buy them. They need the ratchet. So I can't help but noticing
that our wire is all black and that's gonna be
difficult to distinguish between the different wires. But the great thing about
extension is that as long as your pins are all lined up properly, you don't have to worry
about the pin out diagram for each power supply. They
just go straight through. They're already set up properly. So you're just extending them. The bad thing about extensions though, is that they obviously take
up more room in your case because there is more actual
cable. So chances are low. We're going to fry something. Right. But for this, we don't
need to solder anything. So for some of you, this is
probably going to be easier. Are we going from more of an
LTT orange for our para card this time around? So yeah, it should look a little bit better on the inside of your case
if my estimation is correct. I like orange. So along with the crimpy boys here, we have wire cutters or
side cutters actually. This here pin extraction tool. If we make a mistake, with sliding those pins
into these here connectors, we also have where's the
wire. Yeah, there it is. Wire strippers And most importantly, we have a lighter. And the reason for that is heat shrink, which I'm sure we've
already gone over, right? - [Plouffe] Yeah. - So yeah, to start we'll
measure out our cable and sleeving for each terminal, we're just doing an 8 pin connector, so we need eight wires. Always make sure to buy extra materials just in case you need them. And we could easily screw up
a wire or a terminal or even one of our connectors. So
we bought extras of each. Also make sure to give yourself some slack for cable management. So
measure the general path you think you'll be taking
along the back of your case, and then maybe add an inch on top of that. We're going to just push
ours straight against our measuring tool. Like so, and give it a snip with the side cutters at the desired length. then you do the same for
your sleeping material. All right. There's eight,
mostly equal lengths. So the next step is stripping
the cables and attaching our terminals. You want to expose about
three millimeters on each end. So measure and strip. If you
want to be extra careful, you can mark with a
knife or something sharp while you've got your ruler out. When you're choosing a wire stripper, make sure that the little
content's in here that lineup to different wire sizes actually
match up with your wire. In this case, we've got from
32 gauge up to 20 gauge, but we need 18 gauge. This is just gonna like
destroy somebody's cable. These are pretty awesome. They don't always work
depending on your cable. I know I've tried mine with
speaker wire and the shielding on that is just way too thick,
but on something like this, if you just feed in a
couple of millimeters and you give it a little... Check that out. - Oh, that's awesome. Yeah. It's Super nice. Guess what? They connect. - [] Oh my God. - Un...limited...power! - So wait. We're just
gonna have a single piece of cable para cord with
all of these in it? - [Plouffe] Uh, no. So you'll be sleeving each individual wire. - Okay. - So that you have individual
strands on your extension. Okay. - So yeah. Push that
through, strip it off. Well, you might want to
measure and then cut to length. - Screw measuring. Okay. So how much of the Para
cord should be covering this? - [Plouffe] It shouldn't
be covering the terminal. It should be covering up until basically where the terminal meets the wire. - Okay. So right about there? - [Plouffe] Yeah. - So if I measure with another terminal... then that should theoretically. - [Plouffe] not if the ends are frayed, we've got a lighter on hand
so you can melt them up, but it looks too..eh it looks Okay. - Well when it looks all
right, the other end looks... Well I mean, it looks
kind of like the black that you'd normally get
on the end of these. See if it goes in. Nice. It clicked in. - All right. Let's try the other end. Yeah. Now from here, we need to make sure that we're getting into
the correct orientation. So actually probably what we could do getting together like that. - All right. That's our extension. We're done. We're done. (Laughter) - [Plouffe] One down seven to go. - oh God. (Cheering) - As it turns out, what
we were doing before, we assumed that female would go to female and we didn't really think
to question that and like, male will go to male, but
you know, on second thought, I'm like, is there normally like a, like a little thing sticking
out of the male end of a PCI express connector. And
like, I guess it makes sense. Cause it's got to go so
far into this one. Right? Nothing really clicked. So
when I said that I didn't, I've never done this before.
I haven't done this before. And we managed to get this male end in. Specifically, because
I managed to match that so badly with crimping. So crimp it once only on the four wings. So it should look very much like that. flat on the back, chunky in the front. I got there in the end, but we had Tynan come in and you know, kind of redo everything because I have other things to do today. TLDR, this which this plugs into is in fact male. So it's like a sea horse, I guess. I don't know. (laughter) Anyway, it's reversed from what
you'd think it is also for those of you playing along at home, we discovered that if this
little groove on the top of the male end here specifically the female doesn't have
quite that same key. If that is pinched in any way, you're going to have a bad time. It's not going to lock into place. You might actually like
straight up, not go in. So yeah, just pinch here. - [Plouffe] It's beautiful, Anthony. So your first one might look like this. Actually, You know what If we
had multiple different colors, we could just have this
be a rainbow. You could, you could mismatch the
lengths on purpose in order to make yourself a nice aesthetic. I mean, this just looks like, I
don't know a giant Cheeto. - Are you ready to test it Anthony? - Am I ready to test it? hell yeah. Oh man. You know what would be
a good way to test it? If we have a multi meter? - [Together] Yay. 1... (Laughter) 2... 3... - [Alex] 4! - Okay. - [Alex] 6! 7... - [Plouffe] One more. Come on. 8 ! - We've got a old...I
think it was a six 80. - Okay. Good luck everybody. Oh, I got a flashing cursor. Oh oh. now blank screen. (Gasp) - No, it works. Yes! - But there's no keyboard
detected. Oh, what a mess. I'm not happy with it. I wish
I could go back and redo it. But this is what we're living with now. These connectors are very finicky. they're simple enough to understand they're simple enough to use, but if you don't have a
little bit of practice getting them just right, you're going to end up
wasting a lot of wire and other materials. Thankfully those materials
are not very expensive. And if you can get them for, you know, relatively cheap in bulk
and presumably from the same supplier, so you don't have to
pay multiple shipping costs, but it's fun and gratifying
to sit down and actually make these cables look the way they
do and you can make them look however you want. And
I think that's great. You know, just learning
how to do something new. - The drop PC38X gaming headset was built in collaboration
with Sennheiser. It features an open back design
based on the respected PC37X but with some added enhancements. The re tuned drivers
deliver higher fidelity and better frequency response. The rated impedance is now
28 ohms for use with gaming controllers or other lower power devices. And the new knit mesh headband
means less heat retention and better comfort. It includes two sets of
cables for either your PC or your console and
two different ear pads, knit mesh or velour. Buy yours today and get $20
off a pair with code "DROPTHIS" at the link down below. - Do you make your own cables at home? or have you been thinking
of getting into it? Let us know in the comments
below and make sure to check out our video on building
a mechanical keyboard. That was a lot of fun too.