- I'm going to attempt to sit underwater for 24 hours straight because "Counting To
100,000" wasn't hard enough. So we put a box underwater and we filled said box with air. And my goal is to sit inside said box which is underwater for 24 hours. AKA spend 24 hours straight underwater. As you can see, it is currently 11:26. I'm gonna spend 24 hours under this. So when I come out from under this box, it should be 11:26 tomorrow. And this box is underwater which means I would've
spent 24 hours underwater. This is for all you Jake Paulers. Do not try this at home. - Good luck. Chris. - Hello, see you in 24 hours. - All right, guys. Sorry if the audio is really
bad, but I'm under the bucket. The bucket is underwater, as you can see. I am completely submerged
underwater right now. I'm gonna spend 24 hours
inside of this bucket, which means I've spent
24 hours underwater. Now, normally this wouldn't be safe, but I have this tube right here, and this tube is going to be
constantly feeding me oxygen. So that's why I won't suffocate because this tube right here
is gonna be pumping oxygen into here the entire time. - Hey, partner. - What brings you in here? - Ah, just the oxygen. - Hey, don't be wasting my oxygen. - Oh, sorry.
- They're precious. - I won't breathe any more of your air. Just checking on you. - There's not much air in the world. Wasting my oxygen. Bye, Chris. See you later. I think we're approximately
two minutes into this challenge and I'm gonna be honest, I can't believe I'm
about to spend 24 hours in a freaking cube underwater. This is probably the stupidest
thing I've ever done. Here's "Counting To 100,000," here's "Watching 'It's
Everyday Bro' for 10 Hours," here's "Spending 24 Hours Underwater." - How is it in here? - Boring. Has it been like 20 minutes? - Um, two. - I need my phone or... - We're working on it. - Aw, goodbye, Chris. Now all alone. All alone in a little box under the water. Oh, here comes Chris back. Oh, there you go. Oh, God. You seem to be taking your water, my lord. Made it.
- All right, go. There's too much man in one boat. - We're sinking! - So they just moved a raft on the top and it feels really good. So, Chris, put the raft
back over top of me so I can not burn alive. - Jimmy's phone and a hat. - All right, guys. I
just got a care package. The care package included my phone. Before, I was using my friend's phone. And then I got my hat. I've been needing hat. All right, I'm gonna put you guys down. There's nowhere to set you guys, so... - We're about out a one hour check in. I will go ahead, check how he's doing. - All right, so I think
we've officially crossed the one hour mark. I've been in this box
underwater for one full hour. .23 more to go. So I just sent them a text saying, "I want some speakers in here. I want a place to set my phone. I basically want a movie theater in here. and I also want a rag to dry my hair," so they're gonna go by that. - So while Jimmy is
underwater for 24 hours, me and Chandler here are
going to go get him some stuff to make him his own personal home movie theater underground. Cool, thank you. - Have a good one, man.
- Appreciate it. - So running into a little bit
of an issue, as you can hear. See how this thing isn't
as loud as it used to be? It's because, for some reason,
it's not pumping as much air, so I don't know what's going on. Hopefully, whatever's going on,
they're fixing it right now. But, for whatever reason, I'm not getting air like I used to, which is not a good thing, 'cause if they don't fix this
soon, bad things can happen. Why'd it stop working? - The air compressor overheated. - So this was providing
Jimmy with the air, but it failed on us, so he's got an emergency system right now but we've gotta take it back. Get another one. Well, that doesn't mean there's a hole. That just means the hole...
- Hello, Mr. Jimmy. - How close are you? - We just checked out and we're leaving now to come save you. - You wanna buy me some food? - Yeah, we'll get you some
food. What do you want? What if we get you some
sushi? Like a big platter? - Yeah, give me sushi. - Okay.
- All right, bye. - All right, so y'all are
rushing back to save Jimmy, we're going to get sushi. - I don't even think
it's been three hours. One thing I will say is it is pretty calm
and peaceful down here, just, you know, being all alone. Why did I do this? And it's like, you realize, like, it's not too late to turn back, like, if I don't turn back now, I'm never gonna be able to turn back 'cause I have invested too much time. And that's what keeps
going through my mind, I'm like, "Should I stop now? Do I really want to spend
another 22 hours in this pool, Logan Pool, Jake Pool, any other pools?" I hope this gets a lot of views. - We need like four California rolls. Package is secure. We
got the sushi for Jimmy. Now we're gonna go see
if he's still alive. - Hello, guys. Are you excited? So it came out today... - So my phone is dead, so I'm putting it in a plastic bag and they're gonna charge it for me. Phone in plastic bag, go wrap it up, and hand it to... It's, I don't know who
that is. Who's that? - Say, is there a Jimmy... Food for a Jimmy? - Under. - You do it. I don't get here. There you go, it's for a Jimmy. Okay. - Oh, thanks for the sushi. Hi, Jake. I can't believe they just
brought me sushi in here. - Hey.
- That's good. - Yeah, it doesn't look like too much, I don't know if I could share. - Oh, we gotta stake up
the entire place so fast. - Let's see what sushi they
got. Hey, you want to take this? I don't want it. Oh, dude. This sushi, that smelled... Dude, look at this. Dude, this sushi looks really good. I don't care what you say, sushi is the best food ever made. Oh, that's a Jake. Can I help you, sir? I'm getting assaulted. My sushi, go away. - Hey.
- Oh, my God. I like breathing and sushi. - Can I help you? - Hey, camera. You've got low battery. Well, not low but mildly low. - Hey, don't talk to
the viewers like that. - Why don't you get your battery gains up? - What a jerk. He came here just to insult you guys. What's this? Oh, hey. - They are command strips so
you can put your phone up. ♪ And I'm coming with the crew
♪ ♪ This is Team 10, bitch ♪ ♪ Who the hell are flippin' you ♪ ♪ And you know I kick them out ♪ ♪ It's everyday, bro ♪ ♪ It's everyday, bro ♪ ♪ I said it's everyday, bro ♪ - Is Jimmy dead yet? - I will check. - Well, we saw bubbles, so
Chris thought you were dead. - Hey, guys. It's 4:20, just thought we'd let you know. - All right. Bye, Jim. Bye, Tyler. I'm all alone again. Oh, let me pump some air. Dude, this air's getting pretty . - Is he dead? - Yeah. - Oh, welcome. Welcome back. - Hello. It's almost
time for me to go home. - And I still have a long
time, like 20 hours left. - Ah, you'll be all right. - And my hands are so soggy. - Oh, my God. Holy crap. You really do moisturize. - I don't know how well
you guys are gonna be able to see this but... You can't really see it but, dude, my hands are all shriveled up, like, I don't know if you can tell but that's not normally what
my hands look like, dude. They look so shriveled up right now. Hey, guys. I'm having... I'm having lots of fun. Can't you tell how much fun I'm having? Dude, the pads on my
fingers are so like... They feel so weird that,
like, it almost hurts to snap. That feels so weird. Ugh, my nails feel like
they're just gonna fall off. Oh, boy. I need some air. I think the last time I
did a 24-hour challenge was when I spun a fidget spinner. Hey, there's Garrett. - What's up, dude? - I'm literally just talking to them. It was kind of good timing. Last time I did a 24-hour challenge was when I did the fidget
spinner for 24 hours. - Oh, yeah? - So what'd you wanna say to them? - I just wanted to say I hope Jimmy stays alive and just die- - Yeah, I need some better oxygen. Dude, my hands kinda shriveled all up.
- Oh, my gosh. - I can't feel my pads. - All right, buddy. Take care.
- You're stealing my oxygen. - Ooh. - Dude, when there's two people in here, you run outta oxygen quick. So, fun story. I have an iPhone 6 and apparently, earlier, I got water on it and now it doesn't work anymore. So my phone is dead, so I'm
putting it in a plastic bag. I think there's like 18
hours left in this challenge and I don't have a phone anymore, 'cause I got water on it and it wasn't waterproof. Yeah, this is gonna suck. If you look right there,
you'll see my friends playing, I think they're playing volleyball. I'm glad at least someone's
enjoying this challenge. I'm going to count to 1,000 for fun. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12... Okay, I change my mind. Counting with limited
oxygen is not a good idea. I'm actually getting a little lightheaded. I just realized it's
been a really long time since I've straightened out my legs. All right, let's do that. Dude, that feels so good. My knees have been bent
for a really long time. This actually feels... Oh, that feels so good. All right, note to self, let's bend our legs more or
straighten our legs more. - Hey. Shout out to Garrett and Katie for giving me a phone and styrofoam. They actually went to the
store and bought me a new phone because I fried my old phone in the water. They gave me styrofoam to put it on. - you tried to flew into the air. Yeah, I remember how I flew
with millions of leaf blowers. - You gotta do it.
- Okay. I did wear a long-sleeved
shirt just for... - So, little update, it's actually starting to get
a little freezing in here. I didn't really think of this, but hopefully I don't get like a cold or . I don't know, dude. That's
getting kind of cold. It's 8:05 PM, which is around the time where it starts to get dark. Actually, you can see that there's not as much light in here. Oh, God. I completely forgot. It's gonna be freaking
freezing out tonight. Good thing I'm wearing a wetsuit. - All right, we're on the
way to get the new GoPro. - So we're getting a new GoPro and a mophie case charger for Jimmy so he can charge his
phone while underwater. All right, so we're
walking in the Best Buy. Rollin' up, squad. - Here you go. Thank you. You have a good one.
- You too. - Give me my bag.
- No, my bag. So we got the new GoPro, the HERO5 Black, and we got a mophie case for Jimmy, and we're gonna be on
the way back now so... ♪ Please, please don't talk
about me when I'm gone ♪ - Dude, what time is it?
It's only 11:00, right? - Yep. - Oh, God. - You're halfway there. - Hey, you're stealing my oxygen. Get out. It's 11:00, which means
I'm only halfway down. ♪ Halfway ♪ Yeah. I hate to disappoint you guys but I randomly started
feeling extremely sick while sitting underwater
and I had to come out, like I just had this
strong urge to throw up. I think it's because the
water was constantly moving. I was just getting really
seasick under there. Just after a while, it
just really got to me and I just really
couldn't take it anymore. I wanted to power through,
but I just couldn't. My leg is literally shaking. Stop shaking. You're annoying me. It was a horrible idea. I would really not recommend
any of you guys do this. I have a massive, freaking headache. My head hurts. It's literally throbbing. Tyler, can I go home? I feel terrible. That was a horrible idea for my health. Don't try this. Whatever I just did, don't do it. It's not smart.
- For real, don't. - I could have caught
ligma, for all I know. I hope you guys enjoyed that video. I just wanted to let you guys know that me and Chris have been thinking of some really funny shirt designs and been putting them on shopmrbeast.com, which will be linked in the description. That sounds way too much like Logan Paul. The URL is in the thing below the video? Basically, we have a bunch
of really funny shirts that I think you guys should go check out. This one's a "Battle Royale with Cheese," like, come on, you're a little
kid that loves Fortnite, I know you want that. But look at this one. You're probably thinking
it's a Gucci shirt, but it's not. It's Beast, which is obviously the most valuable brand in all of America. And my personal favorite
is "Life is Unbearable" because, you know, there's a bear, and it's a pun, and I like puns. Yeah, actually, "Donate to My Stream" is actually really funny. This one is hilarious. Go buy it. Shopmrbeast.com has all the
funniest shirts on the internet. Go check it out and just buy some. I promise you, you will
find these shirts hilarious. And if you wear them, people
will probably just walk up and talk to you and be
like, "Yo, funny shirt." And you'll be like, "Yeah,
man. Freaking hysterical."