- Ooh, whoa. Now I won't say. That Chase is a gamer nerd
who lives in his mother's basement. Cause that's a,
a mean hurtful stereotype, but he's not really leaving
me a lot of choices. I mean, look at him. This is your
parent's house Chase. - Yeah it is. I couldn't
move out because of COVID. So, you know, I'm stuck in
here for a little bit longer. - Yeah, all I hear is. (unintelligible mocking) - I'm not trying to pay rent. (upbeat music) - I got to say, as far
as basement man caves go, it's looking pretty good.
We got the mini fridge. We got the TV with the PlayStation 4. I'm lovin' the decor
in here. And of course, Chase already has an
absolutely sick gaming setup, which sort of raises the question. What are we going to do
to transform this space? - We are going to be
upgrading the computer. It's already pretty good, but you know, it can always be better. We got some even better
hardware than I currently have, and we're going to be putting
in some new furniture and rearranging it. So it's going
to be kind of a big change, but it's not just the computer. It's a lot of other little things as well. - Let's check out the setup here. So you're rocking the 2080 Super. - Wow. You've got like
Dominator Platinum Memory. What the hell are we even
upgrading about this thing? - I don't know how to describe
it. Every once in a while, the graphics driver does
like to crash. In fact, it happened last night, but I have a feeling that it
had more to do with Cold War being a little jank sometimes
than the computer itself. - Now something you guys might
not know about Chase is that while here at Linus Tech Tips, we're, we're gamers. Chase is a GAMER. Unless your name is David
or Edzel or Luke, he's probably gonna make you look
stupid in pretty much any game. So I have two agendas here. One is to help him reach
his peak gamer potential. And number two is to
maybe find some way to sabotage him a little bit
for the next time we play. How's he going to bungie that? - That's my only mouse at the
moment. So don't break it. (Linus) - That's okay, You
got lots of controllers. Rocking the PlayStation 2, rocking the other more different
PlayStation 2. You lied, you do have another mouse.
This is how we sabotage him. Now let's have a look at what
we're going to be doing in terms of upgrades. Okay. Some things are
going to be legit upgrades. This is Intel Extreme Tech Upgrade, which is obviously
brought to you by Intel. And we're going to be
going full bore with a Core i9 11900K processor. So we're going one of those and RTX 3080. This is going to be among
the fastest gaming machines. Money can buy, but we're also doing some
stuff that's more tailored to Chase's personal preference like this Sony Trinitron 20 inch CRT TV. (Chase) Yeah, 20 inch - 20 inches. Wow. That's like some big donger CRT, at least, you know, from the side. - We're going to be upgrading
some of the furniture. I don't have a TV stand. So we're going to be changing
out the coffee table for this TV. Stand here. (Linus) I see some rugs. - Yeah, we're going to get some rugs. Unfortunately, I don't have
one in the room at the moment. The monitor as well.
That's like a 27 inch. I think it's like 200 something hertz. So that's a bit of an upgrade. It's going to be really nice. We're putting in some
nanoleaf light bulbs, So that'll be sick. And we're
doing a bit of a retro mod on the PS2, so we're going to
be putting a hard drive in it and then you can use this
memory card to rip your games, to write to the hard drive
and play them off of that. So no more, no more of a need for CDs. - That is sick. For those of you who
are new to the series, Intel is providing 5,000
US dollar budgets for tech make-overs for my staff, and Chase, he's getting a lot of
bang for the buck here. And we haven't even
talked about the desk yet. Man we're going to have to haul
a ton of stuff out of there. Better get started. (Chase) I had considered going with a automatic adjusting
desk, but they were just hella expensive, so I
didn't want to spend that. - If it doesn't give more FPS, it's not making its way into this setup. I'll set up to build here
then. And what are we doing? I noticed we have a new case, but you mentioned reusing that one. - The plan right now is we're
going to take most of the guts out of this computer.
Put them in the new case, take all the new parts and
put them back in this case, we're going to leave in the
storage and the AIO cause it fits really nicely. I don't
want to touch it at the moment. - So basically you hate
me and you want me to have to build two computers
instead of just one. - It's two for the price of one. So, you know, it's pretty good. - At least I don't have
to paint the wall. Okay. - You just need the computer, right? So... - I guess, yeah. (Crashing) Oh God. What just...? - I didn't screw in the side panel. - I see that. Wow. Did dbrand just send you a
bunch of sticker bomb, wrap? (Chase) Yeah. I had to cut it myself. (Linus) Yeah, I see that. (Chase) If you don't look too
closely, it looks really good. (Linus) Yeah... About that. Do you have the chocolate power
supply from Tech Showdown? (Chase) I have a receipt. - You got a receipt, huh? (Chase) Yeah, or I had. - "Had". - The plan for the second computer is I'm probably going to put unwrite on it. And I'm going to run some
game servers and possibly a Windows VM and figure out
something else to do with it. - Not your fault. You already
had a decent computer. - I'm not going to water cool it, I feel like I would not maintain
it very well knowing me. - I mean, your machine's in far better
condition than David's was. (Chase) Thankfully my dogs are Maltese, so they don't really shed that much. I had to get a USB 3.0 header
adapter because the cable that comes with the case
doesn't fit with the sleds for the SSD there. - It's really tight. I can't get it off. Oh, everything is totally under control. Your computer will be all in
one piece when we're done. - Well we got two of them. So
as long as one of them works, we're good. - There we go. Hey, board's coming out. Does the dope special edition
RAM stay on this board? (Chase) No. we got an extra
RAM and I definitely have a receipt for that. (Linus) Yeah I was going to say, this looks it's from the office too. Do you have any specific
rationale behind the choices here? Like 11900K. That's pretty obvious. You just wanted more FPS, but what about like the TUF
Z590 motherboard for example? - I didn't feel like spending
any more money than what the TUF was worth, even as
part of the upgrade. So that's why I went with
that one and the 3080, because it's the 3080, and
I didn't want to buy a 3090. - Okay. Fair enough. And I guess as far as FTW3 Ultra goes, it was the one we could get. (Chase) It was the one we could get, - That's typically the story with these Intel extreme tech upgrades. Thanks EVG. Because at MSRP, you know, these will fit in a $5,000 upgrade. At scalper prices, his
is the $5,000 upgrade. Chase may not care about them, but a couple of really great
features from my point of view are the inclusion of 2.5 gig ethernet. That's going to be more
relevant in the future, especially if he's going
to be running an Unraid NAS separately in the house. And he wants to have really
quick access to those files. And of course, support for
PCI express, gen four storage. Today, your storage doesn't
make a huge difference to the gaming experience, but give it a little bit of time with Microsoft's direct storage and all of a sudden the GPU
could need high speed access to your storage drive. And
that's going to enable that. Now I've got to scavenge the
m.2 SSD from the old board. I actually don't know what he's running, so we'll see if it's gen four or not. - Wish I had a drill, but this is fine. - We got the old SSD out. The good news is 660P, one terabyte. Good drive, solid drive. The bad news is it's not
PCI express gen four. So what we're going to do is
we're going to install it in one of the two PCI
express gen three slots. And we will leave this open for a future gen four upgrade. How do you have so many standoffs and none of them are the right one? - I don't know. It could
have been for this cooler, but I'm not sure. - No, I don't think so. - I clearly gave someone
the wrong hardware, but it must've worked out
cause they never contacted me. - This is a little awkward Chase. I know that you spent probably
a lot of money on this Special Edition Dominator Platinum, and you had intended to keep
using it in the gaming rig. This Vengeance LPX is
substantially faster. This is 3,600 CL14. (Chase) Throw that in there then. - You also don't need more
than 16 gigs of RAM in your gaming rig. And this is like a 32 gig kit. So that goes
into the server. I think. (Chase) No problem. - Dominator Platinum
home server with unraid. - I got a good deal on it. I didn't actually spend
that much on the RAM. - Well, it's not that fast. It's just fancy looking. So it's fine. Yeah. You got all flash. You got no dash, but now you've got dash too. That moment when you buy the
fanciest most specialist RAM, and then you swap it out for
some basic Vengeance LPX. - I'm just installing the
cable management tray. I think it's a little short,
so might have to drill holes. Might not. We'll see. - Well, you might not have
any mounting hardware, but at least we can kind of
jam the motherboard in here. Just gotta, just gotta kind
of oop, finangle it a little, don't worry, Chase it'll be fine. He looks like the nervous
expectant father while his wife's delivering her baby. - I know for a fact, you're going to have a hard
time plugging in the power, cable that's for the CPU specifically. - I promise you. I will
have that in, in 30 seconds. Okay. Timer go. There's half. There's the other half. (Chase) I'm glad you're building
the computer and I'm not. - I did cheat a little bit. The motherboard's not really screwed in, so there's some wiggle room. Man, so far, this is the easiest
extreme tech upgrade yet. - All right, we did it. It's good enough. It's really
just to hold some cables, so it's a little jank, but
I don't care that much. So one of the things that we're
doing to the PlayStation 2 I have is we're going
to install a hard drive. Now the problem is the new
hard drives that are SATA don't connect to the old network
adapter that you can get. So we had to get a third
little mini board and we got to install it to this,
install that to the PS2, plug in the memory card
and then we're good to go. - I'm just waiting for logistics to bring me the mounting hardware
that I need for the CPU. and then I am good to
throw the graphics card in. Oh actually, and one other thing, Chase is going for a live
gamer duo capture card, which will presumably
allow... Chase, do you stream? (Chase) I do stream a bit. (Linus) This has two HDMI inputs, which allows you to have your
camera as well as an external device, such as a game
console plugged in, so Nintendo Switch goes in here,
camera goes in here and boom. The PC can do all the streaming. I mean, he talked about doing a dual
PC streaming setup or something like that, but they can be
a bit of a pain in the butt. Nice capture card. Does up to 240 FPS 1080p. Input, one supports 4k, and
the other one does not at all and then it does pass through
4k 60 if you really to. - HDMI one is going to be, yeah, any of the retro game
consoles or like the PS4. And then the second one will
just be my camera input. I'm currently using a webcam. If you can see over there on
the desk and I'm going to be upgrading to a camera. - What's your Twitch username then? - toomuchcontra, no spaces, no caps. - Can you really ever
have too much contra? - I finally got the cover off. I had a couple more screws
that were really small, but after that it popped right off. Not the ones on the back, those are actually for screwing
it into the PlayStation 2, but now I got to remove this
little daughterboard that they have, I guess that's
what you would call it. So that'll take a couple more screws and hopefully it pops right off. - Oh, okay. Oh, that's super cool. Not as cool as this 3080
I'm about to install though. (Chase) It's pretty powerful. - Good flex. (Chase) You just, unplug
them all just like that, cause we don't need it anymore. This one board will take over
both functions because it uses the power. And then I
guess that's for the data. So it's a pretty cool mod. I just realized after taking this one out, this board actually has a ribbon for us, so I have to take the ribbon
out of the main board. So we're going to do that in a moment. Seems fine. That looks like that's how you install it, so we're going to go with that. I don't think I'm supposed
to slide it into place. - So they pop out and then
you push them into lock. - Oh, okay. - Yep. No problem. So this needs to come
off. This is the only one? - No, no, it's good. That's
what we want to keep that. - Oh, okay. This one stays. Yeah. That's a free tech tip. All right. Let's get this graphics card... (gasps) I think it'll be okay though. Because these hard drive
cages shouldn't interfere. There we go. All right. Chase! (Chase) Yup? - How married to this case are you? I'm a little concerned about cooling. This is a solid front panel
case. This is an RTX 3080. I don't know if it's going
to be up to the task. (Chase) If it's not, it's not. - Okay we'll find out soon enough. - I do really like the case. I had a really hope that we
can use the computer in there, but if it's too powerful, too much heat, we'll have to swap it, but you know, that's a risk I'm willing
to take at the moment. The board has been swapped,
I'm just putting the metal plate back on. I'm going to put in the rest
of the screws and we should be good to go. - Now we can throw this puppy on here. Thermal paste is already on and I have confirmed these are correct. Which means we're pretty much done. It's on there pretty good. I think this rig might
actually be ready to boot up. - The network adapters installed and the hard drive is inside, so all we got to do is plug in
this memory card and boot it up and we should find out if
it's going to work or not. - Aw that is sweet. PC gaming first. All right, let's see if it fires up. Look at that RGB, boys. Ridiculous. Hey, there it is. Nice. Okay, we've got the M.2, we've got the two SATA SSDs, we've got the hard drive, we've got our 16 gigs of Ram. Everything looks like it is
behaving as we would expect. - Let's try the PS2 next. It's actually good that you
plugged in the computer, because we do need to power
the retro tank actually. - Ayyy - Free MCBoot there we go. - Free MCBoot. - We gotta get a game
to install it. Right? - Sure. - All right. Disney
Extreme Skate Adventure. Well, that's a top priority. Why don't we just, (Chase) That is 100% a top priority. (Linus) Why don't we put this one on? - I heard that transferring
hard drive games can actually take a while if you
do it directly on the PS2, so we could be, we could
just let it sit for a while. - So can you just pop the
hard drive, throw it in the computer, transfer
everything and then put it back in there? - Yeah, you can totally do that. I think that's what most people do. (Linus) Time left 388,140 hours.
I mean, what even is that? (Chase) It's just an estimation,
don't worry about it. - 44 years. So Chase, by
the time you're my age, it might have ripped. (Chase) Nice. - Ow. I stabbed my finger. May I ask why you provided
me with all of these Pure Wings 2 120mm fans? (Chase) Can you put them in the top? - I can. (Chase) Yes. - All right, I think I'm only going to be able to put two in the top, but that's already going to be
five fans in a Meshify case. I don't know how effective this
top exhaust is going to be. It's right next to an intake. And I'm going to move these 140s down. I think this plastic
piece right here just, yeah there we go, pops out. Since this machine is
going to be running unraid, it's obviously going to
have some hard drives in it. We're going to want to make
sure they get some cooling. So we're just going to take
this fan and give it a little one of those. - I just need to make a little
bit more room for myself over here so I can get the desk
upright and take it apart a little bit before we haul it out of here. - Oookay. - Perfect, all right. - Cool. - And I will disassemble some of it. So - Yeah do you remember when
IKEA furniture was like. This is a sick rig in
its own rights. Sheesh. Remind me to be your
little brother growing up. Cause like you're hand me downs man. The couch goes here
now. It's no less ugly. At least it's the first thing you see when you walk in the room. - We lost one of the feet. - Whoops. Here. Hold on, let me, whoa no no wait. - Whoa, whoa. - Hold on. Hold on. Let me. - I can't game if I lose my finger. - Yeah. Don't worry I got you fam. Wait, you can't game if
you lose your fingers. - Oh [Bleep]. - Oh, here, here we go. Down it comes. Okay. - Yeah. It has to come up a bit, but - I was going to say it's
a little Linus sized. (Chase) Yeah it can go higher. Perfect. You know, you got the TV, Got your main desk, got the other desk. - Yeah, it's frickin' awesome. I mean, you might even
be able to stream and like game on your PlayStation
or whatever on the main TV. - Just tilt this bit, yeah. - Wait, why do all the
consoles live over here? How do these go cconnect to the thing? - Well actually the switch, might move. - You mean you might
switch up its location? You know, you don't have
to laugh at my jokes. - To give you credit. I didn't laugh at any
of the others so far. (laughter) - Not sure if supposed to
make me feel better or? - Look at that. - The system works. - We're a little high. - Yeah? A little high? - Yeah. Actually. I think that one's good. - Which one? - The one that you're doing right now. - Yeah. Okay. Ahh! This is going to be a nightmare to level. - Right now, I'm installing
the back plates on the monitors because we have like a two,
a dual monitor mounting arm, so I can put that on
the back of the desk and I don't have to use traditional stands. It was a fairly cheap one off Amazon, but it should do the job. We made sure that it was rated for the weight of the monitor. - If we don't have the
little slidey mount things, one option is to just 3d print them. Option number two, we take this mesh cable
management thing down here and we just jam it in there. (Chase) How about we do that? - Ah, hey. (Chase) I'm good, we're good. - Oh crap, the cable
management's on this side. (Chase) Yeah. Well we'll
spin the desk around later. I just realized that because
we put the desk in wrong. We can actually attach the
monitor arm before we flip it around. So we're, we're actually
good to go in this aspect. - I'm on the StairMaster. (Chase) Trying to slide it
on and it doesn't want to go. This kind of juts out just enough. Take this off, put it on
first, put the monitor on, then screw it in. How about you screw in the monitor and I'll hold it in place. Right? - Brought my own LTT store screwdriver. - Not yet coming soon. - Whoa. - Oop. - No, no, we good. Hey, rock on. - Nice. - Cool. This is great. - Okay. We got to get the peels off. I'm sorry, Andy. - Sorry, Andy. How much was this? 50 bucks? - Not even. Which could come
back to haunt me in the future. - Oh yeah, for sure. - At the end of the day
it was under budget, so that's what had to happen. Bring it forward a bit. - Scooch it in. - Yeah, that's fine. - Okay. - I probably, cause you know, I'm gaming, I'll bring it pretty far forward. - Yeah, you got to go all pro. - Why do you think my
back posture is so bad. - Now I'm all self-conscious about it too. Okay, I got the shoulders back, right? You like the thin mouse pad, eh? - Do you know where that one came from? - The office I assume? - Yes. I had an exact same version of that and the middle had started to worn out. I just ended up getting
the exact same one. (Linus) But stolen from work. - No, we were giving them away. - Uh, huh. It's amazing how many things I give away without knowing about it. (Chase) This is sick. The desktop is way cleaner
than it used to be. - Oh yeah, for sure. Where's the power adapter for the Samsung? Wow that's a big power brick. What the [Bleep]? (Chase) Well I got rid
of two, so I'll take it. - This is a hundred watt power adapter. Ah! Oh, that was really close
to falling on my face. (Chase) It did!. - No, no it missed. (Chase) Oh, okay. - If you're going to have the
computer in the corner here, we need this leveled. (Chase) All right. Give me one second. Yo dog. I heard you wanted a
level, so I got you a level. (Linus) Wow. You leveled my level so I
can level while I level. Get on my level Chase. You know what? It's not far off actually. It could be different from
one side of the table to the other. This one has to come up for sure. There's some weight on the
top of it, isn't there? (Chase) Yeah. - That's fine. I can, yeah, there we go. Okay. So is it level now? (Chase) Still looks a little off. (Linus) Okay. Oi! - No, it's all good, I
just knocked something. - Watch your feet. This thing
will break your foot muscles. Oh God! - I think you broke the front. You know what's funny? They warned us about that
when we picked it up, they said the front can
break really easily. - Oh, I'm sorry. (Chase) This thing is super old. I'm really not that concerned. I think that's the only thing
you've broken and it's not as bad as the bed. So I'm happy. (Linus) Hup. (metal clanging) (yelling) (Andy) Linus? Did you just break my bed? - So I almost forgot. We
have to remount a few things. I have the camera we're
going to use as a webcam. And then the thing you place it on. It's the Sony Alpha 5100. It's clean HDMI and I
can use a dummy battery. That's all I need. Something
about it being mirrorless too, but I'm not a camera guy, so. I found it in a closet
somewhere and I was like, hey, I could use this. This cable management
tray is doing wonders. (Linus) I know, right? - Yeah. (Linus) So much stuff jammed in there. It looks so clean under
the desk and you'll never accidentally kick anything
and knock it over or whatever. (Chase) Oh, is that for the monitor? - Yeah. It's a USB 3B, but it's got this giant housing on it. (Chase) Thank you, Samsung. - We leave it like this forever. I win our next gaming match. - Hold up, hold up, hold up. - Everyone's happy. - What's going on? - That's so much better. You can still see a little
bit of jello though. You can still see this
one is a touch faster. - At least one of the
light bulbs is burnt out. So I figured I'd just get some
smart bulbs and replace them and get some RGB going. If
it's not in the computer, it'll be the entire room. We have nano leaf essentials here. A19, or E26 they definitely
fit in those sockets, so no problem. I think it
was 35, each or something. - 35 each?! This is a hundred dollars
in light bulbs per fixture. - You got to go big for the
upgrade. So here we are. - Oh, I think I got it. - Yep. Yep. How many LMG employees does it take to screw in a light bulb? (Linus) You had a gamersnexus
modmat the whole time and we didn't use it for a build surface? - I like to live dangerously. Another piece of equipment
straight from Amazon. Super cheap. Not sure if it's worth it. Basically it has four
inputs and two outputs, but the outputs is duplicated. So the idea is that one always
goes to the CRT and then one always goes to the capture card. So it's just kind of a
handy way to do that. And you can have four consoles. - And we have no idea what the AV quality of this thing is. - I didn't want to spend a lot on it. I just wanted to see if it
would work. Is that working? - Nope. That's just the TV. (Chase) Oh, you know what? I know why. I didn't plug in the audio to the back. It's in the back of the TV. - Got you fam. Okay. Where is it at? Ow. (Chase) Well it's under the desk now. - I see that. - Oh God. - Oh wow. That's really loud. It's kind of like an
inverse color thing you got going on the bottom right corner. How much did I pay for this again? (Chase) Like 150. - The gamer vibe is real now. - This is looking pretty good.
We're getting what, 70 FPS? - Yeah. Considering
that you're running like ray tracing ultimate. - Do we want to turn it off
and see what it goes to? - It's probably worthwhile, yeah. - Yeah, all right. (Linus) There we go. - Yeah, 120. That's pretty
good. Considering this game really just seems to cap
out in like a low hundreds. This is cool. You want to give it a shot? - This is the part where we
gain a greater appreciation for how good Chase is as
we watch me try to do it. Where are you boys at? There's one. - Ooh, no, he was hiding. All
right. That was. Pretty good. - Chase didn't even mention
that part of the plan here is to have space for VR. He's even got the headset
already. This is awesome. This is way better. And we
didn't put the Displates on the wall. These look awesome. - Yeah, not bad. - Not bad at all. We might've gone a little
late on the shoot today. The blueness of the shot is
not just from the RGB lighting. It's also getting kind of dark outside, but I love this setup.
It's gaming essentials, and anything goes. You
love your console gaming. You love your PC gaming.
Your modern gaming. your retro gaming. Chase has pretty much
got you freaking covered. So thank you very much Intel
for sponsoring this $5,000 Extreme Tech Upgrade. Thanks
to you guys for watching. If you're looking for
another video to watch, hey, maybe check out one of our previous Intel Extreme Tech Upgrades. We alluded to that I had
broken furniture on one of the previous ones. Maybe check out Andy's
extreme tech upgrade.