- A month ago we were requested, nay, challenged to build a PC for the incredible Martin
Molin of Wintergatan and Marble Machine fame. And I say "challenged" because Martin's Marble Machine
adventures are not only creative, but incredibly well executed. So, we couldn't build just, any PC, and we're not. We are building him a wooden PC. And for once, we have a plan. Not very good plan, but it's a plan, nonetheless. And thanks to SOLIDWORKS, we are gonna turn our plan into a reality. You can now get "3DEXPERIENCE
SOLIDWORKS for Makers" for just $99 a year. It's actually pretty sweet and you can check it out at the link in the video description. (upbeat music) - It's currently Tuesday. And by Friday, this nice stack of birch plywood needs to become a PC. So how exactly we plan on doing that? Just come on over here. So we've been working on this model for the past like month, on and off. And, here's our PC. It looks a lot like the Marble Machine. The plan overall is pretty decent I think. We've got these gears here
that should be operational. These ones will kinda go the
wrong way compared to the other but whatever, that's fine. And you might be thinking, how the heck are you going to repair this? Well, watch. Bam! Gullwing doors, look at that. All of our components are in here. It's actually quite a compact system, I have to say. Now, given our amount of time, we could spend the next, I don't know, day, two days, getting everything absolutely perfect in the SOLIDWORKS model, instead we're just
going to start building. And when we find something that's wrong, we fix it. I think I wanna cut this gear first. One thing that's new in the shop, is this laser. It's bigger, and slower than our last one. But it will hopefully be just fine. Lasering is kind of more
of an art than a science. And in talking to Colin, his guidance is, if it lights on fire, change the settings. So, (laughs) that's basically what we're gonna do here. I think most of it went through but I'm not confident that all of it did. Let us see. Barely. Once we have our settings dialed in, the idea is to just huck
down a piece of plywood, everything we would want to laser, we just do in one go. It just runs for like two hours, and at the end, all of our components are done. Don't even need to open it up to know that, that one works way better
than the other ones. What ended up solving our problem was, instead of focusing the beam at the top of the board, we focused it kind of halfway down. So like, you know, a laser has a beam that's
kind of like a cone. And so by focusing it so that the cone is in the center of the board, instead of the top, we were able to get all the
way through with no problem.. Look at this, our first proper gear. From here, Sebastian is going to be helping doing all of our lasering. Tynan, on the right there is going to be doing the CNC stuff And I unfortunately, have to do welding. I'm really bad at it. So we're not gonna film too much and when it's all ground down and okay. We'll show you that. If you're not familiar
with these ankle finders. They're frigging awesome. You can pick them up at the Canadian Tire for like 15 bucks. I love to just verify things like, that's 45 degrees. Beautiful. Now we get to do that cut, like, 16 more times. - [Others] Woooo! (upbeat rock music) - We do lots of dumb
sketchy things around here, but this, this is pretty up there. I wanted to take this stool to sit on it while I weld, and, uh, (starts laughing) it's holding up a paper table, with this clamp. - [David] Let's test that. - That's that's great. Okay. Well, yeah, sure. - [David[] Oh, no no no I was kidding. (everybody laughing) (drilling) - That's fine. (chuckles) All right, got a stool. (welding metal) You know what, I said I wasn't gonna show my welds, but screw it. Given that I haven't
touched the welder really since The Pyramid PC, I'm happy with these. They're not too bad. I know if I put this on
a welding Facebook group, they get really mad, but like, just be happy with the welds you got. - As impressive as it would be if our PC played the Marble Machine song, it does not. Unless you count loading up, - A YouTube video? - A YouTube video. Then, then it can play that song, and many many more. - So this is what we're trying to make. - Trying, you say. - Well today we're trying. But, at the end of tomorrow, it will be done. - Okay. - This is our motherboard tray right here. Everything is built off of that. - Isn't that gorgeous? - It is. - I love it. I like our new laser cutter. Step one is to install
our threaded inserts into our motherboard tray. These are pretty cool. They've got threading on the outside, which is course for wood. And then they've got
threading on the inside, which will be perfect for our standard PC motherboard standoffs. Let's just hope that um, we don't split anything as we're going in here. (hammering) X570-Creator, from ASUS. This thing's got basically
everything you could want. 128 gig RAM support, up to 4 Gen4 M.2 SSDs, display port injection, for the built-in Thunderbolt 4. That's super cool cause it means that whatever
kind of hub you run, over any distance, you can just have a
full resolution monitor that's driven by your discreet GPU which in this case, is going to be a Quadro, which is a lot better
than your onboard graphics which we won't even have on this machine anyway. And most importantly, it fits perfectly on to
our standards please. - All right, before you do all of that, do you want me to save you a step? - Oh yes. - Yeah, you should probably
put the CPU cooler. - Oh, our motherboard tray
doesn't have a back plate. - Yep. - Or well, a punch out. - Yeah. - Yeah, that makes sense. You don't want a hole in your song because then you wouldn't
have the whole song. (makes weird face) Man, this is gonna be a gorgeous machine if these renders ended
up being a reflection of what it actually looks like. - I did a proper render too. - So you're telling me, all the other renders are not proper. Like when you rendered the uh, sketchy heat sink. - Uh, yes. - Why, you did do a proper render? I hadn't even seen that one yet. - Yeah. - I like it. Do you remember a single slot GPUs? - Uh, only in Quadros. - Cause I remember. Look at that. Talala! She fits. So that's how we're accounting
for the PCIe covers. - Yeah. - Wow, it's like right there. - It's like perfect. - It's like, actually perfect. Okay. - So this needs, um, well you're not gonna like
what's gonna come next. - Oh. - We need the cutter to cut us PCIe slots, from that case right there. - Oh, that's fine. - Do you wanna do the honors, Linus? - Everyone gets mad
when I use power tools. (cutting metal) - Why this super cheap
case PCIe slot thingy, is really good, is because, instead of having like you know, how they normally have those nice, like, curves and stuff, - Right. - inset. This is just flat. - They actually simplified the, bending of the sheet metal that they use to make the case which is perfect for our uses. - Yeah, boom. (makes joyous sound) - Nice, well. - Other way - Yeah. - There. - Also, no. Basically like that. (both laughing) We're not flat enough yet. - No. - Do I have it in kind of
a good spot to go flat? - Like, I don't know. You're just hucking in the vice and going. - Oh wow. - I think you're thinking
about this too much. - Oh, I think thinking about it, a little, is not a terrible plan. This doesn't even account
for seven PCIe slots, I don't think. - That's fine, our
motherboard only has six. - Well, you left all seven on here. So, there's your problem. Before you cut anything, let's think extremely carefully here. If we line this up here and we mark it, we can probably save ourselves a little bit of back and forth. And that right there, is where it needs to be then. - So we just, chop off the slot. - Uh, yes. (metal cutting) - I don't know, what quality of steel this is. But it's probably somewhere
between toast and cheese. I think I know roughly where, this bend needs to be, and where we can chop it. Please do not break. (hammering) (drilling) It would appear, that this is working. One of the most important things
we have to remember to do, is to pre-drill, literally everything. So if we just huck a screw into this, the wood's probably gonna split and this whole piece is ruined. (drilling) You can just hear the wood, wanting to split as this goes in. It's so close to the edge. And you might notice that
there are two screw holes here, that we drilled. Then we realized that
those are going to butt up against the motherboard tray. So, we can't use those. They'll just be like, pressed in by the motherboard tray. - That's awesome. - Yeah. - I mean, it's really hard to install screws in your cards, but, - Oh yeah. - That sounds like someone else's problem. - Yeah, it's gonna be terrible. We need to pre-drill all of these. - Yeah. Yeah. - Then we'll put down some glue, and screw it together, and hopefully it doesn't split. (drilling) - Okay. What are we using? - Uh, screws. - Well, yeah, you're
gonna be solid as hell. Really? No "go to hell Linus"? - Uh, If I thought of
that, I would have said it. Go to hell Linus. - I don't know if I wanna give
it any more than that, Alex. - Yeah, that was kinda scary. - Yeah. Okay, so we can install
the Quadro now then, right? - Yeah. - Heck yeah. I'm gonna need you to
kind of compress it a bit, while I try to get this in there. - Can we get a hand? - Yeah. - Can we get one more hand? - We need to uh, - [Sebastian] What do you need? - push the back of the Quadro. - All right, lift it up a little bit, cause it keeps pushing the screw. Okay. It's lined up. Now I just have to find
a way to turn the screw. This is horrible. Wait boys, I think I got it. It's in. - I want to be clear that repairability, was something that we
tried to design into this. Um, apologies, German car makers, when people get mad at you for dumb things that you do like this. - Yeah. - Bottom? But uh, here, right? - Yeah. - Okay. Bottom me. Oh hey, we got some shout outs here. Really? You shouted out yourself? - [Sebastian] I did. - Well, yeah he did. - Oh, okay. - It's the designers of the case. - That was very kind of you, thank you. - Let's get screws in here. - Why don't we do, there's
a power one of those? - Uh, because I'm scared of powering that. - No way. I got this, don't worry. What could go wrong? Is this even gonna fit in here? - [Tynan] Should. - That's what she said. (everyone laughing) - How many LMG'ers and guests does it take to build a box out of wood? Building a box out of wood
is actually not that easy. - It's incredible the
things that woodworkers do. - [Tynan] Do you want the actual side? - How much wood, would a woodwork work, if a woodwork could work wood? So this is the final one? We're screwing it in? This is it? It's go time? - Um, I guess so. - Okay, I guess so. Don't sound too confident, Alex. So let's get this corner perfect. Let's go, screw, screw, screw. And we'll go from there. - Okay. - Watching nerds, build
boxes, standing on stools. Hello, OSHA. - Do you want to take that
off of the drill setting? - Nope. - I liked the drill setting. (drilling) Oh yeah. - It's not your two days
of work going into these. - Hey. Touch it. Is it perfect or not? - It's not the perfectness
that I'm concerned about. - It's all in the wrist. (chuckles) You let the tort carry the arm, and then that's what absorbs the, - If only there was something that could do that automatically for you. - Look at that, man. It's a computer, dawg. - [Tynan] It's a lot
sturdier than I expected. What do you mean it's a lot
sturdier than you expected? Of course it's sturdier. It's made of wood. - Let's attach the fans. - Um. - Maybe remove the sticker from the fan. - The sticker? We could remove the sticker, for a clean look. But what we might end up with, is residue we can't take off. I can pretty much guarantee that this fan is older than my children. So, I vote, leave it. I think it's gonna be very
difficult to remove cleanly. He's going for it. It comes off, actually, very mostly, as cleanly. - [Sebastian] We call
that saoghjieojowqgpq. - You call? That's the word for it? (sneezes) - [Tynan] It's a german word for, being fluently able to remove a sticker from a fan. It's a rich language. (everyone laughing) - It can't possibly be. There can't possibly be
a word just for that. - [Sebastian] Ask Jonathan. - I believe you. - I guess we need nuts. - Which nuts? - One second. - I can only tee him up,
so like, beautifully. (everyone laughing) - I needed to pick them up, okay. These nuts, right there. (everyone laughing) - Let's get our D15 installed. Man, this thing is just, it looks like, it means
business, you know? - You think you can get the
RAM in there, no problem? - Uh, yeah. - Ooh. Sixty four gigs. 3200, probably what? Like C16? Yep. Nice. Was that all in? - PRIME PX 1000. - Not bad. A thousand Watts, baby. - Did you put the storage in? - Uh, no. - Oh. - Oh, crap. - Uh, here. - These might take away from lanes that would otherwise be PCIe
express slots and stuff. I'd have to double check the manual. - What about we stick it in here, and I fix it tomorrow, and put in the other one? - Yeah. - And we'll have footage, right now, of me fixing it. So that, you know, we're
not lying for sure. - Oh, wow. Two terabytes of M.2, and another four terabytes
of two and a half inch strip. Do you have any two
and a half inch mounts? You're gonna go get the tape. Uh, no. (both laughing) - I love these things so much. - I know, right? These tools have M.2s. Amazing. (machine starts) That might be a little fast. We might have to put a
little resistor in there, or something. Now, obviously I'm not the only one who wants to see how fast
it spins at 12 volt, right? Wait, was that 12 volt? That was 12 volt. - Oh. - I had it wired up wrong. (everyone laughing) - So I guess we can plug
it into the 12 volt, and have a part, and it'd be perfect. - That's the way to go because it won't start at five volts. There's just too much maths. Too much inertia. "5,900X", all 64 gigs of RAM detected, storage device detected. We haven't plugged this one in yet. Everything's looking good. This thing is sick. - Yeah. Good job, you and Tynan. Shout out to SOLIDWORKS
for their gear toolbox. Made making those real easy. I wanna go back to 12 volts. That's pretty loud. - CPU Gobber. - [Sebastian] Oh! You can hook it up with the temperature of the CPU. - Haw! Oh, that would be so cool. I mean, we could do it with a relay, and an Arduino or something, but to do it simply. - Well, we have some. - [Sebastian] Transistor? - Yeah, some transistors. - Transistors! - So we can just hook that up to the PWM, and the 12 volt. - That would be super cool. Also super annoying. It's a little loud. - Yeah, it's pretty loud. - [James] That's the best part. (everyone laughing) - I love how steampunk this thing is, it's so janky and clackity. It's awesome. - To finish this PC, there's loads may need to get done today. So we have to cut the top panel, glue the ribs together, and sand them down, weld the frame, paint the legs, get the front IO attached, attach the feet, so it stays nice and level, add a gear switch, so they don't just run all the time, and also do a fan curve for them. We add an SSD bracket, so it doesn't just float around, decided that the double-sided
tape isn't a great idea. Attach the hinge, attach the latch, and finally install windows. Hope we can get it done. So it's what, it's uh, 5:30. Linus isn't here. He's doing WAN show right now. He couldn't join us unfortunately. Now, this right here, was our beautiful idea for how to make it repairable. So it has this wonderful hinge, these nice ribs, lots of air flow through here. Problem is, the heads of the screws
are hitting each other. So instead of going flush, it's sitting proud like that. - I have a couple of possible solutions, including a lot more grinding and mostly a lot more grinding. So we took out some screws, and apparently it works now. It didn't quite feel like
it was getting caught on one of the screws when
we were putting it together. And either one of the bolts, one of the screws that we took out, was the actual problem. - [Sebastian] I think it got caught on this SATA cable on the bottom. - Yeah, it very well may have been resting on something that we just weren't seeing. - Yeah. So, we'll start putting the screws back in until either they're all back in, or it starts interfering again. In the CAD, we put a nice little hole in the bottom to run the cabling up. However, when we were going through it we ended up not actually
cutting it out on the router like had been intended. Unfortunately, there's kind of a computer in the case. Who would've thought! - Yeah. - I can understand why
everyone always says, okay, make sure everything's ready, and don't build it in
the case until it's done. - [Sebastian] I blame Linus. - Yeah I blame Linus too. But also, this is gonna
be an interesting time. - Oh, one more thing. - Oh. - Can we put a piece of coal in your butt? I wanna make some diamonds. (all laughing) - Here we go. Oh, let there be smoke. Oh, and let there be smoke again. And with any luck, hey, we're through. All of this could have been solved if we had just cut the hole on the router in the first place. - Yeah, that can just pass through. (machine humming) - All right. - So Martin, I wouldn't entirely trust these screws. They're only half an inch long. It's probably fine, but like, you know, lift it up supporting everything. Don't just like, carry it around, by this like, that, or, yeah. To hold this whole thing down, we have this very nice latch. So one side, other side, you know, clips together something like that. It's pretty neat. Problem is, it was supposed to go on the bottom of this, and then, this side goes right there. So it goes down and, its in, way too far. There's this horrible thing
called tolerance stack, and if you're an engineer, you probably just shuttered. So it's basically where there's a whole bunch of dimensions and if we get all of them
just a tiny bit wrong, it can add up to this, instead of being like, you know, flush out here. It's in, a half an inch, because, you know, you lose an eighth of an inch back here, an eighth of an inch right there, an eighth of an inch in here, eighth of an inch right there. Next thing you know, it doesn't work. Which means, what we have to do is, I put my hand through
the power supply hole, hold it right here. This is now a lifting hole, not a latch hole. (drilling) Please work, I swear to God I'm going home either way, but like. - Oh it does the thing. - Yeah, it did it. It's latched. It is now Monday. We were hoping to have the PC done by now, but it's not, but it does need to be
done by the end of the day, so, I'm going to LA. In a couple hours, this should look really good. We printed off this nice little holder. So now, you can just
hopefully find a place for it, and screw it in. (metal cutting) With the help of about 50 zip ties, this is looking not too bad. I'm really sorry, Martin, for whenever you want to upgrade this cause it's gonna be a nightmare getting all those cables out. It's gonna look good though. - Oh, yeah. Hell yes. Let's see if we can
get into the BIOS here. There we go. That's a bit more chill. Oh, does the switch work? Nice. Cause you don't want
that on, all the time. Oh, just hit it with a Cinebench run, and with any luck. Yes. (laughs) The gears start moving faster when the computer's working harder. That is frigging sick. Okay, let's turn that off. They are a little bit loud. I think you can get a
little graphite powder that'll quiet it down a little bit, but that's not my problem anymore. So Martin, I really hope
you liked this thing. It was a metric (beep) load of work. And I'm sorry that this is
your first PC coming from Mac. It's not gonna be the easiest to use, but it is gonna be one
of the most sweetest. Also huge thanks to Yanik, Sebastian, and Tynan for all of the work that they put into making this, more like a piece of art than I ever could have done on my own. And huge thanks to SOLIDWORKS
for sponsoring this video. I really liked their Maker stuff, cause I can now do videos like this, and you can afford it. "3DEXPERIENCE SOLIDWORKS for Makers" allows you to get
SOLIDWORKS for $99 a year. That's basically the whole deal. So you get SOLIDWORKS
Professional, 3D CAD, just like we've been using for years. And it runs on Windows, with optional cloud storage available. With "SOLIDWORKS for Makers", you also get there in browser 3D creator, and 3D sculptor. So, you can use those anywhere, on a MacBook, on a tablet, on a Chromebook, doesn't matter. Anything that has a browser, will run it. This bundle is great for
anyone learning the trade. You can make personal projects and more. You can use SOLIDWORKS
full suite of design tools to make your own all wood PC, or design more conventional things like, home DIY projects, woodworking projects, 3D printables, props, and almost anything else you can think of. Use the link in the description to get 20% off "SOLIDWORKS for Makers", which is a frigging sick deal. So thanks for watching guys. If you liked this video, maybe watch our whole
series on the pyramid PC. That was another obscenely difficult, and very off the walls project. More off the walls in this one even. It had like $4,000 in RGB alone. This one makes more sense. This one's better. It's not as stupid though. (chuckles)