Audio nerds, I'm calling you out. Anyone can review a headphone. All you gotta have is ears, and a head, I guess, and a phone, see? Headphone. The point is, making headphones. Well, that takes precision. It takes determination. It takes gumption, which is why I am gonna be competing to build the best pair of headphones with my good buddy Dankpods. Hey, mate, how's it going? So, like this one time, I flew all the way to Canada. I'm all out of Tim’s. And I went to this fully sick convention where I met all these fully sick people. It was fully sick, until I became fully sick, and the most fully sick I've felt in years, mate. but like, don't worry about me. As long as I can get in the bed, mate, everything's gonna be, oh no! Oh, okay. Competing to make the best headphones from scratch with my, really? Yeah. Anyway, we are each gonna build headphones, and we are going to send them to Dankpods to get the final judgment. The catch? All of the parts we're using are from AliExpress. This is gonna be one janky headphone. Two janky headphones. Actually, four, two pairs of janky headphones. Oh, and a janky segue to our sponsor, Moosend. With Moosend, you can streamline, optimize, and automate your email marketing campaigns with beautiful and customizable templates. Sign up for a free 30-day trial today using the link below, and prepare to be utterly amazed with what they can do. This feels like a bit of a hack that you're the one who sourced all the parts and did all the research for this, and I'm just coming in cold. You have the upper hand in that you've probably spent more time doing these kinds of projects than I have. I've never soldered in my life. Oh, we solder. As you can see, we have a whole host of pieces that have been 3D printed. We wanted to give you guys a little bit of a selection so you could style your own headphones. By you guys, you mean us guys, because he didn't, he got sick. The plans we're using today are called the Satyr 2 headphones from Capra Audio. They've given us all the plans and some instructions on how to build them, but the other catch is we're not gonna use those instructions. Don't. People hate it when we do this. They also love it when we do this. We didn't get all of the parts. We're making some things. We are not making ear cushions out of a pillow. Oh, well, I mean, you might make ear cushions out of a duck, or some of these leather samples, or this foam. Listen, we got so many choices. It's gonna be great. You know, I saw the Head(amame) on set, and I thought maybe we were doing something smart. No. Man, I really wish Dank was here, because I could kind of try and sneak knowledge out of him, like, oh, yeah, you know, why would you want a pattern like this instead of a pattern like this? Is it purely aesthetic? Does it make a difference? And he'd be like, oh, yeah, you know, mate, whatever, Austri-, kangaroos. Oh, yeah, it makes a big old difference, that, right? Yeah, yeah, exactly. My Pkcell. I wanna get in here and have a look at these drivers before Adam gets in here. These are pretty crusty. Okay, now, just a second here, Adam. Just a second here, Adam. Which one? You know what they are. I don't really. I told you this was gonna be an advantage. I knew what they were when I bought them, but they're all just labeled by, like, a series of letters and numbers. I don't know which one's which. Well, why did you remember which one to grab? I took the ones that looked the least busted. I'll have you know that the most expensive one among these was $2 a driver. I'll be going with these. They're 40 millimeter drivers. I got 633, so I got high-end speaker. Hey, where's the G400? $13 per set of two. Oh, you weren't supposed to see that. Well, where is it? It's nowhere. Oh, it must be in here. There it is. Got them. They're the composite wol speaker. Sorry, what? The composite wol speaker was what their listing said. I think they mean wool. Yeah, I think they do mean wool. I think I just won the game. Oh, well- Unless you can- No, that's okay. Well, I'll tune mine way better. I'll have an EQ. You know what? You know what? I will not use the composite wol speaker. Wow. I want a fair fight. What a gentleman. I also took the initiative to grab us $4 soldering irons from AliExpress. Sorry, there's the one soldering iron costs $4 or four cost a dollar each. One costs $4. Did I get a bad deal? You really brought pieces of our T-shirts? Yeah, because we need filters to tune our headphones. We also have coffee filters to tune our headphones. Are we expected to use everything on the table between the two of us? Everything? No, we have lots of extra parts. Oh, good. That won’t make it harder. Just so you guys know, I am aware that I'm screwing this together before soldering it. I want to have some idea how it goes together before I figure out exactly what I'm soldering and where and where it'll cable manage and all that good stuff. And I'm copying that strategy. Insta-cure gap-filling medium five to 10 second glue. Sure hope it lasts a lot longer than five to 10 seconds. Very funny. That's really funny. Stop acting like that's not a joke that you would have made. Oh, this is a damn lie. Full strength is reached in two hours. You can't call it five to 10 second glue if it takes two hours. That's two hour glue. This screw has just been filed off. Adam, do we actually have 12 millimeter screws or do we have 16 millimeter screws that we cut off? The second one. So that's why I can't get the screw in and that's why it keeps ripping my inserts out. Oh crap, they're shmoo all up in the threads now. Okay, we got this cool flexible filament and then there's a screw hole here and you secure the whole thing in the middle like that. Have you started gluing things together without wiring? No, we're okay, we're okay. But I'm wondering if I glued the inserts in the wrong way. That was the look of a man experiencing deep regret. Are both the headbands cat ears? Yes, we didn't give you a choice on that. This is the reference. This is what it's supposed to look like. Wait, you're putting that like against the user's ears? No, because the ear cups go here. No, I know, but like, you know, their lobes will touch it. I don't know, it's pretty nice. It's thinking. Can you not? Oh, this is weird. This might not be taught enough. Maybe it should do some more learning. Yeah, but I'm worried that it's gonna go if I blow music through it. All right. Hey, that's slick. I've decided to just stop worrying about which length of screw goes where. I think at your state, you're probably fine. Cool. But that might cause problems for me. Did you bring wire strippers? I forgot wire strippers. Gee dang it, I'm going back. Okay, while he's gone, the wooly drivers. Should I? I should, you should. I shouldn't, shouldn't I? Yeah, I should, I should. I should just blow him away in this competition and he will never be any the wiser. I am just gonna start soldering stuff because what could go wrong? Okay. Three employees with their soldering irons. Tanner's tapping in for me. He's my super, my superpower is the power of friendship. This is not my finest work. In fact, I would like you to not look very closely at it, but it's on there. I would like to hear this driver do something before I go any further in this process. It sounds like crap. No spoilers. I am actually reasonably close to finishing. If I cheat and use off the shelf ear cushions. No. We are going to cheat and use off the shelf ear cushions, right? No, of course not. Wait a second, I didn't trim this wire and I also need to go through the headphone. You fell for one of the classic blunders. No. Meanwhile in Linus town, I am ready to feed my wires into the ear cup. How did I get the third wire through this last time? I have no idea, but that's okay because I have a devious plan that is much better than Adam's plan. I will use one of the wires I have already gotten through to fish through a second wire. I'm basically done. And you know what? I don't care what you say. I am just not going to make my own ear cups because I don't think Wade wants to put that on his head. Listen, I think my custom ear cups will put them over the edge. I'm good to go. I want to hear them. I am pretty sure that I'm going to win this. I've got to say, you guys look cool. These are, wow, there you go. Moment of truth time. Crab rave, here we go. I have heard so much worse than this. Really, I don't believe you. There's no way. There's no way you're giving this a mildly positive. Too much bass. It's pretty muddy. And the highs do not sparkle. And they're really spiky. They're listen-to-able though. They are listen-to-able, which is better than what yours will be. Oh, I disagree. I have organic paper filters. Yeah. No. Yeah. No. I don't believe you. Oh, they're so much worse. They're so bad. They're terrible. They sound, it's all bass and nothing above it. It sounds like somebody's listening to it in the other room. Yeah. You know why? No. Because you put a fricking wall between the drivers and the ears. I bet you we just need to dial it down, change the ear cups out. Here, try turning them up. Maybe they'll sound better. When should I tell them that I used the more expensive drivers? I knew it. Oh, did you hear me? Yes. You know why I knew it? Because they look different. Because last night I was going to use them and I saw that I found the plastic. I consider these done, ready to ship. Okay. I guess we'll see what the verdict is when we send them to Dankpods. Or hear me out. We ship Dankpods here. G’day mate, how you going? What? G’day mate, how you going? So I think I've told you the premise is that we built headphones from scratch with AliExpress components. I mean, we printed some of them. So the drivers and everything? We bought drivers. We wired them together. We put in ports. We used a soldering iron from AliExpress. It was all pretty AliExpress. You didn't switch and tape. You used a soldering iron. It's pretty DIY. Yeah. One of them is really great. And one of them is Adam's. And it's your job to figure out which one is which. Okay. So these, hold on, hold on, hold on. One at a time, one at a time, one at a time. I didn't see anything. I'm over here until you need me. I can't see. So is this how it normally happens around here? That's nice. I mean, blindfolds would be nice. All right. Okay, here we go. The other one we'll just have to, it'll just have to hover. Okay, Wade, ready? Yes. Go for it. There's no green. What do you mean there's no green? There's green right here. It's kind of blue. It's just Canadian green. Cat ear, excellent. I've actually got a set of these buried in their box still. We both went with the cat ears. Did you know that you're both going with cat ears? I don't think so. I didn't give you a choice. I said cat ears was the only option. It was the default. That's interesting having a tag in where there's meant to be sound coming out. So those are made by our one and only Hana at a Creator Warehouse. Oh, these are hand put together. That's heaps special. Linus would not bother to do it. I actually worked on mine. Oi, oi, they got swivel in them. So that actually will fit human heads. Cause if they don't swivel, right? That’s nice. This is our human head that we used to test it. That's a good beard line, actually. That's a strong, that's a strong beard. What happened here? Dennis. I like that you emulated a real cat, how it's got hairy bits that come out. So it's like the real thing. That was an Adam innovation. I actually preferred that you not get those in your hair. You've actually got a headband. Look at that drip. What's that from? Drip, that's it's style. Look at this drip. Oh. I don't remember putting a non-porous material in front of my drivers. Yeah, it's kind of like listening through a spandex suit. No, no, no, no, no. I'm sure it's acoustically transparent. A badge from our very own merch. Wow, that makes it official. So how many of these are going to sell on the lttstore.com? Zero. Well, no, two, two units. These two. Oh no, they're not even close to meeting our quality standards. These are yours. Yes. You can plug them on in. You got any preferred test tracks that you want to listen to? If we're being stereotypical, Scarlet Fire works. He looks great. Can I just point out that he looks great? They're bassy, all right. Hell yeah. All right, now I'm going to do the quick AB swap. Oh no, Mini. Oh no. This happens every time. Oh, these are really nice. The way they- That was a weird noise. That was an alarming noise. I love how we're being mean to him, trying to kind of spur him on to be mean to us, but he's being so nice. These aren't nice. These aren't good. You can be honest with us. We're bros. Look how nice that is. That's pro. That's so good. That was a part of the design, actually. Those have a lot of bass and these have noticeably more and less of other things. I mean, the analogy really is, it's like listening through this tag a little bit. Yeah, why did you put that on there? Because we, you know, I- I told you not to do that. They needed a little bit of zhuzhing up. We need some jazz, mate. Yeah, something that really takes advantage of the bass. Jazz music. Oh, look, they pulled out. That's why. Oh, sick build quality. These ones have pulled out. It’s alright, I thought something broke. So I feel like that docks points. No way. Yeah, absolutely. They don't hold together. I mean, jazz does a really good job of it. The big double bass is huge. These are nicer. Yeah, after you sabotaged mine. Oh, they're yours. It's not supposed to have this on here. Well, I mean, this has got the same though. Well, yeah. They're both pretty bad. Oh my golly goodness. What are you doing? What are you doing? I'm cutting it. What are you- I’m making audio holes. You're gonna make Hana cry. Speed holes. Makes the audio faster. I mean, I mean, like, I love huge bass. I mean, if I was listening to Pendulum. Yeah, those are good Pendulum cans. Go to a rave with them. People will notice you. No, it's, I mean, you got to try them. A and B, like with these. Cause it's like, it's fun how little bass that these feel like they have compared to these. I know they're terrible. I want to swap them. But people like bass. Everyone, all the most popular headphones are all full of bass. These are nice and airy. You can hear that. They're a little bright. You can make them look brighter. Yeah, these got that Raycon sound signature. You know? Are they the cheapest drivers you could get? More like $2. Those ones are one, I think those ones are a buck 15 each. And the ones that Linus are using is $10 for two of them. I mean, cost is hard because the machines that do all the printing and stuff. But is it like a raw material cost we can discuss? I mean, I'm guessing the filament costs more than the actual drivers. Oh, I think that the budget for these overall and all in was less than $40 each. The sound signature of these is concert bathroom. The bathroom at the Sydney Opera House. Yeah. I was going to say it's some guy with a deep voice humming along to the music next to you. And you can almost hear over him. All right. Let's see how actually bad they are. If I had to guess, I would say the red one is mine. They got that nice. And the green one is still Adam's. Yeah, they got that nice bump right there in the high bass here, mate. Yeah, 100 Hertz. Oh yeah. This 100 to 200 Hertz, it just makes it sound like it's booming. That's where kick drum is. That's where a lot of bass is. It's low male voices. Look at the mids here. This is the HD 600s, famously good in reference. Not bassy, but the mids actually have presence. Flat. Everything's in the mids. Literally 90, 80% of the music is in the mids. Yeah. The human voice starts around 400. Yeah. It can go down to 200, but like this is, which is right. Scoop the mids. When our AliExpress specials just. Nah mate, that's called scooping the mids. Yeah. Scoop those mids. The V sound signature. Yeah. V. Far less consistent. Yours are objectively better than mine. These are averaged. Right. These are not just one-off bad runs. Yeah. Okay. They suck. Just like this segue to our sponsor. Throne. We use Throne to create some of our landing pages and they're a great one-stop shop for wishlists, but this holiday season, they're doing something special. Breaking world records. I don't know. I can't make that sound. It doesn't matter. Now's your chance to get in on the action and help Throne break the world record for the largest online gift exchange ever. The steps are super simple. Enroll in the ultimate secret Santa gift exchange at the link down below, and you'll be automatically matched with another participant. Then fill out your own wishlist from Throne's gift store or Amazon, and your match will do the same. Then you browse and choose a gift for your match from their wishlist. No one said you can't get a little creative, of course, as well. And in return, you'll receive a gift from your match as well. And the best part is Throne takes care of the shipping. So you never have to share your address with your match or deal with the task of organizing everything. So don't wait. Head over to the link down below and sign up to help break the world record for the largest online gift exchange. Enrollment ends on December 18th. So get your name in there. Who knows? Maybe you'll even get paired with one of us. If you guys enjoyed this video, go check out DankPod's channel. I can't even keep track of all the different content streams you have going these days. You've got the audio stuff. You've got the car stuff. You've got the drum stream. The drum thing and my drum channel. There's a drum channel that goes with it. Okay, we're gonna have it all linked below. Yeah, the Trash Network on Floatplane. Trash Network.