- Today, I'm gonna show you guys how I gave away $1 million. It all started when I got my
first brand deal from Quidd. They gave me $10,000 and I was like, "Whoa, that's a lot of money." And I immediately went outside and gave it to a homeless person. So, if you wanna take
it, it's about $10,000. And that right there is the first time I ever gave away a large amount of money. Quidd offered me another
$10,000 or something like that for another video. And this time I wanted to help
as many people as possible, And I just gave like,
I don't know how much but I gave 'em like a few thousand each instead of just giving it all to one guy. Hi... - What you have to do with the camera? - I'm a YouTuber. I'm going around giving random people who needs $1,000 so... - $1,000? Best day of my life, right here. - Dude, I really like that guy, no joke. He was actually like super cool. And the next giveaway I did
was actually the first time I ever donated to Twitch streamers. It was titled, "Donating $10,000 To
Random Twitch Streamers," and it was also sponsored by Quidd. - He donated $300 more! - 200 isn't crap. - MrBeast, no. - Yeah, so this was the
first guy I ever did like a big donation to. Like I've always donated
to Twitch streamers, but since this video was sponsored and I actually had thousands of dollars, like this was the first
time I actually gave a Twitch streamer over a grand, and his reaction was hilarious. Fast forward a few weeks, and Quidd wanted to do
another video with me. This was my fourth
sponsored video with them, and, of course, I was doing
other content in between, But back then, I had no idea that like brand deals were
even really like this crazy. And the fact that they kept giving me 10 grand to give away
was like insane to me. Dude, I love this guy's reaction. - Yeah. - Stop playing.
- No. - No!
- No. - Are you serious? - Actually, I lied, it was $300. - Really? God, give you back. Thank you for it. Oh, my God! - Yeah. - Thank you, thank you, thank you. - Dude, I love him. There's a guy, a Chinese man. Yeah, this guy right here. He wouldn't take the money. Yeah, like he goes, "No, no, no, no, no." I had like $500 too and he didn't want it. That was one of like the
first highs I ever got like donating to people, and then I was like, "This is a lot of fun,
I wanna keep doing it." And then ever since then,
I've just been like, "Hey, I might as well just give away everything I make, right?" Just kidding. My channel started to do really well and we were making lots of money. So then I did this video, which
was also sponsored by Quidd. Obviously, they didn't
give us, you know, anywhere near the $100,000 that I gave my mom. But I mean, it at least helped. And then came donating money
to attractive Twitch streamers. By the way, Chandler and
Chris are now joining us. - Hello?
- Hello. Throughout my whole life, I've gone through ups and
downs watching PewDiePie. But like at this point I was watching a lot of PewDiePie and like
one of his memes were like "Respecting women." And so then I was like, "Hey, I'll just respect women on Twitch." And so that's what this was. - Respect. - I watched a lot of PewDiePie
and it influenced me. Okay? In weird ways. - Professional woman respecter here. Reporting for duty. - It's time for a respect raid. I remember that. Yeah, this guy right here. - Maybe he sent a couple videos too. - Yeah, no, no this was
the only one he was at. - Oh yeah, yeah. - There was another shirtless dude. That was another video. So then after that we did another one because people loved the first one and were demanding for a second one. I was like, "Okay, I'll do it." - Spread the love. - Yeah, that's him. That's my dude, that's what I like. - This is your favorite shirtless
fat dude on Twitch dude. - Yeah, exactly. I'll take this over any streamer, man. - Yeah.
- He belly slap. So then, we bought a car with pennies and gave it to my stepdad. You have no idea how long it
took to like unravel all this. We literally showed up to the
dealership, and we're like, "Oh, this will take 30 minutes." Like half a day later, we were still like taking the pennies out of
the little wrapper things. Dude, look how happy he is. And the only logical thing to do after buying a car with pennies is to give $30,000 to a Twitch streamer. This one was a very big
video for me back then. And the guy I donated to was SpaceLyon. He was just an extremely humble dude. Dude, then I did 5,000. Dude, I think he started crying. Yeah, $10,000, that's what I did next. - That was huge back in that day. - Look at this, he just stops. Fun Fact! A few months after this, we tied our shoes in every state, we actually stopped by his place. - [Chris and Chandler] Three, two, one. - Then I bought a car with $1 bills and gave it to my brother. Dude, it looks like a
stud kind right there. - Yeah. - That's my brother, we gave it to him. I keep trying to make my
brother start a YouTube channel. He doesn't want it, whatever. - People think I'm your brother now. - Yeah? - A lot of people- - You might as well be it.
You wanna be my brother? - Yeah. Can you- - He's officially my brother. - Can I be your son
instead of your brother? - No, you're my brother. - Okay.
- Yeah. Guys, comment down below, if
you think my actual brother this guy right here should
start a YouTube channel. And then we gave homeless people, $20,000. It starts off, I gave this guy $1,000. Dude, that's the same as what we did, just way lower scale. - Right? - I don't know if when this goes public, our "Giving $100,000 to homeless people," if that video's public. But this is literally what we did just at a much lower scale, cause we only had 20 grand at the time, which by the way this video
wasn't even sponsored. Like a lot of comments
on the video are like "You only do this 'cause
your videos are sponsored." I'm like, "This one
wasn't even sponsored." - Big daddy. - Yeah, the infamous Ninja donation. You know, I used to
watch Ninja occasionally. Pretty good streamer. I used to play a lot of Fortnite. I was like, "Hey, let's
give him 30 grand." - This man is a God. - That was a lot of fun. And it was really cool
interacting with Ninja back then. 'Cause like back then I was really small and then bought a boom, bought a bang, We hit 3 million subscribers and gave him 3 million pennies. So, now it's time I give
you a little insights. 3 million pennies is $30,000, but getting 3 million pennies which weigh like thousands of pounds. We need like a big truck to move it all, obviously cost more than 30 grand. I think in total it cost us $42,000 to get $30,000 of pennies, and then it was thousands
of dollars to transport it. In total, like this video
was like a $48,000 video. We bought the pennies off of eBay 'cause banks wouldn't give them to us 'cause they thought we were joking. Look at that like two- - Two tractor trailers. - Look at all those pennies. - We had to rent a forklift. We had to do all kinds of stuff. - Look at all those pennies. Dude, that was such a crazy video. I still can't believe we did that. And then we dropped $20,000
dollars from drones. - That was fun. - As you see, there's a drone up there and we literally just put
a bunch of money in it and just dropped it. It was crazy seeing people- - Look at it. Look at that kid. - The first time we did it, we dropped it in front of Walmart but it was so high up, the wind blew, and it literally blew all
the money on top of Walmart. Like no joke, if you go
on our local Walmart, there's probably like a couple
thousand dollars up there. After this you just... - Wait, I know that dude. - Do you really? - Yeah. He didn't get any money. - He's like I'm screaming, "I'm late." - What? Wasted? - Didn't get a dollar. - Dude, could you call him? - I gotta send him that. - Call him. Do you remember who dropped
the money from the drone? - Yeah, yeah I remember. - We were just watching that and you look so sad. Was Chandler weirdo when he was young? - Yeah, we worked with
him on a anatomy project and he took the lead in dissecting... I think it was a pig fetus or something, and he got squirted by one
of the organs and seemed- - Yeah, dude, I remember that. It squirted all over my face. - All right, well next time
we drop money from a drone, we'll try to drop it when
you're paying attention. I gave my 4 million
subscriber, 4 million cookies. Obviously, that doesn't involve money but at the end I handed them four grand. And then we donated $10,000
if they said this word- - What word? - I think it was fluffy. - Fluff, fluff, fluff. - That's such a hard word to say though. Like who would say that? - My hint was it has to do with rabbits. I gave it away. Took her three seconds to win 10 grand. Hey, that's a lot of work, man. Well, I, you know, but like
when I was filming the video I was like, "She's not gonna get it." And she got it and I was like- - I remember that you were like- - I was like, "Well crap,
where's my content." Oh, then we destroyed our friend's car and bought him a new one. This car right here that we
screwed up was like $800. And then we took him to the dealership and we gave him 10 grand to
spend and he bought this Tahoe. Hey, there's you. Oh, dude, that's when you had spray tan. - That was a tan. - Yeah.
- Dude. - You got a spray tan? - Can we get replay that? Chris, I liked you put the tan better. - Thank you. - And that's calling current you not as attractive as old you. - Thank you. I agree, 100%. It says nothing to do
with giving away money but I spent a lot of money on an ice sculpture of Logan Paul For like all you knew
people that never saw it. - My fire thrower, look at that. - Look at that, we made weenies. Look how powerful that is. - I know, dude. - Wow!
- Good Lord. - I don't know if you've seen this video, but look at that. - Dude, that's an insane flame. - Let's move on before
environmentalists hate us. So this was the Logan Paul ice sculpture. - Actually, not bad. - Yeah, it was. dude, it was expensive. - That was like eight grand. And then right here is
our little check mark. This video titled, "I Gave
$500,000 to Random People" was uploaded seven months ago, and it was just a montage of all the times I gave
away money before it it wasn't any extra cash. Right here mark's $500,000 given away. So then we took apart Garrett's
car, put it in his room, and then we bought him a new one. - This was hard. - Yeah, this was a all lot of work. Dude, this one didn't
even get that many views. It only got 5 million views. It only got 5 million views. It only got 5 million views. Dude, we were talking about PewDiePie. Dude, people are like, "Oh, they're just hopping
on T-Series bandwagon." I swear to God since I've made my channel, I've always talked about PewDiePie. I've been talking about
PewDiePie for years. I was subscribed to PewDiePie when he had like 500,000. - [Chris and Chandler] OG flex, bougie. - Yeah, I know that is the
definition of a weird flex. Like everyone watching's probably like, "Why do we care?" Hi mom. My mom wants me to take my medicine. We're trying to film a video. - Yeah, could you all
turn these lights off when you leave? Then, it won't get so hot here. - All right guys, comment down below. Remind us, turn off the lights, so we don't make my mom unhappy. - We'll forget. - Yeah, we won't. I made money grow on trees. I don't remember how much we spent but I know we put like
thousands of dollars in ones. Oh dude, dude, wait, wait. No, I love the one where
the guy stole the tree, that is like my favorite. Yeah, right here. Wait, watch this. - He took the entire- - Literally, he did not care. - He took $1 and was like, "You know what? I'm sick of it." - Look at it, that is so funny to me. Oh yeah, remember this one, Chris? - Yeah, we threw money up in the air. Oh yeah, here's the famous back flip. - Boom.
- Ooh. - Didn't he look, he looks like he was hovering? Watch. - Yeah. I feel like half a second. - Yeah. - Oh, oh here's the big one. Then we donated 50,000 V box to Ninja. This was the first time
Honey ever sponsored us too. And this is when Honey
basically became the new Quidd. Everyone comment down
below your love for Honey. Oh, I'm definitely not saying that because they're about to give us a really large deal for next year. - This was fun. He had to drop his mats and stuff. - Oh yeah. - That was so cool. - Dude, if he would do a
charity stream like this again, I'd go back in with like a hundred grand. Every time I donated $250,
he had to drop his gun and $500, He had to drop his mats. - Dude, we had me and you were on two separate
computers spamming donations. So that way if he picked up mats- - Well, he would drop it-
- drop them instant. And right here, he had no materials because I kept donating $500
to making him drop it all. Donating $100,000 to
random Fortnite streamer. I didn't actually donate 100,000. I donated 50,000. MiniMiner who collabed
with me on the video did 50,000 so that's how
we got a hundred grand. Destroying my friend's car, I gave him $10,000 to buy a new one. Didn't we blow it up? - We blew it to smithereens, bro. - Look at this. Yeah, and then we poured slime on it. So we flipped it It destroyed it. Poured slime all over it. Oh no, no, no. - 50,000 likes we'll get spray tans. - I said, "If this
video gets 300,000 likes we all get spray tan." Chris, can you read those likes to me? - That is 595,000. - To be fair. I completely forgot I said that. Chandler, were you working here back then? Yeah. All right, we all have to get spray tans. - Let's get 'em. - I'm a man of my word. It might not be till
like January next year, but we will all go get
spray tan, I promise. I gave Tfue, $10,000 live. That was actually a lot of fun. - Those are good guys. - Yeah, I really like
Tfue and I also like Joog. These brothers extremely helpful. Anytime we want to do a video,
he's always down to help. And then I gave whoever stayed in the circle the longest $10,000, which spawned a very big trend. But more importantly than all
the people doing our trend, Chandler asked... - Can I throw my poop? - The meme was born. - The meme was born. And now people all the
time, even in public go up to Chandler and they're like, "Can you throw your poop?" - Yeah they do. - How do you feel that
like the whole world, all they care about is whether or not you can throw your poop? Like that that's it. - It's poor choice of words, dude. I had to live with the, "Do you moisturize?"
for like seven months. - And now that you said
it, it's coming back. Guess the right cup, $100,000. We didn't actually give
away $100,000 in this video. The premise of the video was, if you guess the right cup,
you won the money under it, and you could do double or nothing. But I think we only ended up giving away like 50 grand. People just weren't winning, like literally 90% of people lost. Hey, there's you, Chandler.
- Hey. - How much did you win? - 2,000. - You won $2,000? - Hey, I guess I'm not here. It's whatever. - Yeah, please skip Chris. - Oh yeah, it's fine. - I tripped. - All right, I need a
side by side comparison. People, which butt do you like better, Chris's butt or Chandler's butt? - You got a wedgie.
- No, my butt's better. - You got a wedgie, though. - Your butt hungry, boy. - I'm just saying I better
see a lot of comments about which person has the better butt. Oh my God, this video was hella expensive. Giving my 10 millionth
subscriber 10 million underscore, underscore, underscore. It was 10 million Ws. The rules are simple. 10 games. You get points placed on how you rank, seven, at first you get 30 grand, last place gets nine. You already know the rules. So in that video I brought in
my third, fourth, fifth, six, all of my millionth subscribers
had them play video games and I didn't even put the
$100,000 in that title, But I gave away $100,000 in that video to my, you know, millionth subscribers. That was a lot of money, that hurt. And then I gave the boys
one hour to spend 40 grand. I actually really like that video. What'd you buy Chris? - I bought the fence, which I love. I cannot thank you enough for that fence. - Wait, Chan, you don't have a beard here. - I know, right? - Dude, you look like a mountain man now. - I love this shot. They're just walking out
and then this old guy. That was funny. I wanna see what Chandler bought. - He already crashed me. - Are you at the end? No, you're not important,
you're probably at the end. - Awww. - That hurt. - Where's Chandler? Chris's dogs are more important. - Look at them, they we're so little. - Doggos. - And then after that we
destroyed our friend's house and completely revamped it. That was like 40 grand,
$20,000 to last leave slime. The Lego video, did I
keep away money in that? - Surprisingly, no. You just be giving out money all the time. - Yeah, I know. Oh, I gave your dad $20,000 in pennies. You did. That was cool. He loves his new car. Yeah, I never saw his new car. It was such a late night. I had a late night, the day before, so I left before he got it. And there it was the holy grail, last YouTuber to leave the circle got 100 grand that wasn't even sponsored. My bank account still hurts,
but it was a cool video. That was a lot of fun. That's probably one of my favorite videos. Cause I met, I gotta meet
a lot of cool people. You guys gotta go to LA
and go to the clubhouse. - I know, it was fun. - Yeah. - You guys are so famous. - I know I gotta meet a lot of people that I've watched for a while. - And then after that, I
donated $10,000 to PewdiePie. Like I didn't feel like clickbaiting it, but I think in reality we spent
like 40 grand on that video. Yeah, so that's all
the money we gave away. $1 million. If you want the special secret, you wanna know where it all came from. My parents aren't that rich. I'm only 20 years old. Every dollar I've ever
made came from YouTube and YouTube just pays
better than you think. All right, there you
go. That's the secret.