People probably have heard of Bourbaki, this group 
of mathematicians that came together in France to   kind of rewrite the foundations of mathematics. I 
remember being rather blown away when I went into   the library and seeing all of these books by this 
one mathematician, Bourbaki, kind of freaked me   out and I was quite pleased to discover oh no this 
is a group of mathematicians writing all of these.   But there was actually another interesting group 
in France that sort of- sort of inspired by the   Bourbaki which were called the OuLiPo movement. 
OuLiPo stands for something in French which   is about 'work for the potential of literature'. 
It was a group of mathematicians and writers   that were exploring how mathematics might be used 
to to generate literature; almost, you know, if   you're stuck and you don't know what to do, perhaps 
you can use mathematics as kind of shortcut to   start generating interesting new ideas. One of the 
leaders of that group was a guy called Queneau who   was kind of amateur mathematician interested 
in the Bourbaki group, but was really a poet.   And he came up with uh an incredibly beautiful 
way to be highly productive; in fact he ended up   uh being able to write a hundred thousand billion 
sonnets by tapping into a mathematical shortcut.   So how did he do this? Well remember a sonnet is 
a poem which has 14 lines, it has a particular   rhyming structure and rhythm structure to it 
as well. So what he did, he decided to write 10   lines that- you could choose one of those 10 
lines to be the first line of your sonnet. Then he wrote another 10 lines which you could 
choose to be the second line of your sonnet. So   basically he had 14 lines that he needed to 
write, but each line there were 10 choices   okay? So there are 10 choices for each line,
14 lines, that means there are 10 to the 14   possible sonnets that you could write. So just by 
writing 140 lines, but using this mathematical idea   of randomly choosing a line, the permutations that 
were possible meant with just a very small amount   of work, plus a bit of mathematics, he managed to 
write a hundred thousand billion - I think that's   10 to the 14 - different sonnets. 
- (Brady: They're not written down anywhere though? They can't be.) All of them are not written down. In fact I did a 
little calculation to work out- okay if you said,   I think you could probably say one of these sonnets 
in a minute? We could test that a little later. I   worked out if the first diplodocus that have ever 
evolved started reciting these sonnets, that by   now that diplodocus might have finished the whole 
lot. So we're talking a a lot of sonnets. You know   you might say, well that that doesn't require any 
creativity at all. No, the creativity is actually   writing lines of poetry that um whichever one you 
choose to follow next it sort of makes some sense.   So I don't know we could have a go at um uh 
doing- so I've got um from 1, this is the first   line, and I've got ten different lines here. So 
you- why don't we generate a Queneau sonnet? And the   interesting thing is the probability is that 
this will be the first time- this will be   the inaugural event of of this particular sonnet. 
So so you give me um a number and I will choose   that particular line for our first line.
- (I would like you to go through the stack there and do) (the 7th, the 8th, the 7th,
the 8th all the way through the stack.) Okay, let's go for that. So it goes like this: 'Prose took the minstrel's verse without a squeeze, licks round carved marble chops on snails full-blown, the understanding critic firstly sees,   while sharks to let's say potted shrimps are prone,   they both are right not untamed mutterings, 
nought can the mouse's timid nibbling stave,   they both are right not unformed smatterings, 
filching the lolly country thrift helped save,  poetic license needs no strain or stress, a 
bird-brain banquet melts bold Mistress Mog,  from cool Parnassus down to wild Loch 
Ness, whiskey will always wake an Irish bog,  ventriloquists be blowed you strike me dumb, fried 
grilled black puddings still the world's best yum.' Kind of curious, I'm not sure I- I 
understood quite what was going on there   but you could certainly hear the sonnet's 
structure, the rhyming structure, so he made   sure that the lines he chose um- and I think the 
challenge was yeah, very often we get stuck in a   rut and we sort of write things that we've heard 
before, um ideas that are old and a bit hackneyed,   and I think their thought with using 
mathematics as as a way to kind of push us   into something at first reading I'm not 
sure I made much sense of that, but maybe   we sit with it a bit and it takes us somewhere new. 
Maybe we won't end with that, but maybe that's a   beginning to stimulate us to take us somewhere new. 
And I think that was their idea, to use mathematics   to generate things that maybe we we wouldn't 
come across if we didn't use the mathematics.   (Yeah, I mean these days we have tweet bots and 
things, don't we, that make up tweets and things)   (like that using picking from lists and things like 
this, I mean these were pioneers I guess of that.) Yeah I think they were pioneers; and you know they 
came up with different strategies. Another one   I particularly like um which makes you hear an old 
poem in a new way was something they called n plus   7. So n stands for noun in this, you know, it's 
already an equation we've got n plus 7. n is a   noun and what it asks you to do is to take a poem 
you know but just to shift every noun in that poem   7 along in the dictionary. So for example, 'to be 
or not to be, that is the question': well question   is a noun so if I apply n plus 7 to that I 
get 'to be or not to be that is the quiche.' Now   that kind of- uh there's a combination of of things 
I know and then a surprise in there and it's kind   of absurd um but I think it it's interesting 
because it helps you to hear the structure   but perhaps takes away meaning. I've got another 
example of that actually, let me try and find   that um in here.
- (I want to go through every poem I know now and do that- apply that.) Well it it helps  you to hear the poem in a new way and then when 
you go back to it maybe it sort of helps you read   old poetry in a new way. So so here's an old 
poem, probably recognise this as a poem by Blake:   'to see a world in a grain of sand, and heaven in a 
wild flower, hold infinity in the palm of your hand, an eternity in an hour.' I always like that 
one because it's got a bit of mathematics   already in it um but let's apply n plus 7
to that: 'to see a worm in a grampus of sand blast,   and a he in a wild flu, hold inflow in the 
palmsie of your hangar, an ethos in a house fly.' Now that is kind of curious um but you can hear the 
same underlying poem there but just something very   new emerging out of there. So I think some 
of these you might say, well you know it needs   a little bit more of human creativity in it, but I 
think these are meant to be jumping off points to   to make you think it in new ways. And I- very 
exciting this kind of UoLiPo movement that they   were just looking at mathematical structures, 
how could they be used as a kind of shortcut  either to generating huge number of poems or or 
thinking about poems in a new way. And there's   uh another one which- uh not poetry, which somehow 
already has a mathematical character to it, but   um uh a novel which is using a really intriguing 
piece of mathematics. George Perec was a member   of the OuLiPo movement. People might know a book 
that he wrote which tried to avoid the letter e,   kind of a challenge to translate because it was 
in French and then to translate into English,   you know the translators got to do a lot of 
work. But he also wrote another book called 'Life,   a user's manual'. And this is an interesting 
book to use the structure of a Latin-Graeco   square. I mean they're a bit like sudokus, they're 
called Latin-Graeco squares because the idea is   can I put Latin letters and Greek letters such 
that, you know, say four Latin letters, four   Greek letters can I arrange those such as one 
of each Latin and Greek in each square but you   get no repeats on on columns and rows. And one of the 
challenges was, well, can you do a 5x5, 6x6, 7x7? And it turns out I think if 
I remember rightly that you can't do 6x6  but you can do a 10x10 and it was discovered 
how to do that and Perec took this Latin-Graeco   square, 10x10, and used it as the structure for 
a book with- well actually not a 100 chapters   because each box was going to be a chapter. He 
chooses 99, there's one of the squares missing   rather provocatively. And he puts not Latin 
and Greek letters but lots of different ideas,  10 of this thing and 10 of that thing, puts 
them in all of the boxes in a way that no box   in a row or column will have a repeat. And then he 
uses - again another mathematical idea - the knights'   move to move through all of these rooms and then 
he sets himself the condition he's got to write   a chapter involving all the things that are in 
that room that he's put using the the 10x10   Latin-Graeco square. So again here's mathematics being 
used as a structure and a constraint in order to   be able to push him into being inventive in a in 
a way that he might not have considered before. So   I think that's what's interesting, using 
mathematics to push you into new realms;   sometimes generating new things, sometimes 
restricting you, and using that you find   yourself discovering literature that you 
never would have thought of doing before.   (Professor, you're a mathematician, and I know you 
also like music and the arts and things like that,)  (have you ever used your own mathematics to create 
some kind of constraint on any art you were creating?) I- actually in music I have done, I worked 
with a composer and we wrote this quartet together   which was the idea that I thought mathematical 
proof was a bit like writing a piece of music. What   I did was to explain to Emily Howard, this composer, 
four of my favourite proofs from the ancient   Greeks and then she used those as a constraint for 
her own musical journeys. We ended up writing this   string quartet called 'Four musical proofs and a 
conjecture' which used sort of the constraint of   the logical journey of a mathematical proof as 
a way of inspiring new music. 
- (A lot of this stuff)  (that you've shared with me in this video like 
is fun but it does- you use the word absurd)  (which I think is a good word for it. Like, do you 
think this is like silliness? Is this doing a good)  (service to the art or is this like- are people 
going to watch this video and think 'what a load of nonsense'?) Well I do think the OuLiPo movement has 
certainly um had those criticism levelled at them,   and I think uh sometimes the things just 
generate- perhaps that sonnet you felt was   completely meaningless, but every now and again 
maybe it helps you to discover a real gem. And I   think if you look at people who use those kind of 
ideas of mathematical structures as an inspiration,  you realise that it can be sometimes very 
profitable. I mean take Calvino, Italian novelist,   who used a lot of these kind of generative ideas and 
he wrote a lovely book called Cosmicomics which   I recommend any scientists to read because they're 
full of wonderful little scientific ideas to   create literature. You know he's a a great novelist,
but he used mathematics as an inspiration for a   lot of his ideas. The other one I would suggest is 
Borges. Borges, he's one of my literary heroes and   he used lovely ideas in mathematics, for example 
'The library of Babel' is a story, short story, 10   pages. It makes this library that actually when you 
explore the library through the literature, through   the story, you realise that what Borges has created 
is a folded-up library that has three different   directions you can go in, you know, along the floor 
but up the floors as well, and he connects them all   together. When you connect these li- these floors 
and rooms together the shape of this library is   actually the surface of a four-dimensional torus. 
He wanted to explore these mathematical ideas   using his own language of storytelling. 
Sometimes it doesn't produce something   uh which is interesting but every now and again 
you get a gem which comes out of this.    (One last question Professor, you've talked a bit about how 
the arts borrow from mathematics and can benefit)  (from it and it can help get through writer's block; 
does it ever go the other way? Does mathematics)   (ever benefit from art?)
- Yeah I think that's a real 
challenge. I think, you know, I'm- I talk a lot to   different artists uh from different disciplines;
music, literature, theatre, and I'm always looking   for something interesting which has started in the 
arts and then stimulates something mathematically.   Actually the Fibonacci numbers are numbers which 
were first discovered by poets and musicians   because the Fibonacci numbers count the number of 
rhythms you can make with long and short beats; so   a poet that wanted to create a poem with long 
and short beats actually uh discovered these   Fibonacci numbers. So there's an interesting 
sort of different direction, rather unexpected.   But I actually have been inspired to look at a new 
mathematical structure in my kind of own area of   research which was stimulated by listening to a 
piece of music that was exploring the symmetries   of the cube combined with a Fibonacci kind of uh 
sequence. Sort of- it was doing symmetries but using   a Fibonacci rule to generate the next symmetry, 
and I'd never seen that before, a combination   of Fibonacci and symmetry. And so that piece of 
music, seeing this composer, Xenakis, use that   has actually set me off on a journey saying, 
well what about other symmetrical structures   and if you do this Fibonacci rule are there new 
things you can discover? So my own research has   actually benefited from uh from exploration by 
a musician about uh kind of mathematical ideas. You know maybe you've written millions of poems, 
or if you're like me you've made what feels like   millions of videos. One thing for sure is you don't 
want to lose all that stuff to a computer failure,   or maybe something even worse. A backup at home 
just isn't going to cut it, you need a backup   in the cloud; and for that I use Backblaze. Easy 
to use, great value for money. You know, nothing   gives me more peace of mind than seeing this 
little icon in the top right corner of my screen   knowing all my files have been constantly updated 
and backed up to the cloud. If the worst does   happen, don't worry, you can then get all your stuff 
back from the cloud. Or if it's a lot maybe you can   have it sent by post on a hard drive. You can also 
access any file anytime from, say, your mobile phone   which is a feature I have found very handy 
from time to time. Go to backblaze.com/numberphile to check them out, they have a free 
15 day trial with no strings attached so it can't   hurt to have a look. backblaze.com/numberphile, 
there'll be a link in the video description.  ...while sharks to let's, say potted shrimps are 
prone, to one sweet hour of bliss my memory clings.   Filching the lolly country thrift held 
save...he's gone to London how the echo rings.