(playful music) (objects crashing) (cat meows) - It's okay. (objects crashing) We won't be needing
these where we're going. The beast from MonsterLabo,
isn't the only fan-less PC on the market, but it is unlike anything
we have ever seen. These two heat sinks, one for the CPU and one
for the graphics card, make this chonker absolutely wild. They claim it can handle top tier CPU's like the Ryzen 9 5900 accent, Core i9 11900 K, *and* an RTX 3080 GPU on top of that completely passively. That means, that combined
with a passive power supply like this one, it should be able to
run the latest AAA games At like, 4K 120 FPS with no moving parts. ♪ upbeat techy music ♪ But are even these giant heat sinks enough to tame the beast? Will I even be able to build
this wacky thing to find out what even is this? Who is our sponsor? Pulseway is an all-in-one platform management tool that can help
protect your business from things like phishing and ransomware. Try it out for free today
at the link in the video description. ♪ Upbeat music ♪ (electronic swooshing sounds) You know, often times you can tell
when a case was designed by engineers, but I think it looks fantastic. MonsterLabo has definitely done something very different here. So upfront we've got a
good selection of IO. So four USB type A's, two of which are USB three USB
type C, separate front panel, audio ports - that's nice. And then when we flip around to the back, we've got... some thing... where, where does the back of the motherboard go? (package rustling) Ah. (plastic package rattling) Yes. conveniently running and
managing cables is my idea of a relaxing Saturday afternoon, but, it's still worth explaining
why we need to do this. So look at this: instead of using the usual, you know, screws into a back plate mount, the motherboard actually just goes onto these four threaded holes here, like by the CPU socket,
and then just hangs here. And the same is true of the graphics card, except that it goes on the other side, that way as much of the
internal space as possible, it can be dedicated to cooling. Then, well, VIO, since it's not attached
to the outside of the case in any way, has to use
all of these extensions. So, they just go into
the back here, a little, something like this, and then you screw them in on either side. Now that's all fair enough. We've seen cases before that
have used extensions to enable unique form factors or
unique functionality. And one thing I really like
about this one is unlike something like the
CORSAIR ONE, for example, MonsterLabo has made these
plates kind of modular. So there's just four screws that go in, and in the future, if you ever decided, oh, well look there's a
new display cable standard, or I want four network ports, You could actually pop this out, cut or 3D print a new
one, and pop it back in and you'd be good to go. Now, if you've ever built
a fan list PC before, then you'll already know that
the beast is going to be a heavy mama, but at a back
strain in 18.2 kilos, that's over 40 freedom pounds, without any hardware installed, you are going to want to build
this thing where you plan to use it. Or at the very least, at least remove the tempered
glass side panels while you and your friend transport it. Of course that assumes that
you and your friend actually trust the manufacturer
enough to order one of these. If you haven't heard
of MonsterLabo before, I'm not surprised. They've only been around since 2018 and they were born from the fiery
aftermath of Calyos NSG-S0 case ordeal. That saga was one that was
personally disappointing to me for a couple of reasons: One was that I just really
wanted to see the product come to life. It was *so* cool, but the second was that I feel terrible, that so many people backed
that Kickstarter project based on my positive coverage of it, only to end up swindled
out of their money. When the parent company Calyos wiped the project from their website, and took down their official Twitter, which was hilariously
subsequently re-registered by a pissed-off backer and turned
into this masterpiece. And there's similar sentiment
on our forum as well. So with that stench lingering over them, why would we even look at this case? The answer is because MonsterLabo, isn't Calyos. The team
did come from there, but the beast is actually
available and has shipped out to dozens of happy customers. So, it seems that the
team members that left did so because they actually
want to get cases to people. Not because they're a bunch of con artists looking for their next grift. Let's build it, then. (piece cracking) Then we want it to really
push this thing to its limits. So, naturally we went with
the Intel Core i9 11900K. That's, eight cores, 16 threads running it up to 5.3 gigahertz. But, more importantly, while it might be rated at
just 125 Watts of heat output, it's a big fat liar. This puppy can reach up to over 300 Watts, which means we'll probably have
to tame it a little to stay within the 150 Watts that
the MonsterLabo rates their CPU heat sink to
handle in passive mode. Then with our graphics card, we're going to be pushing way
past the 250 Watts that our integrated cooler is rated for with a Zotac RTX 3080 Trinity, that's expected to output 320 Watts. So, it's likely we're going
to need to do a little bit of tuning to get consistent
performance out of it. Now, the first step would be to install (metal plate clashing) the two optional 140 millimeter fans in the top here using these included 3D printed brackets. One of them would go here and
one of them would go here. But *our* goal, is to go for a fully
fan list, silent setup. So we're just going to be
putting the top panel back on and moving straight to power supply. Meet the Silverstone Nightjar NJ700. A 700 watt, 80 plus titanium rated power supply, that is both extremely heavy and fan free. MonsterLabo provides
all the mounting holes that you'll need so you
can mount your power supply either with the fan side (laughs) fan side, fan side this way or the other way. And then we just need
our four included screws. (screws and screwdriver rotating) Next up are any hard drives or
two and a half inch SSDs you might be installing. And I would definitely lean towards SSDs for a build like this because as soon as you
remove all the fan noise, all of a sudden that (ticking noises) of hard drives is going to be particularly noticeable. So, the way they mount is you just screw them onto
these brackets on one side, which sounds kind of sketchy (metal clanking) because you'd think it can kind of go like this, but because the bracket goes
in the front of the case, a little something like that, (metal clanking) all the way to the drive sits - there you go - vertically on the bracket and it's perfectly well supported. Which isn't to say that it
is perfectly manufactured. I think this is somewhere
where MonsterLabo could stand to improve. You can actually see that not one, but all four of these thumb
screws for the hard drive sleds are kind of cock-eyed, like they go in at an angle like this. It's a little bit easier to notice if I take the bracket out. It's a little thing, but just something that
MonsterLabo *could* do better considering the price
of the product. Anyway, we won't be needing this
bracket because we've opted for (metal clanking) a Crucial P5 m.2 SSD, which is going to give us
both the best performance, and of course, complete silence since
it has no moving parts. Then it's time to install
as much as we can on the motherboard ahead of time. Because once it's installed in the case, the back of the board is going
to be to the outside, right? So, we're not really going
to have much access to it. That means plugging in our 3600 megahertz crucial ballistics memory, as well as both our 24 pin and 8 pin CPU power connectors. So this is the whole assembly
that is going to turn around (grunts jokingly) and go right on there. Thankfully, DDR4 memory
doesn't need any kind of active cooling, but, that story might change with DDR5. (whistle) So make sure you're subscribed so you don't miss (ding) all the juicy details. Now, because we're not screwing the CPU cooler in front of the front, right? We have no access to it. The way it installs is a
little bit unconventional. So we put this bracket on here with the gap over here for the heat pipes. You can only see five of them, but there's actually 10 heat pipes on each of the copper bases. Now that our thermal compounds applied, we throw these black washer (metal piece dinks) (TV beep) Next we throw these black washers onto the standoffs and those do not do anything. (laughs) Just hang there loose. I don't know what's up with that. MonsterLabo, you've already got the spacer kind of built into the thing, the washers (in playful
accent) - they do nothing. They specifically tell
you use a clamp if needed. And I'm pretty sure they
mean wrench by that. Okay. No, that just killed it. Oh no. There's one extra. Oh, thank goodness! I can take off this stripped one. Oh wow. What they lost in brownie points
for their CPU cooler mount, they definitely got back
for this PCI express Gen4 riser cable. This is great, because it means that (clears throat) when we have a GPU installed on the other side of it here, we are not going to have to
go into the BIOS and manually set the link speed to GEN3 in order for the system to post. Which is what you have to do on a lot of these types of cases. There's a couple more things
that we should probably plug in before we go any further
like the front IO. This feels so weird plugging
in all the front IO before we actually put the motherboard in the case Like what even, what is life right now? I can't even understand it. Yup! I can see why MonsterLabo
recommends laying the case down before you do this. But, don't worry. I got this. I'm a "perssefional". Tolerances (heavy click) are a little - it like sanded, like, ground off part of the PCV jamming this in here. Don't worry. It's all
good. It's all good. Okay. So we're going to use these
white clear nylon spacers. We're going to put four springs,
four of our five springs. (giggles) Look, everyone just calm down. Holy bananas, that's a
lot of mounting pressure. (metal clanking) Don't worry. No, no, we got this. We got this. We got this. - Okay he's got it, he's got it. - I think it's all the way in. Now, the video plan calls for me to install the GPU next, but, I wanted to take a moment here and just kind of give you guys some thoughts on this
motherboard mounting mechanism. It's way more solid than I
thought it was going to be. I mean, the heat sinks
that it's mounted to, they're extremely rigid, but, this kind of install is
not for first-time builders. I think it's, it's very clear at this point that this is not a novice case because you can't see what you're doing. And even for me, if I flip this thing around,
you can see - this PCIE riser. It's really easy for this to
get jammed on these heat sinks or even any of these cables that are running across the motherboard. It would be simple for them
to get caught on each other or stuck on something that has a
limited amount of clearance, like the memory, for example, and break. So even though I am an
experienced builder, I actually almost ripped
off this USB-3 connector, when I was trying to hide this cable here. It's just (metal clank) a really tight space to work in. To make this next step
a little bit simpler, we pre-moved the cooler. That is to say we pre-removed it. If you're not sure what
the steps are for that, this is an older guide for how it's done, but the basic rules are the same: Start taking out screws
and don't stop til' everything comes off. And I mean *everything* because we even had to
take off the IO plate. So you just got your display
port and HDMI ports just hanging off the edge of the bare card. Now, obviously, we're going to need to attach a cooler to this, *but* it's not as simple as
just taking this and bolting it onto the cooler like we
did with the motherboard, because there's more
than just the GPU itself that needs cooling. We've got to deal with the memory. We've got to deal with the power delivery, which is actually on both
sides of the GPU on this card. And that is where this comes in. This little Javi is the TR-30x0 from EK. You can see it's got all the
contact points that we need. We're going to cover
those in thermal pads. And then the mounting procedure
is a little unusual here. Our heat spreader thing
needs to go on here. Oh, and this is hilarious. The screws that were included,
weren't the right length. So, we had to order some different ones from McMaster-Carr and something, something they all have
to be different lengths, something, something, et cetera. It doesn't matter. The point is, this goes in here. (chuckles) I mean, why assemble your GPU and it's
cooler before you install it in the case, when you can just install it
as part of the process, right? (sarcastically) - This makes
this all makes perfect sense. I got so distracted with this
unorthodox installation method that I forgot the basics. We're going liquid metal. (plastic bag rattling) I want to give it its best shot, okay? It's got one shot, one opportunity to impress the pants off me here. If I'm wearing pants at the
end of this video, they failed. But I will be wearing
these from LTTstore.com. If I removed those, I'm pretty sure it's some
kind of workplace violation. There you go! Cards installed! Now you screw it into the heat spreader. (laughs) If our GPU had a spring
mounted back plate, then we would use that. But otherwise it appears as
though we are actually supposed to use just these little black screws (screw rotating) with little plastic washers, and hard mount the GPU to the cooler. That is not the best way to mount a GPU. MonsterLabo also recommends
using a back plate. So we're using a Vector
XC3. This is hilarious. A fraction of the mounting
holes actually line up with anything useful with this installation. Now that it's in, it looks pretty clean. (chuckles) If you don't look too closely
at all the missing screws. Now, something to note is that you can install the GPU without using like a monolithic heat spreader like the one that we used from EK, you could just put little Ali Express special heat sinks on. Just
make sure if you do that, you put as big of ones on it as you can, and you use a high quality thermal epoxy like this one from Tech Ingredients. - I got you a burrito. (screwdriver sounds) - Oh! - There it is. - Thanks, James. (drilling noise) We're back. And it's way better than I expected. Okay. A - with the glass panels on how freaking sick does this thing look? B - we actually nailed the component selection for this bill. Because even if you don't have any fans, you can often end up with
like whiny electrical noise coming from the power
deliver on either your motherboard graphics
card or in many cases, your power supply. But here we are. So I've
got my mic right here. (microphone silence) Nothing coming out of the power supply. Despite the fact that we
are running a blender render on our Core i9 11900K. Now, we've tried it a couple
of different ways already. First, we tried without
multi-core enhancement enabled and it ended up settling
in around four gigahertz, all core and in the high 70 degrees. Very respectable, but
the 11900K can do more. So we're going at it again *this* time with multi-core enhancements enabled and we're able to manage
somewhere in the neighborhood of 4.3 gigahertz sustained on a completely passive cooler. Remember guys, this is a raging Inferno of a chip and it'll spike at over the 150 Watts that this
cooler is rated for. I'm actually really surprised
given that the 140 millimeter fans are not installed, how much air the natural convection in
this case manages to move. You can't really see air
movement with the thermal camera, but we'd probably still
see some interesting stuff. (metal board clicks) Oh, hi, whoa! Whoa, whoa, whoa,
wait, there you go. And conveniently the heat sink
is painted black so we can actually get a reading off of it. You can see it's running at about, just shy of 60 degrees. Meanwhile, the GPU heat sink is
hardly doing anything. We can fix that. Time for some FurMark. - Hit it with that furry Taurus! - (playfully) That furry mark You can already see that. See the heat pipes are
heating up they're orange now, but the thins themselves
are still kind of purple, (laughs) that's super cool. This was the product that
I wanted Calyos to release, but, only sort of. (metal sheet clanking) Because in some ways it's not as good. Like it doesn't have that
same convection based pumplus loop technology that Calyos is working on, but it's also way more practical. It doesn't weigh nearly as much.
And it's not nearly as big. Like this is something you might actually want in your house. Holy bananas. It's at a
hundred percent power limit. (fun techy music stops) It's at 71 degrees. Okay. Without liquid metal, (music continues) I sincerely doubt we would get
those same kinds of results. That's gotta be worth a solid,
like probably five degrees. But still, we got a game on it then. Now one thing to note is
we got an email actually, while we were filming this
informing us that this was the very first case off the line. So some of the problems that
we observed are ones that they're aware of and ones
that should be fixed. And one of them is that the
ethernet cable here, Colin, can I spend this for a sec here? - Uh yep, yep. (metal sheet clanks) - That wasn't me. (television beeps) - Nailed it. - The ethernet extension doesn't reach to the side where the ethernet sized hole in the back is. So there's some little things
that were not quite right on this sample, but I have faith. - They were technically
technically preemptive. - They told us about
it before we told them. So that's always a good sign
when the manufacturer knows. Yeah, let's go with cyber punk. (techy music continues) I mean, sure. Not a
particularly popular game, but certainly a heavy one to run. Seriously though, credit to Azeus, Zotac and Silverstone because, silent electronics is not that easy to do. And I can't guarantee that any
other combination of some of these parts would have the same
result because sometimes it can actually be the interaction
between a particular power supply in GPU that can cause
one or both of them to whine. Hmm. Now that's interesting. (mouse clicking) Yeah, this doesn't seem right. GPU hotspot temperature is too high. Hmmmmmmmmmmmmmm... - How hot? - 105. - (whistles) Whew! - So I think that might be
down to that hard mount. So let's have a look and
let's see what kind of contact it's making. We might need a little bit more
thermal interface material, (metal sheet clanks) and this is why we benchmark, see here? We did not have enough
liquid metal on here. And see, it's just, it's not even, it's not even close. It also just may not be
in the cards for us to go liquid metal because of
the tight tolerances here. Like these thermal pads
might be interfering with (claps) the graphics card, pressing
up against it enough. It's worth a shot. It's worth a shot. I'll try one more time. And if we end up with
kind of weird behavior like that again, then we're going to go to a more conventional thermal compound. We have removed the EK back plate. It just did not have enough screws in it. We've put the stock back plate back on. It just required a little
bit of creative snipping, and we've got our result. The result is MonsterLabo
knows their product because they rated the GPU
cooler at around 250 Watts, and that's all it'll do. So if you want to get into
Afterburner and really fine tune your voltage frequency curve, you can probably get better
results than if you just lead the card at stock. But if you do leave the card at stock, you're going to have to turn
your power limit down to about 70%, which is going to put you around 1 gigahertz, which is really not the full
potential of an RTX 3080. So, we compromised. We put a Noctua fan running at about 800, 850 RPM on the GPU side. And now we're able to hit around 1100 to 1200 megahertz. Let's see if Cyberpunk
runs a little better. Should we go all the way
to Ray Tracing Ultra? We're doing it, we're doing it. We're going to Ray Tracing
Ultra. We got an RTX 3080. This is more like the
gaming experience that I was expecting from this. We're managing right in
the neighborhood of 60, 55 FPS average. And then our lows are
right in the 50 FPS range, which on a G sync display is
going to be perfectly smooth. That's a really good gaming
experience for a more sightseeing oriented game like this one. It's not what I would
want for a Twitch shooter, but considering that this
thing is still, hold on, let me get up on, (stool drags) let me get up on here
and get my microphone right next to the exhaust. (music stops) (footsteps) How you doing buddy? Still extremely quiet, nearly silent. I'm pretty happy right now. (adjusting stool) Ohy! Temps are around 80, 80 degrees. Actually, you don't, we can probably even turn
down that fan a little bit. That's awesome. GPU powers 312 Watts. ♪ Techy music ♪ The fan is, the fan is worth it. Especially if you go for
a super over spec build like with an RTX3080. And that's kind of the best
conclusion for this case, isn't it? It's not what I wanted. What I wanted was for it to be fan-less. No, what I really wanted was for Calyos to not screw over the
PC building community, but at the end of the day, at least I can still be happy
with what I ended up with. This is an utterly unique
product and there's just no other way to get this kind of
silent gaming experience. (music stops) Just like there's no other
way to find out about our sponsors: Squarespace. Need a website
but don't have the know-how? Squarespace makes it easy. There's a wide selection of
award-winning templates and they're all optimized for mobile, so they'll look great on any device. You can create members-only
content for extra revenue using Squarespace's member areas, and you can grow and engage
your audience with the powerful and easy to use email campaign system. If you ever need additional help, Squarespace offers webinars,
a full series of help guides, or you can contact their
24-7 customer support via live chat and email. So don't wait. Get started today by
visiting squarespace.com/LTT and you can get 10% off
your first purchase. (upbeat techy music) If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe check out one of the
only alternatives that exists. It's this weird custom made
thing that we got from China that makes the price of
the Monasterial beast look um, very reasonable.