What is your mega-favourite number? By which I mean what is your favourite
number that is bigger than 1 million? A lot of people have favourite numbers
which are small and that's fine! I've got nothing against
favourite numbers like 7 or, even better, 17. But as well as your regular
small favourite number I've been working with a bunch
of other mathematical YouTubers to encourage people to also choose
a mega-favourite number. There are some amazing numbers
which are bigger than 1 million which deserve more attention. Some of them are pretty exciting. For example, here is an email
I got sent in about a week ago and this is pretty typical
for the sort of stuff I get sent. Someone says here,
"I think you like rare integers." That is correct.
"Here is one I discovered today." So this integer is
less than two weeks old. It is, wow, 1,169,809,367... I'm not gonna read the rest of it. Ends in 36,911. It's a pretty exciting-looking number,
it's definitely big. I can confirm, without doing
any additional calculations it is bigger than 1 million,
and it is the lowest prime number p
for which the tan of p is greater than p. I did verify this claim,
well I went onto WolframAlpha and asked it if this number was prime. And it was able to say it was. I have no idea how
WolframAlpha is able to check the primality of a number
that size that quickly and then I double-checked
that the tan of the number, in radians, is bigger than the number,
and sure enough, it's about four times bigger.
It checks out. We'll come back to primes later on. First of all, I just thought: can I find any integers
for which this is true? So I put together some
terrible Python code, as is my way. It's on GitHub, I'll link to it below. And I made one concession: I allowed for
the absolute value of the tan function so if I got a very very big
negative number that was good enough for me. And these are the numbers
which came out of my code. You can see actually,
I'm glad I included the negative cause the first bunch,
that's what you need to do. So the 52,174, that gives you a number
which is bigger than that if you take the absolute value. However the first positive answer,
you don't get any positive values for n, for which this works, is 260,515. Although you can tell by the five,
that's not prime. Don't worry, we'll loop back around. But I guess the first question is: should we care? And the easy way to determine that
is just to go on to The On-line Encyclopedia
of Integer Sequences. I put in the sequence
1, 260,515. Sure enough, there was an entry for it. Someone has made a list of those numbers. I say someone. I had a look
at the name at the bottom. And it's the same person
who sent me the email. So there you go, this is THE expert
when it comes to cases of the tan of a number
being greater than the number. Also, fun side bonus fact:
there is a super-list with more values but instead of taking the absolute value
of what you get out of the tan function like I did, they take the absolute value
of the number going in so you can put in negative values of n. So there you go, isn't that fun. Fine. It's in the OEIS.
It's technically interesting. But is it REALLY interesting? So just to recap what we're
actually looking at here. This is the Real Number line and if you plot the other kind of A-list
celebrity trigonomic functions: sine, starts at 0 and then goes back to 0
every pi along the Real Number line. And cos, starts at 1, goes through 0
at half pi, then every pi-th after that. These: very well-behaved functions. They just go between 1 and -1
and they don't go racing off anywhere. Tan however, if we add that--
phwomm, okay. And it's gone. I mean,
it might come back, I dunno. So anyway-- woah! Oh my goodness,
you're not gonna believe what's coming. [laughs] That's amazing!
So there's the tan function. You get a little bit, and then you--
oh no! Nooo! No! You're not gonna...
hang on, here it comes. [laughs] That's amazing! Right so, tan--
oh, an email. Just been told, got another email in. That's um... "Hi Matt..." Very nice for a viewer
to write in during the video. "Enjoying the video--"
See I just love stuff like this. "However, this bit with the tan function
is getting old quickly. I don't think it's quite as funny
as you think it is." Well, thank you very much for your input, however, I think you'll find that-- Wahey! There it goes! The tan function
continues to be hilarious. That said, we get this
explosive tan behaviour because tan is sine divided by cos, so whenever cos equals zero,
tan is dividing by zero and that's why we get an asymptote
that goes off to... it's undefined. However it's extremely big
on either side of it. Where it hits the axis
is always a multiple of pi or rather it's something and a half pis because the first 0 of cos is at half pi and then an additional pi
for every subsequent one. So what we're looking for here are values of n,
which are going to be integers so by definition, they're not going to
exactly be on one of these asymptotes. But if they're close enough, we will get
a very large value out of tan. And because we need to be bigger than
the size of the number we're putting in what we're saying is,
the further we go that way, so the bigger our real number
we're putting in to the function the bigger the result has to be. So what we're looking for here
are integers n such that they're very close to pi on 2,
plus some whole number k multiple of 2 pi with the test of the tan of the number
being greater than the number as our threshold
for if it impresses us much. [Shania Twain's "That Don't
Impress Me Much" plays] But what about the prime-ness of this? Because on one side,
we've got trigonometry. On the other side, we've got primes. Do they have any relation to each other? Does the prime-ness of the number
make a difference to us trying to find this
ridiculous property? And I don't know.
Even Jacob in the email's like: "I dunno if the prime-ness
is relevant or not." They just thought it was fun
to try and find a prime one. So if anyone has any insight
into that, let me know. But I suspect, it's unrelated.
It's just an extra bonus fact. This is just a weird mash-up
of two different bits of maths for no reason other than, why not. And finding primes
is not particularly easy. We can look at
the density of prime numbers which very roughly, up to some value N, all the numbers smaller than it,
give or take one in every natural log N of those numbers is prime. Which is to say, because the
natural log of 10 is about 2.3 or about 2, if you count the number of digits
in your number, in base 10 if you double it, it's roughly
a 1 in that many chance that it's prime. To a rough approximation. Give or take. 2.3 if you want to be fancy. So the number that Jacob found, it has got 46 digits, so you need to multiply 46 by 2.3 and it's a 1 in that chance. So I'm prepared to say
it's roughly 1 in 100. About 1% of numbers
at that size are prime. There you go. So that now leads us to the question: how did Jacob find it? Jacob found that prime by... checking a lot of numbers. So Jacob says they've actually
found 500 more integers which work just for n not being prime and they're in the process of
being approved to go on the OEIS. So, any day now, apparently
they're going to appear there. That's pretty amazing. And then they just checked
if any were prime and they were amazed to find that one was. And they reckon no-one else
is going to be able to find one. They compare the chance
of finding another prime where the tan of the prime
is bigger than the prime to being similar to looking for
an odd perfect number which is exceedingly unlikely,
potentially impossible. So wow, that is...
that's thrown the old calculator down. Can anyone find another prime? Jacob thinks you can't. That is why this is currently
my mega-favourite number. But what's your mega-favourite number? If you want some inspiration, you can check out all the other videos
other YouTubers are making. James Grime is putting together a playlist
with all the videos including their mega-favourite number. We've also got Brady on Numberphile, Grant of 3Blue1Brown fame, and the list just keeps on going. We've got Katie Steckles,
we've got Eddie Woo, there you are, good old Eddie. We've got Bobby Seagull
and Susan Okereke. They've done a video
and there's loads more. So check it out. And if you choose your own
mega-favourite number, any number over a million
which you want to make a video about, you've got one month. And if you use the hashtag #MegaFavNumbers
we will add it to the playlist. It's an open playlist.
We wanna get as many videos about numbers bigger than 1 million
as possible. So if you make one in the next month
we will put it in there. And do check out the playlist. As well as discovering some cool new 
mega big numbers you may also discover some
amazing mathematical YouTubers. There's loads of great videos in there. I highly recommend having a look. And of course, do make a video. With all of us working together we can finally give
some big respect to big numbers. Thanks for watching. What? One more email? Really? But no-one's watching any more! It's only the hardcore
End of the Video Gang. So anyway, last email: "Matt, very much enjoyed
the video about trigonometry." Thank you very much. "You should do more things
involving trig." Okay so,
that is definitely worth checking out and you know what, I might!