- I think it's fair criticism
to say that the last time we looked at the house here, we're
really focused on my stuff, the speakers, the wires, the
gizmos, the power supplies, and we glossed over the
painstaking work that you and the other people that I think helped you as far as I can tell you did
most of it (he chuckles). To make sure that this place
is gonna look freaking awesome. So we are gonna take a
look through the new house and we are going to let Yvonne
tell the story this time. And you know, it's gonna be a good story
because it involves owls. - Ah, okay. - Oh, and I have some wire and speaker and power supply stuff to
update you guys on as well. So we're definitely gonna do that too. We're gonna do it with our sponsor. - Glass wire. Are you lagging out while gaming? Use glass wire and see what apps are wasting your
bandwidth and causing your games to lag. Get 25% off today using offer
code Linus at the link below. - Oh. (piano upbeat beats) - Wait, what? (person laughs) Okay. We're replacing that door handle. - I mean, how did I break? - Okay. Let's start in
the master bathroom. - Yeah. Watch your step. Brandon. - Why did you put that right in this.? - Because I literally dropped it. And so I didn't feel
like picking it up again since we're starting over here. The bathroom layout was horrible before. So this little room here had
a shower and a toilet in it and it's tiny. So we redid the layout in here
besides everything being pink and gold. Now it's all gray, which
some people don't like that, but we like it (she chuckles). We have this really nice
one and a half person tub. - Which one of us is the half person? - I think you're both 0.75. - I'm pretty sure that's
not how you're supposed to use the tubs. - It's gonna be awesome.
Come try it out with me. - That that's a good sized tub. - It is. - That's not bad actually. - And the reason we
went with one and a half instead of a two person
is because if you did want to just have a bath by yourself, it's not gonna take an incredible
amount of water to fill, you know what? It was actually really
difficult to find faucet that are high flow. And so
finding something that was. - Oh, it's hooked up. (people reacting) - Okay. (people laughing) - Thanks. - So we have what I think
are beautiful countertops, but Jake thinks are dirty. - Look. It looks dirty. - It is not dirty. That looks like stone. Actually, all of the sinks
had to be reinstalled because I think the sink guy
was just having a bad day. - I thought I was having
a really good day. Like, like off kilter. - Yeah. - I mean, worst comes worse. You could always just
paint over this, right? - Oh my gosh. You cannot be serious. (person laughs) My favorite thing in here
is the double shower. When we moved into our first
place I saw and I was like, that is weird. Who does that? And then do you think it (computer beeps), we used it and loved it. And now we just couldn't go back. - And I don't know, maybe you guys are sitting
here thinking that's weird, but the way that I see it,
families who shower together. - So we went from a rinky-dink shower to this awesome double shower. - Your walk-in has like stuff in it. - Really? - Yeah. - Oh, so nice. - Did we re we reused
the old stuff, right? - Yeah. - Yeah. This looks like
you'll have enough room to store your "things" that you have. - Yeah. - New "things". - Yeah. And then we still
have the attic access in here. We'll pull down right into here. - Is the clearance good enough? - Yeah. Ooh, that was
close to this though. - Oh. - You just have to be careful. (feet padding) Do you wanna go up there? - No, you don't wanna come up here. There's no lights or anything. Oh, wait. There's a light and it's
not powered right now. - Anyway, the tile on
here is the same tile as in shower except
the non glossy version. So it's not slippery. Yeah. It's really cohesive
and nice and open. I love it. We're just missing the mirrors
and the light fixtures. - And the TV. - Okay. We are not, we're
not putting a TV in here. - Yes, we are. - Linus never uses it in the, okay. - That's just Internet. - That's just so that he
could have the option of, but that doesn't mean you
have to exercise that. - That's a video. - Counterintuitively, we
actually made the master bedroom smaller as part of our reno. - We expanded the bathroom
so that we could have the double shower. And then we just, we didn't feel like we
needed as much space in here. - Just sleep in here. - Yeah. - That's it. Aw (he chuckles). And other. - Hey look, they changed the knobs. - Oh yeah. Okay, cool. Yeah. They're crooked. - They are crooked right now. So I hope they fix that. - Yeah. Well you just
tighten them and then. - Okay. - All my stuff's in too. - Yeah. - So this is where all of my clothes that I will ever own will go. - The number of hours we spent
looking at floor colors and just painstakingly, trying to find the right
thing was horrible. - And it was mostly pointless anyway, because there's so much variation
from one plant to the next that basically every test patch we did, it's kind of meaningless. - I originally saw this color
when we put down a whole bunch of them and everyone was like,
no, no, no, that's horrible. That's horrible. And I was like, ah, and what happened was they
hadn't put the baseboards on. So there were still pink all
around the room. And so it, it actually changed
the color of the floor. Just that little bit. - So we have actually sanded
this floor, painted it, this color, sanded it again
and painted it back this color. - You know what? Carol was amazing. He only charged us for
the product for worth. - Shut up. We should definitely tip 'em. - At least the floor doesn't look dirty. - I love these. These are
one of my favorite things, but for some reason they left
all the stickers on when they installed them. These ones are no big
deal, but come over here. How am I supposed to reach that one? - With the ladder? - I don't wanna do that. - Oh yeah. The glass is totally
crooked on this one. Look. - Yeah. I don't know. Maybe the light guy was
having a bad day too. (person laughs) So this give you some idea of
the kind of fixtures that were in the house before. Linus
wanted me to paint it. Oh and put it back up. - Wait, this is cool. This was a really fun project. We did it with help from
Colin cause we don't know how to use our own laser cutter, but each of the kids'
rooms has a bespoke sign. (person laughs) That's laser cut wood. This
one is our youngest daughter. Ghosts only was her request
for her room. She likes ghosts. - What? - Ghosts only literally glows in the dark. It's not gonna get dark
enough in here to be Ellusian. - You might. I, I can almost. - See. Cool right. - Inside her a room. She
actually wants a forest of cats. I, I don't really know how
those two things go together. I mean. - She's five. - Each kid got to pick
their own accent color. So she picked purple. And if I
can get help opening this up, we'll be able to see the forest of... - Woo good gravy. What is this? How many of them are there? - Lots. It's supposed to be a forest. What do you think? - Just wait until you have to
take it down and four years. - I don't know if this a very good idea. - Oh. - Oh my God. Here. Should we take one off? Oh no. Don't do. - It fine. It's fine. Don't worry. Don't worry. I'm not gonna stick it to the wall. Oh, it's very staticky. - I think they are
supposed to be removable. So if you wanted to just so to
be like that and then there's gonna be Kitty's that go on the trees. - Thanks for holding this so
that I can put it back on. - Yeah. - Maybe we should mix some
tech into this. Hey look. Access points. We actually hung these before
and had to take them all down for the paint, but they're up again? - They're up. - Okay. You're actually gonna
have to take it back down because they painted the ceilings, the wrong color and it
needs to be repainted. - You're you're kidding, right? - No. It's light blue. Look at them. - Did somebody tell the contractor because they hung out the cameras? - Yeah, I guess... - Like literally everything. - They literally put the wrong
product on every surface at this entire house before I
came in and was like, "Hey, you put the wrong product on everything. - Even though I told you multiple times. - In other news, these
cameras are amazing. These are G4 Bullets. Back when we did a, our current house, there was G4 Pros and then
there was the G3 Flex. So you had your 4k and
then you had your 1080P. You had your AI detection
events and you had your no AI detection. This is your middle ground.
Look at that latency. Huh? Not bad. - Oh, you know, it's funny. The contractor that installed these, when I gave of him access to
it, to like position them, he was like, wow, these look really good. I was like, what do you usually install? - Most people get garbage
child number two's room. Her request was a kitty, dragon, bears, the moon, mountains, trees. And we, I think successfully
incorporated all of those things. The butterfly was added
at the last minute. (he laughs) - She wanted a mountain scene
on the outside because she wanted to trick people. And
then when you go into her room, it's actually underwater
themed. She picked a bright, bright blue for her wall. And what we're gonna do
actually is sponge it to make it look more oceany. Cause
right now it's just one salt. - Get some greens in
there and stuff like that. - We also got these really
cool stickers that are glue low in the dark. So during the
day they looked just like, whatever, see kelp and oh
man, I'm drawing a blank. What are those called
jellyfish? Thank you. And then at night they... - Whale. - And then she picked her own chandelier, which I think is amazing. - It suits her so well. And of course clip speakers
in every single room. They're all in now. - I think there's 40 speakers. This place is gonna be like, there's like another six outside. - 46 Speakers. And that doesn't
include the theater room. - And the amps that are
gonna need to power them. - Holy crap. How many amps are we gonna? - It's content, man. You'll have to get
subscribed. And we'll see. - The boy is a certified gamer.
He asked for gaming themed. And then for whatever reason, Mike Wasowski from monsters
Inc, which he's not even. - Like. And he was one of the ones
that was actually consistent. He wanted an orange sign and
the accent in his room is actually gonna be orange. We're gonna be doing the
accent in his room. He wants a, a mural of like a badminton
player hitting a shuttle. - That's pretty cool. - Yeah. So we're gonna have
fun doing that together. And then he wanted an owl. So. - So the theme fell apart a little bit, handcrafted on the cricket cry cut. - Cricket. Cricket. - [Yvonne] Yeah. It's super cute. - When it was on the ground earlier, I thought it was a penguin. - Cell repeater. I noticed my
cell reception wasn't crap. - I did a speed test
earlier. I got like 50 down. I've never gotten more than
like two down in this house. - When are you guys changing
the smoke detectors? - You guys? - Yeah. - Gave me electricians? - You. - Oh and we did change the lights up here. This entire house was like OG fluorescence that were 150 Watts, a bulb. There's like 90 bulbs in this house. If you had everything on. - Oh, speaking of efficiency, (clapping hands) remember how the power
generation and consumption of the solar appeared to be absolutely identical. When we showed it to you guys. - This was a little sus. - Well, it turns out
the roofing contractors and their infinite wisdom
wanted to save us $354. - No, no, no. It was 279. - $279 on a six figure
job by not installing the component that monitors
household energy consumption. - Yeah. I even sent them an email. Like I think something's broken. (Linus laughs) They're like, oh it wasn't
in the scope of work. What? But anyways it works now. Yeah. Actually you made
more to the than you used. - Yeah. - Yeah. Look at that. So you produced 37.2 and consumed 25.6. - So net exported. - Oh yeah. - Yeah. You would think this would be the big highlighted one. That's what everyone would wanna know. - So basically you made a dollar. - Hey, wait. I thought this was my tour. We skipped an entire floor. - Should we go check out the office? - Can you try to break less things. - Wait did you just pull it off again? - This is new. I think
since you guys last saw it, this is our built-in bookshelf. Linus desk is gonna be somewhere here. So in the backdrop we'll
be able to decorate this really nice. He had every single shelf
in here wired individually for RGB, which Jake told
me was just insanity. - It's not insanity the
way that you did it. - I didn't do it. - Is insanity. Well, let me just explain to the audience. Every single shelf has
wiring, which is great, but every single shelf only has two wires. So you have to put the controllers
on each fricking shelf, except rather than using
a proper controller. Like when we could control with Z wave, Linus wants to use like PC RGB
controllers that you control with a remote so he can
individually change them all. Except as soon as you click the remote, they're all just get change. - Oh, just put a dog, a dog. Don't lick yourself. Cone on it. Just always. - It's not like the signal
bounces or anything. - I don't think there's
anything new to tell the people about this room. - The ceiling in here
is the wrong color too. So we'll get that fixed. - Oh yeah. Wow. - Oh watch your head. Okay. I would like you right
then and there now to admit that I was right, this is too low. Cause you just almost ran into it. - My whole bottom self
is gonna phase right through the table. I but hit my face on. - Who's gonna have a
chair like right here. - What he would do is you
would sit down here and then he would lean over for
something and it'd stand up. That was the problem. - That's true. I've done that many times.
Then the wifi in this place, all bars all the time. - It's not as fast as my wifi, but. - Ooh, I everything's in the pantry now. If you had asked me to
take apart some, you know, in closet shelving and then
wait a year and try and put it back to can. (people laughing) - This, this is supposed to change, right? - It's supposed to
originally, but you know what? I actually kind of like
it, it goes with the blue. It's not very modern though.
That's the only issue. - It's not so bad when near
here and then you back up and you're like, whoa, brand
new stainless appliances. - Honestly, my bigger
issue is the sharp corners on this countertop here. - Oh. - Yeah. - Can you stop? - This was actually
incredibly difficult to find because we used all of
the old kitchen cabinetry. This is not a standard sizing anymore. This is a 27 inch instead of a 30 inch. And this was one of the only
double ovens I could find that was that size. - Double ovens. Yeah. - Hey, you laugh. But double ovens, pretty sick. I mean, you don't wanna have
to like oven your dessert. How awesome does the family room look? These are gonna be black. (people laughing) And then this is pretty much
done, it looks like a 65 inch. What are we going for this one? - I think an A90J would be sick. - So 65 inch, A90J and then I
think we're either gonna reuse the old Sonos arc or that Sony A9HT or whatever it's called
the four piece surrounding. - Yeah, we should definitely do that. - I think we should do that. - Yeah. - Did Jake tell you about
how we tested all the blinds and they were great, but the problem is that the
blinds are not the right color. (she chuckles) - See these two colors. Those
are supposed to be the same. I sent them a picture of the swatch next to what they sent us. And they're like, oh
yeah, different dial lots. It's not even close. Wait, what is that? What happened here? (person laughs) - It's not my fault. - There's still things
that need to be changed. Like the knob and the light fixture. Unfortunately this cannot be changed. I am a little disappointed about this. - You know what? I don't mind it. - It's less bad than the kitchen. - The kitchen is atrocious. - Yeah. That one is weird. - It's a really big mirror. - And they put holes in all
like almost all of their mirrors to have in mirror, light fixtures. - They knew, okay, nevermind. I was gonna make a joke for good. - One thing we are not doing
smart is we are actually reusing the original
appliances because they're from like the early
nineties, late eighties or something like that. And apparently they're
absolute tanks compared to the washers and dryers they today. The old owner who was
meticulous told us that every time she's had
them regularly serviced, which of course she does, the
texts have come in and said, you need to never throw this thing away. They do not build them like this anymore. And she was like, "Okay", so we're just gonna keep 'em. - They painted the ceilings in here without changing the light fixtures first. So that's, I don't know. - I must emphasize the actual
quality of the finished work has been very good, but our painters are just so inefficient. You as a non painter might
look at this and go, wow. They did a really great
job of taping everything. But taping things is not
the be all and end the all because if you tape things, you still have to put in
the work to cut carefully because otherwise what
happens is you gun up the tape with paint like this, you
leave it for a month or two. And when you rip, rip this paint up, unless you go by with like an
Exacto knife and cut the edge of the tape with a knife, you're gonna pull this
up and it's gonna rip up pieces of the wall. They
would've been better off. Just cutting it by hand and
fixing with touch ups. Sorry cutting with a knife
versus cutting in with a three and a half inch
angle brush paint here made me so angry. Theater room time. - I need to warn you as we go in here, do not touch or move or
play with any of that. - Oh but it's here? - Yes. - The idea behind this is we can use it to cable manage from the closet
there over to the me room. And we could use it to just
like stash all the ugly cables and stuff in there. There's gonna be power in here. So if a friend brought over a
PlayStation six or something, you could just plunk it here. There'll be an extra HDMI
cable to the receiver. That's just like in a hole
in here and just pull that up and you're ready to go. - But dude, it is so dark in here now. - Yes. Thank you. Linus told me. - This is not dark enough though. - Oh my gosh. (Linus shouts) - This is like, this is gray. Why is it gray? - Because I was told that
gray that's was fine. - But guess what? Jake and I have a, already reached out to
the makers of black 3.0, (man laughs) and we are gonna take
it to literally avoid. Yvonne, I don't know why, but she was super into the
idea of kind of brown carpet. - I was not... - Oh that's awful. - I thought it was okay. - Oh yeah. You know what? That's awful. - We're gonna be in a black void. Does it really matter at that? - Well, it could be more blacker. - I don't know. I just give
up, this is your guys' room. Have fun. - Cool. Let's change the carpet. - I don't know if I wanna spend the money. - Cool. I'll change the carpet. - Oh my gosh Jake. - Jake and I are debating
the desk colors in here. He wants to do black legs,
white tops with black chairs, with red lining. And I'm thinking that, that sounds horrible. - Well, the walls already blue. I do agree. We should actually
like dye the, the thread. - Okay. You told me it
wasn't gonna be a big deal. When I suggested. - I thought we were getting
the same chairs as Sarah. - Yeah. Well. - Those look awesome. - She veto that that's on my face. - What? - Because it was white cloth
and the cat is just gonna tear that apart. - I think we should go natural wood finish for the desks in here. - Ooh. - I'm all for it. - I'm just not sure it's
gonna go with everything else that's already picked. Are, are we actually gonna die to threads? - Sure. - What? - I don't care how long it
takes. I'm not gonna be doing it. - You about to wait. - What? I'm not too. - Okay. Do you wanna
talk about your finishes in the downstairs kitchen? - All of furniture down here
and the accent late fixtures and things like that
are all gonna be darker. So I think that's gonna
tie it all together and look really good. - There was a big kind of
hand ringing stress moment. When the general contractor
was like about to show us the fridge that we had chosen. - Do you know why? - Because it sticks out too much? - Yeah. - It doesn't stick out. - I don't think it sticks away. - Well... - Do you think this works? Okay. I'm not a huge fan of
the wall color down here. Linus really likes blue
tinted stuff. For some reason. - It's white. - It's white. - Which is what you said you liked. - There's a blue undertone for sure. - There's an undertone.
Where's your undertone now? - It is. You can see it. It's so clear. - It looks blue undertone here and yellow undertone over here because the only difference
is the light bouncing off it. - It's like this whole thing
here is blue undertone. - I actually think the
white was the wrong call. Cause like that's... - You are the one that suggested white. - I said white most places. Can't even see the moldings
cause it's just so pertly white. - I wanted blue. There's
an explanation for this. I was reading the
documentation for our receiver and it seemed like it was possible to have two different inputs
going to two different zones, both audio and video simultaneously
through this receiver. - You can't do that. - You can just not at 4k 120. - Oh well that's awesome then. So I'm hoping that I can have
the Xbox and the gaming PC that powers the theater
room and the VR gaming space and the TV there be the same one. And then just share them
by using the AV receiver. Remember how I had promised
you that like the controller set up and everything
would not be complicated. If we do it this way, it
will be very complicated. - Yeah. I figured. - That is my personal... - It's kind of assumed. - That's my personal tech tips guarantee. Also they screwed up the rack power. It's supposed to be 130 amp, 208 volt and then one
just regular 120 volt. And they're both just 120 volt. - What? - Cause Eden sent us this
amazing, like five kilowatt UPS. - Oh really? - But it's 208 gold. - We can head outside
and I'll tell you why I lost my cool with the
pool contractor in a moment. But this gives you an idea of
how the good these fireplaces can look. If you paint
the gold things black. So if you still have one
of those gold fireplaces, all it takes is a spray bomb. And about like 20 minutes and
it can look that much better. - This is a big ass hole. - $10,000 is what they told
us a hole like this costs. And then they said, "But stuff can happen. You might find a big rock
or you know, whatever, a fossilized dinosaur. And
it could a, the cost of it. But we'll let you know."
So then we got a bill. The whole is completely dug and they go, "Yeah, it was 25 grand.
So we're billing you with our 2022 rates, not the
rates that we had, you know. - Can't change your rates
after quoting someone. - Well you don't have a
quote if you don't have an agreed upon rate. Anyway, to figure out how deep
we wanted to go for the pool. I actually conducted an
extremely scientific survey. - You called James while
I was sitting next to him. And he was like, "I
have no idea, who cares, how deep a pool is?"
That's what he told me. You should be able to dive.
I'd say like eight, 10 feet. - You know what? The eight footers lost when the
kids are having a pool party or whatever. Not everyone wants to like
tread water the whole time. So we settle on six and a half. - So the kids are still gonna
have to paddle the whole time. - But you're able to have an even slope. So a lot of people can
actually stand all the way up to like the two thirds point. - Nobody can dive. - I mean, I can dive. - It's a hot tub. - Please. - Big bathtub. - I thought you could dive
in six and a half feet. - Well, I can. - What? - Well, you don't dive straight in. - Yeah. But still. - Some people just need to
learn how to swim properly. - Some people just... (man shouts) - Do you wanna see who
finishes for the pool? - Are they gonna be dirty?
Like the countertop? - This is the band. That's
gonna go all the way around. And then it's going to be
the stone scape material all down the side and under. Yeah. And then the hot tub is gonna
be these two. It's not dirty. Come on. It looks nice. - Yeah. That one looks pretty dirty. - Oh, wait. No, we're not done yet Jake. Check this out. - Don't stand on the (machine beeps). - We haven't shown these yet. - Thanks clips. - Total of six of these. And they actually sound
like kind of great. It's gonna be awesome. - We're just gonna put them
all in one zone, right? - Oh wait, wait. - Maybe one zone up
there and one zone deck. (machine rewinds) Okay. Whatever, it's your house. I don't care. - Three zones. - Have over it. - And three segues to our sponsor. - And this is a Segue to our sponsor. - Do I have to do it really? - Yeah. - Okay. I, to segue to our sponsor. - You know, segues to our
sponsor paid for this house, sponsors like. - Sponsors like. - No, no, we actually have to... - Fresh books. Now I'm gonna go ahead
and guess that you're not an accountant probably, which is why you're
gonna love this software. It's built for freelancers
and small business owners who don't have time to waste
on seeing and accounting and payment processing. In fact, Fresh Books users can
save up to 11 hours a week by streamlining and
automating pesky admin tasks like time tracking, falling up on invoices and expense tracking with features like the new digital bills and receipt scanner. Over 24 million people of
used Fresh Books and love it for its intuitive dashboard and report. It's easy to see at a glance exactly where your business stands
and it's even easier to turn everything over to your
accountant come tax season. 94% of Fresh Book users
say, "It's super easy to get up and running". And
with award-winning support, you're never alone. Try Fresh
Books for free for 30 days, no credit card required by
going to freshbooks.com/linus to get started. So what are you gonna
do with 11 hours a week? - If you guys enjoyed
this video, go check out. I don't know. - It's the solar one. - Yeah. Go check out the,
the solar install video. That one was pretty sick. I can't believe we made
money on our energy today. - A dollar? - A dollar.