I make a pretty big deal about how awesome our merch is and in fairness, it is, lttstore.com But even I can't help but feel a little bit of small PP energy when I see other youtuber merch that is this Freaking cool in front of me are four gaming computers and a special black box that allows me to effortlessly seamlessly and nearly instantly Instantly switch between them with the exact same monitor keyboard and mouse set up. I'm sorry what here watch I'll do it again That is so freaking cool and Of course it would come courtesy of Wendell from level one techs. I just have a few questions Wendell Hey, what exactly is this thing? Why did you create it and what makes it so flippin special? I mean, what is the difference between youtuber merch and just an actual tech product at this point? I don't know. Maybe I can get the answer from our sponsor Nexigo their new Aurora Pro 4k projector features three HDMI 2.1 inputs a maximum screen size of 150 inches and Support for Dolby vision Nexigo learn more at the link down below everything about this product is just Delightfully Wendell from the plain white packing box with the simple not even glossy adhesive backed laser printed label on it to the unimaginative yet Amply descriptive name. I mean, what is it? If not 8k DisplayPort 1.4 KVM switch with USB 3.2 Gen 1 that's what it is Right and this is everything it does which when you dig into it is not padded That is a freaking lot. But first what exactly is a KVM switch? Goodness gracious. This thing is huge. Oh, I see. We've got the chungus one. All right. Well included is a little manual a Basic power adapter with okay. Yeah, it's got the modular thing on it, but you only get a North American one Sorry, everyone else. Oh And that's pretty much it which is fine because this this is what you need For the uninitiated what you guys are looking at here is a KVM or keyboard video mouse, which okay It's not much of a keyboard and it certainly isn't a mouse or a video is actually a switcher For those three devices and the idea here is that if you have multiple computers say for example Your gaming machine is a PC and your work machine is a Mac or a Linux box you have the ability to switch your peripherals and The device that your monitor is accepting an input from all with the press of a button or actually with a good KVM And this is a good KVM with a hotkey that you press on your keyboard Of course, none of that is what makes the special KVMs in their various forms have existed basically since the dawns of keyboards mice and video Devices, what's cool about this one is how much video it can handle This is a display port 1.4 KVM and this one doesn't just switch which machine or machines are taking input from your mouse and keyboard and outputting to your monitor It actually can handle up to two monitors across four Separate systems not only that friends but each of these ports is display port 1.4, which means this thing is capable of up to 8k 60 FPS with chroma subsampling or 4k 120 Hertz 444 and it's packed with all kinds of other gaming centric features like support for HDR support for free sync That's right variable refresh rate meaning it might not have RGB or flashy packaging or even an impressive sounding name But this is no ordinary piece of office equipment. This is the gaming KVM I gotta say this thing reminds me more of an AV receiver than anything else Here is where each PC can input up to two monitors. Here's the USB uplink Here's the audio uplink for each one And then things get a little bit confusing because if you want to plug in a peripheral Well, okay your human interface devices your keyboards and mice They all go here your headphones that you actually want to use go here Okay, these are upstream and then if you have a USB device that you want to plug in or it to these PCs That high-speed port is right there and then you've also got another human interface device one and another high-speed one on the front Super convenient the buttons on the front are to sit which which computer you want But of course, there's an easier way to do that, which I showed you guys already and there's more There's a version that supports USB 3 5 gig but also one that supports USB 3 10 gig meaning you could have a storage device connected through your KVM and transfer files it up to 10 gigabit per second from you know This computer to that one not that you would ever do that with your KVM because let's face it You know level one text and you can afford one of these so you probably just have a 10 gig network already Which brings us to kind of an uncomfortable point It's seven hundred dollars for the version I have in front of me that isn't even the top of the line and it doesn't even come with cables because while Wendell does stock cables on the level one Text or he figured hey look if you can get them affordably somewhere else and he doesn't have to QC them So much the better. So with that pricing in mind, you're probably wondering how could anybody justify this? Well, why don't we see it in action and I'll show you I really hope you guys don't like cable management Because this is about to get really ugly really fast. Come on around back here with me boom You are now PC four. Something to be aware of is that while it's super convenient to have the KVM up Close to the user and the computer is far away from the user you're just going to want to make sure that you've used extremely high quality cables in a case like that because You're going to have to account for all the loss from the cable itself as well as the loss from the interface here I talked to Wendell about this when I was actually using one of these to switch between LAN PC in the LAN room and my own PC and he was like Yeah, it's just really important to use high-quality cables in a nutshell. Oh How did I manage to get these so hopelessly mixed up this one still not plugged in what just happened you see this Yeah, yeah, which one? Oh, that's the first. That's what I was trying to tell you. I hope these are all good cables I hope so, too. Well, this one is infinite cable. So this one's gonna work great. Can you shill for them slightly harder? You think? Um, well that one's not so it's probably not gonna work cuz it's not from them It just depends which monitor because one of them is 1440p and that one's 4k This is awful and we don't even have any audio devices plugged in yet You have a suggestion for a better way to do it. Yes, everything should be wireless Bluetooth. Oh Oh wonderful. This is great the weight of the cables Pulling the feet up. You need some lead weights in there Wendell That's my free consultation for you for your product design or you could use the upcoming LTT cable management things. Oh, yeah, actually That's true. That's a better shill. Sorry Wendell. Do you want any other things? Um Like an Xbox controller or some high-speed storage Yeah, xbox controller would be cool. How about this high-speed storage high-speed storage? Yeah. Oh my goodness. This is Look, I got I got some I got some more things for you here. Here's a mic. Why not, right? I mean, I guess so. Here's a hub you can plug in there. Why are you why are you determined to push this to the limit? Why not? I mean, I guess so. I got a capture card if you want that Jake I like how you're using the Xbox controller as your HID device Is it not a human interface device? Well, you won't be able to use the hotkeys. Oh, no, there's all there are four HID ports Oh really? Yeah. Oh cool. No, this thing is freakin awesome. Oh sick. Yeah, did you mention you can rack mount it? That would kind of solve these problems. No, I hadn't mentioned that yet. It's cheap. I think it's like 20 bucks for the rack mount kit Yeah, okay Hey, look at that plug and freakin play G-sync compatible display connected. You don't understand how remarkable it is that that just Worked the pleb way to switch to another computer and you can see the light goes from green to green plus red is to press The button there and there it is. Look Satechi D Drive And the other USB Drive. Oh, man. I never even thought about like sharing a webcam For example, yeah, where's the webcam? I thought we got a webcam. Yeah, let's get a webcam We've got the mic the webcam is actually like a uniquely Kind of awesome use case cuz that's really difficult to do through I mean realistically any kind of hub I always recommend plugging a webcam directly into USB 3 port and the other thing is that it's really uncommon for these KVM Switches to have USB 3 ports at all. Usually it's keyboard video mouse not keyboard video mouse webcam Microphone USB Drive. I mean then it would be a KVMWMU Now a point of clarification is that Wendell doesn't actually recommend using it for mass storage devices probably because You're not going to be on top of it and you're not going to safely remove them Not because it can't do it. So your mileage may vary with that, but he does support a lot of other Enthusiast specific use cases like it's been tested with high-end RGB keyboards from the likes of Corsair, Cougar Brands that don't start with C and it's validated for HDCP pass-through. So I mean we can test that real quick What's a what's an HDCP protected something? I mean Netflix is. I think do we have network running to any of these? No, and one of them probably has Wi-Fi I imagine one of them definitely has wife. Oh god. Oh, everything is going bad All right. You know what we can test is HDR. Hello. Hey, well that immediately worked Freaking awesome. Is there like HDCP test website, you know, is that a thing checking? Oh, is there a simple tool to determine if my HDCP is working? Oh, wow. This looks like a wonderful app download advisor Bruh How about no, okay the Nvidia control panel can apparently do it also a fantastic app Very recently updated definitely not fresh out in 2006. Yes all good So we weren't gonna be able to run into anything that was not gonna work because it's fine. Great. That was our problem Good job, Wendell. Why is our webcam not working? Are you sure it's not working? I mean, it's like red and looks sad Oh, you probably need this. Hey Literal actual poser. Okay, fine fine. I will take that. I'll take a picture there you happy you gotta shave make yourself look younger I don't think it'll help Remember when Luke shaved True, but Luke's also younger than me. You know, what really makes you look younger being younger Linus is just going through his Obama phase That eight years when you just age 25 years. Well, you haven't even like switched between computers that much Oh right, right, right, right. Let's show the cool way to do it What really that's so cool scroll scroll four What else can you do I am now using that computer and look there's my storage which Definitely totally works, but definitely probably causes problems. Like Wendell said see this is what you should always listen to Wendell Just always listen to Wendell and then your life will be good. Well, the webcam seems not happy No it'll figure it out, figure it out. Give it a sec. And once the drivers are already on yeah, of course it immediately works What? Frickin love it and it's completely seamless with the keyboard and mouse because oh did I even mention this not all of his products are Just KVMs. So he's got a wide wide range of different devices depending on how much you want to spend You don't have to get the $700 Cadillac version. There's just dual PC ones like this single monitor two PC Here's one that's single monitor two PC with a 10 gig uplink That's why it's USB-C and he even has one that doesn't support a display at all Oh, yeah, just supports mouse roaming between the machines in hardware So we've done that before in software, but in software In hardware. Yeah, you do need a fully HID compatible mouse So some fancy gaming mice might break it sure but like a normie Dell mouse of this one will probably work fine Yeah, that's kind of nuts. And the other really cool one is the USB power delivery one Oh, yeah So it'll charge the connected devices if you want to switch between your laptop and your iPad and have mouse keyboard input for both of them I mean he even makes one with for monitor support. You can do for computer for monitor, which is that's like the $1,200 one How big is it? Large. Oh, it's in charge Basically any setup you can imagine I think that one is built to order because there's no photos of it It's just like if you want this, please email Wendell at What? No internet. Yeah, this one's not plugged in. I just switched computers again You just didn't even notice me doing it because I was like boom boom boom boom computer switch Let's go Anyway, the one that I'm playing games on is this one So this is the use case for this right if you've got a render or code compile running on something else Or maybe one of your machines is just a server that you have a GUI on for some reason because you're weak like me And you just want to be able to check on it once in a while I really want this because I have like my little router box I'm gonna build and my NAS and I have them sitting side by side I want to be able to switch between them. So let's just check all that switching around I just want to see is HDR still working. Can I enable it here? Enable HDR in my game. Yes, that definitely worked. This is so cool I mean, it's the kind of thing where realistically if you don't need it, that's fine You can just spend the rest of your life pretending that these things don't exist that KVM means kernel virtual machine I mean you're not wrong but if you're a discerning multi-box user and you don't happen to have The world's largest desk to hold all two of your monitors for every one of your four systems This is an absolutely incredible Solution and Level One Techs has a sick product portfolio that covers basically all the bases now and they're even working on display port 2.0 and Thunderbolt in the future Thunderbolt KVM. I actually didn't even know he had well He was saying that the Intel Thunderbolt chipset is kind of a piece of crap and that it will be very difficult. Oh Okay, so maybe yeah, I guess my only question at this point is why did it take a youtuber to create this product? I mean, there's literally hundreds of KVM switches on the market. Well, it's actually very simple in the beginning It was this is the situation I have I have a lot of computers And I want to switch between multiple sets of displays and computers easily. Why is this so hard? I mean it turned out that there were actually a lot of good reasons Why it was hard that I didn't understand I had to do a lot of homework To understand the USB and display port and new USB and other USB Look, I tried eight or nine different KVMs over the years and I couldn't find a single one that did everything well so my first thought was to modify an existing product and I only build my my own Matter of last resort because ain't nobody wants to do that So for both USB and display switching you really need purpose-built integrated circuits or ICs to do that I'm not gonna fab my own ICs obviously and those are different chips Companies like Texas Instruments and NXP make what are called reference designs for things like display switching, you know The USB spec literally has a section in it to dynamically map USB devices between different host computers For a KVM type of use case. So why don't we just implement that in the spec? Well Yeah, that's that's actually what doesn't work if you exactly rigidly follow the spec And it's actually the same the same story when we're talking about display port display port switching It's a little problematic that's why the design philosophy of the KVM has shifted from trying to emulate a monitor and You know do all that stuff to just plumbing different connections to the displays The KVM tries to be invisible now and operate purely as a switcher as a matter of design philosophy What are the biggest hurdles with fast and reliable display switching in a KVM type context is actually? Copyright copyright. Yeah, it's actually a huge annoying mess copyright expansion maximalists require Encryption HDCP between your GPU and your display because you're a filthy pirate and you might steal those ones and zeros those interests in copyright have inserted themselves into display standards committees to the extent that this kind of a KVM type use case is not even considered and Even given a KVM that works you're gonna have to juggle multiple sets of encryption keys between different computers and often that's not done well. It is an awful lot of unnecessary human suffering that ultimately doesn't do anything to stop media piracy When I started this I never would have guessed that so many problems with this stem from this HDCP mechanism Fortunately, I was able to learn a lot about that and a lot how about you know USB works or it doesn't work and all the edge cases with USB and I built an amazing Relationship with an ace team in Taiwan that helped me understand that taught me a lot and we work together on stuff So the hardware design of the KVM, it's already modular There's multiple boards inside this KVM and each board only does one thing It's a separation of concerns we in software like that So if you want three display port you've got three display port boards plus the USB board in the bottom And if I have to go off script and do my own thing I can do my own thing and so as I put in the work and learned everything way back in the display port 1.2 days Testing a whole bunch of devices. I learned that there was a lot that was really to do with you know, the specific Functionality around the USB spec. I mean a lot of the USB devices themselves don't follow spec Remember how I mentioned USB has a thing in it for dynamically mapping devices to host computers Well, virtually no USB peripheral maker even tests for that take for example the Logitech unifying receiver this thing is common as rocks and sticks and It actually supports an 8-byte USB protocol and a 20-byte USB protocol The 20-byte USB protocol is better in every way you can do cooler stuff But for old legacy compatibility you need that 8-byte protocol So if you've got a KVM and you're switching between a host that's doing 8-byte and another host that's doing 20-byte You're gonna have to handle that and that's complicated. So how do you handle that? Well, very carefully it turns out So through my collaboration and software because it turns out I'm decent at that We can do something a little bit more pragmatic rather than actually follow spec to the letter Buggy Logitech wireless receivers and universal audio video codec. That means driverless Even Corsair K65 keyboards and whatever kind of crazy USB peripherals you've got can work I actually have two different kinds of USB ports on the KVM the USB 3 ports are hard switch and the the USB head ports are more of that dynamic device mapping thing Uh, sometimes we can't fix it in the KVM this behind me here. That's the Samsung G9 Neo It loves to not work. It works reasonably okay with the KVM we sell only because I found bugs in Samsung's DisplayPort firmware and I opened a ticket with Samsung And I relentlessly harassed them for about three months. Yeah, three months to get a new firmware And finally they sent me one 1008 and newer which now largely works with the KVM The main reason that I've become known for KVMs is that I'm willing to chase things down like that to try to understand to try to go down a rabbit hole of pain and human suffering and Try to figure out someone else's bugs, bugs that if we strictly stick to the spec They would never get fixed. I still read every single trouble ticket that comes in and internalize it up here That's the secret of the success someone that's willing to put all that in their brain Buying a KVM for me means that I'm gonna put the money back into more and better products and to try to understand the problems and Fix it and through that I found some amazing connections Our customers include game development companies fortune 500s nuclear labs even hospitals for radiology displays Hospitals need KVMs too. Yeah, it turns out that if you've got a fancy radiology display You don't want to buy a bunch of those you want to just switch between devices and hey We can do it. And all of that is why I love these things so darn much Wendell is one of the only other people that I've ever met whose product creation process basically goes yeah, this exists, but it's not quite perfect enough for me and Cost be damned. I really do think that I could make it a little bit better The only question this all raises then is why is it so darn expensive? Look this level of debugging and engineering it takes a lot of time and effort from a surprisingly large team Even just buying quality 10 gigabit USB chipsets that actually work. It's a huge pain not to mention we are Compared to basically every other KVM vendor operating at a very tiny scale Although these things are almost handcrafted, which means the costs are way higher even with higher costs customer expectations are sometimes impossible to meet you'd be surprised how many people expect to Plug in a single Thunderbolt 4 cable to their gaming laptop and be able to run three 4k 144 Hertz monitors on the other side Of that I'm sorry The math is that just not on your side 40 gigabit Thunderbolt 4 is pitiful in a world with 144 Hertz monitors It can barely do one Maybe not even That's why even pedestrian USB-C docks from the likes of Dell and HP like what you get with a business class machine they now have dual USB-C connections and That's why The only way I can deal with that and the KVM is by having two or three separate connections So I could do something like this. This is an upcoming model This one does 120 watt USB-C power delivery, but also has two extra monitor inputs They're full fat DisplayPort 1.4 as far as I know this is a globally unique product But even with all of that effort, you know, it's not perfect. There are gonna be edge cases There's gonna be stuff that I run into but hey, you're willing to work with me and spend some money I'll do what I can to try to figure it out or connect the dots or put it together Because that's just how we roll at Level One No, I mean it leads to KVM adjacent products things like the ED ID feeder This is the 8k version of that that we've been working on for a while LTT reached out unwittingly because they needed an 8-way HDMI thing and it's like well It's gonna take some customization in order to be able to do that But we can do that and this was used at LTX because it's not exactly a KVM It's KVM adjacent, but that's just cuz the cool stuff. I love Solving problems. Okay fair enough, but I can think of one thing you don't have an answer for Mr. Wendell smarty pants I know I know it's our sponsor, right? Corsair building PCs is really fun But it's easy to finish up and realize you've somehow created a spaghetti inspired cable art piece I mean your mom would be super proud But you might want to also consider corsairs IQ link ecosystem It helps reduce clutter inside your PC with one standardized cable connecting everything You can even chain devices together using that same simple connector all leading to a single IQ link system hub that can be magnetically attached to your PC case each of the hubs two ports can handle up to seven connected devices which Helps reduce cabling complexity and with a range of products in the ecosystem like fans coolers and power supplies Building a fully connected PC is a breeze Oh, and of course you can customize the RGB lighting of all your Corsair devices with their IQ software Check out corsairs IQ link smart ecosystem at the link Pun intended down below if you guys enjoyed this video you might enjoy seeing a potential use case for these things where I have a central computer in one place and then fiber optic cabling running to Different kind of stations where I can sit and use it throughout my house Is that really a cost-saving measure by the time you buy one of these and a bunch of fiber optic whatever? I would say if you wanted to buy a bunch of baller monitors, this could actually save me money. Yeah. Yeah Yeah, but mostly it's just really cool and awesome.