Big news in maths! There's a new tile in town;   so we've come to the town of 
Newtyle to see what it's all about. So you know your regular floor tiles? How 
they you know they go over and over, they   cover the entire plane with a pattern? This 
new tile goes infinitely but with no repeats.  Happy new tile! Okay, so an aperiodic monotile 
- what's this all about? We need to break that word   down. First of all we need to understand what 
tiling is or tessellation; so let's look at- I   mean probably the most simple shape that tiles, 
triangle. When we tessellate triangles it tends   to be a kind of one up, one down, tooth situation 
going on. And every single triangle tessellates. even the scalene ones. And what that means is that 
they fit together beautifully like you would see   on a pavement or a wall - no gaps and no overlaps. So 
those are the the two main rules: they fit together,   no gaps, no overlaps. So every single triangle 
tessellates, every single quadrilateral tessellates;  so if we were to find a kind of new tiling 
that had a new property where it wasn't periodic   it would have to at least be five sides. So-
- (Brady: Hang on, periodic?)
- Yes, okay, periodic - the second part of this.   If you can tessellate in such a way that there is 
translational symmetry, so the same section repeats   over and over again - ooh second colour. This section here, 
I can pick that up and move it over and it looks   exactly the same as this section down here. Okay. 
So this is periodic because it has translational   symmetry, it's got a regular repeating pattern 
over and over again; you can see how you would   take even just a section of two of them, section 
of three of them, any arbitrary amount and you can   find another patch that looks exactly the same and 
you can pick the entire tessellation up - so this is   what we mean by global. The entire tessellation 
up, move it all over, and maybe up 1, up 2, and   it will look exactly the same, fit in exactly where it was before.
- (For different shapes presumably that) (repeatable bit can be more and more complicated I imagine?)
- Yeah it can. So I think that's called   a primitive unit? If you have an interesting 
combination that you can move around - hexagons   looks quite cool, but you could do it with one 
hexagon as well. Animation guy: have fun with that. Mathematicians have discovered a brand new kind of tile. (This is periodic?)
- Yes, this is periodic and it's a tiling. 
What we are aiming for is an aperiodic tiling and   we have tons of them actually; they've existed 
for a long time. I guess the most famous one- (You've got the Penrose tiling?)
- Yeah I really 
didn't think this would go out of date. (But it did.)
- I- I am shocked by the news but surprised and 
you know I've got more space. The Penrose tiling   is - was - the the lowest amount of tiles that we 
could have which made this aperiodicity happen. It forced aperiodicity to happen. So the Penrose 
tiling is either made of kites and darts or a kind   of wide rhombus and a thinner rhombus. On their 
own they definitely tile periodically; but with   the Penrose tiling it's a set of the two of 
them, so you need two tiles to make it happen,   and there's these- they're called matching rules. 
So sometimes you can do it with little notches   and it forces you to tile them in such a way that 
there will never be a translational symmetry. So   you pick the whole thing up, you move it around, it 
never looks the same. You might notice that there   are some bits which look like they repeat. I do 
love that his name is Penrose; it's got this kind   of pentagonal rose motif that comes up. How come if 
you can see repeats we're saying it's non-repeating?  It's okay to have local repeats, those little bits 
that look the same, but if you were to pick up the   whole tessellation - move it around and try and find 
somewhere else it fits - you're not gonna find it. So   Penrose needed to - and this was an open problem 
for a long time - could it even be done? Absolute   mystery. Mathematicians didn't know if there could 
be an aperiodic tiling. Then when they found them   they needed much much much more than 2. I think 
the first set was over 20,000 tiles. And then it   was a kind of one upping between mathematicians; 
you know, who can get it down to 11? Who can get   it down to 6? And so you've got all of these 
different Berger tiles, Wang tiles, then Penrose   got it down to 2. Which he said, I believe in 
the podcast, that he was surprised how easy it was.   To which I say, how come it took so long to 
find just the 1? The mono tile then?
- (So after)   (the Penrose tiling was there like a big race for 
a mono tile? Was this- was this the thing people)  (were looking for? Or had people sort of left this 
area of research and thought 2 was as good as it gets?) I think people wanted to find it but the 
faith wasn't there. I certainly did not believe   that it was possible. You know I'm a little bit 
younger, so I was not around in the the 60s and   the 70s when there was this big tiling boom. And I 
convinced myself that if I had been around in the   70s all of this amazing tiling mathematical fame
was ripe for the picking and I absolutely would   have staked my claim and found a cool tile. And now 
I know for a certain that's not true because here   I am in the year 2023, this incredibly simple 
shape was just waiting to be found and I did   not find it. I'm a mathematician and there's just 
been a new tile discovered. Mathematicians have   been looking for it for about 60 years. So it's 
called The Hat.
- (Do you think it looks like a hat?) I can see it as a hat. I I did actually- I asked 
Craig Kaplan who was part of the team, because   clearly it looks like a t-shirt, an untucked 
t-shirt. So I asked him why hat instead of   t-shirt and it was just a case of ergonomics; um 
it's much easier to write the word hat over and   over again and if you squint it does look like 
a hat. I don't think he he even saw that it was   clearly t-shirt shaped beforehand, but there's 
plenty of artworks of it looking like a t-shirt.   So this is the solution, this is what we've 
posed as the solution to the Einstein problem   um which is a pun yep - um meaning one stone. We 
can now tile the entire plane, the infinite plane,  without any translational symmetry and only this 
one stone. You won't be able to find another place   that's exactly the same. And it's a result so 
nicely proved it twice.
- (Is it one stone?)
- I mean...I   just want to say that I love it, I think it's the 
best. I believe that this counts as one stone.   When you look at the tiling - so here's 
a little bit of a tiling I made earlier - the purple ones you might notice they are flipped 
over. So I mean I could take this this purple one   out here and if I try and put them directly on 
top they don't entirely line up because they are   in fact mirror images. Some of them are flipped 
over; the tiling wouldn't work if there weren't   some flipped over. I still think it's a mono 
tile, I believe that we've titled the entire   plane with one shape. Uh there are there are some 
camps where people don't want the the flipped   over tile. The ratio between the flipped over 
tiles to the the regular forward-the-way tiles  - you're not ready for this - it's the 
golden ratio to the power of 4 to 1. (There's obviously a good reason for that hidden 
in the maths)
- It's to do with eigenvectors yeah.  So for every 1 flipped over tile you need 
roughly 6 forward tiles; but that roughly 6 is actually the golden ratio to the power of 4.
It would have to be irrational for an aperiodic.   Hello! Future Ayliean here but only one week in the 
future. So just after we finished filming this   video, the same team discovered this: the ultimate 
monotile. It tiles aperiodically but with no   cheeky reflections, it's a twist on the original.
And future-future Ayliean will tell you about it as   soon as I can but right now I'm gonna hand back to 
past Ayliean to tell you about the old new monotile.   (You said something about they proved it twice?
Because this does seem like it'll be something)   (that would be hard to prove)
- Umm yeah and I feel 
like hard to prove but almost one of them is   inevitable. So there's the standard proof which a 
lot of other aperiodic titles use, which involves   super tiles and meta tiles. So it's not the first 
tile which is- is a singular tile which can do   aperiodic tiling. 
- (What?!)
- To be very precise, there are just maybe infinitely - definitely infinitely - many other tiles that have this property. 
Let's look at one of them at least. Here's   a puzzle from this very old book: a farmer had 
a square field but had to sell a quarter of it. This quarter is gone. When he died his four sons 
split up the remainder in four equal portions   and each piece had exactly the same shape. How did 
they do it? Do you want to have a go?
- (I'm wondering) (if it's going to involve triangles?)
- A lot of people go for that first of all.
- Yeah? But no?   So if you do the triangles you can split 
it into four triangles which are all 1, 1,   root two right angle triangles but two of them are 
bigger and we want to make sure that everyone gets   the the same share here. It's worth having a 
few seconds to think about this, it's a nice puzzle. Looks like a fairly old set of tiles in 
Newtyle. We'll update it? Okay.   (You found a four leaf clover?)
 - Oh course I found a four leaf clover
- (You just saw it?) Yeah it's right there, you see?
- (How did you just see that?) I'm gonna leave this right here. 
The way that we're 
gonna do this, not immediately obvious, but we're   going to take this shape that was left over, it's 
called the L-shaped triominal, and we're going to   make a smaller version of it. So I've split it up, 
there's a smaller version there, and then I'm gonna   split it like this. And now we've got four of the 
same shape so all of the sons are happy, they've   all got the same size, the same shape piece. You 
might notice, because they're all the same shape as   the larger shape we can do that again but smaller. 
I could take this one here and I could split that   up, put another L shape on there. And I could keep 
that going for as long as I like. Oh do you know   what these are called? Because they're a tile that 
replicates themselves they're called a rep-tile Okay so this has the the property that we're 
looking for; this creates an aperiodic tiling.   (That feels like it's repeat-y but it's not)
- Yeah, well you- it's got the same thing where you know   you pick it up, you move it around, you can't 
um you can't translate it - no translational symmetry. A lot of them have this kind of locally 
repeating motifs; it feels repeat-y. You know, when   you think about an aperiodic tiling you might 
think oh this is gonna go into absolute chaos;  there's a surprising amount of structure involved 
in aperiodicity because- I mean aperiodicity is   almost like a border case. You've got things 
which don't tile at all, they leave gaps, they   leave overlaps; things which periodically tile,
you know they've got a good strong tiling - squares, rectangles, I mean any quadrilateral - and then right 
on the line between tiling periodically and not   tiling at all you have aperiodic tiles. So so it's 
it's a very difficult boundary edge case to find   and so there is a lot of structure involved in 
making this happen.
- (Why has this thing here even)  (made news? What's so special about these Einstein 
tile things?)
- Okay so this shape here, yes it can  aperiodically tile as can many other shapes. I 
really hope that your animation person puts   a pinwheel tailing in? They're very nice. And 
that's just a triangle and we've spoken about   those. So these can tile periodically. I could 
if I want take some L shapes and I could take   another L shape and kind of fit them together 
like this and I could keep that going, and this   would make a periodic tile. So what's the new 
thing is that this can't. You can try as hard as   you want but you will never be able to get this to 
periodically tile - and that's how it was discovered.  So David Smith who is a geometry hobbyist, he 
was playing around with these different shapes,   kind of came across what what this is called the 
polykite and tried to tile it in a periodic way   and couldn't. And he thought okay this must 
be some sort of issue, maybe I'm not looking   large enough, there'll be- there will be a way to 
tile it periodically I just can't find it. And   so he struggled; tried and tried and tried. Then 
thought maybe it's something to do with Heesch numbers? Don't quote me on this but I think it's an 
infinite Heesch number, I think you can circle around   infinitely. But he he at one point thought maybe 
it's a tile with a very large Heesch number - which I   want to add in because I like the little like pop 
animation sound that goes with your Heesch tilings. He then passed on to Craig Kaplan and said, I've 
got this shape and I'm trying as hard as I can   to make it tile periodically and I can't. 
And so that was when they started looking   at the computer proofs, kind of running through 
could a computer figure out how to make this tile   periodically? Still no; and at that point we have 
to start looking at actual mathematical proofs   of this being the solution to the Einstein 
problem. It is the one stone which will not   tile periodically. 
There is a new tile that 
has been invented and we're handing them out   obviously because we're in Newtyle. Are you a 
fan of maths at all? 
- (Can you fit them together?)   Oh nice!
- (Well done. So the thing that's special is 
that it can only be used for that one style)   (of thing? There are lots of things that can do 
aperiodic tiling but they also do periodic.)
- Yes   (I'm with you)
- This does aperiodic and that's it. 
It has been proved twice - very very cool. And the   first proof involves a situation like this where 
we build up meta tiles and super tiles and we   show that they create a structure which forces 
aperiodicity. The second one is brand new and   um unseen before. So the idea with meta tiles - and I 
think I will go back to this this kind of L chair   aperiodicity. We've looked at them going down the 
way and that's kind of a rabbit hole that could go   down and down forever. I could keep splitting each 
of these L shapes into more and more L shapes. It   could also go the other direction, can start 
with an L shape and ask myself where does this   sit as part of a larger L-shaped tiling? So that's 
taking the the L-shaped triomino and then building   out the way. So what we've done for - and I say 
we, I was not part of this team at all - but what   humans as- well I mean it's a new 
a new stride in human knowledge. So what humans   have done is take the the hat tile and then build 
it into meta tiles which look like this. The first   meta tile is just that the hat on its own but 
it has a kind of triangle that goes around it.  Then two of the tiles together like this. There is 
kind of four points around it that you can join   together to make it look like a parallelogram. 
There is another one very similar which makes   sort of a weird pentagon. The F cluster - P was 
taken so this is this is the F. And then this one's   my favourite one, this involves three together and 
this is the one that includes the backwards. So   yes okay so we've got right hand shirt tucked in 
and then the rest are left-hand shirts tucked in.   We have just actually been building a wall 
for a few days yeah and this is basically what   I've been doing, so you're giving me a lot of PTSD just with tiles.
- So we have the meta tile which  - the H meta tile because obviously hexagon - 
it is a little bit of an unusual hexagon in   that it's it's irregular so three shorter, three 
longer. And for the substitution rules for this   one our hexagon would then be replaced with a 
combination of three more hexagons, a few of the   pentagons, and just one of the triangles and it'll 
look like this. Drawing skills engage.  So we're saying anytime you see this 
hexagon shape, replace that with this   kind of combination of: three more hexagons, a 
few pentagons, few parallelograms and then the   triangle which remember represents just 
one hat. Then fill it all in with hats. So   finding a substitution tiling that makes 
aperiodicity; you know we've had them before,  but finding one that then is all- could 
be all filled in with the one same tile,   brand new. Those four meta tiles, they then create 
another kind of tiling called super tiles. And   this process of kind of the structure going out 
and out means that every single one of the   hats you could locate where it is by looking at 
its neighbours. Maybe we should do that with the   L shape. So in this level where we've broken it 
down once we've got tiling 1, 2, 3, 4. And although all the tiles are the same we can 
tell where they are. If I were to apply this to   what would be the metatile version of this where 
they're broken down again, I can have 1, 2, 3, 4 but these are all in cluster 1. So I can say 
okay this is tile 1,2 for example. I could give   it a kind of set of coordinates that means I 
can always find exactly where it is. And that   forces aperiodicity because it means each tile-
it only has one place that it fits in. It's it's   unique, it's supposed to be there, I can locate it 
and I can say this is the tile, it exists exactly   here and even though I'm looking at an infinite 
plane of tilings I know where I am because I know   which cluster, which super tile, which meta tile - I 
can locate the address of this exact tile. There   are no tiles which have the same address and so 
it causes this aperiodicity. That's- that's the   one that makes more sense, and that's um a type of 
proof that has been used for aperiodicity before.   But - there is another.
I think individual tiles it's something like 300. 
Nicely done! Well done I'm particularly good at this - there's one. I actually 
do think it is part of being good at maths, I think   it's to do with recognising the the patterns. 
So the second proof involves a second tile. When they discovered the hat - and by they I mean 
David Smith - discovered the hat he also discovered   another tile which is made by putting kites 
together called the turtle.
- (Oh yeah I'm seeing that) You see it as a turtle? Yeah so here's the 
turtle. When they were first discovered this one   is made out of eight kites joins together; this 
one is made of ten kites joined together. So they   were treated as separate entities but they are 
in fact one and the same as part of a continuum. If   you look at the angles, you know we've got right 
angle down here, a reflex three-quarter angle or   inverted right angle over here. The angles are the 
same as we work the way around, the lengths are   different. So if you consider the lengths on the 
classic hat - it's a classic now - they're all either   1 or root 3. Again there's a lot of like 
cheating going on but I prefer to think of it as-   I don't know, just I wish I had something 
philosophical to say. It's not cheating   it's making it work. So um all of the lengths are 
either 1 or root 3 apart from one of them   which is 2. But you can think of it as two 1s
joined together. So we have the hat and we have   the turtle and they are part of a continuum of 
shapes. If you took all of the edge lengths and   kind of pushed them down so that you made some of 
them smaller and some of them bigger depending on   which way you go you get two boundaries. So you 
get a chevron and you get what's called a comet   shape. So we'll look at the chevron and the comet. 
They tile periodically and there's a middle one   as well right in the middle which looks like a 
mix between a hat and a turtle which also tiles   periodically. The underlying grid for the chevron 
and the underlying grid for the comet; although   they're both triangular, the the ratios don't 
match up, so the lengths don't match. And it means   you can't you can't rectify them, you can't put 
them together, they could never- you could never   put the chevron onto the comet grid, you couldn't 
put the comet on the chevron grid with the same   area and have them line up with the the lattice 
points which is the nice bits on the grid. What   that means is that all of the shapes in between 
- like I said aperiodicity is a boundary case - all of the shapes in between the periodic points 
they fall into this no man's land of aperiodicity.   (So does that mean like there are lots and lots of 
different shapes not- that are not hats or t-shirts)   (that do this?)
- Yep. 
- (Then why do they pick that 
particular one to release to the world? Why is that) (one getting all the fame?)
- I imagine because you can 
draw it really nicely on a grid of- a dual grid of   hexagons and triangles together. Something very fun 
to do with any pattern is to try and find the dual;   um which is like it's evil twin. If you take 
the midpoint of each of the shapes and then   you join them together you'll get another grid.
And so in this case the dual of the triangular   tiling is this hexagon grid, and vice versa. 
So the these are where the kites come from;   um the hat is made out of eight of these. If you 
see the kite that's created by two dual grids   together, the hat is made out of eight of them 
joined together. So that was where it came from.  (So it was sitting in front of our faces)
- Yeah it's like right there. Yeah yeah I really kicked myself.  (It was waiting to be found, in plain sight)
- Yep but don't worry we've got it now. You can see   that's the- oh it's this way round one. 
- (So I always thought the reason that it would have)  (this aperiodic tiling was because things were 
constantly rotating at like irrational angles) (or something, never to repeat. But it's actually 
quite an orderly pattern.)
- Yeah you know there's   a weird thing, it is a very orderly pattern. I 
think that there's only six orientations that   it would be at, but it doesn't even make use of 
all of the orientations that could on this grid   it just sits at six different orientations, the 60 
degrees.
- (How did you feel about the announcement?)  First of all incredibly excited; then then I 
worried a little bit about the fact that my tattoo   was now out of date - um but overall I was really 
happy. I never thought that I would be alive at   a time that something so significant happened 
um in terms of maths. I mean we've had way too   many once in a lifetime events in a bad way and 
I thought- I just thought, oh my gosh this is this   is genuinely a once in a lifetime event. For 
me to be alive during aperiodic monotile time   - overjoyed. And then immediately the first thing 
that I wanted to do was turn it into Truchet  tiles. That was an instant thought and then I went 
to Twitter and saw someone had already done it. But   luckily they're nice, they do look really good,
I enjoy the Truchet tile version of the hat. - Who's invented this then?
- So David Smith discovered it and then three other 
mathematicians: Joseph Myers, Chaim Goodman-Strauss and Craig Kaplan proved that there's 
definitely not going to be any repeats, yeah. 
Do you   know what it would be called to find an aperiodic 
monotile which needs no reflection?
- (I don't know) (but I can tell from your face it's going to be 
a pun)
- It's a vampire tile - because it has no reflection?  Check links in all the usual places for some 
extra footage and proofs from this interview   with Ayliean. Plus we've got an extra interview 
with Craig Kaplan, one of the researchers who   made these amazing discoveries.
- It's a wild ride, it's completely unlikely and   should not be taken as a model for how scientific 
discovery ever happens, it's completely ridiculous.
- And yes we'll   get to that even newer tile as soon as we 
can. Meanwhile if puzzles and patterns are   your thing, maybe you're the sort of person 
who could end up having a career with today's   episode sponsor Jane Street. Jane Street's a 
research-based trading firm with offices all   across the globe - although perhaps not in Newtyle, 
population 800, just yet. Go to their website, check   out the Join Jane Street section for vacancies, 
internships, and some free and fun introductory   programs for students. Could be something right 
up your alley. Jane Street's a great place to work   and they think the sort of people who like 
Numberphile videos might also be the sort of people who   want a career in their offices around the world.
janestreet.com is the place to check them out. That is the sneaky matching rules that Penrose 
tiles use, just hidden as an   underlying grid.
- It was exciting to be 
a part of it and I am just so grateful   that that it's causing excitement out 
in the world. If it causes anybody to be   you know one little bit more interested in 
mathematics, you know then that's fantastic.