- [Linus] This might look like a GPU. Smell like a GPU. Sticking in a PCI Express
16x slot like a GPU and even talk like a GPU. (muttering gibberish) But I assure you, its intended purpose is very different and to some potentially terrifying. It's dubbed the ASUS IOT
AI Accelerator PCIe Card or CRL-G116U-P3DF for short. And it's designed for artificial
intelligence computation. Speaking of intelligence,
you'd be intelligent to know I'm going to tell you
about our sponsor Honey. Honey is the free to use shopping tool that helps search for the best promo codes on tons of your favorite sites. Get it today at joinhoney.com/LTT (upbeat music) Historically, we've mostly shied away from covering AI stuff. And there's a couple
of good reasons for it. One is we're not AI or
machine learning developers. So finding practical use cases
that we are able to set up and demo for you guys
can be a little tricky and second, a lot of those use
cases are extremely technical behind the scenes kinds of
things, at least for now. So hardware like this, isn't too applicable to
end users like me and you, that isn't till today. While doing research for and testing the home automation setup at my new house, get subscribed by the way, you don't want to miss any future content around revamping that place. We stumbled into a bit of a roadblock regarding presence detection
or the ability for the systems in the house to be aware of whether or not anyone is actually home. Presence detection provides
us with a number of benefits. For example, we can turn off lights and set the HVAC to be
more energy efficient when there's nobody at home. And this is relatively simple to implement on a whole house level, but therein lies the challenge. We put a lot of effort into
making my house a lot more granularly controllable,
practically every room has its own independent HVAC and lighting, which is awesome for personal preferences. Like the kids might
want their rooms cooler than my wife and I do for
example or vice versa, but it can also be used
to improve efficiency and save costs. If no one's in the giant
rec room downstairs, what's the point of
heating and cooling it. I mean surely that can't
be that hard to automate. Well as we found out, it
can be really freaking hard. One idea we had was to install
Bluetooth low energy beacons in every room and read people's presence through their phones. The only problem with that is
that people have this tendency when they're at home to put
their phone on a charger and oh, I don't know,
walk around their house. So that won't work. Another idea was to use motion sensors, but those kind of crapped the bed as soon as you decide to
take a nap on the couch, and then you wake up in a
sauna of a room in the summer, which sounds like a pretty bad time to me. So this is where our AI
card comes into play. This is an ASUS designed product, but all of the important AI bits are actually made by Google of all people under the brand Coral. We've got both of them linked
down in the description below. Let's take this thing apart. This specific card has
16 onboard Edge TPUs as Google calls them. And the TPU stands for
Tensor Processing Unit. In the most simple terms, these TPU's are hardware processors that are physically designed and optimized to run a specific application. You may have heard of
something called an ASIC as something that's really good at mining a specific cryptocurrency. Well, these are the same idea except that instead of mining Bitcoin
they are for running Machine Learning Inference Calculations. So what we're looking
at here is essentially just a PCI Express 16x interface here going you can actually see the traces going right into this PCI Express switch, which appears to be just
splitting out these lanes into an M.2 2x interface
for each one of these little Dual TPU's here, I was expecting something less kind of modular and
science fair project-y. Now each of the Edge TPU
of which there are two on these M.2 cards can do
around 4 trillion operations per second with a power
draw of only 2 watts. So 2 watts times 16 TPU is brings us to 32 watts for the card. You add in your PCIe switch and fans and that brings you to 52 watts, which is well within the 75 watts that this PCI Express slot could power. But for some reason it still requires a six pin power connector. And it's got this gigantic
copper fin cooler on it. Now you're probably thinking, wow, that's really cool Linus. But most of this sounds like
the boring technical stuff that you were talking about earlier. But if you were following closely, while we were researching
better ways to detect presence in my new house, we stumbled upon some
software called Frigate, that uses cameras plus this hardware to really efficiently detect presence. It's really freaking cool. Let's take it for a test drive. I got to put this back together. And we're at this test bench is running the latest version of unRAID in it and it's going to stand
in for my home nest. Now you might notice there is
also a GPU installed in it. So we need that as a video output because this is a non-APU Ryzen Processor, but it's also useful for offloading the camera video decode
process from the CPU. Now in my home deployment, I'll probably just use the CPU because I'm going to have 24 epic cores that are otherwise going to go unused. But for now, this is the better solution. Now, once unRAID's booted up, you can see that we have
just a single array disc with no redundancy. That's not what I'd recommend
as a production deployment, but it's good enough for this video. Now we just pop over to
the community apps tab and installed apps. So we've got our Coral
accelerator module drivers. We don't need this if
we're using a USB version of Google's AI processor, we only need it for the
PCI Express version. And then we've also
got our NVIDIA drivers, which are for our GPU. Now it should be noted that you can use your CPU for Frigate, but performance is not good. Next, we install Frigate. Now we can't just launch it. We've got to actually configure Frigate, otherwise it's going to
have no idea what devices it's supposed to be using. So step one, we're going to copy the GPU UUID from our NVIDIA
driver and paste that there. Then for our TPU mapping, we've mapped it to our Apex_0 device. So that is only one of the 16
TPU's that are on that card because we're only going to
have a couple of cameras. We're not going to bother
mapping all of them, but we did map five of them. So that should be enough
for our demo for now. Wow this is a great
password, Jake. I like it. ♪ Are you serious? ♪ Don't get overwhelmed. Most of this is included in the template, but there are a couple of
things that we had to tweak. So one is we had to set up our camera, so you can see we pulled our camera from the writer's den and we've got our network
password right here. We're just using the one camera for now. We actually didn't take
all five of our NPUs. We've just got four of
them configured here, again this is total overkill
for what we're doing. And then we've also got this right here. So we are limiting our frames per second for the camera feed that
we're using to 5 FPS. That is all we're going to
need in 99% of situations to have functional detection and adding more processing to this would serve no real purpose. One other critical thing
back up at the top here is that you can plug
this into an MQTT server, which is basically its
way of communicating back to your other home automation devices. So this MQTT server 10.20.0.71 is running on our office
home assistant instance. Hey, 5 FPS of green. I can see why you said
we didn't need more FPS. There's not a whole lot of movement there. ♪ It's peanut butter demo time. ♪ ♪ Peanut butter demo time. ♪ ♪ Peanut butter demo time. ♪ ♪ Well, yeah. ♪ ♪ Well, yeah. ♪ - [Jake] Okay, That one camera is set up. We have another one too, but let's just... - [Linus] Okay, hi there. - [Jake] Oh, wait, hold on. I screwed up. - [Linus] Oh! All right. Do we not have the detection on? - [Jake] We do but I, I didn't turn it on, like, the bounding boxes. - Bounding boxes are just
little boxes that show us what the software's detecting and the degree of certainty that it has for what that object is. Humans aren't the only
thing that it can detect. But they're kind of the only
thing that we care about for home automation presence detection. - You're telling me we
don't have to detect how many apples you
have in your fruit bowl. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh, you're, you're there buddy. Oh, it's kind of detecting your feet. - [Linus] Does it know who I am? - [Jake] That part we have not done yet. - What if It only sees
like this much of me? - [Jake] Yeah it still
thinks you're there. - [Linus] What if my legs show? - [Jake] Oh, it lost you. - [Linus] It lost me? What about a hand? - [Jake] Oh yeah, it sees you again. - Oh, really? Okay, what if it's just so an elbow? - [Jake] Oh yeah, it's detecting you. - [Linus] What? Really? - [Jake] Yeah. - [Linus] Okay. Can it can it see me? - [Jake] It's confused right now. - [Linus] It's a little confused? What about if there's just like a casual, like hand there? - [Jake] It's kind of freaking out. So sometimes it actually sees two people when he's kind of obscured
but that's totally fine. - Oh like, it thinks I
might be like two people having a (beep) behind the curtain. - Yeah sure. But it's fine because all we need to know is if there's anyone, right? - Right. - Yeah. And (beep) aside. - You don't want the heat to
cut out during your (beep). - [Jake] Okay, all right.
- [Linus] You will get cold. Man! You can do so much
cool stuff with this, but wait, there's more. - What if you have a common area, like a kitchen or a rec room and you want to be able to
apply personalized preferences when you're present, like
say have your Spotify music with your specific playlist
play when you're in the room and not when Yvonne's in the room, right? - Oh, I never even thought of that. - You could walk around the house and have Spotify playing here. Oh, I'm over here now. And now there's my Spotify over here. - Oh my God. That would be so cool. - [Jake] Turns out someone
had that exact thought and created Double Take, which is a piece of software that allows you to determine the face. This is more creepy. - Yeah. - But it's all local. - I mean we could just
configure this to not log any of this (beep), right? - Yeah. - Did a Linus appear? - [Jake] Oh, Wow! Yeah. - [Linus] Nice. Now Double Take isn't available on the unRAID community app
store, at least not yet. So we need to manually set up the docker container ourselves. Ben wants it set up. We need to configure it to
listen to Frigate over MQTT. It should be noted that Double Take itself doesn't do facial recognition. It's just an API and
interface to make hooking into and training facial
recognition software easier. So the first thing we need to do is grab some pictures of me, which are going to be training data for our facial recognition. So I guess I need to go over there, right? - We could go over there
or we can just upload some photos we already have. Double Take currently supports DeepStack, CompreFace and Facebox. They're all machine learning based facial recognition models. DeepStack is on the community app store so that's the easiest to set up, but I tried it out and it
wasn't really that great with the limited training data that I had. CompreFace, on the other hand, it requires Docker Compose, I have to run into VM,
but it's scary good. I put a couple of photos of Linus and secretly kind of had him
walk by without telling him. And it was like, Linus. And then I walked by and it was like, Jake with like 10 photos of each of us. - All right, let's try it. Why do you have so many pictures
of me on your hard drive? (both laughing) - Well you make my drive hard. - Why CPU when I can see you pee? - Why talk to you when
I can leave the zoom? How do I use a Mac, do you know? - No! These stills are horrible. - [Jake] It's Scary. - [Linus] Good Lord. - [Jake] It's you without a beard. (Linus singing) Oh, wow. Yeah, yeah, yeah. - Oh my God, 95.8%? How can it be that sure on
unbearded Linus training? - There was only one that it
is actually confident about. - [Linus] I mean 94% seems
pretty damn confident to me. - [Jake] You know what we
can do is take all of these and say train off of those data. Now you wanna walk over there again? - Yeah, for sure. - [Jake] Okay. That's plenty. There's so many Linus' now. Linus, Linus, Linus, Linus. Like there's a couple of times
that it thinks it's James. I think like once you train
a good model with CompreFace, I'd probably say that like,
if it only accepted as, as that person, unless the
confidence was like 99%, some of these other models, Madison, also made with people's photos with them wearing a mask. So like it literally has the eyes. Can you go back? Run over there and just... - All right, I'm going,
I'm going, I'm going. - See if it makes some more mistakes. - I'm going to pull up
a chair, Linus style. - [Jake] It's very
confident about Linus now. (Linus struggling) - Who else would behave like this? - [Jake] I don't think that's
what it's looking for but... - Man so you could just kind of wander around your house for 10 minutes, find anything that's
wrong, boom, train it. - Part of it is also going
to be specific cameras because you know, each camera
looks a little different. - One thing I asked
Jake about and he said, it doesn't have this
functionality for now is, can it morph over time and
can it continue to self-train? - The thing with facial recognition is like the more data you feed it, the more uncertain it becomes. - All of this leaves
us with some questions. Do you even need this thing? Could a bog standard CPU
do the same calculations? The answer is yes, it
could, but way slower. To put it in perspective, your average Quad Core CPU
would probably only be able to handle a few frames per
second, on a Quad Core. But because these Edge
TPUs are so optimized for running these specific calculations, they are stupid fast at them. A single Coral Edge TPU can handle around a hundred frames per second
of people detection in Frigate and we've got 16 of them. So if my rough math is correct, that's around 1600 frames per second. We might actually be pushing that once we've got all the
cameras in the new place. - [Jake] But we're only
taking only 5 FPS for me. - Still, it's a lot of cameras. - [Jake] I don't know 5 FPS. - Yeah, five. Okay,
yeah, man that's crazy. So a single one of these
TPUs could probably handle 15 to 20 cameras at 5 FPS. Another question this raises is, are we worried about the
security implications? Fortunately, since we have
all of our own hardware and all of this is open
source and locally hosted, none of the data goes outside of my house. So I'm actually pretty happy with the level of security and safety. As for being worried about AI taking over, no one's asking that question. So it's in here anyway. The answer is no! Leaving only one question
then, who's our sponsor? FreshBooks. FreshBooks is the simple
accounting solution that is designed specifically
with you in mind, the small business owner. It features built-in automation that allows you to spend
less time tracking projects and more time growing your business. So whether you're a trades person, creative agency or a YouTuber, you can choose the plan
that's right for you with FreshBooks. They have an Award-winning
Toronto-based support team who are always happy to
help you if you need it. And you don't have to take my word for it. You can try FreshBooks
for free for 30 days today with no credit card required at freshbooks.com/Linus. If you enjoyed this video, maybe go check out the video
where we built the server that is going to be
running all this stuff. We're going to have to
get a little bit creative with PCI Express expansion on it, but that's the machine
that's going to somehow run this full AI card. - [Jake] Yeah, yeah.
- So good luck everybody. Are we going to do an external PCIe box? We should totally do it. - [Jake] Yeah, we should totally do it. - Yeah, that'll be a video. Get subscribed. - [Jake] We have water
cooler and everything.