- Everyone and their dog
has tried to get into crypto or blockchain technology somehow. And I think it's now safe to say, we have finally jumped the shark. Norton, the infamous antivirus company is no longer content to
waste just a little bit of your computer's resources. Several months ago, they said, you know what, screw it. And injected their own
cryptocurrency mining software into Norton 360. We gasped. We shouted. We cried. And then, because it's our job to try these things so that you don't have to, we resigned ourselves to installing it. Leaving, only one question, is it as good as my
segue to today's sponsor? Thanks to KiwiCo for
sponsoring this video. KiwiCo ships out crates that
contained hands-on projects for kids to help develop
their creative confidence and problem solving skills. Learn more at the end of this video or at the link down below. (upbeat music) Right out of the gate, we're
starting out strong here because unlike basically
every other mining software, you've got to pay to play. Norton Crypto, yes that's what
they're actually calling it, is only available with a
Norton 360 subscription. So I begrudgingly handed over
my credit card to do something that we basically tell everyone not to do. Install Norton. With that bitter pill swallowed, we looked for the opt-in prompt, the one asking if you
want to make some money while your PC is idling, and we thought, Hey, seems like a great idea. Everybody loves free money and clicked it. But how does it work? Once it's enabled, after about
a minute of your GPU idling, the Norton Crypto miner will turn on, adding your graphics cards
power to an Ethereum mining pool where it and every other Norton miner goes to work digging for ether. When a payout happens, it gets split equally
amongst those in the pool, depending on how much hash
rate they've contributed. Now, this isn't anything new. The first mining pool,
Slush Pool, came out in 2010 and consolidated machines to mine Bitcoin in order to give the little guy an edge over larger operations
by banding together. Over the years, more and more mining pool
operations have sprung up and as long as you have
the computational power, you're basically free to join. But Norton had some innovative new ideas. While most pools and
exchanges take a small one or 2% cut of your mining profits to share with the pool operator, and many mining clients also
have small associated fees. Norton figured, Hey, we're already charging
you for Norton 360. So let's disrupt the status
quo by charging wait, 15 (beep) percent. Excuse me. Even ignoring the paid nature
of their software compared to basically any other
solution, 15% is outrageous. And the worst part, is
we had to go digging for this information. At no point during the setup
process where we informed of this fee. And we
even tried clicking the, how does this work button, but found only a brief FAQ
with basic explanations for things like, what is a blockchain?
And, how does mining work? The fee was actually hidden
away in a support page for Norton Crypto behind a dropdown. There's just no respect
for the customer here. Just a hidden middle finger
waiting to gouge your wallet. I feel like you should spend your money on lttstore.com instead. Look at these sexy wan sweatpants. It's time to put my feelings aside though. Not every product is targeted
at enthusiasts like me and you. So, let's play a little game and say, we're already paying for Norton 360 or it came free with
the purchase of our PC, and we would rather trust
a big name we recognize like Norton versus spending a
bunch of time doing research. I mean, it's a couple of
clicks and who cares about 15% if it's all profit anyway, right? Why not let your GPU mine while
you're at work or sleeping? Okay. So the app itself
is actually kind of okay. It shows you the current US
dollar to Ethereum conversion, the card that you'll be mining
on, its average hash rate and both your daily and
monthly expected return. This all seems great for the most part, but it ignores some
basics like telling you how much wattage your GPU is
pulling or more importantly, factoring those power costs
into it's calculations. It also doesn't bring up a
client window showing you what exactly is going on. When you join a pool on your own or usually through a third party, there's typically a client app involved that shows you important stats
like, among other things, hash rate, power
consumption, job acceptance or network info like
latency or dropped packets and it'll kind of scroll by as
your machine does it's thing. Maybe that's too scary
for the target audience or Norton felt it was unnecessary,
but whatever the case, it's just not here. Another missing feature
is any sort of optimizer. Often when you're first
setting up a new minor, you can run through an
optimization feature that will try a number
of power, core clock and memory clock settings
to get the best results for your specific hardware. It then saves a config file somewhere that the miner can read
whenever it's booted up. And if Norton is doing this
in the background somewhere, it isn't very good. You know what else probably
won't be very good? Water cooling gear from wish.com. Get subscribed so you
don't miss that video. Now I know that a lot
of you consider NiceHash to be controversial. So we don't work with them in
a sponsored capacity anymore and we're not promoting their use here. But we needed a control
that we know is easy to use. So we fired it up on our test bench, which will have affiliate
links for down below, first using NiceHash's QuickMiner then for another hour with Norton Crypto. And here's the thing, it's
normal for your return to fluctuate somehow throughout the day, but the results were staggering. With Norton Crypto, our 20 80 super on an open air test bench, hit 65 degrees, pulled about, 160 watts
and saw a maximum hash rate of 37.2 mega hashes per second. With the QuickMiner,
after running OC tune, we pulled about a hundred to 105 Watts, hovered around 50 degrees Celsius and had a higher hash
rate averaging closer to 40 or even 45 mega hashes per second. Now obviously the winner here
doesn't surprise us much. Do we trust the experts or the newcomers? But I did not expect a performance gap the size of the Grand Canyon. 65 degrees might seem fine overall but we anticipate a lot
of users to be on laptops with hot components in a
more enclosed environment. That 65 could easily turn into 80 degrees or higher in the right
or wrong environment. And don't forget that power is expensive in some parts of the world. So that 30 or $40 of monthly income could come with a hefty power bill. And you'll also be paying Gas Fees, a small or sometimes not small fee when you want to exchange your Ethereum. And the best part is that if the sucky
performance isn't enough to keep you away, there are even more problems
with one of the biggest being how hard it is to remove Norton Crypto from the rest of Norton 360. Now actually enabling
the software is optional but installing it isn't, and
to get rid of it, you need to temporarily turn off Norton's
tamper protection feature, then delete the encrypt executable. Now some other users have
also mentioned things just not working from time to time or suddenly empty wallets,
both of which are frustrating but, at least you can usually
find an answer from Norton in the comments. So far, it looks like they only have
plans to mine in Ethereum, although they will look
at potentially adding other currencies in the future. In case you didn't know, Ethereum is supposed to
go from proof-of-work, which is what's currently happening when you joined the mining
pool, to proof-of-stake, which instead uses staked to Ethereum to validate blockchains
and add new blocks. It's meant to be much
more energy efficient, but to be a staker, you need 32 ether, about a hundred thousand us dollars worth. Fear not though, staking
pools are already a thing. So the little guy isn't
completely shut out and the full transition has actually been pushed back a number of times but once it happens, there's no telling what
Norton Crypto will do next. Whatever it is, I expect that it'll reflect
their obvious attitude over there which is; Hey, you're already stupid
enough to waste your money on our software, you're
probably stupid enough to share a disproportionate
amount of your mining profits with us. Perhaps the worst part of all of this, is the obvious conflict
of interest that exists. Norton has a clearly inferior product. It performs worse and costs more, but they can use their position
as a trusted malware blocker to allow their product to
work while scaring users away from better competing products. But what they be so brazen as
to do that, the answer is yes. So I have no doubt that this endeavor will be insanely profitable for Norton. They get 15% of your ether and
you pay for both the hardware and the abnormally high power consumption. I just can't figure out anyone
else who is benefiting here. Except maybe our sponsor. Thanks KiwiCo for
sponsoring today's video. KiwiCo is a monthly subscription service to help introduce and make stem topics fun and engaging for kids of
all ages. KiwiCo believes that if you start learning
small things today, you can produce
world-changing ideas tomorrow. Each crate is designed by experts and contains everything
you need to complete it, along with detailed
kid-friendly instructions. That means no trips off to the
store to get extra supplies like glue or scissors. KiwiCo offers nine subscription lines, each catering to different
age groups and topics. And the create that we're showing here, is a Kiwi level for
kids ages five to eight, that looks at chemical
solutions and crystal formation. Another one is the tinker
level for your tweens and teens aged nine to 16 that explore spool
mechanics and toy design. KiwiCo is a great way to keep kids and their adults occupied for hours, and they now ship to over
40 different countries. With KiwiCo you're not just
teaching your kids to buy, you're teaching them to build. So go to kiwico.com/ltt50 to
get 50% off your first month of any crate. Thanks for watching guys. If you enjoyed this video and
you want to get into mining at home, maybe check out
our mining adventure series where we show you a much,
much smarter way to do it.