- It's absolute freaking chaos today. It's moving day, day two. And Yvonne and I have to run
and do this sponsored VR thing. So, basically, we're letting
logistics loose on our house with no instructions other than we put some pieces of tape on things and those things need to move. Will the cat tree end
up where it needs to be? Only after coming back from
that VR thing, will I find out, will I tell you about our sponsor. Build Redux. Build Redux offers competitive pricing as compared to building a PC yourself. Their website makes it easy
for you to configure your build alongside their helpful support guides. Head to buildredux.com/linus and start creating your PC today. (upbeat music)
(digital chirping) (upbeat music) - In all seriousness, the goal today is pretty straightforward. We only wanna rent a U-Haul for one day, and that means everything big. Dining room tables,
couches, beds, wardrobes, (clears throat) enormous cat trees has to move today. Unfortunately, it is spitting rain today and we don't even have the garage to use as a staging area because of all these go-karts that were completely legitimately
obtained from the office. I mean, could you resist? They're so fun. Truthfully, I have no idea how
they're gonna pull this off because the kids have made
such a mess at the house in the last few days while
we've been getting ready to move over at the other house. And, especially, a lot of our tech stuff is sort of complicated. Cable managed and wired through the walls. Hey, kitty. Sorry. You're gonna have to stay
in here today, sweetie. - Hey, Dan, has Yvonne talked to you about garage contents
or anything like that? - No. - Okay. Good luck. - Are we moving the trampoline today? - Not today. Long story, but we're not using the U-Haul for that. We're gonna roll it. Stop.
- Okay. - Luke, enough. (laughs) A wild Luke makes an
appearance, by the way, he's coming to the VR thing with us. - Hello. - Maybe he'll help us move later. - Yeah. (lively music) - So the other guys with the
truck are still on their way. I've been left here alone with Andy, Linus's house. We're gonna start by just
organizing a couple things. I've already cleaned out the garage. Was a little bit messy. There was a lot of crap
all over the ground, which we don't wanna
track back into the house. These go-karts are really heavy, too, but I think we'll be okay. We've got some boxes. We've got a way through to bring all the furniture in and out, because we're moving stuff
in and out in the rain. Hopefully I'm not by myself. So my hope is that these are leaves and they'll just come out. So it's got this neat
gear system in the middle. I don't know if, Maybe Linus table tips. How many of you at home
have a table in your house? Answer down in the comments. We also need to move all their
furniture in their bedroom. Their beds and their dressers, and unfortunately they haven't
really had time to tidy up, so there's stuff everywhere. They're also not attached to each other. This dresser here is gonna
fall and kill someone, maybe. It's a little awkward, honestly. I haven't known these two very long and now I'm going through
their underwear drawers, grabbing all their stuff
and putting it in boxes. And I'm in their house alone. Feels weird. - Luke and I are gonna take
go-karts to the new place. It'll take a little longer, but he's never ridden them in. (Linus laughs) You know, you look like Bowser on the tiny little cart. Woo. Oh, shoot. I overcooked it. All right. See you there. - What's up, ladies and gentlemen? Oh that's a spicy meatball right there. - I'm not gonna try that. (laughs) - Just don't wanna hit the walls. - Hey, look. Someone's straightened the thing. - Yeah. Dan did.
- Dan did it? Nice. - [Luke] After you made it crooked. - Pivot.
- Oh. You wanna go down the ramp. I see.
- Yes. - Oh, you wanna go this way. - Yep.
- That makes sense, actually. Oh, wait. You wanna carry it vertically. - Yep.
- I had this completely wrong. I thought we were gonna tip
it horizontally off the edge. - Do you think that would've gone well? - I don't know.
- Okay. - Hard to say. I used these cool suction things to put the chargers onto our nightstands. They could lift the nightstand by, - Oh, my goodness.
- Yeah. - Well, how do you get it off?
- They're not permanent. You just have to get between them and kind of, Because they're that same stuff that you used to be able
to get for your phone case to stick it to glass. - Oh, okay. - It's just that. - Yeah. So you just- - But you just get it really
clean before you stick it, hold it on really hard, and it's like... - You can literally lift
the whole nightstand. And that's not a light nightstand. - Yeah. - Here. You can take your cricket in. - Well, I was gonna help you with the bed. - No, we need- - Sure. - Yeah. We need more than a
can-do attitude to lift the bed. - Okay. You know what?
- Wow. - I say that stuff just to
make her make that face at me. (laughs) It's so funny. I can't get enough. I do wanna go off the edge for this one. - Okay. - And what I'll do is,
I'll just already be here. I'll assume the position. - Okay. (laughs) - And then we'll,
(laughs) Okay. Am I under it all the way? Might need to, Oh, there we go. Okay. Well, I can see the stairs, the issue is anything above the stairs. - [Alex] Okay. Are we going up? - I think so. I think that's where the bedroom is, so. Oh, boy. Oh, no. - Corner.
- Yeah. It's flexible. She's a flexible boy. Who let one rip? - Ow. I tripped. I'm good though. Then you and I are gonna
grab this cat tree. - Whoop. Okay. Leg right in the way. - Sorry, hon. Sorry is the most
important word in marriage. Even when you're not sorry and you don't even know
what the problem was, just lead with it. It's good. Okay. So I think the plan is to
bring it to this corner. We never actually did a sanity check on the size of this thing, so can we see if it fits?
- Yeah. - Oh, that's not bad. Now we're gonna tear all of this off it. We've got new carpet because, as you can see, the original's a little worse
for the wear after 10 years. But what we'll do then is, we'll move this shelf down a little bit, we can put that light
fixture back together, and, in my opinion, is a
perfectly legitimate accent for a classy living room. Now I wanna add like an extension. Coming across this way?
- Yeah. How awesome would that be? If they had little shelves up there the cat could just perch
up there and watch us. - [Luke] That's exactly what it would do. - Wait, what are you guys doing? You're taking the table out.
That's coming in the back. - No, no. We're just taking the leaves because they were gonna fall over. - No, I'll just ride in the back. - No, no. - No. It's fine. - That's what Luke said. - You all were wrong. Okay, I'm good. Let's go. Seriously. We're going nowhere. Luke will stay here
and make sure I'm safe. - Is anyone going to back me up? - I've already said no, and I'm the biggest one here. I can throw you around like nothing. - I'll be fine. I got this. Come on. - I give up.
- Let's go. - Editor, this didn't happen at all. - Bye. (door shuts) Nothing but a jar of dollies. What have we got for supplies, Luke? - We got no food.
- No. - We got no water.
- No water. - [Luke] But we'll survive. - But we got crazy eyes. (door rolls up) - Ah, okay. - We died. We died in here. - It's been so long. - No food. No water. Oh, where'd that washer come from? - Well, it might explain why
we've only had four washers. - [Linus] Out of... - I'm assuming eight.
- Eight. - Dan took this apart. - [Cameraman] What if we just
put it flat on the ground? - Dan goes home, immediately
starts getting blamed for absolutely everything.
- Yeah. 100% of the things are now Dan's fault. I love it. (somber music) The crew is running back to the old house to get some plastic bins and stuff. It'll be a little easier in the U-Haul. They're leaving me here
to make myself useful. So I figure I'll rip all
the carpet off the cat tree. - It would be much more useful if you could do things that
were putting things together that we just took apart, rather than taking more things apart. Yeah. Is that okay? - Here. Can you hold this for a second? - Yeah. She's screwing me. Screwing me. There's something I wanted to do, and now she's, - Okay.
- You ruined my shirt from lttstore.com. - Is it okay?
- Yeah, it's fine. - Okay. - Oh. (chuckles) Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Good girl. Okay. Oh, I'm all wet, too. So unhappy. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Would you like to get down now? The boy decided to fill
this one based on size, not weight. The thing about a bin full of books is it's, basically, like
holding a giant freaking log. And that's everything, which means that now the real work begins. The work of telling you about our sponsor. - Squarespace. Do you think making a website is hard? Well, it is, but it doesn't have to be. With Squarespace, you'll have
your website up and running in a matter of hours. Squarespace has award-winning templates that will help make
your website stand out. Say goodbye to the drab,
GeoCities inspired, Hellscape, and say hello to Squarespace. Plus, if you're interested
in how your website is doing, they have built in tools to help you find out
what you're doing right, and what you're doing wrong. And both of our Linus Media Group and LTX Expo websites were built
quickly, using Squarespace. If you ever get stuck making a website, they have a 24/7 support
team ready to help you out. So head to squarespace.com/ltt and you can get 10% off today. That's right now. Just do it. Just do it. 10%. - If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe go check out the previous episode, which was a little more tech-heavy, but definitely equal in
terms of shenanigans, maybe more.
(upbeat music)