- Is that a gray hair? Time to face facts. I'm not a young man anymore. It's time to stop acting like it. (hip hop music playing) God, you know what? I think I'm good. All of this, it really isn't me. But after spending the last month with the Porsche Taycan 4S, I can finally say I get why
some people are into it. Believe it or not, I haven't gotten a lot of
double takes in my life. So driving around in the
Taycan made me feel cool in a way that I've just never gotten to experience before. Like who wouldn't want to know something about the 30 something in
a car that's worth more than a year of their salary, right? Add in the fact that this
is the most fun I've ever had on four wheels, and
the big question becomes: why did you just give the keys away? Truthfully? It's because
everything from sitting behind the wheel to seeing
it in my garage makes me feel like it's too good for me. But explaining why is
gonna take a little while. So have a seat. Today's video is brought to you by KiwiCo. KiwiCo ships out crates
that contain hands-on projects for kids to help
develop their creative confidence and problem solving skills. Learn more at the end of this video or at the link down below. (upbeat music playing) Walking into a Porsche
dealership is the most emotional experience that
I've ever had shopping for a car. Starting with
overwhelming confusion. The Taycan is built as the
most customizable Porsche yet with 90 options to configure. And, while the representative
did try to guide me through the experience, most
of the stuff is honestly better explained through Porsche forum posts and of the $40,000 worth
of options on this car. Some, like the larger
battery are totally worth it while others feel more
than a bit excessive. Then I went on the test drive
and boy did that ever stir up some different emotions. Just so it's clear to everyone, gear head, don't care about cars at all? You all need to stop
comparing Teslas to Porsche's. One feels like operating a giant RC car. And the other one, the other
one feels like driving. According to Porsche,
the 4S model makes 482 horsepower and 479 foot pounds of torque. - Feels pretty good to me! - But this is really fun. Stratified automotive,
who happens to be not only a YouTube channel, but also our neighbor in the complex we work in, came over. They saw this thing in the
parking lot and they were like "Hey guys, we would love
to throw that on the Dyno." And we found out some
really interesting things. Number one is that Porsche is actually
overselling the horsepower on this particular model to the
tune of about 50 horsepower. But we weren't too salty about it, because the reality of it is
it mostly comes down to torque. If you want to talk about
how peppy the car feels and it turns out it actually
has 184 more foot pounds of torque than Porsche rated it for. They are seriously underselling
the kick of this thing. Sorry, guys. your heads okay? - No. - You got a concussion over there. I really cannot overstate
how much pull this thing has. So foot on the brake foot on the gas, that puts you in launch control. And all we got to do is release the brake. You guys ready? Brandon, get your head
against the head rest. - There we go. 0 to 60 in 3.8 seconds. And that's it. That's about as much fun
as you're going to have on an actual road. The suspension in this thing
too, is just unbelievable. Somehow it manages to smooth
out even the bumpiest roads while also feeling firmly planted. And I guess you could kind
of call it a downside, but one of the effects of
that is that doing 100, 120 down the freeway feels
like 10 in a parking lot. It just really is an other
worldly driving experience. Just make sure you keep
control of your lead foot because especially in
this color, I don't think you're getting off with a warning. - When you're at a track and
allowed to push past what you're legally able to
on the roads though. Oh my God, this thing is fun. So in normal and sport modes you push on and you get
a bit of under steer. It's pretty good, but now I'm
going to chuck it into sport plus. We have traction
control totally off. Bring her into this corner here. Nice and balanced and on the gas. (tires sliding) Oh my God, you can do big slides. Holy crap. Now what makes this
different than a normal car? Well with most cars you get what's a MacPherson strut suspension. So that's, you know, shock on
top of the bearing carrier. Whereas in this thing right here you have a Double A arm suspension. So you're able to have much better control of how the tire hits the
road during the whole travel. Now just handling on the track isn't the hardest thing to do. What's difficult is to have
great handling on the track while also not destroying
your back on the road. Now Porsche has two things
that allow you to do this. The first is an air suspension. So that allows you to raise
it up, to go over bumps and drop it right down low for, you know, track use like this. But what I like even more
is the adaptive dampers. So dampers resist changes
in speed of the suspension. So without them, you know,
you just start bouncing up and down and how they
work is that oil is forced through a bunch of little holes. Now by changing the size of
those holes, you're able to change how much it damps
to take it from you know, able to do, (tires squealing and laughing) that to, you know, making them a little bit bigger so that
it's nice to have on the road. In my opinion that should
be on every single car that's above like $30,000. Now, as fun as this is,
there's a lot wrong with this. And pretty much all of it
has to do with the tech. Although I want to do one more drift. (tires squealing and engine roaring) - Everything about the
Taycan's interior is laid out logically. At least I assumed that's the case. If so, it must be some
kind of higher German logic because my misadventures with the controls and infotainment system started with not being able to turn off
the heated steering wheel during my test drive and basically
went downhill from there. My eight year old son suggested
tapping the steering wheel in the ventilation configuration menu which, I honestly thought
was a pretty good idea but that didn't do it. So we resolved to just ask
when we got back to the dealer. It turns out its down here The learning curve on this thing is steep. Even after you read the owner's manual. But then even after
that, there are a bunch of really annoying things that
auto makers have had figured out for decades, but
somehow got broken when they translated them to a touch screen. Every time the car is
turned on, for example, the driving mode gets reset to normal and regenerative
breaking gets turned off. Why wouldn't it just be
exactly how I set it up the last time I was driving? Especially because you have an
individualized driving mode, and who at Porsche thought that this climate
control screen was better than physical knobs? Changing
the temperature takes forever. You should be able to
just swipe this to go in larger increments. Also, you can't physically
control the vents. They're done on the touchscreen,
which would be mostly fine. Tesla does it, but every
time you change where the vents are facing, it resets
the fan speed to auto again. Why?! Possibly the most
egregious thing though is the display dimming at
night, where you have to go deep into the menus and find the
brightness setting, adjust it, and then go back and do the same thing for every single display. It's a really good thing the adaptive cruise and
lane keep are excellent because that's a lot
of distracted driving. So much of it just feels half-baked. Like, kind of like the
engineers tested this thing on the track went, "man,
this is fun to drive" and then called it a day. I mean, even Bluetooth Audio is sub par. Pairing your phone is
fine, but this is just about the clunkiest
media control experience that I have ever had built into a car. Repeat song outright
didn't work for me at all. And why does the first
second of my song cut off when I go back a track? I can literally buy a $20 dongle on eBay that doesn't have that problem. Now, a fair few of these
things could easily be solved by simply plugging in a type C cable and using Android auto. Could. Except that the Taycan only has CarPlay which is why I had to
daily drive an iPhone while I was doing this review. And if you don't happen to have an iPhone that you can just switch to when you're driving your Porsche, you're just going to have a terrible time. Now I remember being warned on Twitter to make sure that I evaluate this car in the proper context. "It's focused on driving." They said. Okay, but here's a question
for you. Is listening to music, not an integral part of driving? The Bose speaker system sounds great. So clearly Porsche thought it was. What about being able to quickly
and easily navigate menus with a responsive touchscreen? Is that integral to
driving? Tesla thinks so. I mean, heck, even Volkswagen, Porsche's parent company can do it on a car that
is five times cheaper. And, what is this? If I click on phone, for
someone with only one number it will prompt me for which
thing to call including email. What am I going to do with email from behind the wheel of a car? I'm sorry, Porsche apologists. There is only one word
to describe this kind of deficiency in a vehicle
that costs this much. Excuse. If the infotainment is an integral part of the driving experience,
then it should be good. And if it isn't, then maybe
it just shouldn't have one. Seriously. I think this would
actually be a better car if three of these displays were gone. For all of my gripes,
though, there were a lot of things about this car that were just on a completely different level. As I mentioned before, the
adaptive cruise control, it's awesome. I was finally able to use
this feature without my wife feeling nauseated by the jerky stopping and starting, like she was in the model Y. And since I'm making that comparison, having proper windshield
wiper controls is something I never thought I'd have
to give out a gold star for until I used Teslas,
horrible touchscreen ones. Not that I even needed them here anyway since Porsche's rain
sensors were way better too. The parking camera can
be configured in a number of ways to suit your
style, and it automatically engages when you approach a
parking spot at low speed. It's pretty nice. The seat comfort and adjustments were beyond anything I have ever
experienced in my life. And again, the ride quality. - What I find hilarious
about the tech line inside the Taycan, the adaptive cruise control,
auto wipers, parking sensors. As far as I can tell it's
exactly what's in my Golf GTI. All my Golf doesn't have though
is crippling range anxiety. Porsche have done so much
to the extend the range of this thing from the flaps that close when the radiators aren't needed. These vents here that
create a curtain of air around the tires to help reduce drag and just the overall shape
which isn't just beautiful, but slices through the air so well. But maybe it's the
weight of my right foot. I found out I was going
through the charge surprisingly fast, although Porsche thought
of a solution to that too. 723 volt fast charging. And when it works, it's amazing. There's a charger in a park near my house. So I go walk the dog,
come back full charge. And it's for a fraction of
what a tank of gas would cost. When it works. Only two of the seven
fast charges I've tried actually worked. Two are actually slow
chargers, two are broken, and one just straight
up didn't exist anymore. I almost got stranded last night after three in a row were broken. And this is in Vancouver! I thought the charging
network was pretty good here. Apparently Tesla's superchargers are solid but they won't let me use
them due to billing problems. Yes, sure, Elon. - For my part, though I can see the below average
range being a disappointment for some buyers, but as someone who's not into road tripping and who
has a charger in my garage I don't foresee any point in the future that that would be a problem. Like 300 miles is more than
enough for your daily commute, and enough for the vast majority
of your Sunday adventures, which will be mind blowing by the way. The Taycan, more than any
other electric car yet, gets me excited about the
future and the advancements that we're about to see. It proves to me that
electric cars can be fun and engaging in a way
that Tesla's just aren't. But while the Car-ness is
great, as a tech enthusiast I think it's fair to say
that Porsche has still has some homework to do. Things like the charging network. Those will almost certainly improve. But the infotainment system
is a big question mark for me about this vehicle. Common sense would dictate that they can fix that through updates.
It's just software. But that assumes that the team has both the drive and the
leadership to improve it. And that there's a desire from Porsche to look after
these early adopters, instead of just fixing it in the
next model year facelift and leaving this one to depreciate hard. If I had 160 grand to spend,
should I roll these dice then? Or just keep waiting? - And for me, the bigger question
is why should I take part in this experiment when the GT3 exists? It seems like Porsche have landed on the perfect internal combustion engine. And with emission regulations
getting tougher and tougher who knows how much longer
they'll be able to make it. It would be a shame to miss out on that. Though, the plus side of
this experience is that when they do kill the flat six, what's coming around the
corner will not disappoint. - Just like our sponsor won't disappoint. Thanks KiwiCo for
sponsoring today's video. KiwiCo is a monthly subscription service that helps make stem topics fun and interactive for kids of all ages. They believe that if you learn small today you can produce
world-changing ideas tomorrow. And with KiwiCo's crates each
month you'll get a themed kit that'll help you learn
about specific topics. Each crate is designed by experts and contains everything
you need to complete it. That means you don't have to run off to the store to get extra supplies like glue or glitter or whatever else. The crate we have here
is at Kiwi level for kids ages five to eight that teaches
programming and robotics. And another one is the Eureka
level for your teens ages 14 plus, that help highlight
basic engineering and sound practices. KiwiCo is a great way to keep
your kids occupied for hours. And you, if I'm being honest because you'll have more
fun if you do it with them. And if you check it out
today at KiwiCo.com/linus you'll get your first month free. Thanks for watching guys. If you enjoyed this
video, go check out our Tesla model Y video I'd say that's probably
worth seeing the comparison. They're so different. It's like one of them's a
rolling infotainment system and the other one's a...car.