- Windows 11 is great. I mean, this baby packs so
many features, like better HDR, better multi-monitor
support, better search, and there's only, there's only a few little
bugs to work out that- Okay. It has some problems. And these are 11 of the ones that have
been driving us most crazy over the last few weeks. And this is a message from our sponsor. Thank you, SmartDeploy
for sponsoring this video. With SmartDeploy IT can
deploy windows, apps, bios updates, and security
patches to any device, anywhere from the cloud. Get your exclusive free
software worth over $570 at smartdeploy.com/linus. (upbeat electronic music) First up on our list is a
seemingly minor complaint, but it's one that could hide
something much more sinister. As of writing, there were a few core tools that were just straight up
broken on Windows 11 launch, the snipping tool, voice
typing, and the emoji panel. Now, Microsoft is already
rolling out a patch and by the time you watch
this, it'll probably be fixed. But the issue is that these broke because Microsoft's digital certificate expired on October 31st. Why are core parts of the operating system dependent on these digital certificates that can just expire? If you have the Pro version and suddenly you can't use
a feature you paid for, that is simply unacceptable. Speaking of buying Windows 11, unless you pay extra for the Pro version, good luck creating a local offline account without logging into
your Microsoft account. Many of you already
have Microsoft accounts and there are real world
benefits to using one, like account recovery through the cloud, but this solidifies once and for all the idea that while Windows
is becoming free to use, you are almost certainly
paying for it with your data. Once you've logged in, you can create as many local accounts that aren't linked to
Mr. Gates as you want, but your windows 11 ET
will need to phone home during setup, or you are basically hooped. We haven't actually
encountered this one yet, but there are reports online of the Windows 11 driver update tool actually downgrading the drivers that you have installed for your GPU. So for now, you're best off
completely ignoring the tool and sticking with your direct download from the Nvidia or AMD website. Oh, and by the way, did you notice the menu
breaking in that clip? Well, multiple staff members here at LMG have reported File Explorer
just randomly crashing on them. It's happening to Jake
three to five times a day. And after the first couple of times, it really starts to get on your nerves. I mean, we expect some
crashes here and there. It's not like Explorer doesn't
hang in Windows 10 sometimes, but when a core feature
like this fails repeatedly, you can't help but get
this anxious feeling, like there's always a storm
cloud following you around. Speaking of which, where's
my weather, Windows? You took forever to put the
weather thing in the task bar, and then, now, just as I had
gotten used to it, it's gone, hidden away in the widgets. How will I know that it's
going to be a cold day and I need to grab my LTT
beanie and stealth hoodie from lttstore.com? Also, right clicking the task bar no longer gives you the option
to bring up task manager and no longer gives you the
option to anything at all, except for task bar settings. And while we're at it, why the heck can't I see
my clock on every monitor? I want to game on my
main display, you know, the one where you've
inconveniently glued the clock, and I don't want to alt tab out of my game or pull out my phone to see
if I should have gone to bed two hours ago. Ah, gaming. If you're running an AMD CPU, you got off to a pretty bad start, with up to 15% performance loss in games due to a scheduler issue. Thankfully, the patch for that seems to be working for most people now. But now, it's Intel that seems to be having
their own troubles. We've had to do more hard resets
in the last couple of weeks than in the last couple of years, playing a mix of both older games, like "Dota 2" or "Slay the Spire", and newer ones, like "Forza
Horizon 5" and "Deathloop". It might be the new auto HDR feature that's causing some of this fuss since what we've seen the
most is with multiple monitors suddenly going dark and then the entire PC
becoming non-responsive. But at this point, the only thing we know absolutely for sure is that it's pretty annoying. Now, for some more multi-monitor woes. These come in the form
of weird scaling bugs that we just keep encountering. Basically, if you have scaling set to 150% and open the settings menu
in your secondary display, it'll open scaled to 100%. You can then move it back
to the primary display and bada bing, bada boom, it's fixed, but this kind of window dance shouldn't be required in the first place. And neither should fussing
about with the updater. It worked perfectly fine
for some of our staff, but Jake had to do a fresh install and we've seen similar complaints online. To be clear, we always recommend
fresh installing a new OS for the cleanest, most
bug-free experience, but keeping all of your programs and files is supposed to be possible and makes for a much
less painful transition for most people, so it'd
be great if it worked. Another annoyance that
started with what we thought would be a pretty cool
feature is the overflow icons. It's pretty straightforward in theory. You take apps in your system tray and then put them over onto
the right side of the task bar as overflow icons. Pretty nifty. Unfortunately, these icons often become impossible to right click and interact with while a game is up. So what's the point? You know, you hit the windows
key to bring up the task bar, you right click the icon and nothing. Which, you know, maybe you would think, oh, well, that's because
the game's launched and you can't interact
with the system tray icons. Except if you put them
back in the system tray, they work just fine. (Linus grunts angrily) Now, let's talk about the rounded corners. These have been causing a
fair amount of controversy. For my part, I don't mind the look, but they need to be easier
to expand and resize. Currently, it is too
difficult to grab the corner in order to perform these actions because Microsoft in their infinite wisdom removed the corner. Looks great, feels un-great. Now, the fix is pretty easy. Make the sweet spot bigger
for the mouse cursor, or just add an invisible
corner to every window, but it's gotta be done in order
to improve quality of life with Windows 11. Also, right clicking on the desktop used to be a great experience. You get all these relevant options that are now hidden away in a submenu. And the worst part
isn't that those options aren't being hidden away, it's how many of these submenu options are actually just repeats
of the previous menu. Like, why? Yes, the new quick options
at the top, great feature, but you could have added those without tacking on a seemingly
pointless extra step. As for the start menu,
there's a lot of empty space and it can take a bit to load too, which is something I
thought we'd moved past after Windows 10's growing pains. Furthermore, if you start
typing to search for something, it switches you over to the search window, which just feels unnecessarily jarring. It doesn't even morph smoothly
into the other window. It just jankly brings up the search menu while dropping the start menu. At least, it does the
first time you do it, just like we're going
to be putting together a one petabyte SSD server
for the first time. Get subscribed so you don't miss that. And don't think we've forgotten about you, Mr. Windows search. You were the chosen one, finally to be focused on
helping us find our files and applications. But no, Microsoft decided that web results should still be the priority. Now, to be clear, it is
better than Windows 10. Way better than Windows 10. We just feel that a tiered setting, web priority, local priority or local only would allow it to be
all things to all people rather than, well, an
annoyance to many people. Now, we've mentioned often that
being an early adopter sucks and while many folks
are actually reporting a hassle-free experience with Windows 11, a fair few are squarely on the other end of the suck spectrum. Hopefully the next six months to a year sees the majority of these
issues ironed out, though, because as painful as
broken Windows can be- Get it? 'Cause glass, painful. (Linus chuckles)
He laughed a little. I haven't found my month
long transition to Linux to be any easier. But what is easy is
transitioning to our sponsor. Micro Center has partnered with ASUS to offer a new, easy to
use online PC builder tool. The tool helps customers
build their own computer with three different base starting points, value, performance, and ultimate. Each base system will include a case with a pre-installed
motherboard power supply and separately packaged graphics card so you can just add your choice of CPU between AMD and Intel, as well as your preference
for RAM, storage, and operating system. The parts can be arranged
for same-day in-store pickup or for an added build fee, Micro Center will assemble
the computer for you. If you're unsure of what parts you need, Micro Center's expert technicians can walk you through
selecting your components. So go check out Micro
Center's new PC builder at the link down below
and check out the link to how to receive a free 240 gig SSD, if you are a new customer. Thanks for watching, everyone. Have you updated your OS yet? Swapping over to Linux instead?? If you enjoyed this video,
maybe go check out part one of our Linux Daily Driver Challenge. We definitely ran into some issues there. The answer is nothing's perfect.