We're doing induction - or not induction,  it's up to us and I want to demonstrate here two 
cases of induction. If I press the first domino, all right - wasn't perfect but you got the point.   And let's see what's going 
to happen here if I press Oh! And the last one fell down, because I was 
trying to demonstrate infinite induction with   the white dominoes and finite induction 
with the black one- black ones; and we   will see how this ties up with our problems. 
So some of you have seen induction before.   While I'm explaining the basics, you 
try the following problem on your own:   take any square and into how many smaller squares 
you can cut it up? So I want to know the number n   of smaller squares - all of them. So can 
you cut it up into seven smaller squares?   Into 2021 smaller squares? And of course when 
you're cutting it up, it means no overlaps and   no funky business. It's like tiling on the 
wall - everything goes exactly in one spot. So what is induction? Induction 
is a scheme, or rather a vehicle, that you use to get from one point to another - in 
particular to prove your mathematical statement.   But induction doesn't work without the 
driver, and you will be the driver.   You need to come up with creative ideas to 
fit within this vehicle. So let me give you   a problem that you may or may not have seen 
before; it's a very famous one: find how many   subsets does a set with n elements have. So 
what am I talking about? If you have three   people, how many groups can you extract from them? 
And so you can fiddle around and maybe you will   come up with the answer: 8. That seems like a lot 
but actually that's the case and we will show it.   And then you try with perhaps four people and, you 
know, you count count count and you come up with   16 and of course you start seeing a pattern 
and you're saying, oh maybe the answer is   a certain power of 2. And the power of the 
exponent looks like it's the number of people,   or the number of elements. And at this point you 
say I'm going to conjecture that the answer for   this problem, which I'm going to call S sub n 
- so number of subsets if you have n people,   is precisely 2 to the n where n is greater than or 
equal to 1. And now that you have this conjecture   induction can kick in. One of the drawbacks of 
induction, not to disappoint you but I have to   tell you right away, is that you need to know the 
answer ahead of time, induction by itself is not   going to tell it to you. But once you have it or 
some annoying classmate of yours gives it to you   pretending they know too much you can use 
induction and try to prove it. So how do   we prove this particular warm-up problem? So 
induction starts with turning on the engine,  your key, ignition. So we're going to call it 
the BS, base step. Usually call it base case   but BS really caught you. So base case or base 
step: n equals to 1. So for one person how many   subsets do we have? Well we're supposed to show 2 
to the first 2. Of course I can have this person A by themselves alone and where is the 
other subset? Brady do you see another   subset here? (Brady: Is it no people?)
- Yes! No people, we forgot about them.   Great so that's true, we are done with the 
BS. Next I'm going to do something called   inductive hypothesis - IH. So I'm going to 
make a bold bold assumption: we shall assume   our statement is true for some n greater than or 
equal to 1, and by that I mean a natural number.   I'm not going to tell you what this number is, 
and that's the key, because I want a general   frame that works. And then the creative part 
of induction, this is where you come in, how   to show that the next statement is also true. What 
you saw with the dominoes, we place the dominoes   close to each other so that when one domino tips 
the other one is also going to tip and fall over.   That is precisely what we are doing. We are 
assuming that the nth domino falls and is   going to trigger the n+1st to do the same thing. 
Okay so in this problem we want to show that if   you have n+1 people that means you have 2 to the 
n+1 subsets. Okay how does this work? Here are my   n+1 people - I'm just drawing a few points, n+1. We're 
going to call one of them Brady and Brady will   either be selected on a team to go to the moon or 
not. So we want to know how many such teams we can   send to the moon from those people. So if Brady 
is not selected, so Brady is not happy, he's not   going to go to the moon, how many teams do we have?
It means that we are choosing teams or subsets   from the remaining n people. But we already 
assumed that our statement is true; in other words   for n people I have 2 to the n teams or subsets. 
Ah-ha - so if Brady is not participating I have 2 to the n   teams. Now, if Brady is participating how many teams? 
Well what is such a team? Such a team will contain   Brady and probably a bunch of the others right?
But then such a team means that I have to choose   the non-Brady part and add to that part Brady. 
So Brady is not relevant again unfortunately! I   just have to choose a team without Brady, 2 
to the n of those teams by our inductive   hypothesis, and then add Brady. Okay so how many do 
we have now overall? All I have to do is add 2n+2n, so that's 2 times 2 to the n, 2 to the n+1 teams. 
Excellent. So we just showed the inductive step   and here, if you want to be absolutely formal, 
you want to receive a receipt for your proof,  you have to make a conclusion. The conclusion 
says: therefore all statements Sn are true   for all n greater than or equal to 1. This 
seems like a lot to say but actually that   is the domino effect. If you believe that when the 
dominoes are placed close to each other then once   you push the first one all of them will fall, then 
you should agree with this. Or alternatively, let's   think about Grindelwald - evil magician. Okay so he 
does all sorts of bad things on an island, the good   magicians gather together and they're gonna exile 
him. Upon leaving the island Grindelwald casts an   evil spell: if it rains one day it's gonna rain 
the next day. It rains today, will it rain forever   Brady on this island, what do you think?
- (I think it will yeah.)
- Yeah and so it means that Brady believes   in the method of mathematical induction 
because in this example with the evil spell   what is the BS? The BS, or base step, is it rains 
today. What is the inductive hypothesis and the   inductive step? Well that's the magic spell. The 
inductive hypothesis would be if it rains one day   and the inductive step will be therefore it's 
going to rain the next day. And so we're going to   conclude that in this case Grindelwald will win. On 
that island it will every single day. So you might   think about the domino effect it's a little bit 
more optimistic, but either way will work. Now just   a little bit of a switch here; once you realize 
that the statement for the number of teams   was correct for n greater than or equal to 1 you 
start asking yourself, can I slightly extend this?   Does an action always have to start with n equals 
to 1? How about n equals to 0, would that work?  So if you have no people how many teams do you 
have? Brady, what do you think?
- (2 to the 0.)   2 to the 0, which is 1 and what's 
that team? That's the empty one. Wow so   we are extending actually our formula to one 
more case. And indeed induction can start from   wherever the statements uh are true. It could start 
from 10 or you can even start it from negative 5. So now we are ready for the squares, remember? Into 
how many smaller squares can we cut up a square?   Without any monkey business, no overlaps, no other 
stuff. So n is going to be the number of squares   and then we will say whether we can do it or not. 
Okay, so if n is one obviously we can do it, this is   our square, there is nothing to talk about. But once 
we start going higher things get trickier. Brady,   just think and tell me one of those cases 
where you think it's definitely possible   to split a square into smaller ones. 
- (4)
- 4, yes, and how do you propose I split this into 4 smaller squares?
- (You cut that in half vertically and horizontally.)
- Correct, and we're gonna call this   the window technique; we see a nice window 
here. So 4 is fine. Anything else? Umm   I could use this one?
- (You could- you could window all those squares?)
- Oh I can window in one of those   and how many did they get? Did they get 8? 
- (No, no, I've got 7.)
- What happened? So 7   is okay but what happened? Every time you use the 
window technique you are replacing one square   with four, which means that you are adding only 
three. So once I have 7 what else would I have?   - (10.)
- 10, because we will start adding 3s here, 
excellent; and obviously I can have then 13   which is out here. But now what? I still have 
some gaps, what I'm going to do with the others?  This is not so easy anymore; maybe I'll help you 
unless you've already discovered how to do it.   Is there a way to do it for 6? Now we have to 
be more inventive okay? So suppose for a moment   I split this into 9 squares right? And everyone 
agrees into 9 it's possible, so that's   possible; and then I'm going to use only some of 
those for my 6 squares. In particular these 4 squares will be now lumped into one large square. 
Well how many do they get? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,   6 - ah! So 6 works and then from 6 on - oh 
this is really fun - because I know how to do 9,   that was our original cutting, but now I have 
another way to do 9 right? I can use the window   technique on my 6 and split like that. But at any 
rate we now know that with the window technique   we can go and cover another long sequence of of 
ns here: we can do it 6, 9, 12 - umm I wonder can   we roll back to 3? Can you possibly do it with 
3? I can't quite see it so let me just let this   boil a little bit, simmer on the back burner. 
Something else - how about 8? Can we do it with   8? What we did with 6 can be generalized for 
8. So for 8 you could in principle do the   following: cut the side into four equal parts, just 
those two sides, and then go straight only along   some of those, and finally cut up the remainder. So 
you're gonna get 1 large, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 total - so 7 small squares, so that's 
8. So we are done for 8 and that will   trigger 11 with the window technique, 14 and 
looks like we are fine from now on. So Brady what   do you conjecture based on this table, when is it 
possible from where on is it possible? 
- (Well so far) (it seems like it's possible from 6 everywhere 
onwards. That's where the dominoes start.)
- Correct.    Yeah and actually that's what I will conjecture. 
We will conjecture that this is true, or possible,   for n greater than or equal to 6.
- (Why are you conjecturing it? I feel like you've proven it.) Well I said "and so on". Every time when you start 
saying and so on, etc etc, it means that you   are applying induction in disguise, you're just 
not communicating this to your audience. Now   if you were a seasoned mathematician that would be 
enough for them, they know how to formally package   this kind of situation into induction. But 
if you're just starting with induction,   you haven't done it before, you 
may need a little bit of help here.   And before I show you how to do this 
formally I want to answer the questions   for the remaining gap. So what is going 
on with 2, 3 and 5? The answer here is   no for all three of them. So these are kind 
of sporadic cases where you cannot do it; but   the proof that it is impossible for 2, 3 and 5 is completely different from induction. And in fact showing it for 3 may not or may be 
helpful for 5 but definitely that's not going   to be an inductive proof. Wo what shall we tackle 
first, the induction or those sporadic cases? What   do you think Brady? 
- (I'd like to get rid of those sporadic cases.)
- First? Okay, I'm going to leave   2 for homework because after you see the cases 
for 3 and 5 you may quickly finish off   for 2. So let us see how it works for 3
and 5. So suppose you can split the square   into three smaller squares, so we're reasoning 
by contradiction. I'm going to use then three of   those smaller squares and push them onto my bigger 
square - so this is the one I want to tile. There are   some ground rules here: they are corners in my 
big square. Well how many little squares can I   use in a corner here? Can I use two? I don't think 
so, because once I start doing things like that   it's going to come out of my big square and 
that's that's no good. What we conclude from   here is that every corner of our square will be 
covered by exactly one of our smaller squares,   that's what everyone should agree on. Okay, but 
then we are in trouble because how many corners   do I have Brady? 
- (You've got 4.)
- And I have how many squares did we say? (You're aiming for three.)
- For 3. So what must happen? One of those small 
squares better cover two corners or else we just   can't do it. Let's say the green square is going to 
cover the remaining corner, but what happens then?   - (Overlaps)
- Overlaps and I covered the whole thing 
with it - well, that's against the rules. Now let   us do it with 5 squares and show that it 
is impossible for 5. We have 4 corners, so in this case we have an excess of one little 
square. And as we reasoned before I cannot have a   single square like the green one cover two corners, 
because it will cover the whole thing immediately.   So somehow the fifth square has to be in between 
the others. But now I have leftover sides like   right here between those two adjacent squares, so I need to cover those those parts too.   Is it possible for one small square 
to cover two opposite pieces like that?   (Only if it's the size of the whole square.)
- Exactly and I will let this for you to play around and   see it's just gonna cover the whole thing. So our 
fifth square is going to dominate everything and   immediately show a contradiction. Okay, We still 
don't lose hope, we say okay we cannot cover   two opposite ones. Maybe I can cover two adjacent 
pieces? What will happen? In that case it means that   this brown fictitious square; well its sides still 
have to meet it's going to go over our blue square   and we don't want that. Again we don't lose hope, 
we say fine, I'm just going to restrict to covering   only one piece on the side with my fifth square. 
But that means that all of the remaining black   pieces here have to be covered by the original 
four squares. So I have to enlarge them in order to   do this. Okay, so I will start enlarging the purple 
and the green one; they don't have to meet in the   middle they can meet a little bit off like that, 
that's fine. I can start enlarging the blue one, yes, and I start seeing trouble. Now the red one is 
supposed to meet at least the green or the blue   one, not both right? But if it starts meeting 
let's say the green one what what do we see?   We have covered everything, there is no 
place for a fifth one and we are overlapping.   If I do for example try to meet the 
blue one I'll again do the same thing.   So you need to label the sides probably x,
1 - x, and so on and so forth, go around and really   complete this argument. But visually it is obvious 
there is no place for the fifth square anymore. So   we cannot do it with 5, we cannot do it with 
3 and for homework show that you can't do   it with 2. Now where is the induction here? 
Mathematicians will tell you that if you can   prove a statement without induction, in 
other words directly, go ahead and do it,  but you may not see that direct way. And that's why 
I'm going to demonstrate for you something called   strong induction. We need strong induction here 
in order to technically wrap up this solution. So   how does it work? What is our base step? It turns 
out for strong induction you may need several   base steps; and you can easily convince yourself 
that you will need three base steps for 6, 7 and 8. And you will say n equals to 6, 7 
and 8 and you will demonstrate for all these   three cases which we already did. Now what is the 
inductive hypothesis? Now, this is going to be tough   because I'm going to seem to assume more than 
what I did before, but in fact these are equivalent   methods. So I'm going to assume all statements 
S sub n, where n is the number of small squares,   are true for all and from 6, 7, 8 up to somewhere 
let's call it k. So I'm just not going to tell   you k. But note what I have just done: I have 
assumed a whole bunch of statements including   my three base cases. If k is 8 we are done, 
I'm not doing anything extra, but if k is more   I'm actually making an assumption. So what do we 
want to prove? Inductive step is the creative one,   we want to show that S sub n+1 is true. So what 
does it mean? That we can go one further case   higher. Now why is this happening? So I have gone up 
to n, just imagine the real line. We know that 6, 7, and 8 are true and and maybe some more - let's 
say up to here this k - and now we want to go   one more higher right? So let's say n+1, as I said 
my variable's a little bit funky but that's okay.   So why is this case true? As we saw messing around,
the initial messing around with the problem,   in order to do 12 you wanted to go back 
with three steps and kind of undo one window   technique, and that's precisely what you're 
going to do here. You will go back three steps.  Do you still land on a statement that is assumed 
to be true or did you accidentally fly outside   and land it on 5 which we know already is 
not true? The answer is no, you are still within   the cases that you assumed were true because you 
have this barrier of three base cases that don't   allow you to fly over them when you subtract 3. So 
you again land on a statement that is true, so you   have some square that you have somehow partitioned 
artistically into sub-squares and all you have to   do is go back by adding one window technique to it 
and three more. And that way you will show that the   next statement is true and then you will do this 
magic conclusion by the method of mathematical   induction, all of those statements are true. This is 
indeed using the method of mathematical induction;   they're direct proofs. I can give you a hint: 
first do this problem for let's say a very large   even number - what's such a large even number? 
Like 2,000 - can you directly divide it into 2,000?  You can do something like 6 and 8, what 
we did before. So I will split the sides into - how many sub-squares do you think Brady? A nice number.
- (Any number?)
- Any- no it has to work. See for 8 we cut it down into 4, for 
2,000 maybe we should cut it into   1,000? So you're gonna cut the side 
into 1,000 squares and then you will   draw these lines and continue doing your small 
sub-squares and one large. How many do we have?   You may think we have 1,000 plus 
1,000 plus 1 but you are wrong because we   are just over counting this corner. So you have to 
subtract that and bingo you have your 2,000.   I think this example is general enough for you 
to try even numbers right away - and then how would   you do an odd number? If you add 3 to 2,000 you get 
an odd number, so you just have to hit one of those   little squares with the window technique and you 
will get odd numbers. Okay, so you can wrap this   up into a direct proof that will nevertheless 
use two cases: even numbers and odd numbers. And   you still cannot get 5, there is no way you 
can get 5 because if you go three backwards   you're gonna land on 2 and that's the first 
and only even number for which this is impossible. Let's try to throw pies at each other. I'm sure you 
have seen those all black and white movies where   everyone's having fights and pieing each other
- (Not 3.14 pi, actual pie)
- Actual eating pie. And   the funny thing is we're going to call it 
the odd pie fight but it's not that the   pie's odd but the number of people involved 
is odd. So you have an odd number of people   and and they're standing somewhere so that 
no two pairs have the same distance. So   if I take any two different pairs of people, AB 
CD I will see that AB is not equal to CD. And   this also applies to the same person, for example 
AD here has to be different from everything else.   Pairwise all distances are different, you 
have an odd number of people and let's make   it interesting, at least 3, because for one 
person you know you're not gonna pie anyone.   And what do they do? Every person looks at 
the closest to them other person and pies them. For instance, there are 5 people here and 
it looks to me that C is closest to B - C is   gonna pie B. What's gonna happen to E? E looks 
like he's going to pie A. A probably is gonna   pie B. B looks like he's gonna pie C. And D- D 
is very far, I don't think anyone is pieing D  but D has to throw to someone - I don't know maybe 
E. All right, if you were in that fight what would   you like Brady to happen to you?
- (If I was in the fight I would want to not get pied.)
- Correct. So do   we have a survivor always? In this picture we can 
see that D is definitely a survivor but does   this always happen? Unpied. So that's the 
beauty of the problem. Under these restrictions,  odd   number of people, pairwise different distances, 
there is always a survivor. So let's write this   conclusion: there is always a survivor. I'm not 
claiming uniqueness or any other funky things,   there is always a survivor.
- (I've not seen that symbol before?)
- Oh, Brady we're learning every day.   And 'there exists' a survivor and you look 
at this and you say how can this have anything   to do with induction? Of course it has something 
to do with induction - most likely because there   is an n. These are infinitely many statements, this 
is like the dominoes. But which statements are we   really concerned here? We want S_3 to work for three 
people, we want S_5 to work, S_7 etc etc.   S_2k+1 - all of the odd statements; and induction will 
help us show the implication, or if you remember the evil spell. We're going to keep on implying 
like that. All right, so let's see how this works.  All right, what's the base step for three people?
What kind of triangle can this be? It definitely   cannot be equilateral, can it be isosceles? 
- (No, because it has to be pairwise.) No, that's right so it has to be something   called scalene right? We will label vertices here.
You know in those old movies: Laurel and - what was   the name Harry? Hardy? Hardy and Laurel. So 
let us use L and H for them. I have L and H like that   and Brady's gonna complete the picture.
- (Wow, I've just joined the most famous duo in comedy history!)   Yup. So in this love hate triangle what's going 
to happen? Since it is a scalene triangle I have   three different sides. And without loss of 
generality, as mathematicians like to say, I'm   going to say that a is - what do you say, less than 
b less than b? Something like that okay.
- (So A is the smallest?) Exactly! So what's going to happen with L and H?
- (They're going to pie each other?)  Yeah, Laurel and Hardy are pieing each other and brandy 
is watching from far away. What is brandy? Brady! (You got Hardy wrong, you're allowed to get Brady wrong)
- Absolutely but that B person, what is he gonna do?   He he has to pie someone and it looks like 
c is less than b so Hardy gets pied twice and we have a winner - Brady survives. Great, we've 
done S_3. Now by induction we know how to proceed.   Inductive hypothesis: we shall assume that - and this 
is not going to be strong induction like for the   squares it's going to be a regular induction but 
sort of skipping because we don't care about the   even cases. So assume that S_2n - 1 is true, so 
this S_2n - 1 is the previous statement here,   for some n. What should this n be and cannot 
be 1 because it's going to be S_1. So how about   greater than or equal to 2? Because if n is true 
you're going to get your S_3. And we want to show   inductive step that S_2n+1 is true. Now I'm going 
to use finitely many points, a small number so you   can see how it works. For instance let's say we are 
trying to show the 7th statement but exactly   the same idea is going to work for any n. So how 
many points do we have? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,  and let's be on the safe side 7. Okay so we've 
got 7 people. We want to immediately eliminate   some, and we go for the smallest pairwise distance. 
In other words which two people are closest to   each other? Looks like those two, and of course 
we're going to call them L and H - Laurel and Hardy.   So they're going to pie each other because they're 
indeed closest to each other. Now what's going to   happen with the remaining five people? We are going 
to cool off our discussion and ask them to play   another game, just temporarily, a game only amongst 
themselves. Only those five people play the game.   But that's the previous statement and we have 
assumed that the previous statement is true.  So what's going to happen for those five 
people? There has to be a survivor, just for   those five people with this new game, someone 
survives this new game. So who's gonna survive?   Brady survives this new game. What would you 
like Brady to happen in the old game with you?   You definitely want to survive the original 
game with seven people. If you survive this   one with five you'd like to survive the original.
And I claim that you will. So whoever survives   the smaller game, I claim that person is gonna 
survive the original bigger game. Okay, so now   those people who played the five person game turn 
around and start playing the seven person game.   Will any pie be thrown to Brady? So what- what 
do you think? Well what happened before was   that any one of those five people playing 
the new game, they never threw to Brady,   so they had a closer target to throw. So in the 
new game Brady is not the closest person to them;  because they already have someone closer so 
from them nothing is going to go to Brady.   But what could happen? Could a pie be 
redirected from the new game to the old game?   To outside to L or H? The answer is yes. Maybe 
this person who before pied someone else here   is going to pie Hardy, that's possible. So 
some of the pies in this new game could   be redirected to go outside to Laurel and Hardy. 
Could Laurel and Hardy pie someone in this game?   No, because they're the closest to each other 
under any game. So no pies are going to fly,   no new pies are going to fly inside our this 
this blue game, which means that Brady is safe.  He didn't get pied before he's not gonna 
get pied now either. And that concludes the   inductive step and now we conclude the whole 
induction: by the method of mathematical induction   all statements are true. In other words as soon 
as you have odd number of people positioned at   different pairwise distances there will be a 
survivor. Brady should the survivor be unique? (How do you mean?)
- I mean for every game there 
should be exactly one survival? Is that always   going to happen? I mean if you have two people very 
far away from kind of the other ones it looks like   they might both be survivors?
- (They could both throw 
pies into like the center of the solar system)   But not- nothing could go to them. So I'm not 
claiming that this is a unique survivor is all I'm   saying, but I claim that there is a survivor. 
And now for homework you can try to create situations   where there are more than one survivor; so there 
is exactly one survival. For fun to see really   what's happening. But what's the burning question 
that comes when you solve this problem?   (Even number of people.)
- Even! Why did we exclude the even pie fights right?
Let's see is S_2 true. If you   have two people at pairwise different distances - 
but there's only one distance between them right - Laurel and Hardy, there is no survivor, they're 
just gonna pie each other without question.   So we already see that for two people we can't 
have it. Well, but you say this is this really very   simple, maybe I could prove this it's true for 
a big bunch number of people - even number right?   For example how many, 18. Why am I saying 18?
Because here is what we're going to do with   those 18 people: I'm going to construct for you 
a counter example. In other words I will show you   that S_18 is not true. We can put them in a valid 
configuration where there is no survivor. So what   do we do with 18 people Brady? We marry them 
off in pairs disregarding their preferences.   Just for the sake of mathematics, they'll 
do it. And now that we have nine pairs of   so-so happily married couples we send them 
off to the nine planets in the solar system-   I'm not gonna argue about Pluto, don't 
even ask me. Okay, and we give of course   to the newlyweds a pie. Okay, assuming that they 
actually survive you know conditions on these   other planets what's going to happen Brady? 
- (They're going to pie each other.)
- In pairs, the the spouses are going to pie each other, 
there will be no survivor. Why is this happening?   Because the planets are so far away from each 
other they outweigh any individual distances   on a particular planet, and that's why there will 
be no survivor. So the problem makes absolutely   no sense for even number of people. But there is 
one little glitch that you should have considered:   how about this business with different distances? 
Could we relax that? Could we allow same distances?   You would say, well if I'm at the same distance 
from Laurel and Hardy and Brady then whom do I pie?   Give them a choice. And will there 
be still a survivor? Could we   be always sure that there will be a survivor?
The answer is no; because the simplest situation   of odd number of people that form an equilateral 
triangle is going to be a counter example. They   have a choice. So let's say Laurel decides to pie 
Hardy and Brady decides to pie Laurel. Is Brady safe?   No, because Hardy could choose to pie Brady. And 
so in this situation you don't have a survivor.  So if you give this freedom of choice 
to people with possibly equal pairwise   distances there may not be a survivor so 
you cannot relax the conditions of the   problem. The perfect problem is exactly what 
we solved: odd number of people at pairwise   different distances. 
- (And just to be clear, you can 
have an even number of people and have a survivor?)   - (But you've shown that there's always a- you could always do it- )
- Absolutely, you   can put all of the other - how many people - 2019 
people inside this room and send Brady to the moon,   right? Who's gonna touch Brady? Brady is untouchable 
and he will survive that even game too. So it is possible. We're not finished with induction 
just yet; in fact in the next video Zvezda is going   to go back to 1988 and the legendary question six 
from the math olympiad which she managed to solve   using - you guessed it - induction. There are links 
on the screen and in the video description.   ...really poorly the night beforehand, 
I basically didn't sleep. I was so   tired I knew that if I don't solve the problems 
very quickly I'm just not going to survive   the test. And they give you four and a half hours 
for three problems every day, so this is day two...