- [Narrator] A portion of this video is sponsored by Salesforce. Watch 'til the end to learn more. (upbeat rock music) (record scratch) - Uh, yeah I would! And we did. Not the whole PC, mind you, just the case, but believe it or not, there
are plenty of options out there for cases that you can download
and print for yourself. Tons for tiny PCs and Raspberry Pis and even some full size
options like these ones. After a bit of browsing, we
stumbled across this beauty by Impericus. The OPF-1. We were like dang! But it gets even better. We checked out their
profile and found the OPF-2 and this, this is the one. But we had a small problem. While the Prusa i3 MK3Ss that we have in our print farm here
are great work horses, they don't exactly have
the biggest build volume. So we had no way to print the
OPF-2 unless we sliced it up into tons of little
bits which could be done but would involve a lot of gluing, which wouldn't be the best
for structural integrity. Not to mention that it would
take a really long time. So we made a call to
the fine folks at E3D, and if you don't know who E3D is, they're one of the top manufacturers in the 3D printing world. Primarily known for their hot ends, so that's the part that
melts the plastic filament and their extruders, the
part that pushes and pulls the aforementioned filament. A few years ago though,
E3D built something totally different that
would push the boundaries of 3D printing as we know it. The ToolChanger. This bad boy is not
for the faint of heart. Colin needed three full
weekends to assemble it but the finished product
is unlike anything we've ever used before. E3D very specifically and intentionally does not market it as a 3D printer. They refer to it instead,
as a motion system. Let me explain what that means. Because it's not an off the shelf, click and print machine, you can configure everything about it to
your exact specifications. So we started out with a
fairly standard config. Four chimera 3D printing
heads, all set up identically with .4 millimeter nozzles
but with each loaded with a different color of
filament in case we wanted to give our case a little flair. By the way, our filament
spools are down here in this Repkord filament storage chamber that's even got our little
desiccant pouches in here, actually has a built-in humidity sensor. Pretty sweet. To give you an idea of the flexibility that this affords though,
maybe more colors, maybe that's not your thing. No problem. Throw some dissolving support
material on one of them or maybe you prefer a
variety of nozzle sizes so you could do the bulk
of your print really fast, just laying down big old
thick lines of filament without sacrificing quality
in the fine details, bringing in a finer head for those. But none of what I said
makes it a motion system. This does. Wanna laser etch? Chuck a laser diode onto one
of these nifty tool plates and (snaps fingers) away you go. What about a milling cutter
to get perfectly machined surfaces? Or even a pick and place head
if you want to build your own PCBs. No problem. Hell, you could probably reflow
them right on the print bed. This thing runs on mains
voltage and heats up like you wouldn't believe, peaking at about 200 degrees Celsius. And the duet 2 wifi and expansion board that runs this whole thing,
it's legit a small computer plugged into the back of the unit. It can support up to seven
extruders and a crazy amount of inputs and outputs, all while hosting it's own web server so you
can control it remotely, which is super handy for 20 hour prints. Which is what this took. - I feel really bad
that I didn't get to use the full potential of this machine but with some of these
prints being over 20 hours and the timeline being really tight ... When a print fails 12 hours into a print, all of a sudden I'm set back a full day. So for most of these prints
I just used one extruder just to simplify things. - Yeah, this is really cool but um ... - Yeah. - The results are a little,
they're a little rough. - Yeah, that was actually accidental. So one of the hard parts with this printer is you need to slice it. You need to take your files
and tell it where you want the colors to be. - Yeah. - And there is not a lot of
support for ToolChangers. In fact, I used Prusa Slicer 2.4 Alpha 1 which came out like days
before I needed to start printing things here and it
has pretty good support now but it was a mess trying
to get this thing working. - The good news is a bit of playing Lego, not with this (laughs),
and a few 632 screws later, and we end up with this . Surprisingly rigid too,
which is kind of crazy considering that it's all
just made of hollow plastic. - Yeah, I think it's 20 (drowned out) - Am I gonna break it? - I hope not but worst case
scenario we'd just make more. - That's true. Man, and this is such a unique shape compared to what you could do with metal. This would cost a fortune to CNC. Look at some of these curves and stuff. You just couldn't. - Yeah, the harder part is holding things when you're machining. So how do you fixture that
so that it doesn't just go sproing when you're machining? And then the tool grabs it
and chucks it across the shop. - No idea. Stuff like this. - [Colin] Big pockets. - [Linus] Really tough. - [Colin] Insets. Can't do 'em. - [Linus] Some of these
arches are really clean. Wow! - So some of these parts we did on Prusas, if it would fit on the build
plate just 'cause I needed to get more parts done
in a set amount of time but other parts, they're too big. So they had to go on the ToolChanger. - Okay, what did this part? - Uh this part ... - This is clean. - I think this is actually,
it barely fits on a Prusa. It's within like three millimeters. So that's right off a Prusa, no tuning, and that's why they're so great. - Fun fact, our Prusas
actually use E3D hot ends so the work was also done on
an E3D component, at least. So let's see if I can find one that's done on the big boy then. - [Colin] What you're
holding there in the center was done. I didn't put enough top layers on that and so you can actually see the pattern of the infill on there. - Oh yeah, the infill. Yeah, I can see it. Step one is for us to heat
set all of the inserts. You can actually see we've
got these super handy, these are actually the
same thing that I used back when I did that build
in the underside of a table. So these little insets,
they have a threaded part in the middle, so that's
where you screw into for the motherboard or for a standoff, and then they have this
kind of knurled or textured outside. So what you do, with wood
anyway, is you put them into a pre-drilled hole
and then you hammer them in but obviously, that
would not be a good idea with a case like this. So we are going to heat. I've never actually done this before. - Yeah, really easy. So we got a Hakko 888D, my
favorite soldering iron, and it's at 669, nice. - [Linus] Nice. - [Colin] And you just pop it in there and wait for it to heat
up and it will sink in. Look at that. - Oh, wow! That's clean, boys! - Yeah. - That's insane! Now, I just have to
make sure I get them all at the same depth. That's super cool. Do we have extra standoffs? - [Colin] You mess one up? - [Linus] No, no, no,
I mean do we have more than what we need? - [Colin] Oh yeah, we
have every size we need. - So we made it compatible
with any motherboard then? - Pretty much. It's ATX now but it'll
fit everything smaller than ATX. A lot of this build was
just finding fasteners. There's no instruction manual with this. So everything had to be figured out. - I don't actually see
enough clearance here to put standoffs. Are we supposed to screw
it directly into the back? - [Colin] Standoffs. - Oh, we're using plastic spacers. - Yes. - Oh. Okay, all right, I
guess, yeah, that works. My concern though, is just that ... Oh yeah, okay. - Getting them in is going
to be a real challenge. - Uh yes, I see that. - [Colin] Yeah. - The spacers do appear to
be the right height though, so that's good. That was a concern. Here's what we're gonna do, Colin. - Okay. - I've got an idea. - [Colin] Oh no. - We're going to go backwards. Upside down. - Uh oh, oh. Mm-hmm (affirmative), Mm-hmm
(affirmative), I get ya. - Okay. So we're gonna put them all on here. Wait, these are not all the same height. - Yes, they are. - This one's not (piece clanking) (laughs) All right. Thankfully we have some extras. Actually, we had one extra. Oh crap, I need my screwdriver. We gotta ... - Oh, no. - Yup. - But I have ... - Lttstore.com. Okay, here's the idea. It's gonna take teamwork. I've got all of the spacers in place and I am going to hold this like this ... - And then I'm gonna
drop this on top of that? - You're gonna put the case on top and then I'm going to screw
it in from the underside. - Okay. - Oh god. We're not even close. (laughs) - Oh, there comes one. - My mouth got talent, yo. That's definitely going. Okay. So the board's on there at the very least. - Well, kind of. Let's do one more up here. - Okay, there. That's using your head. - Okay, we got three. Now, the rest we can put down here. - Okay. Awe, this is gonna look sick! All right, let's get the CPU in. Because it's an open air case,
cooling is not a concern. So we went for some of the
hottest, most performance components on the market
including a Core i9 10900K. We could have gone 11900K
but we misplaced it. (laughs) - By we he means me. - Quantum Magnitude CPU block, thanks EK. (moaning) So nice. Don't worry, the aluminum
doesn't actually touch the water so it's all good. Hello? Oh, there ya are. (gasps) There you are! I see you. - Got a Seasonic Prime 1000 watts. Very nice. - That's really smart. As well designed and
relatively strong as it is, taking the heaviest parts and
putting them at the bottom- - Really down low. - Definitely a good idea. - It's good for stability, right? You don't want them sitting way up here. - Yeah. - [Colin] This is EK's FLT 240. Now, this case is designed
to run the FLT 240 that has an integrated pump in the back but it didn't show up on
time so we're just gonna use the standard res and then we're
gonna run a standalone pump behind it and just VHB it on the back. - [Linus] Oh that looks awesome! - [Colin] Yeah. - Oh, that's sick! I'm not as into EK's re-imagined
CPU block mounting solution but it does really good
once it's installed. For ram, we've gone with a
set of 3200 MHz CL14 sticks from G-Skill here. Can't go wrong with those. Man, this is gonna be
a wicked fast machine. I mean if you're gonna
download a computer, you better download a fast one, right? It's free real estate. (both laughing) For our boot drive, we went
with a relatively pedestrian 500GB Crucial P5 and then
for our mass storage, we went with these 5300 Pro SATA SSDs that are 7.68TBs each. Oh, this is a cool mount. - [Colin] Yeah. - Not the prettiest thing
ever 'cause it looks like you're intended to have the
interface facing the back but you can put up to three SSDS in here, that's super cool. This is chonky. We went with an Asus RTX 3090. 24 GBs of GDDR6X memory. A board that's almost as big
as the freakin' motherboard. It absolutely dwarfs
the rest of the machine, which was already pretty
freakin' overkill. Oh my goodness, it sticks
way out of the freakin' case. - [Colin] On hindsight,
it might be too big. - No, no! It's exactly the right size! I love it! - [Colin] I just wish we had
the active backplate for it. - I know! So we'll have to keep an eye
on VRAM temperature on the back but realistically, with
water cooling on the front, open air case like this, it'll be fine. Oh, interesting. So the fittings come off the front. - Yes, so here's the plan. So the fittings come off
the front, it'll tuck under, goes through this very convenient hole, and then we're gonna have
the pump sit back here and we'll VHB it. And then there's a little
slot if you look front-wise. - [Linus] Yep, I see it. - And then that's where
water will come out, go up, up, rad, rad- - And then down. - And then back down to dump here. - Oh, in the top here. - Yeah. - Interesting. - So we're gonna have two
rads and then we'll have a little joiner up here. - Got it. Make this front-mounted
fitting look not so atrocious is to make a fitting snake. Gonna be a lot of o-rings here. - Not more than Des' PC. - [Linus] We went full mad
lad on this one. (laughs) - [Colin] Okay. (laughs) - Wait for it. Yep. - [Linus] Nice.
- [Colin] It's in. - For the water cooling,
I used two right angles and an extender along with a
regular compression fitting to get a nice, clean look to
the front of the case here. And it comes out right over here. We're going GPU priority on this build, it's getting the coolest
water and then we're going up to the CPU. We talked about this in our
roasting your setups video but clean soft tubing
definitely looks better than crappy hard line. And are we going dual rad here? - [Colin] We're going dual rad. - Oh, that's awesome. - [Colin] Heck yeah. - You might say it's rad. - [Colin] I know what you're thinking, how the heck does this go? - Oh, the fans go first. - Yes. Mount the middle fan before you put it on and then it sits on top of these two fans. - Uh-huh. - I think I forgot to get one
and three quarter inch screws. So the fix there is I go to fasten all and I get screws. - Um, I think we can fix it another way. We just need open corner fans. - Okay.
- That's all we need. - So we just go find open corner fans. - Let's go find some open corner fans. - Okay.
- BRB. And this is why it makes
me so angry when I see radiator optimized fans
that are closed corner because when you're open
corner, you see this? You have so much more
flexibility for accessing screws, right? Whereas when you have
a closed corner design, Noctua's is semi-open, you
can't really get in there because the head of the screw
won't fit into this gap. So here's how it works. We've got open corner, 632
screws going into the case here. Then we've got screws going
all the way through the fans into the radiator for the other eight. So it's gonna be
perfectly, firmly attached. - [Colin] Yep. - Actually, probably better
than most of my radiators end up being. - One of the nice things
about this material is it has a very low shrinkage rate. PLA shrinks like ... - I was gonna ask about that. - It shrinks a couple percent. - These are such big parts, you can't ... - The shrinkage rate is
like 0.8 or something. - (laughs) That is sick. - The cost to make molds to injection mold these parts in plastic or
machining would be crazy. - [Linus] Yeah, just not feasible. - This was two spools of $30 plastic. - [Linus] Not bad. - Less than $60 of material. - This makes me feel like an early 00's McDonald's commercial. (hums) Baby, 'cause I am lovin' it. Hold on a second, Colin, I
might have made a mistake. - How grave of a mistake? - Um ... Not too grave. - Oh, you just didn't
plumb it in the pump? - Yeah. - (laughs) Okay. - I went right past the pump. - Yep, yep. That's fine. Just chuck an elbow in there. - Okay, good luck, everybody. Here we go. Cuttin' it. Yeah, it really is too
bad we don't have that one with the built in pump. - Well, I mean ... - Would have been perfect! - It's comin'. - What we're gonna do is
we are going to kind of hang the pump there. So I'm just gonna jam this barbed fitting, this is a classic EK
fitting here, 3/8 inch barb, really big barb head on it. It's gonna kinda friction fit there. (grunts) Okay. - [Colin] Okay. - It's on and it just sits right there. - [Colin] That's pretty good. - It kind of works, right? - [Colin] That totally works. - Okay. - [Colin] Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. - You ready? - You gotta warn me before
you start tipping things like that. - Ready, you ready? We're good, right? We good. Oh God! - Uh ... - (groans) That was not a good noise. Um okay, but this tube is on now. - [Colin] You know if it
breaks, I'll just print another. - Yeah. - This looks sick. - This looks absolutely awesome. - This looks absolutely sick. Should we put color in
or just water in it? - Water. All the cool kids run pure water. They know what's up. - This is the front. - Wait, this is the front? - Really, the front's
wherever you want it to be. - I guess yeah, the front is ... - Whatever you want to show off. - Yeah, but there's no front I/O so you'd kinda need access
to it at the very least. You could just face it, it looks so good. - Like it's presenting. - Yeah! - Yeah. - A little awkward. (laughs) This is the workplace I created, I get it. Man, this thing must've
been so much work to design. We talk about how difficult
it would have been to manufacture this in
a conventional manner but even just designing
something with this many curves and contours is not easy. - Actual true design where
you're taking something from a concept to a
fully fleshed, beautiful industrial designed thing? That's hard. Can I get an lttstore.com cable tie? - We've sold through them. - You know what we
haven't yet sold through? (grunts) Look how cute he is! - Get your own Linus plushie. We've got bearded and un-bearded. I'm havin' a thought right now. - [Colin] Is it a dangerous thought? - From an aesthetic standpoint, I would prefer to go from here to here but from an ease of use standpoint, I would prefer to go from here to here. - [Colin] I think it
looks better that way. - You think so? - [Colin] Absolutely. - Then that's what we're doin'. - Yeah. Okay, I think we just need power cables. While Linus was out filming PC or no PC, go subscribe so you don't miss that, the wiring's been tidied up,
the loop has been filled, and I've run a few
benchmarks to get some ideas on performance. We even tossed a mild
afterburner overclock on, raising GPU core clocks
300 MHz and 900 MHz on the memory and a quick
run around Cyberpunk 2077 with video setting cranked
all the way to insane and it did a rock solid
60 fps with DLSS off. Turning that on to balanced
gave a 25% boost in frame rates up to around 80 fps. Similarly cranked
settings of Battlefield V, made for a very playable 110 fps at 4K with our temps under load
settling at around 60 degrees. Totally fine. To make sure it wouldn't
melt, I left a particularly spicy benchmark loading
overnight and thankfully, it didn't melt. It's still here. - [Linus] Yay! - Woo! Little bit of RGB and
fan management in iCue and we end up with what we have here now. The cable mod cables really did a number to keep everything super tidy in the back. There's no real place to hide the cables and it's kind of okay. It's an open frame case,
I think it looks great. So thanks again to E3D for
this beast of a printer. To Prusa and Repkord for the
filament solutions underneath. And of course, thanks to
SalesForce for sponsoring this section of the video. SalesForce makes it easier
for your small business to adapt to evolving customer needs in an increasingly digital
work from anywhere world. By using SalesForce,
you'll be able to generate new business and develop relationships with your customers right from your CRM. Send messages to specific
lists of recipients, getting as broad or as
targeted out as you like, create a help center
page for your customers and assist in getting the
answers they're looking for. You can also meet your
customers where they're at to better assist them by
connecting your email, phone, and social channels and
easily respond to them right inside of the SalesForce app. Request a demo or get started
for just $25 per user, per month. Head to salesforce.com/linustech
and try SalesForce today. Thanks again to SalesForce
for sponsoring this section of the video. And that's a wrap on this build. If you want to see some more wild builds, check out Desk PC, that was a slog, and that's got some 3D
printed builds in it.