- You can't have
computerized numeric control without, of course, a computer. And while the Linux PC embedded
in the door might be weak, the mill that it's attached
to is capable of chewing through solid titanium. But to hell... (sputtering) But to tell the whole story
of this amazing machine, I need to go back in time, in time, in time, in time. Today's video is brought
to you by GlassWire. Are you worried someone
else is using your WiFi? GlassWire can alert you
anytime a new device joins. Use offer code LINUS to
get 25% off GlassWire at the link in the video description. (upbeat music) We've all been there. You bring home your
new furniture from Ikea spread everything out on
the living floor and go... Living floor. Kill me. Spread all the bits and pieces out on the living room floor and go, "What the heck was I thinking skimping "on the assembly service?" Well, this video is that, but on steroids. Due to COVID restrictions, Tormach is not offering onsite
setup of their CNC mills, which means we're gonna have
to assemble it ourselves, all two thousand six hundred and twenty-nine pounds of it. So what do we do? We just
kind of go for it or what? - Ah, it's, I mean-
- Kind of... Hold on a second.
(bang on wood) - This is why we can't have nice things. Oh God. - He's been so excited
to build this thing. - So much! It's just been
sitting here for weeks. - All right. Have fun. See you later! - Now, I get to do the fun stuff. So let's get to look at my new mill. Oh, that's my timer. I gotta go get my COVID shot and it'll take us this long (claps). We're back. Okay. (wood ripping open) Whoooooa. Oh hello. That's my new toy, it's
the Tormach 1100 MX. It spins up to 10,000 RPM. It is an absolute unit. So these are the chip trays. These are what hold the
chips as we're machining, it catches the mess, which our router doesn't
do a great job of already. And they are, big. (bangs) Bong! (wood ripping open) That's a chunk of metal. (upbeat music) It's been two weeks since we started working on this machine and we have to put all of the
sheet metal on the machine. We have to hook up the PC. We're gonna put on the tool changer, and we're gonna get to play with some lovely machine parts. And we'll come back once it's ready to actually start moving again. - Everything about this
looks really expensive. - Yeah. - Look at these. - Yeah! These are all balanced
to go up to 10,000 RPM. - How much did I pay for these? - Well, they also sent a
bunch of pretty carbide. That is a sharp boy. - Uh, yeah. - So that's a three flute, high helix aluminum finish.
- Ow! - Yeah, don't do that. Everything in here is
now turning on and ready. (laughing) - Well, no, I mean, you
told me these things don't stop for nothing, so. Ta-da! I'm not seeing movement on Y. Something's funky with
Y it's flashing green. - I bet you I didn't
tighten the collar enough on the y-axis motor and
I bet it's just spinning. - One of our new engineers
is laughing at me kind of, you know, marveling at this. Knows I have no idea how to operate it. Here's something I know a
thing or two about. Okay. Computer mice. The ergonomics of this thing, they could be a little better. The finest silicone sheath overtop of the most generic Chineasiam mouse. (upbeat music) - I am covered in met chips, This is fun! Let's go flick a switch. (machine whirring) - [Man Off screen] Wuh-oh! Wuhohohohohoh! Uh, is that the coolant pump running? - [Colin] Uh... yes! Maybe it's the uh... automatic oiler. (machine hissing) - Tool changers. How do they work? Okay, let's fill it with coolant. (grunts) (water dumping) Oh, shit, well, that coolant pump's been
running dry this whole time. Did you plug it into an accessory rather than into the coolant pump pump? - [Man off screen] Oh, my god! Yes I did! - Yeah. Okay. Well, that might have destroyed the pump. - [Man of screen] Ahhhhhhgh. - Okay. Is it in the coolant one now? - [Man off screen] Yes it is!
- Okay. - [Man off screen] That's...
that's embarrassing. (water flowing) - Okay. Wooooo! [Man off screen] Heavy? - Uh, huh! (tapping on metal plate) - Now short of pulling
off the CPU heat sink, which appears to be glued on. So I'm probably not gonna do that. We have no way of knowing
exactly what this computer is. Other than that, it's running
four gigs of Kimtigo RAM. It has a 64 gig PCI express SSD, another mini PCIE slot
over here, and a SIM slot. And then this is a funny one. It's got about the bangin-est speakers that I've ever seen in
an embedded machine, but there's a good reason for that, because when this thing is running, it can actually get pretty loud. So if it needs to make a noise that you actually need to hear from inside the sealed enclosure, I guess that's pretty
much the way to do it. Honestly, though, this
little Linux box is not the most interesting part
of the computerized control. Coming past our mist coolant reservoir. We've got, ah, here it is. And it goes, oh oh oh oh oh, so here is the 220 volt transformer. So that's where power gets transformed into all the different voltages that we're gonna need. Here is, oh, this thing is super cool. This pretty much what it is is a gigantic ceramic resistor
with a heat sink on it. And what it does is
whenever you wanna stop the spindle spinning, you
actually need to take the power that the spindle would otherwise continue to generate and
get rid of it somehow. So it's just this gigantic
resistor that just stops it right dead. On the topic of spindle control. Of course we wanna do
more than just stop it. And this puppy right
here is our spindle VFD or Variable Frequency Drive. You could think of this kind
of like a PWM fan header on your motherboard that can make it run at different speeds depending
on how often it pulses power except on absolute fricking steroids. So we can drive the main
spindle at up to 10,000 RPM and all the way down to what?
100 something like that? - [Man off Screen] Yup! - Fancy! The rest of this is cable management, a variety of breakers and relays. Here's another power supply. And that leads to this puppy right here. So this you could think of as kind of like our secondary
brains of the operation, and what this basically does is it takes whatever signal comes out of our Linux computer at the front, and turns it into something that all of our motors can understand. So our X, Y, Z, will all get a signal that
they can interpret from this. This is probably our best
look at the clear path servo motors that drive
the X, Y, and Z axes. So compared to stepper
motors, which are what we use on our CNC router, they're not as torquey. But, they actually know exactly where they are rotationally. So it can relay that
information to the computer. The computer can say, okay, I know exactly where this other one is, and you can actually have
the motors work together. We could actually hard mount our tap, and then we could have both our Z axis, and our main spindle work together, to just drive it in, tap the hole, take it back out, (snaps) and we're done. I actually lied a little bit. This one, is not
technically a servo motor. It does have the same magnetic array and the same hall effect sensor that allows it to know
exactly how many times it's spinning and where it is. It's just that it sends that raw data over to our computer to process, rather than having an onboard
encoder that sends it out. Sorry. However they do it, Tormach has another, even
more important reason for needing to know the exact
position of the main spindle. And that is for tool changes. Now on any normal CNC mill you would need to be able
to change out your tools, 'cause you might have
a different size bit, or a different function bit that you need to pop
into the main spindle. So the way you would normally do that is you line up your little doggies, (machine hisses) oh, there we go. There it is. Look at that! Ha! And then you press that again. Hey, look at it go! But this one is special. This puppy has a carousel that can hold up to 12
different tool-holders, allowing you to do complex jobs with the tools automatically changing. So what it'll do is it'll line it up exactly where it's needed. The tool changer comes in,
grabs it, spins around, pops another one, in the whole thing is pneumatically driven, and the whole job just
(pops tongue) nice -- goes! So cool! Of course, none of does anything without the computer to control it. We've got a pretty sweet
touchscreen interface for it, but whether you're running touchscreen, or a spongy mouse and keyboard, you're gonna be running
a version of Linux CNC called Path Pilot. And one of the coolest things about Path Pilot compared to Mach 3 the control system that
runs our router over there, is that it actually runs at
the speed of the processor. With Mach 3, you send
a command to the board, that then processes, and outputs
step and direction signals to move the motor. That means when you
hit stop on the router, it still has to process
those extra commands, before it even sees the stop. Now you can emergency stop it, but doing that means you
kill power to everything, and you have to re-reference the machine, which is a big boatload of suck! On the Tormach, if you hit
feed hold, and a program, it stops. And we'll show you that, but first, just, I wanna, gotta play around with
this thing a little bit. So if you wanna set your rip-em's let's do 5,000. (machine whirs) Neat, huh? We can stop it. And then we actually put in just a little simple program here. So it's just moving this back and forward, on the X axis, and I'm gonna go, whoa (mumbling) It's held! Ah! Let's stop and reset and show you guys something else that's really cool though. Aside from the tool, and making sure that the path it's gonna follow is right, the main two things you need
to concern yourself with when you're cutting different materials, are the speed of the spindle, and then the feed rate as
the machine moves around on all the different axes. While some piece of metal might be really consistent from
one sample to the next, a material like wood, it
could be all over the place, and you could go, yeah,
2,000 usually good, but, why don't we try to
turn this up a little bit, and see how it goes. You can do all of that
without changing your program, and you can do the same thing
for your feed rate as well. So if I stop this, and
I start my cycle again. (machine whirs) What? Of course you can have all the precision in the world up here, but if your part is not held
in place extremely securely, you're just gonna end
up with a giant mess. And that is where this comes in. So this puppy right here,
is absolutely covered in these threaded holes
that have these super handy little plastic inserts. So what you can do is you can take, say, okay, we want a Mod Vise
here, which is really cool, 'cause it can hold on to just
a sliver of your materials, so you can work on one side then just like shave off the back. We can put a regular vice in here. We could put a fourth access in here. And then what you do is
you tell the machine, okay I've got this offset, for when I'm gonna mount it in that thing. And without redoing
your program, re-zeroing or re-indicating the machine, you're ready to freaking go. Now, one of the most
(grunts) useful things that you can do with this feature, is you can add an additional axis. Neat. Right? So unlike our CNC router, which is perfect for making 2 1/2 D parts, the new mill here, is four axis. This is an A-axis, which is a rotational
axis, along, the X-axis. So you could take apart, and you could actually roll it, and work on the sides, or on the back, without taking it out
and repositioning it. Super neat! Oh yeah. This is a perfect example of the kind of part that, what with maybe two or three resets, you could make in a setup like this the bike pedal! Sort of Colin's old job. That's okay, he likes this new job better. - [Colin] Debatable. - So aspect. What does this go for? - It's like 35-40 grand. - 35-40 grand. - [Colin] Somewhere in there. - Which raises the question, why does a machine like
this cost, like it does? Most purchasers of something like this, would be using it to make money. And there's just a higher tolerance for cost when it comes
to money making machines. And as everyone knows, money equals time. So it comes down to what features it has, that makes it faster, and easier to use. And that's where things like
that fourth axis come in. I mean, being able to work
on multiple sides of a part without going in and painstakingly, moving things around, and rezeroing, that's money (cash register
chime) right there. Of course, for us, that's
not really the plan. We're just gonna use it to like, make cool stuff for our videos. I guess we should do a demo, right? - [Colin] Ya, let's make some chips. - Okay. Well, first thing: safety! (doors clanging) Should never be run (knocks)
without that closed, and you guys are gonna see why, in just a moment here. So this is cool. It uses like, an air blast
to clean (machine hisses) off the tool before it puts
it back in the tool changer. So which one should I use to
hack up that aluminum block? - [Colin] They're all good for doing that. - Okay. So what do I- - [Colin] So now if you use
the arrow keys on the keyboard, you're gonna jog. Up and down is page up page down. - That's really user friendly. (mumbling) Now you might think, wow, gee, you're gonna run out of coolant
pretty fast there, Rick, but it all collects in this
little filtered reservoir on the bottom, and then
it recirculates it. Now, normally we wouldn't have it in like flood mode like
this for making videos, but that's where the mister comes in. I'm not gonna plunge it
straight into the thing. - [Colin] I don't trust you, man. - Come on, Colin, give me a little credit! - [Colin] I mean, technically
it's your machine. - [Linus] Oh, there it goes boys! See you later, metal! Look at them metal shards at the back Ladies and gentlemen! - [Colin] You wanna clean it up? We got tools for that Linus. - Ah! Sprayed me. How many thou is this thing accurate to? - [Colin] I mean, I haven't dialed it yet. I think the spec is 2/10 of a 'thou' to 4/10 of a 'thou'? - It's like, there's
no burns, there's just, it's not even wet. It's like (machine noise with mouth) - [Colin] Because it's non-porous,
you made a clean surface so you can blow literally
all the coolant off of it. - We switch the plugs in the back, We are now in misting coolant mode. Here comes a misty boy- - [Colin] Do you wanna position it? - Just the tip! - [Colin] And only for a second. - And only what? - [Colin] Nevermind! - Oh, wow. That's pretty wimpy, isn't it? - It's called minimum
quantity lubrication. So it's just enough coolant
to keep things moving. If you need something to be, say clean, you can run clean fluids, rather than a recirculating coolant, or you can have a different
one in your mister, versus what you have
in your flood coolant. It can get fancy. - Oh, my god! Like, somehow it's both
perfect and not sharp, nothing quite like a brand new machine running brand new bits, eh? - [Colin] Why that finish is so good, is because when you plow
a tool through a part, it's gonna naturally deflect, and the router, it's just so big, it can't be rigid. This little tool, it's a lot denser, and a lot heavier. So it deflects less, and
you get a better finish. - Ya it's absolutely incredible. Almost incredible as my
segues to our sponsor: drop.com have launched
a new unique key cap in collaboration with Hammer, that will be the envy of all your friends. That's right. They're bringing 2017 back, with the fidget spinner artisan key cap. It has a spinel top shaped
just like the spinners that you see on the streets. If you went back in time, and it comes in seven vibrant colors, from transparent watermelon
to spotted cheetah, and everything in between. I personally don't know
what's in between a watermelon and a cheetah, but I'm sure it's amazing. It's the perfect time killer
in between loading screens and game rounds, for when
you're not doing pushups. So don't wait, spin into action with your fidget spinner key cap at the link in the video description. If you guys enjoyed this
video, maybe go back in time and have a look at our
commissioning video for the router. That was quite the adventure
for Alex way back in the day. (beep) Oh, wait. These are both mini
PCIE, what the f--- (beep) Okay (laughs)