We're going to start with a very natural real 
world problem and then I'm going to explain to   you a very different problem in pure mathematics 
that surprisingly solves this real world problem.   You want to buy something on 
the internet. So here's you   and here is this online store; and between 
you is this channel we all know and love   called the internet. But the internet is a 
little bit of a noisy channel, so say if you   want to buy something from this store you might 
want to send the store 16 numbers - your credit   card. So like 8352 - whatever - 9115.
- (Brady: That's not your credit card?)  - That's not my credit card. But you want to send 
16 numbers over the internet to this store. Or   maybe somebody else is sending 16 numbers and 
say that your credit card number is 8351...9115 You really don't want the store to receive your 
credit card number by mistake instead of somebody   else's credit card and charge you. So you want to 
some way build in redundancy in the way that you   send these numbers so that if there's an error 
you can first: figure out that there's an error,   don't charge the wrong person; and second of 
all maybe correct that error, you might hope. (I've heard of this, this is error correction.)
- This is error correction - I'm going to   explain to you one of the uh first beautiful 
examples of an error correcting code. Before   we do beautiful examples let's just say, 
what is the most naive thing you could do? How could you use redundancy to be able 
to detect when errors occur - any ideas? (I would imagine-   I would imagine sending it twice)
- Oh yeah, send the numbers multiple   times. So if I had this sequence and I sent 
them multiple times I would send 88335522... 1155. Okay, send each number twice so now if one 
error occurs here I say aha I was expecting each   pair to be equal and here's a pair that's 
not equal, so error. And now I know. But   that doesn't let me correct the error because 
I don't know which was right, 2 or 1. So of   course if I wanted to correct it: send each one 
three times. So if I send each one three times   um I'll be able to correct the errors. Let me 
just write that down: 888-333 - I'm actually   writing this down for a reason - uh it's it's 
it's a lot more numbers right. So if this one   becomes a 1 now I know it should be a 2 because 2 
was the was the most common answer in that triple.   But you'll see that this is two times the amount 
of numbers, or three times the amount of numbers.   And nobody wants to sit on their browser uh 
and wait a long time to make a credit card   transaction because you had to send way more 
numbers; it's unwieldy. So we want a much more   efficient way to build in redundancy to solve 
this problem. Okay I think I want a new sheet. Well before I tell you a nice way to solve this 
problem, uh now we're going to switch to a totally   different problem in pure mathematics. Imagine 
that you have a collection of random points. So   you could think about these points in the (x,y) 
plane; so each of these has an x coordinate   and a y coordinate. When I have this random 
collection of points what I want to do with   it is I want to thread a curve- thread a curve 
through this collection of points. And as you   can see what I did I really wanted my curve to 
exactly pass through each one of these points;   it's not something statistical, I actually wanted 
to pass through each one of those points. And when   I have one of these curves that threads through 
the points I'll say that this curve interpolates   those points. So the main question that you want 
to understand for interpolation is how complicated   does this interpolating curve have to be? So you 
might imagine right if I have more and more random   points, if I want a curve that has to exactly pass 
through all those points, each time it has to hit   a new point it maybe has to twist a little bit or 
turn or move. So it has to get more complicated   as the number of points grows.
- (I intuitively know) (what you mean by complicated but is 
there a proper definition of complicated?)  - We're getting there, we're getting there. So um 
so exactly for that reason that I want to quantify   this I'm going to switch this problem around and 
I'm going to turn it on a head and I'm going to   say that I fix some type of curve - and I know 
this is still very abstract but we're about to   do examples. So fix some type of curve and once 
I fix this I've fixed how complicated this curve   is already. And then what I ask is, what is the 
maximum number of random points it interpolates?   So I've just flipped the problem on its head. 
Fix the curve and then say, given how complicated   that curve is, does it have the flexibility 
to pass through how many types of points?   Should we do some examples? Let's do the 
first example; let's suppose I gave you   two points. So what's the least complicated 
type of curve that you can think of that   interpolates two points? (A straight line)
- A straight line definitely. So yes, a line   always interpolates two points but if I were 
to give you three points - and remember I want   my points to be random - they probably won't lie 
on a line. So 2 is the maximum number of points   that a line interpolates. Okay? So now-
- (I thought a line) (would- I thought a line actually covers 
an infinite number of points but-)  - Oh very very good, very good point, it does 
cover infinitely many points. You can imagine I   can put some other points onto this line but these 
are now not random. And remember then in our main   problem we very judiciously required them to be 
random points. One way you can think about it is   take the points that are on the line and just 
imagine bumping them all in random directions.   If I were to bump these in random directions 
like there would no longer be a line, right,   it would have to be some sort of twisty curve that 
would interpolate all those bumped points. Okay so   that was two points, let's try to do more points. 
Next example: let's do three points okay. Any idea   for uh for the simplest type of curve you can 
think of that interpolates three points? You can   do it with a circle. So these are very classical 
results; of course Euclid knew a line interpolates   two points, he also knew a circle interpolates 
three points. And Euclid didn't have equations   for these curves or anything he only had things 
you could synthetically construct. So you can   actually construct the circle interpolating three 
points - it's not going to look good if I freehand   it. - (Go on let's see ya- let's see your skills)
- Nope, that looked very elliptical.  - (That is that's a terrible circle)
- I could have done a much better job with this,   anyhow. So this was- these are these are two 
very classical results that were known to Euclid,   same thing. Three random points, if you have four 
random points they won't lie on a circle. Okay so   now I want to describe to you another type 
of curve but it's built out of polynomials.   So it's built out of a polynomial f of x - let's 
suppose that we first have a linear polynomial,   so a degree 1 polynomial. So let's say this 
polynomial is like x plus 2. So when you see   a polynomial like this uh and maybe you think 
back to school the first thing you want to do   is you want to start graphing the values of this 
polynomial in the (x,y) plane - remember my points   are in the (x, y) plane. Let's see- when I 
plug in 0 I get 2, when I plug in 1 I get 3,   when I plug in 2 I get 4 - you see where this is 
going - if I plug in any more values I I always   just get the straight line right here and this 
curve that I am making for you you is the graph of   this polynomial f of x. I think I'd like another 
sheet of paper - I'm sorry I can't write small Now we're going to do a degree 2 example, so let's 
just choose some random polynomial of degree 2   like um x squared minus 4x plus 7. So again I'm 
going to graph the the values of this polynomial   in the (x,y) plane. All right so if I plug in 
0 I'll get 7, so that's one point on the graph,   if I plug in 1 I'll get 1 minus 4 is minus 3 
plus 7 is 4. If I plug in 2 I'll get 4 minus   8 plus 7 - I'll get 3 right. And let's do 
another one, let's do 4. If I plug in 4 I'll   get 16 minus 16 plus 7 so I just get 7 again. 
So you can see this graph it looks something   like this parabola through those points. So in 
both of these two problems uh what I was doing   was I was starting with a polynomial and then 
I was getting points on a certain type of curve   which is the graph of a polynomial. So I'm now 
going to flip the problem around, this way that   I've set up the interpolation problem, we fix the 
type of curve which is the graph of a polynomial   of a certain degree and then we want to know 
how many general points does it interpolate.   Okay so this linear case, it's a line, we already 
knew how to solve a line - it interpolates two   general points. That means I can specify two 
points on here; if I pick any two points I can   always find a linear polynomial so that the graph 
of that polynomial interpolates those two points.   And now this has a very explicit description 
right; because these points are of the form   some (x value, f of x) what you're trying to do is 
you're trying to choose some inputs and then find   a polynomial that maps those to specific outputs.
- (Is it almost like saying what's the minimum   number of points I can have and know 
the- ) (know what my thing looks like?)  - It's very related to that. And I- but 
I'm asking for a sort of the maximum,   the amount of freedom you have, the maximum 
number of points you can have and still have   it lie on such a polynomial. So here you could 
do 2 - for degree 2 any guesses for what it is?  It's 3. Um it's sort of like how you went from 
a line to a circle except a circle is not a   graph of a polynomial, right, because it fails 
the vertical line test. But it's still 3 here. So you can always do 3; and in fact there's 
a general result here, this is called the   Lagrange Interpolation Theorem. So if you're 
given n distinct inputs x1 through xn then I   get to choose any outputs, let's say I want to 
send x1 to y1 all the way up through xn to yn,   any outputs. Then there is a unique 
polynomial f of x of degree n minus 1   such that it accomplishes this. It sends 
x1 to y1 and all the way up through xn   to yn. This is the thing that's going to 
solve our problem from the very beginning.   Here's our problem from the very beginning - so 
remember we're starting with 16 numbers and I   think I'd like to not use specific numbers 
for these, I'd like to give them names, think think of them as variables so I'm going 
to call them a1, a2 all the way up through a15,   a16. So here's the key Insight that allows 
us to make this error correcting code,   and these codes are called Reed-Solomon codes. 
So this was Reed and Solomon's insight is to   encode these 16 numbers a1, a2 up through 
a15, a16 as the coefficients of a degree 15   polynomial. So I use these numbers to make a 
polynomial, f of x equals a1x to the 15 plus   a2x to the 14 plus plus a15x plus a16. Okay? So 
same data, nothing has changed I still- it's just   the data of these 16 numbers.
- (What does that curve) (look like?)
- Exactly, that's what we have to do. So let's   let's graph this curve. So if we were to graph 
this curve- okay this is- I've- this is totally uh   I'm just gonna - this will just be a schematic. 
But you imagine there's some graph of this   f of x. And what the Lagrange interpolation 
theorem tells us is that if I know just the   value of this polynomial at 16 different 
inputs, so like x1 I know it's value,   at some other point x2 I know its value, all the 
way 16 points on here - that uniquely determines   the polynomial for me. It's the same data 
as knowing its value at 16 different points. So if you're over here trying to send this 
information online; if you want to send this   it's exactly equivalent to sending the values at 
16 different points: f of x1 through f of x 16.   So let me come back to this Lagrange interpolation 
theorem and let me fill it in a little more. This   n here was really the maximum. So if the points 
x1, y1 through xn, yn are random then this n is   actually the max. You can't specify any more values 
and still have it lie on the graph of a degree n -1  polynomial. Okay so let's use that fact 
to start detecting and correcting errors. Remember   the the thing we have to do is we have to build 
in redundancy. And so we don't have redundancy   at the moment where- if we just keep track of 
the values at um at 16 points. So let's let's   take this and let's add a little more redundancy; 
let's send also the value at just one more point, a   17th point. So we're going to add in one extra 
point. Still no problem - it'll be the same degree   15 polynomial whose graph interpolates these 
17 points. And notice that these 17 points are   not random; random 17 points would lie on no 
graph of a degree 15 polynomial. Okay. But now   the benefit is suppose that there's an error in 
transmitting this point. Instead of transmitting   that value I transmit some other value. Now once 
that happens this graph goes away; I mean you it   no longer interpolates all of these points because 
it doesn't lie on that graph. And now if you think   about it what I have with this collection - not this 
one but the erroneous one - these are now 17 points.  And the internet doesn't doesn't have it out to 
get you. Okay? It's not it's not sending a specific   really bad choice of a point, it's some random 
random error happens in this noisy channel. So   these are a random collection of 17 points which 
means that probably there is no- I mean with all   likelihood there is no degree 15 polynomial that 
interpolates these 17 points, because 15 is more   than what you get by Lagrange. And so what we have 
is we have a way to figure out if there was an   error. Very easy way to figure out that there was 
an error, but we don't have a way to correct the   error because we have to know that this point was 
the wrong point. If we knew that this was the wrong   point we could leave it out and find the curve 
with the other ones; but we don't know that   so well what do we do? Just send one more piece of 
data, send its value at an 18th point. So let me add   one more x here. So we're sending one more value; if 
we send one more value then we will know that this   is the imposter point because the remaining points 
will still be 17 points that lie on the graph of   a degree 15 polynomial which is unexpected. 
Lagrange says we should only be able to do   that with with 16 points; and so we can correct our 
error. So if you look at this over here, this really   bad way of doing it, you have to send two times 
as many points. But using uh Reed-Solomon codes there's this idea you only have to send one extra 
number or you have to send two extra numbers which   is way better than two times the amount of numbers 
or three times the amount of numbers. 
- (So when I) (send my credit card details, my 16 numbers, it's- 
I'm sending 16 numbers plus two other numbers.)   (Are those two other numbers-)
- To first order. That's 
the that's the toy model of what happens, yes  (All right yeah. But like they're not- all these graphs 
aren't being plotted by a computer and and mapped)   (and things like that, that's not actually happening?)
- Oh no um it's a it's a very straightforward way   to combine the data of the coefficients and get 
the values or to combine the data of the values   and get the coefficients. It's very easy, you don't have 
to graph it, the graphing is just what's happening   behind the scenes in the mathematics. And and 
let me say it might not seem that impressive   right to 16 numbers - 2 times 16 is uh 32 or 48 and 
those aren't that much bigger than 17 or 18. But   this 1 or 2 was independent of the number 
of numbers. So like a million, well 2 million   is much bigger, but a million and 1 is not so much bigger. 
- So here's a theorem that I proved   with my collaborator Eric Larson from last year. 
A curve of degree d and genus g in R dimensions...