- I'm already kind of
regretting the poop storm that is going to envelop the
comments under this video. We don't normally get political, but I cannot say the
same about the recipient of the gaming PC we are about to build. (breaking glass sound) (screams) HasanAbi is a self-described,
full blooded socialist and that is not even close to
the most controversial thing about this particular figure. With a resume that features
dating adult film stars, and beating Dark Souls
3 in the same paragraph. He's one of the more [Radio Feedback] colorful characters in
the online gaming world. Our goal is to build
a PC that truly aligns with HasanAbi's values. [Laughter] I think we nailed it. It's called Big Red and ironically, it wouldn't have been possible without our sponsor for
today's video, IFIXIT. If you need to make repairs on the go, IFIXIT has as you covered. Find out more about their ultra portable Minnow and Moray sets and how they can make your repairs easier, at the end of this video. IFIXIT is, I'm sure, not
taking a side in any of this, by the way, and neither are we, we're just building a computer. [Upbeat accordion intro Music] As we begin unboxing our, by
the way, I love the theme, all red components for the build today. Let's talk about who the
hell HasanAbi Piker is. He's a journalist termed Twitch streamer who started his career working
for the digital news network, The Young Turks. He's also the co-host of
H3H3's new political podcast, Leftovers, alongside the
hairline king, Ethan Klein. Hasan streams north of 8
hours, almost every single day and garners north of 35,000
concurrent viewers daily. Making him one of the top
streamers on the platform, which means that he needs a PC with the same work ethic that he has. Oh my God!, this motherboard
weighs, like, 10 pounds. Are we gonna acknowledge the irony of a self-described socialist
having the kind of swag that you can only achieve
through capitalist means? [Voice Off screen] He
also says, you know, "Hey, just tax the hell out of me". - Was ASUS like, "we know who this is and we want to provide cool stuff"? [Voice Off screen] I was like, Hey, can you give me a Strix X570
board? and they're like, we only have this board, I was like, okay. - This thing has everything, Wifi 6E. It's got Thunderbolt! 10 gig
and tuner half gig networking? [Voice Off screen] Five and two port. - The board's probably
worth more than the chip. This is truly the Cadillac of boards for a dead end platform. Enough Jibber Jabber though, let's start getting this thing built. When I asked Hasan what he wanted, he basically said a balling ass PC. So we didn't hold back. That's a Ryzen 9 5950X, 16 core processor. That's right, if he was dumb enough to use his CPU for encoding,
rather than his GPU, he would have all the
cores that he needs for it. And for our RAM, we naturally went with some Crucial
Ballistix, red. [Laughter] Its 3,600 mega transfers per
second, C16 and a 32 gig kit. So plenty of room for
upgrading in the future. Did we pay for this hardware? [Voice off screen] Yup. - Wow. Whew. Okay, go
ahead and cut for a second. - (voice off screen) Tax
the rich!. [TV Signal Beep] - Was that the joke, Colin? [Colin] No, but it is now. - Cause you know, he could
afford it just fine himself, right? I'm sweating right now,
this is higher end hardware than I would put in my own
PC if I was paying for it, Let alone some guy I've never met. Thank goodness, we went with the 970 EVO. Can't believe I just bought
a millionaire a 16 core CPU. It's side panel graphic. [Laughter] Let's get the cooler on first, actually. Nothing more democratic than air cooling. Although this cooler says,
I wanna cool your CPU. This cooler says,
eliminate all student debt. The cool our CPU. [Laughter] HasanAbi's got enough cores, he can afford to share a few of them. I did all of this in
completely the wrong order. Keep trying to put the
whole thing together, Then put it on the CPU socket and that keeps not being how it works. - I am once again asking. - For you to take apart
your CPU cooler before you try and mount it to the board. What would you call a movie about the movement to occupy a
dead socialists house? [Colin] I don't Know. - Weekend at Bernie's. - [All] aaaaaahhh - It's terrible, I know. [Colin] What happens
when you don't use fans in a socialist computer? It gets Bernie. - Oh my God. - [Bernie Sanders] I am so proud. - Let's keep moving here,
let's get through this. Wow!. This thing looks freaking sick. Little mark on here says Medicare for all? Wow, it really is red.
There's no mark on that. but there's Marx. [Laughter]
Gotta built in IO shield. I don't really see anything in the way. Let's go for it here.
(Breaking sound) (Yells) Does this board even have
a center ATX mounting hole? - (Voice off screen) I am once again, asking you to take off the CPU. - No, I will not. You know what? I think we're going to make it. It's going to be a little forced though. Look, you want the highest
quality, you need capitalism. If we're all getting paid the same, why would we care if we do a good job? I'm sorry, Colin, what exactly was left-wing about our power supply here? [Colin] It's Thor, - (Voice off screen) Thor
has both a hammer and an Axe. [Colin] yeah, yeah. - (Voice off screen) Like a sickle. - Yeah, because of the side mounted 24 pin here, I gotta push this. Oh, okay. I got to push it out a little bit. And then I'm going to have
to kind of wrench it down by screwing that piece
in, this is really bad. Oh my God, this is really tight. [Colin] It's what you get on a Monday at the lot of factory, not on a Friday. - I love the way that NZXT
just pre-cables everything up. I mean, why would you need
to do something your own way? One way should be good
enough for everyone. [Colin] Be more like Stalin, be stoic. - (voice off screen) Be like Stalin and kill all of your advisors. - and Photoshop them out of your pictures with your
powerful computer. Oh man. [Colin] You know, we've never got to joke about politics on this channel. - I know, I'm making up
for so much lost time here. I swear, it's more fun for me than it is for you guys cause
I got no skin in the game. To be clear, I'm rooting for America. They're our big, burly
neighbor to the south. We don't exactly get along
too great without them. I just mean like, you know, the daily outrage is not so much a part of my life. [Blast of classical Music] I'm sorry. Are you here to help? You know what? If he
wanted a good computer, he would support privatized
computer building and he would just make more money and
get a better computer. Put that there, side panels closed. (hand banging closed side panel) Oh, we left something
out, our graphics card. The reddest thing yet, our MSI, Gaming X Trio,
AMD Radion, RX 6,900, XT. All joking aside, this
build is kind of sick, good thing it has free
health care. [Laughter] I love that this is like
a square foot of VHB tape. This thing is never coming off the front. It's kind of how it works. Right? What you get is what you
get. If it's a little bit crooked, well,
should've gone capitalism. [Colin] a little bit
right, Nope, too right, no. - Oh, we need it a little bit left. [Colin] Yeah, there you go, a little left. Let's have it close enough that it looks like we were trying to center it. If you were wondering if it's
on there, the answer is yes. I feel like I shouldn't have to say this, but I saw some concerned
comments on Twitter. Linus media group and Linus
Sebastian, the person, in no way condone the
actions of the Soviet Union. And also, I don't actually
recommend eating rich people. What's our final hardware mod? [Colin] Well, you've got
to make it lean left. I mean have you seen the guys streams? You need to go pretty far. - Okay. We're going far,
we're going far left here. [Laughter] It's the
left leaning PC, get it? All right, let's get it fired up. We've got some software
mods. I really don't know why I agreed to build this. Truthfully, I didn't actually
look into them very closely. [Colin] Didn't even read the Wiki? - No, what's on the Wiki? - Not savory stuff. - Oh, yeah. I mean, at least it's not very good. We're really not going
to send him the feet? (Colin) No! - All right, I support this. Anyone out there need these feet? (triumphant cymbals clash) [Russian National Anthem ] Eat the rich, all lower case? (Colin) all lower case - Am I rich enough to eat me? Does this happen every
time you boot it up? [Colin] Technically, yes.
But it runs for 90 seconds. - 90 seconds? [Colin] Well you've got
to get the whole song in. - And I guess it couldn't
have had any more resolution. This was deemed to be
sufficient resolution? (Colin) Yes - I mean, if you wanted more resolution, you'd need capitalism to breed innovation. [Colin] Absolutely. Oh my God, are we really going to sit through this whole thing
and I've borked it. Oh my God, this is
already horrible to use. [Colin] Okay. So to do this correctly, - Let's not tell him how to do it. [Colin] No, no, no, no, no. We're going to cut this from the video. - Oh my God. This wallpaper
though. (laughing) Apparently, there's a nice little treat for me bound to the keyboard, so let's fire up a browser. What's the thing that I should- [Colin] Linusmediagroup.com? - Oh, very funny. Every time
you type A, it types, AOC. [Colin] I almost forgot,
when this PC boots, it automatically donates a
moderate amount of its power. - Okay, so as long as HasanAbi has no idea how to disable that, he will be donating some of the CPU
cycles that otherwise he would have been able
to keep for himself. That's the right thing to do, right? Wow. Colin, that's not really
moderate CPU use is it. This thing is trucking 95% CPU usage. There's a joke in the script
about feeling the burn, because Bernie, I love this. His CPU is going to be
pinned at 100% all the time. Unless he watches the video
and knows what we did. But it's the right thing to do, anyway. Just like the right thing to do is to tell you about our sponsor IFIXIT. 2 of there most popular tool kits are now available in Canada and Australia. The Moray and Minnow kits are IFIXIT's tool kits for the maker on the go. The Minnow driver kit is IFIXIT's pocket size tool kit that's only 14.99. And, as advertised, fits in your pocket. Featuring an easy to
open magnetized case for the built-in sorting
tray, 16 different bits, and the handle has a
built-in SIM eject tool, how handy is that? - For something slightly
bigger, The Moray driver kit is only 19.99 and includes
32 different bits with extended reach necks. All IFIXIT kits have a
lifetime warranty and you can check out the links in the
description to buy yours today. Thanks for watching. If you
guys enjoyed this video, maybe go check out Alex's
Intel upgrade, where we also did an etched side
panel and it came out sick.