(drums playing) - Who are we? - [Crowd] Old people and children. - What do we want? - Cheap tablets! - Yeah. - No, you don't buying your grandparents. A bad tablet is borderline elder abuse. So when Anthony told us his
dad needed a new tablet, I did what any tech
nerd would do and said, "Just get him an iPad." - That's too expensive. It has to be less than $250. - That's a little tougher. The budget tablet market
is an absolute minefield of low spec and ad infested. Junk. Not wanting Anthony's dad to suffer. I did the next thing
that I know how to do. I paid someone else to go, and find the best tablet for $250 or less. Just like how MSI paid
me for this sponsor spot. MSI optic MPG, 3 21 QRF - QD Is a 32 inch 1440 P
quantum monitor with up to a 175 Hertz refresh rate. Learn more at the link down below. (upbeat techno music) We ended up with five
budget tablets, some new, some refurbished, some surprisingly good and some surprisingly bad,
regardless of our conclusions. We're gonna have all of
them linked down below, if you think one of them
might be right for you. Let's start with the
$98 on 10.1 inch tablet, or as I call it the e-waste special. Walmart, you truly spared
every expense here. For starters, this is the only tablet in our roundup that actually
has a plastic screen. The two megapixel shooter takes photos like a 2006 flip phone
and the selfie camera. - EEHHH! You look so pale. Have you been eating? - Honestly? I think it'll
make your grandmother cry when she sees your on a video call. - My boy. - It makes weird noises
when you hold it, like it. (cracking noises) Kinda creek sometimes,
but as Lenox has shown us. Garbage hardware can be
redeemed by good software. And this is the only tablet
of the bunch that runs the very lightweight Android Go OS. Unfortunately, it still
chugs even just swiping through the homepages. You also can't split screen 2 apps. And while it does come with
an interesting feature called Google Entertainment Space that
provides recommendations for things to watch, read, listen
to, or play on your tablet. They, well, maybe it's
better to just show you. This movie, for instance,
is clearly missed labeled. If you've listened to the There
Just Movies podcast episode on Licorice Pizza, I think
you'll know that this ain't it. And we could play games
like Twerk Race 3d. (laughing in background) Oh my goodness. There's broccoli and burgers and. What the? So I avoid broccoli. - Got to size up your badonkadonk. - I don't understand. I got a new skin. That would be horrible, even
if it was running smoothly. Thankfully, it runs the
one thing that matters. LTT store.com. New couch ripper pillows,
swacket restock, hot flannel. Oh, and we've got a new
feature where you can mouse over to see the size the model's wearing. Super cool. Of course, many people buy tablets purely for watching videos on the go. So, how's the media experience? (tropical music) All I'll say is your 2 year
old probably won't care, but I think Anthony's dad deserves better. Thankfully, a $50 jump in price brings us to the significantly better. Amazon Fire HD 10. Amazon's
tablets have long dominated the budget segment, and for good reason. This one is reasonably rugged. Despite its plastic chassis,
the full HD display manages to avoid actively harming the content. The speakers sound good
up to about 50% volume. (tropical music) And the SOC can handle some
light multitasking, especially if you stick to the
lightweight integrated apps. The big gotcha. The penis rocket billionaire's ecosystem. Amazon uses Fire OS a fork of Android and they absolutely hate Google. So that means you're stuck with
the Amazon app store rather than the play store. And it's got about 1,
7th the number of apps. Not only that. But Google apps? Nah uh. Not even YouTube or Gmail,
only WebApp versions are available, and it's even
missing popular games like Genshin Impact and Pokemon Go. The thing is to help
these tablets punch above their price class. Amazon subsidizes the hardware
by cutting out Google's 30% cut on app revenue and
replacing it with their own. And they also push the
user hard to subscribe to their services. You can install the Google play store and enable Google services by
downloading the relevant APKs. And for the sake of
testing, we did do that, but it is a major inconvenience,
especially if you're not that tech savvy and especialer,
or if you're moving from an older Android tablet, like Anthony's dad. Stepping up to the $200 price range then, and not being impressed
by the big manufacturers. We found this promising little bundle called the Kingpad K10 Pro. (electric guitar) - Sup Vast King? - The pro moniker might
be a little optimistic, but I guess Vast King's point
is then they mean business, with the keyboard, folio, and
active stylist all included. You will be business chic on the cheap, with this entire package
costing just $40 more than Apple's standalone Smart Keyboard. And shockingly, this
keyboard is actually better than the Apple one. The included stylist
though is pretty mediocre. It has pressure sensitivity
but no angle detection. Though, it does come with
an easily replaceable quadruple A battery, and
it glides nicely across the screen without bumps or grinding. Speaking of which Twerk Race 3d runs like a dream on this bad boy. The Unisoc T 6 18 chip set
proves to be adequately capable. To actually the
same chip Samsung is using in their brand new A8 series tablets. And the full HD display is
sharp, but only manages dim washed out colors compared
to our other competitors. (tropical music) And the speakers are
disappointingly tinny. Also, to save money the
devs have skipped out on wide vine DRM certification. Meaning that you won't be able
to stream an HD from services like Netflix, and battery
life is pretty underwhelming. So media consumption ain't great, and the King's pads productivity
aspirations get hamstrung somewhat by its bare bones
Android 10 operating system. At least it can open two
apps simultaneously though, but compared to the
multitasking capabilities of tablets from the likes
of Samsung and Apple it falls well short. Now beyond the $200 mark,
we are getting dangerously near the edge of what we
can safely call budget, but. (harp music) - Oh, what's this? My God it's iPad the Gray the Clean X of tablets and at just $230. Apple makes up 58% of the
worldwide tablet market. And that's for good reason. This right here is a
refurbished 6 generation unit from 2018 sporting Apple's A 10 SOC. And what is there for me to say? Even as a PC Android kind of guy. I recognize that the iPad is just plain better than the competition. But, hold on a second. Is this 4 year old 32 gigabyte
model the right deal at $230? Only you can answer that. Our other honorable mention
is the base model 9th Gen iPad for just a $100 more. It's gonna have software
support for much longer. It's got better. Well. Everything. And if it holds its value nearly as well as the 6th Gen model did. You should be able to
flip it for a decent price when you feel like upgrading. Also, without expandable
storage this 32 gigs is gonna fill up pretty fast. Every other tablet we looked
at has expandable storage, but Apple's too good for that. Finally, at the top of our budget we have the Galaxy Tab S Six
Light, which while it is listed at $279.99 on Samsung's
website has been going for $250 pretty frequently these days at retailers like Amazon. And you can probably expect
prices to drop a bit more as Samsung rolls out its new 8
Series tablet, lineup bundled with Samsung's excellent
Spen you get the best screen out of the bunch, the best
speakers, second best software, and the best build quality out of the lot. And with a 13 hour battery a number it very nearly
achieved in our battery test. This tablet is a great deal at $250 bucks. Yes, the device is coming on
2 years old at this point, and design doesn't have the
best track record for software support, but this is such
a good piece of hardware. It's at least worth
giving a second look to. Some things to note though,
is that even though this is a pricier tablet, Samsung
has long struggled with GPU performance on their EXOS
chips, and that shows here. The gaming performance on
this thing doesn't keep up with even the 4 year old
iPad and in Geekbench it was only slightly
better than the King pad. So there you go. Anthony's dad, that's our rundown. Which one will you buy? Realistically, there's
no way you were gonna take the ONN thing, right? - Not at all. - Yeah. I didn't think so. Okay, so which one do you
think is the best fit for you? - For me, I would have to
settle for the Samsung 6 Light. - Well, I've got a
little surprised for you. We are actually going to
just send this one to you. You don't have to worry about
the budget for it at all. It's yours. - Seriously? Oh sweet. - You gave us Anthony. So I feel like it's the least we can do. - That's very That's very nice of you. Thank you very much. - No, no. Thank our sponsor. Manscaped. Menscaped ultra premium
collection is an all in one skin and hair care kit for the everyday man and
covers you from head to toe. It's all new. There's the two in one
shampoo and conditioner. Their body wash with cologne scent. Their hydrating body spray. Their deodorant. And a free gift moisturizing lip balm your man maintenance just got easier. And best of all, all of Menscaps products in the ultra premium collection
are cruelty free Paran free and vegan. Visit manscape.com/tech,
or click the link down below for 20% off and free shipping. So what do you guys think? Did we miss anything? Let us know in the comments,
if you like this video you'll probably like our video on the cheapest tablet on the market. It literally fell apart in my hands. Go check it out. - Ahhhh Too expensive.