Okay, I want to show you how to fill a Klein bottle. Can a Klein bottle be filled? Does the Klein bottle have volume? You ask a mathematician, and they'll say:
Well... ...a Klein bottle doesn't really have any volume. Uh, it's a topological shape. This doesn't have volume! But wait a second. It looks like it has volume Well, if you ask a topologist, does a measuring cup have volume? They'll probably tell you,
 no Does a sphere have volume? Yep, no matter how...
(STRUGGLES WITH WORDS): you know, you know... 4* PI* R^3. Whatever. It has a volume It divides the universe into an outside... [EXCITEDLY TAPS THE PLASTIC BALL] 
...and an inside. And no matter how do you stretch and contort it.
If you shrink it if you make it bigger, It'll always have a volume Oh. A piece of paper. I can make it into sort of a cup somehow or another But it'll always [TAPS PAPER] occupy very little volume. Well...
(STRUGGLES WITH WORDS): you know... in the limit none! Likewise a bag right? I can put stuff into I can put stuff into it I can even put stuff that has volume into it but (Brady: It doesn't divide the universe) it doesn't divide the universe into two parts if I were in outer space all of these grapes would flow out A bag doesn't divide our universe into two parts This is related closely to a two-dimensional problem called the Jordan curve problem which asks a cool question of is there a difference between That curve and this other curve? This encloses an area this doesn't enclose an area. Turns up to be a surprisingly difficult thing to prove and the mathematician Camille Jordan who finally solved it was a real smart character. In the same way to a topologist the question is does something divide the universe into the outside and the inside? A Klein bottle even a three-dimensional Klein bottle an immersion like this. Well the air on the inside of it can easily escape to the outside sort of and this cup, this measuring cup which says Oh 500 milliliters over here, a physical volume to a topologist they just melt it down, flatten it out and say oh this is homeomorphic to a disc It has no volume. A disc has no volume So be careful when you talk to mathematicians in the kitchen Don't don't don't don't let them near your recipe book having said that you know a sphere has a volume a doughnut, a torus has a volume but a Klein bottle doesn't have a mathematical volume. Got that. What about a physical volume? Well this obviously, you can put, you know In America, it's possible to put 16 ounces of water in it, everywhere else in the world you could put 500 milliliters into it. Got that so if a Klein bottle doesn't have a mathematical volume. Does it have a physical volume? Well the way I make these The answer is well sort of yes. You can fill a Klein bottle with water and throw some dye in it also. You can't pour that out? Well, yeah, I can pour it out Let's pour some water out go through here. Glug glug glug Pour it out. Out it goes drop by drop Essentially it's vapor locked it won't. So yep I can get water in I can get water out So I lack the measuring cup your Klein bottle in the real world only has volume depending on its orientation in gravity That's right. Another way of thinking of it is this measuring cup depends on gravity to hold to hold water. In the absence of gravity or if the gravitational field is inverted, it doesn't hold water anymore. Well, I got that likewise a Klein bottle but a sphere Hey, this is if you put water in here, it'll stay in there no matter what, so How do you fill a Klein bottle? Well step one For me, I'll put a drop of food coloring in Boop Which is way more than you need and a little bit of water in, a few drops It'll go right through. Notice my fingers have already been dyed So, okay. I got some, got some water in there Problem is every time I pour water it vapor locks And I don't only get sort of this much water in so come on over. I'll dunk it underwater and show you how to fill a Klein bottle with water along with a little bit of blue in it dunk it under water and wiggle it around. Each time a bubble of air comes out and with each bubble of air a little bit of water comes in. Let's get a bubble of air And held under water long enough. So you're doing like a sort of a 360 yeah, to get the bubble out. Yeah And if each bubble is about a milliliter or two eventually with each bubble leaving Conservation of something tells me that a bubble-sized bit of water is going in It's still pretty slow. Oh, come on. It's not slow. This is fast compared to the age of the universe. This is speed compared to even something is rapid as global warming. This is fast stuff here not just fast, but you know compared to the rate it takes to make a Klein bottle it's enormously fast You could use an aquarium pump you could use a water pump and so on but. Here's a Klein bottle that's completely filled with water And if I lift it up at first it'll Notice now when I take my hand off the bottom a little bit dribbles out but not too much Can you put water in a Klein bottle? You betcha in our physical universe problem, of course is You know water can also be taken out the real problem though is this Once you get water in there Yeah, you can get almost all of it out by tilting it and sort of doing the opposite of what you did before Tilt and pour tilt and dribble out. Yeah that works so you get water in Kind of shake it out. The problem is the last few drops of water. Ah There's not much air circulation inside of a physical Klein bottle as a result the last few drops of water that surface tension holds there Do I have an example? Probably not very visible on the video, but there's droplets of water in here. I can see that, yeah. You can! Yeah Well getting the last few drops out Means overcoming surface tension Hard to do so to remove the last few drops I'll let the sit in a dish drain for Oh An hour or three. A little bit of water will collect there. I'll pour it out Then you know, get it nice and dry on the outside the little bit of water still in there, I'll either pour acetone in swish it around pour it out and then let the acetone evaporate. Pour alcohol in that'll work or Intubate it with an aquarium air pump and pump air through it let the water evaporate This and he says Isn't this the same thing? That's why you do the astronomy after all. It's not gonna make you rich it's not gonna make you famous It's not gonna get you girls didn't work for me What it does do is it gets you closer in touch with the universe.