The maths of zombies. Previously people didn't care if you 
studied epidemiology through mathematics;   all they cared about was keep me healthy. And 
so the way you'd sell it to people is okay,   let's talk about zombieism. It's the 
same maths of flu, it's the same maths as   chickenpox, but it spices it up a little. And so 
what we're going to consider are some zombies,   what's a hallmark of the zombie? Well 
they move randomly and the zombie does   a random walk. So we can't say where a 
particular zombie will be at any time;   but a lot of zombies we can actually predict. 
We use a thing called the diffusion equation,   okay, so we have a population z that's how many 
zombies are at a location at a particular time.   The zombie are changing over time, zt means 
rate of change of zombies over time, that's   equal to Dz. Dz tells us how fast the zombies 
are moving, how fast they're spreading out. Big Dz, very fast, they're riding 
motorbikes, small Dz, very slow,   their legs have been cut off. And then we have 
the Laplacian of z - upside down triangle -  very scary piece of mathematics but it just means 
random motion. Okay, and from this what you get is   a relation between time of first interaction and 
that's proportional to how far away you are from   them, space is being x here, and their rate of 
diffusion, Dz. So t and Dz are related. Time of   first meeting is approximately proportional 
to how far away I am from the zombie, x,   and how fast they're dispersing, Dz. So if I slow 
the zombies down, I put pits out, rubble - it's a   good reason for not cleaning your room I always 
say - so if I halve their rate of motion my time   doubles. Half the rate of motion, double my time. 
So if it takes 20 minutes for them to get to   me and I put a lot of things out that will 
stop them it'll take 40 minutes to get to me.   Okay that's that's that's useful, that's 
useful to know. But what's more useful to know   is x, because time and space are related 
quadratically - what does that mean? Well if I   double the distance between me and the zombies, 
because of this x squared time is increased by   four. So I double my distance, let's say 10 metres 
I go to 20 metres away, my time has gone from   10 minutes to 40 minutes. So it's much better to 
run away from a zombie than it is to try and slow   them down. I won't judge you! I will be at the 
head of the people- I know this! I've got a plan   to get out of the way, I'm not trying to stop 
them, I'm running away. So don't worry, I'll be   a chicken, you'll be a chicken we'll all be a chicken.
- (Brady: That does kind of assume you have an)  (infinite ability to run away, whereas if you put 
an obstacle down an obstacle will be there forever.) Very true, very true, and that's a good point - and 
you might also trip over that obstacle, very true. I mean uh the UK isn't that big. You can 
keep running- in fact we wouldn't have very   far to run until we hit the the sea from 
from from where you're living here, Brady. So   I'd just like to say maybe think about moving if a 
zombie apocalypse happens? This is telling us about   the start of an apocalypse, okay, what should we do? 
Run away. But you're quite right, we now have to add   in interactions. So what can zombies and humans 
do when they meet? So we're gonna have zombies   meet humans, zombie plus human. What can come out of their interaction? We can have the zombie kill the   human. So zombie meets a human, zombie survives, 
not great. The human can kill a zombie, great!  We've survived! We've got a good outcome and a bad 
outcome, but that's certainly not the worst outcome.   What's the worst outcome? We get bitten and we 
end up with two zombies. So now what we can do   is rewrite this in terms of our equation. So now we 
have two populations to keep tabs on: we have the   zombies, they're diffusing, moving randomly, they 
don't know what they're doing, they're mindless.   And we're going to say that because of these 
interactions something can happen. We can increase   the zombie population at a rate proportional to 
what's happening, so let's give these three rates: this can happen at a rate a, a rate b, and a rate 
c. All it really means is whichever's biggest is   the one that's most likely to happen. If b was 
really big then the zombies are ineffectual, you   know, they're flies you're just batting them out 
away, keep away, go away I don't want you. If c is   really big then zombieism is very infectious, you 
know, they- saliva can pass it on, very infectious,   we don't want that. So this is the equation we're 
going to write down from this set up here: zombies   are moving randomly and what we have is that the 
humans kill the zombies, so we lose some zombies   at a rate b, that's the amount that are 
killed by the humans; but we gain zombies   at a rate c, okay? That's all that happens, we 
gain zombies through zombification, we lose   zombies because of humans killing zombies. We 
have to also account for the humans. So human   population changing over time, I'm also going 
to consider the humans are moving randomly.   Now generally that's not true, you know 
where you're going to be most of the time.   But I'm going to suggest that if the dead start to 
rise you may not go to work that day, you may not   go to school, you might panic and try and escape. 
So that's what I'm saying here, that humans are   panicking, they're moving randomly, not many people 
have a zombie plan - the fools. And we have the same   idea here, we put on the kinetic. So what can happen? 
We can die at a rate a, and we die at the rate c.   So that's that's the entirety of a zombie 
population written down in two simple equations.  Simple equations - ha! So what do they tell 
us? Well the first thing we can do is is   simplify this bit of it, so let's have a look at 
the human equation. This term is always negative.   Now I shouldn't have to tell anyone who's seen 
a zombie film before - or anyone in fact - but it's   never beneficial for a human to meet a zombie. 
Yes we can kill them, but it doesn't increase   our population. We are assuming that our zombie 
pandemic occurs over a short time, because you   know we could have added in birth rates into this. 
But I'm going to say that most zombie films are   around an hour and a half; it takes nine months to 
give birth so I'm going to say that birth isn't   really going to affect this equation too much. 
Because of this term being negative we are always   losing human population - don't meet a zombie. 
Now let's look at the zombie equation, do this   idea of connect reaction terms. Random motion, 
and then we put (c minus b)Hz. Now this term can   either be positive or negative - what does that 
mean? If this is positive, c is larger than b.  The zombies are infecting more people 
than we're killing, they're very infectious.  If b is bigger than c, we are killing more 
zombies than they are infecting, this is   negative. So this- again tells us what situation we- 
to be able to survive we need to kill more zombies   than they are infectious, okay? Again this makes 
sense, you know, all I'm doing is converting our   knowledge of any good zombie film into mathematics. 
But this does tell us one more thing, because these   equations are- can be seen as a Fisher equation 
which is a type of equation in mathematics.   And that equation has a wave structure in it. 
So what we'll have is our city; we'll have the   zombies being green and we'll put them here, we'll 
put all of our zombies in a graveyard. And we're   going to say that the rest of our city, the humans 
are pretty well spread out along our city. If you run   these equations you will find that this spreads 
out like a wave, invading the blue, either eating   them or turning them. Some of the zombies may die 
but a lot more of the humans will be converted and   eaten. That's also a big problem, you may want to 
think about your strategies now. Essentially all of   the humans around you, if you're in a populated 
place, they're just potential zombies for you. Hmm, think about that for a second. But what is 
the speed of this wave? So we'll call this v, it's   move- this wave is is charging through the human 
population at a rate v. And v is proportional to   the square root of Dz H0 and (c minus b). Okay, 
some of these we've seen before, some of   them we haven't. Dz we've seen before, that's 
just the spread of the zombies. You slow the   zombies down, you slow the speed down, makes sense. c minus b, that was this term here. The rate of zombie   production minus the rate of zombie killing. This 
term can be negative, but it's inside a square root.  That means if we make this negative this can't 
happen. We need to be more deadly than the zombies   are infectious, if that's possible we stop the 
infection spreading. Now h0, we've not spoken about   this parameter yet. h0 is the initial population 
of the humans. If you can isolate yourself, remove   anyone potentially around you, great, you don't 
have to worry. But if you're surrounded by humans,   all they are to you are potential infections. I'm 
not saying you should get rid of those humans,  I'm just saying what the maths says Brady. You may 
choose to interpret it however you so wish.
- (Ah see) (I interpreted that as, I just need to move out 
to the country, but you're saying I need to kill)  (the humans!)
- No I specifically said- I did not say that. I've said you need to isolate  yourself in some way. However true- however- disclaimer, disclaimer, disclaimer! 
- This episode was supported by   Brilliant, makers of fantastic courses, puzzles, 
lessons, that you can do from your computer   tablet or phone. I've always been a bit partial 
to perfect numbers, so I've been enjoying this   one. Everything on Brilliant is lovingly designed 
and super interactive as you can plainly see here.   I've met the people at Brilliant and they're so 
passionate about making the world a smarter place,   improving our brains. Check them out, it's 
brilliant.org/numberphile. You can get started   for free, go and have a look around. Then 
if you decide to go deeper, maybe get the   premium subscription, well that /numberphile, that's going to get you a 20% discount.   That's brilliant.org/numberphile - our 
thanks to them for supporting this episode.   ...and you get extra growth from it, and then 
you see that in the fact that the bigger   that bulge gets the bigger your black hole gets as well.
- One fact I know about eyes, so this is   like where all the blood is flowing into it 
right? If you're God and you're designing an   eye you might put all of those blood vessels 
behind where it's actually receiving light?