- If they say the word
fluff, they get $10,000. - Ah, fluffy. - Mr. Storm Trooper here and today we have a masked army. I'm gonna send Ethan
out to go do something, while he's gone, we're
gonna destroy his car. A while ago I bought a safe and I actually forgot the passcode. We've never given $40,000
to Twitch streamers. - Thanks, for getting me W. - Ahhh! Right here is our army of leaf blowers. We're gonna win game of Fortnite
in the middle of the ocean. Oh, yes! I wanna see if 1,000 rolls
duck tape will stop this car. Today, we're gonna hit an ice sculpture of Logan Paul with a flame thrower. I don't have ice cream. I just have a lot of money. So here you go. Here's that. I'm gonna take all these RC cars tie them to a real car and move that car using only RC cars. Oh! Oh my goodness. Like, do you have change for $200? Oh, well, I just have to keep it. - Are you serious? Oh my God, thank you. - No problem, man. I can't believe they're selling
us right under our noses. Look, how much is this? We're gonna see if 10,000 rubber bands can snap a safe in half. Whoa! We're gonna take apart his old car and put it in his office. Surprise. Surprise. We got you duck tape. We're so close. We're almost, wow. Oh, oh, oh, we're almost,
five million subscribers! Wow, I can't believe it! Five million! Okay, this is disgusting. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right,
now I'm covered in wine. - Congratulations, MrBeast, whoa! - I appreciate it, boys. All right, do you guys mind? I wanna watch the next meme review. It just came out. Hey, would you buy any chance have five million pieces of popcorn? - I don't think we have
five million. No, sir. - What do we do? - Big buckets. - Yeah, can I have a
bucket of popcorn then? - All right, it's gonna be 9.40, man. - Well, then I also want
a bucket of popcorn. - Two buckets.
- Okay, two- - You want a bucket? - The inner machinations of my mind are an enigma. - Three buckets.
- Three buckets. - And give the Viking a little one, 'cause he's-
- I'll take a small. - Yeah, he's kind of tiny. - I'll take a small. - So this is what we got. I don't think this is working guys. I think we need to find a different place than a movie theater to get
five million pieces of popcorn for our five millionth subscriber. I bought five million pieces of popcorn. Load 'em up boys. This is a perfectly drawn map of America. This is where we're located at. This is where our five
millionth subscriber is. As you remember, I gained
2,000 subscribers at one time. Oh, we're almost, five
million subscribers! So I just picked a random person
out of those 2,000 people. And he's based in Illinois. So we have about 11 and a half hours left until we arrive at our five
millionth subscriber's place. We've been driving, it's late at night, but thank goodness we got the Golden State Warrior game to keep us entertained, right Garrett? - Si senor! Wait.
- You're pitch black. So we drove all night. It's now the morning, we drove all night long. We're gonna take a nap
at a hotel real quick. And then after our power nap, we're gonna deliver
the five million pieces of popcorn to my five
millionth subscriber, which literally lives right over there. But we don't wanna film the video while the whole crew is really tired 'cause then it wouldn't
turn out that great. So power nap time. - Wow, they were really tired. - Hello. - Hey, what's up, Brad? It's me, Beast.
- Hey, what's up, man? - Yeah, hey, we're on
our way to your place. Yea, so we'll be there
in about 10 minutes. You ready? - Yeah, we've been ready. - Okay, sorry for making
you wait and stuff. It was-
- No, you're good, man. - Awesome, all right, see you in a bit. - All right, see you man. - All right, friends that
I drag around every video, let's get hyped. We're ready to give this man some popcorn. Chris, you know how when you suck a lot of like your throat kind of just like- - Yeah, it kinda hurts. - I know. That's how I feel every time we do that
screaming thing, like woo! My throat just feels
like I sucked a lot of, it's a little annoying. - But wait, how do you know what sucking- - It's anyways, so popcorn. Well, we got some people in the front. Hey, what's up man? We're gonna shove a camera
in your face all day. - All right.
- So what's your name again? - It's Brad. - Everyone say hi to Brad. You want to introduce us to everyone? - Yeah, come over here. - I'll bring my squad. Hey, let's meet squads. - It's time to dual. - I saw your video where you said, "Jake Paul" 50,000 times. You have to be a really big idiot to say something 100,000 times. Paul Logan, Paul Logan,
Paul Logan, Paul Logan, Paul Logan, Paul Logan. Only intelligent people stop at 50,000. - I would not recommend it for anybody. It was possibly the worst
thing I've ever done. - So he has no idea what's in the U-Haul. So before we do that, how long have you been subscribed? - I mean, I was the five millionth, right? - Oh, oh. - Oh yeah, that's right. Wait a minute.
- Wait a minute. Okay, let's rethink our strategy here. - I'm gonna be honest, first thing I ever watched was you watching paint dry. Best video on YouTube right there. Na, na, na, na, na, na, na, na, na, na. - You know what also is gonna suck, we're gonna rob you after this too. So, that's gonna suck. - Chris, your shoe's untied. - Yeah. I'm gonna have to
tie it again in Illinois. - We already did a video on this. And as you remember, it
didn't work in Illinois. It didn't work in any state. Wait, why is it working now? Are you saying our video was a lie? - They ask you how you are and you just have to say that you're fine. You're not really fine. - Boom, right there. - What's in the truck. What's in the truck? What's in the truck? What's in the truck? - Oh! Popcorn. - Yeah. - Five million pieces of popcorn. - Fresh for you, man. - Do I get to keep this? - Yeah, if you want it. - Yeah, absolutely.
- Here's a bag for all your friends too. - We may or may not looked up
your house on Google image. Do you have a pool? - Out back we might. - Could we empty it and
fill it with popcorn? - We might be able to
do something like that. - He's clickbaiting us now. - Wait, before we empty too much, can we get a thumbnail? - I gotta get that image that you clicked on on this video, 'cause if I don't do this,
you won't click on this video. ♪ Let's go ♪ - Shotgun, shotgun, shotgun, shotgun! - Yeah! - Woo!
- Woo! - Woo!
- Everybody look! Jimmy peed his pants. - Hey, hey, hey, it's a medical condition. - Ah, look at his pee pants. Pee pants! Don't play in the street, you'll die! Are you done being dramatic now? - Hey, it's a medical condition. So this car right here, you said we have permission
to fill it with popcorn. - Fill it up. - Yeah.
- Yeah. - Don't you just love
peer pressuring people into doing stuff for your content. - Heck ya! - We're about to fill
this car with popcorn. Let's get hyped! - Woo!
- Woo! - Brad is sacrificing
his car to the popcorn. Guys, you have to subscribe to him because like we're like, basically, about to up his car, but he's okay with it so, like, that means you guys have
to subscribe to him. That's dedication. - Here's the first bag of many. . - Well, there's no turning back now. - I feel so bad, but he told us too. - He did. This was his idea. This is the content we needed! - This is the content we needed, but not the content we deserve. - Someone make that a meme. I feel horrible just
dumping this in his car. - Do it. - I'm doing it. I'm a Jake Pauler. - How you feeling there, B-Rad. - It's good popcorn.
- Really? - Yeah.
- It's gonna feel even better when all you guys subscribe. - We can't even see him
because of the shade, but he doesn't care. It's not about him. It's about the content. Hey, it's Chris's butt. - Dude, I can't wait to
go for a ride with Brad. He's such a cool guy. - Oh yeah, definitely. - Oh, geez, Brad, do
you not clean your car. What the , man? - Geez, Brad.
- Been a minute. - Brad, what the . Brad, like come on. All right, I don't wanna
be disgusting all day. So I'ma abort it. Abort. Abort. I don't have the will
and dedication like Brad. Brad, I have a hot dog for you. - Here, let's go ahead and- - A hot dog. - Yeah, come on get this hot dog, bro. - Where's it at? - I lied, I'm sorry. - So-
- Yeah. - Good luck with that. That was your choice. - Yeah, I'll help a little. There you go. All right, enter your PayPal email. We're gonna PayPal him some money. Yeah, dude, you let us up your car? We gotta give you like something. And car and everything. All right, viewers, what do
you think we should give him? I was originally, honestly, I was gonna give him $2,000. But since you let us fuck up his car, we have to do like 5,000. Right there, for five million subscribers, he gets $5,000. $5,000, send payment now. Boom, he now has more money than me. There you go.
- Wow. - Can you cry for me? Like, you know, that'd be great content. Yeah, I like it! Look at those tears. Man, we just gave Brad money. I'm so sad. - Emotional.
- I'm so emotional. - Five million viewers. This is a really cool trick we figured out recently. Basically, touch Chris's nipple and a meme will pop up on screen. - Really? - Whoa, it's a meme. Quidd is sponsoring America, free healthcare for all. Thanks Chris's nipple. - You're welcome. - Remember guys, if you ever want a meme all you gotta do is touch Chris's nipple. - Bonus meme. Woop, another one. - I don't like that meme. That meme sucks. All right guys, let's head back up front. Let's leave this loser. - I'm the only one in here right now. - Yeah, does it feel good? - Yeah, it feels great actually. - Brad, there's your towel back. I very much appreciate it. - So my three millionth subscriber got three million pennies. Here's your three million pennies. Oh, my god. - Yep, sorry about that. And then my four millionth subscriber got four million cookies and some money. Can I buy these cookies off you? Do you think $4,000 will be good enough? - No way. What? - And then my five
millionth subscriber, Brad, got five million pieces of popcorn and some money and our
six millionth subscriber will get- You'll find out. You should try to be it. If you wanna be like Brad
and get a lot of popcorn, well, not popcorn, but
something else in bunches, gotta be six million. Right, Brad? Yeah, we haven't give
Brad much time to speak. Say whatever you want. - Today was a normal day, I was hanging out and then a bunch of guys came
and put popcorn in my car. So if you wanna see some more crazy stuff, I don't mean to plug myself,
but over at Brad Heat, it will be down in the description. There's gonna be some
crazy stuff over there. - I think that's content. Do we hug?
- Yeah. Do we all hug?
- Do we? - I guess your kinda wet. - Wonder twins powers activated. All right, so we're done filming. We're gonna throw the popcorn
bags back in the U-Haul. ♪ Let's go ♪ - Okay, I just wanna make sure, just so the world knows
we're not assholes, seriously, like there's like five of us. Anything you want us to
do before we head up? - No, I seriously, all this is good. Probably gonna try and do my
own content with this, so- - Yeah, okay, so we're leaving this here. - No, you're good. - Must not be like Pewdiepie. It's nice meeting you. - It's nice meeting you too, man. - Later, man. - That handshake was like a seven out 10. - Seven out 10. Isn't Pewdiepie like a one outta 10. - He's like negative 80 out of 10. - We did better than Pewdiepie. ♪ Mister Beast ♪ ♪ Oh ♪ ♪ Mister Beast ♪ ♪ Oh ♪ ♪ Mister beast ♪ ♪ Oh ♪