So we're going to be talking about uh some 
new world records uh going 23% beyond the   Riemann Hypothesis. So the Riemann Hypothesis is 
one of the great problems in mathematics with   a million dollar prize if you solve it. But 
before I get ahead of myself, let's just talk   about our favorite numbers - the primes. So the 
sequence begins just with 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19,   23 and so on. So we know by Euclid the sequence of 
primes goes on forever but famously the primes   are really known for being mysterious and having 
a lot of complexity so maybe a simpler thing we could   look at is just the last digit. So consider just 
lopping off the other digits and just considering   the ones at the end. So it starts off the same; for 
the single digit primes 2, 3, 5, 7 and once we get to   11 we just keep the 1 at the end. 13 we just keep 
the 3 at the end, 17 we just keep the 7 at   the end and so on. So Brady I'm not so fast writing 
all these numbers down, especially if they go on   forever, maybe with some help of a computer maybe 
we can speed up this process. Let's just consider   looking at the list of prime numbers up to 100. So 
it starts off as before - 2, 3, 5, 7 - but then it goes up   to 97, so that's the largest prime up to 100. So we 
look at the last digit of these primes, it starts   off again 2, 3, 5, 7 - but then at the end when we're 
throwing off we get 89 becomes a 9, 97 becomes a   7. The advantage of a computer here is that we can 
just change one character and instead of looking   at primes up to 100 we could look up primes 
to 500 and just generates that list uh pretty   readily. And if we do the same thing, just looking 
at the last digit, we get this uh longer table of   data. As a mathematician once you see a table of 
data your ears perk up and you ask uh you know are   there any patterns in this data? Um so Brady maybe 
if we stare at this table maybe some thoughts are going to emerge; which numbers occur frequently? 
Are there any numbers that don't occur? You see   anything?
- (Brady: There are no even numbers except for the 2 at the start.)
- And that's because?  (It would be divisible by 2.)
- Right right. So if a number ends 
in a 2, ends in an even number, then the whole   number itself is even. By a similar argument, maybe 
a bit more subtle, there are no 5s in this list   after the the first 5 because if a number ends 
in a 5 then the whole number itself has to be   divisible by 5. 
- (Same for 0?)
- Yeah so 0 is a double whammy; it hits us both with being even   and also being a multiple of 5. So what we've 
just shown here by this argument is that we only   have a few options here for the digits that can 
appear in this list. So so after the single digit   numbers eventually it's either going to be a 1
or a 3 or a 7 or a 9. And here the point that   you've just figured out is that the number 10, the 
base is equal to 2 times 5 so we've just eliminated   all the digits that have a 2 in it or a 5 in it. 
- (Okay so we've got these four numbers; the next)   (question I guess people ask is which are most common?)
- Yeah I mean that's that's the that's the   question. So a natural thing to do is to maybe plot 
these numbers on a histogram; so let's look at the   numbers up to 100 and look at the digits. So as we 
said before there's going to be only one instance   of a 2 in this, and we put them into bins, say one 
instance of a 2. Similarly there's only one   instance of a 5 and all the other numbers up to 
100 are either going to have a 1, a 3, a 7 or a   9. One of the great advantages of a computer is you 
can just change one character again and generate   a lot more data. So if we look at numbers up to 1,000
we can get these bar charts where these   single entries are getting slimmer and slimmer 
and these other four bars are getting taller and   taller. And maybe if we go very far, let's say we 
go out to a million, we look at the primes up to   a million and look at their last digit there's 
just a tiny sliver corresponding to 2; a tiny   sliver corresponding to 5 and then all these 
other four options seems to be almost the same   height. So roughly uh a 25% chance of getting a 
1 as a last digit of a prime, same for 3, same for 7, same for 9. So there's an equal 
chance to get any of these four options. That is no   coincidence Brady, this is the prime number theorem 
in action. We've been playing this game, this fun   little game, uh looking at the last digit, but 
really we've been using the fact that we have   you know 10 fingers on our hands; but we can look 
at other bases. You know, for example computers work   in base 2, all their uh data stored with 1s and 
0s, so we we can play the same game uh looking   at the last digit uh in other bases. Let's just 
change one line of code and now uh maybe we get   something uh a bit less interesting here so we get 
uh our first uh entry is a 0 corresponding to   the prime 2 and then all the other primes have 
their last digit 1 in binary. So this just means   that all the primes after 2 are odd. Maybe this 
wasn't as interesting but the next interesting   thing we could look at is maybe uh base 3 so 
we just increase by one and we look at the prime   written in ternary and just extract the last digit. 
So as before we just have a 0 corresponding   in this case to the number 3 itself but all 
the other options for the primes are going to be   either a 1 or a 2 for their last digit in ternary.
And so this really again suggests, why don't we   play the same game, now look in base 3, maybe 
the numbers up to 1,000 - there's going to be   one number, namely 3, that has the last digit 0 but 
all other numbers are either going to have a 1 or a 2. And again these are very much dominating. 
Maybe if we go up to a million again we see that   the heights of these two options - almost 50/50 
split. And again this is no coincidence Brady. So   you could pick your favorite base, I don't know 
say 101, uh and you can have play a similar game:   you look at all the last digits of primes uh in 
base 101 let's say numbers up to 5 million and you   can get a nice uh roughly uniform distribution. And 
maybe there's a bit of wiggle room at the top but   as the numbers get larger and larger the wiggles 
start to to to damp out and you get this result. So Brady this is uh kind of a a fun illustration of 
one of the deep results in mathematics, the prime   number theorem. So people on the channel may be 
familiar, in this case the prime number theorem for   arithmetic progressions; which says the last digit 
of a prime in any base you pick eventually tends   to have an even chance. And that's of course unless 
there is some clear reason why there's a violation.  So in the case of an even digit; so as long as 
the digit has no shared factors with the base   we expect an even spread across all options. So 
maybe to be a bit more precise as a mathematician   I just want to introduce some math notation: pi 
of x here is the number of primes up to x and the   more precise count that we are interested in is 
looking at the number of primes up to x that have   last digit a in base b.
- (Pi has nothing to do with pi pi?)
- Right. So this is one of those things where   mathematicians uh are overloaded with notation 
at any time and maybe at some point in 1700s   people decided you know this was a a convenient 
letter to to use for primes; the same uh the same   consonant uh, but yeah it's kind of a stretch. 
So this is the number primes up to x that have last   digit equal to a and this is written in base b. 
The result of the prime number theorem tells us   in a more precise way that each of these options 
for digits occur with roughly equal frequency. So   for any choice of digit and base, pi of x b comma a 
we have this approximate relation that this count   is asymptotic to pi of x over phi of b. So here phi 
of b is the Euler phi function which just counts;  so phi of b is just counting the number of possible 
digits we can use. So the number of digits, a, that   have no uh shared factors with b. So in maybe 
the mathematical lingo we say that the gcd, the   greatest common divisor, of a and b is equal to 
1. Yeah so this is a a nice piece of mathematics   that holds eventually so as x gets larger. But a 
natural question Brady is maybe you're a little   bit impatient and you want to know, you know, how 
long do I have to wait uh for this to kick in and   those bars start to even out?
- (I mean that depends 
how you define even out as well doesn't it?) Right I mean so so there are certainly very technical- like 
various levels of technicality how you want to be   precise; but morally speaking all we want to know 
is how long do we have to go along the number line   to really start to see uh these numbers evening 
out. But we've now just with this uh seemingly   innocuous question, really gotten thrown in the 
deep end. Think of you know people playing around   on the shore at the beach, maybe you go snorkeling 
and around some coral, but somehow you took a deep   dive and somehow you're now at the bottom of 
the Marianas trench, you're at the deepest of   the deep in mathematics - we've now gotten to the 
Riemann Hypothesis. Okay so I really want to narrow in   on this this key relationship in the prime number 
theorem which is saying the digits really even out   in their distribution among the primes, so let's 
give this a start here. So the Riemann Hypothesis   really has to do with answering the how soon 
question about star. So the Riemann Hypothesis   tells us that star will hold once we get roughly 
speaking uh x being larger than the base squared.  So this is a key threshold; so in other words the 
Riemann hypothesis - or more precisely the generalized   Riemann hypothesis - says that this relationship star 
holds for bases b that are less than the square root   of x, as x tends to infinity. In other words the prime 
number theorem is telling us a a nice relationship   that exists among primes for any base b we we 
choose; maybe 10, maybe 3, maybe 101. But the   Riemann hypothesis is really telling us that we can get 
the same phenomenon occurring even if we allow the   size of our base to grow moderately with x, with 
the size of the numbers.
- (I've made videos about)   (the Riemann hypothesis before - and I don't pretend to 
understand it - but I've seen graphs and critical) (strips and and all these different numbers but 
I've never heard anything about the last digits of) (numbers or bases)
- Right. I mean there are many ways to 
approach this uh great trench of the Riemann hypothesis. So one of the kind of links with uh the other for- 
perhaps more standard technical formulation of   the Riemann hypothesis has to do uh with the zeros 
of the Riemann-Zeta function so-called and their   placement on so-called the critical line of 1/2. 
And it is no coincidence that the critical line of   1/2 is the same constant of 1/2 occurring in this 
threshold of the square root of x. So these are- these   two relationships are intimately linked in this way.
But I- I think this is a I guess a   more down to Earth way to kind of talk about the 
Riemann hypothesis.
- (Okay)
- So obviously the Riemann  hypothesis is one of these kind of white whales 
of mathematics that is still unsolved today. But   amazingly in the 1960s mathematicians were able 
to prove an average version of this result.   Bombieri and Vinogradov in 1965 they were able to show that 
this relationship star holds for almost all bases   b. I'm meaning that this relationship holds for 
over 99.9% of b's up to this Riemann hypothesis   range - square root of x. When I first heard about this 
result in uh my first year of uh grad school I   thought it was- I mean absolutely stunning because 
uh I I somehow felt like the Riemann hypothesis was   you know somehow unobtainable and no one's 
really been able to say anything about it; and so   I feel when I first learned about it I was almost 
feeling like uh someone's keeping this from me. So   I I really feel someone should have told me about 
this earlier. And the way I like to think about   this result, this over 99% result, maybe an analogy 
with with cleaning cleaning tools. You know if you   want to clean around the house, maybe you want to 
sanitize your hands, you get Purell. Or if you uh want   wanted to clean your countertop you get Lysol. 
It says on the label if you read it, cleans over   99% of germs right. So this is their real real 
selling point; and this is because you know for   work around the house 99% of germs is really more 
than okay. And it's only really in kind of extreme   ideal circumstances like being a hospital, in a 
hospital where you need a a full sterile room,   uh to get that 100%. And so by the same token as 
mathematicians uh the Riemann hypothesis is really   this kind of Ideal scenario uh getting a full 
result that we want to hold but for most practical   purposes as a mathematician, in my research, the 
Bombieri-Vinogradov theorem is this completely adequate   substitute uh for application- for a lot of applications. 
- (I'm not having that Jared.)   (I'm not having that. Because in the infinite- because 
in the infinite world of numbers 99% isn't)   (that much. Like there's still a lot of numbers that 
it doesn't work for.)
- That is definitely true and   obviously this is part of the conceptual reason 
why we want to have a complete understanding;   but in one of the kind of facets of the Riemann 
hypothesis is that people have proven many   results uh with the initial caveat 'assume the Riemann 
hypothesis then..' And there were many results in the   1960s that went from a conditional uh hypothesis 
to uh complete ironclad theorem once this uh   result came out; and it turns out in some technical 
settings it is enough to just know this 99%   version to get the desired end goal if you were 
using the Riemann hypothesis implicitly in your work.   (But if they found uh a power, an exponent, where 
Fermat's Last Theorem broke; there was like one number out) (there where Andrew Wiles- this building wouldn't be 
named after Andrew Wiles)
- Yeah yeah. So you know as a   mathematician you really want to get that complete 
understanding and exceptional cases can really uh   be important, and so this also ties in with uh 
previous uh things on the channel about Siegel zeros which are these potential real uh monsters 
is uh trying to thwart the Riemann hypothesis. Before   this I mean I just want to emphasize how kind of 
amazing I find this, because before this result no   one really knew anything. Like you couldn't- uh you 
couldn't really say uh much at all, uh and really   taking the statistical perspective uh has really 
been leading to a flourishing in in mathematical   research. So this is well not again the the ideal 
scenario but for most practical purposes as   a working mathematician around the house uh this 
this is really kind of an important uh tool in the toolkit. - (Okay I believe you)
- So now we get- now we 
get to the real uh the real beans. Once presented with   this result, and if we're if we're only looking at 
some of the bases and not all, a question comes up,   another question. We asked how soon? But if we're 
only looking at some of the bases can we go even   sooner? Can we get a rate of convergence faster 
than what the Riemann hypothesis is predicting?  So can we get uh bases b that are beyond this 
square root x barrier? So in other words Brady   I'm asking to go beyond the Riemann hypothesis.
 It was uh remarkable results in the 1980s that actually   first uh made a proof of concept showing we have this-
- (What is x again? Remind me what x actually is?) So x is the size of the numbers- the size of the 
primes were going up to. So sometimes it was like   100, sometimes 1,000 or a million. And this 
gets these- these uh bar charts get more and more   refined as as x gets larger. But really the the 
meat and potatoes of the question is how soon?   Can we go even sooner? 
- (That's how soon they start 
evening? But how are you defining evening?)   Yeah so I mean uh you can measure - and for example look 
at the difference between uh the desired quantity   and then the the expected average. And then- so you 
know in statistics you have the concept of a a   mean or kind of the average of a distribution and 
then also the variance or the standard deviation.  And so you can ask more technical questions about 
looking at the standard deviation, this is really   what the Riemann hypothesis is all about. So this 
is kind of the second order question about the   distribution of primes. So we have this of course 
uh result from 1965 which gets this uh Riemann  hypothesis on average bound. But this was improved 
remarkably in the 1980s, getting exponents up to x   to the 0.571. So the way to interpret this Brady, 
this breakthrough, is we went 15% beyond the   Riemann hypothesis. And this result really for almost 40 
years was the state-of-the-art going beyond the  Riemann hypothesis until about two years ago where James 
Maynard uh actually extended this result. So in   2021 he found that there were some bases that 
you could take all the way up to x the 0.60. So   in other words we can go up to 20% beyond the 
Riemann hypothesis. So after almost a four decade   uh hiatus uh there's been progress on the problem 
by James Mayard who- fans of the channel.
- (He's up-) (He's up there somewhere! His office is up there. We 
should have got him in here)
- Yeah and so today I'm   happy to say that we can get even further up to 
b up to 0.617 - in other words we can go 23% beyond   the Riemann hypothesis. 
- (What does that mean?)
- So this means that there are some bases b of up to this   size going beyond the Riemann hypothesis range, for 
which the primes in that base have their digits   being kind of nicely uh distributed as we would 
expect. So we only have to wait a shorter amount   of time, 23% uh less time than we would expect from 
the Riemann hypothesis-
- (Before they start flattening out) Before they- so so this is kind of a savings of time uh 
in one sense; in other words we can take more bases   and this result is holding for for more uh base b expansions. 
- (Do we know what any of these bases are?)   Uh so that's one of uh maybe the kind of aspects 
of this more statistical approach is that we're   looking at families of numbers. And so one of the 
insights, all all the way going back to the  Bombieri-Vinogradov theorem, is that if you look at collections 
of numbers or families of numbers together you   can gain additional insights that might not 
be as apparent from looking at an individual   number. So we can't necessarily pinpoint an exact 
b that this holds but we can still have a family   uh that's of a larger size. And again maybe in in 
an ideal scenario we can try to prove the Riemann  hypothesis and we can prove these nice results for 
every single b; but in many practical applications   these kinds of results are are very useful. We'd 
actually expect this to hold for all the bases   but that's again beyond what- so even if you prove 
the Riemann hypothesis this would be a question yet   beyond what we can do there. So that's maybe far 
off in the distance for future generations to   think about. But at least from a statistical point 
of view this is uh I feel making good progress.   (We know that it holds for base 2, 3, 4)
- Yeah so for any- for any individual fixed number, already   the prime number theorem is telling us that we get 
this nice convergence. But it's only when the bases   are allowed to grow moderately um we we want to be 
able to quantify that rate of growth. So uh already   we know even by the Siegel–Walfisz theorem which 
was proven over about 100 years ago we can allow   the base to grow logarithmically or very very 
slowly with x and not run into trouble, but really   you you have to assume these very heavyweight 
conjectures like the Riemann hypothesis if you   want an individual b to be growing uh like up to 
the square root of x. These kinds of results uh I feel   have a very uh beautiful aspect where they connect 
so that the proof ideas that go into them connect   a wide range of ideas across maybe seemingly 
disparate areas of math. So on the one hand uh some   ideas that go into this relate to modular forms, 
these kind of exotic objects uh that actually   ended up playing a crucial role for example in 
Fermat's last theorem proven by Andrew Wiles and has led   to the Langlands programs. Um on the other hand 
uh it uses results from algebra geometry; uh more   specifically the the Weil bound and the Deligne bound, 
from the so-called Riemann hypothesis for curves   over finite fields uh which is itself another 
story for another time. But I just want to convey   the sense that a lot of- uh there's a confluence 
of a lot of ideas coming together just to uh make   progress on understanding the distribution of 
just the primes. And as a just a last shout out,  so I wanted to say that there seems to be a kind 
of nice revival in this field of studying these   questions uh in the last maybe decade where there 
before had been something something of a lull;   I just wanted to shout out some people, who are   who have been uh doing some interesting work and 
we've been having a nice discussion. So it's really   good to see this uh flourishing of this this 
subject. 
...100. Between 1 and 1,000, between 1 and 1 million. For any uh n between one and n using 
his zeta function. Which is absolutely astonishing   because if you think about zeta function, something 
has to do with complex numbers and with analytic   continuation and so on and so forth. So it's a 
particular branch of mathematics which is called   complex analysis. But prime numbers live in a 
different branch of mathematics.
- It tells us things  we already suspect because we sort of believe the 
Riemann hypothesis is true but there are things we can't   prove. So for example how many primes are there 
up to a trillion? We have a formula for that that   we believe is true but we can only prove that 
formula if we know the Riemann hypothesis is true.