- One of the coolest
parts of the new house, is going to be the five person, land gaming room. Here in the basement. So that my kids and their friends, and me and my friends. That I'll make someday. Can all game together. But when Elgato reached out asking if they could sponsor a sixth streaming setup, I thought, I mean, heck! Why not make all of the
stations streaming ready? So that, is exactly
what we're going to do. This is the Linus Home LAN
Centre Streaming Setup, V1 concept edition. which means, could be subject to change, but it should be an excellent start. (upbeat music) Now, obviously my house is
still a construction zone. So this video won't be
fully representative of the final setup, but it should be pretty darn close. Other than, you know, the lifetime brand folding tables here. Now, before we even think about setting up a microphone, or a webcam,
or any of the fun stuff. We need a computer to run it all. In the longterm. The plan is going to be to
virtualize all of these stations, off of a single server
in my mechanical room. So the conduit is going
to be accessible here. So it'll run under all of these desks. We probably won't be able
to do sit-stand desks for that reason, but that's kind of TBD. Now, just in case we decide to do standalone machines in here, we do still have the room
wired up for ethernet, but my preference is to have
everything in the server. For now. Of course, everyone. Hey, there you go. I mean, the video is sponsored by Elgato, of course, Sarah. So it be that much of a surprise. So this one right here is the a200, featuring a liquid cooled Ryzen 9 5900 X, an RTX 3080, and a boatload of storage! And high-speed RAM. It's small, sleek, and well-equipped for even
the most demanding games or streaming setups. Which is why I won't be using one. In fact, I think the final config
for each of these stations is going to be more along the lines of eight virtualized AMD epic cores. And then maybe more like a 3060, something like that. Monitor wise, things are a bit more up in the air. I think 27 inches is the perfect
size to have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. And then actually we're
probably going to have a six station right here. That's just a network port. So you can pull up a laptop
or something like that. Make it a nice, even six. But in terms of resolution, I'm leaning towards 1440 P. Just because I think it's a great balance between the high refresh
rate gaming you get at 1080 and obviously
the better image quality that you get at 4k. This particular model, the LG 27GP850 has been a
lightning rod for controversy, but the panel in it this nice, fast response time, IPS is definitely something
that I would want in here. Just like I would want
this beautiful desk pad from ittstore.com. Now this isn't the best case scenario for Elgatos, poor wave panels here. This is an enormous room
that is basically nothing but flat concrete surfaces, and we've only got six of them. But we wanted to show them to you guys because they will almost certainly be part of the final deployment. Once. You know, there are walls. We'll probably put some
on the ceilings as well because stopping those reflections between the floor and the ceiling
is one of the key ways to cut down on audio reverb. Are these, are these sufficiently mounted? I can, I can put wave panels on them now? - [Jake] Uh, Sure. (Jake chuckling) - If you want to see a more practical and scientific demonstration
of how well these work, check out our video, where we treated our workshop with them. It's really impressive. While Jake mounts, the
rest of the wave panels. Let's talk about the
rest of the audio setup. So, I could have opted for the
much less expensive Wave:3, but some of my experiences with USB, all-in-one microphones
have not been the best and they don't give you the greatest amount of control over your setup. So instead we've gone for the Wave XLR, which has all the same
integrated mixing controls, headphone output, and all that good stuff. Except you can plug literally any XLR microphone you want into it. So let's get this set up. I've never used this thing. - [Jake] I think it looks pretty cool. - Yeah. - [Jake] It's sleek. - I mean, one of the things
that Elgato does really well is that everything they do
is designed for streaming. So a lot of the XLR interfaces out there, for example, they're designed to lie flat, right? - [Jake] Yeah. - But that's not what you want, when you're, when you're gaming. You want something that you can, you can reach for more easily. So this is now it feels good. Got USB-C. There's your headphone Jack. And there's your XLR input. Right around there is where I want that. No, I want it on the left side, left side and then I can have
the stream deck on this side. Actually. No. Okay. No. So no, I do want it the other way
around because the stream deck, I'm going to mess with more often and I'm more likely to want to take my hands off of my mouse then. Oh, right. Yes. Yeah, I want it to be able
to keep my hands on WASD. So yeah, let's go XLR on this side. (both chuckle) - Wait, how the hell are you
going to put this one on here? - [Jake] Screw on the side. (both chuckle) - Oh really? - [Jake] As long as it
holds itself up, right? - Okay. Where's the mic arm. It seems pretty standard.
As far as mic arms go. Caution, spring loaded. Don't get, don't get bashed in the face. You know, little things
like that, but there you go. That guy just goes in there. We're just going to try
it. This is terrible. (drill running) - [Jake] I mean, tell me
how horrendous this is. - You kind of nailed it. - [Jake] You're damned straight. I did. (Jake laughing) I'll never call you a screw up again. - [Jake] Oh good. - What? Come on. That's funny. - [Jake] You've never
told me screw it before. - Look at it, it's a screw. Cause you're putting a screw in. - [Jake] I probably called you a Screw. - Uh. I figured out what all these pieces do. This is a riser. So it can be, like up higher if you want. There's a little hex lock. I don't think we're going to need, Oh man. - [Jake] Do you wanna know that it's for? Apparently people install
these behind their monitor and come over. - Oh really? - [Jake] Yeah. I don't know
why you would ever do that, but- - Uh. - [Jake] If you had a very,
like wide ranging microphone that could pick up really
far then maybe yes. - Yeah. That's not going to
be what we're doing today. And I'm probably going
to need the counterweight because for our microphone, we've settled on an SM48 from sure. (Jake testing microphone) - It does actually sound
a tiny bit, less bad. (Jake laughing) - Yeah. It's just that most of the echo in here is off this concrete floor, and those flat walls back there. That shouldn't be too much
of a problem for us though. The SM48 for sure, is a dynamic microphone with a cardioid pickup pattern. That means it should
reject most off-axis noise and pick up your voice. Nice and clear. Let's get this cable, man. It's and then we'll give
you guys a quick demo. This is not a perfect solution. Oh Lord. - [Jake] Oh God. Don't do that. No! I don't want to have to
take this down like that later. - See! But look, look, it'll stay out, it'll stay out of the way. - [Jake] Oh, did you? Oh yeah. Well you're doing it now. (Jake laughing) - There we go. Normally on an XLR interface, you would want to plug your headphones for monitoring yourself,
directly into the interface. So you have zero latency. Let's see how well Elgato
software ecosystem handles that. All right. We're firing
up our game stream here Ladies and gentlemen,
going to play some Doom, Actually, we should just move on to the next part of the
video we're going to host and we can just do it on here. What's the next thing
we're going to do lighting? Man, that sounds great. Also they have come a long
way on their software. Elgato. This is handy. The Wave link software has a quick link to your advanced audio preferences. So as soon as you launch your game, you're going to want to set
its output to Elgato's game. A wave link game. Here we go. And then that way OBS will
be able to pick it up. You can access this through windows just by right-clicking, open sound settings, add volume. Whatever. But it's a lot more clicks, whereas it's just right here. They just have a shortcut to it. That's kind of handy. - [Jake] Do you want to
see what's really cool? If you set your game to Wave link game. - Yeah. - You can then have it
come up as a tracking here and then you can create separate mixes for your monitor mix and your streaming. So if you want to listen
to copyrighted music in your headphones while you're streaming, but want your stream to hear
a monster cat or whatever, you can give them two
different audio tracks and it's all done in Wave link. You don't need like virtual audio cable or any stupid crap like that. - That's pretty cool. Most streamers like to have
a face count of some sort. So that is where the aptly
named Elgato face cam comes in. Now at home, I actually
use a different setup. I've got an Elgato cam link 4k USB stick, and I've used that to connect
to a Cannon DSLR camera. It works great, but it is large. It's more complex to set up and troubleshoot if it has issues. And that is even before you consider how expensive it would be to kit out a DSLR or a mirror less camera for every station in the room. So, that's where a more reasonable setup like a webcam comes into play. On the outside, this thing is pretty minimalistic looking, it's, you got your lens, your
detachable long USB-C to A cable, a small status led over
on the left of the lens and an included monitor mount. On the inside is where things
get a little bit more fun. Elgato designed their own eight element, all glass lens, which is paired with a Sony Star Vis Simo sensor. That's designed to
provide excellent clarity with minimal noise up to 1080 P 60 FPS. They also included a bit of
storage on the camera itself. So that any settings
changes that you make, follow the camera, not the computer. One cool feature, or rather lack thereof, is that the face cam
doesn't have a microphone. And it prevents you from getting
popups and notifications. Anytime, say, for example, you unplug or plug something in and Discords like, "Hey, do you want to switch
to a new audience devices?" So freaking annoying. How does it not have a
never asked me again? - [Jake] I think there
is a never ask me again. - I think there is. I don't think it works (Jake chuckles) - Anyway. We're not going to be using
the built-in monitor mount because we are going with
the Elgato ring light. Now at home, I actually prefer
my pair of key light airs. These are basically the same product. They're just little square panels, instead of a big ring shaped one. So you've got the same
adjustable color temperature at the same adjustable brightness and everything can be
done through software. The big difference is that with my giant 48-inch display, I can put them out on the sides and then I can decide, do I want like kind of
a more dramatic look? So I have a little bit
less lighting on the side, a little bit more on that side. Whereas with the ring light, what you're getting is what
ring lights are good for. Which is nice, even illumination. Clock's ticking, got to shoot the video. (both chuckle) - No, I, I really liked their mounts. Super easy to use. - [Jake] Yeah. - I think Luke had trouble
with it, but you know, whatever, just lead things. I know this video is sponsored by Elgato, but I really do need to
complain about one small thing. Like this is, this is the
longest power bring up. What are you compensating for? I cannot, how am I
supposed to plug this in Take something entire out? Hold on. I think I, I think I
managed to jam it in there. Uh, hello? Hey, there we go. I can't believe we made it this far without setting up a stream deck. If you're not familiar with these. Come on guys. This one specifically is
Elgato Stream Deck MK.2. Which features type C,
interchangeable face plates, as well as the detachable
45 degree fixed angle stand. But each of 15 keys, is an individual display. So you can have whatever icon you want, their full color, and you can configure them to do anything. From button presses to macros, to starting and stopping your stream. Now that the latest connected to wifi, we can adjust our color
temperature to be warmer, cooler. We can adjust our brightness. Whoa. That's that's pretty. Bright boys. - [Jake] 5,600. - Sorry about that. Okay. What do you want? You want 5,600. - [Jake] Yeah. - All right, there we go. And then it's probably a little bit on the bright side right now. Let's at least get a
couple of things configured on our stream deck here. Alright, let's go ahead. And I mean, I don't know. This one can be record. Boop. Basically instantaneous,
uh, you know, seen. - [Jake] I have a gift. Oh, you have such a
terrible, ugly background. - That's true. I did fix that. - [Jake] This is Elgatos green screen and they actually have two models. This is the floor standing one. They also have one you
can hang from the ceiling. That's a bit bigger. But for our purposes, this is just fine. All you gotta do is open the locks, grab this bad boy and you have a green screen. I think the manual probably
says adjust the feet first (Jake chuckles) - [Jake] before you open it. But. - There it is. - [Jake] Can I do that again? - What's up, Jake? You can play around with
these settings in here, you can see how similar
the color needs to be, There you go. So here we filter out, basically anything that has
any color other than red. Uh, here, we're basically
not filtering out anything. So you just want to find that, right about there gives us a nice uniform, a gray on our green screen. That's what we're looking for. Is that it? I noticed we had some
other stuff over there. Yeah. They've got the pop filter, which we don't need
because of our mic choice. Capture card, in case you've got like a, you know, next gen console. You want to stream your 4k
gameplay or whatever else. Shock Mount. We didn't end up using the wave three. So we don't need that. Light strips. We got the green screen, so
we don't really need that. Okay. We're gonna play. We're gonna play some
competitive CS Go here, ladies and gentlemen, we're
getting competitive today. Now that we have CS Go configured to use our wave link game output. We don't actually have
to have our desktop audio play a role in OBS at all. Everything just goes
out into the stream mix, which we control through
the wave link app. So you're going to see when
I highlight this window, our in game music shows up here. That's a little loud, both in my headphones and in the stream. So we're going to turn
that down a little bit. Have a look at our levels. That's about where I like to
have my background music going, like somewhere in the
minus 30, minus 25 range. So that's pretty good. Now, if I was actually
playing competitively, I would restart it because
Counter-Strike does not like being changed from Window to exclusive full screen. But I suck anyway. So all right. Official matchmaking. - [Jake] Oh really? - Oh God. I'm going to die. I'm going to die, Jake. I'm going to die. (Jake chuckling) - Um. Oh God. They're
going to come through. They're going to come through here. They're going to kill me. I'm too casual, Jake. This guy's telling me
to go back. I disagree. - [Jake] This is the worst
live stream I've ever watched. - Officially pro gamer Jake. Where are you at? (gunshots fire) - Ah! Come on. Well, I helped, I helped
I did 21 damage to him. All right. Let's make sure this recording
is actually good, hey. This is awesome. - [Jake] You look great. Look at your, - I know it's clean. - [Jake] You should get, you should get a green
screen, it looks so pro. - I probably, I probably should. - It does look so pro like, look at that and then look at
the room we're in right now. - I know. Right? You would have no way of
knowing. It looks legit. Okay. Let's try and get one more kill. I want one more kill. Oh, oh, the buy period has expired. Okay. That's a problem. It's
slightly, mildly problematic. (gunshots fire) - Come on. Ah, no. Well, all right. Didn't even manage to hit them. Man. It's amazing how much
this stuff has improved. Back when we set up our
original green screen for tech quickie in the old house, we spent a hundred dollars
on just the material. And then we had to like jury rig our own like hanger for it that took a lot of time and probably ended up
costing more than this. Obviously this is a little bit smaller. This is really designed
for a game streaming setup, as opposed to a full host with, you know, full arms reaching
out and stuff like that. But we have a bigger one.
That's super reasonable, actually all things considered. Yes, You too, can look and sound that pro even in a horrible environment that is not conducive to streaming. And it's that simple. All you have to do is
spend a bunch of money. Obviously we're going to have
everything linked down below. Thanks per se for sponsoring this video. Or Elgato. I guess thanks to you for watching. Pro streamer Jake in 3, 2, 1. Did I get it? - Oh yeah. (both chuckles) - Wow. I sound like a streamer, streamer.