- On a budget? Trouble typing in the dark? Is there some other reason that you need a cheap keyboard, and fast? Well, odds are that you bought this one or rather one of these ones. And I know what you're thinking. It's 'cause it's cheap, right? You're only half right. Which also means that you're half wrong. So why the (beep) is everyone buying this gaming keyboard? To find out, we bought it, actually them, and poured through the
over 30,000 Amazon reviews to see if popular equals good. Spoiler alert. It does not. Sometimes y'all really goof it up, but I would never goof up this segue to our sponsor, Crucial. Step up your game with
Crucial's P5 Plus NVMe SSD. You can easily upgrade your
new PS5 or your gaming PC with up to two terabytes
of additional storage that comes with a five-year warranty. Get yours today using the link down below. (upbeat music) The number one best seller in
the gaming keyboard category stood out for one obvious reason. It's technically a combo pack. I mean, who doesn't
wanna free mouse, right? So it only felt fair to also have a look at the runner-up in the category, a standalone mechanical keyboard
for around the same price. Starting with the Redragon S101, the title kind of says it all. You get a centrophorus, centrophorus mouse and a basic membrane gaming keyboard. Both of them wired and both with RGB. That's how you know it's gaming. The keyboard has multimedia
keys if you're into those, the backlight cycles through
a variety of colors and modes, and it includes a wrist rest. More on that later. As for the mouse, it's got six buttons, five of which are programmable, a nearly ambidextrous design, and a sensor that can change DPI from 400 all the way to 3200 with
four adjustable presets for whatever you want in between. And they can even be tuned via software. But that's about it. It's cheap and it works, mostly. While reviews for the S101
are generally positive, 75% of you gave it five whole stars, Most of the praise for
the combo seems to be, how do I put this, kind of basic. It's the more critical reviews that really hit the nail on the head for why we don't think that you guys should keep buying this thing. First up, the keyboard is
membrane, which for starters means that if any key starts to fail, you're probably gonna need to
throw the entire thing away rather than performing
surgery on a single switch like we did in a recent video. It also means that typing
feels characteristically mushy. And as for the keycaps, while you might like the soft
touch right out of the box, don't be surprised when
they start to wear out in a matter of hours, making
the legend much harder to read. And this is particularly true if you have more acidic skin oils. The flip-up feet are a nice inclusion giving you two different angles, but while the wrist
rest I mentioned before is technically included, that is it. the best thing I can say
about it is that it's so small that you're unlikely to actually end up resting your wrists on it, because the textured plastic, especially under the right palm area, is as uncomfortable as
it is tacky looking. What's never tacky those
the merch from lttstore.com. Make sure to check out our
new RGB diodes T-shirt. On that note, the tiny print manual includes simple instructions
for how to cycle between RGB colors and
modes, but from some angles, the keys near the bottom
seem to shine much brighter than the ones near the top. To be clear, if you get a working one, you'll be able to hone
newbs with it just fine. But many of the critical reviews mentioned keys either outright
failing after a few months or registering extra
characters when pressed. These complaints could be due
to Dorito dust, that's on you, but given that the
product description boasts that the keyboard is built to withstand the average liquid spill, I think it's fair to expect more. As for the mouse, it's fine. Onboard weights were a pleasant
surprise at this price point but the other glaring issues overshadowed any joy
that we could have felt. Both Plouffe and I found
it extremely uncomfortable and for different reasons. And even if we had tiny
hands shaped like this the sensor just plain isn't
good enough for serious gamer. Another issue, many of the
low-star reviews bring up, is how easy it is to hit the
side buttons by accident. And we agree, though, at
least it does have them. The bottom line is while
many of our complaints might feel like we're just
hating on budget products. That's not the case. In fact, we've got a
review coming on the GMX-7, the cheapest gaming mouse on Amazon. So get subscribed for that. The issue is just that gamers, who are on this tight of a budget, guys, you'd be better
off with a basic combo from a reputable brand like Logitech rather than spending twice
as much for some tacky RGB. But what if you did have
a little more to spend? That's where our runner-up
gets really interesting. The K552 Kumara is a tenkeyless
mechanical gaming keyboard for just 35 U.S. dollars. It even supports hot-swapping
the key switches, sort of. More on that later. It's got 19 different lighting modes with per key illumination, as long as you get the
actually RGB version, your choice of clicky,
tactile, or linear switches, and much nicer keycaps than the S101. The positive reviews for
this one are pretty accurate and mostly focus on things
like value, the backlight, and compatibility with Mac. It's still absolutely nowhere
near the build quality of a mid-tier mechanical keyboard, but compared to its membrane brother, and for $35, had I mentioned that yet, there's just no contest. By spending the same amount of money but ditching the mouse from the combo pack we get a sturdier board
right outta the gate and maybe more importantly,
we get options, people. Don't like the keycaps?
Put on something else. Don't like the switches? The
Kumara's hot-swap PCB means that there is no soldering required if you wanna replace a broken switch or try something new altogether. So then why don't they
list that as a feature? The Outemu switches that it comes with feel and sound about like
we'd for a Blue-alike switch, but they have thinner pins
than your average Cherry clone or Enthusiast switch. So unless you're using
something else also from Outemu, you'll actually need to file
down the pins one by one in order to fit them through the holes. Please don't spend your time doing that unless you really want to. The keycaps are double shot and the RGB shines through quite nicely, though you might not like the font. And while the casing is plastic, it's got way more heft than the S101 at almost two pounds thanks
to the higher quality switches and the metal plate. It's not as easy to take apart
as a DIY Mechanical Keyboard but the K552 can be torn down and upgraded mostly through lubing the
switches and the stabilizers. "Switch and Click" actually
made a video doing exactly this almost a year ago, so if you're looking for
some help getting the most out of your Kumara 552, make
sure you check that out. Our main issues with this keyboard, aside from being stuck
with Outemu switches, mostly revolve around
the non-detachable cable, the attempt at rubber feet, and it hardly helps with sliding, and the overall look and feel compared to a more
expensive DIY tenkeyless. But there's one argument that wipes out all of those nitpicks. It's $35. There are competitors in
this price range on Amazon, but they're typically
either not hot-swappable or the low-star reviews mention some pretty rough
quality control problems. Though the Kumara isn't
entirely free of those either. Most of our low-star
reviews mention chatter, that's when the keystroke
registers multiple times, or the keyboard just dying
after a month or two. Ours has been perfectly fine so far but you should note that
your mileage may vary. If you're looking for other options, we haven't actually tried
these other keyboards, so we can't fully vouch for them, but while they have
significantly fewer ratings, we have at least a couple competitor picks for four and a half stars or higher. First up is this mechanical
keyboard and mouse combo pack from Havit which sports 6500 reviews with 76% of them being five-star. It's the same price, but
the mouse and keyboard both look a little nicer. There's not as much branding
being thrown in your face. And the keyboard is mechanical. So you give up your
dedicated multimedia keys but I think that's a worthwhile trade-off to get away from membrane. As for finding an alternative
mechanical keyboard at this price, it's pretty tough. YoChic has a full-size board for $30 and it's got a perfect
five outta five stars, but there are only 18 reviews. So that could easily just
be the CEO of the company and all their friends and family. If you're willing to up
your budget a little bit and you don't mind a smaller layout, the RK61 from Royal Kludge is just $53. It's hot-swap, uses a detachable cable, and has a solid rating
with over 7,000 reviews. But, that's a much higher budget. So I'm gonna say it, screw
it, go for the Kumara. If you wanna find it or any of the other items that we've been talking about today, we're gonna have them linked down below, along with our sponsor NZXT. With NZXT's build
getting a custom-built PC is easier than ever. Just set your budget, see how your PC will perform
in your favorite games, and build takes care of the rest. Build's recommendation engine
provides benchmark data for the expected
performance of your machine at both 1080p and 1440p and their FPS estimates are guaranteed to be within 10% accurate. You can customize and upgrade your build from various NZXT case options
and RGB lighting setups, and they feature transparent pricing with a flat $99 assembly
fee in your local currency. And it'll be built and shipped
within 48 business hours. With all your PC's components covered under one warranty plan, NZXT will manage any problems you have, and they've got expert live chat for realtime help and troubleshooting. So go check them out. Don't wait. We're gonna have them linked
in the video description. If you guys are looking for another video to watch right now, why not check out our mouse version of "Why is Everybody Buying This Thing" about the G502 HERO,
really great gaming mouse. One of those and this keyboard
for like 70 freaking dollars, 80 duck bucks, you're
like loaded for bear. I love it.