Yeah so today I want to show you these funky 
laser cut wooden tiles. You can see they all have   different patterns, different squiggles, they're 
cut out in different sizes. I'm hopefully going   to teach you a fun game that you can play with 
them. Before we get to the tile part you may or   may not know this game we're going to start 
with: Set. This is a card game, it's beloved by   mathematicians everywhere in the world. It was 
actually invented in 1974 by Marsha Falco who   was a geneticist - so not a mathematician. And she 
invented it while studying epilepsy in German   shepherds which is very cool. I want to take just 
a moment to explain the rules. So if we look at   the deck here, these cards are not like normal 
playing cards; and if we wanted to describe them   you might notice that there are four characteristics 
that we need to describe. So each card has a color;   each card has a number of objects on it; each card 
has an object with a certain shape and each object   has a shading. So what are the options? If I tell 
you there are three then we can see what they are.   Every card is either purple, green or red. Numbers,
again there's three options: so we could have one   object, we could have two objects, or we could have 
three objects - all the same you'll notice, there's   only one type of object per card. Then shape we 
could have this oval, we could have squiggle, or we   could have a diamond. And then the shading we could 
have it be empty, we could have it have stripes,   or our last option is it could be solid. And so 
in this table now we have exactly one card for   every combination. So for each card you can only 
have one characteristic per quality and so there   are 81 cards total. 
- (Brady: Let's see your shuffling skills) 
- No no no no. You and I are playing   a game; well first you're gonna lose - I'm just kidding. 
- (Oh no; you're gonna- I'm gonna lose?) 
- 12 cards I didn't do a great job shuffling 
but we're gonna go with it.  Okay and so then we need our definition. So what 
we're looking for is a set, is a collection   of three cards such that in each category the 
cards are either all the same or all different.   So what that's saying is that in each of 
the four categories you either have one of   each option where they all match. And it doesn't 
have to be the same for each category; you could   have a purple card, a green card, a red card that 
all have one oval open and that would be a set.   Or you could have more variants; so let's see if 
you can find a set here.
- (Okay so and- and you and I)  (normally we would be racing to see-)
- Racing exactly, right exactly. 
- (But we're not racing?)
- No I'm gonna   let you have all the time you need. 
- (So like for example these three here that have three ovals,) (would they be a set? Or are they- are they-)?
- So let's look at these threee. So they're not going to   be a set. They're good on the oval, so there's 
three ovals, they all have three and they all   have different shadings; but the color is a problem. 
Because they're neither all the same nor all different. 
- (Ah so it's got to) (be multiple colours? I'm with you, I'm with you, all right.)
- Exactly, exactly
- (Oh well that's not- it's not as easy as I thought then)  No. Now I'll tell you there is a set 
on the board, I've found one.
- (Let me- well how about-) (Oh no, that's not a set 
because we've got two lots of three)   (Okay? Is that right?)
- No, that's not a set 
because there's two threes yeah, exactly. There's a-
- (Yeh I see why that fails.)   There's at least two sets on the board. 
- (Okay. I've got a good feeling about this one.)
- Mm-hmm  (That, that, that. So I think that's a set because we've got 
a three, three, three. So we've got a set on the number criteria) They're all the same.
- (A red, red, red)
- All the same.
- (All the same. We've got three different)   (shapes so there's no shapes the same; 
and solid, solid, solid.)
- Perfect! That's   a set. 
- (Okay so in the game I would then keep 
them)
- You would keep them and we'd deal   out three more cards and then you go again.
I think different types of sets pop out to   different types of people. So I often find much 
faster sets where all three colors are different.   For some reason it's just easier for me to find 
those; versus the one you found is all three red   cards. And so I think it really varies by what 
sets pop out to what people. Now if you play   this game, especially with mathematicians, it can 
get a little obnoxious how fast people are. I am   actually not that fast of a Set player, I'm just a 
big trash talker, and so part of the goal today is   to show you some harder versions of this game 
that slow everybody down.
- (Hang on, before we go)   (Give us another set from that group.)
- Give us another? Oh gosh I'm so bad at this. Okay   - my sister's gonna laugh at how long this 
takes me - okay so this is another set. So it's   a similar flavor to the one you found; all the 
same color, all the same number, different shape,  all the same shading. I would say that these two 
sets are kind of the same flavor set so let's   see if we can find one with different colors. 
So here's one where we have different colors,   and you'll notice I found it much faster. We have 
three different colors, three different shapes, all   one, and three different shadings. So this one has 
more variance than these the two sets do somehow.   (Nice. All right I get- cool game.)
- Yeah. So part of why mathematicians love this game,   beyond it being a really fun game to play, there 
is a lot of really cool math behind it and a lot   of questions that we can ask. So we're not going to 
dive into that aspect - there's a lot of papers you   could go read about it. But for example we could 
say, must there always be a set if we deal out 12   cards? Right? Because theoretically there could be a 
set or there could not be a set. And that's a very   famous question in mathematics; it turns out until 
you deal out 21 cards there doesn't necessarily   need to be a set present. And you can also ask 
questions about how many sets are there - all types   of things. And so to explore any of these types 
of questions we want to impose some structure   on this game mathematically. And so the way we do 
it is that we're going to have a funky numbering   system. The mathematical term; we might say it's 
a sort of modular arithmetic, or finite field. The   basic idea is that we assign a 0, a 1 and a 
2 arbitrarily to our rows of characteristics. So   arbitrarily we say that purple's 0, having one 
is a 0, oval 0, open a 0. And so on and   so forth for 1 and 2. But we impose this funny 
rule that 1 plus 1 plus 1 is actually equal   to 0 in this arithmetic. So for example if I add 
1 plus 1 then I get 1; but if I add 1 plus   2 plus 2 then I would normally get 5 but 
every time we see 3 we cancel it out so this   is actually equal to 2. It's modular arithmetic 
exactly, mod 3. And so with this, now for a   card well we can assign to it a 4-tuple, a 
vector where we put in the number corresponding to   the character. So let's do this card here. So this 
card is red so its color entry is a 2, because   red is 2, and then there are two of them so what 
number comes next? That's a 1 and then we have   squiggle so it's a 1 again and its shading is 
stripe so it's a 1 again. So we would call this   card the 2-red-squiggle-stripes; the vector or 
the 4-tuple (2,1,1,1). And so this this   will now give us a nice space that we can study 
and we often say that this would live in like   F(3,4). So this is just the 3 here 
is reminding us that we're working mod 3 and the   4 is saying that we have four qualities. So 
we have now this dictionary right, so we have our   cards that we described using these English words 
and we now have a tuple. And so what's cool about   this math system is that a set will correspond 
to three vectors or quadruples in F sub 3   to the 4 that sum to 0. And why is this 
the case? Well if we think about what it means to   be all different, right, then that means you have 
a 0, a 1, and a 2 showing up in that entry   of your vector; and in our special math 0 plus 
1 plus 2 is 3 which we've said is 0.   And if you're all the same then you either look 
like 0 plus 0 plus 0 which is 0; 1 plus 1 plus 1 is equal to 0; or 2 plus 
2 plus 2 is equal to 0. So if you're all   the same in a category then you also get a zero in 
that entry when you add your your vectors across.   And so we get this really nice correspondence 
mathematically where if you want to know what   a set is then you're really looking for three 
vectors in this space that's up to zero. Just to be   clear when I say zero I mean (0,0,0,0). 
So the vector length is four- four entries for our   four characteristics but a card gives- corresponds 
to one vector. So if we want three cards where all   the characteristics are the same or different then 
that means we have three vectors where each entry   of the vector sums to zero. Okay so the one you 
found, so we have- so let's do our tuple. So what's   this card? Well we have red and then we have 3
and then we have oval and we have solid. We again   have red, again have 3, now we have diamond 
and then we have solid. And then we have red, 3, squiggle, solid. So now we sum these - the way that we 
sum across a vector is that we sum each entry. So   2 plus 2 plus 2 is 6 but that's a multiple 
of 3 so that gives us a 0. Again 2 plus   2 plus 2 gives us 0. 0 plus 2 plus 
1 - well we had that case here, we get 0 and   2 plus 2 plus 2 is 0. I'm being a little 
sloppy with my equal sign here, I'm saying equal in   this in this space.
- (If you had special goggles that 
let you see the cards as their vectors rather than)   (as they appear, would that make the game easier 
or harder?)
- That's a great question; and so actually    I think this is part of why mathematicians 
love this game is that you actually can think   about it in terms of the cards, you can think about-
I would say this is an algebraic interpretation. So   we're thinking about it in terms of algebra. Or 
you could actually think about it in terms of   geometry, where in fact if we lined up for example 
all of the red cards that are diamonds then you   could notice that sets are exactly the lines 
showing up in that space. And so we actually   have another definition that's equivalent. So to 
answer your question I think it probably depends   on who's playing; some people are probably really 
fast at the algebra, some people might be really   fast with geometry. I do think at the end of the 
day that the cards are often the most fun way to   play. And so I'll talk about this a little bit 
with these new variations of the game, but what   you're really looking for is a game that is fun to 
play and interesting mathematically. All right so   now I want to talk about some generalizations 
of this game that I actually invented with   two friends when I was in grad school. So the 
friends are Jonah Ostroff and Lucas Van Meter.  We just- we love this game and we're very 
competitive so we like to find new harder versions   of the game. How can we generalize this game to 
other mathematical structures? So if we think back   to our to our original game, right, then we said 
we were over this F 3 to the 4 - that's kind of   our structure. What do we need to make Set - and I'll 
put in quotes because I mean with other structures.   The first thing we need is we need some collection 
of elements; we need some cards. So in this case the   elements are these 4-tuples with the numbers 
0, 1 and 2 and our cards are normal Set   cards. We need some way to combine our elements. In 
our normal Set game we took our two vectors and we   could add them component wise. And so if you give 
me two cards I have a mathematical way to combine   them. So in whatever elements we come up with, we 
need a way to combine them. Then we need some sort   of target where- something we're trying to get to.
So again a normal game, where we're trying to get   to is (0, 0, 0, 0) - that's what we're trying 
to add our elements to. So this is some type of   target element we could think of it as an identity 
or zero depending on what type of elements you're   working with. And then lastly we want to know that 
for any two elements there is a way to get to the   target right? Because if you've picked two cards 
and there wasn't a third card that could complete   the set it wouldn't make the game very fun. So bare 
bones this is kind of the minimal list of things   we need; and in math we might say one one structure 
that satisfies this if we took a group. So a group   has some sort of elements, it has an operation 
that allows you to combine your elements, it has   an identity element, and you can always- if you pick 
a group element you can always find a way back to   the identity. So what I want to talk about for the 
rest of the time are different groups that we can   play Set on - and there are actually a lot of them. 
But today we're going to talk about a specific   type of group, it's called a permutation group. 
I'm now going to explain to you what these funky   lines are, and so they're actually corresponding 
to permutations. So what do I mean by a permutation? Well we're going to simplify things and we're just 
going to say we're looking at some collection of   numbers, integers, 1 to some number n but we'll 
just say 3. So 1, 2, 3 and a permutation   is a bijective map between these sets. So it means 
that every number on the left gets mapped to   exactly one number on the right; and in particular 
that means that every number on the right will be   mapped to by exactly one number on the left. So for 
example we could send 1 to 1, 2 to 2, 3  to 3. So that's kind of a boring permutation. 
A more interesting one might be we could send 1 to   2, 2 to 1, 3 to 3. So these are going 
to be our elements, so our elements are going to   be these maps between sets of numbers. And so 
this group in particular we might call S sub   3 because we're looking at three numbers here. 
And so now I said we need to build a combined   permutation; so if this is our first permutation 
how can we combine it with another one? Well we   just do what's most natural and we concatenate 
them. And then for a second permutation 1 goes   to 2, 2 goes to 3, and 3 goes up to 1.
So then if we want to combine them we just trace   along the line completely, and so we'd say well 
1 first goes to 2 and then 2 goes to 3 so 1 ends up going all the way down to 3. 2 
goes up to 1, 1 goes down to 2 so 2 goes to   itself. And then 3 goes to 3 and 3 goes up to 1.
We now have elements, we have a way to combine them,  I wrote down our target and you'll just have to 
believe me for now that for any two elements we   can always find a way back to our target. And it 
comes from the fact that these are going to be   groups. Okay so now the punch line here is that we 
can play this game; and so on each of these cards   you have one of these permutations that show 
up. And so now the way we play Set is that   you're looking for some combination of three 
that when you put them together you get back the   identity permutation. But what's interesting 
about this version is that order matters. So if you   think back to our original there's no ordering on 
these cards, but there is an ordering for here. So   once we deal them out you have to find a subset 
in this order that compose the identity. So if   we take these two - so one, okay so it's going to be 
this one. When we compose these three together you   can trace your finger along the 1 it goes down 
and back up, down it comes back up, 3 it goes   up and then back down. So this is what we would 
call a set in this game.
- (What are the red dots) (down the bottom there?)
- That's a great question. So 
the red dots at the bottom correspond to whether   or not we can write this as an even or odd number 
of swapping of lines. So there's a lot of theory   behind these types of elements and so it just 
helps- for example you can prove that any set   here has to have an even number of red dots. So it 
helps you when you're trying to find them because   it's much harder in this game. 
- (I want the lines- the 
position of the start point of the lines-) To start and end.
- (to start and end in the same spot.)
- That's what you want, that's your identity. (Yeah okay. Well that sounds hard)
- It is hard. And to tell you the truth 
this one is quite easy because there's only three   lines. So let me show you the tiles now. We can do 
this for a lot of different sets of permutations.   So on these cells you'll notice they have four 
positions, 1 to 4 instead of 1 to 3; and   it makes the game much harder. So with just three 
starting and ending spots you have six cards; with   four start and ending spots you have 24 cards. So 
these are laser cut and you'll notice the wedge at   the bottom- isolate this one right, you'll notice 
there's a notch here and it's the same reason   that you can write this permutation as exactly 
swapping two lines. So we have this one is harder   to see but you could write this one as well as an 
odd number of line swapping, so it has a wedge. And   so the way we play is we deal out, that imposes 
an ordering on our tiles, and then we're looking   for a subset. Now we play - this game's made up so 
you can play however you like - but we play three   or more tiles, it's very restrictive to say you 
have to have exactly three tiles. So for example,   so these five tiles which you'll notice I kept 
the order the same, we can trace our finger, 1   goes down to the spot 3, up to 2, down to 4,
up to 2, back up to 1. 2 goes up to 1, across,  down, down, up. And so you can trace across that you 
do in fact have the identity permutation across   all five tiles. 
- (It feels to me like you've made 
the hardest game ever. Like I feel like I would)   (look- I would look at a bunch of those tiles and 
it would take me a year in my head to- to make)   (those paths.)
- Yeah so this is actually probably 
the hardest of the tiles I'm going to show you; I've never found one. Myself when live playing. So this one I- I back constructed. And the interesting thing though 
is that the tiles are really fun to play with   even if you're not playing by the rules so to 
speak, just because you learned so much about   how these permutations work. So I would agree, 
I think this is the hardest of the tiles that   we have.
- (So for my- so if if you've got a bunch 
of them in front of you even you can't see the paths?)   Yeah. There are other people who are better 
than I am. So I have seen students or other colleagues um find sets in this. But let me show you the other 
tiles because I think they're actually- they get   more complicated mathematically but actually 
easier to play. So the next one we have here - I have them on paper first. We have two games at 
the same time of our original S3 set. So the red   and the blue games don't know anything about each 
other, you're just playing red and blue at the same   time which makes it a lot harder. And so to win you 
have to have a simultaneous set on top and bottom.   Crazy. Now I have seen people find these sets live 
but you can see the tiles; and again if you look   really closely you'll notice that there are wedges 
at the top and the bottom to- again that really   helps when you're looking for these. You can join 
them together, so you'll notice like this one this   bottom has the little circle here and this one 
has a little diamond up top and that corresponds   to the fact that they're transpositions. And then 
just to see how they combine, these ones if you   combine these two you get this. And so for this one 
I actually just have a set pre-done so we won't   even be looking for it, we can just see because I 
think these are really hard. Although I will say   some people find these really fast. So if you 
look here on the top we trace along, we get our   top line works, our second line works, and then 
we automatically get our third line for free   if we have the right number of wedges. And then 
similarly for the bottom hopefully this is a set, yep, yep, okay. We might call this S3 cross S3 set 
which is saying that we have two copies of our   S3 set and they're independent of each other so 
there's no relationship between the two. So now   we actually come to my favorite version of this, 
it's called wreath product set and it was actually   suggested by Josh Mundinger at a summer program 
that I work at. These cards look very similar to   our ones before, so recall these were our S3 cards. 
So you'll notice they have the same sort of S3   permutation but now they have these blue dots as 
well. The rule is that if you have two marbles on a   strand they cancel out. So every time you have two 
marbles they cancel out. So if we wanted to combine   these cards, I claim it's equal to this card over 
here - so let's see why. Well on our first strand we   come across, it starts and ends in the 1 position 
so it goes straight across, and the two marbles   cancel out so there's no marble left. The second 
line it goes across, up, back down to the third   position, so we have 2 going to 3 and there's 
one marble. And then the third line goes up to 2   and across so the third line goes from 3 
to 2 and it has three marbles so we cancel- we   cancel out. So to find a set in these cards we want 
the identity permutation in S3 plus an even number   of marbles on each strand. Snd so these tiles I 
think are very pleasing, the way that they're laser   cut out. So again you see the marbles are these 
holes on the right side, the wedges are still there,   so I have a deal for us. Now I say this is partly 
my favorite because this one is actually playable   I think in terms of just staring at it for a 
little while. So to save us time I think 2, 3, um 5, and 7 make a set. So if we combine 
those together then we have 1, it goes down   to the bottom, across, back up, two marbles. 2 goes 
back to its starting place, two marbles. 3 goes   up down to its starting place and two marbles - so 
that would be a set here. What's really interesting   about this, going back again to your question 
about playability, is that this game of S4 right   is actually equivalent to a subset of these 
wreath product tiles. So it lives inside this   game but somehow this game with- with our dot is 
way more easy to keep track of in your eye. Like   it's way easier to play compared to this; I find 
this impossible. These are I find quite fun. And   so I think another fun aspect of these is just 
when you're trying to learn about these types   of groups mathematically you learn all sorts 
of properties just from playing with the tiles.   If you look on the website there are some 
versions back to this original game of Set,  some twists on that, as well as some other 
visualizations of games that already exist.  Yeah video description.
- (We'll have a link)
- And I also should say for me as a math educator I think one of the   biggest utilities of these games besides being 
fun is they have been really helpful for me in   the classroom I think. Where just when you're 
starting to get familiar with these types of   more abstract ideas in math it's really 
helpful. For example with these wreath   product sets it's a really nice visualization 
of what's called a semi-direct product and so   I think the exercise of writing out the math 
to go along with the tiles you learn so much.