- I wasn't expecting a major innovation in case design this year, and I certainly wasn't
expecting it from HP, but here it is the omen 45L. Possibly the biggest game
changer in case cooling, since the Antec P183 introduced the concept of
isolated cooling zones. HP has dabbled in custom
cases in the past, but this scientifically cooled,
metaphysically fire design, whatever that means, is their first that there's
just no other way to put. Looks absolutely, freaking amazing. They even got a patent for what they call their Cryo Chamber
Cooling, a solution that, at least on paper makes the Omen 45L one of the best cooled
pre-builts on the market. So what happened here? Our sponsor knows, but
they won't let me tell you until I say, thanks SmartDeploy for
sponsoring today's video. With zero touch, zero
headache, PC management for IT, SmartDeploy, lets you
deploy windows, apps, and drivers from the
cloud, no VPN required. Get your free subscription worth over $600 at smartdeploy.com/ linus. (upbeat music) (energetic music) The Omen 45L boosts a top
of the line spec sheet, but none of that is what makes it unique. What's special is all
in the attic up here. The top contains a liquid cooling radiator and 120 millimeter cooling fans. Then there's this void with
an angled airflow deflector that makes it a completely
independent cooling zone. So cold air goes in, hot air comes out. Zero compromise cooling. 'Cause the thing is, in a
traditional case layout, you end up sacrificing cooling
performance in some way, no matter how you slice it. Either you mount the radiator in the front where it's gonna preheat the air that ultimately gets sucked into your GPU or you mount the radiator to the top giving fresh air to your GPU, which spits it out into your CPU cooler. The bad news is that HP's patent means that nobody else can do this. But the good news is that at
least you can buy the case separately if you like what you see. So why don't we take a closer look? There's definitely some OEM PC flare. You've got a nice
tempered glass side panel, but then you've got these little
weird, unpainted bits here. I mean it's not a huge deal. One really nice thing is check this out, cable management grommets, totally standard ATX mounting, this pass through for the radiator tubes, that's kind of a little weird, but there's plenty of room in there. You can definitely put a thicker ones, and if you really wanted to. Hold on a second, there's a release. Oh, look at this. This is cool. Quick release front panel, just got these little buttons right here. Easy to clean front
filters. Is that magnetic? I think it's magnetic. Yep. All the RGB intake fans. More OEM PC weirdness. This bottom fan is
screwed in from the front because the basement kind
of limits access to it. And then the top fans are
screwed in from the inside. Solid front IO on the case
though, if you buy the pre-built, I'm not sure that it entirely makes up for the kind of flacid rear IO on this particular motherboard. And in a shocker from HP, the
cooling for the motherboard, and actually look at that,
even the SSD for that matters. Pretty freaking awesome. Easy to remove top panel. Mm, that's a missed opportunity. Dual 240 mil rad instead of a 360. We're gonna see if that hurts us later. Curiously, even though PC Gamer reports that you can buy the case stand alone, maybe it's coming later 'cause I don't see it on the 45L page or under Omen accessories
on the U.S. site. Coming back then to the pre-built, which you actually can buy them. HP claims that they've beefed up their motherboard VRM cooling and are using more off
the shelf style parts this time around which
it seems that they are. And that's great in theory. We already saw that they're at least using standard form factor, motherboard,
case, and power supply, which should make future
upgrades relatively painless. But I just can't shake that feeling that something's rotten in
the state of Denmark here, 'cause here's the thing, HP has a long history of
kneecapping high-end components to the point where it almost feels like they intentionally limit
their products performance. So we need to deal with that. But first, we wanna
know if the Cryo Chamber is actually working as intended. So we rigged up our Omen 45L
with four thermal probes. One at the intake, one at the exhaust for each
of the two thermal chambers. So the bottom and the top here. And a final one measuring
the ambient temperature in our room. We then loaded up the system
in three different ways. First, we hit all 16 of our CPU course with prime 95, small FFT. Allowed our coolant temperatures to equalize in our radiator, and found that there was a
whopping 12 degree difference between the temperature of
the air at our work bench and the radiator exhaust. So in real world terms, that means that if you were
pulling hot radiator air into your gaming rig, it could easily drive up your GPU temps
by 10 degrees or more. But what if we went the other way around, feeding fresh air to the GPU first and then hoping that it can
still cool our CPU afterward? Yikes. Running FurMark, we measured
a 20-degree difference between our front air
intake and our rear exhaust. Now this is a bit of a
worst case scenario for that since most cases would feed at least, some non pre-heated air. You know, maybe from the
top here into the radiator. And there's only a single
one, 20-millimeter exhaust, but both of these scenarios demonstrate how you could easily end up cooling one of your components optimally at the cost of thermal
throttling the other. As for the Cryo Chamber,
does it work? Yes. Our final test, a combined
CPU and GPU load showed us that while the corner of my office where we were running the tests did heat up by a couple of degrees. The way that HP routes the CPU heated air off to the side and then the
GPU heated air out the back means that the entire system is getting ample access to fresh air. It's freaking fantastic. Go buy one now. Uh, not so fast. Our performance woes with HP desktops have never actually been
caused by poor thermals. So we need to know, is it fast
or is it just fast for an HP? To find out, we gathered up a
test bench with the same specs using off-the-shelf gaming parts, nuked HP's pre-installed software bloat because that's the first
thing you should do when you buy an HP anyway, and took our rigs to the drag strip. And well, this is a good omen. Get it. Out of the gate, the 45L
measurably outperformed our control bench in both F1
2021 and Flight Simulator 2020. CS GO is a little less clear cut with our control bench
managing better averages. But given that the Omen posted better 99% minimum frame times, I'm
inclined to call this one a draw. Unfortunately, the same can't
be said of Cinemabench R23. What the heck is going on here? How is it that you can
come out ahead in gaming and then with exactly the same specs fall behind by nearly 5% in rendering? Like this, it looks like whatever fuss HP has made about their beefed up VRMs
and Keeping Mother Cool, whatever that means. The Omen 45L's poor 12900K is so power limited under sustained load that even manually overclocking
the course to 5.2 gigahertz results in basically
exactly the same score. It's a solid 32 watts below
Intel's rated turbo power for this chip. Well, that's a simple fix you might think. Fire up the UEFI bios, set all of Intel's various
boosts to their maximum, call it a day, right? Wrong. I have seen thin and light Notebooks that have more available tuning
parameters than this thing, but I'm a gamer, not a
professional 3D modeler you might think. Who cares as long as it's
gaming performance is good? You do, and here's why. As I was puzzling about
the performance advantage over our reference system,
I came across something odd. HP went out of their way
to equip this machine with XMP capable HyperX 3733
mega transfer per second at CL21 memory. But they are running
it at both lower speeds and higher latencies than it is rated at with absolutely no way to
activate the XMP profile and run it at its full potential. What the Sams honest hill
is going on here, HP? Now we've got another question to answer. Is our control system
getting beat fair and square or is it only getting beat
because we're forcing it to play in the same week sandbox as the Omen 45L? What if we did what
any sensible enthusiast who just spent over a
$1,000 on a GPU would do and spend another 20 bucks on a Ram? Holy bananas. It's a blood bath, folks. Curiously, our Cinemabench
scores did go down a little bit, but in gaming we have unlocked
so much more performance that our control is beating the Omen 45L by anywhere from a couple
of percent to nearly 15% in Flight Sim 2020. So yeah, while our initial numbers have HP as the big winner, it turns out that's only
because they stacked the deck in their favor. The silver lining though, is
that all of this is fixable either by HP seeing the light and fixing their power
delivery limitations. Please, HP I'm rooting for you here 'cause otherwise I
really liked this thing. Or by just obtaining the case
somehow and building your own. While you're at it, I've got
a couple of suggested tweaks. Spend the extra 10 bucks and get a triple rather than a dual 120
millimeter radiator for the top. Upgrade that 850 watt
power supply to 1,000 watt. Just to be sure. And maybe go for a
full-sized ATX motherboard. Oh, and leave out the
McAfee and Dropbox installs while you're at it. You will end up with the
same great Omen 45L design, just with less Hp-enis chotting it up. I need a sponsor to cleanse my palette. Thanks to FreshBooks for
sponsoring today's video. FreshBooks is easy to
use accounting software that helps you do your business. You can impress your clients with professional-looking invoices that detail the work you've done, use automated payment reminders
if invoices get past due, easily track expenses and
use their time tracker to log every minute of billable hours. So you don't have to think about it later and keep everyone on the same page with their projects feature, which makes it easy
for clients, your team, and your contractors to collaborate, share files and comment. Choose a plan that's right for you and start your free trial of
FreshBooks for 30 days today. No credit card required
at freshbooks.com/linus. Thanks for watching guys. You know what? Since you're done now, why don't you go and watch our
second secret shopper series where HP pulled this exact same move and ended up with lower
performance than the competition as a result. Oh, I guess that's kind of a spoiler, except not really because you already know that they would do this to their
highest end gaming rig, so. (upbeat music)