So I'd like you to imagine a 
cake, are you imagining a cake? Good, uh better still let's use a cake shall we?
- (Brady: Look and I've even got a sign for you.) Two candles and one cake - so that is that is the 
new puzzle. The puzzle was originally set without a   cake, it was a stick. I've deliberately got a linear 
cake; we have two candles, I like your choice of   candles, these are fresh candles, unlit and they're 
both blue. That might be important later on that we   can't tell the difference, although a spoiler alert 
it's not gonna be that important. And the puzzle   is very simple, Brady, I would like you to imagine 
that the candles are placed randomly on the cake.   There should be a klaxon going off, like 
what do- what do I mean by random? But I   will tell you, I mean uniformly randomly on 
a line along this cake. I don't care about   the sideways movement, like imagine there's a 
line along the centre. The candles go in somewhere.   If I wanted to do it- simulate it, maybe I could 
generate a random number from zero to one   in some uniform way and use that to mark how far. So maybe that one goes there and this one   goes somewhere else randomly there. The puzzle 
now comes when you pick up a knife and you say,   the cut of this cake, we're going to split it into 
two portions, happens also randomly. If I cut it   here then- I'm not too worried about the unequal 
pieces, we'll just deal with the aftermath of that   another day. The point I want to talk about this 
time is that there is not a candle on each piece.   So the question becomes now a probability 
question; if the candles go on randomly and   the cut is done randomly what are 
the chances that each piece has a candle? I'm interested to ask your 
intuition Brady, what is the probability   of each piece having a candle? 
- (Feels like it's going to be 50/50.) Why? I know I'm asking you wh- while you're operating your camera and that's always tough but-
- (It feels like the cut should be 50/50.) What about the cut? 
- (It feels like when you average 
out where all the cuts happened after a zillion)   (cuts the average is in the middle.) 
- The average is in the middle. I agree, and actually that's true of   the candles too but that makes it slightly 
less intuitive because they're all averaging to   the same place now so- The thing I like about 
this puzzle is that at first glance to me - and   I'm a mathematician but I'm not you know I'm 
not an A-grade mathematician, I'm a maths   teacher really - it feels to me at first glance 
I don't know how to start. I don't know how to   start putting numbers on this other than my 
intuition. A lot of people say 50% to me,   they think that's- so your intuition is like other people's-
- (Can I ask a question? Is it possible) (to cut the candle? I'm assuming it's impossible to cut the candle.)
- I think that's a good assumption and   I love working with you Brady, you're an 
excellent mathematical modeller, you are aware of   the complications that could get involved and you 
decide to make things simple. Now we- once we solve   this one we could start having non infinitely 
small point candles and do it, but I suggest we   don't bother yet. This is what mathematical 
modelling is all- right let's keep it simple   until we've sorted the simple one out. That's the 
puzzle, if you haven't already paused the video   and you want to think about it now's a good time. 
What I'd like to do for this one is solve it in   more than one way and that's kind of the point I 
wanted to talk about here, is that mathematicians   solve things in more than one way, and that's 
almost always what makes some profound insight   occur. Because if you say it from one perspective 
and another perspective you've got like a   joining up at the back and that's a nice moment so 
we're going to try that in this one. Other piece of   problem-solving advice, and for you as well, that 
if you're stuck on something try a simpler puzzle.   So if I took one of the candles away, my question 
has now no meaning right? What the chances we get   a candle on each piece? Obviously can't happen. So 
candle goes on and I cut somewhere randomly, what   are the chances it's on the left? The candle-
- (50/50!)  That- it's got to be 50/50, it feels like there's   symmetry all over the place. They're both random 
and actually the easy way to answer that I think   is an ordering idea; either the candle comes first 
or the cut comes first and there's no reason why   one should be more than the other so you've got 
to go 50/50. That gives us a clue for our first   way of solving the problem: hey, if we want to split 
this into three ways to solve this problem, here's   part one, ordering. So ordering solved the simpler 
version, it was either the candle first or the   cut first, so why don't we try some ordering 
argument? And this is where I probably have   to write some things down. C for candle? Do 
I- do I differentiate between the two candles?   This is the other problem mathematicians have 
is like, do I need to model them as different? And we've got two candles that look identical so 
I'm just going to say they're indistinguishable.   So let's say the candle could come first 
and then the other candle and then the   cut, that would be one way of ordering the outcome.
- (What are you going to call the cut?) We could use like a V shape for a cut or a K?
- (K for knife.) Yeah I mean it's annoying- it's an annoying   uh initial letter to use frankly.
- (I like K for knife because a K is what a strike in baseball as well so) That is one possibility. I think this is where your 
instincts from the simpler one kick in, you realise   well there are other possibilities and they don't 
feel like they should be any more likely or less   likely, because this is these are all random. Candle, 
candle, cut - cut with a K is now going to be in my   head forever more. What else could happen Brady? 
- (You could do the knife and) (then the two candles?)
- Yeah, and that doesn't feel like less likely or more likely. Is there another option? (Yeah you could do a candle, a knife, and a candle.)
- And that's the one that sort of answers   the question I started with, is that's the only 
time we're going to get a candle on each piece.   And since all of these are equally likely - although 
I haven't done a strong sort of careful argument   for that - but it feels like it's believable that 
one should be not more likely than the others,   which means that we get a third for that, a third 
for that, and a third for that. I now think this is   one way of claiming that the answer to, what are 
the chances we get a candle on each piece, is a   third. Which isn't a million miles from your 50%,  but 
what I like-
- (It's quite a way!) Well I'm trying to be kind. The intuition for the single candle one, however 
stupid a question it is - it feels like a dumb   question - but it's much more strong intuition for 
me that that's 50%. And then when you can upgrade to 2 you feel like, well maybe it's less likely and 
so if I'd given you the chance I'm sure you'd have come down. Anyway, maybe that's right and maybe it's not; there's another way to solve this which uh   maybe feels a bit more mathematical but the 
key to this one is that each of those options   was equally likely, otherwise you can't make an 
argument. I guess we should mention that there's   a danger in every probability question about 
this, like what's the chance you win the lottery?  One argument says you either win or you don't, so 
it's 50/50 right? And obviously the misconception   there is they're not equally likely. So whenever 
you're making an argument about probability from   studying cases, you've got to check they're equally 
likely which I think we have done.
- (And that would have been the)   (same if we numbered the candles, if we had candle 1 and candle 2?)
- I'd forgotten about that, and you   should- you're right to pick me up on that, I'm glad 
you asked. So let's say it's candle 1, candle 2,  cut - or knife whatever you call it - now we've gotta 
we've got more options. So maybe if I mark these,   right that's a 1 and that's- these are the best 
numbers you've ever seen, almost as good as my mice   from a long time ago. Now there's another option 
right? With the cut over there I could have candle   2, and counter 1 and these would switch round 
and that would be a different option. But by a   similar argument you might see where this is going, 
there's no reason to say that one's more likely   than the other, and so actually the other option 
you said: cut, candle, candle could be these two   and you can see how this is going to pan out. And 
now we've got six options, each of which is equally   likely, and two of them satisfy our conditions so I 
still think we're in a third and it's nice to know   that if you're worried about whether the candles 
matter - I know some of you are worried - the uh it   doesn't. The argument works both ways around. Hey 
that's already two ways and that was only part one.   Method two, let's do another way of solving it, 
because if it comes up with the same answer we're   golden. If it doesn't we've got to ask questions 
about at least one of the methods. So method two   uh I want to go mathematical on this, I said that 
these are three decisions; there's a candle, candle,   and a cut - let's represent each one of those random 
things by a number. So candle 1 is a number   between zero and 1, uniform random distribution, 
candle 2 is a number zero and 1, and the cut   is a random number between zero and 1 which 
tells me where it will land. Now if you have two   numbers you could draw a two dimensional picture 
of what could- like you could have one dimension   and the other dimension for the other number. So if 
you have three numbers, like in our case, we need to   draw a three-dimensional picture of the outcome. So 
actually what I'm talking about is a possibility   space but it's going to be a three-dimensional 
picture. If I start drawing it on here- being able   to draw in 3D is a surprisingly useful skill for a 
mathematician, and I'm not doing a geometry problem   here, but I'm drawing a probability space. So that's 
x,y and z - 'zed' if you're in England. And let's say x   is the is candle 1, y is candle 2 and let's 
say z be the knife? Somewhere between zero and 1 on this axis, somewhere between zero and 1 
on this axis, and some between zero and 1 on that axis   will describe the situation we end up. So what 
we've actually got is a cube. And any arrangement   we've got here is a point within the cube. I mean 
I can hold one right? So a point in this cube   represents the outcome of our randomness, and 
we can simulate this nicely on GeoGebra.
- (Of course!) Of course I really like GeoGebra as a sort of tool 
for tinkering, and what I did here was I drew   my cake and I've got a line that I can cut. So 
I can choose where the cut goes, I can choose   where candle 1 goes, and I choose where candle 
2 goes. And you can see that over on the right   it's moving things around, so actually let's let's 
make this spin a bit so we can see what's going on.   The x-axis for candle 1, the y-axis for candle 
2 and the vertical axis for the knife, and all   three measurements give you where the point is 
in space. If I put the cut somewhere in the middle   and the candle over on the left here, can you see 
that this point I'm representing in the 3D space   is it's gone bold and I've got a little 
announcement here saying 'cut is between   candles'. You can see that from the cake, but if 
I put the other candle over here it hasn't gone   bold. So basically there's a whole region 
of the cube where we've got a success, and   there's a region of the cube where we haven't got a 
success. So I'm just going to colour in in the cube   the points where the cut is between the candles. 
And I think you might be able to see where this   is going in terms of getting a probability out of 
it because the entire space is all the possibles,  and those two regions - it's necessary to spin 
this to see what those regions look like - you can imagine that those are the regions 
where the knife is in between and it's really   narrow in the middle if the candles are close 
together, there's not a big region, and it's wide   if the candles are far apart. So the only 
question now is what volume of the cube is   shaded? What proportion? It's not trivial but 
it's also not that difficult, particularly if I   uh spin one of these regions; without turning, I 
promise you I'm not transforming, I'm just going   to spin it around. And we get a square base 
pyramid in fact, that's occupying one side   of the cube and going to a point. In fact, here's 
a cube right? And if I pull one of these off   this is the shape we've just made. Now the way 
I've configured it it didn't automatically turn   into this shape but it is that volume. And I don't 
know if you remember the volume of a pyramid Brady,   there's no reason why you should. 
- (Is it base times height?) 
- Base times height gives you the   uh volume of a cube-
- (And then what? Do you third it?)
- It is a third yeah. And this cube was volume 1 so this volume is a third. Which is a relief 
because that's the number we got earlier and what   we've done is we've proved this in two different 
ways, we've done it by an ordering argument   from our paper earlier - and ordering in space not 
time - and we've done it by a geometry argument   which is the volume of a cube. Now the one catch 
is, what if you didn't know the volume of a pyramid?   And so here's my point about solving things in 
two ways, what I like about this by accident is   that we're solving a probability problem, we did 
it with ordering, we did with geometry, and if   I don't know what the volume of a square based 
pyramid is I can prove it to you by probability.  I'm saying the answer is a third so the 
volume of this shape is in fact the third   of a cube; and hey a proof of the volume of a 
square based pyramid via a cake cutting exercise.   This is a serious point, if you can solve 
things in more than one way you have   two perspectives and there's quite often a 
moment of profound insight; like that's when   mathematicians get excited, you have two different 
ways of looking at a problem. Worth mentioning   there's another way of proving these fit together 
to make a full thing, and there's three of them   if I lock them together - these are 3D printed -
then they obviously make a cube. Now that's   not a mathematical proof but it's pretty hard to 
argue that those three shapes do make a cube and   therefore if they're identical they are third each. 
So we've done the two different ways but I promise   there was deep water here; maybe this isn't so 
deep, it's a profound moment to do things from   two ways but there's at least another way of doing 
this and a glimpse of why questions like this are   maybe more dangerous than you want them to be. I'm 
gonna refer to something which you talked about   with Grant in a recent video about Bertrand's 
paradox and how thinking about cake led me on to   thinking a lot about what you and Grant 
talked about. So the third way of solving this,  and this is a nice thing for all mathematical 
problems, is instead of theorising just do it. So   uh you're gonna record a thousand takes of me just- 
no no we're not gonna do it. The trouble is this is   where you start noticing how would you actually 
pick a random point for the candle without like   a random number generator, it's a pain. So without 
cutting the cake and spoiling our tea break later   we'll simulate it, uh what mathematicians might 
call a Monte Carlo method. But we'll simulate it   because if it doesn't give us a third we start to 
doubt all the theory which we've carefully proven   twice so let's simulate it. So apologies for the 
crudity of this model, I feel like I'm quitting Doc   Brown there, but this one's not a scale model 
of Hill Valley, this is a scale model of a rubbishy   rectangular cake. I've got two tiny candles on 
here and a cut and all it's going to do if I   click on one of the buttons here, it's just going 
to pick random positions for each of them and you   can see this one there's a cut just in between 
the candles - success - and it's going to count them.  And I'm not going to keep clicking, I'm just going 
to let it go. This isn't rigged, but it's done   50 odd trials now, it's not doing super quickly, but 
we've got a success rate ticking away up here that   is relievingly to me as a mathematician settling 
around about a third. Now I wouldn't expect it   to be really tight on a third until I've done 
thousands; and it actually always surprises me   when I do models how long it takes to converge 
on what theories- even if I believe the theory   it takes a long time for randomness to to back it 
up. But it's not bad, I mean this feels like I have   rigged it, but it's settling about 0.34 - but this is 
backing us up which is a relief. So the two ways of   solving it don't feel like they've had any crisis 
of conscience and the experiment, however computer-y   remodeled it is, is is backing us up. Slightly 
above a third at the moment. The trouble is,   when we upgraded this problem from sticks to cake, 
it feels very natural for me to then in my head   upgrade from linear cake to a proper cake. So I 
started asking the question, what happens if you do   this on a square cake or a round cake which feels 
much more traditional. And I scared myself slightly.   If you'd like to see ben scaring himself with a 
'proper cake' check out the links to part two of   this video. They'll be on the screen and in the 
description. Or if you'd like to just see more   Numberphile videos about stuff getting cut, well 
let's just say that's a topic we've covered before.   Cutting a round cake on scientific principles... 
- I mean there's more to a cake than just size.  Some people like the sort of crusty bit around the outside..
- Again, links in all the usual places.