- Behind me are 100 people. And they range from the age one all the way through age 100. And I've trapped each of them
in their very own glass cube. The last one to leave
their cube is going to win half a million dollars. The challenge has officially begun. Let's see which age is the best. - So, I'm representing for 31. I've got the best view
and the best motivation. - You want the best?
You got it right here. - My daughter's turning
three this Saturday. Emery, daddy loves you, this is for you. - 69, feeling fine. And I gotta winning on my mind. - Boing, boing, boing. - What's your strategy
to win this challenge? Keep in mind, I have over 300 cameras set up literally everywhere, so we'll be monitoring their every move. And one of the first things I noticed was that the kids had a crazy strategy. - My strategy is to make a lot of noise, so people like don't get any sleep and they really wanna get out. - And, I can't believe
it, but it's working. The old people were not having it, and they started leaving right away. - Can somebody make that
girl stop screaming? - And even some of the kids got out because of it. - He's building up suspense.
- No! - Did you want the money?
- Yeah. - Then why did we leave? - I have good news for you. You've survived longer
than the one year old. - That, don't, come on. - Do you think this will be easy? - I am a World War II veteran. It'll be peanuts. - True.
I appreciate your service. Thank you. We're a couple hours into the challenge and 10 people have already gotten out. So, we decide to leave them
alone for the rest of the day, which caused even more people to get out. - I want to go home. I want to see my kids. Bye. - I gotta go to school. - I just don't think
it's for me at my age. - I got really bored and I miss my dog. - Here's some money for playing. - Oh, are you serious? - But, some people were
more determined to stay. - You know, I'm a big family guy. Hopefully, pay off my
sister's student debt. - I have a deal with one of my grandkids. I'm here to show him
how strong I am at 70. - I don't need a strategy,
I'm good 'til Christmas. - It's the start of day two, and only 76 people remain. Let's see how the a
hundred year old's doing. How's it going? - I'm awake! - It's the start of day two. Do you want to keep going
or do you want to get out? - I think I'm gonna quit. It's something my family
will never forget. - You fought in a World War, and competed in a Mr. Beast video. - Yes. - Going into day two,
I've been pretty good. - The money's right there. It's right there, within my reach. - Whoa, how are you growing
so much on the walls? - Chap stick. - It's always amazing to see how people fight their boredom in these last to leave challenges. Some draw on the walls with deodorant, while others build pillow forts. So, I'm gonna give them an opportunity to take this challenge to the next level. We're 24 hours in, and
it's time for a vote. In each of your rooms you'll notice a green button and a red button. And if a majority of you
press the green button, we'll do a challenge, but that will eliminate a bunch of you. If a majority of you press the red button, we won't, and we'll
just continue as usual. - I chose red. Why take unnecessary risks? - Not voting green. - I am ready to do something
and get some people out here. - Green is we do a challenge. Red it-
Okay. - Reveal the results. 63 people voted for a
challenge and 13 didn't. - I've got my game face on today. - The game is three cup monte, but we made it slightly bigger. A ball is placed under
one of these three cups. Nolan, Chandler, start moving 'em around. Whoever remembers where the
ball is, stays in the game. Everyone else is eliminated. - The guys are so cute, it's hard to keep my eyes on the cups. - Have you ever seen
someone that focused before? What's that over there? - You are unbelievably tricky. - Oh, my gosh, what's that over there? - Not falling for that. - It worked on the 82 year old. Do you have any idea which cup it's in? I guess it's up to chance. But some people lost track of the ball and had to trust their
neighbor for the answer. - It's like you blink or
you look away for a second and it's gone. - We relied on a consensus here. - New strategy.
- What? - We're not gonna tell
'em the correct thing. When they ask, it's a different color. - I trust my people, I think I'm good. - I'm nervous because I
don't wanna get kicked out. - They've been watching these cups for an hour straight. If they still know which
cup the ball is under, that's really impressive. Everyone, I need you
to lock in your votes. Hit the button that lines
up with the cup you choose. - I don't know who to trust. - Green. - He said red.
- Red. - She said blue.
- Blue. - Don't trust her! - I don't trust the
man over there, at all. - You're done, big boy, done. - Reveal what color they picked. Only three people picked green. Nolan, were those three people right? They were not. Most people picked blue. Let's see if they're right. They are! - We're out.
- We're outta here. - By the end of the challenge on day two, only 52 people still remain. And the tensions are getting higher. - We got an enemy now, the old guy. - I know, look at him. - There's friction
between these two groups. - He told me red.
She told me the truth. - These are the people
he's been talking to the whole time we're here. And they told him the wrong color. - Her and I were just playing with him, giving him the wrong color. We were just having fun with 'em. They took it the wrong way. - If you gotta win by lying, then that's not the way we want to play. - What they've done is, they've turned a bunch
of folks against them. A bunch. - At this point, you're probably wondering
how they use the bathroom. Push this down. Okay, the light outside
the cube just turned on, which means Chris is now
gonna bring you a toilet. I couldn't get plumbing
in all hundred rooms, so we have portable toilets. This is now a bathroom. Let's get out of the
bathroom, oh my goodness. - By the end of day two, almost half the contestants
have been eliminated. - It was fun to tell 'em the wrong color, 'cause they didn't know what to do. - Wait, why do you want
number 22 out so bad? - We were beefing earlier. - Tension, now, is at an all time high. - Makes her want to get out. - You know it doesn't, right? - What?
I can't hear you! - I'm hungry. Leave me alone, I'm hungry. - God, pissing me off. - Which naturally caused
more people to leave. - It's time to go home. - You got really far.
- Thank you. - By the end of day three, 54 and 74 were the biggest targets. How's it going everybody? - Woo! - We're halfway through day four, which means it's time to
vote on whether or not we do another challenge. If you vote yes, a lot of
people are gonna get out. This is not the same
as the last challenge. So, vote with caution. How's it going?
What'd you vote for? - Challenge. - You're not worried it could get you out? - I like to sow seeds of chaos. It's more fun this way. - Why are you pressing it so much? - Let's do the challenge. - All right. The results are in, and only nine voted against it. You each have a piece
of paper and a sharpie. I want you all to write a number of one of the remaining
contestants on that paper. Whoever gets the most
votes, is eliminated. 60 second timer starts now. I told you this challenge would be brutal. - This is gonna stink. That's what's going through my head. - I'll betcha they're trying
to vote me off right now. - In the last challenge, there was a lot of lying. So, now, the people that were lied to are gonna vote out the
people that lied to them, so it pays off to be honest. - What's your vote?
- 54. His cockiness and his lying. - 74, she's not a very grateful person. Somebody needs to go, would be her. - You wrote that down quick. - Yes, we got his whole block. - So, everybody's voting for 54? - Yes. We're going to see who has more influence. - Things are about to
get real interesting. - Everybody reveal your answer in three, two, one. Oh! I'm seeing a lot of same numbers up here. - There's such a big
war between 74 and 54. - The results are in. And it was actually scarily
close, within two votes. The loser is 74 with 14 votes. Nolan, can you please show 74 out. One down, now we need to
do that nine more times. - Woo! - We all just basically came
to a consensus at the same time that 10 needs to go. - He's so annoying. Like, he literally voted for me and I didn't do anything to him. - That's a strong minded
child right there. If he stayed the whole time, he could win. - The ten year old's my favorite. I really hope he stays in. - Yeah, I'm thinking
ten, I'm so sorry ten. But, if I don't vote for
you, then they'd want me out. - I'm not a hundred percent sure, but I think he voted for me. - Three, two, one. All right, everyone, show
your vote to the camera. - Savages. Savages.
- Oh, my gosh. That is a lot of tens. I'm sorry, little man. This is officially the
first decade eliminated. - You guys are sick in the head! - You outlasted this entire row. The only reason they voted you out was cause they were scared. - I felt so bad for ten, I
invited him onstage with me to co-host the rest of the challenge. - He's probably gonna kick me out. - Okay, I need every single
one of you to vote for 14. - 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14. - I don't know how to put this, but almost everyone voted for 14. - We have to think in terms of who's the biggest threat, and this one's gonna be tough. Get ready. - It's time to go. - The 50 year olds were
determined to eliminate people, and they had the most voting power by far. - 73 is also one of those bad apples. - 73.
15 Votes. - They got a pretty big
power block right there. - Oh, my god. The 50s might single handedly take out everybody in their 70s. - 71?
Okay. - 71 got 15 votes. - I've never been so
threatened by 50 year olds. - It's kind of scary. We lost some good friends. Hate to see them go. - I hate doing this.
It was 75. - This is insane. - I wanna say, everyone voted 69. - I feel so sorry for you. - 69, you've been voted out. - Look at what you've done. - The next person is 35, with nine votes. - We randomly chose. - And I'm sorry to say, 21. - We can only all be friends for so long. - I'm actually seeing a lot of 96, so let's go hear what she has to say. She was very close to being eliminated. - Great, this is what you want, I'm happy. - Dude, she's so cute. The fact that she's sweet, tells me that I know her
grandkids miss her at home. - My arms. My arms. - Let's see who you savages dog piled on. Show the numbers. Over half of you voted for 96. I don't understand you people. She's not the biggest threat here. - Oh. I'm sorry.
- Thank you for everything. You know, it's the way
it is, and I'm happy. You know, it's what everybody wants, and that's what's important. - This is heart wrenching. - The purge is now officially done. If you're in your cube, you survived. Because of their alliance,
the 50s made it through the entire voting game untouched. And, yet again, somehow 54 survived. - On to the next. - Either challenge or no challenge. - I gotta vote no challenge,
'cause I can wait it out. - It's time for another challenge vote. - I know for a hundred percent I can win if I do no challenges
the rest of the time. - I vote yes for challenge. My chances are getting better and better just like everybody else's. - I could wait it out. My house would be paid off. I'm ready to retire. This could be it for me. - 20 of you voted for a challenge. Why are you gambling? You guys are crazy. Inside of each of your
cubes is a Jenga tower. We're gonna pull blocks out one at a time, and, if your tower
falls, you're eliminated. Pull your first block. It can be any block besides the red ones. We're gonna keep doing this until there is only ten people remaining. Pull the second block out. Looks like no one has been eliminated yet. Let's do another one. - My heartbeat is so fast. - I'm just waiting to hear
the crash of Jenga blocks. - That was close- Oh, my gosh, I called it. One person down, 14 more to be eliminated. This is gonna be crazy. And, while they're pulling pieces, I wanna tell you about the Shop app. It's the most amazing way
to shop from your phone. The Shop app makes shopping extremely fun. From buying Feastables bars, to e-bikes, to whatever else you're interested in, it's super easy. And, when you're ready to buy, you can speed through
checkout using Shop Pay. - It's not coming out. - The Shop app uses AI technology to scan hundreds of millions of products, and recommend the ones best for you. I'm so nervous. - So am I. - Oh. Oh, wait, wait, wait. Wait, wait. - I can't touch- - Oh. Shop will even track all
your packages in one place so you'll know exactly
when each of them arrive. And, remember, we're doing this until there are ten people left. - Yeah, whoa! - What are you doing?
- Nothing. - You can't be trusted. - Oh. I bumped into the thing. - Yeah, I noticed. - Only one more to go. - It all comes down to this. She could be the last person. - I can't believe this hasn't
hit the ground already. - I know, whoa. Bro, your tower has tilted 30 times. I can't look, I can't, oh, I gotta look. But I can't look, I gotta look. - Come on, Brenda, think
about the backyard Jenga. - Backyard Jenga don't have Jimmy in my- - That is the final elimination. - I can't believe it. I'm top 10. 90 gone, ten left, let's go. - If mom wins the $500,000, we are going to Disney World. - Download the Shop app right now. We're gonna be selling Jenga blocks and other parts from
this set on the Shop app, which I'll tell you more
about at the end of the video. This challenge has eliminated
everyone above the age of 60. The right side of the map is a wasteland. And, now that 15 people just got out, we have to tear down 15 cubes. There's no way they're gonna vote for another challenge tomorrow. Look at how many people have gotten out. Every single one of these
Xs used to be a person. - There was a human right here. - There is no one around me. - I'm the youngest one here. - If I leave, I leave on a challenge. I'm not leaving walking out. - I have not come this far to give up. - I'm gonna let you guys say
your votes over the microphone. Do you want a challenge? - Absolutely. - Yes or no? - Yes.
- Yes. - Challenge. - Yes or no? - Yes.
- We're doing a challenge. - Mic drop.
- Mic drop. - In our Squid Games video, you guys loved the marble
game, so we brought it back. Just like last time, the
contestants are playing one v. one against their neighbor. Each player's given ten marbles, and they choose what game to play. By the end of 30 minutes, only the person with 20 marbles moves on. These guys just wanted
to get in over with. - This is a $500,000 coin flip. - Oh.
- Oh. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm
so sorry, it is heads. - First to two wins, right? It's up to you guys. Oh, my God, sunk it, that's one point. Oh. If you make it into any
bucket, you win right here. - Let's go. - Oh, my God, he won it. - I'm sorry, buddy. - All good, all good. - Count 'em up. Make sure you have 20. - Got ten blue, nine red. - You're missing a marble? - Can you count again? - 19, you are one short. - I'm not holding onto any. - Interesting. There's only seven minutes left, so if you care for this
man, you should find it. - Where is it? - You're currently at 18 marbles. And you're at two marbles. - I'm leaving this in your hands. - It's okay. - I'm so sorry. Oh, good. - Whoa. There might be a comeback. - It might be. - I found it. - Really? - Yeah.
- Oh, really? - It was in my bed sheet. - He has one more marble. If you win with that one
marble, that'd be crazy. I thought that was in. - That's it.
- Oh. - I can officially step out now. Oh, that feels so bad. - This keeps going back and forth. Rock, paper, scissors, shoot. Rock, paper, scissors, shoot. Rock, paper, scissors. Hey, remember, you said we'd both go home, so one of us is gonna have
to decide a different game. - Rock, paper, scissors for
half a minute is bad too. - Okay, this is for all the marbles. We're gonna do all or nothing. Does that sound fair? - This is for all the marbles?
- Yeah. - But you have 14 marbles and he has six. Why are you gambling? - All or nothing, a minute and a half. - Hurry up. - Rock, paper, scissors, turn! - I got 'em all. - 54 escaped elimination again. 30 seconds remain. - Okay, we're done to the last two. It was the same position as
this only a couple minutes ago. - And, the thing is, a
minute ago it was me. - Is there anything you wanna
say to each other before this? - I love you.
- I love you too. Let's just do this, right? - It's okay, congratulations. Can I hug her?
- Yeah. - I lost to an amazing person. - It was rough. - The only people left are 23, 40, 43, 52, and 54. - Look at the graveyard of Xs. These were all cubes
like mine at the start. I'd be lying if I said I wasn't nervous. - Things have been getting
a little more intense. - Today is my daughter's birthday. It's just hitting home now
that I'm not gonna be there. - Can you all hear me? - Yes. - When we started, there was a 100 of you, and now we're down to five. Do you wanna reduce it even
further with a challenge? - Yes! - All right, but you guys chose this. In this challenge, the 95 contestants who have already left will vote. And the three of you with
the most votes are gone. - Wow. - I'm definitely worried
about this challenge. - Certain people here have kind of brushed people the wrong way. - You have no idea what
people think of you. - At this point, I'm rather glad that I didn't really make any enemies. - Do you think the people
that lost liked you? - For the most part. - Are you willing to bet
half a million dollars that they liked you? - I don't know about that one. - Do you think the people that
were eliminated liked you? - No.
- What's not to like? - Let's find out. We literally asked every single one of the
95 eliminated people who they want gone. - Heart's about to jump outta my throat. - How many votes does it say you got, Joe? - Ten. - Which is not enough to be eliminated! He's one of the two that passed. Which means only one of
these four cubes remains. So, I'm bad with this stuff, do you wanna, you wanna handle it?
You got it. - 23.
- Yes? - You were, in fact, eliminated. - No. To lose it in top five, when I've come as far, was super painful. - I really didn't expect 23 to go. - And, now, only one
of these three remain. Do you think it's you? - I hope so. - That didn't sound confident. You received 15 votes. - Oh. - Oh, this is brutal. - Love you, Chris. - I'm not gonna lie, losing
out on that was crushing. After spending, roughly, seven days here, and getting that close
to that grand prize, and not getting it, it hurts. - And, now, the two of you. All right, we'll come over here. - This is tense. Very tense. - 54. - I got the most votes, I know. - Wait, how'd you know that? - I don't trust the
man over there, at all. - You're done, big boy, done. - I just know. - Yeah, you did.
You got 37 votes. - So, I'm in?
- Which means, 52, you passed! - I'm in! This was a once in a lifetime chance. - I've got a 50% chance at
winning half a million dollars. - As a reward for making
it to the final two, I have one last surprise for you. What do you think it is? - Oh, I have no idea. - What is this right here? - That's for my daughter. - Today's her birthday? Well, let's see what comes
through the curtains. - Don't do this to me. Oh, my God. - I'm not gonna let you miss her birthday. - Is that your daddy? - Regardless if you win or lose, we're proud of you, you can do this. - Good job! - This is the fam. - Hi! - I couldn't ask for anything else. That was my everything right there. - Yeah. I've got this now. - Only ages 52 and 40 remain, and they've been living in
these cubes for over a week. - Day eight. It's been a wild ride. - Here I am. I can't believe it. Every challenge I've
said, I thought I was out. I thought I was out. I made it. - It's a lot more feasible now in my mind, because it's not me
versus 98 other people. It's me versus one person. - All these Xs were
cubes with people in 'em, and everybody's gone now,
and it's just Joe and I. - Another day here is not
gonna make somebody quit. To come down to something actually forcing one of us to leave. - I give them a chance to say no to a challenge, but- - Oh, my, what should we do? - I can't believe they chose a challenge. They are taking a half
a million dollar gamble. Inside one of these briefcases, is the check for $500,000. And everyone on set is blindfolded, including the cameramen,
while I mix up the cases. I promise this will make
sense in just a minute. The briefcases are now mixed. And, because you guys chose a challenge, you can step outta your
cubes and meet in the middle. Half a million dollars is
about to go to 52 or 40. I'm going to flip a coin to decide who gets to look inside
of their briefcase, making them the only person on set that knows where the money is. - It's a game of bluffery. - That's right, because, then, it's up to the other person to choose which briefcase they want to take home. Heads or tails? - Heads. - Tails. Whenever you're ready,
look inside your briefcase. I don't even want to know what's in there. I can't stand the burden. 52 now has to decide whether she's gonna keep her
briefcase or steal his. - Joe, do you have
$500,000 in your briefcase? - Yes. - Joe, are you lying? - What do you think? - Was there anything
else in the briefcase, other than the money? - I saw the Mr. Beast logo. - You saw a check in there? - Yes. - Joe, are you honest? - You spent enough time
with me, what do you think? - This is so nerve wracking. Half a million dollars on the line. Is she going to keep her
briefcase or take his? - Wow. - It's a big decision. - What do you think, as of
right now, in your head? Do you think it's in there? - I don't think it's in there. I think I have it. - I'm so nervous. - I'm, actually, my heart is beating. I'm actually feeling anxious for you guys. - And you swear that the
money is in your case? - Yes. - I don't think it's in there. I think I'm gonna pick my case. - So, you're gonna keep this? - Locked in? - All right, Joe, what
is inside your briefcase? Oh, my God! - I knew it!
- Yeah! - And you told her it was in there. - I did. - This man literally said he had it. Oh, my gosh, what a crazy play. What is wrong with you? - He told the truth, and he got it. We said all along, the good guys can win. - It pays off to be honest. Even though you didn't win, we still wanna give you $10,000, and your family a trip to Disneyland to make losing a little better. They're still gonna go. - Yay! - We took items from the set and turned them into collectible pieces that we are selling for only one penny. And you have to act quickly, because there's only a
limited amount of 'em, and they're gonna sell out fast. Click the link below and
download the Shop app right now. Subscribe and you can win
half a million dollars. Later.