You know what society is like these days. If I just come out and say, and that sound bite hits the internet, boom, can't. And with the number of people working here, that would be a pretty rough day for a lot of hardworking families. But guys, I gotta be me. And if I can't loudly proclaim that... then how could I even drag myself to the office every morning? That is where this little guy comes in. It discreetly prevents your conversations from being recorded on someone else's phone, hidden microphone, or voice recorder. And as you can tell when I say, I don't know... It even works against the professional lavalier microphone that I'm wearing. It's not perfect though, and it comes with some serious downsides. So before you trust your most intimate secrets to one of these bad boys, you should probably watch past this super edgy segue to our mother F*** sponsor. Ugreen, their Nasync DXP480T+ comes with a 12th gen Intel processor, eight gigs of expandable DDR5 memory, and dual Thunderbolt 4 ports. Plus, its onboard AI assistant makes file management a breeze. Check it out at the link down below. The marketing images for the F11 anti-voice recording, bug wiretapping, audio 37, emission hole of ultrasound, interference anti-eavesdropping spy device are a gold mine of dubious claims. The recording terminator, 37 launch heads, anti-voice recorder recording. It even claims to have anti-video recording. Ah, here, let's try it. Can you guys see me when I flick the button? Okay, well, that last one seems to be nonsense, but how does it disrupt the sound recording the way that it does? Is it just blasting out white noise so loud that you can't hear me? No, because believe it or not, when you guys are hearing that mess from the jammer, none of us in the studio are picking that up. We can all hear each other just fine. I can hear it. Okay, but you have headphones on. Let me explain. Many of you will
already know how microphones work. Here's a microphone shaped like a cookie. Good
job. But for everyone else, the TLDR is that they typically contain a thin
membrane called a diaphragm that gets vibrated by incoming sound waves. That
vibration is turned into an electrical signal, amplified, and the rest of the
details don't really matter for now. What does matter is that a microphone's response to different
frequencies of vibration is non-linear, meaning that it varies from high-pitched noises to low-pitched
noises. This weakness is what jammers like this one can take advantage of. By blasting out sound waves at frequencies that are higher than the
typical human can hear, they can shake the mic's diaphragm around like crazy in the frequencies that
we can hear and make it impossible for a hidden mic to pick up my secret confessions. We're gonna link a couple of papers in the description if you want
to get into the math for how it works. But for now, let's look at this clip that we recorded earlier with
a calibrated measurement microphone. Wow! Just from looking at the waveform it's pretty obvious where the jammer turns on and where the jammer
turns off. But what's happening at the different frequencies? This right here is a spectrogram and it visually represents the intensity of sound waves in each frequency from zero Hertz at the bottom, all the way up to 90 plus kilohertz up top. The brighter the display, the more intense the sound waves are at that frequency. Let's blow this up though and take a closer look. We mere humans can typically only hear sounds in about this range right here, from zero to 20 kilohertz or 20,000 hertz. Of course, that's when we're young and it tends to narrow as we age, especially at the high end. But as you can see over here, that's not really that big of a deal given how much of human speech takes place within that range. Of course, once the jammer kicks in, you wouldn't have any chance of making out any sounds with this level of intensity with all of this noise. This still doesn't tell us the whole story though. And hence, let's zoom in on just a second or two of our jam section here. You can see right here is where our jammer turns on. All of the high intensity sounds are being generated above that range of human hearing. But by choosing specific intervals, they're able to induce vibrations that spread to cover the entire spectrum. And you can see that once you've got this much noise, it's basically
impossible to make out regular human speech. And it's not just our crappy meat ears that are defeated by this.
Check this out. I've got a speech-to-text app on this phone and with the jammer
turned off, the app does a pretty respectable job of transcribing what I'm
saying. But as soon as we turn the jammer on... And the AI would have no idea that I just confessed one of my deepest, darkest secrets. So that's it then. Video over, everyone go buy one of these. See you later. No, not quite. You see, the advertising heavily features corporate boardroom type use cases for it. So to validate that, we set up our jammer in our meeting room and ran a few experiments. Starting with probably the least realistic scenario, where our recorder here isn't trying to hide what he's doing, the jammer works admirably. But that's not a huge surprise. Even AliExpress specials like this one rarely completely don't work at all. What was a surprise though, was that we almost exploded Elijah's head the first time that we turned it on and he didn't have any hearing protection. Ok. Its really agressive.
As it turns out, just because most mere mortals can't hear what's
coming out of the jammer, some can, and some especially can. For this reason, while devices
like this are legal here, as far as we can tell, we have no data whatsoever on the long-term
health and safety effects of using a device like this, and their use could be either dangerous, or restricted by your local government. So your mileage may vary.
On that note, let's turn our attention to a more realistic scenario where at
least one of us, Colin, at least one of us is trying to hide what we're doing. Our spy now has his device on his lap under the table. And since we
don't trust each other, I probably don't want him to know that I have this jammer. So I've
hidden it next to this potted plant. What, it's a common plant, the cactuar. I just activate all three switches, so we're blasting out in all directions, and then I can say. Regardless of the hiding spot, the result ended up being about the same. There's enough noise bouncing around in the room to mess up the recording. However, if our target is sensitive to high-pitched noises, like the whine of an old tube TV, they're likely to know that something is amiss, and if our spy tries to get even a little bit sneakier by tucking their
recording device under their clothing, especially under a couple of layers of
clothing, well, watch this, guys. I'm about to reveal that Nate kills
Dumbledore! And there's nothing anyone can do to prevent me from being an
a**hole. Any questions, Colin? Sure. The point is, it turns out that, again, regardless of the relative positions of our recording device and our jammer, a couple layers of cloth are so effective at blocking these super high frequency noises that they do a remarkable job of reducing its effectiveness. Which got us thinking, up until this point, all the mics we've tried have been tiny, either literally tiny. Like these MEMS, or Micro Electro Mechanical Systems Microphones,
like you would find in a phone, a voice recorder, or a smart home hub. Or figuratively tiny, like the small diaphragm condenser that you
would find in the measurement mic, or my lavalier. These two types work a little bit differently from each other, but
what they both have in common is tiny, thin diaphragms that are easily bounced
about in the ultrasonic storm that's created by the jammer. But of course, there's a lot of other types of microphones. So we rounded up a bunch of examples, laid them out and managed the cables with our new magnetic cable management from lttstore.com. Each mic was tested at the same distance with the mic pointing straight at the business end of the jammer. And what we found was that it was quite effective against most of the MEMS mics and small condensers, even including our shotgun microphone, not. Every mic was defeated, however, and our first surprise was the
Sanken Koss 11-D, which is actually the lav mic that I normally wear. As it turns out, its diaphragm is rotated 90 degrees inside its
tiny cylindrical housing. So even head-on, the sound waves from the jammer weren't actually
hitting the diaphragm in a direct path, which significantly reduces the jamming effect. If we
check out the spectrogram, there's none of those zigzaggy lines that we saw before at all. Another one that was interesting was the Zoom H1N recorder that uses two small microphones in an XY configuration. And we found that while both did experience significant jamming, the one that wasn't pointed directly at the jammer picked up the voice quite well, which prompted us then to test all of our mics, either 45 or 90 degrees off of the source of the interference. In addition to our head-on tests. So our final standout then after those tests ended up being the MKH416 shotgun from Sennheiser. Not only did it handle the 45 and 90 degree tests like a champ, but with the jammer half a meter away, blasting down the barrel, it was jammed. And then as soon as we pulled back to a meter, it was like the jammer wasn't even there. Looking at the spectrogram, we can see it is picking up what the jammer is throwing down. But it's not having a significant effect on the diaphragm at other
frequencies. We think there's a combination of factors that are likely
contributing to this. While the shotgun still has a relatively light diaphragm, if I were
to compare it to a dynamic stage mic, for example, it's still larger and heavier
than the other small condensers that we tried, making it a little harder for the jammer to abuse,
especially as the mic gets farther from the source. Also, the element is tucked away deep inside the mic behind this section called the interference
tube, which basically makes the mic more directional, especially as the frequency gets higher. The
result is that less of those super high frequency waves from the jammer are going to bounce all
the way down the tube and mix together to mess with our recording. But as good as it is,
it was no match for larger diaphragm condensers or dynamic microphones like the
venerable Shure SM58 or our broadcast quality RE20s from The WAN Show. So in conclusion, yeah, it works, but it's not the silver bullet that the advertising would have you believe. Pretty typical AliExpress. Against a casual attempt to record a conversation, it's surprisingly effective, but it should be noted that it makes a pretty unsettling noise that kind of feels like pressure on more sensitive ears and also realistically. A ne'er-do-well could easily hide a heavy diaphragm mic up in the
ceiling over the conference table and catch me off guard that way. Then again, if they've got that kind of access to the building, they could probably just take me out directly instead of waiting
for the pitchfork-wielding mob. So, I guess I'll just have to keep my controversial opinions about
whether Quebec should just leave the country already. Oh, damn, it was off. To myself, for a little while longer. But I'll happily tell you about our sponsor: UPDF! UPDF is a simple PDF solution with a clean UI for all your PDF
needs. It can handle PDFs across the most popular platforms, from Windows
to Mac to iOS to Android, all with one UPDF account. You can edit all elements on PDFs, like
text, images, watermarks, links, backgrounds, headers, footers, and more as
quickly as you can in a Word document, and you can even merge or split PDFs for
convenient editing. Plus, thanks to their AI features, you can summarize, translate,
explain, rewrite, and ideate your documents to get work done faster. Their OCR, or Optical Character Recognition, conveniently
transforms images into editable text, which is neat, and you get all of that and up to 100GB of
cloud storage for AI accounts across all of your devices, making UPDF a fantastic productivity
companion. So don't wait, check out UPDF using the link down below for an
exclusive discount. If you guys liked this video, maybe you'd like to see me build
custom AliExpress headphones for Dankpods. That was pretty fun.