- Building $10,000 gaming rigs is nothing unusual around here. What is unusual is what our
client intends to do with it. That's right! We don't do many commissioned builds, but when TeraBrite reached out, telling me that they needed an absolute, zero-compromises, top-of-the-line machine, for Roblox, I was intrigued. What could...
(Jake laughs) Really?
- Yeah. - Roblox?
- Well, amongst other things. - I sure hope they used Honey
while they were shopping. Honey is the free-to-use tool that helps search for the best promo codes on tons of your favorite sites. Get it today at joinhoney.com/LTT. (upbeat music) Jokes aside, while this machine will almost certainly be used for playing Roblox at
some point or another, it is for stuff other than that as well. The team over at TeraBrite
is going to be using it for video editing, After Effects work... Basically, this is gonna be their primary bonkers workstation, and they want it to be
able to do anything, spare no expense. And we certainly didn't,
starting with the motherboard. The ROG Zenith II Extreme Alpha is as top-of-the-line as it gets. Full support for, I think
it's up to, what is it? Like five M.2 SSDs or
something ridiculous like that? Eight sticks of memory,
so up to 256 gigs of RAM. And, of course, our 64-core
Ryzen Threadripper 3990X. Guys, this is a CPU that
is so far over the top that even around here, where we build up and
tear down crazy machines for your entertainment
all the freakin' time, we basically did our review of this thing, Jake put it in his test bench, and then it was never touched again. Why? Because nobody ever asked him for it back, because it just kinda
doesn't make any sense. - [Brandon] How much is that motherboard? - [Linus] This is 900 U.S. dollars. - [Brandon] What? - Well, remember, if
you've got a $4,000 CPU, is it really that crazy? - How much do you think the RAM costs? - [Brandon] Don't know. Two grand. - Actually, no, but it's a grand total, because we've got 128 gigs of 3600MHz CL18 memory. Now, CL18, that don't sound
very impressive at all, but you gotta remember, guys,
these are high-capacity DIMMs. Dang! And, of course, they're Trident Z Neo, so they got that RGB. The funny thing about this
is it's not like I don't work with crazy top-tier hardware
like this all the time. It's just that, under
normal circumstances, I would be putting it together into a rig, and then as soon as the video's over, carefully taking it apart again so that we can use it for another project, because this stuff doesn't grow on trees. Someone is actually going
to daily drive this thing. You know? I love it. It's fun. We should do
more commissioned builds. Any oil princes out there want
me to build them a computer? Okay, Brandon, how much... Actually, you know what,
I'm not gonna harp on it. We already showed the
prices at the beginning and it's kind of a recurring theme. Between the two of them, these
Samsung 980 PRO 2TB drives are gonna run ya around 800 U.S. dollars. Now, these aren't top-capacity drives. You can get Sabrent Rocket Qs
that are up to 8TB per M.2. But when it comes to performance, these are the big-donger top dog, with a full Gen 4x4 PCI Express link and capability of reading and
writing at something stupid, like up to 7GB a second or whatever. Well, well beyond what anyone could need out of a single drive for almost anything, and, you know, we got
a casual two of them. Now, we won't be setting them up in RAID or anything like that, because even just one
of them is, like I said, as fast as you could possibly need. But they wanted more capacity,
and now they have it. And they could put up to
another three of them in there. Look at this. The board
has an M.2 on the back. They couldn't cram enough
of them on the front. Because Ryzen Threadripper
has so many PCI Express lanes, there's no real benefit or drawback to any of the different M.2 slots, other than that I wanted to
install the drives in these ones because once a graphics
card and capture card and anything else are
installed in these slots, these are gonna be the most
difficult ones to get at. So if the TeraBrite team wants to add more storage down the line, leaving the DIMM.2 slots, which are nice and easy to get at... Wait, well, the one on
the back of the board isn't gonna be easy to get at. Well, whatever. They're in here now. They can install two additional ones then. (laughs) Did not think that through. Now wait a minute, the case is different, but did they base this
machine on our editing rigs? - [Jake] I just wanted to embarrass you and make theirs better. - Oh, I'm okay with theirs being better. I can't afford $4,000 processors
for all of our editors. We went with 24-core, not 64-core. Oh, also we're using a different case, although if this case had been out when we standardized our builds, I think we might've gone with this one. The 5000X from Corsair is just
so freakin' easy to build in. It looks great. It's a reasonable price. I can't say enough good
things about this case. It also has really solid
thermal characteristics, even though it has glass
panels on the front and top. You can see Corsair built in extremely large spaces for airflow, so that's really key. And then, (clears throat)
if I'm being honest, the big feature for me is
this cables-no-more door, so I don't really have to
do the most amazing job of cable managing it. (Linus cackles) Oh yeah, and there's included
RGB for fans and stuff. RGB lighting aside, choosing
a cooler for Threadripper is a little bit more complicated than choosing a cooler for some other CPU because of the size of the chip. The size of the copper cold plate on the bottom of this cooler isn't even as big as the Threadripper CPU. Of course, you don't actually need to cover the entire heat spreader here with a cooling element, as long as you've got contact with the part of the heat spreader that has the dies underneath it. And Corsair does list this
particular unit as compatible. So if we fire this thing
up and the temps suck, then I guess they're going
to get a nasty phone call. When it comes to radiator mounting, there are two major considerations. Number one is longevity. So you don't want to put
your pump in a position where it has to pull water up and can potentially get
air bubbles stuck in it. Number two is cleaning, and this is a big one for me. The fastest, easiest
way for me to mount this would be to go like so and
put it in there like that. But unfortunately, even though there's a
filtered air intake over here, we are gonna end up with
an absolute nightmare of dust and cat hair buildup over here, and the only way to clean it off is gonna be to completely pull this off, pull all the fans off, get it all (huffs and puffs) blown out, and then completely reinstall the thing. That sucks. So what we're going to do instead is we're gonna pull all these off, put them on the back, and
suck air through this way. That way it's just a
matter of going like this, and it's clean.
- Put it on the top. - You want me to put it on the top? Okay. Putting it on the
top is another option. We could just go like that. - [Jake] 'Cause otherwise
you don't have the RGB on the front of the case.
- Fine! You already won. You won the battle. But the war is not over yet. Okay, here we go. I got all the fans held in place. The trick is to get everything to stay where it's supposed to be and then start screwing it in. (Linus grunts) Oh, crap. Oh, crap. Um... No, no, I got this. Why does anyone commission builds with us? Okay. I think it's in enough. There we go, not bad. Now we just gotta... (clears throat) Hope that this reaches... Yeah, that should reach
the CPU. Should be fine. Motherboard goes in then. And a one, and a two, and a hooah! Nah, we'll go slow. This is one of those sort-of
EATX, but not actually EATX, wider-than-standard motherboards, so hopefully we're not gonna... Yeah, we gotta pull out the
cable management doodad. Aw, bummer. (case clunks)
Oi! Well, I found one screw. Okay, we got the... We got it out! - [Jake] It only got bent a little bit. - [Linus] It's a little bent. - [Jake] But I can fix that. - [Linus] Thanks, Jake. Good work. The radiator was interfering
with taking it out. There's an extra standoff
preinstalled in this case, because one, two, three,
four, five, six, seven, eight mounting holes. The ninth is actually covered up by the chonktastic 16-phase
VRM on this motherboard, so we gotta go ahead
and remove this standoff before it shorts out
the back of the board. There we go. Let's try
this again, shall we? Man, this is gonna be a
si-ack lookin' machine. I've never mounted a Corsair
AIO on Threadripper before, but it's actually super easy. You just take the two-sided standoffs and then change out the bracket and throw your thumb nuts on, boom. It's a hard mount. Okay. There we go. Not bad. Strictly speaking, we don't
need a 1,300W power supply with 80 PLUS Platinum efficiency. Oh, I'm sorry. Did you think I
was gonna say something else? - [Jake] This guy thinks
he's funny or something. - I am funny. At least three people on the
internet think I'm funny. Sound off in the comments. And go buy something at LTTStore.com. Corsair includes both a fan hub and an RGB hub with this case, but this cooler uses this
connector that goes into... ♪ Do do do do do do ♪ This Commander RGB and fan hub. So we're gonna have dual
fan and RGB hubs, I guess. One of the keys when you're using any kind of software fan or RGB control is making sure that everything is wired up in the right order. So we're going one, two,
three, four, five, six. That way if we set up any lighting effects or anything that are supposed
to go from fan to fan, they'll all run correctly. And then the actually
cable management of it is sort of a secondary concern, because we got the cable hider. That is a nice little touch. Corsair includes a second
plate for the CPU block that I think looks way
better with our RAM. Leading us, finally, to GPU time. Oh yeah, we (clears throat) chucked in the extra fans that we had. They have kind of a different RGB layout, so I don't know how good it's gonna look, but I figured more RGB is more better. For our GPU, it's an ROG Strix RTX 3090. It's got a triple-slot frickin'
cooler. 24 gigs of RAM. This is the fastest GPU money can buy. These things go for, what,
like 3,500 U.S. dollars? Do not pay that much for one, even if it's a money-printing machine 'cause you mine crypto
or whatever, please, no. Do we have any LTT cables
ties that we can give them? - I think David does.
- David is on the job. Until we got to the graphics card, it was easy to kind of forget that this is a Roblox computer. But here we are. This is it. The Robloxinator. - Dang.
- Yeah, it looks awesome. Come on, it was totally worth putting those extra fans in back there. Jake didn't wanna bother. 'Cause we don't have the
cable-management-hider thing. I think it was necessary. Otherwise you just got this blank space. Especially 'cause the cable
management is so tight you can barely even see any of the cables. Oh, wow. Booted right up
to Windows, look at that. Now we can put our panels on. I gotta just upgrade my cable management. And A-plus. I love it! It's so little work. Just like that. Fantastic. Totally worth it. Totally worth it. I think we're gonna keep this filter off. Because these are exhaust fans anyway, so you don't really need a filter because they're constantly
blowing away any dust that would potentially settle on the case. And once you put this
piece of glass on here, I think I'd rather just
see the fans directly. (film rips) Oh, excuse me. (film rips) You guys know you want one. Just 10 grand. I'll build you one. Sorry, opened it back up. Forgot to talk about the capture card. This is an AVerMedia Live Gamer 4K. It can do up to 1080P at 240 FPS, or it can do 4K at 60 FPS. And they weren't actually sure
if they need a capture card or if they'll need one in the future, but figured given the cost of the rig, 300 bucks, throw it in there, I guess. Now, of course, we can't just send them the
computer without testing it. So we're gonna need to do some
benchmarks, starting with... Jake, I'm gonna need your help with this because, as you know, I'm
not exactly a small child. Maybe you could tell me about Roblox. - You know me, the small child. - [Linus] Yep. Yep. - To be fair, I have not
played Roblox since 2015, so... - [Linus] It's "Minecraft," but, like, for even smaller children, I think. - [Jake] No. Well, sort of. Roblox can be a lot more complicated if you actually make your
own games and (beep). But if you're just playing games, it can be for small children, yes. - [Linus] Okay, cool. - [Jake] So here, why
don't you pick a game? - [Linus] Sure! Oh, I'm super- - [Jake] Okay, when I played this game, the top game on the list would
have like 3,000 people in it, and now there's like 500,000. - [Linus] That is utterly incredible. I wanna play my "Waterpark
Tycoon." That is a toilet. - [Jake] Hold on, hold on, hold on. - [Linus] Well, then you
pick something for me. - [Jake] Well, you could
play a first-person shooter. - [Linus] Why would I play
a first-person shooter in Roblox, though?
- Because they're pretty good. - Okay, fine. Sure. Is Roblox just locked to 60 FPS? - [Jake] I think so, but
I've heard there's a program you can get that'll fix it. - It's totally a thing.
"Roblox FPS Unlocker." FPS cap, not, okay. We're running at over 200 FPS right now. Yeah, look at these GPU frame
times. 2.85 milliseconds. - [Jake] Jeez. - Okay, I'm going Team
Blue. We're going Team Blue. What is happening? - [Jake] Wow, it runs really good. - Well, yeah. - [Jake] Look on the roof,
on the roof, on the roof! Oh! Oh! - What happened to my other thing? Maybe you take whatever
gun of the person you kill. - Oh!
- Yes, you do. Okay. - [Jake] Oh, this might be Gun Game. - Okay. What the fudge is happening
right now? I don't even... I don't even understand! What was that? Okay, yeah, I could see kids having fun because they can totally just play whatever violent-ass game
they want and it's like, "Oh yeah, Mom, I'm gonna play
some Roblox or whatever." I think it's a 10. It's a 10, yeah. They should go IPO. I love it. I'm having a blast. - [Jake] Do you wanna
try a different game? - Yeah, sure. Let's try some... Pff. I'm gonna get Roblox
for my kids tomorrow. "Bitcoin Miner Beta."
You can mine Bitcoin. "Upgrade new cards,
buy new mining devices, and many others."
- What? - Are you kidding me right now? Okay, so inventory. I
just need to build... So this is a budget graphic card. Wow, this is kinda crazy. Premium coins? - [Jake] And this is how
the game maker makes money. - This game, man. So wait, hold on. You buy... You take your real money, you convert it to Roblox money, you use that Roblox money, Robux, excuse me, to mine crypto money... Which you then- - [Jake] And you can't get Robux back. - You're just dumb. You
shoulda spent your money on- - [Jake] You can buy items and stuff. - Some other investment. - Yeah.
- Wow. - [Jake] But then, the
guy who makes this game, if you buy stuff in the game, he makes that money
after there's some taxes, and then he can then exchange
that Robux back to real money. So there's big companies that
make games for this game. - Wow. All right. Well, guys, it seems to be working. Enjoy your Roblox-crushinating
machine/video workstation, and hey, thanks for shopping
at LTTGamingPCs.com. - [Jake] I'm gonna go buy
that domain right now. - Yeah, you probably should.
- LTTGamingPCs.com? - That would be best. Just
redirect it to LTTStore. And I need to redirect
the topic of this video to our sponsor! Big shout-out to Drop for
sponsoring this video. Drop and Hammer just
launched a unique keycap that will be the envy
of all of your friends. We are bringing 2017 back with a Fidget Spinner Artisan Keycap. That's right: it has a spinnable top that is shaped just like the spinners that you see on the streets, if you had a time machine. It comes in seven vibrant colors from Transparent Watermelon
to Spotted Cheetah and everything in between
watermelons and cheetahs, and it's the perfect time killer when you're staring at a loading screen or in between gaming rounds, and you've already done
all the push-ups you can do during your loading screen. Because we know that that's what... That's what gamers do. So don't wait, spin into action with your fidget spinner
keycap at the link down below. If you guys enjoyed this video, you might enjoy our last commissioned PC, the pyramid PC for dbrand that was... Boy, was it ever a lot
more work than this one. We're only doing 'em like
this from now on. (cackles)