We've all seen that listing, the no low ballers, I know what I have guy. Only what he had was a clue. Or worse, the ones who know darn well what their junk is worth, but are just hoping that you don't. And thanks to companies like Intel, there's a lot of confusion out there. By sticking with that I3, I5, I7 naming scheme for 13 years, they've created an environment where the less informed consumer doesn't know if they're getting a great deal on still good leftover stock from last year or if
they're getting swindled on a decade-old workhorse. Well our team waded through
listings from around the world and with a little help from you guys hand-picked
some of the worst offenders to give these folks a little reality check and for
each one we're gonna vote on whether we think they're a silly seller or a
slippery scammer and you guys are gonna decide if you think we're right and
you can decide if you want to listen to this message from our sponsor. Vessi, April showers are a thing of the past with Vessi's Storm
Burst Shoes. No, you can't actually control the weather when you have them on,
so we're going to... Burst your bubble, but at least your feet will stay dry. Get 15% off your first purchase at Vessi.com/LinusTechTips today. You guys ready? Yeah. I haven't seen any of these yet. Number one. What the ? Are you kidding me? $20,679.85. I thought we were supposed to guess the price. Oh yeah. No, no, you're guessing what it's actually worth. Oh, we guess what it's actually worth? This is what they're asking for. Oh, that's actually funnier. That is kind of funny. I'm going to have no idea, 'cause I don't buy PC parts. What if they Etsied here? That's a bone stock case. All they did was remove pieces. This is a handmade computer, Linus. All computers are handmade. I mean, did they solder every pin onto the... Like CPU socket? If they did, it might be worth that much.  Does it even have like the panels? I was not able to determine that actually. What GPU is that? It's not even an 80 series card? Okay, this is worth like three grand. I don't even think it's worth that. I was gonna say 2200 or 2300. All right, I'm going 2,500. HDMI and DisplayPort cable not included.  I love how that's like really important  on a $28,000 computer.Really? That's a $20,000 cable. Price is right rules. If you want. Okay. It does include windows. It also says RGB fans times four and there's clearly six of them. So I don't know what the they're talking about. I don't think it's 2K.  I think it's more than 2K,  but then you guys are both sitting right up in there.  2700. What I was able to find on this was about 1,800 bucks. I should have gone with 2K flat. 1,800. 1,800, so we all lost. You all lost. I was speaking Canadian. All right, that's fine. The next one's coming. Here we go, guys. This is the same seller. Rare find, $11,000. Does this at least include the monitor, keyboard, mouse, desk, and rent for this room? So this is the same seller.  What's the difference? Wait, this is the same computer.  No, it's not. It's rainbow now. No. It's really similar. It's very similar. This is his basic model. So this seller does like tiers of PCs. They have tiers. Do they have the tiers of anyone who buys from them? Yes. A 550 watt power supply. Also this picture is clearly misleading. That is not an RTX 3050. So basically slimy scammer. And this thing is worth like 1100. USD. $900, 902. No one else even said a number. 903. 904. Oh my God, you're all over anyway. Oh, wow. There's about 800 bucks worth of parts in there. Okay. I guess 900 with windows. Windows 11, yeah, so we're not over. So you're pretty much right on, I guess then. So what is it then? 900. So we were all over by two, three, and four dollars. So this is just his presence on Etsy there.  He has a bunch of machines, you'll see. Sweet spot. Sweat spot, actually. Sweat spot. Did you? Did you notice that those last three are all the same price, though? I did. I think it's just a clever sales tactic. I think that anyone wanting to buy a baller machine is gonna sort by highest price. They're gonna come across this. They're gonna be like, "Okay, these machines look great. "What can you do on price?" And then he might give them a real price. One of those is an i5. Yeah, I think this is just the highest price that Etsy supports or something like that. I was just gonna say. Not a single one of the pictures is accurate. I think it's just to get people to look at it and get in touch.Sort them high to low. Call it a day. Slimy scammer, 'cause I don't like that kind of stuff. Yeah, it's kinda weird.I'm actually planning a rant on WAN show for this very day, talking about Facebook marketplace pricing being free or a dollar or whatever, and that not being what is actually the case. I really don't like that. Just tell me how much the thing costs. And tell me that it's less than 1200 US dollars for an old Lenovo workstation. 64 gigs of RAM. Ooh, Quadro M series. Damn! Getting a one terabyte hard drive  in your $1,250 USD computer. That's pretty rough. 525. I was gonna say 500. You wouldn't have been able to find this stuff new,  so you found all used prices for this? The SSD is not worth anything. Hard drive's like 10 bucks. I'm just worried about that Quadro. Quadro and the RAM. I think it's gonna be the motherboard. Any piece of S*** Quadro is worth more than 20 bucks, so. What'd you say? Make your own guess. We should start writing them down, damn it. Yeah, why am I telling them what I'm guessing? Hmm. I think we should have a time limit on this too. I don't have a marker. All right. Why would you go minus one? We could get this for 560 bucks. Ow. Point for Linus. I think this is just silly person. They see Quadro and Xeon and they like think it's worth something. Ugh. 15,000. 3050? Holy crap. We all know it's a scammer already. Look at that RAM. Oh my God. They don't even have their RAM installed correctly. Dude, it's America.  Red, white, and blue. That was not my point. Also, their CPU cooler looks like it has the fan on backwards. Fourth generation i5.  Oh, it comes with the monitor.  That helps.  And the keyboard. 1080p.That monitor's curved, baby. I just don't want it. Yeah, I'm way under.  Whatever. 747, where did I put it? Well, the panels didn't look like they were on that good. Oh, too relevant.You can build this  for about $750. Oh.Yeah, let's go! I think my issue is I just wouldn't,  like, I don't want any of this. Well, it's obviously a scam. Well, the EVGA 750 watt, like, that's probably worth 90 bucks. Like, you gotta watch out for stuff like that. Selling PC 800, if you but. Before March 7th. Wait, the price goes up? That's not how computers work. It's like a Kickstarter campaign. It's Apple, that adds a grand. I always wonder about stuff like this. You have almost nothing on your desk. So that means whatever's on your desk has a high level of intent. Do you need us to see you have a lighter? That would immediately make me not buy it, by the way,  because I would assume they smoke at their desk  and you can get that like, that like... Tar.Yeah. It's very hard to clean out a computer.  No storage. 64 gigs of RAM, huh? Did I snipe Elijah again? I'm low.  Luke wins $600. No! Dang it. Hee hee. Open boxed. Buy it now for 100,000. This is just a troll.  Is this even a real computer?  It looks like it was made in a video game. Oh, it's Roblox. The Roblox logo is in the top left. Oh.Nice. Okay. Dude. One of the users submitted this to us. Oh, it's got all the specs. See, if you're gonna completely make up specs and pull them out of your ass, why do you make up a 3600? Why do you also say like 16 gigs of RAM  and then you say 32 gigs of RAM? I'm so confused. What, we're supposed to guess a price for this? No, we're not guessing that. Oh, you're just messing. Gaming PC, $800, Kalispell. This thing is beautiful. Whoa. A Maximus ROG. Oh wow, this is really old. Does not come with the monitor, mouse, or keyboard. A 960. Dose not come. Oh, dose. Make your guesses. I'm making mine. The dust is free, so don't calculate that in. 299.  Am I guessing high again? Luke, bang on, 400 bucks. Wow. Dang it! How is this worth $400 though? The motherboard. Like a motherboard from that era is worth like 30 bucks. On eBay, the best I could find was 130 bucks for that motherboard. Okay, well, there's your discrepancy right there. That's not worth a hundred and- CPU's 50 bucks. He said this whole time. Just a gosh darn second here. He said this whole time.  It's based on what he's been able to find. Based on what I can find on eBay. Hold on a second. What is this, Maximus IX? Oh, dad's mad again. People are still buying these for a hundred dollars? Get a new computer. The fact that it's- ROG does not make it worth that. I'm trying to figure out like what games could this play  that you couldn't on a modern system? Nothing. I'm adjusting my strats then. 'Cause I've been like, what would I pay for it? Drop to 2K, not budget. Everything in this PC is top of the line from case to parts. What else is there? Including mobile. Nor do I play games intense enough to truly stress this system. Never overclocked, never needed to. Getting rid of this because gaming has become a hindrance to my
success in life.  His girlfriend was like get rid of the computer.  I love how it's top of the line parts including mobo and then under
mobo  he says I don't know I'd have to unplug things to see what it is.  It's a full gaming mobo by Tuff and MSI. No. TUF is usually associated with Asus. Wait, did we decide if this guy was a scammer? The last couple we have skipped on that. I don't think either of these guys are scammers. No.No. I think they're reasonable. I don't think this guy's a scammer either. I think they're just an idiot. I don't know.  We'd have to unplug things to be able to tell. Oh. Smile. Wow.  All right, you're all over. Oh.Whoa, really? All of us? We can build this for about 1200 bucks. Really?Wow, okay. Did you include windows? 1300 bucks. I don't think he lists windows. I mean, that's fair. That's a tough one. By MSI. I was just gonna say that. You beat me to it. 2900 US dollars. 7800 X3D.  Deep cool liquid cooling with RGB fans. Did some light gaming on it. Planning to sell due to personal reasons. Girlfriend again. It's impairing his success in life. Seller rated at 2.9 stars. He's no man you can trust. I mean, based on this pricing, that checks out. 4070 Super. My brain at first was like, is this a hard drive? No, it sounds like a SATA SSD. All right, I'm ready. Everybody ready? Hold on, hold on. I gotta write, I gotta write. Oh, man. Wow, hurry up, Linus. All right, what do you got? 1,800? Whoa, where did you go? Luke, you're bang on the money, 1,500 bucks. What is wrong with you guys? What the heck? It's got RGB fans in it. Why did you think it was $1,800?  U.S., U.S., are you guys doing U.S.? I'm doing Canadian. No. Okay, that makes sense. That's my excuse. Did you include Windows? He doesn't say he has Windows. Oh, you know what?  It's so cheap because that drive is so slow. There you go.  Okay, so now we're in Spain. What the hell is Odiority? So this is a new seller selling on Facebook Marketplace  for a hundred bucks less than their retail.  So if you go to the next slide. This is a brand new computer then. This is their website, same system. So they don't want you to go to their own website? Apparently not. Warning, comes with Windows 11 Home.  And a disappointing amount of storage.  Are PC components more expensive in Spain? That doesn't matter. Park prices for North America. All right. Oh, we're all pretty close on this one. I think I'm too high. Elijah, you're pretty much running the money right now. Yeah.1,000. It's 1,000? 1,000. Only 1,000? Oh, I was gonna do 9.99. Price is right rules, you're over, but you know. Well, we'll give it to me. No, no, no, that's not a point. Still in Spain here. PC RGB Corsair, 32 gigs of RAM. i7 to 12th, generation. CPU is a 12700K. Is for gaming, yes. Or KF, sorry.  3060. Listed nine weeks ago.  So things are going great. You're flying off the shelves, guys.  Okay, we're all getting more and more reasonable.  Luke, you got the win. Yeah! Come on! Yeah! I bet it's a 1060. 1060?  How? That seems ridiculous. Scammer or silly? I don't want to complain too much  'cause I won the round.  So I kind of want us to not look into it. They're a scammer. They know what they paid for this. That's a 3060 in there. Yeah. Whoa, buddy! That looks sick. It looks sick.  This is well beyond the ability of most buyers.  Are we factoring in the build cost at all  or is it just component?  just component so but we are factoring in like water blocks and
hardline tubes as best i can see that's not how it works though a water-cooled old
card is worth less than an air-cooled old card because no one wants to integrate it with that
said it's already in a system but i would say it probably comes out as a wash whereas if
we actually go try to find pricing for this stupid block on ebay it's going to be like 80
bucks or something they got add-in ram cooling but they're not water blocks they're just like passive
heat sinks on the ram this is gonna be the top one i've decided that i'm just gonna price
things based on what i think  they're worth but whoa elijah i think you've got it here no nope it
goes to Linus because he's lower 2186. 21? oh buddy's obviously knowledgeable enough to know what
things are worth but i think that they are assigning a lot of value to the labor they clearly
got this themselves and i think that that's maybe not right but i don't think it's a scam i think they just think that the work
they put into it is worth something and it just doesn't work that way moving to la france i
don't speak french a gaming pc with an exceptional value proposition at 2500 euros it has the powerful
rtx 4070 12 gig from asus it offers performance in games unequaled guaranteed to give you an
immersive experience in ultra high quality the processor and ram assures optimal
responsiveness allowing Something to fees virtuels virtual something. I don't know the next
load that oh  Whatever I liked the lightest experience my translation pretty
good. They're pricing it at  2700 US dollars you got this Elijah  Still come back. Yeah, can you get stuff right? That would help me
a lot. I would appreciate a team. Yeah. Oh, we are Okay. Well, he's not gonna share the victory with you. Yes doesn't
want me to win. Yeah I'm ready. I made lots of assumptions this time. I don't know what
any of them were or how they affected anything  Whoa, wow, that's a pretty good spread. Yeah Winner is going to be Luke at 1100. Oh, really? Did you count for the power supply? It has to run a 4070 Jordan. Yep. I love the moment Linus wins. He's like, cool, next one.  The second anyone else wins, he's like,  did you take into account? Whoa. So this one I want to price without the water cooling  'cause I wasn't able to price that out. This is super cool. It's very cool. 4,400. Yeah, is it $4,400 cool? Okay, okay, okay, okay.  A ton of this is because it's like artistic. Yeah, a hundred percent. Just worry about the core components. So no cooling.  We're not assuming any price on the woodwork or anything like that. This guy, filthy scammer. Oh yeah, he's a filthy scammer.Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. This is super cool. Tube Paddy filled the loop with . What, everyone was thinking it. I think we're gonna have to have a float plane exclusive for this one. lg.gg/floatplane for the dirty version. Yeah, yeah. The raw version.Yeah. To get off of that topic, I'm highly insulted that this. System comes with a 250 gig SSD.  I know it also comes with another one, but still. Yeah, I gotta say, none of that is very good sounding. It also has an 8700K, eh? Well, they probably built this a long time ago and then upgraded the GPU.Upgraded the GPU. And then now that's not gonna fly anymore. So they're like, okay, screw it. Go. Without the water cooling, this is about 550 bucks. What? 550 bucks for a 3080 Ti?The 3080 Ti? 32 gigs of DDR4, a thousand watt power supply? Yeah, come on, Jordan. Now you see what I'm talking about here. Anytime Luke's right, he's all like, yeah, it seems good. And then anytime he's wrong-- Every time I've questioned it-- All of a sudden, he's all like, oh, did you consider? I missed the GPU, I apologize. You missed the GPU.You missed the GPU. So it was 500 bucks without the GPU? Without the GPU. How much is a 3080 Ti?  Okay. So I got it then.I'm getting like 600-ish. No, you'd be over, 'cause if it was 500 without it,  you'd guess 999, which means I would have it,  'cause I guess 1199. 550 plus the GPU, so 1100, 1200. It's a pretty old platform. How much did you guess? I guessed 1199. It might be him. Either way, it's not Linus. Oh, no.Yeah, he's way too high. Now, this looks like Brazil,  but it's actually South Africa. Wait, so this is just a GPU? Just a GPU.For $800? Yeah, I'm looking for used eBay pricing here. Wow. That might be before Elijah was born, even. Linus is writing a lot right now. Yeah. He's written a lot of things. Oh, you still haven't written? Oh, come on, Luke. I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done. Three, two, go. You're all high.89, oh wow, we're tied. We're all high?We're all high,  Linus is close.Even he's high? Yeah, that's 30 bucks on eBay. Whoa. I thought 89 just 'cause like people  were just gonna be out to lunch. Yeah, like that's kind of what I figured. No, 780TIs don't have driver support anymore and stuff. The market for this stuff crashed a little while back. What the hell is this? That's so many fans. Ultra 4K gaming PC, that video card looks so lonely. This is like one person living in a 20,000. square foot mansion. I'm so mad about like everything. Holy crap.This is so annoying. That's a 4090 and it still looks comically small. Look at how much intake they have.  The cable management is atrocious. Are we drawing or are we actually done? I'm drawing.I'm ready, I'm drawing. Let's go.Flip. 2,800.2,800, okay, I'm way. Oh, I went way. Freaking hot.  I saw the fans.3,500? There's 12 RGB fans in there. Yeah, Elijah, you're closest, but you're over. Oh.Linus gets it. What is it?Yay. I got to 3,320. 3,320, oh. How much are used 4090s? About two grand. Yeah, two grand.Two grand, yeah. He's probably not a scammer, it's just a bad build and. Yeah. Last one. What is happening? All the things are happening. There are rainbows. 5,500 bucks. Does he have a screen on the inside of his computer? Is that a factor?  I'm assuming no. I didn't calculate that in. Yeah, okay. Serious inquiries only. Are you guys even serious? No.The mouse is not included. Aw, that's a deal breaker for me. All right, you guys ready? All right, go. Oh, Linus is closest. Oh. But is he over? No, just about four grand.  It's not a cheap case.  The fans are expensive. There is nicer stuff overall. Yeah. The stupid little RGB strip thing is expensive. Yeah, those are like a hundred bucks. Oh, what? They're ridiculous. Are they? No way. That's like 70 on eBay.  The little screen is pretty cheap.  That's not a big deal, but. Okay, what was the final tally? I believe Linus has it by like one. What? No, there's no way, Luke won. I think the viewer won. You know who really won? Our sponsor.Our sponsor. Paperlike. While we all have our own way of taking notes, be that in a business meeting or during class, I think we can all admit that a traditional pen and paper approach just feels uniquely different. But achieving the same feeling on your trustworthy iPad can be difficult. Enter Paperlike. Paperlike 2.1 is manufactured in Switzerland and is designed to help you write and draw on your iPad. Just like how you would on paper. It uses their proprietary microbead technology called NanoDots to emulate the stroke resistance of paper without sacrificing screen clarity. And Paperlike is so confident in their screen protector, they offer your 100-day satisfaction guarantee. Protect your new iPad with a screen protector from Paperlike using the link below. I've said it before, I'll say it again, there are some fantastic deals available on secondhand marketplaces. We didn't see any of them today, but they are out there and anyone
can take advantage if they're willing to do a little bit of research. It can be as simple as punching part numbers into eBay and looking
at the prices that come up or maybe just Googling to see who was president when that CPU was made. If none
of that floats your boat though, maybe you'd rather check out the links to maybe we'll just have
like a couple decent rigs linked in the video. Sure. Yeah, people can put those together if they want.