(Brady: When you think about the constraints on a sudoku 
grid, and I- obviously there's the famous one, you've)   (got to have 1 to 9 in these rows, columns. 
But this is another constraint on a sudoku. It's)   (amazing that so many are possible, it's amazing 
they can make so many different ones.)
- Oh yeah   the the world of sudoku um it's almost a sort of 
bottomless pit. We've just done the Phistomafel   ring and we saw how sets of different digits can 
be important. I'm going to show you something mad   now which is where sudoku constructors have taken 
this sort of thinking. I don't know if you can see   this this grid here, but there's a few things 
to know about the the rules of sudoku as they   apply in this grid. So you can see there are 
some cages in the grid; so the digits in this   cage have to sum to Y to the power of 2, the 
digits in this cage have to sum to X to the power 2. And the only other thing you really need to 
know is that these- see these arrows with circles?  The digits along the arrow have to sum up to 
the digit in the circle. So if this was a 1 and   this was a 2, this would be equal to 3. This 
puzzle involved trying to work out what X and Y   were; and using the Phistomafel ring and the ideas 
of set theory you can work it out. And that's what   I'll try and show you now. 
- (It also has to obey 
the normal sudoku rules of the columns, the rows)   (and the squares?)
- Yes it does, it does indeed. Let me 
start: so this time we're going to highlight the   first four rows of the grid using the red pen. And 
again we know that the the red cells are four sets   of the digits 1 to 9 altogether. And now our green 
cells this time are not going to be quite the   same. So we- I'm going to highlight five complete 
columns. So in this instance we've got four sets   of the digits 1 to 9 in the red cells, and five sets 
of the digits 1 to 9 in the green columns. And we   can see if we look carefully again - let's use my 
blue pen - this portion of the grid has two colours   in every cell. So we can remove all of these from 
both sets and we know that the difference between   the red set of tiles and the green set of tiles 
is still one set of the digits 1 to 9; because we   had four sets versus five sets, we've removed the 
same thing from both, so the difference is still   one set of the digits 1 to 9. I want to imagine 
the we remove this box 1, this box here, from   the red set. So now what's the difference between 
the red tiles we've got remaining and the green   tiles we've got remaining is now two sets of the 
digits 1 to 9. So we're going into mad mad lands   now. But we can actually use this to solve this 
puzzle; because what we've got remaining in red is   just this cage which we know sums to Y to the power of 2. And what we've got left in the bottom of the   grid is all all of those squares. So it's all of 
these squares versus this cage, the difference is   two sets of the digits 1 to 9. And this is where 
constructors get even more crazy, because they   say okay well what would happen if we equalised 
those differences? So what we could do is add the   whole of column 9 into red. And what we could do is 
add the whole of row 9 into red. And if we did   that - this cell is obviously twice in red now this 
cell here - but if we do that red and green are now   equivalent again, because we've added one complete 
set- one more complete set of red into into the   red set and another complete row of the sudoku 
that's another complete set of the digits 1 to 9   into the red set. So at the moment the red and the 
green are now equivalent. And now you can play some   games to isolate this cage, which I- hopefully you 
can see is X to the power of 2. And the way that you   do that is you take out, just as we did before, you 
take out the cells from both that are common   which is this one, this one, this one, this one, this 
one, this one, this one, and this one. And if you look   very carefully now you can see that these arrows 
which have to add up to the same number, these two   digits here sum up to the same as a digit in the 
green set. So if we were to take these two digits   out of red and take this digit out of green, the 
sets still should sum to the same number. We can   take these two out and knock this one out. And 
look at the what we're left in the corner, we've   got this cell here which was twice in red and 
once in green; so if we cancel that once from   red and once from green we end up with it being 
once in red. And it cancels out with its arrow   here like that, and we now have an equation where 
we have proved that what is left in red is exactly   equal to what is left in green. And this is the 
difference of squares, because you can see that   x^2 is equal to y^2 + x + y from these cages. 
And that allows you if- you you can solve that equation and you'll find out that X and Y differ 
by exactly 1 and that allows you to solve the   puzzle. 
- (Simple)
- Not simple, but actually 
once you start to understand Phistomafel - achievable and quite magical. And the thing I 
really love about this puzzle is the puzzle   title was 'difference of squares' and it results 
in a mathematical difference of squares being   the equation but that equation is derived from 
what we did at the start, which was to find the   different- the geometric difference of squares 
in the grid. So sort of the title is hinting at   the geometry and hinting at the maths involved. 
It's really beautiful.
- (Simon, did the person who)   (set this puzzle realise this was the way it 
could be solved? Or was there other- other ways to do it?) Yeah this was set by mathguy_12 uh who 
is a mathematician. I think they're doing   a PhD in number theory and they wanted to set 
a puzzle that could explain to a layman about   the difference of squares. And they achieved it in 
this sort of magic magical way. It's the first   puzzle I believe they've ever set, so it's it's 
quite an incredible debut. 
- (You couldn't- but you)   (couldn't solve this like people on the train 
by putting - does a 1 work there? Does a 2-) No. I invite you to try. I think- I 
don't think you could get through it. You maybe   if you gave yourself a hundred years and you guessed a lot you could do it by iteration but it wouldn't be fun. If you haven't already seen 
it, I'll include a link below to our video with   Simon about the mysterious Phistomafel ring. There'll 
also be links to Simon and his mate Mark's   ...take all the possible sudoku grids and 
check all of them for 16 clue starting   positions; and to check if they give you 
a unique answer. That's that's one way to   do it, it's a brute force way to do it. How many 
ways are there to pick 16 clues from my sudoku grid?