Today I am going to tell you about the 
parallel postulate in geometry. Well let   me start by telling you what it is, right? So this 
originally appears in Euclid's Elements - it's, I   think, published 300 BC. It's what we inherited 
as geometry, right, and it was in fact for a very   long time, especially in the 19th century, taken to 
be the example of what it means to know something,   right. We like it because it's deductive - you 
know, you have a set of rules, and then from   those rules you derive some truths. So what is 
the parallel postulate? And this is something   that we actually learn in high school geometry. 
If we are given a line in our plane now, here we   have a point P, a point that is not in the line. Then 
what we can do is we can we can draw many lines   that go through that point P but what Euclid told 
us, and that was the parallel postulate, is that   there's a unique line that does not intersect L 
and goes through the point P. 
- (Brady: One and only one.) One and only one. That is that is the key here, one 
and only one. There exists one and it is unique.   And that's what we took to be true. 
- (That seems to me like the most obvious thing in the world.) (Because if I draw any other line it's 
got that slight angle which means it's going)   (to be- one side of it is going to be tipping towards L.)
- Right right right. And in fact, you know, like-  so this is a little bit of a lie because if you 
open Euclid's Element you're not going to find   this statement the way it is written. So in fact 
the way he wrote it is more similar to what you   were saying; what he said is, you know, if you have 
a line and then you have the point P you draw your   line through P then - let me draw just any other 
line through P to help. What he said is if   the sum of these two angles is less than 180 
degrees then the lines, once you extend them to   infinity, they're going to intersect. 
- (Right, classic Euclid, parallel postulate- seems true to me.)
- Yes exactly   exactly and it- well in fact it seems true to you 
and to most of us because it is actually true. But   it sort of depends on the model of geometry that 
we're considering, right? So here we're working on   a plane and to do geometry we need among many 
other things a way of measuring distance. And, you   know, like if we're here in the plane we measure 
distances with a ruler. Or if you want, you know,   like there's a formula if you have coordinates -
um it's basically the Pythagorean theorem. So we have- we know what we're doing; however that is not 
the only space in which we can do geometry.  Not even 2-dimensional space, right, so the plane 
we have a vertical direction and a horizontal   direction, those are our two dimensions right? Let 
me show you another space where we can do geometry. Here's what we call a sphere, so as mathematicians 
call it S2. If you're a mathematician then you   draw R3, 3-dimensional space, and you say 
that this is the set of points that are at   distance 1 from the origin. If you're not a 
mathematician you're just looking at the shell   of a football ball. 
- (Is this a 2-dimensional space or?)
- This is a 2-dimensional space because   again we basically only have two directions 
in which to move right. So if you want we can   do it in terms of meridians and latitude, right, 
the way we do it to describe location, right. Like   if you look in Google Maps, if you want a precise 
location, you're going to get two coordinates.   Exactly that.
- (Okay so although although we think 
of balls and things as 3-dimensional objects,)   (because we're only dealing with the shell it's 
a 2-dimension?)
- Exactly yeah and that is very   important, we're not thinking about the filling.
We're- you know, we're thinking about a   little ant that is just completely flat. 
- (So what happens to the parallel postulate here?)
- Well so,   you know, here I started by telling you there's a 
line and there's a point, right? So I have to tell you the same thing here. I have to define my objects. So a line in here is 
going to be what we call a Great Circle. What is a   great circle? Take the intersection of this sphere 
with a plane that that goes through the origin - so   this is a great circle. Or, you know, the way I drew 
it here this is the equator, that's also going to   be a great circle.
- (So every line has to like- through 
the longest possible line does it? It can't be)   (just a little circle?)
- Aha! So that's- so this is key 
right? So there's a difference between what we call   a line and what we call a line segment, right. And 
actually so that line segments, that's one of the   first rules that we have in Euclidean geometry or 
in in the geometry of the plane; which is that if   I give you two points you're going to be able 
to give me a line. In our plane geometry that's   pretty easy, two points, we get a ruler, here's the 
line right. Pretty easy, we know how to do it. Here it's a   little trickier but is is not so bad. If you choose 
a point say over here, and then maybe a point over   here, then how do I find the great circle that 
goes through them, right? And and I need to find   the great circle and then only look at that little 
segment that connects them. And that's another- that   little segment. Well, we can do it um by choosing-
you know, like we can extend these points, join   them to the origin. There's a little space in 
between them, let me fill that with a plane.  That's the plane that's going to intersect my 
sphere, it's going to be something like that.   (So you're trying to find the equator basically that- 
on which both of those lines sit?)
- Exactly, exactly, except you know like it's a tilted equator right? 
Like it's not- but yes that is basically it. I could   have- I mean I could have cheated and just chosen 
two points in in the equator but. But so what I   drew here is a line, right, so the line segment. Well, 
we have two options: this very clearly short one;  but then there's another one that is longer and 
it goes around. Sometimes what we say is that a   line segment is the segment that- whose length is 
less than half of the entire circumference. That   fixes some issues.
- (So what does this mean for the parallel postulate?) 
- Excellent question. So let me do-   let me draw my sphere here again. I'm going to draw 
a line that is easier for me, again this meridian.   That's my line, so this is my line L, and then I'm 
going to get my point P. Let me choose this   point P right. So lines that go through P: there's 
this one, so here we have a problem, right we have   this intersection and this intersection. So maybe 
we need another one right? Okay so maybe maybe   we draw the line segment, or the whole line, that 
goes through P and then another point over here.   Okay, we draw it.
- (No good.)
- No good. So turns out that what happens in the 2-sphere is that there   are no parallel lines. So before we said that in 
the plane there existed one and it was unique,   so here we don't even have that first part of 
existence - we're done.
- (Okay. But I mean that's)  (not- that's not Euclid's fault. He wasn't talking about-)
- No, no no no no no no no absolutely not. It's   actually kind of interesting because there was 
a lot of research being done in in the geometry   of the sphere, or trigonometry maybe to be more 
precise, because people needed this for navigation   and for astronomy - or astrology for some people 
too. You know, like everything that had to do with   the skies was a sphere. So there was a lot of 
knowledge but somehow nobody thought that we   could think about these two spaces as similar, as 
both sharing a set of rules, right. It wasn't until   maybe later that we- in the 19th century that there 
was an upheaval in geometry when we realized that   in fact if you consider the first four postulates 
of Euclid, there are older models where you can do   geometry that holds- you know, that has those four 
rules except for that fifth one. 
- (So that- so his)   (first four rules hold up in other spaces? But this 
is the one that doesn't transfer across?)
- Yeah. It-   may- you know maybe to be precise uh it might be a 
modern restatement of his axioms or postulates.   Right, like we we had to get rigorous. The one 
model, or the one geometry, that people started to   think about to show that the parallel postulate 
was just not true in general was not spherical   geometry but hyperbolic geometry. This is going to 
be a disk, let me draw the center. And again I have   to tell you what it means to have a line. So a line, 
it's either going to be a straight line that goes   through the center or if I move a little bit away 
from the center it's going to be the segment of a   circle that is orthogonal to the boundary circle 
of the disk. So are there parallel lines, right?   Well in this case we are going to have parallel 
lines but we're going to have too many. So that's   sort of like the other problem right? Like we said: 
there exists, and is unique. We already saw a place   where they do not exist, now we have one where they 
do exist but they're not unique. So what happens   here is um- so let me say again that this is my 
line L, why not, and let's say this is my point P.   Well that's one line that goes through P, doesn't 
intersect L, great, but I can draw more. I can sort of   move my circles. I could just do many many more 
because in fact they're going to be infinitely   many. So the length here; again, you know, going back 
to this distinction between a line segment and a   line - this circle is a line. It sort of looks like 
it's like finite, right? Like here a line is like   the one that extends forever. The way we measure 
distances here is such that if you have two points   that are very close to the border, these two points 
are very very very far away from each other. Even   though you know like we're looking at it, and if we 
were using the distance measurement that we had in   in the plane, they look very close to one another; 
but the way we measure things in this new geometry   makes them be very far away. 
- (This postulate has failed us again)
- Yes exactly, except you know it   failed us um in the sense that it- it doesn't hold 
right, so that immediately means that it- it is not   a consequence of the first four rules which was 
actually a question that people had for a very   long time. Could it be derived from the first four 
postulates? And now we see that's just not the case.  (Clearly this fifth one was a bit of an add-on, it's not part of the family.)
- It's not a part of the   family no, no not exactly. And in fact- 
- (Can the- can the other four be derived from each other?)
- No, no no   no no those are sort of- you know, like the the four 
of them are the minimal set of rules that you need   um to play the game of geometry if you want. 
Yeah but, you know, like in fact in in Euclid's   Elements, if you analyze it you know like maybe in 
a philosophical or historian of science way, you   realize that Euclid waits a while before using the 
parallel postulate, right? He uses the first four   back and forth, back and forth, but the the 
fifth one he waits a little bit.
- (That was a clue.)   That's what some people think, yeah, so maybe 
he was uneasy about it a little bit.  (Does the- does this make you feel more affectionately 
towards the fifth one or less affectionate towards)   (it? Do you think of it as an ugly aberration 
or does it make you feel it's more charming?) I think it's- well I don't know if charming 
but you know like it's a lot more important, right, because it just allows us to think of 
more than one way of doing geometry in two    dimensions. That's- that's just fascinating. 
  ...the angle is less than two right angles. (It's not catchy is it?)
No, there's a lot of words, it's wordy. And   let's let's see what it means. Two straight lines 
for instance, we're going to put a third one in...