- Okay, this guy apparently just carries this fucking thing right up the ladder. Okay, here you go. - [Jake] I was expecting there
to be like a little crane truck or something.
(laughing) - Whole room water
cooling, that's old news. This video is gonna be about
whole house water cooling, but maybe not really in
the way that you'd expect. - Isn't it water heating? - Yeah, it's complicated. Basically, the contractors are
here at the house right now, installing some of the
trippiest solar panels that I have ever seen in my life. On the one side, totally
normal photo VoLTE excels. On the other side,
fittings for water pipes. That's right ladies and gentlemen, we are gonna be using these
combination solar panels to power my house and heat my pool. And we're gonna explain why that actually might not be as crazy an idea as it sounds like. Thanks to Epic Games for
sponsoring this video. It's coming, PC Building
Simulator 2 is coming, and you can wishlist it now
at the Epic Games Store. Stay tuned at the end of
this video to learn more. (upbeat music) There are a lot of reasons I
wanted solar at our new house. It's infinitely renewable, zero emissions, in BC we have net billing, which
means that any excess power I generate can be sold at the same rate that I buy it back to the grid, and it's relatively low maintenance without any moving parts. At least a normal install
without a pump would be. But here's the thing, despite
advancements in the field, most solar panels are only
between 15 and 20% efficient, with these one is from DualSun landing at around the 20% mark. For the uninitiated then, that
means that the solar panel can only convert 20% of
the incoming solar energy into electricity. Which in optimal conditions
would yield 375 Watts per panel. Multiplied by the 24 panels
we have for our installation, that is a theoretical peak
output of 9,000 Watts. - Holy(beep). - Point of clarification
though, we actually have two different kinds of panels for the install, and that was based on a
recommendation from well, DualSun, the installer and the distributor. - Yeah, the distributor. Basically, when you have
multiple banks of them, it can be pretty hard
to, A, bleed the system once you fill it, B,
drain it when you need to in the winter, because it
does go below zero here. - So on one side of the house we're gonna have regular
non-water cooled panels. - They're called the
Flash model, there you go. - And on the other side, we're gonna have their I
shouldn't say water cooled panels because it's more like the
panels serve as a water heater, but it's actually both. And we'll give you a
little bit more explanation of that once we talk about the water ones. In the meantime though, I
mean, it's a solar panel, what else can we really say? - We definitely aren't experts on solar. I know that you point the sun at it or this at the sun and
electricity comes out. - More sun more better. - Yeah, more sun, more better. They use shingle cells,
I guess that's fancy. Look, the solar installer
over there is laughing at us. He knows stuff that we don't. - Why don't we do them
a favor and carry this over to where they're actually
dragging these things up the roof. Sounds good? - Yeah, let's do it.
Ah. Oh God, wow, they're actually
heavier than I expected. That guy was just raw
dogging this by himself. - I know right? Okay, this guy apparently just
carries this fucking thing right up the ladder. Okay, here you go. - It's upside down. - Well, you wanna flip it that way? Oh yeah. - Can you just grab. - Oh, I see you take it from that side. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So you want it like that? Wow, we had it as wrong
as possible, I think Jake. What is this bloody thing way?
- Jesus. I was expecting there to be
like a little crane truck or something.
(laughing) - And they've already
taken like 15 of them up, so there's 12 on the
other side of the house that are already installed. This is great. Our intention was to show you
guys this stuff on the ground, but I think this is even better. So it's a simple aluminum
extrusion kind of frame, I actually, I wouldn't
really call it a frame 'cause it's just bars across. And then you can see they're
bolted into, ah there you go, the roof trusses below. All right, these are our
Enphase microinverters, and the reason we need
inverters is that, solar power is inherently DC. So in order for it to be used by any of the electronics
that we have in our homes, we're gonna wanna convert it to AC. So you can see these leads are gonna go into our solar panels. And these guys out here
you can see are wired from panel to panel, to panel
and are all gonna go back down to the ground to the main shutoff. We went with these micro-inverters from Enphase for a few reasons. One is the efficiency, so
by having micro-inverters on each panel apparently
it's better for efficiency and it also means that in the
event of an inverter failure, the whole system doesn't
just get taken out. Two, was that they came
strongly recommended by both our roofing company, as well as a commercial supplier
that I got in touch with. They wouldn't sell me anything
'cause I was an end user, but they were happy to
give me recommendations so shout out for HES PV,
thank you guys very much for the information. And number three, Enphase inverters apparently can communicate
to home assistant. Now, I'm not sure what
if anything I would do with that information
other than just monitoring the solar output of the array, you're never gonna wanna turn them off, so there's not really a
whole lot of home automation you'd wanna do, but being
able to at least monitor them is cool. There's one more thing
that we wanna look at here. It's the junction box or
they call it a SolarDeck. They offered to open it up, but
it's pretty straightforward. Basically, you just take all
of the output of these banks of panels, they go into here
and then they make their way, oh actually, you can see all
the grounding is connected through here as well. And then they're gonna make
their way down the house, and we'll have a look at
the shutoff down there. Another fun one, check this out. In the beginning of this video, I talked about whole house water cooling. That's what these tubes are for. These are going straight
to the mechanical room which is also the server room and they're gonna be used to
cool the entire server rack which is gonna be the vast majority of the computing power in the building. Make sure you're subscribed
so you don't miss that one. The reason I bring this up
though, is actually this. This right here is the armored power cable that is also going straight
into the mechanical room and is wired up to our shutoff. Let's go have a look. Actually, we interrupt
this look at the cutoff to bring you, they are actually
installing the panels now. So we're getting a good look
at them hooking up the DC side to the inverter, and then they've actually
got the water cooling tubing up there as well. - Stop calling it water cooling. - I don't have to stop
calling it water cooling 'cause it's kind of both. It serves two purposes,
one, is to heat up the water that presumably you will use somewhere, whether it's for hot
water out of your tap, or whether it's to dump into your pool. - Or hydraulic heating. - But the cooling serves
a purpose as well, because cooling solar panels actually increases their efficiency. - So when they rate solar panels typically it's done when the
cells are at 25 degree Celsius, which is... that's great
but your solar cells might reach degrees of like 70. - I mean they're black and
they're sitting out in the sun you do the math. - Yeah, like in LA or something like that. Here, maybe not so much, but they say that it can
increase the efficiency of the panels by five to 15% or actually not the efficiency,
the electricity output. So it's not like it's 35%, now it's like five to 15% on top of 20%. Combined with the solar energy
they pull out through heat, supposedly it's about a two
X increase of solar energy harnessed, which is pretty insane. - Yeah, I'm excited. Here we go. We actually did a pretty nice
job with the install here. Armored cable running
down from the junction box into this guy right here,
which presumably I can open, it wouldn't be powered yet. There you go, couple of 20 amp breakers. So that would be the two different banks are both coming through here, and then we're gonna have a main shutoff. Ah, come on. Woo, look at that boy right there. At the beginning of the
video we showed the front of the panels, which is
the same for both models. Now that we've got it flipped around, we can see what's different
about the hybrid spring panel. So there's a couple things here. One, is that the backs of
them are actually insulated because we don't want
the heat to be dumped out into the surrounding air. We want the heat to go into the water. The second, is we've got
these tubing hookups here. - Just this one's a hookup that one's not. - Seems to be-
- Here and there. - This is kind of trippy. Is this just made out of
like plastic poster board? - It kinda looks like that. - It looks like it, just
like a corrugated... - I wonder if there's
like thermal pad in there. It doesn't really look like it. Maybe it's just like so much excess energy that it doesn't really matter. - So basically it goes in
here, spreads all out here, comes across the panel,
and then this is blocked off, and it comes out this
side and ah, here we go. These guys right here, which
seem to be just protectors. - Woo. - Just a cab, yeah. Pretty lubed, get some
more rings in there. - Lots of, lots of lube on there. And these look like some serious clicky- - Hefty boys.
- Jobbies here. I am not gonna click this all the way in because I don't know how
easy that would be to remove, but basically it clicks in a
little something like that. And the whole thing hooks
up to, well your pool, or your in floor heater, or
whatever the case may be. I was actually a little bit
worried about putting pool water through this thing, but it turns out that- - Oh, it's meant for that. - Chlorinated water is totally A, okay, but that's one of the reasons that we're gonna have to winterize it. So if we had water with antifreeze and we were using a heat
exchanger to move the heat into whatever other system, then we probably wouldn't have
to drain it for the winter, especially here where it
doesn't get that cold. - But there's some
efficiency loss doing that. - It is pretty heavy though, 27 kilos. So that's just shy of 60
pounds, about 60 pounds for our American friends. Asking about the tubing, he
says that it's a lot of stuff to fit behind the panels, so the cable and tubing
management is a bit challenging. Fortunately, the tubing is
really low profile and flexible. - He's like, yeah, sure.
(laughing) When we ordered that, did
that whole tube thing come with the panels, like pre measured? - It came here in a big roll. It wasn't cut or anything like that. Oh, so you guys had to make...
- Cut it. Oh, and then like add the connectors on? - Yeah, the plumbers did that. - Oh okay. - And they definitely did it right, right? - I'm not a plumber.
(laughing) I'm an electrician. - It's been a couple days
now and all the panels are installed, the wiring
done, the breakers flipped on. Now they haven't quite
finished the plumbing, but they're gonna do that
over the next week or so. But in the meantime, they were
able to flip the switch on so we can actually see how
much power we're making. Now, today is kinda gross. It's totally overcast so
we're not expecting a lot, but I guess we'll see. I'm gonna give Linus a call
once we go back inside. Back inside the house we can
actually see the breakers they've installed. So we've got our 240 volt, 40 amp, and then we've got the
Enphase Envoy connection. So now this is the Enphase Envoy, it's basically like a little computer that monitors all the statistics
of the microinverters, it can check the individual
panel since every panel has its own inverter, it monitors how much power
is drawn by the system or your whole house, and also how much power is generated. And you can show your
like grid independence. Now they just sent us
an invite to the app, so hopefully I log in here, we
might actually be able to see how much power we're making. Hoo, I see power. Let me call Linus.
(phone ringing) - Hey, you're on speaker. - Okay, so they set up the Enphase system so I can see how much power we're making. - Wait, we can get a readout already. - I gotta readout already. It's only been up for like 20 minutes or something like that. So guess how much power? It's complete overcast like- - Yeah, I don't know. So the absolute peak was 9,000 Watts and I know that we had
to reposition the panels, and they're not water cooled. I'm gonna say like 1500 Watts. - Right now, the latest
measurement was 1.2 kilowatts and the peak was 1.3. I think he said it updates
about every five minutes. So far we've produced one
and a half kilowatt hours of electricity and you've consumed 1.2, and it says we've actually
sold 0.5 kilowatt hours to the grid. - That's awesome. - So you've made like maybe 5
cents or something like that. - I'm completely grid independent
even on an overcast day. - Well, I mean with nothing in the- - Not at night, not at night obviously. - Nothing in the house running, but yes, it says a hundred percent
energy independence. Now in the app, there's
actually like statistics so you can see your, how much power was consumed and produced. You can see how much was imported, which is like electricity
that's coming from the grid and how much you've sold. - Man on a sunny day even
when we're running the AC, I bet it's gonna be sick. - Dude on a sunny day, you're
probably gonna be producing like four or five kilowatts. In the app, there's also like
they haven't set it up yet, but there's gonna be a
grid view where you can see all the panels, like how
they range on the roof. And then you can click
on an individual panel and see how much power it's making. So like you can see one side of the house makes more
power than the other. We'll be able to see if the
ones that are water cooled are like making more power. It's pretty fucking sick. - I love it. - So the system works. - And so does our sponsor. Thanks again Epic Games for
sponsoring today's video. Do you think you have
more tech tips than me? Well, you might be able to prove it with PC Building Simulator 2. The original has been
downloaded over 13 million times since 2017. And the game is basically what
it sounds like, building PCs but with a new career mode. So you can operate your shop
and build your business, one PC at a time by either repairing
them or getting commissions. There are a few big differences
from the original though. There's a major graphical
step up with richer details in parts and environments
and better effects like more vibrant RGB. There's also enthusiast features
such as thermal imaging, power monitoring, revamped
thermal paste, and custom VRM Ram and GPU water blocks. You can even customize
the look of your workshop. So get hyped and wishlist
the game right now on the Epic Games Store
at the link down below. If you guys enjoyed this
video, maybe go check out the smart home power
monitoring one that we did. - Yeah. - 'Cause that's kind of related. - That's gonna be relevant soon. - Yeah, we're gonna end up
using that to monitor usage- - Home system has like
a solar energy page now. - Yeah. - So maybe the Enphase will hook into that and then we'll use that
for like power draw. - From the time we've been
working on this project the technology has like caught
up to our ambitions for it. - Aside from the thermostats.