- It's finally moving day and I can't wait to bring
you guys along for the ride but there are a few problems. Number one is that
nobody told the builders, so, there's definitely
going to be some challenges moving things around. Number two, is that my wife and I got quoted $11,000 to move our furniture, even though we're staying
within the same city. Fortunately, we have a solution to that and it is our team of Linus
Media Group Logistics Avengers. (explosion)
(crowd cheering) So enthusiastic. Problem number three is that it's raining. Oh my God, is the truck open? - It's fine.
- It's fine. - It'll be fine. - I don't know what this
video's going to be about. I don't even know if
it's going to be a video but we figured the odds of
high jinks are extremely high, so, I'm very excited that you guys are going to be here with us. Just like I'm excited to
tell you about our sponsor, UGREEN. UGREEN's taking your
charging to the next level with their new Nexode 100-watt charger. It's a four-in-one charger that has three USB-C ports and a USB-A port, while still fitting in
the palm of your hand. Get yours today using the link down below. (upbeat music) This is the point where we
start unloading the vehicles, but I think before we do that, I should show you guys
what we're up against. The main contractor has told us that the upstairs bedrooms should be ready for us to move things into, which means we can assemble beds, put clothes in place, put things up on the walls. Unfortunately, A, they're not ready, and B, the rest of the
house is in such a state that we won't really be
able to stage things there. Unfortunately, we've already
secured a U-Haul for tomorrow. So one way or another, all the big stuff is
moving here this weekend. Please, whatever you do, try not to get in the way of, I believe the painters are
still here today and... - [Yvonne] Yeah, don't touch the walls, and there's lots of carpet and flooring that is not covered. Please don't step there. - Who wants to assemble theater seating? - I can do it. - Okay, Jamie. Jamie, you're up. Why don't I help you with that? - And then you're just going to abandon me to figure out the rest? (chuckling) - Well, I'm not going to, I think it happened already. - Oh my gosh. (chuckling) - Wait, wait, wait. She's not going to be here, you got to figure out the rest. You're our faithful leader. - Faithful, you say. - [Man 1] (chuckling) Faithless. - Glorious, maybe. - [Yvonne] That is a terrible idea. - Cunning! What's a terrible idea? - [Yvonne] Walking down
the stairs like that when they're not tarped. - I'm going to trip, you say. - Well, walking backwards...
- I very rarely drop myself. - [Yvonne] You're not
walking backwards anymore, it's fine then. - [Linus] Oh, I can walk
backwards (indistinct). - [Yvonne] Oh, okay, okay. Hey Emily, When you're editing this, can you put it in reverse? - [Emily] Sure. (everyone laughing) - Why don't we just go
down to the basement? That's where we should start. - Mm.
- Yeah. - To the basement. - To the basements, not backwards, please. - We should do the Batman, like. (imitates Batman transition) - We haven't shown this yet, this is our cat wall. - [Yvonne] I love it. - Isn't it amazing? It has carpet on two of the shelves. They're specifically for cats. We didn't really think
too carefully about, how the cat would get up to, she'll figure it out. - She can go from here to here. That should be no problem. - The God's honest truth, Jamie, is I have no idea which seats go where. - Cool. - And this pile is contaminated
with many other things that are nothing to do
with theater seating. Starting with the clamps! (clamp clicking) Okay, the people haven't
seen the theater room yet, in its finished state. It's basically done. Okay, so watch, watch. Motion sensor. (cheering) I love it! So excited. Couple of small changes, still. We definitely need to
put RGB bulbs in here, because, duh. We're going to put some diffusers here so that it's just a little bit dimmer. And, right, the cabinet's not done here, but that will happen, that'll come That'll come later. We could definitely put
the seats in though. Starting with this armrest. (armrest dripping in a thud) Yes! Yeah, there's lots of Valencias. They're like modular or something, so they come in... Yvonne, do you remember the seat layout? - [Yvonne] Yeah, it's supposed to be a love seat right in the front. - Love seat in the front? - Love seat, right. So that's actually a three-seater. - A love seat, right? - Yeah.
- What is a love seat, right? - It's a love seat with another seat. And then in the back- - A love seat with
another seat. So a couch. - Yes, but they call it love seat, right. - Love seat right? - To tell you where the
love seat is, I think, or the single seat. I don't know, we'll figure that out. - Should we be paying attention
to which ones we're opening, and maybe labeling them or something? - Maybe. - Wait, are these powered? - Yeah buddy. - I hate powered seats. I thought- - Well great news, you
bought a bunch of them. (others laugh) - Wait, I think Valencia
doesn't have non-powered ones, I think that's why we went with that, but they're super comfy. - Well, if we read the instructions, that would be too easy, right? - I could do that, but I think I'd be bored. - Yeah right, what is that? (Linus knocking on board) - Get it?
- Oh geez. (Linus chuckling) - Okay, so, um- - How about right here? - Yeah. (Jamie laughing) - [Yvonne] Perfect. - (clapping) All right, well, (sighing), Good work guys, I think I'm
going to take five. (chuckling) - All right, boss, okay so, that was a left. - That was a left.
- That's also a left. - It's no longer a left? - Well no, it's still a
left, it's still a left. But maybe we want to get a right? - And then we have a right.
- And then we have a, we have a- - A love right. - A side by each? - Right love.
- Yeah. - The Chesterfield? - One thing's for sure, we don't want to screw up the screen. This is our Reference 8K
NanoEdge fixed-frame screen from EluneVision. So this needs to go somewhere le-safe, maybe in the theater room. - Okay. - (groaning) Oh wow, it's a
lot heavier than I thought. - Do you want two men lift that? - Yeah, that would be great, thanks. Whoa. - WorkSafeBC, where's that? - Oh man. - All right. (box thuds) Yeah, then we just throw
it down. Okay, cool. - Does this come with-
- Carbon fiber tray. - Wait, what? It comes with a wine glass holder? Tablet holder?
- Yeah. - Hey look, it's a left. - Yeah. (chuckling) Wait, that's right.
- What? - That's good. I mean, left is good, wait, right? - What? - Now you got me, no, that's what we wanted. - Right? - We figured it out. A love seat, right, is a three-seat couch with a love seat on the right, and then an extra seat. So that's why we have
only two right sides, two middles, and three left sides. So that first couch is
actually going to be now two left armrest pieces. - Okay. I hope I don't throw
one of these over there. - What do you mean, you
hope you don't throw? Do you not control if you're
going to throw something? - Nah, you just turn your brain off. - I'm sorry, I just
have a throwing reflex. I'm just standing, and boom! It's gone. It's yoked. - [Dan] You just can't
get your brain wrong. - I'm not sure if there's anything that Dan didn't do before he worked here. - Accounting.
- Accounting? - [Dan] Yeah, I suck at that. - Okay, I mean well, that's fine. It's nothing to do with... (chuckling) - [Dan] You got people for that. - Yeah. (chuckling) But yeah, Dan's one of the reasons, actually the main reason that the "WAN Show" production
values are so much better. Between him and Bell, we've gone from pod-crap to podcast. We are going to have to have a dedicated box remover today, I think. - [Cameraman] Sergiy's job. - [Linus] Is that Sergiy's job? - [Cameraman] Yeah. - Oh, poor Serg, that's the worst job. Serg, more like seam ripper. There's some sewing jokes. - [Cameraman] What? - It's a sewing joke. - [Cameraman] I'm in stitches. (Linus laughing) - A painting of Dan's grandma. (both laughing) - [Cameraman] She's never looked so good. - My aunt- - [Cameraman] That's your aunt? - Is responsible for this, (chuckling) but no. (Jamie laughing) Yvonne wants to put it up. I had given it back to my aunt, and now it's going to be in our house. It's supposed to be for
the LAN gaming room. - Do we have to look at her while we work? - Do you have to what?
- Look at her while we work? - No, well. Auntie Connie, if you're watching, it's a beautiful painting. All these chairs presenting like that. - [Cameraman] Yeah, you like them. - It's like a different
kind of set in here. - Who wants arms with their
chairs? Who does that? - Yeah. I could be into no arms. - [Cameraman] Yeah, I like
it when they don't have arms. - Okay, well this seems
pretty straightforward. Basically, you just slide that one into this one, and that's it, it's tool-less. - That's how baby chairs are born. Is it going to be tiered lines? Like it's going to be one
rows is going to be higher than the other? - That's what we're trying to figure out. We're putting in the front, and then we're going to see how we feel about whether the back needs to be lifted up a couple inches or not. - Okay. - Is this where we need the thingy? - Well, here's the thing. - The thing goes between the thing. - Not every left and every right, (whispering) (indistinct) necessarily. - Well, this one's got the thingies. - Oh wait, but this is a left, this is wrong. We need that. - Oh right. - Oh boy.
- You got time. It's not like this is heavy or anything. - Is it? - It's not heavy, but it's awkward. - All right, good news, I'm not clear on how
these connect together. - Oh my God, you mangled it, dude. - [Jamie] Oh, I didn't
actually get that one in. - [Linus] Oh, so that's
why I wouldn't go in, it's not your fault, it's just completely like
gibbled from shipping. - [Jamie] Oh, there we go. - [Linus] Okay, yeah, that's not on you. - [Jamie] Where's the power supply? (Linus speaking indistinctly) - Where is the power supply? - Next words out of my mouth... - I thought you guys were
just setting up one of each so you could measure the riser. I didn't know you were
actually setting up. - [Cameraman] Things escalated. - One of each, what do you mean? - One of the front row and one of the back row. So you could figure out
the size of the riser. - I thought you meant one of each couch. - Nice underwear, Jamie. - [Jamie] Thank you, LTTStore.com. (group laughing) - I don't know if you can
comment on employee underwear. - Well, Jamie told me, I could say all kinds of stuff earlier. - Also, I'm right here. - So how many chairs have they done? We've got six done, and it looks like
they've barely built one. - We almost definitely put
the other top on wrong, wait, whoa, those are really stiff. Okay, hold on. I no longer know. What the heck. We need the instructions. - [Cameraman] Yeah, how about that. - [Linus] This tab here- - Already working on it. - I don't get it. - [Yvonne] There's a video. You didn't even have to read a manual. You could watched a video. - Well, we didn't, videos are hard to scrub through. How you supposed to find the good stuff? - You make videos. I know, I make videos, boy. Are you serious? - [Jamie] Do we just not give her enough? - Yvonne?
- Yeah? - Do you have any idea why there's electrical wire
coming up out of the floor? - Yeah. It's for your
second row of theater seats. It's power. - Like this? - I didn't know that they
were going to do it like this, but yes. (chuckling) - So what, what's the deal? They're just going to slap an outlet on the back of this or what? - [Yvonne] I'm not sure. (Linus sighing) - Bye. - Okay, hold on a second, boy. Hi. Sorry, we got to move this box. Watch out, Yvonne. - [Yvonne] Please don't drop that box. - Don't drop the box? Oh, sorry. Hold on. - [Boy] No don't drop- - We got to do a shake
test on the contents. Shake test. (crowd laughing) - [Man II] You got to put it upside down. - Okay, here we go. We learned the easy way to empty out the contents of a box. You just got to tip it. - [Yvonne] Oh my gosh. Okay. (crowd laughing) - That was so fun, can we do that again? - Moment of truth Sedin, will I be able to see over the row in front of me to the screen? The answer is no. - Not even a little? - Not even a little, have a seat, Jamie. What do you think? I'm getting a (yelling)
down-in-front kind of vibe. - Dan you're taller. Here, yeah you sit in front. - Oh no. I didn't even factor in horrible, tall people with
their horrible, tall heads. - (booing) You suck. (chuckling) Oh man, oh man. Okay. Can you sit at the front again? 'Cause now I got to figure out how many inches we need here. - How, how many apple boxes tall is he? - Yeah, to actually be able to comfortably see the screen with some jackass tall
person in front of me. - I mean, it looks fine from up here. I don't know what you're talking about. - I got to be here, at least. Oh, that's twelve inches of- - Do you want me to get a tape measure? - Yeah, we should get a tape measure. Sorry. I'm just checking
out the wine glass, I don't even drink wine. I care, not one bit about this, but wow, is that ever a- - [Jamie] I could have the nice
sip of Brandy after dinner. - It's crazy. - [Jamie] With your cigar. - (indistinct) Brandy and cigars. Yeah, you better believe it. - That is built. (banging glass
holder against carton box) I mean, how can you watch a film without your wine holder? - Yeah. So, if you're watching Avengers, you don't have wine 'cause that's a movie, but if you're watching something good, like artsy, that's a film,
and you have to have- - Wine.
- Yeah. - Why do I need a tablet, and why do I need it held here? Read my YouTube comments while I'm- - [Jamie] That's a big poop emoji. (Linus Laughs) - Dad, I have something
that's totally up your alley. SVS sent us a couple of their amps for in ceiling, in-home speakers. - Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, okay. - They're not the new one that is coming that we're going to set up for every room, but we have two of the old one that we can set up for now, and we were going to set
them up in the living room, and the kitchen. - Perfect. - Okay. - Does he have to always
swing the knife around, all the time? - Not always. - Okay. It's not really swinging around. Swinging would look more like, - So we've got three subwoofers. - [Linus] Wait, what is going
on with all these subwoofers. - And then there's also
another one over there. - [Linus] Wait, why are
there so many subwoofers? - So that's four. So this is your living room? - No. - Okay. This is a kitchen. - This is the kitchen/family room. And this guy, is going to go right here. There's a subwoofer cable that goes back to the mechanical room. And we'll set up the amp down there. And then the idea is that, that amp, I have no
idea how this will work, because I don't know if it does four speakers in a single zone, but the intention was for these two, and those two to be one zone just for the kitchen and the family room, and then that sub is also on that zone. - Now you're going to have these all mono, do you want a 1.1? Do you want a 4.1, a 2.1? (Yvonne speaking indistinctly) We'll worry about that later. How about that?
- Honestly? - [Dan] Yeah. - These like Klipsch speakers. Mono, stereo, they're already
going to sound so good for just ambient music while I'm cleaning the house. - Yeah. - 0.1
- But I think the mono stereo-ness of
it is utterly irrelevant. - I think that sounds good. - That's my vibe. - Well, yeah, 'cause I
mean, if you do stereo probably got phasing issues, so this sounds like a better idea anyway. - Sure. Yeah.
- Cool. - Mono-mono. - Done. ♪ Mono, mono, mono, mono. ♪ (Dan laughing) - And where are we putting this other one? - This? - The other one. You've got three. - I don't know anything about that. - So you're only supposed to have one? - Well, we're supposed to have one here, one downstairs in the basement, and I don't know anything
about the rest of it. - Okay. - Okay, so in order to really
see over him for realsies, ah, oh my God. I need to be way up here. - 12 inches. - So and that's to the- - Yeah, the cush. - Yeah. So- - We call it 13. - So I'm probably going to, man, I'm at least two inches into that. - Yeah, we'll call it 13 inches. Maybe 14. - Okay. 14 inch stage? That's going to be or- - Yeah. It's like a foot and- - That's ridiculous. - Yeah. All right, here's my idea. - Mhm.
- Rip up the carpet. - Wait, what? - We dig a hole. We put the front row in a hole. - I like it, (beep) those guys. (both laughing) (hands slapping) - This is very nice. - Oh wow, you actually don't need a ton of space between rows. - Oh,
- Well it's the feet. Put your, put yours up. - Oh, mine is not powered right now. - Oh, there goes, - Oh, there we go. - Okay. So Jamie you're
all the way back, already? - Oh yeah. - [Yvonne] How does it feel, Jamie? - I feel like I could take a nap, especially after lunch. - Hi there. - Hey, how's it going? - Yeah, so this is a bit of a problem. - A little bit. - [Yvonne] So we'll need to
move that back a little bit. - I mean, would I ever be this far back? - [Yvonne] You could be, and you do have space, it's okay to go back a little bit. - What was your question, exactly? - I don't know where the
upstairs speakers end up. - Oh, where they end up, you say? - Yes.
- I see. So that they can plug into this. - Yeah, 'cause I know the other hole has to go into there, but there's no wires. - Beautiful. Okay, one moment please. (Linus making beeping sounds) Okay. Let's go. - Dun da da dun da da! - [Dan] That's not as
bad as I was expecting. - Yeah. Oh, hey, since we're in here, I actually have gear that
I have not shown off yet. Eaton sent over this absolutely ballin'
(grunting) 240-volt UPS. I forget what the total
capacity of this bad boy is, but it's flipping ridiculous. I guess we'll have a link
down below or something. Yeah, super stoked. This basically means
everything on the server rack is going to run at 240-volt, instead of 120-volt for a better efficiency. Whoa, this is a 9PX 5000. This thing will do like 4,500 watts. We'll be able to power
all those land machines, and all that good stuff in here. - If we're doing the whole house, this is more than just two subwoofers. But I mean we got four
in the kitchen, right? - No, no, but there's lots of zones that have speakers but no subwoofer. - I got you, I got you, yeah. So we have at least five
in the kitchen alone. - Yes. - Here's another kitchen, kitchen doorbell. - That's-
- That's not a speaker. - A doorbell. That's not a speaker, yeah, that's just power, I think - Okay, so they're all together. - [Linus] Nope. I found the subwoofers. - Oh they are separated. That's quite nice actually. - [Linus] Yep, well
they're terminated RCA. So they're totally different, right? - Sure. - Here are two subwoofer connectors that are not for the formal living room, but those two do not appear to be labeled. - Okay, well we have one
that we need for downstairs, and then we have another
one for the kitchen. So I'll just plug one of them in, and it'll either explode or be fine.
- We'll see what happens. - Yeah. - Is this considered child labor? - [Cameraman] No. (Nicholas laughing) - All right. Now you got to go like this. You got to go hit it, (slapping bed frame) That's not going nowhere. (kid slapping bed frame) That's not going anywhere, right? No? Okay, fine. I try. (chuckling) - Yeah, so the first
one that we've put in, are these two speakers - Mhm, for the kitchen. - Yeah, and I just guessed, but that one is now the left speaker, and that one is the right speaker. - Right, so what you're asking is, which- - 'Cause I'm thinking
you're going to be here, watching your wall, and then we can have the
left speakers as this group, or is that one. I don't even know if these
units can be mushed together. - Yeah. Maybe we could just label them. Just a little R and L with a
pen or something like that. - Yeah. Exactly. - Okay, yeah. Hopefully
there's a mono mode, but do they work? - [Dan] They do. I guess "Crab Rave?" (upbeat music playing in the background) - These sound great. I guess that's what happens when you actually put
the boxes in, for them. Unlike what we did at our house. Nice. We got down on the WiFi with the amazing quick share network, QR code feature. Unfortunately that
doesn't get us any closer to getting a subwoofer hooked up. So we may have to put RCA cables on our Best Buy run shopping list. Google (indistinct) search. - You know what we can do just to test it. - Yeah, really? You're just going
to jam that in the thing? - Yeah. Jam it in the thing, tape it around the other side, and we'd be good to go, just to make sure it's working. - This is a cool update though. We've got our relay boards in for the da-at-da-da-dah, heating zones. So that's pretty sick. The (chuckling), the plumbers were not happy about mounting bare PCBs
to this beautifully done, otherwise work that they did, but they did it after
Jake pleaded with them, and (chuckling) we've got two
USB ports here to power them. So this will do all the upstairs zones, and then I believe this
one's only responsible for two zones, but maybe he wanted matching ones. I don't know, who can fathom why Jake
does the things he does? There'll definitely be a full
video about this coming soon, which we've been working
on for about a year, getting all the HVAC and in floor radiant heat
all smarted up together. - So we've got two of these units in now, and what I have to do is I have to get them on his home network so that we can actually
access them up from upstairs. We were using Bluetooth before
and it was really spotty, and this room's made of
concrete and machinery, so it's not really
going to work very well. What I'm hoping for is
that we can name them, and it'll all come
together and immediately. - You'll never believe what I found. - Oh, those are perfect. - Quality. I don't know why they're here. They must be from the
previous owner or something. This is all the RCA we could ever need in our lives, I think. I'm sitting here trying
to plug in this subwoofer and I've made a startling discovery. This seems to have gotten
like mangled at some point, because this does not fit in there, and that is absolutely mashed. I am pretty sure it's RCA, but it's just a broken dead RCA. That's not going to go in there at all. I'd like to make it very clear that unless you absolutely
know what you're doing, you should not be sticking screw drivers into any outlets in your walls. I did manage to confirm that it is supposed to be RCA since this does stick into the other end. So I think what we're going to do then is we're just going to
go way harder at it. Deal? Deal. (granting) Stop. (screwdriver tapping) (upbeat music playing in the background) - Oh.
- There we go. - Well, they're all working now. - You can see that our minimum, this is the volume that
we're at right now, and it's like nearly deafening. - The beds are almost done, do you want to come see? The way the top bunk goes on
the bottom bunk is ridiculous. - Like good, ridiculous? - No. (chuckling) We're going to have to find
some way to secure that. Oh yep, and that one already came out. - Oh, my corner came out too. - Your corner came out too. Yep. So apparently that's how
these bunk beds go on. They just rest on these metal things that are not that secure. (chuckling) That seems safe, right? I don't know.
- Awesome. - Have you shown how the
master's the wrong color? - No, I haven't.
- Oh. - At least with this one, I can understand what happened. We asked for Peacock Plume
from Cloverdale Paint, and they apparently found a
color called Peacock Plume at Sherwin Williams that is
a completely different color. So the paint saga continues. (chuckling) At least the en suite looks amazing. This is going to be the
best room in the house. I love this bathroom. That's where I'm going to have my baths, that's where my candles will go. I think I found a way to
fix the crooked chandelier. Eh, eh, oh! That's too much. Now it is less fixed. - [Yvonne] What happened? What is he doing? - I'm trying to fix the, you know how the chandelier was crooked? The middle thing. - [Yvonne] No, they fixed it. - Oh, well now it's worse. - Oh. Hey, Dan's taller, I think he's coming down to help you. - Whee! Oh, don't worry about any
of the foam or anything, logistics will deal with it. Is this going to fit here? Oh wait, they screwed up. This is supposed to be matte black. Interesting. - [Jamie] Yeah, right. - This may not be deep enough. - Oh, that's an issue. That's am issue.
- Yeah. 'Cause the TV is bigger than this. That's why the idea is
to paint this black. Okay that means we're stalled for today. - All right, well anyway. - We tried. - Let's star wipe 'till tomorrow. - Yeah. - Where we still won't have a mount. - No, but what we will have is this message from our sponsor. - Backblaze. Backblaze is an affordable and easy to use cloud backup solution that starts at just $7 a month. You can back up almost
anything from your PC and Mac, and access it on the go with their web and mobile apps. And if you're still stuck
in the 20th century, Backblaze, even unless you
restore your files by mail. They'll ship a hard drive with your data right to your door and you just ship it back for a refund when you're done. No word yet on carrier
pigeon support though. Backblaze manages nearly 2EB of data, and has restored over 55 billion files. So receive your fully
featured 15-day free trial with no credit card required, and try out Backblaze. Start protecting yourself
from potential bad times at the link in the
video description below, or at Backblaze.com/LTT. - If you guys enjoyed this video, man, there's so many past episodes of the new house renovation/moving that I can recommend. Why don't you go with "the WiFi Install?" That one was pretty good.