James: Another favourite squared square Well it's this one I say it's favourite because This one was actually found before the Trinity students found theirs They were scooped It was just before them And this was published first, and that's so disappointing. So, if I'm being technical this was the first squared square found. But, there's no theory behind it Brady: It was just some fluke or -- J: It was some fluke, yeah It's made out of squared rectangles It was actually those previous squared rectangles that had been found There's copies of those in there He's put them together and scaled them up and scaled them down There's no maths in that, it doesn't help you find more... It tells you no theory about it. B: It's the first though J: But it was the first. That is so annoying as well Here's one more square And this, this one I like because it's more Aesthetically pleasing Notice the squares are more 'round about the same size So instead of having a squared square were you have one tiny square, one massive square Which, a lot of them seem to look like that This one's more balanced The squares are around about the same size If they take the ratio of the biggest to the smallest This has the kindest ratio This is the more favourable ratio B: The kindest one? J: I don't know, maybe It's called a nice squared square It's the smallest ratio between the biggest and smallest B: It's like you, James, a nice square J: Yeah, I like to think so One thing that's tempting to do with these squared squares is to turn them into puzzles 'Cause you can cut them up and say can you make them into a square or something like that This is actually a rectangle This is a rectangle that I've made out of the smaller squares I must find the complete set I think some of the smaller ones are still in here B: Yeah, having missing ones is no good J: There you go So it's like a jigsaw Can you put these together like a jigsaw? And, so that's what one of the Trinity students did He actually This is the one he turned into a puzzle And he gave it to his mum And he said, "Well, I know what the solution is, but can you find it?" And so, she tried to find the solution And it turned out that she found a different solution Using the same squares B: No? J: So there are two ways To use the same squares To make a rectangle Of the same dimension as well So the same dimension And that's nice So those are called isomers So they are two rectangles, the same dimension, using the same squares But in a different order Okay I'm gonna say it This was Bill Tutte's training in maths Bill Tutte was given problems at Bletchley Park Because they knew he liked puzzles They knew was the kind of a guy who liked to do a problem [as] a puzzle And they gave him problems that they thought couldn't be solved And they thought, "Oh, we've given up on this "Here you go and do it" And so he worked away And people were kind of looking over going, "Is he actually doing anything? 'Cause he doesn't seem to be doing anything" But he was And he solved these massively important problems That helped us break codes in World War II [SUBS: Caleb Shircliff]