We looked at the auditor scissoring is an attempt to Simulate those extra gray scales. Let's keep it to a gray scales for the purpose of this video just using black and white pixels There's another approach we can take which is called error diffusion So what we do and we'll still use black and white to do this we take a picture Let's start with this one, which has got the value 128 so it's mid gray We can either say it to be white 255 or black zero so we choose the one which is closer So in this case 255 is slightly closer than zero. So we've set that to me two, five five now we can calculate The error in the value we've given it to what it should be. So this should be 128 we said it to be 255. So we've got an error of plus 127 that's how much brighter it is than what we do especially because we've got that piece. It'll be that Now what we can do is we can say let's make the pixels around it slightly darker than they should be To compensate for the fact that that one's brighter. So we've got this one pixel, which is brighter Let's make the ones around it darker And again when the eye looks a little average of axes and low-pass filter over the image and it will appear Roughly to be the right brightness all the way over it in this case We want to make it darker by quite a lot. Now. The question is where do we pass that? Error on to do we just put it onto the next pixel do we put it onto the pixel before? We put onto the pixel below it the pixels above it One of the classic approach is used is what's called? Floyd Steinberg do the ring and what you do here is you don't modify pixels that have already been set So you're scanning the image from the top left across each row from left to right? So the pixels before it you've already set and so you say ooh I'm going to take the arrow from this and I've got to put some of it into here Some of it into here some of it into here and some of it into here So let's start down here a bit. We've set this to be two five five. This is up 527 so we need to split that plus 127 and take all the ones around it down By some amount. So what the Floyd sign Burke algorithm says is into this pixel here. We'll take 7/16 of the error into this pixel here. We'll take 1/16 of the error into this pixel here. We'll take 5/16 of the area and into this one here it will take 3/16 of the error what this basically means is that this was up by 127 So, what does that the runs around it a total of 127 lower. So our error that we need to pass out is minus 127 so we take 127 divided by 16 multiplied by 7 So this Pixar we're going to bring down by minus 56 this one. We're going to bring down by 1/16 which is roughly 8 and this one is 5/16 which is going to be roughly 40 and this one's going to be 3/16 which is gonna be roughly 24 so these are all - so what we're saying? Is it for the pixels that surround this one because we were too bright by 127 levels We're going to make all the ones below it less bright by certain amounts. So let's work out what those values would be So we take 120 8 here we subtract with 56 from it which gives us the value of 72 So make this pixel to the right Be 0 but that's going to generate its own error And so we do exactly the same thing in which would generate an error, which would go here This was too dark by 72 which means we need to raise this pixel by so much which would make it white But we also need to raise this pixel this pixel Which is also that pixel and so on so we could have passed the error out amongst and if we repeat this out over the whole image we can convert a Continuous tone image here into a set of pixels that are either black or white But which are compensating for the error? And so again, we'll give the appearance of the original gray things But if you were to zoom in on this you would see that rather than having a regular pattern It would look a lot more random. You'd have sort of clusters of things actually These numbers were chosen 3/16 5/16 1/16 7/16 so that for 50% gray you do get that checkerboard pattern But for other things you get different patterns the advantage of this is that each of the dots Are a single pixel wide rather than before on the other to the west some were single pixel some got bigger some got smaller here Everything would end up as a single pixel So what we've been talking about is spatial diddly we've been taking the either the error and diffusing out over the image or Using an order thing over the image to create the dithering you can also do there in time So some of the plasma televisions and actually some LCDs as well to try and create the gray scales rather than dither Just in space. They also do that in time So what they do, is that rather than having the pixel be white all the time And they're all black all the time to create the space with the other They have it flashing very fast between the two things So it looks great because it's flashing Faster than the eye can see black then white the black then white and black the white black and white black the white Is it kind of a bit more for the history books this then? It's still you I mean printers are still black and white printers Either can put a blob of ink or they can't put a blob of ink put a blob of tone or they can't with the exception of dye sublimation ones where they can start to mix the colors together in different ratios as they're subliming the Inks and so on it's still used in television For example, the camera Shaun's using to film this I think has a 10-bit sensor But it's recording at 8 bits. And so it'll be due there in gown That's the high end bits the 9th and 10th bit down to the 8 bits to create some that you can see on YouTube and so I still use an open you'll go away At least you haven't asked me about it on it in audio We said that again and now we're going across here. He's 128 greater than hundred 28. No, so we leave that blank So now we come down on to line 2 and we do the same thing with the second line here He's 128 great at 192. No, right? Ok, believe it is 128 greater than 0 yes. Ok, so we get the program to