- Sometimes it's almost unfortunate when a brand sponsors a video,
like LG sponsored this one, because the TONE free FP8s are hands down the most comfortable
in-ear wireless earphones that I have heard yet. Not only that, but they've got
a super compact hearing case, 24 hours of battery life
with the battery included in the case. And they are super small. Look how tiny these things are. I mean, next you're gonna
tell me they've got some kind of bacteria killing light
inside that destroys bacteria on the mesh inside the ear. They got that too? Well, we're gonna have
to take a closer look at these, aren't we? (upbeat music) LG sent me a fancy package
with a few fun things inside. We've got the FP5, FP8 and
FP9 TONE free earbuds here to check out. They've all got active noise cancellation and they share the same physical design. But the FP9s have LG's new
plug and wireless feature, which is great for devices
that don't have Bluetooth or that have really janky
Bluetooth implementations, like (Linus clearing his throat) certain mobile game consoles that bug out if you try to connect Bluetooth audio and a Bluetooth controller
at the same time. So all you have to do is plug in a three and a half millimeter to USB-C cable, and then you can actually use
your case to forward the audio to the earphones. Super cool, right? That's actually great for
things like playing, treadmills, like there's any number of
things that still use the three and a half millimeter jack, but you don't necessarily wanna carry around two different pairs of headphones with you all the time. The FP9s retail at 1.99. So if you want a cheaper option, you can check out the FP5s here. You just won't get the plug in wireless or their UV nano feature. We've mentioned that
on the channel before, but now the UV light inside
the case works twice as fast, killing 99% of the
bacteria on each ear mesh within just five minutes of charging. These ones also lack wireless charging, that's available only on the FP8s. So choose wisely based on
which features you care about the most. As for which feature
I care about the most, LG apparently sent a
special version of the FP8s. These are so cool. Why are more electronics not translucent? LG, on behalf of everyone
watching this video, I'm calling upon you now to sell these. It really makes you
appreciate all the tech built into them so much better. In terms of colors, LG's
TONE free lineup is available in white. They're calling this
rose gold, that's gold. And black. They call that rose gold apparently, but I don't buy it. At this point, I've already
hit most of the talking points that LG asked for in the sponsored video. So let's focus on what really matters. Inside, you get small, medium and large medical grade ear tips. The medium ones are the right size for me. Your mileage may vary. You got a USB-C charging cable. Charging is handled by
these three metal contacts on both sides and you just pop them in, little something like that. They're magnetic, so they should snap into place pretty easily. And since you're in here, you can also see that these were developed in
collaboration with Meridian, the high-end audio
manufacturer that LG actually also sponsored a tour of their facility a couple of years ago, back when touring facilities was a thing. On the earbuds themselves is a total of three microphones per earbud. And these contribute to
a couple of features. One is apparently
exceptional call quality. So we're gonna go ahead and
record a call to Plouffe, who's sitting over there in a minute. But another one is that the FP8 support active noise cancellation, just like the top tier
competitors that LG is up against at this price point. The mics are located here,
here and right there. They've also got proximity sensors in them so they can detect if you
take them out of your ears, as well as touch sensitive
buttons right here that can be configured in LG's app to serve various functions. Hopefully the setup
procedure is pretty painless, but it should be because I
tried it once before we started and it was like (Linus snapping his fingers) super easy. Connect, prompts you to download the app, boop, touch twice end call
volume control, three times to play the next song and
long press is ambient control. Colored light indicator tells
you how much battery life is left on your case. Hey! Oh, right, that makes sense, I closed it. So it went away. I was going through the user manual, let me have my fun. Time to put these in. Let's try a couple of different EQs. I'm gonna start with natural obviously, that's usually my preference. Let's just have them be noise blocking, but not noise canceling by default. Touchpad lock. Oh, interesting. Well, how do you unlock it? No, it's just locked right now. Now it's working. So you can see, I changed
over to ambient mode there. Noise canceling mode. Huh. So you've got different
levels of noise cancellation. You know that kind of
pressure feeling on your ears when you have noise cancellation on? I mean, honestly it's not
especially noticeable to me on these anyway, but you can decide if it's over your threshold, then you can turn it down to low. Normally, noise cancellation
doesn't do a great job of things like human conversation. But. (Linus mumbling) I could hear it kind of like that. Like I could just barely
make out little bits of what Colin was saying. Game mode. Whoa, cool! Lower latency. Whispering mode. Hold the right earbud near
the mouth to speak softly on the phone. Okay, we're gonna have to try this. Okay, I'm calling you. Hello? - [Nick] Can you hear me? - Yeah, I can hear you. How am I doing? You hear me all right? - [Nick] Yeah, you're pretty clear. - Okay, let's give this
whispering mode a shot here. I have to take out the right one and. Okay, can you hear me all right? - [Nick] Yeah, you're still whispering. - Oh, interesting. I screwed this up, Andy. The microphones, I dunno,
there's four holes in the thing. So I don't know which
three are microphones. So there's the one here,
which I suspect is to listen to like what makes it past the earphones so that one's gotta be a mic. This one's gotta be a mic,
but I don't think this one is, I think it's actually just
another port for this one. Okay, what about now? Can you hear me better? - [Nick] Yeah, I can hear you whispering. It's a little better. - Okay, but the point of
this mode is supposed to be that you're in a loud
environment or a busy environment where you wanna have a quiet conversation. So what if there was some ambient noise? (Crab Rave playing on laptop) Get some Crab Rave going in here. Okay. I've got the speaker like
right near to my head. Can you still hear me all right? - [Nick] Yeah, I can still hear you. - I'm having a harder time hearing you. - [Nick] Oh, yeah. - Hold on, give me one second. I just gotta turn a thing real quick. - [Nick] Crab Rave is coming
through loud and clear. - I'm turning on my noise cancellation so I can hopefully block it better. (Crab Rave playing on laptop) Okay so, how would you describe
the audio quality out of 10? - [Nick] Uh. I'd say it's a six or a seven, but considering your whispering. - Six or seven. - [Nick] Yeah, your
whispering (indistinct). - Not bad. I mean, a six under those
circumstances is kind of a win. - [Nick] Yeah, you're clear right up when you turn Crab Rave off. - Okay, thanks Nick, that's good for now. Unfortunately it looks like whisper mode is something you have to
toggle manually right now, it's in the lab. But maybe it's something that
you can use your buttons for if you customize that. Oh, customize touchpad functions. Here we go. Cool, so touch three times. Okay, whisper mode on
and off is not a thing that you can do, but it
would be cool if you could. LG, if you guys are watching, which I know for a fact you are, it'd be super cool if you could turn things
like whisper mode on and off in here, rather than just
having a limited number of functions. They're IPX4 water resistant, (Linus clicking his tongue) not the case though. Five minutes of charging
gets you an hour of battery, but more importantly, these sound great. Let's see how easy it is to
nail those touch controls, okay? That's on and off. Responsive so far. About a third of a second delay. One of the big things for
me is I actually sleep with my earphones in, so
comfort is king for me. And you know, I've settled
in terms of audio quality in order to have something
that's really comfortable. But part of comfort is what they feel like when I'm up and about, and part
of it is what they feel like when I am lying down. Ever since I had kids, I've slept with noise canceling earphones in, or at least noise blocking earphones in. Just helps me sleep through better. So let's see. Sorry, this is just a
very important benchmark because this is what ended up
killing the Sony WF-1000 XM4 for me is that they're super comfortable under all circumstances,
but the touch sensors on them were activated
by my pillow constantly. Let me see if I can activate
a touch sensor here. This doesn't look like benchmarking,
but I assure you it is. (phone ringtone playing) Nope. Haven't managed to hit it. And how did they do for a shake test here? Let's get this pillow out
of here, lttstore.com. (rock music) (Linus' neck cracking) Oh, well, I heard my neck crack. (rock music) That's pretty good. Huh. Sorry, I'm a little. Woo, I'm fine. All right, the last thing
I'm apparently supposed to try is the immersive audio mode that they worked on with LG. I can pretty much
guarantee that I'll hate it because anything other than just the music in my ears is generally not my preference. - [Andy] You can hear me okay? - Yeah, I can now. The ambient mode sounds
really natural, actually. That's great. Like I can converse with you just fine. What about just passive noise control? - [Andy] Hi, hi Linus. - Oh, yeah, I can hear you.
- [Andy] Could you put the phone
- I can hear you reasonably well.
- [Andy] Into the center, please? - Oh, sure. I think I'd probably just leave
it on high mode, personally. Honestly, you know what? Lots of people do like playing
around with different EQs and different audio effects
and stuff like that. I don't personally find that these need any EQing out of the box. Your mileage may vary as far as that goes. But as far as the effects being applied, a good pair of your
phones won't need them, and I don't honestly
think these need them. Oh, look at that! There's a nice little custom EQ control. Love it! And natural is fine. And it's fine for this video to be over. So they're not cheap, but as
far as being feature-rich goes, there's not much else
that I'd be asking for. Thanks LG for sponsoring this
video and sending these over. That's it, bye.