- [Linus] That's quite a bit of travel. - [Jake] You're going to
need a break more than that, you're barely breaking! - [Linus] Oh, okay, I couldn't tell. (both laughing) - [Jake] Oh, the wheel is
stuck in the ground somehow. That's our shifter. That's
the steering wheel motor. These are the pedals,
that's the handbrake, this is a part of a wheel. - What do you mean a
wheel? The wheel's here. - No, well. - Why do we need four steering wheels? - Why not? And you've got your $10,000 SIM setup and you've got your $3,000 monitors. - Of course the whole thing is powered by our sponsor for the video, ORIGIN PC, who sent over this sick gaming rig. We're going to be setting
it up with an RTX 3090. I mean, you need it to
power a setup like this. This is going to be triple 4K. - It's got a 30 ATI already. - Right, so you already did a lot of
the just sort of grunt work of setting up this
extruded aluminum frame. This thing feels like a tank. - It's pretty rigid. - It's tank-like in nature. What are they? What's the
brand of these rails called? - They're made by Sparco, like they make,
- [Jake] Sparco? Wow. - they make seats. - I want to do this. What's first? Button caps and sticker set. - [Jake] Sure. - Nah, I want to put together the wheel. - [Jake] I'm just kind of worried you're going to screw that up. - I'm not going to screw it up. There's so freaking many of them. What's this? - [Jake] The part that attaches
the wheel to the motor. - Wait a second. This is
the motor for the wheel? (laughing in background) How could that possibly be necessary? - This motor can draw 500 Watts - [Linus] What?! - Because it's roughly
equivalent to a real F1 car. - It's got a cooling fan, Jake. (Jake laughing) - It even comes with
like a little torque key that you have to put in
to get the full torque. And there's an emergency stop button too. I think I broke it. (laughing) - You wanna touch my D-Box? - Does anyone touch your D-Box anymore? - Go for it. Touch it. - These are our Vesa mounts
just for the monitors. I think there's something
like 26 pieces per. - (laughing) Wow. This is so much nicer
than the wheel on my car. - I'm not gonna lie, they
sent us like a BMW wheel. I took it home. - Is this actual carbon fiber? I think it is.
- [Jake] It probably is. - [Linus] Pretty sure it is. - I think I'm going to
try to put the motor on. Do you want to help me with this? Where's the hole? Oh, Linus. - Jake! - It's in. Okay, well now I can just hold the shaft. Hm. Man, I feel like I'm at like
some sort of futuristic dentist and this is going to clean my teeth. - I got this. I don't
need no stinking manual. Man, I did this out of order. - What! Wow. Geez. Look at this thing. Oh, now you wanna play with my shaft. - Wow. - Oh, we have the carbon
fiber knobs for it too. (laughing) Here, catch. - Wow. - Ooh, look at that. This adds horsepower, right Linus? Plus 5? Nice. This one feels weird. It's like heavy down
here, but not up here. It kind of just feels hollow. Oh yeah. Look at that. Oh, I think
I cross-threaded it. - I'm still just scrolling
through steering wheels. - I'm not paying you to slack around. Oh, there's just smoo in it. - I think I might prefer the round knob. Ah, 'kay. They have like, 100 steering wheels - Let's see if I can get
the rest of the SIM built by the time he finishes
that steering wheel. - I just want to know how
paddles go on the thing. - Oh, I'm so stupid. - Okay, I need boxes. - I've been trying to be like, "Ah it doesn't come with the
thing, I need to mount it." Oh, look all the stuff I need. Ha-ha-ha who would have
thought it's in the box? - Oh, there's a picture on the back. (Jake laughing) - The screws I need to mount this bracket are not included. - Wow, these magnets are so strong they keep taking my screws away. - So, what you're saying
is you're having problems putting it in, right? - [Linus] Mm-hmm. - I thought it was pulling out was the one you had
the problem. (laughing) - Turns out my wife, she is
efficient at lots of things. - You know what occurs to
me as I'm installing all of these big things onto here that we're still going
to have to lift it up to put the motion stuff on. - Should be fine. - All right. I guess
we'll just keep going. (buttons clicking) - (Jake laughing) - I told you. - Wow. - After all this, this
better be the wheel we use. I am done with the paddles. Nice. - Oh, buddy. I want to play with this knob some more. - Yeah you do. I'm trying to figure out the
quick-release plate thing. - Are you still working
on that steering wheel? - Oh my goodness. The
fit finish of this thing is just like- Oh wow, okay. - So that's the pedal base.
- Right - And then with the sliders. - That's super cool.
- So the only part we have that's not super easily adjustable, is the steering wheel and the shifter. I think we can get them at a point that they'll be pretty
good for most people. - Let's face it, most of the
people with one of these, I mean, they're probably
the only one who uses it. - Oh whoa! You can adjust the shift resistance. - I have absolutely no idea
where these paddle cables go. - [Jake] Why don't you check the manual? - Is it possible that these
paddles are not compatible? This particular- - No, they definitely are. Have you considered the fact that it could just be user error? What are you trying to figure
out the paddles from that one? That's not going to help you. (race car revving) Just check the manual, man. - I can't find it. They have so many products
with "Clubsport" in the name. It's just utterly unhelpful. I want to download drivers, quick guides, manuals, drilling templates, and other. I really do not understand. This one doesn't even
have the cables on it. - What? Why don't you try just taking
the front of the wheel off? - Yeah. Fine. - (Jake laughing) - Oh, wow. - Holy shit. (Jake grunting) - Like even amongst all these other crazy bits of kit, these look nuts. - [Jake] Definitely gnarly. - [Linus] Found it! - [Jake] So it's in the
thing that I said it was in. - You didn't say it was in there. You said it was in this thing. - [Jake] I said it was either
in this thing or this thing. - Alright, cool. Well that wasn't too bad. That didn't cost us that- I'm feeling a little bit like I'm driving in daddy's car right now. Vroom, vroom. Oh it can not just tilt,
it can actually lower. - Yeah, it could go down here if you want. - That would be great. This SIM will cost more than my car. - Oh, it's definitely worth more. This is like at least 20,000 US. - Let's unpack our ORIGIN PC here. This is what's going to
power the whole experience. Woo. Oh wow. They did a really cool custom graphic on it for us. This thing looks awesome. - [Jake] UV printed. - This is a 12,900 K. So we're going to have absolute
top of the line performance. Got a fricking screen on it. We've got what is presumably 32 gigs of Corsair Dominator Platinum DDR5 memory. 5,200 C38. We're going to be putting
our RTX 3090 in here. Wait, which one's, which now? (metal clanking) Monitors. Support mount. Oh, that's a lot heavier than I... Jake, do you have any idea why we have- (metal clanking) Do you have any idea why
we have six of these? For future reference, extra parts, not actually helpful. Is this a cup holder? - Oh, it fits the chungest one too. - [Jake] Barely, barely. - They say you need a tape measure, but they don't tell me
how far to measure it. - It's usually to set some
sort of default middle ground. I do have a tape measure though. - Right there. Then you
lock that boy into position. Okay. Now this boy goes here. Oh yes. Ow! Can you not take my hardware please. Sir, sir. Okay. I have one of the upgrades, Jake. - [Jake] One. Here we go. Yay. (both laughing) - They feel so good. Man, these are thick. (metal clanking) This is where the entire front piece which is holding up the
monitors, hangs off of. Oh shoot. Is this not the right one again? - [Jake] Come on Linus. You had one job. - I've had two jobs. Hey, I got them. Oh! Shoot. There we go. Oh. Oh crap. Nope. There's definitely a
better way to do this. Okay. Whew. Just missed my phone. Ooh. You know what I wonder Jake? Is if we should just use
one of the extra pieces that they sent over and
just put a cross brace. - [Jake] No, because that's
where the pedals are. - Oh, that makes sense. - Are you sure you used the right pieces? That doesn't look tall enough? No, I guess that's right. - Yeah. - [Jake] Yeah. - [Both] Yeah. - You take these two guys, right? And then you put your
other extrusion on there and it sticks out like that. And you can adjust the angle
of the whole thing like this. Cool. Huh? (Jake laughing) - Oh my God. Oh yeah. (metal clanking on floor) - I wasn't there. I wasn't involved. Very industrial looking. - Ooh. Yeah. I don't know where
we're going to mount that. It came with this plate.
I think this is a floor. And then the boxes mount underneath. - [Linus] Oh. - Hurrah! It's a floor. As you can see, we didn't
quite get finished yesterday. But today, Linus is off shooting an Intel
upgrade for Nicole, I think. Which means I get to
prioritize how things go today. I already checked, this is
the front right actuator so it's going to go kind of here-ish. Another one on the other
side and the back two will be right near the back. The manual just says they should be in a square rectangular pattern and centered on the center of gravity. But we don't really have a
great way of checking that. (grunting) This is- So I think we have to take this off and then we can disconnect these. So I'm just going to leave this. And that one is front, okay. So we're correct. There's not a lot of thread into that. Like, okay, it's in. That's how much thread. It's just not very confidence inspiring. So I was looking at the instruction manual for the D-Box setup and
the wiring is super weird. So this shorty cable, which
comes with both of the boxes, you go from the out into the
end and that's all it does. And then we need a
connection between the two. So we go from the next port which kind of makes sense, next into the end. And then the little black box has to plug into the end of the master. They gave us some included Ethernet cables that are kind of long. So I'm going to go grab some regular ones. Don't look at my butt, Mark. It's going to be tight. Oh, beauty. Oops. Oh (bleep) I need to plug in the power. I swear Kyle just walked into the bathroom and then Jacob came out. The whole rig will move a bit just because it's moving up and down. Sometimes it moves side to side. So this little retainer keeps it in place from moving around in your house. You got little rubber pads on the bottom. So even here, like it doesn't move. You hear that? Holy (bleep) What if I unplug it? Oh cute. It goes back down. That's quite a bit of travel I'm so excited. - [Jamie] Pivot, pivot. - How terrible as that, Mark? What are the odds this fits? - [Jaime] Uh...60/40 - [Gary] Oh, that sidearm
is not tight, but... - Oh! - Dude! They sent us two versions
of this monitor arm, but it looks like this piece, this side arm for the side monitors is just a tiny bit too small. So we're going to swap in the arms that were made for the bigger monitors. Hey Jaime, do you wanna do that while I try to get the computer on? - [Jaime] Yeah, yeah. - I'm doing it? Oh wow. That is a lot of movement. (motor humming) Definitely need to tighten that panel. Whoa. My heart is like. (laughing) And now the clutch works. The brake works. The throttle works. In the software, you have
a lot of configuration, but I set it to 50 for now. I think that's pretty
representative of ABS. Oh my gosh. I need to stop in a real car so. (motor droning) (Jake laughing) (motor droning) That's the test. - So this is it. - Monitors got installed. - Yeah. - Kind of no shank. - That's fine. - We have motion now. - Yep. - I've moved the steering wheel. - The wheel's kind of
in a reasonable spot. So that's cool. - Yeah, I moved the wheel
back like three inches. - And the pedals also? - They're already moved
like all the way back. - Okay. I'm ready. - I think you should
move a tiny bit closer. You're gonna have to push
the brake more than that. - More than that? Oh, I see. So the resistance is really
strong, but you still gotta push her down. - We can define any amount
of braking pressure you want. So this is what I mean. You can set- - That's a lot of force (grunting) - So we can say like maybe 40. - Holy crap. The pedals'
easier to press. Sure. - I played on this for
like three hours yesterday. Spicy. (laughing) This wheel in high torque-mode
will knock your socks off. Oh, let me show you the motion first. - Yeah, I mean something like an inch or something. That feels like a lot more
than an inch and a half. - Yeah. (actuator humming) - Whoa - There's no subwoofer.
That's just the actuators. Are you excited? - I have no idea. (Jake laughing) Hold on. - [Both] Whoa. (engin revving) - You're still, your
foot's still on the clutch. - What? It's not on the clutch - Yeah, I can see it. It was. It's not now. Come on, give her, what are you doing? - The sensation of speed is so different. - You're going to need
to brake more than that. You're barely braking. - Oh, God. I couldn't tell. (Jake laughing) - This is like the
start of the last video. - Oh my God. - Oh, you definitely broke the car. (Jake laughing) Oh, the wheel is stuck
in the ground somehow. - [Linus] Okay. - Let's restart you really quick. (both laughing) Okay, slow down, slow
down, slow down, slow down. - I'm slowing down. (Jake laughing) Gosh - [Jake] Come on, give her. Does it feel easier than the
last time you tried this? - Oh, so much easier. Like I still suck. - [Jake] Well, you don't
know the track at all. - Like the sensation of
speed is so different. - And you feel the bumps and stuff and weight transfer and things. - Oh, a hundred percent. I'm able to get down the road, which is a big improvement over before. - [Jake] Previous?
- Yeah. - Okay. You can go, go, go, go, go. Keep gas foot to the floor, baby. (engine roaring) - Like you could feel it kinda- - Fighting it?
- Yeah, just a little bit. - You got to slow way down. - Oh, boy. - Way down, way down, way down, way down. (Linus flinching) - Watch your granny play a set of Corsa. - You know what, Jake? (Jake laughing) - [Jake] See the shift is not bad, hey? - [Linus] No, it's fine. It's actually pretty natural to use. Okay! Oh no, no, no, no. Okay. Man, being able to feel the
point where you're slipping, that's the problem I have in racing games. (Jake screeching)
No I got it. I can tell what's going on. This is just completely,
completely different. - Ooh. - Ah No! No! - Okay, now we're dead. - Now it's over. (laughing) - Woo! Car's still going. Car's still going true. Yeah. It seems like kind of, oh, hi. Oh! - Do you wanna try the high torque? - I want to try the high torque now. Okay. - Caution, torque key inserted. Read the manual safety
instructions before use. - Yeah, yeah, whatever. - I'm actually expecting
this to be a lot easier. Okay. - You know what? You're going to have to keep
both hands on the wheel. - Wow, is it ever pulling on me. Oh no! - [Jake] Whoa! And now he's not turning enough. - [Linus] Okay. Yeah, this is something. Okay. Wee! (both laughing) - [Linus] Oh no. - Oh, you're not braking. Brake. - I can't brake on the grass, Jake! - You can brake a little bit. You're definitely going
faster than you were before. - Yeah, I'm being kinda cautious. Whoa! Yeah. Man, this is a workout. - The overall feel of this thing's like, incomparable. - I feel like I am slower in this than I am on just like a normal wheel. - Yeah, the brakes, Oh my God. I'm sweating. - Cause you're getting moved around a lot and it's kinda hard to stay on your line once things get a bit hairy. - I don't want to crash cause I'm too scared of what
that's going to feel like. This thing is nutty. Okay, this is pretty fun. - Oh man, now I feel it in the arms. That's like, (grunting) okay, I'm so warm. (Linus laughing) I got to say, honestly, the surround didn't contribute that much. Whereas if we took it away though, maybe it would feel way less immersive. - Yeah
- Hard to say. What's not hard to say is, thanks. SIM-LAB, Fanatec, Heusinkveld, GIGABYTE, and of course ORIGIN PC
who sponsored this video. This is their Millennium. It starts sat around 2,500 US dollars and they have ready to ship configurations that'll ship in one to three days. So whether you've got a last minute event, you need a gift for, or a holiday present
or something like that. ORIGIN PC has got you covered. Everything from more
entry-level gaming rigs, all the way to the
absolute top of the line like what you're looking at here with their UV printing and all that. And of course there's more to a gaming PC than just the specs. ORIGIN PC has outstanding customer service and they're just generally
really good folks over there. So make sure you check them
out at the link down below. If you guys are looking
for another video to watch, maybe you can check out the not as elegant solution that I tried. The YAW VR. I suspect that's come
a long way in software since the last time I tried it. But boy, was that ever
an ordeal to get set up. I got really sick. Before you do that though, check out the links in
the video description. We're going to have all the hardware that we use to put
together this exact setup. So you might end up doing something a little lower end probably. You might end up doing
something higher end. In which case good for you. I'm glad you have, you
know, a really good career. You're so successful. (both laughing) We should just end this. Bye guys.