- I know Kung Fu. Oh crap, go ahead and cut. In spite of all the progress in VR over the last 10 years there's still one fatal flaw breaking the immersion. No matter what I do, even
with the knuckles controllers where I can open my hands entirely, I am always acutely aware that I'm just a guy in my living room, in my underwear, waving
around plastic fallacies. Now there are companies out there that make finger tracking
glove style controllers, but they cost anywhere from $100 to literally $1000 to purchase. But one man has risen, not high mind you and said that's too much. And he has made a product that you can make for yourself for just $60, $60 really? - Yeah. - And that's a thumbs up. - Yes, - I get it. That's good. You know what else is good? Our sponsor. - Build Redux. Build Redux offers
competitive pricing compared to building a PC yourself. Their website makes it easy
to configure your build alongside their helpful support guide, head to buildredux.com/linus and start creating your PC today. - With me today, I have two exciting things. The Lucid glove prototype 4 which does things I have
just never seen before. It offers hand presence in VR through the use of a
bolted on vibe tracker or Oculus quest, two controller. And it actually offers
not only finger awareness but through the use of servos tied to strings it offers you the ability to grasps items in VR
and feel force feedback on your individual fingers. The other thing I have, is it's creator Lucas. - Hello - Lucas, talk to me, start with why is it for sex things? - It's primarily right now for games for VR games, - Sex games. - For fun games - Are sex games fun? (Lucas chuckles) Why do we want hands in VR? - Well, so a big part of being able to interact with objects in games is being able to go and
actually grasp them. But so when you're actually holding a controller in your hand you're just grasping the same shape every single time of this controller. But so now what you can
do is use your hands as if there was nothing in them and then actually be
able to pick things up and interact with them. - Now you've clearly gone
through multiple revisions to get to the stage you're at today. Do you wanna talk us
through it a little bit before we get into the crazy demo we're about to do. - So this is pretty rough. It didn't really survive the shipping. This was prototype one. This was the one that went viral on TikTok and it broke a lot but it worked well enough at the time to get, you know kind of the information that I needed to make him better. - You've gone from sort of
a parallel aligned spool to a perpendicular aligned spool. You've got, what's clearly
a much more robust system for wire management or line management. What else have you learnt? - So moving on to prototype two, mainly this is the first one that didn't catch on fire, but on top of that,
this one was much better at actually fitting on your hand and staying there. And this is the first time I actually had it working inside of steam VR games - [Linus] Prototype three. - This is when I started messing around with adding wireless capabilities to it, getting the finger
tracking really consistent and getting it a lot more comfortable. - And prototype four. - This is the one that
added haptic support as well as much better my outing for everything like the controllers so that it stays all in one piece. - And it's still wireless. I'm assuming the battery is in here. - No. The battery is external and we're gonna be using this to power it for now. - So what is in here? - In there, that is actually all of the wiring in order to get this board to connect to all of the rest of it. A lot of it could be done without it but I did it this way. So it's easier to switch out parts and test things. - Got it. And this is the emergency
stop button, I suppose. - That is the calibration button that we're gonna use to make it so that it
actually matches your hand. - Is it okay I just pressed that? - Yeah, you're fine. - I like big red buttons. Let's go try it. Wow. Lucas, this feels just like a plan. I could swear I'm hold an apple. And if you told me that this was an actual genuine alpaca blend pillow from Ittstore.com. I believe you. - All right. So we are gonna hook you up here and we're just gonna test all
the motors on your fingers. So you should feel resistance in... - Oh, I definitely do. - Okay, great. Great. And then that's off. That's on. - Okay, that it's definitely on, you know what it feels like? It feels like the opposite of like, have you ever had someone like push on your tendons?
- Yeah. And close your hand. It feels like the opposite of that. Like it's holding my
fingers open, you know? Okay. But I can't move them at all right. - That's means there's a
big thing in your hand. - Got it. So I'm holding like a big - Choose your words, carefully. - Grapefruit, basketball, cantaloupe. Yeah, cantaloupe. I'm holding a big cantaloupe. Yvonne, if you're watching it was definitely a Cantaloupe. - All right. Now let's put it into Bluetooth mode and we will hook it up on the computer. - Okay. - So are you in VR? - I am in VR. - What do you see on your left hand? - VR? - Do you don't see it left hand? - Oh, no, I don't see the left hand. - So we're gonna turn on the vibe tracker. Oh - Oh, whoa. - [Lucas] It started a little. (Linus shouting) - Whoa. There's one not working. That's really, really
unfortunate you guys. Oh there it is. Now this, how has just open and closed? That's it. There's touch sensors on the controller, but this that is so crazy. Okay, what's next? - [Lucas] Okay. And now try to grab a cube and see how it feels. - [Linus] A Cube? - [Lucas] Or anything. - Geez. (lively music) Okay. So as I get into range,
the servos kick in. - [Lucas] That's to prevent latency in actually grabbing it. - Okay. Geez. - [Lucas] Are you okay? - Yeah, I'm fine. It just tripped me out a little bit. Like I finally managed to pick it up and it just like Oh, it like, whoa. Oh, keep, where are you? Oh, I have your balls in my hands. What is your plan? - I really wanna do anything I can do to make these gloves as
accessible as possible. Right now, the best way I can do that is by open sourcing the project and having people build it themselves. But at some point if there's a way that I can make the gloves accessible to people who don't have a 3D printer or can't build their own gloves, then I really, you know at some point definitely
wanna go down that route. - So you'd say you're weeks away from final product shipping. - Oh yeah. This one might only work for like 5 seconds
cause it's not as built. - But it'll be the best
5 seconds of Linus life. I knew it was a sex thing. Whoa. Are you getting this Brandon? - [Brandon] Yep. That's fricking awesome. Okay, the left one's a little Yeah, it's doing stuff. But the right one is like, whoa, look at that. Can you see this? That's crazy. Whoa. That, Hey, that's cool. It's thin. Okay. That is next level. Do you have a plan to Debulkify it a bit? - [Lucas] Yeah, that's
actually my next prototype. My prototype five. I'm planning on shrinking it as much as I can maybe moving
some stuff up the arm and also trying to make it as durable and reliable as I can. - Okay. Cool. (Linus chuckling) What get over here. Get, get, oh, that's so cool. I can turn dials. This thing is absolutely nerdy. I am very looking forward to seeing the next prototype which is apparently gonna be smaller, more durable. And you were saying people in the community have even built ones that are like better than yours. - Totally, I mean people have taken this kind of reference design and modeled their own versions off of it. - That is absolutely incredible. And you're still in school, I guess. - Yeah. - What was I doing at your age? A lot of counterstrike source and I'm not even good at it. What I am good at is telling
you about our sponsor. - Wealthfront is the
automated investment platform that builds a portfolio based on your risk tolerance to help grow your money long term. If you put off investing
because you thought it took a ton of time and research. Well, great news. It, it doesn't have to Wealthfront makes it
super easy to get started. All you need is a few minutes and $500 to open an account. You can set it up, answer some questions and let Wealthfront take care of the rest. Like using Spotify for
its personalized playlist built to your tastes. Or you can build your own portfolio with hundreds of investment
options across tech, healthcare, real estate and more. Their tax loss harvesting software looks for opportunities daily to
help lower your tax bill. And in turn can boost
your after tax returns. Plus they're always
adding new ETFs over time. Each one hand selected
and vetted by experts. You can explore all of these investments right on their website. So whatever your investment goals are Wealthfront gives you the tools to build a portfolio that
you're excited about. So check them out at the link below and get a special signup bonus. Massive thanks to Lucas for coming all the way out here. Guys you definitely gonna
wanna check out his discord. Where else can people find you - YouTube, TikTok, and Hackaday. - YouTube, TikTok and Hackaday. And if you guys are
looking for another video to watch maybe you'd enjoy our smell-O-vision video where we checked out another really cool indie project that allowed us to smell in VR, ah, pine fresh.