- Anthony, hey, can I borrow USB? (dramatic music) I asked for a USB? - You have what you need my child. Now go. (dramatic music) - What is this thing? Has storage chips on it, but none of the interfaces you'd expect from a storage device. Wait, it's (indistinct) real USB header. But what is this thing? Who's it for? Why did I pay $90 for it? Do you know about our sponsor? Origin PC. Origin PCs, all new EVO17-S
thin-and-light laptop can be customized with
up to an RTX 3080 Ti, a 12th Gen Intel core processor, and up to a 17.3 inch,
240 Hertz, QHD LED screen. Learn more at the link down below. - This peculiar piece is
the Micron e230 USB 2.0 SSD. And it must be the most money that we have ever spent or at least in the past decade for eight gigabytes of flash memory. For the price of just one of these, I could have purchased 20 of these. So what is the deal with this thing? Well, this is what's
called a USB DOM or DOM. And it has nothing to do with
the much kinkier Sub and Dom you may have heard of, although there are other such terms like master and slave. Man, the tech community, am I right? DOM in this context
stands for disc on module. And in many ways, it's not that different from any other storage drive. It's just that you don't
need any additional power or ribbon cables to connect it. It's just a module with a disc on it that plugs directly into the motherboard kinda like an M.2 drive, but with much, much worse performance. So it's just a USB drive, but with a wonky connector. Yes, but also no. There are a couple of key
differences at play here. For starters, this thing is server grid. The e230 has 15 bit ECC for
maintaining data integrity, static and dynamic wear
leveling to extend the lifetime of the device by divvying out
the work to all the blocks in the NAND equally and a very
specific small form factor. Let me show you what something
like this might be used for. No, no. Oh boy. Oh, there we go. Yeah, it's a little jank in some servers, they don't have the little guides, so you just had to kinda line it up and hope that you're not mashing pins. But of course, USB 2.0 pins are very thick so you don't really need to worry about mashing them too much. Whatever kinda storage server you have, you'll have a limited number
of SATA and PCIe connections. But you still need
something to hold your OS that you're gonna run, right? If you are running something like Unraid, which runs entirely in RAM
while the system is on, this is the perfect solution for a low cost reliable boot drive. Just pop it into the USB 2.0 header on your bobo, boot into it, and because it will only very
occasionally receive reads or writes, it should run
reliably for a long time. Furthermore, this tiny form
factor lends itself well to Compact 1U or 2U servers where space's are premium. Also being server hardware, you get the spec bumps
to match across the board including rate of the
operating temperatures, shock and vibration ratings and life expectancy or
meantime before failures. So for a specific person, this is just the thing
they were looking for. It also would be great for
super compact embedded systems with specific purposes like this drive even has a screw hole to keep it tightly fastened
to the motherboard. But why not just use any USB drive servers have USB ports right? Well, they do, but generally
servers don't bother with more than two USB ports so you can plug in a keyboard and mouse. But the real issues are
reliability and security. The second last thing you want is for someone to snag their
sweater on the boot drive of a mission critical
machine ripping it out. And the last thing you
want is a ne'er-do-well, swiping it inserting some malicious code and plugging it back in. Another reason USB drives suck for this purpose is they tend to be made out of the absolute worst
NAND manufacturers can find. It runs slowly, it's prone to errors, and generally has a very limited lifespan. And this is fine for those
cheapo random USB keys that you get during your
college's orientation week beside the bowl of condoms. But when you need to,
you know, do real work, they're dangerous to rely on. (beep) So why do companies sell products that they know are unreliable at all? For a few reasons. You see, not all silicon
is created equally. And when you're doing any
sort of manufacturing, you're gonna encounter mistakes and errors that will
lead to losses and waste. Companies want to minimize
that waste to maximize profits. For example, at lttstore.com, we sell scrunches made from the scraps from producing our t-shirts. This not only reduces the
amount of material heading to the landfill, but also lets us sell more of the fabric that we
purchase for production. This is something you see all
the time in the tech world. For example, with CPUs. Often AMD or Intel will be
trying to produce a bunch of their top of the line, multi core CPUs, but due to errors or impurities in the manufacturing process, some of those cores aren't
functioning up to spec, resulting in poor
performance or instability. Well, they don't just throw it out. There's still plenty of meat on that bone. Deactivate the fault cores,
slap a new name on it, drop the price and baby,
you got a skew going. In fact, binning is what leads to CPUs like the new 12900KS, which is literally just a 12900K but clock a bit faster. In this case, binning isn't the only
factor affecting performance. Lower quality controllers
can also influence speed. And I bet this cheap drive has a very low quality controller. There's also another reason that these things still go for 90 bucks. This device uses SLC or
single level cell NAND. It's the most basic form of NAND that only accepts one bit per memory cell, but it's also kinda the best. The TLC or QLC NAND in
modern SSDs hold three or four bits per memory cell allowing for much
greater storage capacity. But this comes at the cost
of speed and reliability, which in a server setting, isn't ideal. To see this in action, we tested this random
thumb drive we have here in CrystalDiskMark and it ran in about 17.8
megabytes per second or 142 megabits per second, which is less than a
third of the max speed of the USB 2.0 spec. And man, those write
speeds are just terrible. They're five megabytes per second. Compare that to this thing, which runs nearly twice the speed for reads and triple
the speeds for writes. I mean, obviously all of these
numbers pale in comparison to a SATA SSD or even
a USB 3.0 thumb drive, but go easy like this bad
boy's over 10 years old. Now, these days you would be
better off using a sata DOM, if you, (laughing) saying that after that joke earlier. (beep) These days you would be
better off using a sata DOM, if you had the space available in your system and the budget. It serves the same function as a USB DOM, but can read and write much faster or you could use an
internal USB 3 header Dom or a normal drive at an
internal type A port, something many modern server motherboards are actually equipped with now. It all depends on your tolerance to dealing with boot drive rebuilds. I know Linus and Jake have experienced multiple drive failures on their Unraid boxes over the years including some of our servers here. And it's been a bit of a pain in the butt. Bottom line, if you're in
the market for a device with higher quality NAND, enterprise level features
like ECC and wear leveling and a very specific form
factor that allows you to use that last empty
port on your motherboard, well, this is for you. If you heard literally anyone else, then you might wanna look at our sponsor. - Squarespace. Running your own business can be hard but making your website
doesn't have to be. Squarespace is an all in one platform that makes it easy to get your website up and running quickly. So grow your business online through their marketing features, including SEO support, email
campaigns, and special tools. They have a wide selection of award-winning mobile
optimized templates and their commerce platform comes with everything you need from
merchandising to checkout. If you need help, Squarespace
offers help guides and a 24/7 support team. We love Squarespace so much, we even use it for alliancemedia.com, which is a hell of a website. Have you been there? Head to squarespace.com/ltt
and get 10% off today? - Thanks for watching guys. This is a well, very specific
piece of hardware here. So maybe go check out another very specific piece of hardware, the GRE storage controller. That thing is actually pretty cool, although Wendell from
Level 1 Tech had some words to say about it that I think
we should probably consider. Oh, hey look, this came off. We did it (indistinct).