In this video, we're going
on a $250,000 vacation. This is beautiful. How is this real? And I'm going to show you
the difference between this and a $100,000
presidential vacation. Right this way, sir. A $50,000 vacation where we have
the Eiffel Tower completely to ourselves. I'm holding on for dear life. All the way down to this $1 vacation. Right over here, boys.
This shack is our vacation. - You can see inside of it.
- There's no walls, Jimmy. - Well, I mean, there is walls.
- This is gross. And in case you don't believe me,
it's a dollar. - Look at that.
- Oh, it's $0.93. You're a liar. I rounded up to a dollar. For $1 we get this bed, which is honestly
just a mattress sitting on wood planks, a broken cabinet,
a light that sort of works. Oh, look at that. And lastly, random noises
coming from the ceiling. I was hearing noises in the room,
and there's a raccoon on our roof. I feel like most people would be mad
if their hotel room had a raccoon. But for some reason, we're happy. - When is the check out time?
- Tomorrow. Keep in mind that
later in this video, we're going on a $100,000 vacation. A $250,000 vacation. Can we just jump to that already? No, because we got to suffer so they can compare our
suffering to our happiness. They do like when we suffer. Are we all supposed
to fit on a single bed? If we wanted four beds,
that'd be $4. First, let's get all this sand out. The raccoon just ran in here. I'm gonna act like I didn't scream
like a little girl. Up next, a vacation that's 10,000 times
more expensive. Welcome to the
$10,000 a night vacation. - Oh, my gosh.
- Yo, this is sick! Wait, what the heck is this? This hotel room has jellyfish. - Okay, that's so unnecessary.
- Oh, there's a pool outside. It's a private pool. Does this not look like a scene
from a movie? Your hotel room walks
out to the beach. - Wow.
- Is this our own private beach? Oh, my gosh. This is incredible. Tareq, since when is water this blue? I don't know. This all inclusive vacation
also has a giant spa. Oh, yeah. A park filled with flamingos. Oh, they're fighting - Flamingos.
- And unlimited room service. Okay, what do you need? All of it. The only negative of this place
is it doesn't have a raccoon. Hey, little guy. But I don't blame them for that. When you spend $10,000
at this all inclusive resort, we each get our own floor
of the building. It looks exactly like Jimmy's,
except for I got the top floor. Oh, I have a hammock. I think I can make it in the hammock
without getting wet. I didn't. Yo, look at your view! - Chris!
- Hey. I caught it. - 3, 2, 1…
- Hey! All right, let me lay out
some rules. - Rule number one.
- Yeah. No more throwing pillows in my pool. Rule number two. Sorry, Tareq. And now
what the hotel is known for, this insane infinity pool that extends over our
own personal beach. How does the water just not overflow? I have so many questions. I feel like a father
that took his kids on vacation and is just watching them
hang out in the pool. The $10,000 vacation has been insane, but not as insane
as our next vacation all the way across the planet. And now the $50,000
vacation in Paris. - Oui!
- Baguette! Our $50,000 vacation starts with a completely
private luxury ferry ride. What is that? That's the engine? Bro, what is this, 1805?
Tareq, zoom in on that guy. He is filming us. Hey. - They waved back.
- Do you have a YouTube channel? I don't think he speaks English. This vacation comes complete
with fantastic food. A tour of the entire city. All right. And a luxury hotel room
with an amazing view. - This is kind of romantic, huh?
- Yeah. You and Chandler should kiss. And lastly,
we have a very expensive surprise. So you guys are probably wondering, it's a $50,000 vacation, and we clearly haven't
spent 50 grand yet. Yeah, where is it? It's behind you. That's the Eiffel Tower. Yes. We have the entire Eiffel Tower
completely to ourselves. Wait, actually? Yeah. What portion of the 50 grand
was the tower? Almost all of it. We are at the Eiffel Tower. This feels like we're sneaking in. No, I'm not joking. It's ours.
No one else is here. We can just go
straight through the line. This feels illegal. Most of the time,
this place is packed with people. And because we have the whole thing
completely to ourselves, we're going to try
to get to the top of the tower. I'm talking the very top. Boys, enough playing around.
Let's head up. On the way up, we stopped at the first floor,
over 187 feet in the air, where we had a world class restaurant
all to ourselves. I love though, even though
we have the entire Eiffel Tower, they still put us
in a corner of the restaurant. That's the elevator coming from the top
of the Eiffel Tower. That looks terrifying. Open sesame. Thank you. I can see
my house from up here. We're in France. I can see my hotel from up here. - Look how high up we are.
- Oh, my ears are popping. What are we working with here? Oh, my gosh. You can see the whole city from here. This is crazy. Tareq.
Look how much higher we have to go. This is never going to end. I'm not going to lie,
I thought we were already at the top. We're going up. Now we're heading to the top.
At one point, this was the tallest building
in the world. - Should I jump right now?
- No. Do not move. Come on, boys, follow me. From here on out, there's no more
elevators, just stairs. Oh, it's windy up here. We are high up there. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Tareq,
don't drop the camera. We are standing over
900 feet in the air. The highest point
civilians are allowed on the tower. But since it's ours for the night,
I had one last surprise. What do you think's
behind this door? Stairs. Actually, did I... - How did you know?
- We can see the stairs. Well, yes, there are more stairs, but this takes us
to the very top where no one's allowed to go. Oh, my gosh. Bro. Oh, my God. - Are we allowed on that?
- I don't know. Oh, that is scary. The ledge just comes up
to my waist up here. I am holding on for dear life. I completely understand
why tourists are not allowed up here. We have a cameraman
on the other side of the city with a lens zoomed in on us. He's over a mile away. If this lens is good enough, you should be able to see us
waving for a $50,000 vacation. You got to admit,
this is cool. This is amazing. It'a a once in a lifetime experience. Are you ready
for the best moment yet? I don't know why a YouTuber
has this much power, but lights. Oh, there we go. Oh, my God. Like a disco show. Holy cow! Guys, I don't know
if this next command is going to work,
but turn every light off. Oh, it's pitch black. The Eiffel Tower went dark. What are these millions of French
people thinking right now? They should get me off this tower. I don't know why
they gave me this much control. Next, we head to Switzerland
for the $100,000 vacation. But this is no ordinary vacation. This hotel has two inch thick,
bulletproof windows, a panic button that will lock down
the entire building and it's riddled with security
because this is a hotel where world leaders and presidents
take their vacation. And also the sidemen were in town.
So I invited them to come. Oh, my God. It smells like food in here. We've got the whole ocean in there. - What?
- This is nuts. This is the most expensive penthouse
suite in all of Europe. It covers the whole eighth floor,
has dozens of rooms, tons of staff waiting
on you day and night and absolutely crazy food everywhere. You want a hit?
Yeah, get a hit of that. Oh, yeah. How do these guys compare
to your normal guests? So you'd say they're
pretty dumb compared to… Like I said before, some
of the most powerful world leaders choose this place
for their vacations. Even Bill Clinton stayed here
and he wasn't assassinated. It's pretty safe. In terms of security, here you
have the bulletproof windows. Even this is bulletproof. Oh, my. It feels thick. Pretty solid. I hope. I'm a president. There are also some snipers that we can put on the rooftop. You have your own snipers. Are you able to negotiate
on behalf of the Sideman? - I can try my best.
- Yes. This will help me in my negotiation. I'd like to buy a 10%. - How much, boys?
- Go, you say it. 200 million, Jimmy. 200 million. All right. To the panic button. - Oh, no.
- I'm not going to lie. I've been wanting to press
this button since we got here. We all agree this is a good idea. - No.
- No. Karl. You're Bill Clinton,
and you feel threatened. Press the panic button.
You pressed it. Oh, wait. - I see a door closed.
- Are we locked in? - Is it locked?
- Are you guys in there? Is that Nolan? Yeah. The door's like shut. I walked off for one second. This button opens it. You don't get to panic
and then open it. If you press the button now, the police will come. And there's a big fine. Don't press it again. I've been thinking. How would a president
get somewhere like McDonald's? Let's see how presidents travel.
Come on in. It turns out
when you're the president, you have to go everywhere
with your bodyguards. So that means that when you drive… Oh, we got an entourage. How do we know which car to get into? On the third or the fourth. Ideally the third or fourth. - Which car is the most dangerous?
- The first one. Nolan, you should ride
the first one. - I can do that.
- Okay. Who wants to ride with me? Harry, come on in. Harry, Chandler. I'm sure the president
doesn’t sit in the middle. Typically,
you guys would be my bodyguards. But, you know, you'll suffice. Just squeeze in mate.
Squeeze in. What president
is going to McDonald's? Does your window roll down?
Hey, how's it going? Now we're gonna get shot! I can't believe we can do this. This is nice. Turns out when you travel
in a presidential motorcade, a lot of people start to notice you. How's it going? This is bonkers, man. I love how we just draw
the attention of everyone. People are filming, like we're the president.
This is weird. Which made McDonald's
a little awkward. What's going on? Don't mind our security. Jimmy, does this beat out
the Eiffel Tower for you? Depends how good these nuggets are. Obviously, all of the vacations so far have been amazing, but they pale in comparison
to the next one. Our final vacation is once again
across the planet. And now we're in Japan
for the $250,000 vacation and we're meeting up
with a special guest here, so you're gonna want
to watch till the end. To start off our vacation we dropped off our bags in the most
expensive hotel in all of Japan. This is gigantic. I have an echo in a hotel room. And afterwards, we felt like getting to know
the city of Tokyo. Now we're going to drive
Mario Karts on the street. We rented private Mario Karts but we get to literally drive
on the streets of Japan. People are just staring at us. This is not meant to be on a street. There's real cars
driving right beside me. Well, look how many people
are crossing the street here. This is the busiest crosswalk in the world,
and we're driving right through it. We're on Go-karts in Tokyo.
Go-karts! I love Japan. This place is crazy. When we arrived
at our next destination, we met with master swordsman
Yoshioki Sumida. He's been training with the katana
for the last 26 years, and he actually agreed to giving us
a rare lesson in the art of the Samurai. We each got our own katanas and the lesson began
with swinging techniques. It was not as easy as we thought. No, they're going to zoom in on it. Then it was my turn. Boys, you think I'm gonna
be able to do this? - Yes.
- Yeah, you got it. Hey! Let's see how the boys do. Whoa, whoa, whoa! Who am I? And then, our samurai teacher
gifted us this insane katana. I don't deserve this, but thank you. And because this is a quarter million
dollar vacation, we rented out the most premium
sushi chef in the world, along with this entire
floating restaurant. They got Louis Vuitton coasters. The chef makes all the food right
next to our table, and getting to see a master at work was one of
the coolest dining experiences I've ever had. Oh, wow. Oh, my God. They said we could
feed the birds tuna. Here you go, little man See how he caught him
in the air? And once we paid the bill… Thank you. we were off to the craziest place
I've ever been. Follow me.
I rented this whole place. But before we see it, socks off. This is basically an art museum,
but for experience. Oh, my God. I have goosebumps. My eyes are having a hard time
processing it. You think this is what it looks like
when you die? Probably. What is this next room? Normally, this place
is completely full of other people, but we secured the entire experience
for ourselves. This might be one of the best things
we've ever done. Dude, are these fish? We're in a pool, in a museum playing
with animated fish. This is the most unique thing
you could ever do on a vacation. Wait, the fish are surrounding us. How did they know to surround us? They love us. They're going everywhere now. Now you're all probably hungry. Which is why we're at this restaurant
that is ran by robots. What? My name is Pepper. Can we have a seat, Pepper? Sure.
Let's find a comfortable spot. We've reserved the entire place, so the only other people here
were the robot waiters. Food robot is here. Wait, so the food is delivered
on a robot? An oddly fluffy robot. Pepper staring really hard
at Chandler. Pepper does not like Chandler. Bro, I did nothing to you. Everyone make sure
you eat tons of food 'cause tomorrow I rented
an entire theme park and PewDiePie is going to be there,
which is really crazy. You see, PewDiePie
and I have a long history. I was wondering
when you would show up. We helped him in a subscriber race
against T-series. Grab your phone. Go on YouTube, search PewDiePie
and subscribe to him. Eventually, we even caught up to him. Mr. Beast has taken
over me in subscribers. I guess I'm getting a taste
of my own medicine. That's all right.
He definitely deserves it. And even though we've
been friends for a while, we've never actually met in person. And because this is such
a long awaited meetup, I rented this entire amusement park. This is Fuji-Q Highland, the park with the scariest rides
in all of Japan. It usually has thousands of people
waiting in line. But as per usual, I rented the whole thing
just for us. You can ride whatever ride you want. I wasn't done but he left. I'm about to go on this entire
roller coaster alone. What you're seeing here is
the steepest roller coaster drop in the world. Are you scared? - Yes.
- Have fun! I'm scared for him. And like I promised, the father of YouTube,
PewDiePie, met us in the park. A little later than planned
because I texted on the wrong day. Sorry, Felix. And he wanted to ride
the craziest coaster at the park. Why are you scared? I'm so scared of roller coasters. This is one doesn't spin at all. I'll ride it if Felix rides it. - Let's go!
- I'm terrified. I'll do it. I'll do it. If I die on this roller coaster,
you guys are going to feel terrible. You take your shoes off? - Anything that could fly out.
- That's how you know this is bad. They don't even trust us
with shoes on this ride. You got this. You'll be fine. I cannot. This was my worst nightmare. I'm scared, I don't want
to do this. You're scaring me. Calm down! Whatever you do, don't throw up. I'm terrified.
Can we pick a better one? We could have picked
a nice, comfortable ride. I actually have no idea what it is. At some point,
there's a literal 90 degree drop. You're freaking me out.
What did you sign me up for? You brought me here. But what we didn't know was this ride goes backwards. Why are we going backwards? Why did I do this? Oh, my God. We're upside down! Jimmy! This is crazy! Best roller coaster ever! Oh, my gosh. Felix, what did we just do? I'm crying. Best roller coaster ever. I got tears just running down. It was good meeting you, Jimmy.
I'm gonna head out. Oh, yeah. You screamed
at the first little bow. What? Thank you. I don't think I've ever had
a chewy potato before. That's what you get for passing me. Felix, I'm sorry for passing you. You don't have to threaten me
with violence though. - They're good.
- Yeah, they are good. That was the $250,000 vacation. Felix, can you transition us? Bro fist.