- You might not like it but this is what peak
performance looks like And it is chonky, yeah. Kind of reminds me of a stubby G4 Cube. The Mac studio and matching studio display are the two latest
announcements out of Apple and of everything they announced today they're easily the most exciting both powered by Apple Silicon they're set to usher in
a new era performance for apple enthusiasts but the way Apple's gone about this makes things so much more complicated unlike our sponsor Ridge wallet. Thanks to Ridge wallet for
sponsoring today's video. Ridge wallet holds up to 12 cards comes with a cash strap or a money clip and is available in
tons of different colors celebrate Ridge's ninth anniversary and use offer code Linus for 15% off site wide until March 18th at the link below. (playful cheerful music) The new max studio is in every way what we all feared the
Mac pro would become when apple started the
transition to Apple Silicon an entirely unexpandable design with fully solder components
in a Mac mini enclosure that decided to make a
little taller than usual cooled by two beefy fans that pull air up through the bottom of the chassis and out to the rear grill something Apple says is nearly silent there's actually a lot
going for this design. For starters you get 10
gigabit ethernet as standard. Thank you Apple. Now the rest of the rear IO is rearranged but looks basically the
same as the Intel Mac mini with a high impedance pro audio output that I suspect is the same as on the new MacBook pros turn it around however and you'll see that Apple has finally acquiesced added front facing connectors two USB type C 10 gigabit ports and an SDX C reader while support from a brand
new SD express format would've been nice to see as a future proofing measure what we're getting tracks
with the larger MacBook pros. If you pick up an M1
ultra equipped max studio those types C ports up front turn into Thunderbolt ports wait M1 ultra Yeah turns out Apple's
been holding out on us and their M1 max chips
had an unused interconnect called ultra fusion that allows for a chip style connection between two M1 maxes
to make up an M1 ultra the effective result is a single SOC as far as software is concerned and gives a metric bug
load of CPU and GPU cores double the already very
impressive media engine on the M1 max and twice
the maximum memory capacity at 800 gigabytes per second that is faster memory than the GDR 6X that is used on Avid RTX 3080 and 3090. That is pretty amazing and even more amazing as the memory itself
isn't even clocked faster. There's just that many
more channels to work with. If you believe what Apple has to say the M1 ultra is up to 60% faster than the Mac pro equipped
with 28 Zion W cores and 80% faster than that
machine's fastest GPU the Radeon W6900X. They still sell those by the way something about those claims though it doesn't really pass the sniff test. Part of that claim is that it's also 90% faster than
a 16 core desktop CPU while drawing a hundred Watts less power you might think that's referring to the only current 16 core desktop CPU the rise in 95950X but in fact they're talking
about the core i9-12900K which is an eight plus eight core CPU with performance and efficiency cores much like Apple Silicon. what's more Max Turbo Power
on the 12900K is 241 Watts. So we can surmise based on Apple's own data
that the M1 ultra draws around 140 Watts which is still a lot of Watts. The 12900K is TDP at
base clock is 125 Watts and I can guarantee you M1 ultra doesn't draw just 25 Watts but that's the CPU 128 gigs of unified memory offers an unprecedented amount
of potential VERA to the GPU Apple is right in that the
biggest workstation card on the market right now the RTX A6000 caps out a meager 48 gigs. Sure you can connect multiple
as six thousands together via NVlink but having that
much memory in a single package is a significant feather in Apple's cap. They're also making
some interesting claims about beating the highest end discrete GPU while also using 200
Watts less power though the footnote says they're talking about the RTX 3090 using select industry standard benchmarks. So take from that what you will I expect performance
will be decent either way but it it's very possible this specific claim
leans on the media engine as Apple has done in the past and they're not talking about
raw compute performance. I'd like to be wrong though. Speaking of the doubled up
media engine is now capable of running 18 simultaneous
8K ProRes, 422 streams. So it really does sound like an ideal workstation
for most professionals especially as software
support comes online like with blender 3.1 you'll be able to make use of it too up to four pro display XDR and a 4K HDMI device simultaneously that is more battle stations certainly more pixels than Apple has ever officially supported. Internal storage doesn't
look expandable however So you'll need to add over $2,000 for 8 terabytes if you
don't want external storage a fact made worse by recent revelations that Apple's SSD performance isn't as good as they claim it is. They're cheating and in the process, putting data at risk if an unexpected shutdown occurs the onboard battery in a MacBook makes this a non-issue but on a stationary machine
plugged into wall power Well make sure that you combine the Mac studio with a battery backup. That'll add to the already high price tag for the M1 ultra variant but if you take Apple at their word it's the most powerful machine you can buy for the money. Get subscribed because we are definitely
putting that claim to the test. You might also want to
combine the Mac studio with a new studio display. Apple certainly wants you to the panel itself seems
suspiciously similar to the existing LG UltraFine 5K with a slight bump and peak brightness and 10 gig type C ports instead of 5 gig. It even has similar power
delivery capabilities to the recent models so it seems like a bit of a cop out until you get under the hood. Ye from lttstore.com. Got it in there what makes the studio display special aside from the aluminum
and glass construction is the A13 bionic chip powering a plethora of onboard goodies. It's got a very similar
speaker array on paper to the 24 inch M1 iMac complete with special audio a three-mic array presumably
with noise suppression and an integrated 12
megapixel FaceTime camera capable of center stage which means you can finally
use center stage on a Mac like the one place it makes a lot of sense not to mention the A13 provides the image signal processing we've come to expect from Apple Silicon. That means that the Mac itself doesn't need to do any of the work freeing up the neural
engine for other tasks. It even makes these AI features usable on Intel max as old as 2016. Now the studio display XDR comes with three mounting options a 30 degree tilt-adjustable stand a pro display XDR like stand except without rotation support and an ugly VESA mount although it looks like you need to choose what
you want out of the factory because unlike the pro display XDR there isn't a user
accessible mounting mechanism on the display itself. Thankfully the VESA mount and tilt adjustable stand are options that don't add to the
already lofty 1599 price tag but the tilt and height adjustable stand costs an extra 400 bucks I guess rotation is a $600 value now it's worth mentioning that the UltraFine 5K is $300 cheaper and it's already priced $300 higher than the old Thunderbolt displays were I can't win 'em all I guess but hey you've got the option of buying color matched
silver and black peripherals. So it's not all bad whatever the rest of the event
was pretty unimpressive we got a spec bump for the iPad air now powered by the M1
SOC with 8 gigs of Ram and rocking a 12 megapixel
front camera with central stage. It's got 5G support now
and it comes in new colors. I don't really know what else to say here they're comparing it to
a similarly priced laptop and while I don't disagree
that for a layperson it's probably a better experience it's really not the same thing unless and until they bring Mac OS to the iPad which they stubbornly refuse to do the other specs as much as they talked
about them are the same with the exception of the type C port which is now 10 gigabits
per second rather than 5. It's a little less
disappointing than the iPhone SE and I know that's going to be a hot take but hear me out the price is going up and all we're getting
is the A 15 bionic SOC a few hours better battery life ceramic shield and 5G. The rest is exactly the same right down to the iPhone
eight and star chassis. Now to be clear I wasn't expecting Apple
to reinvent the wheel here. I understand that things
are getting more expensive and glad this form
factor is still available but it would've been nice to see MagSafe come to the SE by Apple's own admission this is going to be many
people's first foray into iPhone and MagSafe is becoming a
big part of the ecosystem I might be giving Apple
a harder time over this than I should be but I I feel
it's a missed opportunity particularly given how long SE models have traditionally stayed in market. And that is basically
all they talked about outside of baseball and apple TV plus and a new green color option
for the iPhone 13 and 13 pro. There are a few things
we did pick up on though. First, they came out and said that the Mac studio is not the Apple Silicon
refreshed the Mac Pro so that's still on the horizon. Second, they said that the Mac pro was the final Mac to make the transition and the 27 inch iMac like the iMac pro is now missing from Apple's product pages. In fact if you type 27 into the URL bar to try and force it you're redirected to the 24 inch pages set My guess is the M1 max iMac studio is taking the place of the 27 inch which makes sense looking at the performance
comparisons I get it just feels strange for apple to discontinue a long standing skew like that with no fanfare you know speaking of bailing with no fanfare we'll have all this stuff linked below and we are gonna be clicking
on those links ourselves cause we've got a lot of
apple hardware to purchase. So I'd better get cracking on this segue to our sponsor ting mobile. Thanks to ting mobile for
sponsoring today's video. Do you like saving money? Ting mobile is a low cost carrier with rates to help you do just that. Start with unlimited talk and text for $10 a month or data
plans for $15 a month. Their set 12 plan with 12 gigs
of data is only $35 a month and if you need it unlimited data plans
are $45 a month as well. You can even share your data on a family plan and save even more ting mobile also provides
pay per use plans with their flex plans
charging just $5 per gig. Even with those savings you'll still get nationwide
coverage and award support that made consumer
reports named ting mobile their number one carrier in America. Almost every phone on the market
will work with ting mobile and they have the perfect
plan for everybody no matter what your needs are check them out at linus.ting.com and receive a $25 credit today. (upbeat music) Thanks for watching guys maybe go check out a review of the M1 max Mac books
for a little preview of how the base Mac studio will perform. It's pretty good, but it's still evolving.