- For just $10, this tub of
goop can give you more FPS, or at least it can according to Computer Systems who made it. To put their claims to the test, we're gonna be removing
the stock thermal pads from an X17 and a 3090, applying this goop and reassembling it all to see how much improvement we can get. Is it worth what I'm sure
it will be a huge mess? I don't know, but I am sure I want to
tell you about our sponsor. - [Linus] GlassWire let's you see past and present network activity, detect malware on your
PC or Android device, and block its connections to prevent things from getting worse. Use offer code Linus to get
25% off at the link down below. (bouncy electronic music) - There are kind of two types of weird thermal things that we find. The first is someone realizes
gamers have a lot of money, and they want that money. And the second is someone
has a use case in industry and they find it after the
fact it's good for gamers. This fortunately is in the later group. K5-PRO came about because the
founders were just working at a computer repair shop. They were having a lot of issues with devices coming back to them, and they realized that a lot of the time the problems were just
old worn out thermal pads. A thermal pad is a specific thickness, like this one right
here is one millimeter. So they would have to go in, measure it, and if you get it wrong your
device overheats and it dies. Now, it just so happens that they also were
working at a university. So they did the thing you do
when you work in a university. The result of all of their R and D is this right here, K5-PRO. It's a goop instead of a pad, so they can just slop it in. And apparently it's way more conductive than a thermal pad as well, and can have performance gains in like something like this right here. Our test today is pretty simple. First, we're going to just run them stock, find out baseline numbers, then replace a thermal paste
with Thermal Grizzly Kryonaut. From there, we're gonna
tear it apart again. Replace the thermal pads
with K5-PRO and Kryonaut to find out basically
the maximum performance of these things with
their current coolers. We're going to use FurMark,
F1 2020, and 3DMark to hopefully give us
a good range of stuff. And I'm gonna go eat some lunch
and see you in 15 minutes. First round of tests are
nearly done, laptops all good. GPU still needs to run 3DMark once, but then we're totally good. We can look at our results here. The longer the FurMark goes, the GPU just slowly gets
slower and slower and slower. Are you excited for
tearing this laptop apart? - [David] Yeah. - Now, I was a bit of a dumdum and decided to use the Alienware X17. And like, I want do that
because it's really fast, and I like it as a laptop, but doing this was really stupid because the disassembly
process, it's not easy. This is not a simple laptop to take apart. Good job Alex, smart thinking. Everything that you need like SSDs, battery, RAM is all pretty easy to access. Cooler, not so much, it's
on the other side of this. Do you like taking laptops apart, David? - [David] Not even a little bit. - Not even a little.
- [David] I hate it. - Batter first. People always get really mad
at me when I don't do that. You might be wondering given
how much of a pain in the ass this is to disassemble,
why I choose to use it. The main reason is that most of our other really fast
laptops are from ASUS, and ASUS uses thermal paste on their VRMs instead of thermal pads, which
means switching it to K5-PRO isn't really gonna give
you much of a benefit. What do you think the chances are that there's a random cable on the bottom that I need to disconnect David? - [David] Pretty good. - Wow, okay. Wow, that's a lot of cooling. 17 CPU Perrier. So it looks like that we
have liquid metal on the CPU, but the GPU is just regular,
everyday thermal paste. So do we replace the liquid metal David? Kind of feel like we should. - [David] Okay, you do it. - Spread around liquid
metal, you piece of crap. Now we just have to put it back together and hope it all works. Here we go. Way to go, a little bit
of liquid metal on there. - [David] But that makes
it go faster, right? - Yeah. - Perfect, she works good. Now, we get to take apart a GPU. Oh, I really hope that ASUS
made this easy to disassemble. With them, it's normally kind
of a toss up with the GPUs. While we take apart the GPU,
let's get the laptop on the go. Initial looks, seems very close to stock. Oh, these are the guys
where we'll probably get a lot of benefit from it getting replaced. This screw is basically
stripped from the factory. That's gonna make
getting it back in a joy. Oh, I hate doing this so much. Oh no, ugh. One thing that's worth
noting is that on cards, and particularly motherboards, the really high end models
with really high end VRMs might benefit less from
K5-PRO than a lower end model because these right here
are probably very efficient and kept quite cool by
all of this heat sink. All right, GPU repaste was a success. Laptop also looks like
it's doing pretty good. Yeah, it's not even thermal
throttling on the CPU. So I guess our liquid metaling
is better than Alienware's. See you in another 30 minutes. My first impressions are it's
pretty much margin of error between the two thermal pastes. I mean, Dell did a great
job and so did ASUS. I'm not super surprised given that these are incredibly
high end devices. Now, the fun begins,
and off the second time. The cooler comes off. Get rid of these stupid
little thermal pads. One millimeter up to
about three millimeters, it still is a good. Above that what you want to do is have like a paste copper shim
and then paste again. Yeah, thermodynamics is frigging weird. I'm going to start just
applying this as we go. You cannot really have too much. Oh, this is making a mess. Although that's a good thing. If you have too much of it, it's going to squish
out and you'll be fine. If you don't have enough of
it, they'll have an air gap and your components are
going to overheat and die. The other benefit is that it can actually stop condensation from forming. Now, why should this stuff
be better than a thermal pad? This copper, although it
may look fairly smooth, on a microscopic level
there's a whole bunch of little hills and valleys and crap. And that's what your thermal
interface needs to get rid of. A thermal pad gets you about
60% contact on the surface. Whereas the K5-PRO is able to fill in 99% of all of those hills and valleys. - [Linus] Oh my God. - Beautiful, isn't it? One thing you might be
wondering looking at this is, how do you get rid of it? When I asked Computer Systems about it, they were kind of like,
"Why would you?" (laughter) It just works. It's incredibly stable, why
would you ever replace it? But apparently if you just
soak it in alcohol for a bit, you can wipe it off and it's not too bad. How much squished you expect David? Yeah, I'm hoping for a lot of squish. Oh, a bit of smoosh there. We're just protecting our components. I was expecting this to
be way grosser looking. We used under a tub of
the stuff for the laptop. Given we have a bunch of
two millimeter ones on here, we're gonna need quite a bit for this GPU. It's so goopy, oh geez. I will not let you down Computer Systems. It is really important on chips like this, that you cover the entire thing because there probably isn't
much temperature sensing besides maybe a single probe in this. So if you miss half of
it, it might overheat and not even know that it's
overheating and kill itself. They can't say I didn't use enough. Tub number three. Oh, I'm having a lot of fun, but this may be disturbing
to some viewers. Where would you rank this on like the tech gore you've seen David? - [David] 6 out of 10. - Now what we have to do is run the tests. This is going to be a bit more involved, figuring out if it worked or not, because it isn't a simple
look at temperature, it good. It's more like I have to go through all the frame times, organize it, and then we'll be able to
tell you if it worked or not. All right, it's the next morning and I've crunched the numbers. On the RTX 3090, the
results are very clear. The repaste got us more FPS,
17 more actually in FurMark. And the K5-PRO got us
an additional four FPS for a total gain of 21. This translates into
a 6.3 increase in FPS. And I've seen a lot of people go to a lot trouble than
this for less gains really. In F1 2020, it's a CPU bound game, so there was no change. As for the Alienware X17, if you want to repaste it, don't. It turns out they're
extra special element 31 that they talked about a whole bunch. Yeah, it kicks ass. So when we replaced it, our performance dropped
by seven FPS in FurMark. And in F1 2021, we lost three FPS. Fortunately, we were able
to make up some of that by adding the K5-PRO. So our losses were halved in FurMark, and an F1 2021, we saw an
incredible gain of one FPS. Meaning that having your VRMs
better cooled on these laptops can make up for worst CPU temperatures. So am I going to put K5-PRO on everything? Well, the impressive part of this is that the K5-PRO was able to
give us performance gains in brand new devices and
brand new thermal pads. If your laptop or GPU is
around two or three years old, and you're already planning a repaste, I think including a tub of this
stuff makes a lot of sense. I'm probably gonna order a bulk jar, so I don't have to use
the stupid thermal pads that come with water blocks
and cut them and stuff. Also, applying it's pretty fun, I like the dirtiness of it. - Thanks FreshBooks for
sponsoring today's video. FreshBooks is the easy to
use accounting software that helps you do your business. You can impress your clients with professional looking invoices that detail the work you've done. You can use automated payment reminders if invoices get past due. You can easily track expenses
and use their time tracker to log every minute of billable hours so you don't have to think about it later. And you can keep everyone on the same page with their projects feature, which makes it easy
for clients, your team, and contractors to collaborate,
share files, and comment. Choose a plan that's right for you and start your free trial of
FreshBooks for 30 days today. No credit card required
at freshbooks.com/linus. - If you enjoyed watching this video, maybe you watch the one where
we water cooled the Area-51m. That was brutal.