We're going to talk about magic squares of 
squares. So first thing we're going to do is   uh talk about what a magic square is. We're going 
to start with a 3x3 grid; we're going   to have 8, 1, 6, 3, 5 and a 7 and 4, 9, 2. So   this is a 3x3 array of numbers and 
what's incredible here is that if you add the   numbers down the columns - so like 8 plus 3
plus 4 - you're gonna get 15. You're gonna   get 15 no matter what column you add down. Or if 
you look at the rows and if you add those up then   you also get 15, so all the rows add up to 15 and 
also the two diagonals. So the principal diagonal,   - so this is 5 plus 2 is 7, plus 8
is 15 - and then if you look at the other   diagonal so 4 plus 6 is 10 plus 5 is 15. So 
everything adds up to 15; so columns, rows and   the two diagonals add up to 15. That's a perfect, 
pure magic square. In fact this is the earliest of   you know up to some sort of rearrangement of the 
of the numbers; it's uh it's the earliest known uh   recorded magic square. It's usually called the the 
Lo Shu. There's records of it from about 2200 BC.  The Chinese tradition has it that the Emperor Yu 
uh saw this magic square on the back of a turtle,   it's a sort of beautiful story.
- (Brady: I know there are 
lots of other magic squares, we're going to talk)  (about them shortly; is a magic square still 
a magic square if any number is repeated? Or is)   (that kind of imperfect?)
- I- so I would argue that 
those are imperfect magic squares. And and in   fact that's that's kind of what makes it hard 
I think to to find magic squares. If you allow   repetitions, you know you you can really find magic 
squares quite easily right? I could just repeat   all the numbers here, right, just take your 
favorite number, -19, I'd think it would   be 9 but 9 is not prime so it's 19. So if I 
put 19 everywhere in these nine entries I'll just   get a magic square that way but it feels like 
it's not it's not a real magic square. It feels   like a fake magic square. So what I want to do is 
look at 3x3 magic squares but I want to   impose one more condition, which is that I want the 
entries themselves to be the squares of numbers.  So I'm going to draw for you an example of this 
and it'll be a bit of a cheat; people who've been   seeing Numberphile videos for a while are going to 
recognize this. So this is 29 squared, 1 squared, 47   squared, 41 squared, 37 squared, 1 squared, 23 squared, 
41 squared, and 29 squared. And this is a very famous   magic square and it was made famous by Numberphile; so this is the the Parker Square.
- So I'm not   calling it The Parker Square.
- (Matt, you know what this video is called?)
- I'm calling it- oh for crying out loud... (This was famously Matt's attempt at all squares?)
- That's right, that's right. It's a very good   attempt. I think this this is a very reasonable uh 
attempt; in fact it it complies with almost all the   requirements of of a of a magic square of squares, 
right? So every single entry is a square number, right, uh and it's it's true that if you add up 
all the rows and all the columns and if you add   up the two diagonals it all adds up to the same 
number so it satisfies the main requirements for   being a magic square.
- (Doesn't- doesn't one of the diagonals fail?)
- Wait sorry can we check that? This diagonal here works; this diagonal here doesn't work. 
- One of the diagonals does not and so   in in that sense it's not quite a magic square of 
squares, it's what people tend to call a semi-magic   square. And there's some repetitions of the 
entries; so for example you see the two 1s   here, you see a couple of 29s, a couple of 41s; and 
so it sort of feels like it's it's cheating just   a little bit. But it's a really good attempt okay, 
so so you know it's it's a good starting point.   You know when you- sometimes in math when you can't 
solve a really difficult problem you try to solve   a simpler problem, you know, and and making some of 
these- allowing some of these entries to be uh the   same as a way of trying to simplify the problem 
that- in a way that might some interesting   mathematics as well.
- (Okay Parker Square, good attempt.)
- Yes. Okay so there are there are   a couple of other uh squares that I want to show 
you because- so so as we saw in the Parker Square   there's just a couple of things that aren't quite 
right, and there are some really famous ones, these   are sort of from the late 90s. So one of them is 
called the Bremner Square, okay this is a big one.   Okay so this is another attempt at a magic square 
of squares and it's it's very good in sort of a   different way from the Parker Square. This time 
you'll notice almost immediately that there's two   entries that are not squares; that's where this fails-
- (That feels like an even more fundamental)  (failure to me. Are they close to being squares?)
- Ah I- not really I don't think. It is a little bit   sad that they're not they're not really squares. 
But you know what does- what is true here though is   that the columns and the rows and both diagonals 
add up to the same thing. So somehow we managed   to at least preserve that property but then we 
broke the squares. We do have distinct entries; so   you know you're sort of- you feel like you're 
making progress. I mean it'd be you know cool   to have one that had like eight squares, you 
know, and maybe only one that's not a square.   I don't know of one and I'm not sure if one has 
been found yet. There's another square consisting   of square entries which is almost a magic 
square, it's a semi magic square, it's by Sallows. And in a sense it's sort of a an improvement 
on the Parker Square in that all the entries   are distinct; however just like with the Parker 
Square, one of the diagonals doesn't add up to   the same number that all the others add up to.
- (That feels like one of the best attempts so far doesn't it?) That's right yes. In fact it's it's really 
nice that if you just remove one of the conditions   then you really can find them. It's it's a it's 
a very difficult problem precisely because of   how all of the conditions come together.
- (Of course this is a fundamental question here - does one exist?) (Has anyone ever found a magic square of squares?) 
- As far as I know no. It's it's really sad and in fact   what I want to do today is try to convince you 
that there probably isn't one, okay? So I know   that's sort of a sad thing to say; uh I would 
love for there to be a magic square of squares,   um but but I think sort of of geometry is giving 
us a bunch of indications that this just might not   be the case. And so in fact what geometry suggests 
is that if there is a magic square of squares it's   going to be really really difficult to find and it's 
sort of be beyond what we can do by just sort of   like trying small things.
- (This doesn't look like geometry to me)
- Right! Right! Oh my God yes, thank   you for that question yeah. Let me try to show you 
where the geometry at least starts coming up, let's   do it. So we're trying to find nine numbers, each 
of them a square and so I need to give them names.   I'll call them X1 squared and X2 squared and X3 
squared and so on. What we're hoping for is nine   distinct positive integers, X1 through X9, um that I 
can put into uh one of these 3x3 grids   in such a way that the the rows, the columns, and 
the two diagonals add up to the same number. And   so I can actually write out what those conditions 
are in terms of just algebra right?
- (Like a jig-)   (monster equation like?)
- Yeah it's going to be a set 
of monster equations in fact. So let me show you; so   for example I need to know that the first row is 
equal to the sum of the elements of the first row   is equal to the sum of the elements in the second 
row so I can just write out this monster equation.  Okay? I also need the same two sums to equal the 
sum of the third row; so I can write another equal   sign here. This all has to be the same, okay. I also 
need to know that this sum is the same as the sum   of the two diagonals, so let me do those next. So 
there's X1 squared plus X5 squared plus X9 squared. And then the other diagonal, so it'll be 
X3 squared plus X5 squared plus X7 squared.   This is a bit messy but we still have to do the 
columns; so the first column will be X1 squared  plus X4 squared plus X7 squared, okay, and 
then I'll do the second column: X2 squared   plus X5 squared plus X8 squared. Okay, and I'm still 
missing the third column, okay. But here's something-   this is a really important observation: so once 
I know that all three rows add up to the same   number and the first two columns add up to the 
same number, that forces the last column to add   up to the same number as as all the previous uh 
rows and columns. And so this last thing is not a   condition that we need to sort of set out because 
it's already implied by all the other ones that   we have imposed. So this is sort of an important 
thing because it cuts down on the number of equal   signs that I've written, okay? So there's only 
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 equal signs. I don't need   one more equal sign to say that this is all equal 
to the sum of the last column; that's an important   geometric point. Okay so we have a mess here. So we 
have this like huge system of equations, okay, and   so I need to make sort of a few observations 
about the system of equations but what I want to   try to you soon is that it's going to be really 
difficult to try to solve this particular system   of equations with the extra requirements that all 
these X's are different; and this is really sort   of the important the important bit.
- (I feel like you don't have to make that argument to me.) (It already looks difficult but all right - more paper)
- Okay, sounds good yes. We have nine variables, and we have these   six equations. And so I wanna I wanna think of 
these nine variables as like a point in some   kind of space, and this space has to have room for 
this many coordinates, okay. So I want this to be   a point it's it looks like this is going to be a 
point in some kind of 9-dimensional space. You   know like usually we have like a 3-dimensional 
space that has like X, Y, and Z coordinates - there's   only three coordinates - here I'm going to need a 
space where I can write down 9 coordinates. Okay   so that looks like it could be a 9-dimensional 
space, but there's something really special about   the equations that we have that allow me to cut 
things down sort of by one dimension. Instead   of sort of- even though I'm going to write the my 
points using 9 coordinates, they're really sort   of only 8 dimensions that are in the works. 
In the same way that we talked about uh, you know,   some squares feel like you know they might be a 
little fake; there's a sense in which some squares,   even though they appear different, they feel like 
in our bones they're kind of the same okay. And   let me kind of show you that with something that's 
probably a little more familiar which is sort of   the Pythagorean triangles. This is a very famous 
triangle, the 3, 4, 5 triangle, and we have that 3   squared plus 4 squared is equal to 5 squared, 
right this is the Pythagorean relation; but   you know here's a- it's a different triangle but 
this is going to be a 6, 8, 10 triangle. And there's   something funny about this which is that, okay it's 
still true, so 6 squared plus 8 squared is   equal to 10 squared - but somhow these triangles 
don't really feel that different, it just feels   like I took this triangle and I just kind of 
scaled it up. In a sense the- you know, the triangles   literally are different, but they don't feel like 
a genuinely different triangle. It looks like it   just took the triangle I already knew and I scaled 
it up. And the same thing is going to happen with   things like magic squares; it doesn't even have to 
be magic squares of squares right? There's the Lo Shu and so I can just take the Lo Shu and just 
multiply everything by 2. So I'm going to put a   16 here, and a 2 there, and a 12 there, and a 6, and 
a 10, and a 14, and an 8, and then 18, and a 4, okay. And now everything adds up to 30 this time;
but that's not very surprising, I I just scaled   every single number by 2 and so you know the 
equations that give you a magic square, you know   it's just like multiplying those equations by 2 
and so this doesn't really feel like a genuinely   different magic square from the Lo Shu. In in a 
literal sense it is different but somehow it came   from the same mold. And so so that's really the 
important thing, is that that when we look at all   of these coordinates and I multiply them by 7,
when I look at my magic square of squares each one   of these entries will get multiplied by 49 because 
7 squared is 49, and so every single entry will get   multiplied by 49 and then it'll still be true that 
the rows and the columns on the two diagonals will   add up to the same. Any solution to this problem 
and I scale it up or down I could also just have   fractions instead in there, I'll still have 
a magic square of squares. So these solutions   have this very nice scaling property. And what 
that means is that even though you see sort of   nine coordinates you only really have about eight
degrees of freedom. So the reason that's important   is that- so the natural habitat for these equations 
is something like an 8-dimensional space. What do I mean by the habitat of an equation?
So let me just remind you, you know, if I if I   just worked in the usual plane where I had X and 
Y coordinates, so I had two coordinates I have two   dimensions, you know I can look at an equation like 
this x squared plus y squared equals 1. This   is one equation in this 2-dimensional space 
and it cuts out for us a circle of radius 1, x squared plus y squared equals 1. And so what 
we're doing here is something similar, it's just   much harder to visualize because I'm going to work 
in a space that technically has nine coordinates   but only really eight degrees of freedom; 
and inside that space I'm going to look at   the solutions of some big set of polynomials and 
this set of polynomials will carve out a geometric   shape just like x squared plus y squared equals 
1 carves out a geometric shape on the plane. It's   just that it's you know it's hard to visualize 
8-dimensional space. So I don't know how to   draw that here, but but the object is out there and it exists.
- (So not only is that impossible to)   (imagine the playing field, you also don't even 
know what the configuration of the players are)   Right, that's right yes, yes. So so we really 
have to sort of use use our imagination and   the algebra; this is sort of a really important 
idea that that we're we're sort of trying to do   some geometry but but when we can't visualize 
things sometimes the algebra is still there   and we can work with the algebra instead of the 
geometry. So we have this 8-dimensional space   um and if you look back at the set of of 
equations that we wrote, there are six equal signs.   And so each one of these equal times is putting a 
constraint on this 8-dimensional space. So you   start with this 8-dimensional space and then I 
put a constraint in it and so now what I'm holding   is probably a 7-dimensional thing. And then I 
put another constraint in it and so now these two   constraints have to be satisfied simultaneously 
and so the intersection is probably something   that's 6-dimensional. And I keep doing this, and 
if I have six constraints well okay I'm just, you   know, right 8 minus 6 is equal to 2. Once 
I sort of put all these constraints together   it looks like what I should have is some kind of 
surface, some kind of kind of 2-dimensional thing.   Each constraint is sort of cutting me down in one 
dimension; I started with eight degrees of freedom   and I've taken away six. And so um even though 
it's very hard to actually visualize something   like this it looks like it could be some kind of surface.
- (So there's some 2-dimensional surface)   (that would hold the key to everything?)
- Exactly this is exactly the point. There is out there   there is this sort of incredible - you know now 
I'll just do like a metaphor for it - there's this   2-dimensional surface and each point on that 
surface is going to have coordinates X1, X2, all   the way to X9, and this point encodes one of these 
magic squares of squares. Now what's important- (Has this surface got a name?)
- Uh no  - (Can I suggest one?) 
- What would you like to call it?
- (The Parker surface) That's awesome. All right, okay, let's call it the 
Parker surface. Yeah so so any point on the Parker   surface is going to give you a magic square 
of squares. Now this surface really is there,   I think one of the the things we have to realize 
is that that these X's could also be like not just   integers. Right we are looking for integers, we want 
integers, but but you know if I just sort of write   out these equations and I let X1 through X9 you 
know be more general numbers - mean like pi or e or   you know some something with an infinite decimal 
expansion that's random - um those are perfectly   good numbers too. And so what happens is that this 
square is there but almost every time you write   one of these points down on it there's at least 
one coordinate that's just not going to be an   integer or a fraction. And so so what we're really 
trying to do is- you know our job is to try to find   a point on the surface all of whose coordinates 
are integers and distinct, okay. And this is this   is where things get tricky, because inside this 
space right you can actually take something that   looks kind of like a plane and then it'll sort of 
cut the surface and this will be, for example, the   locus where like maybe two of the coordinates are 
the same. That could definitely happen and you know   things like the Parker Square, you know, have the 
property that some of of the entries are the same   and so for example it can be a point that happens 
to lie there. And this is the tragedy that we seem   to face is that on this surface every time we have 
a point that seems to give us a magic square of   squares these points tend to lie on these very 
special curves of the surface uh where you have   conditions like you know X1 is equal to X2 or 
X3 is equal to minus X7 or something like this. (Because when you first told me about the surface I 
thought maybe there'd be no points on the surface)   (where all all of them are integers; but there are 
some there so-)
- That's exactly right and and this   you you hit on something really important Brady 
which is that this is what makes this problem   really difficult is that that this surface really 
has points with integer coordinates; it's just that   we don't like the points that we see. There's also 
the one where you've set everything equal, just put   everything equal to 1, that's a perfectly good 
point on the surface. 3 is equal to 3 is equal   to 3 is equal to 3 is equal to 3 
is equal to 3 is equal to 3. That'll work. (This surface is obviously of infinite size?)
- Oh yeah yeah yeah there's there's lots and lots   of points on on the surface. So then this is what 
makes it hard, so so in in there's this area of   math called diophantine geometry that that tries 
to exactly solve this kind of problem where you   take a collection of polynomial equations like 
the ones that define the magic square of squares   and and they try to find integer solutions uh - or 
prove that there are no integer solutions other   than sort of you know a few obvious ones that we 
see but that we're not really interested in. The   same thing happens with Fermat's last theorem which 
is really aggravating. You know, Fermat's last theorem   has solutions right? You know 0 to the n plus 1 
to the n equals 1 to the n. So the Fermat equation   has solutions; what makes it really difficult is 
to show that there are no solutions other than   you know the solutions that contain at least one 
0, okay. And that's uh that that's a much more   difficult problem; in math we have all these you 
know a whole slew of techniques for showing that   systems of equations have no integer solutions 
whatsoever but that's not the case here. There   are integer solutions, so what we're trying to 
do is to show that there aren't solutions other   than the ones that we actually see and that's 
a much more difficult problem to solve.
- (You told) (me earlier that you've come to the conclusion that 
it's really unlikely that one of these exists. What)   (you have shown me so far has made me more hopeful 
that one exists.)
- Yes I understand; so so why why do   I think that one might not exist? Okay yeah- I I 
guess I need another sheet of paper.
- (More paper. Take away my hope!)  Okay so I'm gonna try to explain why I think 
that even though we have this huge surface worth   of points, all of which actually give you a magic 
square of squares, there's just no point where all   of the entries are integers and they're distinct. 
Why do these points even exist in the first place?   And and so this is a philosophical point but it's- 
you know, points that satisfy polynomial equations   that that are you know all integers are very very 
rare, they're sort of almost accidents of nature.   And and this is sort of something really important 
to bear in mind. So we know if instead of a surface   if we had a curve, curves come in sort of three 
flavors from the sort of integer arithmetic   point of view. The first one is called rational and 
in fact the circle that we were looking at before,   this is kind of a perfect example of a rational 
curve. What makes these curves themselves have lots   and lots of points that have either rational or 
integer coordinates. You know, here's here's already   a point in on the surface (0,1), if I sort of 
take the line that connects that point to some   number t on the real number line then I can do a 
little bit of analytic geometry and compute this   thing. You'll see that it's 2t squared divided 
by t squared plus one and then t squared minus   1 over t squared plus 1. This actually has to 
do with Pythagorean triples but that's a story   for a different day. What's important here you see 
is that if t is like an integer or some rational   number then these expressions are also going to 
be integers or fractions more generally. There's   heaps of rational numbers on the real line and 
so I just picked some rational number t and I do   this construction and it gives me a point on my 
curve that has a rational coordinate. So rational   curves have this like incredible property that 
the moment you have one point, okay I need I need   one point to get started, then I can use that 
one point to construct lots and lots and lots   of other points. Then there's elliptic curves; so 
elliptic curves sort of have this funny kind of   shape usually, they're defined by cubic polynomials.
Elliptic curves have this incredible thing that   you can add points on them, okay, so if I take Q and 
Q - okay this is not P plus Q but if I just sort of   reflect it down - I can call this P plus Q and this 
sort of crazy little construction that I just did   happens to actually sort of satisfy things like 
associativity which is something that, you know,   if I have three things you know I can move the 
parentheses around. So elliptic curves have this   crazy property that you can add points on them. And 
the reason that's important is because it allows   you to also create new points out of old points; so 
if I have an old point I can add it to itself for   example and then create a new point and then I can 
add that point to itself and create a new point. And so so elliptic curves have this also this 
property that that if I start with a point I can   propagate it. So rational curves are great, elliptic 
curves are great, in that you know you they can   come with lots of points. And then there's General 
type curves and those those are sort of- well   they're sort of more complicated but one thing 
that's amazing is that they always have finitely   many points with coordinates that are rational.
This this is a spectacular theorem from the early   80s, maybe 1982, it was proved by Faltings. And 
he he got the Fields medal for this theorem so this   this was sort of a big a big deal, it was called 
the Mordell conjecture back then and now it's   Falting's theorem. What we have is not a curve, 
okay, it is it is a surface but I'm telling you   this story because it actually plays a very key 
role in in our surface. So so when we have curves   they sort of come in three different flavors, two 
of those flavors have lots and lots of points and   one flavor does not. So what happens with with 
the surface that we were calling the the Parker   surface, right, is that as a consequence of some 
work that me and a couple of co-authors, Nils Bruin   and Jordan Thomas, were working on is we managed 
to show that on this surface right here there are   only finitely many curves of these two types. And 
this is this is really something that surprised us. (So a surface is full of curves? Made of curves?) 
- Exactly, exactly you can you can take a surface and   just like chop it up into lots of curves. And 
then you know if you're looking for points on-   that give you a magic square of squares, one thing 
you might try to do is instead of looking at the   whole surface just look at a curve inside that 
surface. And maybe you get lucky and maybe your   curve is one of these two types and then you can 
use what we know about these two types to actually   construct magic squares of squares. But the sad 
thing is that the surface that parametrizes magic   squares of squares, the Parker surface, has only 
finitely many of these rational or elliptic curves.   (It doesn't only need one?)
- It only needs one, you're 
right, but but here's the the crazy thing is   it has more than one; in fact this uh this Parker 
surface has 368 of these curves that that we know   of. So there's at least 368 of these rational or 
elliptic curves. The sad thing though is that the   way we've constructed these is that we we looked 
at slices like this, you know what happens if I   take X1 equal to X2 that gives me some kind of 
curve on the surface? And then either this curve   or you know the curve itself might break into a 
few pieces when I do the slicing. You know, those   individual curves are either rational or elliptic 
but they have this property that X1 is equal to X2   so so the 368 curves that we can find, they 
contain points but all of the points on these   curves are are going to give us these kind of 
fake magic squares which is really really sad.   Umm okay and so here's the final kicker though: 
there is a conjecture um so so Parker surface, so   this has finitely many finitely many rational and 
elliptic curves. So so our idea to try to use these   curves to produce points uh it isn't looking so 
good. Like I say this is, you know, some theorem that   came out of of work that that uh me and a couple 
of of co-authors were uh working on. And I mean it   was kind of neat, I mean we didn't expect that that 
we would be able to prove something about this   very specific surface. But now the kicker is that 
there's there's something called the the Lang-Vojta  conjecture - this is the the incredible thing. 
The surface that we have here is a particular   kind of surface, it's also called the general type 
surface, and Lang and Vojta sort of made a series   of very deep conjectures, but when you apply those 
conjectures to the surface what it says is that   outside of the rational and the elliptic curves 
there can be at most finitely many points on this   on the surface, who all of whose coordinates 
are integers, right. There's tons and tons of   points on the surface but there's only going to 
be finitely many points uh out- outside of of the   this nice locus of rational elliptic curves all 
of whose uh coordinates are going to be integers. There's finitely many- I'll call them rational 
points - outside the rational and elliptic curves.  So where does that leave us?
- (I get the feeling from 
talking to you, as soon as a search space becomes)   (finite you become very despondent and lose hope.) 
- Yes. It's finite because of this sort of general   conjecture but often finite can mean empty as 
well. And so so it's entirely possible that it's   not not just finite it's just isn't there, there 
just isn't a set of of points. So somehow the   moral of the story is that either we need to find 
some more of these rational or elliptic curves on   the surface, and hope for the best. There's only 
a finite supply of them so we're not- you know we   can't just keep trying this all the time; and 
and in fact you know we might actually get a   complete list at some point of all of these and 
then- you know, we really understand rational- you   know points on rational and elliptic curves, so once 
we have that finite list- final list we'll be   able to ascertain whether you know you get one of 
these magic squares of squares - at least sort of   from that point of view. Or the other hope is that 
well, you know, we do this and we find nothing but   somehow there's this miracle and and for some 
reason that we just don't understand there's a   couple, you know, one or of a few more sporadic 
points on the surface all of whose coordinates   are integers. But but everything we know about the 
geometry of surfaces and the geometry of curves   is really pointing to the idea that there just 
isn't a 3x3 magic square of squares   in the way that we would like it with distinct 
integer coordinates which is kind of sad. But I   want to end on a good note though, so okay I need 
one more piece of paper. So what I want to   show you is something that's kind of mind-boggling. 
So we've been asking for magic squares of squares   which were 3x3 grids that had this 
property that the the columns, the rows, and the   two diagonals added up to the same thing and all 
the entries were squares. Okay, but now you can do-   we can go for broke here- 
- (Got a 4x4 now?) 
- You got a 4x4 now, and this is kind of   amazing. Okay so this is a 4x4 magic square 
of squares. This is not a fake magic square   of squares, this is this is the real deal. Due to 
Euler around 1770, thereabouts. These magic squares of squares have a very long history; if you look 
here sort of all the rows, all the columns, and the   two diagonals add to the same number 8515. So this 
is kind of crazy, you know there's a 4x4 but there isn't a 3x3. Okay. And if you 
go on the internet you'll also find a 5x5; and a genuine one not a fake one, you know like 
we- and if you dig for it, you know there's also a   6x6 and so on. From the geometry point of 
view this is actually not too surprising; in fact   I would actually think it'd be really cool 
to show that that if you take an nxn grid   then - and n is at least 4 - then you can 
produce one of these magic squares of squares.   And so-
- (What happened when you kicked up- Because I 
thought if you applied- when you- I thought if you)   (applied that same process you just showed me 
to this you'd have the same problem. You'd come up)   (with a surface that was really constrained)
- Exactly, okay so what happened, right? So so let me just sort   of explain briefly that right. So if I have like 
an nxn grid right, that means that I'm going to   have something like what we did before. So this is 
n entries this way and n entries that way okay?   So if you have an nxn grid you have n rows, 
you have n columns, and you still only have two   diagonals okay; but now okay how many variables 
do you have? Well there's n times n so there's   n squared variables. So in the 3x3
case there were nine variables; in the 4x4 case there were sort of 16 entries. So if 
if you work on an nxn grid there's going to   be n squared variables. Okay so what- what has 
happened here is that the the space in which   we're working in, right, the number of coordinates 
that we're going to need is growing really fast   but but the number of conditions that we're trying 
to impose on that space is not growing anywhere   near as fast as as the space itself. So the space 
itself has dimension n squared - 1. And then   I have 2n + 2 things that I need to set equal to each other. 
- (So the Parker surface is no longer)   (2-dimensional?)
- Exactly, it's no longer 2-dimensional.
- (It's like a huge blob) Exactly, it's like a huge blob right? Right we go up one 
dimension to n equals uh 4 right, and now we're   in 15 dimensions. We've made roughly 8 cuts and 
so it's like a big blob, it's not a surface anymore.   (Parker blob)
- Yes that's right, the Parker blob in n dimensions.
And so the cool thing though is that these sort   of conjectures that we have about points on these 
blobs, right, it's not a surface anymore it's a much   bigger blob. And so things get harder and harder 
as these dimensions go up but but the the the main   point is that the the geometry of these spaces as 
the as n grows it actually becomes more positively   curved which means that it can barbor tons and 
tons of these kinds of rational and elliptic   curves. And so so in fact um for for blobs of this 
kind as n grows we actually suspect there are   lots and lots of points on those blobs. And so 
it's sort of not too surprising from the point   of view of geometry that you would find a 
4x4 magic square of squares. Or a 5x5, or a 6x6, you know. In fact it'd be really 
cool to prove that you can get an nxn for n at   least 4. 
- (Now do you know what would be cooler? It's 
finding some number out there, nxn squared, where)   (there isn't a solution again)
- Oh my God that would be amazing! - (By some freak occurrence)
- Yes that's right - and that   could happen, because you know in fact these spaces 
are very singular and so sort of the the notions   that we have about what ought to happen may or 
may not work in those spaces. I mean we sort of   think that probably it's going to be okay, but we 
don't really know. And and no one has really sort   of sat down to explore these these spaces. There's 
there's some really interesting mathematics; you   know at first it you know might seem like oh we're 
just having some fun with with squares but there's   some really deep geometry that's that's going 
on uh behind the scenes. And in fact I I can't   resist saying this but but this square that 
Euler uh came up with is is really important   in the proof that every integer is a sum of- every 
natural number is a sum of four squares. There's   a very famous theorem of Lagrange. In fact Euler 
sent this particular square to Lagrange with no   explanation about how he had constructed it, you 
know, and then Lagrange had to kind of work hard   and then you know Euler eventually did publish 
the method and then once Lagrange saw what Euler   was doing you know he was really able to complete 
his proof. But it's it's amazing to me that sort of   this that might seem just like pure fun actually 
ends up having some some really sort of deep   and interesting consequences. 
- (If you find all the finite curves on there, the rational and) (elliptic yeah and they don't throw up what 
you need, can you prove that there are those-)   (can you prove that there are none of those other 
points floating out there? Is that provable? Can)   (you say, yeah there aren't any points as well or 
are they always going to be a bit of an unknown?)   I- with with current mathematical technology I 
I would not know how to do that. And and I think   that that sort of- in general it would be great 
to have some kind of mechanism to do exactly   what you just asked. You know can- once I remove 
the rational and elliptic curves, you know can I find   this sort of hypothetical set of finite points? 
- (Parker points?)
- The Parker points if you want yes. Now look I know what you're thinking, 
what does Matt Parker himself think   about all this? Well wonder no more, we have 
a very special Matt Parker reacts video on   Numberphile2. There's a link on the 
screen and in the video description.