This is part two of a video about two candles in a 
cake, I imagine it will make more sense if you've   seen part one, so check out those links. Real 
cakes are not linear, unless they're Battenberg   cakes and then they've got a Battenberg- 
the linear thing and there's a tradition of   mathematical puzzles with Battenberg cakes; but 
anyway real cakes look more like this, this is a   nice lemon drizzle I appreciate your choice.
- (We did- by the way) (everyone,   we did buy a Battenberg. We did buy a 
Battenberg, we're not using this one.)  - We'll solve some other mathematical puzzles 
with that one or just eat it. I wanted to upgrade-   because the- like the original puzzle was twigs 
and you don't upgrade a twig to a two-dimensional   twig, so it's nice to comment that upgrading a 
puzzle purely for aesthetic things to set it as   a nice puzzle also had mathematical consequences. 
I've got to put a random candle and a random cut   on a two-dimensional surface and then suddenly 
it's less obvious to me how you put a candle   or a cut on a two-dimensional thing. Before I had 
many panics about this, I thought, I'll just run   a simulation rather than trying to solve it on a 
two-dimensional cake. So I got a GeoGebra file to   do a square cake. It was easier to draw before 
you criticise my model. In hindsight I'm going   to mention very carefully how I chose where the 
random things go, but I didn't think hard about it   at the start, I just picked a random x coordinate 
a random y coordinate for each of the candles and   for the cut I picked a random x and y and a random 
angle. That's definitely a random cut and I was   fine with that and I ran my simulation; which I 
haven't I haven't made it look particularly pretty   but if I do run it again it ends up converging 
to about a third again. And I was like, well,   what's really nice about the one dimensional 
one, it upgrades to a two dimensional one and   cakes work and this is this is just above a third 
at the moment but it's 0.3 something- fine. And I   went and did a talk about this at MathsJam annual 
weekend and everyone was nice about it we had nice   conversations. And in the back of my head I was 
like, this is a little mathematical bug saying   are you sure you know what you mean by random 
when you're in not just a uniform distribution?   And I wasn't sure and I didn't think about it 
because I was kind of naively lulled into a false   sense of security because the number was what 
I wanted. But it turns out there are other ways   to randomly assign a cut, and if this is sounding 
familiar with something I've alluded to earlier,  your conversation with Grant about Bertrand's 
paradox was precisely about pick a random cut   or chord on a circle. So forget the square cake, 
which we could go and do the model with again,   but let's upgrade to a real cake, definitely 
a circle and I've got to put the candles on   at random. And actually I'm happy enough that 
choosing a place for these to go at random is   actually doable, although you can do it in several 
methods and it's not obvious which one's best. Let's just spray points on like I did 
before, random x and random y coordinate,   and if they're outside the circle reject them. So 
we'll get a random point on the cake and that's a   good way of uniformly spreading the points out. 
But it's the cut that's a problem, because what   we're doing is randomly choosing a chord. Pick two 
random end points like this point and this point   that would define that cut, because any chord is 
defined by the two endpoints. Alternatively though   you could pick a random point in the circle, a 
bit like I did with a candle like this one, and   say that's the midpoint of a chord and any point 
uniquely defines a chord in that way. But it's a   different distribution of cuts and this is where 
you start getting into deep water. The nature of   random is not as simple as you want it to be,
go and watch Grant's video for a big discussion   about it. But what I did do was simulate the 
cake and candles cut problem with round cakes   and several different choices of how to do a 
random chord. I really enjoyed the conversation   you had with Grant because you were annoyed that 
it wasn't well defined and I think mathematicians   do have that sense of annoyance, you want things 
to be neat, but probability questions are often   more philosophical than we want them to 
be. So this is a video of me choosing   the two endpoints on the circumference and the 
orange trace is where the chords gone- I don't   know why I picked this colour scheme but I liked 
it and I ended up just mesmerized by the image.   The thing is the distribution is is maybe not what 
you expected, it's kind of clustering towards the   edges and the middle is slightly less sparse but 
it is quite uniform, so maybe this is arguably   a good way of getting uniform cuts. But there's 
another way of choosing the cut; it's not a third,   it's actually settling down to be about 0.16, 
that was after 10,000 attempts. So I believe this,   if you choose a cut by this method - which if 
we're gonna do it for real life the real context   would be like we'd put a spinner, we'd do a couple 
of spinners in the middle, and wherever it pointed   to we mark an end point and we cut there. It 
looks like we get- about 0.16 of the time we'd get   a candle on each piece. And that's not a third. 
It's not even close. Which kind of upsets me- (Brady: It's almost a half of a third.)
- It's almost a half of a third.   Is it near to an eighth as well? But this is why 
the Monte Carlo methods and the simulations don't   give you that sort of theoretical- they confirm 
theory quite nicely but this time it means my   theoretical thing has just not matured enough to 
sort it out. And if you run different simulations,   here are just the pictures of what happens if you 
choose the cuts in different ways. So this cut is   where you choose a random midpoint for the chord, 
and you see it hardly ever cuts or just less often   cuts near the middle. And that's a good reason why 
we're getting different probabilities, this one   ends up being settling down to about 0.19. This 
one over here is choosing a random radial point,   so that's choosing some distance along a radius 
and there's some angle around the centre to   go and using that as the midpoint. Different 
distribution again. And this one's doing what I   did on my naive version of the square, a random 
point and random angle adding more randomness.   This one ends up to be 0.3, close to a third but 
not close enough. This one ends up being 0.325.   My main conclusion of this is that I don't know 
what's going on. And it's sometimes nice to be   mystified as a mathematician and realise that 
the real world of random distributions in two   dimensions, and in situations like Grant discusses 
in this video, is more complicated than you want   it to be. We need to be careful about probability. 
I think in summary though, what I liked about this   problem is that we took a basic twig, turned it 
into a cake problem, there's a nice lesson about   solving things in two ways but there's also 
deeper water. And you get a glimpse of how   mathematicians work, they start with a simple 
problem and you realise that you tweak one part   of the model and things get more complicated. Hey, 
that's where we get our fun out as mathematicians.  - (It wouldn't be super hard for 
one to do the mathematics of) (what the probabilities are once 
you decide your definition?)  - Correct. I mean-
- (You haven't done that?)   I just haven't done it yeah.
- (But the problem is,   which definition is truly random.)
- Yeah and that's the alarming thing,   it feels like surely that one of these is 
better, but it's not clear that it is. You   need to be precise about how you're modelling the 
real world because the real world is complicated.   (What's your what's your personal preference for 
what counts as the truly random cut of the cake?)   Let me answer that by the pictures. If you look 
at these it doesn't feel like this is distributing   cuts fairly, maybe what we call uniformly? It 
feels like a random method, and that's the random   midpoint. This one- they're subtly different, 
this one is clustering towards the edges a   little bit but not as much as this one; whereas 
this one feels like it's coloured in the circle.  And that was me picking a random point by some 
method and a random angle, and maybe that double   random application makes it look more uniform. It 
also backs me up and says it's roughly a third.  But I'm really aware you're saying that's 
the correct one because it's tempting to-   you want to believe the answers that you 
think are consistent and there's no guarantee   the reality works like that.
- (And who's to say that when you   cut a cake randomly into all 
the cuts there wouldn't be like)   (a little hole in the middle like?)
- And actually this is where probability   questions-
- (And maybe) (the knife would touch the 
middle less often when you-)  - It depends how you're going to randomly cut 
it. If you've got without- briefing people on   the complexities here, you just gave them a 
knife and a cake and said, right I want you to   repeatedly cut it at random, how would they do it? 
I think they'd hold it from one side and then just   like hack at it and we know actually that it's not 
going to be random, because it's all going to come   from probably this end point and we're going to 
be spinning around here. If they thought about it   maybe they'd do the double spinner approach and 
pick two end points but that feels like a lot   of work; or you get a - what do they call it - a 
lazy Susan? Put the cake on it, spin that round,   stop it and then go - If this was cranked up to 
about 90 miles an hour it would be a more random   demonstration of picking a random angle to cut. 
Shall I close my eyes and wait until I have no   idea where the candles? How long are we waiting?
- (Hang on I'll do a turn you haven't seen as   well just to random up a bit more.)
(All right let's see, there we go.)  - The lengths we go to for maths.
- (Go ahead.) If I slice this down and miss and just   break your turn table how's that gonna-?
- (Slice gently, make sure you hit the cake.)  Say when - when - we're done. Ah - we're 
between the candles! What are the chances?   Don't answer that.
- (Just, only just.)  - Yeah the the point candle 
model was nearly not sufficient. Now Ben's got a deep video, and I mean 
really deep, about how he visualised and   programmed some of this stuff on his own 
channel. If you'd like to check it out  well there'll be links on the screen, down 
in the description, all the usual places. And you might like to reflect on why that
is, but I really like- this is- I just really   like the way this looks. To be honest this is 
what I was going for in the entire video here.