- You think you know
everything about Windows? - Uh, yeah. - Well, think again, maggot. We got tips, hot tips, tech tips, 10 tips, for all you Windows power users out there. And we're not telling you
a thing until we tell you, MSI sponsored this video and we're going to be going through our tips
on their Summit E13 Flip Evo, their first laptop with
wifi 6E and up to 20 hours of battery life and their Crosshair 15 with up to 11th Gen
Intel Core i7 processors and RTX 3060 GPU's. (gentle music) (metal clanks) (upbeat music) Everyone knows at least one
or two keyboard shortcuts that they use all the time, but whenever you're watching
someone else use Windows, there's a good chance that
they'll use one that you don't. This resource, which we'll
have linked down below lists every Windows shortcut,
but we've got some favorites. Windows print screen saves directly to your screenshots folder. Windows E opens up File Explorer. Windows I opens the settings app, why the went with I we'll never know, but it's handy, and Windows Tab opens up task view, just to name a few. Did you know that instead
of control alt delete, you can press control
shift escape to directly open Task Manager without taking a detour to the lock screen? And did you know that you can
create new virtual desktops with Windows control D and then
swap between these desktops with Windows control and the arrow keys? Ah, that's actually tip number two, whether you lost your second monitor in that last round of budget cuts, or you just plain love
min-max in your productivity, multiple desktops are a game changer. In less than a second, I
can go from researching and writing up a report, to collaborating with my colleagues, to touching up some photos
for the company website, that beanie's looking
good Chase, lttstore.com. And of course, those who
work hard, usually play hard, am I right? So the second your lunch break
starts or any other break, bam, you are instantly
playing your favorite game, catching up on Reddit and chatting it up in your favorite Discord server. Note that the more applications
you want to keep open at a time though, the more
system memory you'll need. So for heavier users, I'd recommend the version
of the E13 Flip Evo with 32 gigs of LPDDR4x memory. Now let's customize our desktop, whether you like multiple
desktops or just one, I'm sure we can all agree
that it should look its best. Now decades ago, the in
thing was custom pointers and different sound themes
for your Windows alerts. And guess what? It's totally still a thing. Your pointer can change
size, color, and shape to just about anything and
Windows alerts can be swapped on a per type basis. So you will never again be confused about whether a USB device
was plugged in or removed. "Hello Linus, you are quite
good at plugging me in." Another handy feature for
the minimalists out there is the ability to hide
desktop icons and the task bar for that ultra clean look or to save your old LED
display from unsightly burn in. For those of you wanting an
even more custom experience, check out Rainmeter. It's a third-party app
that adds custom widgets like weather, clocks or usage meters, all in whatever style you can find, one that matches the
gaming aesthetics and RGB of the Crosshair 15 or
something more muted, if you prefer. You can even make one yourself. Speaking of making it yourself,
we made our own screwdriver. And once it's ready, we're going to have a
full video on the process, get subscribed so you don't miss it. If you want to customize a bit more, but you prefer to stay within
the Microsoft product suite, there are some really
cool add ons in PowerToys and Microsoft Garage. A lot of the functionality of FancyZones, which is one of my personal favorites, is built into Windows 11 now, but it still offers an
outstanding degree of control over the snapping functionality and appearance of your Windows. Awake is helpful if you
want to keep your power and sleep settings, but put them on pause for a little while, say to ensure that a render completes overnight and Keyboard Manager lets you make your own keyboard
shortcuts and remap keys. PowerRename is handy for
renaming files in bulk. And there are a few others
with more in the works. So be sure to check it out and choose the right PowerToy for you. Another handy tool,
particularly for those of you working from home with multiple computers, is Mouse Without Borders, which is available
through Microsoft Garage. With it, you can use the
same mouse and keyboard for up to four computers over your network and even copy text and drag
and drop files between them. Now that our desktop is
ready, let's talk pins. I can't count how many
tasks bars I've seen that are still using whatever
stock pins Windows comes with. Even ones they couldn't possibly use, this is prime real estate
guys for one click shortcuts to whatever apps used frequently. Chrome, Discord, Steam, Excel, anything you're pretty
much guaranteed to open after restarting your
PC, should be pinned, and don't feel limited to just
left clicking on those pins, many applications have
shortcuts in the context menu so that you can right click and launch Steam Big
Picture or Steam VR directly going from asleep to gaming in seconds. You can open recent Word documents, change your status on
Microsoft Teams, the works. Pinning is also super
handy in File Explorer. Quick access at the top
will keep your recent files and folders ready for you,
but for privacy reasons, I prefer to disable
this automatic behavior and create my own pins. It's particularly
useful, if you have a lot of different server paths
that you might have trouble remembering, go there once pin the folder and never search for it again. Also check this out. You can move them around
to your heart's content with a simple drag and drop. "But Linus," you might say, "I don't want all those icons cluttering up my pristine task bar. Can I just search for them?" Well, I've got good news
and I've got bad news. The good news is yes. The Windows 11 search
function is both accurate and responsive, I mean,
yes, this is a fast machine with a high-performance SSD, but still, finally PC
users are getting a taste of what Mac folks have been
enjoying for over 15 years with Spotlight. The bad news is that if
you're not on Windows 11, it's still terrible. It does work for many installed apps, so you can at least stay
clutter-free by searching for every app you want to open, but I've seen all kinds
of undesirable behavior. I mean, look at this, I
searched for Explorer, seems like an appropriate keyword
to bring up File Explorer, and it pulls up Microsoft
Edge, thanks, Windows, guess I'll use my hot key next time. It's also pretty bad for
anything file specific, offering useless web results, even when you've already
downloaded the file and it's sitting in your local drive. So be gone to the depths
of hell Windows 10 search, glory to Windows 11 search our new savior. Tip number seven. Your mouse has three buttons. Well, often more these days actually, but who's keeping track. These tips are for the main three. Let's start with the forgotten button that no one pays proper attention to. I mean, yes, we all know that
the middle wheel can scroll up and down, but it's also
got a click which is handy for opening and closing tabs
in third-party applications like Chrome and Firefox. Ooh, and here's one of
my personal favorites, left clicking File Explorer, if you already have a window open, just minimizes and maximizes
it over and over again, terrible, but middle click
and, bam, as many new instances of File Explorer as you could ever need. Now, most of you probably
use right click all the time, but did you know that you
can right click and drag to open up a context
menu in File Explorer? Take your zipped file for example. Right click on it, hold
that, drag it over here and extract directly to
where you've dragged to saving valuable fractions of a second. As for our trusty left
click, holding shift or alt while you left
click and drag will change how you're highlighting text, which can be particularly useful in Word or other text editors. You can also double
click to highlight a word and triple click to highlight
an entire paragraph, if you're in a hurry. Pro tip, by the way, modern
trackpads, like these ones, support these same interactions. One finger is left, two is right, three is middle click and if you swipe with all four fingers, you
can slide over to a second of your multiple desktops, now you know. Another area where Apple is killing it and Microsoft is catching
up, is phone integration, but at least there's progress. These days, you can
sync your Android phone to your PC so you can use
your favorite mobile apps and even send SMS messages and
make calls from your desktop. Making a to-do list in
notepad that you want to take with you, just transfer
it over before you get up and you're good to go, sort of, honestly, it's still kind of basic, but at least for those of us
who are pretty much tethered to our computers, it's nice to
finally be able to come home and put the phone down for the night. Now some folks might leave this out, but there is a lot more
to Task Manager these days than just processes and services, particularly the Performance tab. And while there are better
tools for monitoring this sort of thing, like Hardware Info, when you need to quickly check
if your memory is running at the right speed or
in dual channel mode, or you need a quick and dirty
look into your CPU usage and GPU usage, look no further. It's especially useful when you're trying to troubleshoot someone
else's PC without being able to remote in since just
about anyone and their dog can figure out how to open up Task Manager and navigate through its tabs. I mean, good luck trying
to get your grandma to install hardware info and parse this. It's even gotten more and
more useful over the years with the Users tab
introduced with Windows XP, and then that came in handy for me a lot. My mom always used to leave
crap open in her instance and my performance would suck, so I'd have to go in and check
and I'd see that, anyway, the Services tab showed
up in Windows Vista, and more recently we got GPU
usage, including temperatures, meaning that now anyone can
diagnose a thermal issue that is slowing down their games. Just whatever you do, make sure you hit the more details button that
they added with Windows 8. (grunts) Now I wouldn't really
know anything about this, but I can imagine that if I had friends, I might run into a situation
where their banking app isn't working, so they
need access to my computer. Well, fear not, it is easy to make what's known as a kiosk account for guests that only has access to a web browser. Just set up another account, go to account settings on admin
and set up assigned access. If you want to be extra careful, you can also encrypt your
own files by right clicking on the file or folder,
selecting properties, advanced, encrypt contents to secure data. Your key is tied to your
account password though, so this is really only
handy for multiple users, sharing a single PC. You can always hide files
and folders by the way for a little bit of extra stealth. But most people who are
going to be digging around probably already know
about show hidden files. On the other hand, if you're
forever alone, like many of us, this won't be a problem unless
your computer gets stolen. Speaking of which, backups, Windows's own integrated backup system, isn't the best. Acronis' solution, which
we made a sponsored video about recently, is absolutely better, but anything is better
than what most people do, which is nothing. Windows has an image backup function, that should be your foundation. It's just a bit of a pain to find, look in Control Panel, System
and Security, File History, and then click on the small bottom left
System Image Backup link, click Set Up Backup and
follow the instructions, either saving it to an
extra drive or elsewhere on your network. The best way to use this, is
to also have a third air gap or non network connected
copy of your OS and files on something like an external USB drive. So that way you will
basically never have to worry about ransomware or malware again. Another perfect example
of somehow progress also makes things worse, is
Microsoft's compulsive desire to hide useful features
that people shouldn't have to go digging around for, for example, the old Control Panel, from way back in the Windows Vista
days, is still around. It's just hidden under an All Control
Panel options dropdown that is really easy to miss. Now, most average users
shouldn't need most of the stuff that's in here,
but you're a power user. You needed new tools, power
option, storage spaces, and device manager. You need them all in one,
easy to find location. Speaking of stuff the
average user wouldn't need, another useful Windows
feature is the command prompt, but that's actually not the tip. Did you know that you
can change transparency with control shift, scroll wheel? It sure makes inputting
lines that you're copying from a website easy when you're working with limited screen space, like on one of these fine MSI laptops. Did I mention MSI sponsored this video? Thanks guys. We'll have affiliate
links to them down below. And one last thing about Windows, especially if you're a power user, it can end up getting a little confused. Maybe your USB port stopped working or your PC thinks your
camera's in use when it's not, whatever the case, don't be afraid to just back up your files and
run the included reset tool, a clean will fix just about any issue, and unlike the old days,
it doesn't require you to re-install your drivers,
re-register your product key or any of that junk. You know, what's not junk? This segue to our sponsor MSI. The experience of using Windows is great on a modern high performance
machine like one of these. For productivity, the Summit E13 Flip features unrivaled CPU computing ability in same class laptops. Seriously, up to 28 Watts
of power in this puppy. It's the first laptop
equipped with wifi 6E with up to 20 hours of battery life with its 70 watt hour battery. It's quiet, under 35
decibels in balanced mode to meet World Health
Organization noise guidelines, and it supports the MSI pen
with support for MPP 2.0 and it can work as a presentation remote. They've also got an MSI USBC
docking station to go with it. And for gaming, the
Crosshair 15 can be equipped with up to an 11th Gen Core
i7 processor and RTX 3060 GPU. It's got a brand new chassis design with a kind of tough titanium
gray metal styled shell to resemble weaponry. It's got their Cooler Boost
5 dedicated thermal solution with two fans and six heat pipes. And the heat pipes are thinner than ever, allowing it to fit in
this nice compact chasis. Want more tech tips,
maybe check out our video on "How Motherboards
Work, Turbo Nerd Edition," that suggestion alone is another
tech tip, free of charge.