- Holy crap! How is it that everything you touch turns to absolute garbage? I don't get it. It's 'Intel Extreme Tech
Upgrade' time again, and today I am not in charge. Taran has some very Taran rules for how this 'Extreme Tech
Upgrade' is going to go, including that we will only be filming in front of this wall and
in the room behind me, which I am not allowed
to walk into right now because he hasn't put a
blanket over the bookshelf yet. - I value my privacy. - That's good. And I value our sponsor. That's right, we're doing
a $5,000 tech makeover for Taran's apartment. Here we go. It's gonna be a little
cramped, but that's okay, I mean, you have at least
made yourself comfortable. - Oh yeah. There's no rules about not wearing pajamas in your own house, just in the office. - That's true. (upbeat music) - Careful, careful, don't- - Oh, there's cables going
through the door, I see. Is this a poor-man's version of my whole thing where I have my computer in a different room, so I
don't have to listen to-- - That's exactly what it is, but... Hey, hey, hey, hey careful. - No, no, I'm careful, I'm careful.
- It's vibrating. The problem is it just
gets so hot in that room during the summer, and I was like, "Well, let's just put the
computer in the other room, and then be able to run the
air conditioner in there," because I don't like
the idea of like heating and cooling the same
room with electricity. - Right, right, especially
with ill-gotten gains like this black and orange
painted graphics card that I painted. - I won that at the Christmas party. - Mm-hmm, see, I know
why Taran doesn't want us to film this place, because
then he'd have to show us all his other ill-gotten gains, but he never specified that
I'm not allowed to take things from the rest of the
apartment and bring them here. - Like what?
- Like, say for example, this MAXNOMIC chair that he
applied his corrosive ass to for the better part of six years. Or this Rad Power Bikes RadMini. - Hey, I'm doing you a favor 'cause this takes up so
much room in the warehouse. - You heard it here first, folks, if you're gonna take something from work, make sure it's really large.
- Mm-hmm. (chuckling) - This is far more cobbled together than I initially thought. - Yeah, and like there's no
room to put the panel back on, on the back, and like I hate
this case, I hate it so much. - This hard drive isn't
even plugged in, Taran. This one isn't either. - I know it's not because they vibrate
like crazy in this case, so I just only plug it
in when I really need it. What's with the what the (beeps) face? The case sucks. (Linus laughing) Linus, this is why I need the upgrade. - Why are you even using the front connectors-
- Because- - [Linus] Instead of the back? - I don't know, this is
more obviously visual, like sometimes I gotta swap it around. I'll have like one pair of
headphones that I talk into and another pair that I'm
actually using as headphones. - God gravy, my brain hurts already. - I just don't have a very good headphone.
- Haven't even gone in the room yet.
- I haven't even gotten into the room yet.
(Taran chuckles) Okay. So this will all be blurred because we're not allowed to
know what books you read, or? - These are my girlfriend's
books, actually. All of this is going to
be bleeped out. Nope. Oh, and also all of these
things need to be off the wall. I can't have you knowing my to-do list. - What are bed papers? - They were papers that were on my bed that needed to be sorted, okay? - I mean, are we allowed to at
least show the epic fan art? - [Taran] Yes. - And the monument to the
original Logitech G15? - [Taran] I have two of these.
Now you gave me another one. - Yeah, I know. Oh my God. I remember this computer. - [Taran] Yes. - Okay. There's a story here. I believe we upgraded what
was already your computer, or we gave you a new-
- No, you just straight up gave me this whole computer. - I gave you this computer. - Because when I started
editing NCIX Tech Tips videos, I did not have a computer
that worked for video editing. And I would do that for you remotely. And send over the like
finished Premier files but I couldn't edit even
720p on my old machine. - Were you technically
even an employee yet? - [Taran] No. I was just contract. - Crazy. This is definitely
the original power supply. I remember this being like a good enough to actually trust in a
deployment, but not good enough that I cared about giving
it away power supply. This case is another example of, yeah, I really just did not
care about this thing, so. - Yeah. But-
- GMC, man. - [Taran] You made a video
about manly dust cleaning, manly dust removal, remember? - [Linus] Oh, that's true. - [Taran] That's what this computer is in. - Because Terran had the
dustiest computer in the office. - [Taran] Yeah, you dusted it out and then you gave it to me. - Perfect.
- Yeah. - Oh, I recognize this Dell, too. - Yes. I bought that. This was like one of
the first monitors I had working for you 'cause it's 16 by 10. I really like the aspect ratio on it. It gets way too hot, though. - I remember you were very
particular about monitors. - 'Cause I want a lot of timeline space. - Only monitors, like
you're not super particular about anything else. - Well, no. - He actually has a custom
depth of desk at the office. - Yes 'cause I need to be
able to rest my arms on it. Also, I'm very particular about keyboards. Look Linus, it's another K95 RTV. - Taran, I was being-
- I have two of these. - I was being verbally ironic. - Oh, I did not pick
up on that. (chuckles) - And there's a towel on the desk. - Yeah, so that's my wrist-rest basically. And as you can see here-
- World's largest wrists. - Brandon, you wanna?
- Whoa! What the hell?
- As you can see... So this is IKEA and my
elbow is always here, so. - So you've got a shock absorber? - Over time, it has completely destroyed this table.
- Taran, how is it that everything you touch
turns to absolute garbage? I don't get it. I mean.... - I don't know. Nick Van Berkel says
I've got a sandpaper ass. - Brandon, how does it feel to be objectively the least eccentric of the original Linus
Media Group employees? - [Brandon] Pretty good. - This is my YouTube Silver Play button. - Oh, I see.
(Taran laughing) - U tube.
- It's a U tube. - I know for a fact you have a real one. - I do now, but I forgot to put it up. - So I'm gonna let you file that away. Why don't we have a look at-
- Put it with your bed papers. - [Linus] At what particular parts you picked out for your build? Did you get any help with this or is this all your own design? - [Taran] I had a lot of
help. They were very helpful. - Awesome. Who's they? - I don't know. Jake was helpful. - Cool. All right. So, new computer?
- Yeah. - New monitor and a NAS. - Yeah, so the desktop here is because this one is now trash. - Oh no. It might have
gotten bopped in shipping. - [Taran] Is it broken? Oh (beeps). - [Linus] Oh wait, hold on. It's just a little bit
of schmeer, I think. - [Taran] Okay. (sighs) The ultimate plan-
- The ultimate plan. - My dad is going to build me
a beautiful Douglas fir desk out of trees from our own property. - [Linus] Got it. - So this is actually a bit
of a temporary measure anyway. - Got it. Okay. You know what, I'm gonna
disconnect everything from the back of the computer. What?
- Hey, okay. Hey, let me turn it off first. - You know we're gonna have to, right? - I mean, why? - Because we're replacing it. - This old computer, I'm gonna keep it. We're not gonna deconstruct it at all. It's just gonna be my gaming computer now. - So you won't game on the new one? You're gonna have an RTX3070. Taran? - I don't play games that
require tons of GPU power. I play Civ VI and like chess. - You don't game on a 980
TI when you have an RTX3070. - [Taran] I do what I want. - Well I know, but... - It's nice to have a separation between work and play, Linus. - Holy crap?
- What? - It's smiling.
- (laughing) I know, I know. And listen, if this newest IKEA desktop also fails in this way, then I'm just never gonna
buy anything IKEA ever again. - I've said that so many times
and every time they get me. - (laughing) I know. I know.
- I always go back. - Yeah, I know, it's like
an abusive relationship. - I know.
- But this one's supposed to be really strong. They said it's really strong. - Mm-hmm. Yeah, sure.
- They wouldn't lie to me. - So what's with all the
googly guys everywhere? - [Taran] Those are fluffies. - I see that, but why do you have them? - Well, my girlfriend and I make these and then we hide them all over the house and then we gaslight
each other about them. - [Linus] Oh, I see. - Where did that come from? I don't know where that came from. - I think it's possible that
Taran found his soulmate. - [Taran] How do you not noticed
these all over the office? - I have that's... Oh, no, I haven't. - [Brandon] I actually have. - [Taran] They are all over the office and they are adorable. - Oh, okay. Okay. You've just got like SSDs in a bin, Taran. - [Taran] Yeah, I know. - The number of creatives,
and even in some cases small to medium-sized
studios that I've seen where they manage their
data exactly like this- - It's from the dollar store. - It's mind-blowing, and
NAS is a game changer. So for those of you who are doing this, pay close attention today. I found a pile of all your side panels.
- Yeah, thank you. I know that they're there. I keep accidentally kicking them. I like how huge that fan is by
the way. It's a good feature. - That's a big-ass fan. I'd like to jack up the desk while we're working on the machine. - Okay. - Oh gosh. Okay.
- No, this is a bad idea. We could have just put like
books under it or something. - We would have to censor the books. - [Taran] Yes we would. - Ow. (beeps) Ow. - This was a bad idea, Linus. - Oh, I got hit by a hard drive in the butt.
- Yeah, you did. You did. I would appreciate it if those
hadn't fallen off the table. - [Linus] If it helps at all, they were cushioned by my butt. - (grunts) I'm already stressed out. - Are you gonna build the computer? - No, you're gonna do it. - I'm gonna build the computer? How? Come on. - You're the computer guy. - When I do it, I break things. I breached three drives and I busted the- - Okay, I remember that.
- The motherboard. - I remember that. - I plugged in an old power
supply cable to those drives. Listen, guys, I've literally never seen it on Linus Tech Tips, but
you cannot use power cable from another power supply
with anything else. They only go with that one power supply, even if it's modular. - Which it isn't quite strictly true. - It might as well be. It's not worth risking y'all, your drive. - CableMod has an excellent
compatibility matrix on their website for
different power supply models and different cable series. - Yeah, I don't think I've
ever co-hosted with you. It's Taran Tech Tips today. - Well, why don't you tech-tip us why you chose Z690-Plus Wifi
D4 tough gaming from Asus? - I have no idea. Look, I still don't know very much about CPUs and motherboards. - Okay. That's fine.
- So just like whatever works for video editing is good enough. - This is great. It's got two-and-a-half gig
LAN, it's got 10-gigabit USB, it's got USB type C,
it's got built-in wifi in case you ever have a
situation where something happens and you gotta move it to the
other side of the apartment, don't wanna run a cable,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. With your 12th gen CPU, we
went with the Core i7 12700K. This is such a fricking great bang-for-the-buck CPU right now. - Should you be wearing one of these? - It's got a total of 12 cores. So yeah, we could do that. Sure, fine. - What can we connect it to? - Open up your power. We'll plug the power supply into the wall and then we'll connect this to that. And you would be crazy to
use your old rig for gaming once we have this thing set up, Taran. So now I'm just gonna clip this- - And that'll work?
- To some metal as long as we make sure that we kinda bite into
the paint a little bit. And I am grounded. I am one grounded boy. I mean-
- Now I'm grounded. - Why are your hands so clammy? - 'Cause it's a hot in here. - CPU's installed. Same procedures in the Intel platform from pretty much the last 10 years. Next thing we're gonna need is RAM. 3,200 megahertz C16, this is a 64-gig kit. two 32-gig sticks. - Yeah. I need a lot of gigs. - So the idea then is, I
guess you could go up to 128 on this motherboard without
actually swapping these out. Had you considered that, or? - No.
- Okay. - I mean... - Someone-
- Whoa! Linus! - Someone probably considered that. - Dude! - It's solid state. It's probably fine. - Did you scratch the motherboard? - You know what, the peel was still here. - My God. Unfortunately, it's still less likely that things will break if you do it. (Linus laughs) - For your boot SSD, you've got this 500-gig
P5 from Crucial. Yeah. - I won that from the Christmas party. - Solid choice. - Is that the new screwdriver? - Yeah. - Can I have one?
- Yeah, of course. Do you wanna check it out? - This is mine now. - It's not quite how that works, but. - [Taran] This was one of my
requests in with all the merch, like the pillow and stuff. - Oh really? Some of our biggest fans of LTT merch are actually people internally 'cause they have to see it
all the time internally, and if they don't have
one, it's like, "Oh." - Yeah, that's pretty sick. - Yep. So what case did you go for? - [Taran] I don't know. Let's find out. - [Linus] Ah, yes. - I just wanted something
that was easy-ish to build in, something with enough room so that the drives don't get in the way of the cable management
like on my old case, something with magnetic dust filters. - Look, Intel, I assure you
we're not cheating on you. Kyocera there is not a
co-sponsor of this series. The last three or four people in a row have just independently chosen this case. - I mean, they're not all good. My last case was Kyocera and
it's awful and I hate it. - Okay. Well, there you go. So I'll give you the side panels, put them in your side
panel pile probably, but. - Yay! My side panel pile. - Are you sure you
don't wanna help at all? - No, you do it. I don't wanna do it. I'm gonna break some (beeps). - You know what, actually
that can be your job, to break some stuff. - [Taran] I don't... what? - Here's the thing, the
reason I know this already is because the last three
people have used this case and also got a free EK
cooler at the Christmas party and there's a slight, whoops, there's a slight incompatibility. You're gonna have to make a modification, (Tran groans)
to the plastic clips for the front magnetic fan filter. - Oh, that's too bad. Okay. I'll use my (beeps)
cheese knife that I hate. - Why do you have a knife
specifically for (beeps) cheese? - No, no, the knife is (beeps). - [Taran] Oh, shut up. - I think Taran has the
most responsible build that I've seen so far. He's got a power supply that is over-spec, he's got a UPS to protect his system, he's got two hard drives because he's planning to run them in RAID 1 for a data redundancy, whereas I think a lot of the people so far have gone bleeding edge to try to get as much
performance as possible out of their setup. Instead, this is like the
responsible man's computer. - I don't like being on the bleeding edge because it's the bleeding edge and things are more likely to go wrong. I like tried and true, and responsible. So I might have cut my thumb a little bit. So it's just gonna kinda sit there? - Yeah. But then if-
- Magnetically kinda? - Yeah, but the front bezel will go on. - Okay.
- See? (Linus groans) - Yeah, I can't help but notice
you're not grounded anymore. Please.
- Oh, right. Yeah, sorry. - [Taran] Go. Whoa, whoa. Whoa! - [Linus] Well, that's a good catch. - [Taran] Oh my God. - Static is probably the
least of your concerns Mr. Corrosive Hands.
- What is? - Oh God, this is a very small room. You guys might wanna- - The window's already as
open as it's gonna get. - [Linus] Oh no. - [Brandon] Oh, oh God! - Oh, it's not great.
- No! Oh! I got a full whiff. No! Stop it. You're wafting it towards me. - [Taran] I need to, to get it out of your room.
- Stop! - Linus!
- What? - What? don't sit on that. I'll get you a chair. - What, you don't think EVGA makes well-packaged products?
- Get off of the box. - [Taran] Get off of my graphics card. - It's very comfortable. - [Taran] Get off. - It's like it deflects a little bit so it kind of accommodates the ass groove. - [Taran] Geez, man. Still smells in here. (Linus laughs) - These screws are longer
than the table is thick. - I don't have any other screws. - [Linus] Do you have any other wood? - [Taran] This is the only
other wood that I have. - [Linus] What is this? - [Taran] Try to guess what
this is supposed to be. - For trimming like-
- Hedges? - Like flower basket, hanging baskets. - Blackberries.
- Blackberries. - Yeah, you hang a bucket on the little eyeballs on the bottom. See, so you just you just
pull the little thingy and it just... It's very simple, but it
gets the blackberries. Hi, so I'm here, we're with Linus doing the 'Linus Tech Upgrade'
for Taran Intel upgrade and we need some screws. - Taran, I love your phone etiquette. - [Taran] Okay, I'm in the middle of something right now, Linus. - Sorry, I'm just building
a computer for you. - I'm just building a desk for me. - [Brandon] Then you screwed up? - Yeah.
- Get it? - Get it?
- Ah, ah. - Aha, aha, aha, aha. He's a dad now. - No, I'm not, not that I-
- I am! - Oh! - [Brandon] (laughs) Oh my God. - We're gonna go ahead and put the GPU in. Where'd my chair go? Wow. This is a beefy freaking card. - Yeah, it's-
- Did you go FTW? - I don't know. - FTW three Ultra. This is like one of the fastest 3070s on the flipping market. - Yeah, the more you get
to the bleeding edge, the more expense things get so I was like, if you can get just a little close to it, it's okay. - Yeah, this will run
Civ VI like a Dickens. - [Taran] Yeah, well,
it's not about the speed. - Don't forget that that's a 4K display. - [Taran] Yeah, it's pretty sweet. - Your games are about to get
a lot more demanding to run. - [Taran] Yeah, but I can just run them in a lower resolution. - But you wouldn't have
to, you have a 3070. - [Taran] Yeah, but
I'm saying if I didn't, it wouldn't matter. - But you have one. I'm trying to convince you not to use the other machine for gaming. It's so ridiculous. - [Taran] I'm a ridiculous person. - No, I know. But it- - What do you think about this whole thing of you should have a separate space for your play, and your
work, and your recreation? - Well, I haven't for years.
- What do you think about that? You have not? - And I haven't died yet. - [Taran] It's not about dying, it's about optimizing your life. And I just wanna give that a try. - I mean, I didn't like
having the office in my house. We did away with that
paradigm in about six months. But in terms of-
- Went into the garage. - Whether I use the same computer for playing a game or writing emails, that doesn't make any difference. - [Taran] Yeah, but writing
emails is one thing, editing entire videos is another. That's pretty loosey goosey right there. I don't know about that. - It's a really heavy card, dude. Giant vapor chamber.
- Yeah. I see that. - Triple fan, triple
slot cooling solution. This thing is chunk. - [Taran] Should I get like
a little thingy to hold it? - I mean you could, but it,
yeah, doesn't make a difference. - [Taran] Sure, I mean,
there's several millimeters of play there. Don't do that. Don't do that.
- We could probably get a whole centimeter if you want
- Don't do that. Stop! Will you (beeps) stop! - Can fit (bangs) so much gaming in here.
- Hey, hey, hey. - Look at that. All right. Let's (sighs) build the desk. Brandon, we're going for sky hook. Yes!
- Okay. Please stop. You are an agent of chaos. - You knew that when you invited me here. He didn't really invite me.
- Technically, I didn't. Yeah. - You have invited me, just not today. - I have. Not today. - Come to think of it,
it was only one time. - It was only the one time.
- Never been invited back. - That's right. Hang on. - [Linus] Look how
comfortable that would be for the people's elbow here? - I think this is too bendy. I'm already disappointed in this. - Wait, really? Oh, you're done. You're out on this desk? - Yeah, like even this one
is like actually solid. Like even though it's already curved, like it's solid when you push on it, see? - Bear in mind because they're
screwed in this far apart, that will actually change the-
- Hello. - Why do I even talk? You can't show anything in Taran's place, but I wanna make one of the googly-eye things
and stash it somewhere so that they'll both think that the other is gaslighting the other. Just eyes on here. Hey, look, there's his silver button. Okay, I'm gonna glue it
to the bottom of a stool. Oh shit, shit. - We have screws. - Oh, fantastic. - Do you have a measuring tape? - I have a sort of a
(beeps) measuring tape. - [Linus] Cool. - Whoa, whoa, whoa! - [Linus] What just happened? - [Brandon] Taran made everything fall. - Oh, I'm glad it wasn't me. - Just take that. Take that. Just blur everything. - (electric screwdriver whirring) Woo! This boy goes. - All right. We're gonna see how wobbly
this table is in a minute. - Are you wearing a headlamp? - Yeah, yeah. I put it on. I was looking for the drill
and I needed some light. I don't know. I don't need it. (gentle music) Oh man. It's so bouncy.
(grunts and gibbers) This is basically what I
built the entire thing around. I need a monitor that is big enough so that I can use 100%
UI scaling in Windows rather than 150 or 125
'cause so many programs are so terrible with their own UI scaling that it's just so much better to just keep everything at
100 and then go from there. But also it has an SRGB
mode that I can just turn on and I know that all my of colors are gonna be pretty much correct. And it's hardware
calibration, not software. I did a lot of work to figure out the exact right monitor
to get for what I need, and this is the one, it is
the king of the 43-inch class. - So if this monitor sucks, keep your little comment to
yourself because Taran likes it. And if he's happy, then I'm happy. The calibration report from the factory. - Okay, okay. SRGB monitor. They line up perfectly.
- Oh, good. - That's all I ever wanted. - Why did you just throw
that at the monitor? - Oh, sorry. See, this is the biggest desk I could find before they started
becoming dining-room tables. (Linus and Taran laughing) - Yes, carry on.
- So there's not enough room for the Wacom 22 HD. Like, I want this to be able to just be like this all the time, rather than being kind of stored away. - [Brandon] You should put that on an arm. - Like on there, because
otherwise I don't use it as much when it's just like this. - Oh. Dang it!
- Whoa, hey! Linus, I turn around for two seconds and you're dropping things.
- Well, no, it's just that- (Taran gibbers) - Cut me off, you cut me off. - The test report thing slipped out from between my hands.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah. Excuses. - Step one, when you get a UPS, make sure the battery
is actually connected. - [Taran] Oh no. - So, no, no, no, it's
normal, it's normal. They don't want them connected in transit 'cause then they'll drain too much. - So if I plug it in without
the battery connected, it'll still work. - It'll be a surge protector but not a UPS.
- Interesting. - And all you gotta do is-
- Oh, like a car battery? - Take this out. Yeah.
- Wow. - And then you just plug
this bad boy into here. Yep, like that. - Okay. More peripherals. - Ooh, Stream Deck XL.
- Stream Deck XL. - [Linus] The deluxe-est. - I really like them. I
have two at the office. I kinda wanted two, but it just
wasn't quite in the budget. - What's this? This looks like
some kinda audio interface. - Yeah! So... - EVO 4, makes recording easy.
- Linus, be careful. There's a fluffy in there.
- Really, Taran? - Where did that come from?
- I don't know. - Where did these come from? - (grunts) Thank you. - We, the editors, have
EVO 8s on our desks, so I don't need the eight
'cause I don't need all... like I don't need twice
the ports and stuff. So the Four is enough for me. And then the headphones.
- Ooh. - These were not cheap. - Closed back? - Closed back.
- You're at home. Why do you need close back at home? - I really like silence.
- Okay. - I think they're 500 bucks, like they're not cheap,
but they are really sweet. - [Linus] Is that carbon fiber? - [Taran] Maybe. - [Linus] Damn, Daniel. - So I tried every chair
in the office, basically, and this is the one that fits me best. - Taran's on team MAXNOMIC with me. A lot of people complained about them. - Yeah, I like the MAXNOMIC. It's just-
- Secret Lab, it's very similar in build quality. - I think this is the ultimate chair. It even has a T for Taran on it. - [Linus] We need to build a NAS. - Oh yeah, the NAS, that's important. - Taran has been responsible here. He's gone with WD Red Plus drives. These are eight-terabyte drives. So that'll give him a total
of eight terabytes of storage because you're planning to use RAID 1. Is that correct, Taran?
- That is correct. - So that is full redundancy. In the event that one fails, the full data will be on the
second drive, easy to recover, but it should be noted
that RAID is redundancy and redundancy is not a backup. So if Taran really cares about his data, he should also have anything
important backed up offsite. We need to find out if
this computer works. Are you ready for the moment of truth? - I don't know if I'm
ready. You dropped it a lot. - Moment of truth. - Ooh.
- Woo! Look at that RGB, boys!
- Yeah, look at that. Computer keyboard's on.
- Oh, I love it. - It's actually kinda tastefully RGB. - [Taran] Because I didn't try at all. - [Linus] Okay. Perfect. So go right to AI Tweaker. - AI Tweaker.
- Yep. And press Enter for Overclock
Tuner and go to XMP1. - What does that do? - It sets your memory to the
default 3200 C16 profile. That's all it does.
- Why is that good? - So it's faster. - Why isn't it already that? - Because XMP is a only
sort of stock configuration. It's technically overclocking. - I don't wanna overclock.
It's not stable. - That's not real overclocking. - (grunts) I don't know what you mean. - F10, Enter. - Fine. - What?
(Taran laughs) - I don't remember making that account, but Windows requires an account. - Do you only have a 50-megabit service? - I don't know, Linus. Look, as long as it's enough to stream HD Netflix and
YouTube, it's enough for me. I don't need faster. - Yeah, but like this
NVIDIA driver download, is gonna take like freaking 10 minutes. - Why is it so huge? Also, I don't care. (vacuum machine whirring)
♪ Blah, blah, blah, blah ♪ ♪ Blah, blah, blah, blah ♪ ♪ Blah, blah, blah, blah ♪ - This is a very random
approach to vacuuming. I couldn't help noticing.
- I'm just getting the parts that are dirty. I didn't realize these
pillows came so flat, Linus. - Hm, your slow Internet
is going to be a... Taran? Did we do okay today, Brandon? - Yep.
- Taran managed to go from having a pretty big central monitor to having an absolutely enormous one. He's got more macro keys than ever before. Still tons of room for project bins and there's sort of space
for the Wacom tablet. His audio solution has
been dramatically upgraded and finally, all his data is safe thanks to his RAID 1 NAS. Not bad. Not bad. - [Taran] I'm very happy. - Thanks, Intel. This has been another 'Intel
Extreme Tech Upgrade'. You guys are gonna wanna check
out the whole freaking series because it's all awesome. My personal favorite so
far have gotta be Sarah's, Sarah's is really good. Well, what's your favorite? - I kinda have to go with Dennis. - Gotta go with Dennis.
Go check those out. See ya at the next one.
It's gonna be Brandon. - You did steal the fluffies? - All of them. - [Brandon] Nice. - I don't know what you're talking about. (Linus and Taran laughing)