- Before you tell us, this
is an incredibly stupid idea, trust us, we know, Alex did the math. - So according to Bernoulli's Equation going through this adapter right here (indistinct speech) - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, but none of that's important. What's important is that
we are going to use this two-and-a-half horsepower
gasoline powered pump to water cool A PC, and no matter how stupid it
is, you can't wait to see it. Just like you can't wait
to hear about our sponsor. KiwiCo. KiwiCo ships out crates that
contain hands-on projects for kids to help develop
their creative confidence and problem-solving skills. Learn more at the end of this video or at the link down below. - You cut me off before we
can get to the good part. This D5 pump has an
approximate flow velocity of 11 kilometers per hour. - Wow, that's actually a lot faster than I thought it would be. - Take a guess what it
will be with this pump. - I don't think I have to guess. I think you put it here. Oh, you didn't, you bastard. Holy crap, 1800 Watts. - Yeah, that's two and a half horsepower. - 50 kilometers an hour - 74.8. - Holy. We could conceivably be
talking about this thing, blowing the tubes off of our blocks then. - [Alex] Oh yeah, that's what
this entire setup is about. - [Linus] I love that
it's called power fist. This here is a pump for real men. And this is not just a pump. This is for transferring water, muffins. This thing could hold a column
of water 85 feet in the air. Use as intended, how little fun is that? Wow, this is the size of a
fricking lawnmower engine. - A lawnmower engine with a pump on it. - Now this ain't a pump, this is a pump. Now obviously we're
gonna need some adapters. And that's where this hardware that we probably paid way
too much money for comes in. Ahoy there, morons. How much did this a adapter,
to adapter, to adapter, to adapter cost us. - [Alex] I'm not sure, actually,
this was Jamie's solution. And I agree, it's not a bad solution. - Is this one of the ones where you mix the oil
in with the gas or... - No, you just put it in
here until it overflows. I am pretty sure these are gonna leak, but it doesn't really matter. We'll just tighten them until they don't. - I don't think it works that way. - Yeah, it does, they're NPT? - What is this? - I think it might be
compressed air fitting. - Yeah. Oh wow, that's got a
greater inner diameter but it's also going straight
from fricking here to that. I juggle and the last one
left in my hands we use. - Okay. - Okay. We use this one. - Okay, cool. - Ha ha, you did it. You brought an adjustable wrench. - This is a perfectly fine time
to use an adjustable wrench. - Yeah, it is. - You can round these and
it's not really a problem. - Holy crap, is this it? We just hook it up and go - Well, we need the suction side. - And a professional sucker
always brings his hose. - It's long.
- And ribbed. My pasty nerd skin cannot take the sun, especially after wintering for six months. Check this out. We got a big garbage pale because we figure that makes sense. There's a lot of gunk floating in it. - [Alex] Yeah, Jamie took
a filter through it as well and kind of cleaned it out. It didn't work very well. - The first thing we have
to do is just hook it up and go, right? - Oh yeah. - All right, let's put some gas in. I love this, this is
good safety right here. You should always have your
fuel stored a safe distance away from anything that could possibly spark. - Yeah, Jamie suggested that
we should get some gasoline on the hot exhaust that's right beside it. - No, he didn't. Ah yes, primed. Do we have a little like
pumpadoodle for priming it? I really don't know if this
is the way to prime it, Alex. - I watched a couple of YouTube videos and they said that this
is the way to do it. - Okay, priming means
getting the water from here to the actual inlet of the pump 'cause if you run this bad boy dry, you're not gonna like it no matter how much choke you apply. Okay, that almost never happens to me. (motor roars to life) Oh, hey, how you doing there buddy? - [Alex] So it's actually sucking it. This is really not a good way to do this. - Alex, for crying out loud. Here if I just help you
line it up, it'll be okay. - My hand slipped. - It did not. - Ah, okay, that's good. I feel like Charlie
Brown with the football getting back in there again. It's a dated reference. (pump motor roaring) - Woo ooh. Whoa. Sorry, I slipped, I slipped. (jovial classical music) - I'm not 100% sure that
this PC is going to... Well, it's already dead,
so it can't not survive. But you know, the
fittings that are in here I don't know if they're
gonna be up for the task. We do have these ones
from Alpha Cool that have little metal barbs in
them, that should be fine. But we only have those in
boot with this Sleeper PC, I don't know if I wanna
hook that up to this - But first the test
on the broken hardware. - Yeah. Oh that's leaking. - Whoa, oh shoot. - Maybe turn it off. - Yep, I got it, I got it. Holy bananas. - I might have just forgot a fit. Oh, that'll do it.
- Alex? Premo. - Turn it up a bit. - Wait, ah. Ah, it really seems like
it's not blowing that fast. Let's give her more juice. - Yeah, it seems like something wrong. - Something's leaking. Ah, dammit. - Sorry. - I just changed into dry clothes. I think there's just a ton
of pressure in the loop. - Yeah, it seems like a lot
of pressure and not a lot of- - Not a lot of flow.
- Yeah, it's weird. - And I think there's
something back here leaking or something. Is this radiator leaking? - [Alex] I think there is a
fitting on the bottom of it. - That's definitely where
it was coming out of. Okay, let's get that tightened down. Whoa, this just slipped off too. These compressions are not the
right size for this tubing. - I was hoping it would blow off when we turned the thing on. - Well, it did. You booby trapped it, which makes me wonder how often
he screws me over like that. Do you think we should
switch to our higher flow rate I.D. Barb over here? I kind of feel like we should. - Yeah, maybe.
- Let's do that. - What are you doing?
- What the crap. You see this play here? - [Alex] Oh yeah, that's kinda weird. - We didn't learn anything. There's a lot of vibration here. - [Alex] Oh, the thing fell out. - [Linus] This is going really well. - [Alex] Why is this so bad? - You know what, it's designed for a hose. Something that's supposed
to have a lip around it. I don't think the flow
rate's much faster anyway. - [Alex] No. - [Linus] We might as well
just go back to the other one. - Is that full bar? - No. (motor revs higher) Whoa. - [Alex] There we go. - [Linus] Why is there so little like- Ah (beep). What I'm doing right now is I
am using these quick connects at the bottom of the Bunta Sleeper PC. We're gonna connect our gasoline
powered pump to this loop. I was really excited about this moment but now that it's actually
time to pull the rip cord - This is my favorite PC I've ever built in the five years I've been here. - The D5 that's in here, the like normal computer
water cooling pump, is having absolutely no trouble pumping through our gas-powered pump, so we should disconnect that pump. - Yeah, I was thinking about that. I don't know if we can. - Really, Alex? - Like I know that you have
pretty small hands, but like- - Oh, balls. (pump bursts into life) I wanna see some real
good performance here. Let's do FurMark. - Let's also grab MSI Afterburner. We can probably over-clock it a bit. - I don't think that'll
be necessary, Alex. - [Alex] No, but this
is the shunt mod of GPU. We can pull 800 Watts. - God, it stinks. Where's the exhaust? Oh, I'm right next to it. At the lowest setting here, I'd
say our gas pump is actually not materially different from
a normal water cooling pump. Looking at the flow meter, she
ain't really doing that much. How's our GPU temps looking? - 42.8 degrees. - Okay, that's pretty low. Considering we're running
FurMark, a stress test. - How many Watts are we drawing? So about 600 Watts right now. This is a really good water block. - Well, maybe I should run
FurMark at a higher res. Ah, there we go, 370. - So it's a bit over 700 Watts - And we're up to 44 and a half degrees. The question that remains is,
by cranking this sucker up and increasing our flow rate
to the point we're at risk of blowing our tubes off our fittings. Will we get a performance benefit? Like me, do you feel as if your whole life led you to this moment? - Yes. - Okay, we're ready? - Yep. - Oh, jeez. What are we at? - We dropped one and a half degrees. - Yeah, I'm giving her more. Oh, that was it. Wow, it's really going though, hey. - [Alex] Yeah. - [Linus] 35 degrees on the
GPU is pretty impressive. - And I really wanna do a 3D mark. I gave it a little bit of an overclock. It should be stable, might not. We'll see. - This is next level, right? - Most people start gaming, their fans turn on a little
bit louder, restart gaming. We gotta give her more gas. Take that, dinosaurs. Look at 'em go, that's awesome, hey - Not really, we might be
able to overclock our pump. - [Linus] Wait, what? - [Alex] Oh, there we go. She's really going now. Oh, we're leaking a bit. All right, I think that's
coming from in the PC. - [Linus] What, this is terrifying. Oh my God, is it overheating? Is it smoking? - [Alex] It smells really bad. - [Linus] Whoa, whoa, okay. I think this may be the
stupidest thing we've ever done. - Yeah, probably. - We got our score. - [Alex] What's really impressive here, that graphic score is like 100 off of when I had the chiller hooked up to it - Really, that's fricking
crazy, we only hit 44. - [Alex] And it drew and maxed... - [Linus] About 760 Watts. - Yeah. - Unfreakinbelievable. I think that D5 pump might be dead. She's not moving, no signs of life. Wait, oh, she's trying something. Well, let's get the shut down. Oh heck yeah, I think she's back. - [Alex] Oh yeah, there we go. - That's awesome. You're all right. She's alive. A really important thing to
note about the performance we saw though, is that we
were using pre-cooled water. So we didn't have to deal
with all the extra heat that a gas-powered pump would
be dumping into our loop. We got all the benefit
of fast flowing water but none of the drawbacks. We, I think it goes without saying, wouldn't recommend this as a daily driver. KiwiCo is a monthly subscription
service to help introduce and make stem topics fun and
engaging for kids of all ages. They believe that if you start
learning small things today you can produce world
changing ideas tomorrow. Each crate is designed by experts and contains everything
you need to complete it and detailed kid-friendly instructions. That means you don't need
to run off to the store to get extra supplies
like glue or scissors. KiwiCo offers nine subscription lines, each catering to a different
age group and different topics, and the crate that we have here is at Kiwi level for
kids ages five to eight that looks at chemical
solutions in crystal formation. Another one is the tinker
level for your tweens and teens aged nine to 16 that explore
spool mechanics and toy design. KiwiCo is a great way to
keep kids occupied for hours, and they now ship to over
40 different countries. With KiwiCo, you're not just
teaching your kids to buy you're teaching them to build. So go to kiwico.com/ltt30 to
get 30% off your first month of any crate. Hope you guys enjoyed it. If you like this video,
maybe you'll like the time we hooked up an industrial
fan to a computer. - [Alex] Oh yeah, it was really dope. - That was a trip and a half too.