How many calendars are there? It turns
out just one and it's calculators of 1974! I mean come on if you had a
calendar with this in it why on earth would you ever need any other calendar? I
mean look at that. Awh. In that case I'm gonna look
specifically at how many calendars there are in the Gregorian calendar date
keeping system. And of course throughout history different countries and cultures
have had their own calendars and that continues to this very day. If you get a
phone and you look at the calendar setting... I'm now recording this at the
very end of 2018. 2019 comes next. If I go over into my general settings, not date
and time, but under that languages and region I can change the calendar. So
let's go Buddhist and now all of a sudden if we come back out to the
calendar it's the Year 2561. Maybe borrow a friend's phone change the calendar and then try to convince them that just woken up from a coma. Even
though there are other calendars the Gregorian calendar is the one used by
most countries and it's the one that the official ISO date keeping standards
are based upon. So I'm gonna look at the Gregorian calendar and see how many of
those there are. 14. There are, I mean that's the answer, there 14 different
options. Probably should've started with that. Sorry. Wow classic YouTube we got there
eventually. Could've just started watching here it turns out. So there are only seven
different days that the year can start with and it's either a leap year or it's
not that's it. 14 options every single year is one of
those so 2019 starts on a Tuesday not a leap year. 2020 starts on a Wednesday: is
a leap year. 14. Because 2019 starts on a Tuesday there's not a leap year you
can use any calendar from any other year which started on a Tuesday and wasn't a
leap year. Including 1985. Which is why I went and bought the culture club calendar from
1985. And this, this was.. ha, that is peak 80s right there. And this... and this is... That is not even a joke. Right, this is not
like someone making fun of the 80s later this was made in 1984 this was done
deadly seriously. And in the interest of balance I didn't just buy the culture
club I also got the scorpions. Here we are. More 1980s but in a very different
fashion. That's pretty... ok that's pretty 80s oh that's very 80s aha look at that
right so these start on a Tuesday not leap years and so I can use them
actually bought these in 2012 because 2013 started on a Tuesday it wasn't a
leap year so these were my calendars from 2013 and now I can reuse them in 2019
and likewise 2020 find any calendar which started on a Wednesday and was
leap year use it again. Confession time the calculators in 1974 I made this
myself because I thought I was hilarious This is my own calculator calendar made for my own personal use but 1974 also started on a Tuesday and wasn't a leap
year so I thought it'd be very funny to make a calendar which is based on 1974
but works in 2019 and the other problem with 2020 is because it's a leap year
those calendars are bit more rare they don't come up as often. So you need to go
back to 1992 if you want to get yourself a 2020 calendar. I mean that's pretty rad
and then you can save it until you get to 2048. The next time it would be used.
Because 2048 is as far from 2020 as 1992 is. Not rad. And when I was making my
calculators of 1974 calendar I did the actual like month grid myself I
generated these in Excel and I couldn't be bothered changing the length
depending on the month I thought it'd be funnier to have a set 7 by 5 grid and
then I put a 1 on whatever day in the week the month happens to start on it
then it just fills in the rest of it so you can see here March will start on a
Friday here that starts on a Monday right but then here I propagated all the way
through to 35 you've gotta know when to turn over to the next page and a lot of them
if they start later in the week.. where's one that's later in the week... here we go
this one doesn't start till Saturday and so I put zero and negative so you can
actually turn the page over early if you want start using the negative numbers of
the next month. And it made me realise that every single month there's only
seven options for each month apart from February so February can have two
different lengths and they can have seven different starting dates so it
gets fourteen again but otherwise every single month only has seven options for
that specific month across all months seven starting points there are four
different lengths of a month there are only 28 different possible months which
makes things like this make me very angry. Good luck everyone
this year December has five Mondays five Saturdays and five Sundays this happens
once every 823 yea.. No it doesn't! These things online really annoy me I I get
the argument they're just some harmless fun. But honestly, get a calendar and check. You can look up the month where this happens. All months that have more than
28 days will have five occurrences of a particular day within them and all the
months that are 31 days long like December is always gonna have three days
I don't why they change the order here but so Saturday Sunday Monday... if it
starts on the Saturday you're gonna have a bonus Saturday Sunday Monday on the end
that's going to happen every single time But yet this stuff gets passed around
and actually if you want some good ammunition for the next time you're
annoyed by something like this on the internet we can have a look at how long
it takes a Gregorian calendar to loop completely. If you take my list from
before of the types of year and set it going eventually it will loop, it will
perfectly repeat itself. I actually made this list in Excel putting in the
formula to work out leap years is kind of fun because if the year is multiple
of four it is a leap year unless it's a multiple of 100 then it's not unless
it's a multiple of 400 and then it is again and that means that the leap year
system in the Gregorian calendar repeats every 400 years and because 400 years
worth of days: it's 400 times 365 plus the extra 97 leap days, that total is a
multiple of seven: the day's repeat at exactly the same time that the leap years do and so every 400 years the Gregorian calendar perfectly loops back on itself.
So the day you're enjoying now is the same as the day 400 years ago and 400
years from now 2019 is a Tuesday non-leap year as was
1619 as will 2419. Although I appreciate there are some complications because like in different countries they switch
calendars at different times so if you go back into different calendar system
so in England in 1752 they switch calendar systems took out 13 days but
didn't change the order of the day so that breaks that going backwards and who
knows what's going to change going forwards but for now on this calendar
system nothing can happen less frequently than every 400 days that's
the longest you can go for any weird combination of days and dates that you
want it'll repeat at worst every 400 days it cannot, cannot be every 823 years.
I have no idea where that number originally came from if anyone can find
out and tell me where 823 years comes from I would love to hear it. Although
none of this factors in cultural or religious or personal days and some
people are thinking:well hang-on! Generic religious holiday that moves around that
doesn't loop every 400 years. You can't say calendars repeat ever 400 years,
those dates don't! And the thing is that changes for everyone. So when I made
calculators of 1974 I thought you know what I'm gonna fill in all the days that
are important to me. And so on the 31st of December 18 which is the zeroth I
turn twenty million minutes old so that is my 2 times 10 to the 7 minute
birthday. Straight after Christmas which you'll note I haven't bothered putting
in. Straight after that the 26th that is my 2,000 day
wedding anniversary and that's probably worth noting because my wife and I
celebrate every multiple of five hundred days because that makes more sense and I
better not forget that, that's a very important day that myself
and Lucie celebrate. And I would say there are probably as many different ways to
celebrate personal and special days in the calendar as there are people
celebrating those days. And so the calendar itself repeats every 400 years
but you can choose how every year is unique and special to you and I hope you
have a very fantastic unique and unnecessarily nerdy New Year.
Fun fact: while this is something I made for my own personal use and so you cannot buy it or
give it to anyone for Christmas you can give them my new book humble pi. Hear me out! Like, I'd really appreciate this. Because if you order it we have a bonus
gift we will actually give you two of the chapters now and a certificate
saying you bought it for someone so you can give it to them before Christmas the
book itself doesn't come out until the 7th of March 2019.. ooh I better mark
that in. The 7th of March 2019. However if you want to give it as a gift it's a bit
lame to say you're gonna get some generic book at a random date in the
future... here we go Thursday humble pi day. So
this way you can get them the certificate it says they're gonna get
the full thing they can get two chapters right now as an e-book so they can start
reading they don't have to wait until humble pi day the following year but on
that date they will actually get the book and if you order it through Maths
Gear it'll be a first edition hardback signed by me. If you order it through
Amazon you can still get the free gift I'll put a link to the website that
Penguin has very kindly made for me if you go there and put in your
confirmation number you get all the extra bonus stuff now and then Amazon
will ship it in the new year. Amazon is cheaper on Amazon if you get it from me
I sign it and I've paid my taxes... There you go. Just get it for everyone you
know that would be amazing and I really appreciate that. I mean that or of course go and get them 1985 Culture Club calendar for a whole year of this much
80s.