- I just heard Nvidia got a sick, a new GPU for us to play with. Well, what part of that is wrong? Do we not get it? Or is there no new GPU?
(somber music) - Yes. Wait, oh, this is the RTX
2060 relaunch, isn't it? - Yep. - But why? - Think if I now, do you
want to talk about it? - Yes I do. And I want to talk about our sponsor. MSI's new Meg Z690 Unified motherboard supports the
latest 12th gen Intel core CPUs up to 6666 mega per second DDR five memory and a stealthy black aesthetic. Check it out at the link below. (upbeat music) - Nvidia new old stock GPU uses the same core layout as the RTX 2060 super. But instead of that GPU's eight gigabyte memory configuration, they're bumping it up to 12 gigabytes of GDDR6. At first glance that might
sound like a decent upgrade, but there's more to the story than just the size of the frame buffer alone. The available memory bandwidth
is still being stifled by the original RTX 2060s, 192 BYD Bus. So in that respect, it's actually a step back
from the RTX 2060 super. That means this card should
perform somewhere between the OG 2060 and the super variant rather than surpassing them. Unless you have a specific need
for the extra video memory. - And you just might. To account for newer titles coming out with bigger and more varied assets Nvidia would have seen
fit to give the RTX 2060, some extra juice in the caboose; not to mention the marketing benefits. 12 gigs puts them on par with
AMD who has for some time been criticizing Nvidia's lower-end cards for their smaller frame buffers. If nothing else, at least it helps to ensure that anyone who's buying
one of these RTX 2060s, isn't stuck with all of the limitations of a three-year-old design. Obviously you're not going to be cranking the visuals on these cards, but you're also not going to be scrambling to upgrade
again in a year or so. Mm Maybe. - We'd love to verify that, but we certainly can't today. Not only has Nvidia canned
the founder's edition that they briefly listed on their website, but we didn't get a card to review. And they haven't been
talking to the press either; us included. As far as we could tell
this card was still a maybe on the horizon rumor
as recently as last week. There's two ways you could look at this. First, obviously we already know pretty much how the RTX 2060 performs. So reviews, aren't likely to
reveal anything mind blowing. Maybe they felt it wasn't worth bothering. The second is more troubling. As of writing, I have no
idea how much it costs. Each board partner is going
to have their own skews with their own pricing and Nvidia hasn't announced a baseline MSRP like they usually would. Instead opting for the cryptic, it's a premium product, So it'll be priced accordingly line. It could be that this card
will be very expensive. And they're trying to get out in front of a negative news cycle full
of inevitable comparisons to the 30 series launch MSRPs. - And to be fair to Nvidia, there's no real benefit to tech press and subsequently consumers yelling at them about how their MSRP doesn't exist, when it's inevitably higher
for most partner boards. Now we've talked at length
about why MSRP has been rising and why the MSRPs is that many GPUs originally launched at
are functionally extinct. But the TLDR is that it's a combination of the ongoing chip shortage, raw materials skyrocketing, and price thanks to COVID recovery, and speculation and just plain
and simple supply and demand. It's becoming more expensive
just to get the chips, let alone, put it all together and this cost isn't
going away anytime soon. Nvidia sells GPUs to everyone else so that they can eat that cost then. The partners don't have the luxury of selling loss leaders. - [Anthony] Oh, this is interesting. I just got a response from a Asus. Apparently they don't
know what the MSRP is yet. - I'd love to say that surprising, but I just don't think it is. - That Nvidia won't commit to a MSRP could be seen as a small mercy or another way of messing
with their partners. Whatever the case partners
won't have to do much to both everyone off and
sell all their stock at once. The fact of the matter is that both the RTX 2060s launched at 349 and the RTX 3060 that's supposed to replace it launched at 329. If the price ends up being
anything higher than that, r/hardware is going to lose their minds; whether it's justified or not. It feels like Nvidia is hanging
partners out to dry again. While they continue to enjoy
the positive perception of reasonable MSRP on their cards, their board partners
have no hope of matching with this release or any other, either in terms of price or performance. We'll have them linked down
below once they're available, but I'm not hopeful will be a good deal. - Though, as unpopular
as this take might be, it'll still be a bargain at
least at off the shelf prices compared to scalper RTX
2060 prices on eBay. I mean, look at this. They are regularly selling
for more than 500 to $600, depending on whether it's the
super variant of the card. And whoever bought this one
for over 800 U.S dollars, must've been pretty desperate. (upbeat music) The people buying these
scalped secondary market cards are the people who will benefit the most. They've clearly already accepted that they're going to have to
shell out flagship money for a less than flagship experience and more cards on the market means that there's less pressure for
these second hand GPUs. I mean it's really a win-win for consumers as far as I'm concerned. Just like our new Swacket
it on lttstore.com. Heavier than a sweater
and lighter than a jacket. Everyone wins. - Except not really. if Nvidia has been holding onto these GPUs because they couldn't
sell them before now, then this is more of a positive for them than for anyone else. And it means that these
GPUs have a finer quantity. - I don't think that's true. Nvidia would have sold
remaining stock for cheap or to a system integrator for pre-built or what have you before now. Remember the 7900 GTO? Those were basically 7900 GTX chips that were perfectly fine, but deprecated by the
outstanding 8800 series. Besides there's no way that
they'd have enough surplus to launch a whole new skew at this point, across their entire range of partners. 7900 GTO, as you might recall, was MSI and EVG exclusively
due to its limited quantities. Now Turing RTX 20 series. Was produced on TSMC is 12 nanometer node. And more likely what's
happening is Nvidia is utilizing otherwise idle production
because you got to remember guys, even though TSMC offers seven nanometer and five nanometer for
cutting edge products and is working on ramping three nanometer, they haven't necessarily
just taken their last gin old equipment and hocked it in a bin. Due to the large upfront investment, that kind of stuff ends up getting phased out very gradually. I mean, even AMD's flagship X70 chip set is still using 14 nanometer
because it's economical. So if no other GPUs are being produced on 12 nanometer right now, any new capacity that Nvidia gets out of those fabs is new capacity, as far as the GPU market is concerned. And I think they made the right call going with the RTX 2060
super cores as well because assuming that they're
going to be using the relatively small TU106 Die, they should be able to get
more good Die per way for than they would with something like a 2070 super redux or
something along those lines. - Okay. This is starting to make sense, except for the fact that
Nvidia is bundling these GPUs with 12 gigabytes of GDDR6. GDDR6 was a large part of
the production bottleneck that played both Nvidia and AMD through the 2020 and 2021
phases of this shortage. And I haven't found
any evidence to suggest that things are so much better, now that a relief skew like this can reliably use so much memory. 12 gigs at 192 bit means that we're looking at 616 gigabit Dies, the exact same layout of the RTX 3060. Well, this might have been done so partners could use
the same or similar PCBs. It means that this memory
is not going into RTX 3060 production or RPX 3050 production. Which is expected sometime in early 2022. Get subscribed so you
don't miss our coverage with that card when it launches. - I can only assume that
they have their reasons. Clearly Nvidia knows more
about supply chain management than we do at this point, or indeed than they did when they launched the 8800 series all those years ago. It did seem that around
summer of this year, demand for GDDR6 had fallen
in comparison with supply. So who knows, and on the
subject of lessons learned, it does say a lot about
the mature way that Nvidia is handling this by straight
up calling this card what it is 2060 12 Gig. Remember how Nvidia rebranded Fermi and then later Kepler
into two generations each? I mean, we got new GPUs with new names, but they were the same bloody thing. It's stupid that they have to get a gold star for calling a
spade a spade in this industry, but here we are. And as long as the logistics do work out, this is going to be a net
benefit to the overall availability of graphics cards
for at least a little while; which is good for everyone. - Just as long as long as we don't go back much further than this. I had a dream the other night that Nvidia re-released the GTX 780 and everyone (Linus laughs)
was happy about it. I mean, 28 nanometer,
is it even less utilized node these days, right? So... - I don't think that dreams
coming true anytime soon. Re-releasing an older GPU
is only remotely feasible because we are in such
desperate circumstances. And because the process node for that GPU is still in production and maybe not fully tapped by other industries. It certainly carries
with it some challenges. Like the fact that Nvidia might have to continue to support 20
series cards for much longer than they might have originally planned in order to maintain their reputation for industry leading
long-term driver support. This move then, requires
some lateral thinking on the part of both Nvidia
and prospective buyers. Hey, it's not going to be for everyone, but we live in interesting times and the market is clearly
there for this class of GPU. I just hope that the power
consumption per hash rate is not appealing enough
to make it appealing because I doubt they respond it for a light hash rate version. Just like I respond, telling
you about our sponsor. Jackery makes solar ready
portable power stations designed to improve outdoor life by providing power outdoors whenever and wherever you need it. There Explorer 1500 portable
power station has enough juice to keep all your devices
powered and connected. It's huge 1500 watt hour capacity and 1800 watt output rate allows up to seven devices plugged in simultaneously. It takes only four hours to
recharge up from zero to 80%. And you can check out the Explorer 1500 at the link down below and get 10% off with code LinusTechTips. Thanks for watching guys.
(upbeat music) Go check out our video on how I was right that you should have
built a PC back in 2019, but for all the wrong reasons. Yep, we all lost the game, but there's more info about the shortage and prices in there that might help to make some sense of
these troubled times.