Today I want to talk to you about the Inca and their amazing system of numbers. The largest civilisation in the Americas before the arrival of the Europeans. They peaked about the 16th century where the area covered by the Inca Empire started in Colombia in the north, went all the way down to sort of bits of Chile via Peru, Ecuador and Bolivia, all in the Andes so that's about several thousand miles but about 12 million people? So the Incas are really interesting because of the, we call them bronze age civilisations, they were the only one that didn't have certain important things which the other bronze age civilisations did. They didn't have a wheel, and you can maybe explain that because you know it's the Andes, wheels aren't going to help you get up a mountain. They also didn't have a writing system, but what they did have was this amazing system for recording numbers and they did this using knots on string. The system is called khipu or quipu -
sometimes it's q-u-i-p-u sometimes it's k-h-i-p-u; um I guess it's a it's a Quechua word. Quechua which, incidentally, is the indigenous American language still spoken by the largest number of people. There's about- I think about 10 million people speakers of Quechua and that was the language of the Incan Empire. Anyway, I have a quipu here; this quipu is a
replica of one that is in the American museum of natural history in New York. And quipus are bunches of strings - they've got knots on - but there is some kind of method to them. Often they were coloured strings, obviously this is um some kind of coloured line so not this type of string;
but they all had a primary cord, so that's the yellow one. So that's the cord that doesn't have any knots on it but all the other ones hang off it. 
It's like a massive kind of janitor's key ring. Often there were hundreds of strings, here I've only got five other strings; and you've got these red ones are the
strings with the knots on and the green one is a certain string that links this set of four. So you see the green one links the set of four and
the green one also has some knots on. And what I would like to do today is to explain to you how this works, but by replicating the original decipherment of quipu. So it was in the 16th century
that the um Incas were conquered by the Spanish and then knowledge, amongst Europeans, of how quipus worked was completely lost. And it was only rediscovered in 1912 because a maths teacher, a guy called Leslie Leland Locke - fantastically alliterative name. Leslie Leland Locke, maths teacher from Brooklyn, went to his local museum, the American museum of natural history; saw this very quipu and worked out from the
knots what it meant and how it worked. And so why don't we go through what he would have done. The first thing is, let's look at each bit of string. So when you look at the string you see that it seems to be that there are three positions and in each different position - here, here and here - there are certain knots. So what I'm going to do, I'm just going to write that out. I'm going to say string 1: we're gonna have position one, position two, position three. So this is the first one; so in position one we've got 1, position two we've got 3, in position three we've got 4. So already we get some kind of sense of what this might be, because all the numbers are quite low - actually not going above 6, which is kind of interesting. So that might be the first clue that something is going on here. And
now let's just put a line here and let's do the green string. So this is the green
string, this is the string that links them all together, so string five I guess - 1, 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8 actually so that's 8 first. Then there's a quite a big gap so that's zero. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 - and that's 5. So Brady, or maybe anyone watching this, already you've got this can you begin to
see what the knots might be recording? And what the relation might be between these four strings, the four red
ones, and the green one that links them together? It's actually very simple but if you didn't know it it's almost impossible, or it's very very difficult, to try and find out. That's the intellectual efforts required to decipher something, because you're not entirely sure what you're looking for. But I've made it in fact incredibly simple, because if you actually look here, let's add these ones up. 4, 6, 5 is 15, so 5 carry 1. 3, 6, 5, 5 is 19; with that 1
carry is 20 - put 2 there. 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 - 8. So Leslie Leland Locke realised that the answer was staring him in the face, it was nothing more complicated; that each string represents a single number, a single three digit number. So the one that has 1 in position one, 3 in position two and 4 in position three is actually 134 because position one is the hundreds position, two is the tens and position three is the
units. The Incas, you know, they had this massive
Empire, 10-12 million people. They had bureaucracy, bureaucracy requires numbers and statistics. So in a sense the quipus, which were used for um census information, for measurements, for money - um essentially was the gel that glued this entire Empire together. And what you would have- if you needed to record a number you put this three-digit number, or it could be longer if you needed more
digits, on each string. And if you wanted to add them up; to save adding them up you would join them with another string and that would be the sum. So this is incredibly efficient and in fact what they've done is they've kind
of invented the decimal system without realising it. What they hadn't done- there wasn't a zero knot so you had to realise there's a space there, so that could be quite confusing. But they know- they knew other things. So actually here I've done them all with the same knot, that's because I'm not very good at doing knots; the way the Incans did is that the last knots were always slightly different, there were slightly longer knots. And that's because a slightly longer knot was always units so, just say you had a piece of string that was- became detached or something; you could look at it and you think okay I know exactly the way this is gonna go,
I know to read it this goes units, tens,
hundreds; and so on. 
- (Brady: This doesn't seem like it) (would have been the hardest thing to) (figure out like, how could this be a) (mystery for so long?) Well it was figured out in 1912 so the whole studying these civilisations was not very developed. Also people were probably interested in other things about that society, and there weren't that many quipus that you could go and have a
look at. Some of the quipus had hundreds of strings. If you're going to be kind of pulling them apart it's quite hard to know where to look; but also why would you even think that it was arithmetic and numbers? Even to think that - it's much easier once you know that. It could be it could have been anything else, you could have thought, oh this is something that's going from 1 to the 3 to the 4; it's getting bigger. There are lots of other patterns that you can see. (Brady: It could have been jewellery 
or headwear) (or something.)
- Yeah, well I think people knew that from studying it, and obviously when they were conquered in the 16th century they didn't all die out, they kept on using it, bits and bobs, and also there were Spanish historians that came over and wrote about it and said, oh it's well known that they had a sort of counting number system which was based on these um strings and knots. But yeah, the proper decipherment was only made in 1912. There are about a thousand quipus around in museums and a lot is still not known about them. It could be the
case that some of them the knots actually represent phonetic elements. So one of the great mysteries that people who look at- Incaologists looking at today is, was the quipu more than just the Incas counting system but also some interesting new type of writing system? This episode was supported by Brilliant and its ever expanding collection of puzzles, problems and in-depth courses. Have a look at some of this from their scientific thinking course no wonder they call it Brilliant. It's interactive, it's clever, it's fun- it's like going to the gym for your brain but without all those sweaty changing rooms and stuff. By the way Brilliant doesn't have to be just for you, why not give Brilliant as a gift to a friend or family member? Young or old, who doesn't love upping their game and boosting their brain. Go to brilliant.org/numberphile for more. There's 20% off Brilliant's premium subscription if you use that url there on the screen, that gives you access to everything. And our thanks to Brilliant for continuing to support Numberphile. [Music] (Brady: Alex this was so fascinating,
where could) (I read about this?) If you want to know more about that, in my new book called the Language Lovers Puzzle Book I have a whole section on the quipu and on about the decipherment of it. In fact the book has lots of- you think it's just going to be about language but it's also about scientific language and mathematical notation and so you're going to learn about the history of mathematical notation also in this book. (Brady: I can't wait! I can't wait!) [Laughter] Christmas that's like- what a great Christmas present, eh?
- Yeah, especially in lockdown yeah.