- Have you ever thought about how so much gamer gear is expensive, but also kind of crap? Well, something I bet
you haven't thought about is that maybe the solution is to take some of the
most expensive gamer gear, like Asus' ROG lineup, and combine it with some of the less expensive things in
the world made by IKEA. That's right my friends, behind me is the entire Asus ROG X IKEA collection. Including everything from
ROG themed pegboard storage, to RGB lighting, to even this, the Asus ROG LÅNESPELARE pillow. And we are gonna be
determining once and for all, if it's more gamer or more not gamer. (Andy laughs) - And the video is
brought to you by Eaton. Thanks to Eaton for sponsoring this video. Eaton's 9PX lithium ion UPS features an extended battery life of eight to ten years and is network enabled for
easy set and forget deployment. Learn more at the end of this video or by using the link below. (plastic packaging crackling) You know what? Initial impressions. Pretty strong, I'm hopeful. - [Andy] Yeah, same actually. (energetic electronic music) - Man, they've got everything
in this collection. Mouse bungees, cup holders, cups to go in the cup holders, this weird, hand, thing. I'm gonna need some help. Fortunately I've got it. To make this go as fast as possible Alex and Serge will both be
contributing their considerable IKEA furniture building skills. I don't even know what
I'm looking at here. To be honest with you, I, beyond just hearing that
IKEA and Asus were collabing, I don't really know anything about this. What I suspect is that this
is a standing desk though, based on that there's a
controller here for it. Actually, rather than
build this right away, I want to see what else we've got. I'm going full bull in a China shop here, just kinda figuring out
what we're looking at. This seems to be the
tabletop for the desk. Alex, what have you got? - I got a chair. Gaming chair, actually. - Gaming chair. Heck yeah. - It's blue though. Most gaming stuff's black and red. - Especially Asus ROG gaming stuff. - Yeah, interesting. - Interesting. What's the devil is this supposed to be? What is this box? Why didn't you just
make it one inch taller? - [Sergiy] It's probably another chair. That's how the ol' IKEA
ships their stuff standard. - Wait, so our gaming
setup has two chairs? - [Sergiy] Think so. - Well I think that's the cheap chair. That one's $69 and this one's like 150. - Oh, why do I get the cheap chair? Hey, at least mine's red, loser. - Wait, I think that's
the expensive one too. - Oh - No, they sent a bunch of stuff but they gave us a parts list and then they sent us twice as much stuff. So I have no clue what exactly we have. Can you me the Allen key from that? - Absolutely, are you the
keeper of the Allen keys? - No, I'm the modifier of the Allen keys. - Oh, what are you doing to them? - Oh, I'm going to chop 'em off and then just stick 'em in a drill. - Oh, that's, that's smart. This pillow actually feels
really nice and I'm a little bit concerned that it's not a simple pillow. The intended use is apparently to have it sit on your lap and you can put your hands
in here to keep them warm. But check this out, there's a zipper. Is it a jacket? - [Andy] It is.
- Is it really? - [Andy] Yeah. - The ROG gaming pillow jacket. Wait, is it more like, like a, like a Snuggie style jacket? Okay.
- [Andy] Maybe. (laughter) - Got my hands in here
for warmth, okay, Andy? - [Andy] Twenty-five bucks. - [Linus] Really? - [Andy] Yeah. - Wow, that's really cheap. Oh, this is cool. Okay, so, remember when there
was all that controversy over the cost of the
wheels for the Mac Pro? Well, huh, boy, does IKEA
ever have a solution for you? (metal clangs)
Oh, gosh. This is the UPPSPEL, and basically it's two
little metal brackets, so you can presumably adjust
the actual width of it. You put wheels on the bottom, and you roll your computer around. Genius. - [Andy] Twenty bucks. - What are you working
on over there, Serge? - It looks like it's uh, called, let's see, what is this? It's an UPPSPEL cabinet. But looks like so you can store your trophies in it and whatnot, so. (chuckling)
- [Andy] Your trophies. To Apple's credit, their casters are a little nicer. But the way this works
is, you slide this in, and then you just bend the tab of metal to hold it into place. That's extremely cheap. - In fairness, that is
35 times less expensive. - [Linus] Yep, twenty bucks
is the correct price for this. - [Alex] Is it too wide? - It's too wide, yeah. (laughter) We didn't go for a high end enough ROG PC. It looks kind of ridiculous. (laughter) Hey Alex, look how fast my computer is. - Jeez, easy there. (laughter) - Whoa, whoa, whoa. Hold on a second.
(plastic packaging crackling) Is this a full sized desk pad? Oh wait no, this is probably
a floor mat for the chair. - Yeah, it's a floor mat. - Oh, I was, I was way
too excited about this. It's nice that it matches the
aesthetic of the desk pad. Here, that's pretty cool. (cordless drill whirring) Okay. Now Linus, you might say, what could possibly be the point of that? To which I would reply. - It can hold all kinds of things. Your controller, your headphones. - Hey Alex. Hey Alex. - Not cool.
(stifled laughter) - How much would it hurt them, to in addition to the like, name, um, tell you what it is? - Okay, this was really easy except for this one bolt you can't get to because of that. But whatever, it can just stay there. - [Linus] Wait, what? - Well we can -
- I'm sure we can do it. - Ah, we probably can.
- Let me see. (cordless drill whirring) Oi. Yeah. - Yeah. (laughter) And we have a chair! - [Linus] That is definitely
the same as the other chair. That's very unfortunate. - It doesn't feel too bad. Uh, maybe it does. - So remember that you're spoiled and you have like, a
$700 chair at your desk, and a like, $450 one at home. - Yeah, it's actually not that bad. (short chuckle) - Just need that context. Okay, I think this is the part where we start putting
holes in the wall, boys. - [Alex] What about before that, we build the desk and
see where we want it. - Oh, building desks is such a pain. It's okay I'm ready, I'm ready to Republic of Gamers game. Oh Serge, you don't have to
be that careful with stuff. Just, just chuck the packaging anywhere. logistics will come clean it up. - I mean, you mean me? (laughter) You say you want me to come get up? Sure, no problem. - Serge works in logistics. That's, that's the joke. And also we, we try to be nice for them. (Sergiy laughs) - I think that completes that. Now you have your little trophy case. - All you need to do now
is ever win a trophy. Oh, can help you with that. - I think that's a frame actually. - A frame?
- For the, the desk frame. - Desk frame? - [Alex] I think it
might be a second desk. - Is it?
- Oh! - [Alex] 'Cause I think that they sent us the non-standing one, and then we were like
we want the standing one and that's when they sent
us all the other crap. - Oh. Okay, so while I put together this one, you can throw together
the alternate one I guess. You know, these are the very bolt cutters that got me out of a locked park after we were accidentally
there after closing. - [Alex] What? (metal clinks) So I just became very concerned because my right arm has an "L" on it and the other one has an "R" on it. Except that this is without
a doubt the left arm, which means they just have
the markings backwards. - Well, trying to fit, see how what the engineers
came up with this, with these drawings when
they first created this. Otherwise it seems straightforward but then looking for the parts, is it becomes another nightmare. This is the second UTESPELARE table. I think that's how it's pronounced. Which is the first,
the table they sent us, which turns out to be the
non standing desk one. - Ugh - [Andy] How was it? - Second chair's done. I think it feels faster. (stifled laughter)
- Shut up - Here, we've got a
drawer that's on casters to go beside your table. I don't know what makes it a gamer drawer, but I guess we'll find out soon here. - Hey, Hey, I know what makes
something gamer drawers. - Uh no! - lttstore.com, baby. Got the underwear. I guess drawers is technically uh, drawers is pants but... - Big moment of truth, Andy. This is one of those
terrible things from IKEA, where you just have like, a hundred different
dowels and crap to put in to kind of ambiguous holes. And now you get to find out, if it goes together, you did it right and if it doesn't go together, you're going back and trying to figure out which dowel you put in the
wrong stupid hole or something. - [Andy] Good luck. - It worked! - [Andy] Nice! (energetic music) - Okay, so this corner
got bashed up in shipping so I kind of want that one at the back. - Okay, so
- Is that chill? - When we flip it we should be fine then. - Yeah, okay! Let's do it.
Did you get, did you nail it? - Uh, yep. - Really? Are all the
holes aligned right now. - Yep. - I'm impressed. You have a bright future as an
IKEA furniture assembly lady. - Thank you. - Um okay, how many of
these did you put in? Why is it seven? How could it be seven? No, I refuse to accept that. - It's not. - What kind of number is seven? - No, it is. (laughing) - I hate it.
- This is not satisfying. I think that this one
isn't aligned properly. - Oh, no.
- And that's your side, so. - My side? You're the one who, you're the one who had set how long it is. - Uh yeah, but, you're the one who validated
that the holes were lined up. (drill spinning)
- I asked you. - Yeah, and I said, I think so. - Right, so it's on you. - But, how am I supposed to visually see the thing that was right in front of you? - Is this just another floor mat? - This one feels a lot more trickier than this, than ah, that one. And I think that one -
- I don't think so, I think this is exactly the same thing. - Is it? - Why did they send us two floor mats? - I don't know. - [Alex] We have two chairs. - Okay, well -
- I mean yeah, we got two chairs. Maybe they just assumed we have a friend who will sit and game with us. - Maybe? (forced maniacal laughter) - We're PC gamers. - Hey, there we go, They also sent us two prints, which actually kind of like cyber, one's Cyber Punk looking
and the other one is, I have no idea what that is. - Um.
- Oh, there we go. - ROG table. (strained groan) We're going over. Oh, no. Yes. This way.
(strained groan) (desk dragging) Okay, if you could just um, maybe take the cardboard out. I'm good. I'm fine. - [Andy] Where are you, Linus? - So you can either have this at the back for your cable management or you can have it at the front for your pulling yourself
closer to your monitor so you can get that,
get that gamer posture. - [Madison] Linus? I have some bad news. - What? What now? Ooh. - [Madison] The front might
be worse than the back. - Oh. Well that's unfortunate. - Anyone have a Sharpie? - [Alex] Yeah, that's a
Sharpie job right there. That's a, that's a take it
back to IKEA job right there. - Yeah. No, no we're going to try theirs first. I know ours is way better. Okay, fine show ours, it's way better. - It's way better. - It is way better. I mean that's just, oh,
man. That's, that's - - Look at how much better fits the desk. - It's so much better. lttstore.com But, but, but for now this
is the ROG IKEA build, so we'll use their
smaller, inferior mouse pad without even stitched edges. Wow. You know what? That looks wonderful. - [Madison] Thank you. Also, I only give honest feedback. (laughter) - [Sergiy] No comment. - Did you ever think, Wow! I really loved that cup holder, but what it needed was more wood grain? Boy, do I ever have the solution for you. In all seriousness though,
this clamp, outstanding. It's like, all aluminum, solid aluminum as far as I can tell. So this thing? No joke, that's going
to hold your beverage like nobody's business. - [Andy] Does it fit an LTT water bottle? - If it doesn't I'm taking it back. - [Madison] It doesn't.
- Does it not? Oh, what about the
small one, the 20 ounce? - [Madison] It fits the small
one but not the big one. - Oh, well, they kind of go together. - [Andy] Try this one. - Oh, that's cool its
got a, oh yeah, sure. (sharp intake of breath)
- [Andy] Heck yeah! - It's a match made in
heaven for the 40 ounce. - [Madison] I was wrong. - Look at that. Oh, man. This thing, officially awesome, now that it fits this. ltt.store.com Okay, but this is the ROG build, Alex get this crap out of here. Now I need this. This fits much better. (laughter) Oh, here we go. Oh yeah. Oh, I'm feeling ROG all right, yeah the chair's not amazing hey, Alex? - [Alex] No. If you're like a kid, or
if you're kinda light, it probably won't be a problem. But I have a little too much ass girth. This is hilarious. I was about to put this
down here and then be like, oh no, I didn't put it on the thing. Not at all. Duh. This is actually amazing. - [Alex] Oh, it can't go there, Linus. - What? Why not? - Because this thing's
going to be awesome. - [Linus] Oh, what's that? - It's the drawer that goes beside it but it has cable management
built in the back. It's actually pretty sweet. - Oh, I thought it was
going to go more like here. - Yeah, this can go there and then the PC can go on top of it, and then you can manage
everything into it. - On top of it. But I got
the floor rolling thing. - But then it's on casters. - But I got the, it is on casters. - Yeah. But those casters are way worse. You can cable manage into this, then you have, you have
your just gaming cart. You can go from, you know your desk to your living room. - But I like that thing. - It's not even the right size. - Now, normally I would
obviously put in anchors and/or try to hit the stud. But this is going to be
here for about half an hour. So, I'm not too worried about it. Uh, how level am I? - [Andy] Uh, not level. - Sorry, 50 kilos is the
weight limit for this table? - [Madison] Yeah. - That's it, huh? - [Madison] It's like, bending
back and forth as you move. - Wow How about that? You wanna come up here too?
- Oh, jeez. Maybe you stay in line
with like right here. The... Oh. (Linus whooping) - Oh cool, it's a pegboard
inside the case too. (sharp intake of breath) Oh, I love it. Aww crap. I was getting it on the mouse pad and then I shook it off the table, and now it's on the floor mat. (banging)
Augh. - Maybe I should have
brought a bigger drill bit. (banging) Yeah. I need a bigger drill bit. - Oh, we didn't have
to use drywall anchors, (thud)
this is plywood. (laughing) We did that so that we wouldn't
have to use drywall anchors. - No wonder it didn't go in. (banging) - Well, don't put the
drywall anchor in now. - We're committed. Unless we use like chonk-tastic screws. - What could be better
than this mounting job? This can hold so much award. (thumping) - We got these RGB strips that are? - Five meters. - So we have two of them and we need to figure
out how we wanna run it to make everything - - That's a lot of meters. - Yeah - Oh it's actually, I,
I like this mechanism. This is so much better than most of the RGB connection things I've seen. It's got a nice little housing on it. Oh, yeah. Red bit... oh, wait, uh, there's different colors. (chuckling) All right, we're going
to have to adjust that. It does look cool, yeah. See, you were being such a hater before. Now all of a sudden you're like, "No, it's actually pretty cool." You were totally. you were running - (beep) What's a good way to mount this? - I don't know, double-sided tape? - Thinking a tack. Who has tacks? - I don't know. - Check the accounting department, get it? - Yes. - Tax, 'cause they - - They do our taxes yes. - Yes. - I can't believe you
made Andy roll for that. - They also have a bulletin board. All right, who wants to help level me? - [Madison] I think only
your wife can do that. - No, she's tried. Dude, that looks sick. - Oh yeah. - I love the pegboard.
The poster is awful. - Yeah the poster's not great. - It's ruined. Whole day ruined. Um, but this is good too. - Maybe we just take this out, put some electrical tape over
there and then we're good. - I think that's a really solid plan 'cause that is truly spectacularly bad. I gotta be hon...oh it
goes on the other way. It goes on forward. I think it does anyway. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah 'cause that's where the hands go. That's gotta be it. I gotta tell you though, after you guys put the
finishing touches on it, I don't think it looks very good. - [Alex] What? - Because it looks very great! - [Alex] Yes, whoo.
- It looks so awesome! Man, like fricking ROG IKEA. Who would have ever thunk it, right? Like it's just, man, it went from yeah, I
don't know, like, whatever. It's like IKEA furniture or whatever. To like oh, man, you're a gamer now, dog. Like, look at this place. It looks awesome! The whole thing is just super cohesive. And like, not, it's not
just gamer desk worthy. Like, this is like, set worthy. Like, it looks freaking like
we spent a fortune on it. Oh, I see we, we ended up swapping out the desk back for ours. - [Alex] Well, the IKEA
one is over on this setup. - Oh yeah. I haven't even
looked at your setup yet. You know what? I love this
cable management concept. Like, having it kind of go back into like, it's like a, it's like a
boardroom table kind of thing. I got no idea what's happening. (gunfire in game) No, come on. So it's the usual conclusion. An epic gaming setup can
not make you an epic gamer. But at least you'll feel good doing it. Just like I feel good telling
you about our sponsor. Thanks again to Eaton for
sponsoring today's video. Eaton is the first major
manufacturer to offer a global, double conversion
one to three kilovolt ampere lithium ion UPS to the market. The Eaton 9PX lithium ion is
a tower and rack Mount UPS that features an extended
battery life span of eight to ten years. So you can set it and forget it. That's two to three times longer than the battery lifespan of
a standard lead acid UPS. It has up to 120% better runtime and a great small form factor with a lightweight design. If you need a longer runtime, just add additional
extended battery modules. The 9PX lithium ion UPS
is also network enabled so you can connect it
with Eaton's network card, environmental monitoring probe and automatic transfer switch
for expanded cybersecurity, 24/7 monitoring and redundancy. So save yourself time and
money while reducing potential risks with the Eton 9PX lithium ion UPS. Damn, now I want to replace ours. Learn more at eaton.com/ltt Our lead acid one is doing great though. If you guys have enjoyed this video, maybe check out our last
epic IKEA gaming setup. That time, without ROG as a collaborator and honestly, I just, I just
don't think it was as good. That's freakin'' sick. Look how ready to game I am, boys. It's not even going to fall off. See?