$7,000. And that's just for the base model of the new Mac Pro. I mean, in fairness, Apple has been true to their word here. They have both completed the transition to Apple Silicon, which they said they would, and they've offered professionals who are invested in the Mac Pro form factor some continuity in a product line that has for 20 years been in constant flux. But I can't help but feel like this is a classic case of malicious compliance, where they're bringing this thing back to life once again, only to prove their point that it should have stayed dead. And I'm not the only one. With the same class of hardware as the Mac Studio that costs a little over half as much, the Mac Pro has had a hard time convincing folks that it has any reason to exist, which won't prevent us from running some interesting experiments on its animated corpse. For example, Apple said you can't put a GPU in it, but we tried it anyway just to see what would happen, and we put it through a battery of tests to search for some, any reason for this computer to have been built. We also searched for our sponsor, Setapp. App stores have millions of apps, but if I know you, you only want the good stuff. That's why I like you. Well, $9.99 a month gets you access to Setapp's more than 230 carefully curated premium feature-enabled Mac and iOS apps. It's so you. Try it free for seven days at the link below. Like the new M2 Ultra version of the Mac Studio that launched alongside it, the new Mac Pro is externally, essentially unchanged from its predecessor. There's only a couple of subtle differences around back, where the previous gen Intel Mac Pro had its graphics cards mounted at the bottom of the case, nearest the power supply and the dual 10 gig LAN ports. The HDMI ports for the M2 Ultra Mac Pro are up at the top, just under the healthy bank of six Thunderbolt 4 ports to go along with the two on the top. That total of eight is less than the maximum on the old Intel Mac Pro, but hey, at least you get all eight, regardless of the hardware configuration. Once again then, it's all about what's on the inside. Powering the new Mac Pro is Apple's top tier M2 Ultra SoC, which is basically two M2 Max SoCs glued together with Apple's UltraFusion interconnect, which allows them to operate as one, which is cool, but it happens to be the exact same chip down to the maxed out 76 core GPU that's in our new Mac Studio. The only difference is that unlike our studio, which we set up with 128 gigs of RAM, our Mac Pro is equipped with the maximum 192 gigabytes of unified memory, which sounds like a lot because it is, but you've got to consider the customer here. One of the biggest drawbacks to the Intel Mac Pros was that some CPU configurations were limited to only 768 gigabytes of system memory, which again, sounds like a lot because it is, but was also a legitimate reason for some professional users to spring for the higher end chips that could address twice as much. So what I'm trying to say is that when it comes to folks who are dealing with complex simulations, machine learning, or any large data set, Apple no longer has any option for them at any price. Now, this smaller memory pool does have the benefit of being unified, meaning that Apple's GPU can address more memory than any PC GPU, even ones that cost as much as this entire machine. But we are talking about some pretty specialized workloads here that what would benefit from a ton of GPU memory that comes at the direct cost of having basically no system memory. So we're finding ourselves asking, if the system configuration is identical to the studio, and in some ways worse than the old Intel model, what is the point of the new Mac Pro? What is all this cooling for? We can answer that with benchmarks. A quick note before we begin, Apple's product page pits the new Mac Pro against the previous gen, both baseline and fully kitted out, which is a four year old machine that started for $1,000 less than this one. But credit to Apple, it's still a far better frame of reference than their studio comparisons were. Now, we don't have either a base model or a fully kitted out Intel Mac Pro, so our testing is gonna focus on current gen hardware, including a PC bench with a Core i9-13900K and an RTX 4090. Starting with Octane, the Mac Studio is exactly as fast as the Mac Pro and costs $3,000 less. Not a great start and Redshift doesn't give us much to celebrate unless you consider one second a massive win over a machine that is already substantially more expensive than the PC bench that is obliterating it. Blender 2 shows the Mac Pro's GPU pushing mostly the same performance on lighter renders, but Gooseberry sees an eight second gap between the two machines, suggesting that extended GPU loads could benefit from the extra cooling at its disposal. I mean, they don't benefit enough to justify Apple's refusal to allow their users to install more powerful accelerators like the RTX 4090, because our PC bench at a lower price manages to beat both of them. In our mixed 4K, 8K HDR timeline in DaVinci Resolve, we ran into that same bug that cropped up in our Mac Studio review that prevents us from comparing these two units, but what we can at least do here is see the performance that the M2 Ultra is supposed to have, regardless of which machine it's installed in. Internally, we've investigated this bug a fair bit and our best guess right now is that whatever heuristics Apple is using to determine power states and fan speeds is preventing our studio from achieving max performance. The SSDs are nearly identical between the two machines with both of them dramatically outperforming the encoding speed, meaning that they will never be a bottleneck. We did discover though, the Mac Pro's SSD seems to have a minor advantage in 4K reads, so point Mac Pro. And another point for the Mac Pro is in our Chromium compile where it shaved just over two minutes off of the Mac Studio's time, which sounds really impressive until you realize that that works out to about a 4% performance improvement. But hey, it does at least show again that the additional cooling may be making a difference. When we move to synthetics, however, everything kind of falls apart again. Performance test has the Pro in the studio at about the same performance level and Geekbench gives the Pro only a one to 2% lead in the GPU and CPU tests respectively. Cinebench surprisingly shows the Pro gain about a 7% lead over the studio, which is especially odd considering the renderer that R23 uses is still Intel optimized, but hey, it's something. And something else is Blender's CPU renderer, which might not be super relevant to most people, but here is one more synthetic test that sees real gains over the Mac Studio with performance more closely matching the PC bench in some scenes. Perhaps the Pro's CPU cores are able to more aggressively turbo or maybe the massive cooler is preventing the system from throttling when the studio otherwise would. To test that theory, we set up our combined CPU and GPU stress test and ran it at room temperature where, oh, looky here. While the GPU clocks are roughly the same throughout the run between our two Macs, it seems that the Mac Studio allows its CPU clocks to drop down before the fans even get a chance to fully ramp up. That throttle point is visible right here when we look at the temperatures. For comparison, here's the more gradual ramp on the Mac Pro without the throttling hump. Curiously though, the fans didn't kick in for either system until about the four minute mark of this load. So the Mac Pro's ample cooling system seems to be almost purely for show. And given that at room temperature, the Mac Studio's fans never approach their maximum 3500 RPM, it's pretty clear that with an aggressive fan curve, a Mac Studio owner should be able to reach the same level of performance as a Mac Pro owner. There's no additional special sauce in the silicon and all while saving enough to buy 150 of the new mystery water bottles at lttstore.com. As expected then, lowering our ambient temperature to 10 degrees yielded no change in performance and the Mac Pro's fans barely spun. And at 35 degrees, same story, except the fans finally broke a thousand RPM, making the Mac Pro the perfect machine for running heavy loads super quietly in a really hot environment, sort of actually. I'm not quite sure how this works given their nearly identical performance, but the smaller studio draws just a third as much power at idle, meaning that the Pro will actually kick more heat out into your room. And the Pro also reaches a higher peak power consumption at 356 watts. How much of this extra draws from the SOC versus the extra boards and fans? We can't say that for sure, but what we can say for sure is that both machines are substantially less power hungry than our PC, both at idle and at full bore. The Core i9-13900K and the RTX 4090 alone can draw upwards of 600 to 700 watts when both of them are running full tilt. So the studio offers the same performance with a smaller footprint and even less power draw. Surely there must be something the Mac Pro does that the Mac studio can't, right? Ah, cracking open the chassis reveals a lot, a lot of empty space that is. The Intel Mac Pro had eight PCI Express Gen 3 slots, usually with some expansion cards in them, while the M2 model features a total of seven PCI Express Gen 4 slots, which sounds like not much of a downgrade, but it's more than you would think. While six of the slots are full length, only the bottom two are wired up for the full 16 lanes with the next four limited to half the total bandwidth at eight lanes and the slot that's normally occupied by the Apple IO card have began to a mere four lanes, meaning that should you choose to use one of your Thunderbolt ports as a DisplayPort output and rip that card out and replace it with something else, your options would be a little limited, more limited. We're gonna get to that later. First, on the subject of Thunderbolt ports, you might think that you could remove that card too and maybe get another internal expansion slot, but you can't, the design is proprietary. There's no key like a PCI Express slot would have and the power is supplied on the edge card connector in a shrunk down interpretation of Apple's one-off proprietary MPX connector for graphics cards. This enables sufficient power delivery without the use of internal cables. Really does look pretty on the inside. Now, because MPX is officially gone now, these three miniature cable connections then are the only way to get a total of 300 watts of additional power if you need them for your expansion cards. Not all expansion cards need that, of course, especially if you're not installing any GPUs, but this arrangement means that expansion cards like the four bay MPX hard drive module that Promise used to sell are no longer compatible with the new version of the Mac Pro. That leaves hard drive expansion to just the upper chamber where a sold separately two drive bay can be fitted that makes use of the connectors just above the IO cards. Good gravy, is there ever a lot of empty space in here? Turning the computer around reveals that the shrouded RAM slots are actually still here from the previous model, complete with easy open locks. Except instead of RAM, we get some heat sinks. Bummer. But wait, ooh, that's where the SSD slots are now. All two of them. But unlike the SSDs used for the Mac studio, which are bare flash modules, Apple does in fact still allow users to upgrade these. So that's one major advantage over the studio. That is assuming that you don't just kit out your studio from the factory with all the money you saved by not being a chump and buying a Mac Pro. The other major advantage is back with those PCI express slots. So let's talk a little bit about what we got working in here. To get the obvious out of the way first, the Radeon 5700 XT that did work fine in an Intel Mac Pro was a no-go here. It wouldn't output anything, and while it is detected in Mac OS actually, which is farther than I expected to get, it shows that it doesn't have a driver. Of course, that is what Apple said would happen. They no longer offer support for GPUs, even for AMD ones. So here's all the other cards we tested, and we did find some surprises. What wasn't surprising is the biggest issue by far is driver support. Companies like Blackmagic have large professional Mac user bases, and their products worked without much ado. But others like Elgato and Avermedia, perhaps rightly, feel that there's a larger Mac market for external capture dongles than there is for internal cards. It was surprising to see the Mellanox 100 gig ethernet card that we grabbed just pick up and run just like that. I mean, I would have half expected Apple to remove the driver to spite Nvidia who acquired Mellanox in 2019. Unsurprisingly then, our Apex Storage X21 SSD carrier card didn't work, in fairly spectacular fashion, but then along came the Honey Badger. Honey Badger don't give a crap. Honey Badger does what it wants, and it wants to work. Not only did Liquid's M.2 card manage to make the SSDs show up in system information, but we were even able to use disk utility to create a RAID array on it. Though, for some reason known only to Apple, they are registered as external drives. I mean, hey, at least we can install SSDs in the slots. Yay. And so between this and the 100 gig NIC, you know, if the dual onboard 10 gig NICs are not enough for some reason, we might have found some of the only expansion cards that really make more sense inside the Mac Pro than in one of the six Thunderbolt enclosures that you could buy for the difference in price and install your expansion cards in with the Mac Studio. Oh, there is another card that pros might wanna use, Avids HDX. It's $500 and we have no use for it, so we didn't buy one, but apparently a driver does exist for these cards and it does work on Apple Silicon. It just requires you to relax the startup security settings on your Mac, which should be fine, but isn't ideal. The more I look at this thing then, the more I'm coming to appreciate the Mac Studio, I guess. As much as we ragged on that machine for not living up to Apple's hype and for not liking the way that they marketed it, it's safe to say that it's more than enough computer for 90% of the people who were looking for a Mac Pro. And hey, at least it doesn't cost another $3,000 only to do almost nothing to address the other 10% of users. I don't know what to say other than that this thing is an abject failure and an absolute slap in the face to Apple's professional users yet again. Does anyone wanna buy a lightly used M2 Ultra Mac Pro that got scratched while we were sliding it out of the thermal chamber? No? How about a mention in a video? Anyone wanna buy a mention in a video? How about you, Guardio? Here's the thing about phishing attacks and hacks. Nobody, including us here, is immune to them. As a result, it's a good idea to have fail safes in place as the hacking landscape changes. Guardio's browser extension is designed to help protect you as you browse online. Think about how much information you save on your browser, like passwords, credit card info, addresses. It's exactly the kind of thing you don't want falling into nefarious hands. And it would be wonderful if having two-factor authentication was enough, but let our recent hack be a lesson that that isn't always the case. So as hackers adapt, Guardio can help fill in some of those security gaps. They don't rely on block listing and they're able to block malware, harmful sites, and other cams preemptively. So if you find your cursor hovering over a malicious link, know that Guardio can intervene. And it's super easy to get started with a free security scan in under 30 seconds. They've got over a million current users and they're offering our audience 20% off a monthly subscription. So scan your browser for threats for free by visiting guard.io slash linustechtips to experience real-time threat removal. If you guys enjoyed this video, go check out our review of the Mac Studio for our critique of the somehow better of the two machines.