- According to Wikipedia, There are 308 games for the Xbox series X, and over 3000 titles to play. If you count it's extensive
backwards compatible library. Wow, that's a lot. And it's also less than half
of the number of PC titles released on Steam each year
for the past four years. And one of the best things about PC gaming is that if you were to go back, and re-explore some of those older games, you might discover that some of them are very different experiences
from what you remember. So that's what we're
going to be doing today. Sponsored by LG display, who also provided what is
arguably the best gaming display on the market. Their OLED Evo, G-one. I'm going to be going back and playing some of my
favorite PC gaming titles from years gone by. Each with its own special twist. And each of them showcasing
one of the amazing ways that the PC gaming community
keeps these old gems alive. (upbeat music) We're going to start with a
classic Grand Theft Auto Four, and "Linus", you might say, "GTA four, isn't that old, how can you call it a classic?" But it actually launched in April of 2008, over 13 years ago. And honestly speaking, it shows. To be clear Nico and Liberty city looked great for back then, but time steals the beauty
from all of us, doesn't it? Thankfully there's cosmetic surgery. The GTA 4 beautification projects is a combination of mods
that upgrades everything, from textures to NPC and vehicle models to even the graphics or lighting. Yeah. - [Plouffe] Like, I mean
comparatively to GTA V. I mean, for a game that, I mean, yeah. I mean, obviously it's not GTA V, but like those are some
very substantial upgrades. See you later bud. I mean, there's nothing you can do about the the ragdoll physics that haven't aged particularly well, but man this is the kind of thing that's obviously not cutting
edge AAA quality for today, but what it is, is acceptable. If a game came out and
looked like this today, you'd say, "Okay. Yeah,
it's on a lower budget, but it looks fine. It's totally playable. The clouds are a little broken. Well that's okay. We don't have to look at the clouds. You know, when you catch the, okay that, I was about to say, when you catch it just right, the light reflections off the
water are actually not bad, but this is not optimal (laughs). What is this? Looks like slow motion footage of someone like shaking a tray of jello." Weee, oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. So, okay mods can't fix
everything about older games, but still massive props to Boris Vorontsov for making ENB the "Enhanced
Natural Beauty Project", which covers this Skyrim
and some other games, as well as Deep Peasant
3, Dax1, DKT70, AP84, and the entire community
that has made this possible. This looks really good for
a game from that long ago. Weee! Of course one of the key contributors to our better than ever experience
is our OLED display here. The thing is no matter
how sharp the picture is on a traditional LCD screen, as soon as the image moves it blurs. That's because there's a small delay while each pixel changes color. And this transition period is
called pixel response time. Now because OLED's don't
use liquid crystals, their transitions are near instantaneous. How instantaneous? Okay watch this while I go grab something. (knife slashing) (somber music) Going back and re-experiencing
in-game cinematics, that blew your mind 10 or 20 years ago is almost always a major letdown. But one of the more recent
trends in game modding has been exporting and
up-scaling these cinematics to match the resolution
that we're now gaming at. And I think this example
from Dragon Age Origins is a great one. They managed to juice them
up to 1440P or even 4k 60 FPS in a way that looks
surprisingly convincing. It's a really nifty idea. And there are lots of tools
that you can experiment with for yourself. You can see there's
certain things that age a lot worse than others. Like anywhere they've tried
to apply a depth of field kind of bokeh to the shot. It's pretty rough, but in areas where the original
was supposed to be sharp, but it's just low res. It's a lot better. I'm back with this, using an oscilloscope, we can quantify the amount of
blur to expect from a display by measuring the time
it takes to transition between say black and white. On the left, we've got a regular
old LCD and on the right, our LG OLED display. Now to find pixel response time, we're using this blinking
line test pattern and our oscilloscope to
measure the amount of time between the black and white
transition and vice versa. Impressively our OLED gets
as low as .016 milliseconds compared to 4.9 for the LCD though it should be noted
that if we were flashing a much larger portion of the screen, we could get results closer to
0.1 millisecond on the OLED. And as we've already shown in the past, this has a market impact on
image quality in the real world, especially in faster paced games. (shouts) I've put off playing this until we could make a video about it. We finally had an opportunity. This is it, ladies and gentlemen, from Vitor Vilela who
credits plenty of people, in the GitHub page. This is Super Mario World
running in widescreen 16:9. And it would be easy
enough to run widescreen just by shrinking the vertical resolution. That's the way that all the crappy games handle widescreen support, but no they manage to
modify the original ROM. (laughing) This is, and the excellent bsnes
emulator to give you an expanded horizontal field of view. You can actually see more of the level than you ever could before. (cheerful game music) I'm gonna at least get to a level that's at least like
marginally challenging. Now, hold on a second, I didn't even look that closely before this is up scaled too. Isn't it? There is no way Mario's butt wiggle is that high definition
in the original game. - [Plouffe] You know
you can run ahead now, 'cause of this widescreen. - I know, right, except I'm gonna get crushed if I do it, oh wait I could, oh, you
can totally go ahead. That's not how the game's
supposed to be played. Retro games like this
are some of the hardest to re-experience and a big part of it is that the way that modern displays work is fundamentally different
from older CRT tube displays. Now we can get around some
of this by enabling filters, for example, to add fake scan lines, or otherwise recreate the retro look. But one of the hardest things to overcome, is the dreaded input lag. You see almost all CRTs accepted
analog inputs exclusively that were immediately passed along to an electron gun that
ripped back and forth, drawing the image on a
phosphor coated screen. Then along came flat panel displays with their digital inputs
that required image processing for the best results. Now there's no doubt
that they look better, especially today, but if that
processing takes too long, you could have pixels
that change their values nearly instantly, like we
saw with our oscilloscope, but you could still have an
unresponsive gaming experience. That is where the LG G-one TV makes an excellent case for itself. As the ultimate gaming display, 6.8 milliseconds on our
Leo Bodner Input Leg Tester is less than a single frame at 120 Hertz. A funny thing about input lag
and early digital flat panels, is that many of the
games that were released while they were gaining in popularity were intentionally made less difficult because it just wasn't possible to achieve the same kind of pixel perfect timing on these new displays that
you could on the older CRTs. So going back and playing games like this, even if you don't mind the look can be impossible because you just, you can't time your jumps properly. Ah. No. Yes, yes, yes. That's just the worst feeling ever. You get the first two right. And you miss the last one like that. Now, one of the reasons that input lag has come up in conversation
so much lately, is because of cloud gaming. Obviously, if you're going to
have a server that somewhere. Oh, I'm good. Thanks Yoshi, see you later, buddy. (sad music) (laughing) The additional step of
sending all the data to, and from the cloud adds a
frame or two of delay at best. So while TV's have
improved by a frame or two over the last five, 10 years,
if the data center is three, 400 kilometers away we could easily end up right back where we started. Which leads us perfectly to our next game because 1994's Tie Fighter
was where it all began for me. For my birthday that year
I asked for my family's 386 to be upgraded to a Pentium 1, 166. That was the first time
I ever upgraded hardware to play a video game. Now we're flipping the script. We're upgrading the game
to play my hardware. A massive community of
modders has been hard at work, completely remaking Tie Fighter
using more modern assets, including ships effects and
even the game engine itself. It's called, "Tie Fighter,
Total Conversion Mod". And I am extremely excited about it. Here it is the X-Wing Alliance
launcher, but then wait, Tie Fighter. Yes, my friends, because Tie fighter was using
such an old game engine. I mean 1994, the mod is actually built on one of the sequels,
X-Wing Alliance from 1999. It's very different, like
it looks freaking amazing. Hey, here we go. Alright. Oh man. Just like the space environments
look so much better. Oh my gosh, this looks insane. You know, what's funny, one of the reasons we
picked this particular game, aside from that it was one of my favorites when I was growing up was because it's a perfect showcase
for inky blacks on OLED, but now space, isn't just, just black. There's all these like Nebulas and stuff. Let's look at this lens flare. Coming back to the deep blacks
that you get with an OLED, there's another advantage for gamers. So one of the ways that LCDs combat OLED is through local dimming, where they will actually
modulate the backlight in certain parts of the screen, depending on what is being displayed. The problem with it is
that it requires the scene to be analyzed before its output, which can add, you guessed it, input lag. So because you don't have
to do that on an OLED, because black is just, pixel off, it's just less processing
that has to be done. This gaming is making me thirsty. lttstore.com. One of the coolest things
about running games and emulators is that obviously if I was playing PlayStation
1 emulated games back in, you know, the mid 2000's. Computers have gotten a
little bit more powerful. So nowadays you can take something like Pete's open GL GPU core, and absolutely crank these older games. So we've got this probably
a little over cooked in terms of filtering and
upscaling and stuff like that. But look how smooth that looks, like this game run about. Okay, you can see the text is
getting mangled a little bit, text is not the best for upscaling, but let's see how the
actual gameplay looks. Wow. Like I said, over cooked a little, but how sharp this looks is unbelievable. I mean, to be clear,
the original graphics, they were fine for the time, but they were designed for a
27, maybe 32 inch TV, right? Anyway, for our final retro game, we are going back to what
was arguably the prettiest of the next gen first-person shooters released back in the mid 2000's with Half-Life 2, Doom 3 and Halo 2 all on the horizon. Far Cry came out of freaking nowhere. Looked absolutely beautiful
with its lush jungles, and beaches and kind
of embarrassed them all by launching first. At least that's how I remember it. Maybe it looks like absolute garbage. Oh my God, this icon, I haven't seen this icon in 15 years. I am so excited. Now for this one we're not modding it. But one of, again, the coolest things about PC gaming is that even if there's no texture packs, or game play mods going
back and playing a game, that you originally played
on crap tier hardware, I was running a Radeon
9,600 Pro at the time, and just absolutely maxing
it out can be a total blast. This is going to be this game as I have never seen it before. One of the reasons for that
is that it's made by Crytek who has since become famous
for well releasing games that no contemporary computer
can run fully maxed out. Here we go. Okay, here it is. This is it, this is the moment
when you first see like, whoa, this game is unbelievable. Remember guys, like what we
had seen up until this time, like Unreal Tournament 2004 was considered a good looking game, right? Oh shoot, I only have two bullets. That's all Jack Harvard needs. He doesn't need like some mega super suit. He walks up and he shoots
you right in the face. This kind of vegetation. Totally unheard of back then. And totally unheard of back
then even playing this game, because you'd have to turn it
way down in order to run it, on the graphics cards
that we had at the time. Okay, please tell me
you have a sniper rifle. Oh my God. Look at this. Oh, what did I
just get shot off the platform? You know, what's a big
challenge making a sequel to a game that has such
a unique visual style, but still taking advantage of like, you know, modern hardware. This was a ton of fun. And if you're looking
for a new gaming display, I'm sure this video has given
you a lot to think about. Whether it's the black levels, the support for G-sync
and variable refresh rate or just the lightning fast input lag, and pixel response time. Thanks to OLED just turning
the pixels on and off. OLEDs are a great freaking option. No matter how old or new the
games you're playing are. And thanks to LG for sponsoring this. I had an absolute blast. Probably the only other video like this, is the one where I tried
every unplayed game in my steam backlog. Though, spoiler alert,
some of those games, there was a pretty good reason why I never bothered
playing them pretty bad.