Moving from 3-space to 2-space 
we're going to lose all depth information.  This is no surprise to us, we're accustomed to it. 
If you take a picture of me, my 3-dimensional   head becomes 2-dimensional, but the 
immersion from my 3-dimensional head   into 2-space - the flat screen that I'm projected 
onto - loses all information of the back of my head   and some part of my head becomes an edge. So a 
photograph is a 2-dimensional immersion of a   3-dimensional object. Well a Klein 
bottle is a manifold that really is   4-dimensional. And it's a fairly accurate 
representation of a Klein bottle almost everywhere - almost everywhere. Well, not really, because first 
of all it has a thickness. Glass has a thickness.  It's also not a perfect Klein bottle 
because a perfect Klein bottle   not only has zero thickness but its size 
is undefined until a until Mr Riemann's   metric is defined on it. To move this from four 
dimensions to three it has to self-intersect.   This self-intersection is a result of it being 
an immersion. There's several ways to do that, to   cause this self-intersection to happen. One -
the way I do it - is to bend the glass around,   make a ring weld here, make a ring weld there, 
make a weld here so that it's possible to   pour water in or make a connection through 
here and get from the outer universe to the   sort of inside. 
Can you put water in a Klein bottle? You betcha in our physical universe. Yeah I got that, but there's other ways to do it. 
So I talked to George Chittenden over at Adams   and Chittenden Glass. George says, ah let me at 
it! So he said another way to do it to make this   almost reach there and this intersection 
almost reach there. This is a valid immersion   of a Klein bottle. I can go here, I can push 
this up - oops - and you can kind of see that   it doesn't touch. This immersion allows an ant to 
walk around here everywhere but it adds two edges -   1,2 - that don't exist in the original 
Klein bottle. The original Klein bottle   has no edges and one side; this has one side but two edges. What's been lost from the true Klein 
battle into here is two edges have been introduced   and it's no longer connected from inside to outside. 
- (Brady: What advantage does it have over your?) This has the huge advantage, as George 
Chittenden said, of being slightly easier to make. But then George says, maybe I could try doing 
another one where instead of having the break here   let's make the break along here. Here we 
have the neck going all the way through   and a large hole around here - let's see if 
I can show that hole. Okay, hope that shows,   there's a hole that George burnt into the 
side of the Klein bottle and he brings this   tube right through it. 
- (That's kind of what you do in the other one except that hole then shrinks)  (to touch it doesn't it?)
- Correct, exactly right Brady. In my normal Klein model I'll shrink this hole   until it touches - what a glass blower would call 
a ring weld - however these are slightly different.   For example, here, this is a genuine edge. If the 
glass becomes arbitrarily thin this becomes   razor sharp. Here it's not an edge, rather it's a 
place where the manifold has multiple definitions   at one point. Here, on this Klein bottle, every 
point is properly defined in the entire manifold.   Here that's almost true except 
around the circle of singularities   each point is defined as, oh it might be 
part of this or it might be part of this. So I can spoodle this on this one, I 
can also spoodle in, however this hole   is a different approach to having an immersion.  Finally George said, well you know we could do it 
so that we demonstrate that the surface of the   bottle is continuous even along here. Problem that 
this has is there's a hole on the inside. So he put   a window in there so it almost looks like this, 
however there's a glass window that prevents   a connection between here and there. So 
in a sense this manifold is continuous   across here and continuous across here 
but it still has the self intersection   of a normal Klein bottle. All of these are 
different immersions of the same thing; the   point is you take a picture of my face or you 
take a picture from behind me or from over here   from up there, you're going to get a different view -
none of them are completely accurate. Is this a   completely accurate picture of Felix Klein? No, 
I can't tell what the back of his head is like!  I can't- I don't know how many ears he has. I know 
he's got one ear, I can extrapolate to say he's got   a second ear. The 3-dimensional human being 
can't be seen in a 2-dimensional photograph,  the nature of an immersion. Of course with all 
these different immersions of the Klein bottle   my friend Lucas Clarke came by and he 
said, Cliff I've got another approach.   Lucas looked at a Coca-Cola bottle and he 
said, I'm going to turn it into a Klein bottle.   And is that possible to see that this is- the very 
end of the - this is where the cap goes - he's drawn   the neck of the Klein bottle through a hole - 
mind you he has made a hole like this guy here - and he's drawn the neck through and welded the lip 
of the coke bottle to the base of the coke bottle.   What's astonishing about this is 
not just the mathematical immersion,   but glass people will recognize that this is 
a borosilicate glass, meaning that it's a very low   expansion glass. All the- all my Klein bottles 
are boros and it allows you to heat one area   without heating the entire thing. Borosilicate 
is relatively easy to work with, it's called   hard glass because it doesn't expand much with 
temperature, it's less likely to crack. This is   coke bottle glass, it's the cheapest soda-lime 
glass that the Coca-Cola company can find. Lucas   bent all of this using soda-lime glass which 
is really impressive but wait, there's even more   impressiveness about it. He was able to do all of 
this glasswork and preserve the paint on it. Notice,  glassblowers would- can put labels on glass 
using a ground-up ceramic called a ceramic frit.  Coca-Cola doesn't use a frit they just spray 
paint it on or screen it on. Lucas Clarke not   only was able to drill the hole but he was able to 
preserve the label and do all of this glass work   while retaining that it's a Coca-Cola bottle. 
- (That's the actual original top that he's threaded)  (through the hole?)
- Yes it is but I suspect that he welded another piece onto here, in other words I suspect   but I don't know, he didn't- Lucas keep secrets 
from me. I suspect that he put an additional   maybe oh 30 centimeters of Coca-Cola 
bottle glass to make this work but I'm not going to ask his secrets, 
there's some things I don't want to know. And held under water long enough...
- (So you're doing like a sort of a 360 are you to get)   (the bubble out?)
- This hole has got to be the same as this hole! Oh my God