These $5,000 AMD ultimate tech upgrades have gotten a little out of hand lately. And I was assured that today, our editor and Memelord extraordinaire, Alex, is just getting a simple workstation upgrade to the fastest CPU money can buy, the Ryzen 9 7950 X3D. What is that? Trouble. I'm organizing this and this? I'm supposed to wall mount the TV? Two TVs? There's a projector and a ceiling mount? This is an unconventional component, but at least it might come in handy. It's electric. Oh, I guess that was the point of the upgrade. I'm the ultimate tech upgrade is back, which means another chance to win sick goodies from AMD. All you've got to do is head over to our Twitter, X, Twitter, to enter the giveaway for a chance to win one of three AMD Ryzen 7800 X3D gaming processors. Thanks again to AMD for sponsoring this series. All right, nothing to do but get down to business then. Where do you want to start? In the bedroom? If you don't mind, I'm just going to... Oh, it's not bad for jumping. I've learned my lesson about that though. We're not going to do that. Can you not? Yeah, the point is my understanding is that the plan is the projector goes up here and then you've got a screen over here, but there's a door. Yeah, it's retractable. A retractable screen. Oh, good, that'll be even easier to get in exactly the right spot. Perfect. How are you going to power any of this? I don't know yet. Okay, let's go get the screen. Screen first then. I hope you got a seismic mount for this thing. No, I'm going to die, it's fine. I couldn't help noticing it. That's a lot. The other problem is we can't just mount this to the wall because you have a door here. Yeah. So the doorframe is going to get in the way. We have to mount this to the ceiling. Yeah. So you've got about a foot of black space before the screen itself has to start. That's good because that means that our projector can come down a bit and maybe clear that light. I really think we're just going to have to get rid of that lamp, but that's okay. Okay, crazy proposal, if you must watch TV in here, we take your second TV that you don't even have a plan for and we just mount it to the wall right there. No. All right then. Let's change gears and talk about the office. You've got your existing computer here and you've got a new case, motherboard and CPU, but you don't appear to have enough hardware to build a full second computer. So what exactly is it that you're doing here? I'm trying to build a new computer, but keep the same parts for the most part. So we're going 7950X3D with DDR5 memory in a new case, but with otherwise the same guts. Most of them, yeah. Okay. This I feel good about, this is going to be no problem. We found them guys, the one person other than me, who's dumb enough to use one of these M.2 carrier cards. Are you actually booting off this thing? I'm not booting off of it, but you know what the problem is with that? I don't have enough lanes. So only two SSDs that are in it actually work. Wait, and it has how many in it? Four. You're missing so many screws. We can't talk about that. Oh, okay. Man, I can't tell I haven't washed this in a year. A year? It was on a carpet. This is not that bad. I mean, yeah. For a year when you had like a rabbit and yeah. You have a rabbit? Or had, no. What's wrong with all these people out there who are working on Noctua coolers without even a Noctua edition screwdriver. Sign up for a notification, lttstore.com. Coming very soon. Buy a regular one. Well, why do you have an HBA in here? I had too many, is it connected right now? No, it's not connected to anything. That's not true. This is broken. Oh, cool. Wait, there's more SSDs. Yes, I'm loaded. Why do you need so much solid state storage? What the hell? Why do you need 24 terabytes of SSD storage? Why not? No, that's not the question. The question is why? I just have no reason. Is this the main drive? Good question. They weren't in a RAID configuration up until recently and it broke. So yeah, one of them is the main drive. I hate this. No, you don't. Yes, I do. I hate this. You love to suffer its content. My understanding so that you can use all 16 of these lanes and all four of these drives is that you want to put this in your primary PCIe slot, but you have a problem. You don't have a graphics adapter. This CPU has no onboard GPU. So you can't use these ports here. I can't run it at least. You may not be able to complete booting. You'll have to put a GPU in it at least once. Yeah, to get your OS installed and everything set up and maybe to configure the BIOS to say to ignore that error. And then after that, it might work. Yeah, your next problem is that your HBA, which you use to connect to all of your unnecessary two and a half inch solid state drives, is a 4X card. That means that it either needs to go in the bottom slot, which you will need if you ever wanted to put a GPU in here or it needs to go in your other 16X slot, which will automatically split your primary one into eight and eight. So then this won't get all 16 lanes and you won't be able to run all your SSDs. Okay. So I will put it in the bottom. Oh, actually, you know, I guess that's okay. Okay, yeah, I'll put this in the bottom slot. How did you do this? I'm trying to get the cables out of here and you've- You mean not pull through? You've managed to run two cables through the one cable. And I wouldn't need to pull on it if you didn't do this. I don't know. How did you manage to run? I don't know. I'm gonna have to completely disconnect everything in this computer to get your power supply cables out. They're hooked. The good news is the cavalry's here. We've got Colin and Elijah who are gonna be helping us with the projector screen mount. Okay, what happened to the ones that are a complete circle? I also got those ones. You also got those. I bought those ones and then Colin- Whatever, it's just AMD's money anyway, right? Exactly, it works. Actually, I think he spent all the budget, so I think it's my money now, but sure. I didn't spend all the budget. I have like $400 left. I don't know. I see a lot of stuff here. I assume you want the screen centered to the bed? Yeah, if it makes sense. Trust the process. No. Bye. I don't. Help. It's broken. Certified, not a stud. Oh boy, you guys say there's a problem. I walk in, there's a hole in the ceiling. Is that related to the problem? Yes. If you take this stud finder and go right beside it, it'll say that a stud is right between that hole, but there ain't no stud there, homie. Oh, well it's a metal stud. That's your problem. Yeah, that's what I then found out. Okay. Wait, you put two holes in the ceiling? Yeah, because I was like, oh, I'll try the other one. See if I was just wrong on this one and I'm wrong on both. It's a good thing they're small holes. It's a good thing it's an auto-textured seal. Yeah, that is an actual good thing. It's a good thing you've got a lot of paint touch-ups to do already. We could use the gigantic pilot hole that we drilled to throw a toggler in there, and then we could just hang this off of the metal stud. Yeah. Okay. Possibly. As long as we have some, oh. I already looked at that option. These are what's supposed to go in it, and they're not even like close. I see. Yeah. Oh God, another piece broke off this HBA. Okay, be careful. Well, I did. I didn't mean to. I really, really, sincerely hope that. No, no, that's a good noise. What's in it? Is it just a cable? Is it broken? Hold on, no, no, everything's fine. Yeah? Yeah, everything's good. I just need to, hey, there you go. It's like, you know, when your car turns on, it's like, that's how you know it's working. Hey! We've got the AMD RAID detected. So that means that the SSD card. Okay, now I just need the other three SATA SSDs to pick up. Sick! The last thing I need to figure out then is why the SATA drives are not showing up. Cool. Because the HBA's broken. Is it just because the HBA's broken? It might just be. Hey, you know what? This board has enough SATA ports that I can just plug into there and we'll take the HBA out. That's what I was saying the whole time. Okay. Attempt number the third. Here we go. Hey, let's go. All right, we're good. Yeah. Your drives are all detected. Except the two ones. Except the two that we know could be detected if I pulled out the GPU. All right, this system is done. I'm going to close it up and then we can focus on that one and the TV mount and the projector and the projector mount. The range actually is part of the upgrade, but it was installed by a professional. No, it was installed by me. Oh. I'm a professional. I couldn't help noticing you have a lot of bananas for scale from the store. Yeah. Why are they all pink? I asked for, like I asked for six and I don't think they caught on that I wanted all the colors. Oh, I see. Yeah. So now I just have a bowl of pink bananas with one that has white stuff on the tip. Before I get too far ahead of myself installing the cooler, I should probably install the CPU. Naturally, as a baller with more SSDs than since, Alex has gone with the 7950 X3D. This was necessary for all of the nineties games, I guess? Yes. Got all that 3D V-cache to run at the highest FPS, the lowest latency, like 1200 frames per second. Playing 90 games, playing nineties games. I'm a speed runner. You get it? Speed runner. Hey, this is going smoothly. Oh, that's a little dirty. There, I fixed it. Oh, oh, that's awful. Oh. I lived in a place with asbestos. I think I just inhaled half of your old rabbit. But hey, the system's almost done. All I gotta do is wire up SATA and power for that. Get another SSD. In the bottom of the case, throw the GPU in and I think we're good to boot this thing up. Holy schnikes. I got so distracted plugging in SSDs that I forgot to check in with you. You guys have done nothing. Well, yeah, because you said you wanted to see the idea before we did it. We got the hook here that will use our existing hole. So we just need to drill three more. And then we picked up like hooks that can go into this clip on and clip onto this. Okay. So then it'll actually be cleaner because it'll be easier to take down if he wants to just. Okay, oh yeah. Just like a standard carabiner then. Yeah. You know what? That's actually not that janky. Yeah, it looks a lot nicer. Okay. Yeah, cause it's got a foot of extra at the top anyway. So if you just pull it down a bit extra. Yeah, I think so. Okay. Hey, great job guys. Yeah, the guy at Home Depot said to do this one too. I don't believe you. Whoa, you put the side panel on? I put the side panels on before we tested the PC. Where do you want it Alex? Beneath. You want it on the bottom? Yeah, probably next to UPS right there. Sure. Don't drop it in my head. I'm not gonna drop it on your head. Yeah, sure here. I'll just run it around. No, no, no, it's not long enough. Here, just. Dude, it's not long enough. Stop. Hold on. Why you do that? Okay, sorry. Are you coming up? If you want it to work for not a giant troll, I'm sure there's plenty of other employers out there. Oh crap, that doesn't seem like it's working, does it? Buddy, come on. Wait, oh, the fan's just spun down. Hold on. I think we're gonna, I think we got this. Come on. Keyboard. Yeah, first try. Let's go. Oh wow, your cat did a number on this. Yep. Unless that was you. I mean. Look at that. I mean. All the RAM. So three SEDA, yeah, that's right. And then two M.2, right? No, it's almost like the other setup. Okay, we're good then. Yeah. I don't know if we're gonna get 6,400 mega transfers per second. That is really fast for an AMD CPU, but we're gonna try. Feel like it's time for a check-in with these guys, but I'm afraid to open this door. Oh, and I can't. You're missing a screw. Yeah, because there's a stud in that one spot. Oh, there's a stud there. Yeah, I couldn't get through it with the drill. Ah, brilliant. I tried pushing real tough. He pushed real tough. This one, I'm also hitting a stud here in this spot, and these ones aren't fully grabbing when they go all the way through. I see. So I'm trying to back them off a little bit to try to push them up more to see if it'll actually catch. It's not very straight. It's fine, you're looking at the movie, not the hooks. This was working. Then I tried to run the memory at 6,400, which kind of knew it wasn't gonna work. Okay, BIOS reset. That's okay, we kind of knew that was gonna happen. Oh, nice choice of board. You've got a clear CMOS button right on the back of the board. Love it. Now, where do you want your ruler? Um, drawer. Drawer? I don't think I'll fit. Okay, got them. That was the whole, that was the whole setup. Here we go. Don't stand right under it. You ready? Oh, no, no, I'm trusting it. I'm trusting it. Professional crew. I don't see you. All right. That's perfect. Big improvement. They do have calculators for this, but we're just gonna kinda, you know, figure it out. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. It needs to be like right where the light is. Oh, my God. It needs to be like right where the light is. Oh, my God. It needs to be like right where the light is. I don't think we could have done this any worse if we had actually tried. Yeah, I'm sorry. I think this really is not a today thing because it goes right there. Is there anything else you need drilled? Yeah, I need my TV mounted. Is there anyone else you would like to do it this time? Yeah, you? Really? No. Because I... No. Yeah. No, you just gotta keep going. More? Yeah. Oh, cool. I have space for a plant now. Yeah. Oh, wait. Wait, hold on. I'm pretty sure that if a saw blade came flying out of that crack, it would cut my dick off. That's great. Here's a tech tip for you guys. Windows 11 requires an internet connection for setup now, except it doesn't. You can press shift F 10 and then type the command Ubi slash bypass NRO. And we shouldn't need it anymore. We should have the option next time to click. I don't have internet, which we do, except that we need drivers for our network interfaces that we can't install until we... You know, you don't have to use the biggest drill bit every single time, right? That's why I took it off. You just saw me take it off. I saw you holding it. I saw you thinking about it. I use that one for the ceiling holes. Yes, I saw that. Are you a left starting a new guy? I already moved it over there. Yeah. But there's this like registry hack apparently to get it back on top, like in windows 10 and before. Oh, that's right. I forgot. You're a top task bar guy. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Explain. I had a Linux phase for a bit and there's that. There's the, just it's on top for max. If you don't factoring the doc and my, I realized my eyes were always looking up, like rather than at the bottom for notifications or not. So I just, yeah. And why would you adapt to your computer when your computer can adapt to you? Not anymore. That's the Linux mindset and it's not wrong. Okay. Let's get this, let's get this media console looking fly if we can. I am so excited to plug these things in. We're going to have this so powered Alex. Okay. This is actually looking kind of awesome. I just got to get some of these cables up here. We're close enough to the media console that you don't really see the cables running down, even though we haven't properly done a conduit yet. I'm just going to tie these up so that you don't really notice them so much. Wait, does armor or crate really install WinRar? Oh, I forgot to unselect it. Sorry. Yeah. Sorry. I just wanted the drivers. Are you a WinRar? I'm a WinRar. Are you a big winner? Well, sorry, you're the proud owner of a WinRar trial now. A permanent trial. That's a lot of CPU cores doing nothing. 2% usage. Yep. Cool. Oh, I never updated you guys. For memory, we settled in at I think 5,400 megahertz. With some tuning, we can definitely push it higher, but I wanted something that was, well, fast. Set it to a safe setting. Wow, this looks great. Great. So you got, who controls building things like towers and defenses? So this is AI control. So your goal is basically to protect your base, unless there's a side quest or a side goal, sometimes capture the fly, you know. Got it. It's like you take command and conquer and bring it down to like, you're just like an infantry man. Cool. Yeah. But there's no player who actually plays the RTS component. Not in this version. Got it. Kind of cool. Yeah. Maybe give it a shot guys. And maybe give a shot to checking out some of our other AMD ultimate tech upgrade videos. The premise is simple. $5,000, you can get anything you want and it is amazing how much you find out about someone.