- Normally I'm the guy who makes the guide for how to build a PC. But today we're shaking things up. We're doing something different. I will be following the
guide to how to build a PC, but not just any guide, the most infamous guide
in PC building history. The one created by The Verge. I don't know if I'm ready. No, I'm ready. - It's dangerous to go alone, take this. - The hell am I going to do with this? This video is brought to you by CableMod. CableMod allows you to
personalize the look of your PC with custom colored sleeve cables. Try out their configurator
and build your cables exactly how you want them with their realistic cable
preview at the link down below. (cheerful music) Oh, this is hilarious. I actually need the tweezers. (Stefan laughs) - There's a screw stuck in it.
- Oh, stuck in it? - Now, we're done with them. Step one, find the guide. Unfortunately, the original
upload is no longer there. What's the story behind that? - There were some lawyers involved. Someone wanted to do a
takedown notice of it. I didn't greenlight that and apparently that
just made people angry. - But the original guide on The Verge, that's gone now. - The written portion
is still up there, yeah. - Is it really?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah. Essentially, that's the script that was supposed to be turned
into an hour long video. Maybe around three o'clock they were like, do you think we can finish up at four so we can head out early? I did not get to see it until
48 hours before it went live. And that's on the next Friday. So I can't tell my
editors, I can't call Neli, I can't tell anybody that this is crap. It goes up on Monday at 8:00 AM. That's it. - All right, let's do it. - [Stefan] First you need a table. - First you need a table, all right. - A table.
- We got a table. I'm not going to lie. I built my first computer on the floor. I did.
- I did. - I actually did. - The first computer I ever
upgraded when I was four was Windows 2000 to XP and
that was done on the floor, on the carpet with my dad, yeah. - Okay, so you don't need a table. That's fine. - [Stefan] The thermal paste applicator. An Allen wrench. Some tweezers to tight up the wires. A Swiss army knife, which hopefully has a
Phillips head screwdriver. - Now this--
- Is much better. - Unfortunately it doesn't have a Phillips screwdriver on it. - Right, but it cuts things.
- But it'll cut things. - It'll work.
- You looked really nervous. - Yeah, at that point that
was my fourth machine. That was my first time doing it on camera. - But these are not tweezers. - They are not tweezers,
those are cable ties. - These are cable ties. He does know, guys. - Last but not least,
an anti-static bracelet. - Okay, bow this seems like it
was just one of those things where you had a misunderstanding
at some point or another, but those bracelets have no
anti-static functionality. - You have to be, yeah. - So here, give us the demo. How do you use an actual
anti-static bracelet? This housing is grounded as part of the design of this table. So now we are grounded. Also we did a video
recently with ElectroBOOM where we demonstrated that
actually it's very difficult to kill your hardware. (ElectroBOOM screaming) Bottom line, what tools
do you need to build a PC? - [Stefan] Screwdriver, cable
ties, a knife or a sharp edge, - Some kind of cutting
implement of some sort. You might need an Allen key. But odds are if you do, it will be included with
whatever part requires it. - [Stefan] Place items into the case and make sure that they all
fit and then start working. - Okay, now we've jumped
ahead a little bit here. - Yeah, so they were like, can you do all of this stuff top-down? And then the portions where
we're facing front of you, like, we'll do it normally. - But we're going to do our
best today to follow the guide. - Cool. - So, oh, apparently we need our case. And our power supply. - So let's get that. - Just trying to match
the state of preparation of the case here. I've got this panel off. I've my got accessory boxes removed, but the sleds are back in there. I couldn't understand who
it was geared towards. We had this baby simple
explanation of what a computer is at the beginning, and then the guide portion,
all of a sudden I'm going, whoa, whoa, hey, whoa,
now hold on a second. - Yeah, super complex, yeah. What we're doing right
now should have been in the original video. That's all cut out. Yeah. - This is an RM850 rather than an HX850, but hey, close enough.
- Close enough, close enough. - All right, and then in
terms of fan placement, now you did take some flack over this. I'm not sure if it was entirely fair. But I would recommend in a case like this that the fan be oriented
to the outside of the case. That way it's drawing in nice fresh air and then exhausting it out the back as kind of its own isolated thermal zone. Oh, you know what? We might just need that
Swiss army knife here. Okay, you know what?
- Nice. - Gorgeous. - And now we're really
going to start building. - [Linus] We've got this continuity error with the power supply at
the wrong end of the table. - And screw in with confidence, but also don't screw in too hard otherwise you could crack the board. - Now the odds of cracking
the board are pretty slim, unless you're really going ham, in which case it's actually true. That can happen. The most common instances of cracking the motherboard though, are when you've made another mistake, say for example, you didn't install one of
your motherboard standoffs. And I've seen this happen even with people who have built PCs before. If you keep screwing, when one of the standoffs is
missing and there's no support, a lot of the time that screw thread is actually the same as the threading on the motherboard tray itself. And you can crank the
motherboard down and crack it. - [Stefan] And so it has
support for NVMe SSDs, meaning you can get really fast SSDs that are really easy to install. - Now that part's a little awkward. Let's get our power supply
screwed in real quick here. And then we'll go from there. By the way, that's our new screwdriver that we're coming out with. - Sweet, so it's LTT?
- It is. - This is magnetic tip also?
- Of course. - Nice.
- Only the finest for the LTT viewers. It's not actually out yet, but
it will be on lttstore.com. - Gotcha. - Looks good. Now, Stefan, did you study up
at all for the build today? - Yes, I watched a couple of your videos. - You did watch a couple of our videos. And do you kind of realize
now at this point that like, there were definitely some things you could have done better in the video. - Yeah, of course. - Okay, this is definitely one of them. - Like, the back plate for
that motherboard is one. - Yeah. - When I realized that I didn't put it on and I'd already screwed
in the motherboard, not cracking it though thankfully. So I took it apart from this point, that's why there's a continuity error. - Right. The reason I never did a react video was because most of the
mistakes that you made here were ones that I have made
at some point or another, including this one. If we're being honest with ourselves, if you've built more than a
dozen or a couple dozen PCs, you might've accidentally put
the motherboard into the case without installing the IO shield before. And truthfully, the way Stefan
is correcting his error here, you can actually see what
he's doing with his hands. He's unscrewed the
motherboard, slid it back, he's installing the IO shield, and then obviously in order
for the finished shots of the build to be completed, the motherboard has been
slid back into place and screwed in. It's not wrong, but it's
not helpful to a beginner is the issue here. What the? Don't include that. (laughs) You know what? Actually let's include that. I put this in upside down. This is even though I have built probably hundreds of computers on camera. So something people don't realize is when you're doing
something for yourself, you would turn it around and
you would be looking at it like this while you're working on it. So it's a lot easier to
line up where the holes are. But when you're doing
something to present to camera, especially if you're not used to it, it can be very easy to make
these sorts of mistakes. And it's not worth
crucifying people over them. Although if I can speak frankly, I think you probably could have avoided at least some of them the backlash by just kind of going, you know what, I screwed up in the first place. So--
- Why didn't I? - Why didn't you? - Everyone at The Verge
were just looking to me to lead that situation
and it's sort of like, either you back down and you let all these
people steamroll you, or you keep it up there. And my original advice
was to keep it up there and then now lawyers get involved and then it gets taken down. - Okay, I can tell you the
advice you got was really bad. - It was really bad, yeah. - That was bad advice. I would not have given that advice. I mean, internally when
we upload something that is clearly problematic. - Rectify it.
- We fix it. Once and for all, this is
your redemption story Stefan, go for it. - Cool, cool, cool. Yeah, there we go. There we go. Okay, thank you. - This corner wants--
- A little bit more. - I can see you have been
watching some of my guides. He's holding the
motherboard by the heatsink. - Yeah, heatsink, yeah. - As someone who's built a
lot of computers on camera, I could at least relate to
almost, not all of the mistakes, but a lot of the ones that
were made in the video. - [Brandon] Basically everything
is twice as hard on camera. - And takes three times as long. That's it, I think we're in. you always want to do a sanity check for where your standoffs are located. Sometimes the case manufacturer
installs them for you, but your motherboard
manufacturer had other ideas. So make sure all of them are
visible through the holes. There's an empty one.
- Yep. - This is the kind of
thing that I would catch if I'm taking my time doing it properly. Stefan and I have set aside
about three and a half hours to shoot this build for you guys. But it's something that
can be easily missed if you're under pressure
and you're being rushed. And this can be a killer. This right here can short out the traces on the back of the board and fry it. So let's go ahead and get that removed. Now you guys see me kind of
standing here supervising. That's one of the reasons that, again, I didn't get personal about
what went up in that video and that's because to me it looked more like a systemic problem. Someone, especially who has never done something before on camera should have an experienced supervisor making sure that they don't
say or do anything dumb because it happens, right? And that's the role that I'm playing here that was clearly completely
absent at The Verge. How the (bleeping) did that
video ever get uploaded? - After that they told
me that that would be their new policy moving forward. Evidently. - Good. How helpful is that for you?
- Right? - All right, let's get this screwed in. Actually, hold on. We should be following the guide. - Yeah, we should be following the guide. - So the guide doesn't screw
in the motherboard yet. - [Stefan] Pay close
attention to the brace that goes at the-- - Okay, you called it a brace. - It's an IO shield. Because there's no screw,
it really just has to go outside of the case and clasp. - Okay.
- Yeah, that was done from the outside,
should've been from inside. - That was another one, should be from the inside. But I can see your hands. You wouldn't have gotten it in if you were putting it
in from the outside. - It's just, yeah. - You know, it's the verbal equivalent of fat fingering something, you know? - And this is very important because otherwise you can't align the motherboard correctly with the holes. - The reason it's important is because it acts as an EMI shield. Strictly speaking, the computer will completely
function fine without it. It's a bit of an outdated way of thinking now that we have so many computer cases that have glass or acrylic side panels, like how silly is it to
think that these little gaps are where all the EMI is going to get out, but that is their original purpose. Those aren't the right screws.
- Nope. - So this is the redemption moment. Show me the correct screws
for the motherboard. Another thing that can be tricky
for inexperienced builders is that you can actually
have multiple types of screws with the same threading
included with your parts. For example, I'm holding an M3 button head that would be intended for something like screwing your motherboard
into your standoffs, as well as an M3 countersunk
screw that would be intended for installing an SSD onto a tray so that the button head wouldn't stick out and cause interference as
you slide it in and out. And in many cases, these could be used interchangeably. They're just not supposed to. I noticed you were using
a countersunk screw and that's one of the things
people got very mad about. - It's pretty fast RAM, it's
2666 megahertz, I believe. - People were rally mad
about the speed of the RAM, 2666 megahertz being not fast enough. I don't entirely disagree, though, with the choice of the RAM. At that time, I think the gaming community was just coming around again
to the idea of fast memory being really important
for gaming performance. The main thing is that you
were a little behind the times. I see why people were mad. I also see how the mistake happened. - It also had to do with
the budget of the build, but yeah, I get it. - Where did the budget come from? - The budget was not my idea. That was an editorial idea. They were like, let's make this approachable
for most people, let's set a budget. And I was like, okay, $3000. They're like, no, that's too high. I was like, well then it's
going to have to be $2000. And that's where that came from. - God, so it was just kind of arbitrary. - Just arbitrary. It had nothing to do with anything. if I wanted to use the
best parts I could have. Open the slots first and just aligning the stick
with the middle of the strip, not with the end, and just
lining that up with the logo. - That is not the best
explanation I've ever heard for how to align memory. Why don't you take another
crack at this one for me? - [Stefan] Let's do it. - We found some Vengeance RGB2666 CL16. Okay. Why don't we grab those
Ballistix sticks over there? - So you want to keep these slots open, otherwise you can't put the RAM stick in. And you want to align that
with the center partition so that once you press
down, you'll hear a click. - [Linus] Turn it around. - Yeah, this is the reality
of building a computer in front of a camera. - Ever try to put in a USB port while you're not facing it? It's kind of like that. - There we go.
- Oh, I see. There was actually another error here. You were installing
your sticks in the slots closest to the CPU, which almost always are
the less preferred slots. - So when you hear that solid clasp and you don't see the gold
connectors on the side. - Now that's interesting. Here it's in the correct slot. What happened there? - [Stefan] Probably like, photos, not paying attention in that moment. We're going to install the
hard drive or in this case, the NVMe SSD. - Using hard drive colloquially to describe an SSD
- Is bad. - Is about like calling a tower a CPU. It's kind of boomer terminology. - And it's only held down
by one screw and the latch. So it's really simple and
really straightforward. - I'm going to get you to install this SSD the way you did it there. - Okay. - Where'd our little screw go? - Good question. In a better place. (laughs) - Here it is.
- There it is. Okay, sweet. - All right. One of the big problems with
this portion of the video is that while Stefan
is actually installing the M.2 drive correctly, you can't see a thing he's doing because it's often not practical
to lower the table enough that the camera operator
can see down into the case. So that's why sometimes they
gotta get a little bit high. You want to go get high? When you're installing an M.2
SSD, usually either on the box or on the drive itself, you'll see a little code says M.2, 22, and then some other numbers. This one says 2280. So that tells us where to
install the threaded standoff so that we can correctly
install the drive. You can actually see it
labeled right on the drive. (beeping) You can see it labeled
right on the motherboard. See that verbal slip up. I said, see it labeled right on the drive, I was holding a drive. Now something you could
point at as an error in today's video is that we've put a PCI
express gen three drive in a PCI express gen four capable slot. But if we're not spending the
extra for a gen four drive, I would still recommend doing it this way. And then if you upgrade to a
gen four drive down the road, you can always move this down
to one of the beta slots, nothing prevents you from doing that. - Step four, we're going to
install the graphics card. - Okay. This is very out of order
because so far we've got not a whole lot of actual
computer built yet. And we're going to go
put the graphics card in, it's going to get in our way. - Yeah, it's huge. - Do you want to go for the 1080 again? Or do you want to upgrade it? - I want to upgrade it because, well, at the time that
the 20 series came out, I upgraded it and that's how I benchmarked and did the whole review. But no one knew it was
built on that computer. So you want me to install it now? - I mean.
- Yeah, okay. - I guess that's what
you said to do right? - [Stefan] Now which lane you choose depends entirely on what other parts you're going to put in the system. I'm just going to pick the top one because the SSD is at the bottom and I don't want to cover it. I just think it looks nice. Click down. Take your remaining brackets
and just put them in the spots that you haven't used. - I think what probably happened is you pulled off all the
brackets at some point during the preparation for the video and then forgot that they're all included and you don't have to take them out and put them back in.
- Back in. - Whoops. Show us how it's done then. As for which PCI express
slot to install it in, Stefan got it right. - But for the wrong reasons.
- Wrong reasons. The top one is correct, but
not because it looks nice. It's because that slot has its
full complement of 16 lanes connected directly to the CPU. So your graphics card being one of the most
bandwidth hungry components in your system wants as
many lanes as it can get. - [Stefan] This bracket
has been bent a little bit. - Yeah, just gonna rougharm it in there. - This is an old PC builder trick. - What's up? - If you've only got a
fraction of a hole exposed, what you do is you get the screw on there. As long as you have a nice
magnetic screwdriver it'll work. You just kind of, you just kind of lever it over, and then you can screw it in. - Screw it in, gotcha. I'm geeking out more
about this than the PC. Cause it's just really,
really useful, right? - What, not a Swiss army knife? - Nope.
(Linus laughs) I once asked for food recommendations and I would lead with, I
already tried the thermal paste, it does not taste good. By the way, don't eat thermal paste. - [Linus] Yeah, please
don't, I was gonna-- - It's in the same category as Tide Pods. Don't do it. - Now that we've challenged them... - (laughs) You, no, no, no, no, no. Always be sure to try to
place it in the system first before you install it 'cause you can see it
takes up a lot of space. - That's a fair point. - [Stefan] But in this
case, no pun intended, it fits in perfectly.
- Got 'em. - [Stefan] And we're going
to start screwing it in. And there's nothing special
about this screwing in process. They're just really long screws because they go through the
entire frame of the cooler. - Ugh. So what happens if you do that? - Well, you could possibly
puncture the lines and that would be pretty bad. - Yeah, it could cause a leak, especially in a case where the radiator is above the motherboard.
- And above the GPU. - Most modern radiators
are actually designed so that the tubes, these flattened tubes, that's where the water
actually passes through it, are offset from the screw holes. So many people have made
this mistake over the years that they've changed the
way they design radiators to account for it. In fact, confession time, I have an old ThermoChill PA 120.3 that has a punctured tube. Although I fixed it,
still works to this day. - [Stefan] That's dope. Oh, we're a little wide actually. I'm going to try to squeeze
it in from an angle maybe. - Uh oh.
- Uh oh. - Did we misconfigure the system? This is the kind of thing
that we'd normally like to gloss over in the edit. Now in the old days,
cases used to come apart and it made it a lot easier
to do stuff like that. You know what? - You might be able to
take that top apart. - I think the top panel
actually comes off this case. The Verge guide has not yet told us to plug in the eight
pin CPU power connector, but I'm going to do that now because that thing is going to be darn near impossible to get at once we have this radiator installed. We made another significant mistake. - [Stefan] Oh boy. - We didn't put our CPU mounting backplate.
- Plate. - Yeah, we didn't put the backplate on. This is the perfect merging of The Verge's PC building skills and Linus Tech Tips' PC building skills where I'm going to show you guys how to jankily undo the mistakes you made because you used The Verge's guides. You can see that once you've
undone three of the screws, that's actually a fair bit of
play in the motherboard here. Fits the thingamabobber there. And I'm just going to bend
the motherboard a little bit. Yeah, you got it threaded in?
- Yep. - Okay, great. I'll try to line up the rest of them. See, I told them we were going to do like, a totally right one. I let the team down. The difference is I'm out
here sharing the bullet. You know what I need?
- What's up? Tweezers.
- Get some tweezers in there. Oh yeah. Stefan, is that lined up? - Yes it is lined up.
- Yeah it is! - Oh my gosh.
- What are the odds that following The Verge PC build guide would result in errors.
- Result in errors. - And go down this way. That might actually be how they intended for you to do it. - It's a tight squeeze. - That's really tight.
- Gosh. - Every power supply is going to come with a big bag of Velcro cables. More like braided. - Yeah, braided sleeving. And only modular power supplies
come with a bag of cables. - Next step is we're
connecting the power supply to the motherboard with the 24 pin cable. - All right. Wanna get us at 24 pin here? - See, where, there we go. - So our 24 pin end goes here and then I'll get Stefan to show you the other end on the other side. - The next few additions
will be for the GPU, for any specific ports that the case has, for any lighting that the
case has, the CPU cooler. - We already did our eight pin
for the CPU, that's up here. So next what we're going to do is let's get our case front
panel headers connected. This is made a little bit more difficult by the fact that we have
already installed our GPU. And we're going to start with our USB 3.0. So can you pull this through
for me on the other end? The flat one. You gotta watch out for this guy. Very fragile, but it only goes in one way so as long as you're gentle,
shouldn't be a problem. There we go. All right, sweet. USB 2.0, right there, boom. Front audio. I'm not even going to try
to do much better than that. You know, I gotta say, I'm actually pretty surprised
that not only did you agree to come and do this with me,
but that you reached out to me. - The reason why I didn't
get to talk to you at all was contract stuff, right? So I was like, if it's not going to be
done right the first time, it's gotta be done right at some point.
- At some point. Now we're going to do our
front panel switches and LEDs. So the power switch goes, you know what? Let's do the power switch last. Power LED, this one,
positive negative does matter because your LED won't
work if you do it wrong, but you won't actually damage anything by putting it on the wrong way. So we're going to go ahead and plug it in. Oh wow. This case has two different
spots to put the power LED on, that's a little bit confusing
for first time builders. So at the top left corner here, you'll see a positive
one at the very top left. Then we're going to take our reset switch. We're going to put it in
the next two pins over on the bottom. And then we're going
to do our power switch right above the reset switch. And then I'm going to get you to pull the extra slack for all of these through to the other side.
- Roger that. - Perfect.
- Sweet. - That looks great. Now we can use a single cable for this, one with two eight pin connectors with a little kind of daisy chain loop. But some builders are
preferring these days, especially with higher power GPUs, to put two separate eight pins in. It's not likely to cause
any sort of problem to plug both of these in, but particularly if
you have a power supply that is a multi rail design, you can overwhelm the
over-current protection on a single port, especially if you have a super
power hungry graphics card. And the efficiency of
using separate cables because they won't heat up
as much is marginally higher. So here you go. I'm passing these through to you. Roger that.
- I want them under the 24 pin. The amount of backlash
and the number of memes that were generated
from that original video probably actually taught more
people from your mistakes than if the video had just
gone up and been correct. The last thing our wonderful guide asked us to plug in all
at once (chuckles) is, here we go, the RGB and power
connectors for our fans. And we're going to go number four. Great. And number, oop, hello. Number four. Great. We gotta do these two
SATA power connectors for our fan hub, as well as our RGB hub. This just goes anywhere it fits, just like the rest of the
power supply connectors. These, you just gotta watch out. They got the little L
shape on the end there. Make sure they go in such as they go in. Let's continue, shall we? - A Core i7 hexacore CPU. Yeah, we've got one. - We've got one too. Okay, you won't have
seen one of these before. These are little 3D printed holders that we make for our CPUs.
- Okay. - So just--
(electronic beeping) - [Stefan] And this just flies right off. - [Linus] Just comes right off. - And this will make it easier for us to apply it to the motherboard, apply thermal paste, and then
apply a CPU cooler on top. And we're just going to carefully lean it down into the system and make sure that everything lines up and we're going to clasp it down on it and we'll be good to go. - All right, about to put in there. - So we're about to apply
the thermal paste to the CPU. Every CPU cooler actually comes with a bit of thermal paste
already neatly applied in a circle around it.
- Okay, not every one, but many do. And if you have it pre-applied-- - It's enough.
- That's enough. - Practice to have a little
bit extra and layer it on top. That's way too much. - With that said, Steve from Gamers Nexus actually did a video proving that you cannot put too
much thermal paste on a CPU. The worst you can do is make a mess. - [Stefan] So you're going to see that there are four brackets, or rather like, screws in here. - I can tell this is attempt number two by the fact that the paste is
already kind of spread out. Now our cooler, because
it's been used before, it does not have any
pre-applied thermal compound. So Stefan, yes, we do need
to apply thermal paste. Why don't you show us how it's done? - I'm just trying to make sure it doesn't all come out at once. - There we go.
- There we go. - That's all we need. So now we take our cooler and oh no, I didn't think of this beforehand. Well, it's probably appropriate
that the Corsair logo is upside down.
- Upside down. - (laughs) This is the distressed PC. Now, this is another
order of operations thing. It might've been a little
bit nicer to do this earlier in the process. But that's not the end
of the world though. You know what? I've got an idea. This is one of my favorite little tricks. Undo one screw on the motherboard,
cram something under it. They can just kind of tuck in there. I'm a tucking expert.
- Nice. - There we go. Whoo! Not my finest cable management work, but no one will ever see it. Now it is bad jeebies to close up the side panel of a computer before you power it on.
- And not close the front. - Oh, they're both plugged in.
- Yeah, they're good. - We're ready to go. Let's freaking do it!
- Let's try to POST. - Verge PC Build 2.0, test 1.0. Oh crap, we didn't turn
on the power supply. Verge Build 2.0, test 2.0. (laughs) Got lights.
- We've got lights. - But do we have POST?
- We have camera. - We have action. - Come on, action. Wouldn't it be funny if they sabotaged us, gave us some broken hardware? Nah, we're good. Core i7 11700K, we got 16 gigs of memory. - Two keyboards, two mice, two hubs. - Ladies and gentlemen, that's right, we've got it. (laughs) - Thanks a lot, man. (laughs)
- No, thank you. This was an absolute blast. Thank you for coming and putting up with my jokes.
- No worries. - Thank you for coming
out and just owning it. - No problem.
- I mean, yeah, I love it. That's a redemption story
if I've ever seen one. So where can they find you if they want to get tips on
maybe not building PCs, but? - If you want to keep up with anything I'm writing
on, anything I'm working on, @StefanEtienne on Twitter, which I'm sure a lot of you
already know where to find me. And laptopmemo.com, the tech
blog I ran since I was like 12. I update that every so
often with cool stuff that I find like, grow
lights or like grow boxes, or tech like this, computers. - Cool. And you guys know where
to find our sponsor. Ting Mobile has new rates
that make it easier than ever to see how much you can save by switching. They've got unlimited talk
and text for just $10, data plans starting at $15 a month with their new Set 12 plan, which has 12 gigs of data for $35 and unlimited data for $45 a month. And if you liked their previous pay for
only what you use plans, they're still there. They're called Ting
Mobile's Flex Plans now and they charged us $5 a gig. One cool thing about the flex
plans is data can be shared if you have a family plan so you can connect more
phones to save more. You'll still get nationwide
coverage in the US and award-winning customer service. And pretty much any phone
will work with Ting Mobile. Just head to linus.ting.com
and you can get a $25 credit in addition to your other savings. Hope you guys enjoyed this video. If you did, maybe check out, I dunno, Linus reacts to xQc's PC build. It was actually more cringe-worthy
than this one for sure. That ended up looking pretty fly. - [Stefan] It looks pretty good.