So I want to tell you about a letter I got a little while ago that I only just got around to reading. Actually it was in 2003 that it arrived but I only just found it on the floor; my study is very messy. So the author is a contributor to the OEIS, a former contributor, I have- think I have to say, called Claude Lenormand. He suggested two transformations of sequences; his second transformation that introduced a word I didn't know - a French word - called a rabot. This is a rabot, a plan- a carpenter's plane. And his transformation is to take a sequence or a word, a string of numbers, and plane them down, raboter, planing the sequence. What you plane down are the runs in a sequence. If we have a sequence you might be tossing a coin and you might get heads, heads, tails, tails, tails, heads, tails. You look at the runs - here we've got a run of two heads, so we get a two. We write down the length of the runs - 3, 1, 1 - so the runs transformation of a string, a sequence, is the lengths of the runs, that's the runs transformation. What the the plane does it shortens all the runs by one, by one turn. So if we had a run of three things, in the transform thing we've got a run of two things so we shorten all the runs, that's the operation of raboter. So you remember in one of the earlier Numberphile videos you did, you mentioned a sequence of my old friend Sol Golomb. And this is distinguished by the fact that it's a sequence of numbers. It's the- has the property that there- it's an increasing, I should say non-decreasing, sequence, it keeps growing and it has the property that if you look at the runs length you get the same sequence. All right I'll just do a couple of terms: 1, 2, 2 - how do we continue? Golomb sequence, the 1 means the first run has length 1. So we start off with a run of length 1, and then we've got a run of some other numbers. And you always pick the smallest number so the next number has to be a 2. That 2 says the second run has length 2 so we've got two 2s. And now that 2, which is the third term,
says the third run has length 2. So so yeah so it continues 3, 3, and then 4, 4, 4, 5, 5, 5 - this will probably make it clearer. So this 2 refers to those two. The third term is 2 and that says the third run of successive identica
l terms has length 2. Well okay we've got our first run, our second run, our third run has to have length 2. So that means we've got two 3s. The fourth term, and that says the next run has length 3. So there are going to be three 4s, that 3 says three 4s. This 3 says, aha, three 5s.
- (Brady: So there'll be four 6s?) There are gonna be four 6s! Very good. And there are going to be four 7s from that 4; and that 4 says there are going to be four 8s, and that 5 says there are going to be five 9s. That's the defining property. It's non-decreasing, you always put down the smallest number you can, and it must be its own runs transformation. 
So that's Golomb's sequence. Now if we apply Le Rabot to it, and we plane it down, what are we going to do? Well we're going to cross off that 1. We've got two 2s so we throw away one of them. We've got two 3s we throw away one of them. We've got three 4s we throw away one. Five; we just shorten all the runs - we apply the plane, le rabot. And what we get, the new sequence, is simply 2, 3, 4, 4, 5, 5, 6, 6, 6, 7, 7, 7 and so on. So this is the planed down version of Golomb's sequence. In Claude's letter he gave the example of the Golomb sequence and how to raboter it. So I thought it would be very interesting to apply the plane, le rabot, to the numbers to the ordinary numbers written in binary. Now remember the rule is when you plane it down, if it's got a run of length 1 it goes away. So zero, well, becomes zero, so we get zero. 1 goes away and we get zero. 1 goes away, zero goes away, and we get zero. 11 becomes 1 in base 2, which is 1 in base 10. So our new sequence is what you get when you plane down the numbers. So we get 000, this is the base 2 version, this is the base 10 version. So 1 0 0 we lose the 1 and we shorten that zero and we get zero. 1 0 1 - zero, base two is zero base ten is zero. Here now finally we get something interesting; we lose the zero and we lose a 1 so we get 1. Here 1 1 1, we lose the 1, we got 1 1, which is 1 1 which is 3. So the sequence that we're going to
get goes 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 3. This one we lose that and that and we get zero; this we lose the 1 and that and we get zero; and 10 we lose everything and 11 we lose that that and that and we get 1. 12 we lose a 1 and a zero and finally we get a 2. We're doing 13, we lose that and that and that and we get a 1. Because 12 is 1 1 0 0 it becomes 1 0 which is 2. 13 which is 1 1 0 1 we lose the 1 the zero and one of the 1s and all we are left with is a 1. When we get to 14 we lose a zero and a 1 and we're left with 1 1 which is 3. And 1 1 1 1, which is 15, we lose the 1, we get 1 1 1, and we get 7. And when we get down to 16 we get zero again. So that's- and we keep going forever. So this is the planed down version. This has a very nice sound, you know you can listen to any any of the 300,000 sequences in the OEIS and I would like to play this sequence for you: (How have you turned it into music?) 
- We- imagine that we have a grand piano, that's the basic thing, and we number the keys 0, 1, 2, 3, up to 87 - it's got 88 keys. We take the number and we divide by 88 and keep the remainder, we reduce it mod 88. So that gives us something we can play on the grand piano. So if they're- these numbers you can see are all pretty small so it stays down here at the bottom of the keyboard for quite a long time until we get up to some very big numbers, before we actually have to round them down. (Why do you like that piece of music?) Why do I like it? Well it has that rhythm to it, it goes da da da da da da and those those repetitions are because of the binary expansion. And then every so often like at powers of 2 minus 1 
we get a bigger number. And before it we get some other big numbers, so there's a rhythm. So the sound, the sounds, reflect the structure of the binary numbers; but processed, it's not just the straight binary numbers. (Neil, as you keep planing the binaries,) (obviously we were we were staying pretty) (low there with those numbers,) (do you start eventually getting some big) (numbers when you
turn them into, you know,) (base 10?) Yeah certainly. When we got up to say 2 to the 20 minus 1, plane off 1 we get nineteen 1s in a row, so eventually we get all - does every number appear? Yeah sure. Okay so there's an inverse operation which is extending all the runs by 1 bit and that works for any number. (What's that called? If that's- 
if that's le raboter) what do you call the other version?)
- I just called it expanding. Claude didn't mention it in his letter, but obviously you could do it. You expand all the runs by 1. And then if you applied his operation you'd get back to where you started, so you can get every number. So a question is, after you've planed down a number how big is it? What's the average value after you plane it down? So I looked at that and I asked some friends for help and they proved my conjecture is correct. If n is k bits long in binary, in other words if it's a k-bit number. So for instance here are all the three bit numbers: there are actually four of them. A three bit number, beginning with 1 of course, apart from zero every binary number begins with 1. So we could have 1 0 0 all the way up to 1 1 1. So there are um 2 to the k minus 1 three bit numbers, there are two squared numbers, there are four of them. What's the average value? Well it happens to be, we had four numbers whose sum is four so the average value afterwards is 1. So what happens for a k-bit number? I conjectured that the average value after is exactly three halves to the power k minus 1 minus a half. And the way I found that was I worked out the average, you can see I just worked out the average for 3-bit numbers and I got 1. If you do that for the first 20 or 30 terms you get a sequence. What you do when you get a sequence? You look it up in the OEIS. And it is sequence A027649, which is the integer three halves to the k minus 1 minus a half. So the answer to this question, how big is what you get, it's about three halves to the k. So n was about 2 to the k and we shrunk it down to three halves to the k, so that's the answer. You might remember these pieces of pi we shared with Numberphile 
supporters a while back? Well they were so popular we've now created these unique views of our beloved Mandelbrot set. Each piece is individually numbered and is a one-off perspective; a different location, a different magnification. If you'd like us 
to send you one, find out more in the link we've included below. I want to talk about approximating pi in the Mandelbrot set, maybe it's best to do a little bit of a reminder about what 
the Mandelbrot set is? So remember the Mandelbrot set was this object that we have in the complex plane; so here are the real numbers, and here imaginary numbers. And the Mandelbrot set was a collection of complex numbers, so I'll try and sort of draw a nice version of this here...