- There are a plethora of
reasons to transition your daily driver gaming rig over to Linux. - You could be sticking it to the "man" - Or wanting to support
the open source community. - Maybe you daily drive
Linux for work already. - And all your games are
natively supported anyway. - Or maybe you just want a
new and challenging hobby. - But if what you want is a simple, painless gaming experience, then let this be a cautionary tale. One of trials, tribulations and of course the sponsors. Thanks to Airglow for
sponsoring this video. Airglow is a digital e-sim marketplace that allows you to directly download a flexible data plan for one of over 190 countries without ever
having to leave your living room. Try your first E-Sim
at the link down below. (Upbeat intro music) - For most of our one month challenge, Luke and I avoided specifically
seeking out titles that would either validate the
Linux gaming experience or intentionally make it look bad. We just focused on playing the
games that we would normally want to play. - Or at least we tried to
because not all the games that we wanted to play actually worked. The very first day I installed Linux. I also tried to play the
battlefield 2042 beta the previous day, still on windows, I owned some Noobs with my buddy Joe, and we wanted to play
again the next night, but that wasn't going to
happen due to this challenge. It was reassuring, I guess, that even more advanced Linux users were also unable to play, but that didn't actually
remedy the fact that I couldn't play games with my friends. - It's funny because I assumed
that this challenge would be more painful for me than
it would be for Luke. I mean after all, he has years of Linux experience while I came in with basically none. But here's the thing, I game him mostly by
myself as a way to relax or to hang out with my kids. And I am extremely flexible
about what game I'll play. If something doesn't work, screw it. I'll just play something else. Luke, on the other hand, whose social circle is deeply
immersed in gaming culture has so much more on the line if you can't solve a problem. - Yeah, like I literally had a friend ask, 'Hey dude, when are you going to be back?' Obviously I had never actually left, but I was a lot more difficult
to include as a lot of competitive games that have
anti-cheat just don't work. Or it took me so long to
get a lot of games to a satisfactory level that
by the time I was ready, everyone else was just
done gaming for the night. And as a lot of my friends like to just try random games out for fun, this actually happened a lot. - Our goal is not to spread FUD about the state of Linux gaming though. So it's time to get
specific about some of our 'less good' experiences. First up is steam or rather not steam Valves goal of reaching 100% compatibility with the entire steam game library is admirable actually incredible. As noted by this here, Reddit post the steam game library
is chock full of amazing gaming experiences from AAA studios and any developers alike. But it's also not the silver
bullet that it would have been ten or even five years ago
when nearly every game worth playing was available on steam. - Half of Twitch's top 20 games, at least at the time of
filming this, are not on steam. And I know being a popular
game to stream doesn't necessarily mean it's popular
with random gamers out there. But these are all very big
name games and being on steam isn't an automatic win either. Look at apex legends and new
worlds, both massive games, both listed as Borked on proton DB. - Native Linux games are obviously going to be your best bet. Want to try one of my personal
favorites, cross code, click install, click play and (Clicks fingers) as simple as that. I mean, I was amazed at how painlessly my Xbox one controller worked. Though I should note that I stuck with a
wired connection rather than trying to tackle
getting the unofficial XOW driver, working. Valheim meanwhile ran
amazingly and immediately. Demonstrating how even smaller developers can make it work if they've got the will. - In addition to that, while
not necessarily native, I played LegionTD2, Tower Fall
Ascension, faster than light, slay the Spire, path of exile and rust. And they all worked perfectly
with zero actual effort. And interestingly enough, Dota2 and CSGO both had
completely game breaking problems that weren't
isolated to my system during the challenge. They seem to be solved now, but it goes to show that
just like with windows, because a piece of software
was made for it doesn't mean it's actually going to be perfect. - I didn't have any issues running CSGO, even got me some kills boys, but I did notice
significantly more stutters than I'm used to seeing
on this class of hardware that could be an Nvidia driver issue, or it could be something else entirely. But for me, it worked well enough that I
didn't feel like digging any further into that rabbit hole. Not when I could be digging for
a sweet hoodie like this one on LTT store.com Instead. - The next tier is windows native games that valve officially lists as Linux capable via Steam play. But before we go any further, I just want to say massive
respect to the incredible teams who have worked tirelessly to make running windows
games on Linux possible. Valves proton compatibility
layer is amazing. It's forked from wine, which has been multiple decades
in the making with about half of its source code
written by volunteers. That's freaking wild. And of course honorable
mentions, all around, for the dedicated communities that maintain tools like Lutris, which automates hacky
workarounds for newbies and protonDB, which serves as both a
troubleshooting resource and a reference for which games work. So you won't have to waste
your money on a bad experience. With all of that said. In
spite of all of that work, we're honestly just not there yet. And we're mere months from the
launch of the steam deck when 100% compatibility is supposedly coming, which, as of writing this, just got pushed back by two months, to February. - Also Doom eternal reported
great performance on my system over 200 frames per second,
using the included tool. I'm kind of reminded of the
issues that we used to see in old SLI configurations where
the actual perceived animation smoothness is substantially
less than what the benchmark seems to suggest it should be. Again, I thought maybe this is an issue
with my proprietary and video driver. Maybe it set a date, but Manjaro begs to differ.
Apparently I am up to date. So your mileage may vary. Another problem that's been
a thorn in the side of the Linux community for years is anti-Cheat. Now the game launches and
seems to run totally fine. But while, theoretically,
enabling battle I anti-China in rainbow
six-seige is as simple as Ubisoft reaching out, doing a little bit of
conjiguring and off we go because BattlEye has supposedly
supported Linux for ages. Ubisoft hasn't done that yet. Why? - Well because natively supporting Linux as seen by some developers as a somewhat brutal experience. Ben Golus has a rather enlightening thread about this on Twitter. He goes on to explain that
while Linux gamers were a very vocal part of their prelaunch community, they accounted for less
than 0.1% of sales. Yet they generated more than
20% of auto reported crashes and support tickets. He also stated that near
the end of his time, there nearly 100% of tickets
were still Linux related. Despite Linux receiving the
majority of the engineering effort. Meaning the company likely spent hundreds of thousands of dollars supporting a community that
made them a few hundred in sales revenue. And this isn't the only
version of this story. And every time problems like these happen, it's just more ammo for
developers that would rather spend zero time working on Linux
versions of their products. I believe that is why over
65% of reported anti-cheat enabled games have not
confirmed Linux compatibility. Despite many of the anti-cheat
developers getting on board. - And as much as everyone
already knows it, it bears repeating. The fragmentation problem
continues to be desktop Linux's greatest obstacle
to widespread adoption. Take It takes two, for example. This is a gold rated,
windows native, origin game that I got running effortlessly. Though. I did buy it through steam and I did launch it through steam. At least it was effortless
until I wanted to have two controllers running at the same time. Kind of a requirement
for this particular game, If I want to play it with the wife. That sent me on a quest to proton DB to see if anyone else
had had the same problem and no, not really. Everyone else's problems
are basically random. So guess we're not
playing that game for now. One of my other favorite games, Supreme commander forged
Alliance was as simple to run as clicking install and enabling
a couple of launch flags. Awesome! But if you want to play
multiplayer, woo boy. Here's the story. When gas-powered games went
under a small community arranged to preserve multiplayer
support for the game, by building their own launcher. It is an amazing example of
the way that the PC gaming community can come together
to preserve experiences that would otherwise be completely lost due to corporate butt-holery. Unfortunately, every guide I could find to get the forged Alliance forever launcher working on Linux was either hopelessly out of date or not applicable to my particular distro. I don't blame the defs, really nothing but love for you guys, but Linux gamers and more broadly, the Linux community needs
to understand that until the burden of supporting Linux
is reduced significantly. This is always going to be a problem. - We actually live streamed trying to work through the
forge Alliance issues on float plane. Subscribe, by the way. There were more than a
few comments, in the chat, criticizing us for choosing
to play that particular game because 'it's old', 'it's just some crappy Java
game' 'it's, it's obscure' or because 'it's not fair to Linux'. Or whatever. - But the bottom line is
that none of that matters, what matters is that we like
it and we wanted to play it. But instead of doing that, we played terminal command simulator. And honestly, I've gone through enough of
that over the last month, that it has sucked a lot of the enjoyment out of using my computer. Like I have a pretty busy life. And when I managed to
salvage an hour to relax and play video games,
that is what I want to do. And it's really opened my eyes
to why so many people choose to play on console instead of on PC. Like this has gotta be how a
not super computer savvy user feels about updating a driver
or fixing a firewall setting every time they just want
to play a bloody game. - To be clear. I would never say that
just because some old game doesn't run, it means that Linux sucks. In fact, I've permanently switched my
laptop over to Linux because there are a lot of things.
It just does really well. Even for someone more on the
noob side of things like me. What it does mean is that gaming
on Linux can kind of suck. - It's not that I don't enjoy
tinkering with PCs as a hobby. I mean the rush when Anno 1800 launched after spending a bunch
of time fighting with it, it was phenomenal. I felt like the king, but
then the next 45 minutes of, okay, why isn't multiplayer connecting? Completely destroyed that vibe. You know. Is it because Luke installed
the game through the script on the lutris page and then I lutrised Ubisoft connect and installed
the game through that resulting in a version mismatch? Is it because of some kind
of Manjaro firewall nonsense? The answer ended up being
that multiplayer used to work, which helped Anno 1800 get
a gold rating on proton DB. But now it does not. - Which isn't to say it
won't ever work again. If you're a Linux developer wizard, you might be able to fix it yourself, or you might end up just needing
to wait for the community to patch it. But anything that relies on an
external service that updates independently of your computer
can just unexpectedly break. And that's a lot of games these days. - So you always need to
make sure that you read, especially the recent comments, rather than just relying
on the rating on proton DB. Another prime example of
this is Minecraft Dungeons. Works great apparently. Well, as long as you happen
to own it through steam, rather than through Microsoft directly with the old launcher,
because in that case, apparently you can make it work. But for most people, I think it's safe to say that
you're just going to have to re-buy the game. So I haven't been able to play
that with my kids in a month. - That ended up being an
ongoing theme of this challenge. Proton DB, again, respect
for all the work that you do. It can save you a lot of time, but it won't just automatically
fix all your problems. Gold, to me, should mean a
pretty typical gamer can do it. So while the rating system makes
for a very impressive story on the homepage, did you know fellow gamers that
78% of the top 100 games are gold or better on Linux? Wow. The truth is a lot less rosy. - And there's another big
problem with proton DB. It only includes steam games. And while you can use the proton
compatibility layer on non steam games, even considering
tools like lutris, the compatibility picture outside of steam is not as simple as, well Proton DB says Linux
gaming compatibility is good. - I mentioned escape from tarkov earlier. It's been broken for so long,
but due to battle state games, adding anti-cheat their Linux discord has turned
into a matchmaking channel for other games so they can
have some fun while they wait. Genshin impact, kind of
a huge game right now, no Linux compatibility. And while I did manage to
find a honestly really great Russian guide from penguin gang
that I could probably follow it illustrates a point
that I haven't really talked about much yet. Being on Linux can take
a lot of the spontaneity out of gaming. You can't just be like, oh, cool, That game looks neat and expect
to be playing it in just a few minutes. I also hope you're not necessarily
a fan of playing games, right on launch. Forza horizon five, for example, amazing, straight up fantastic that
people got it working within just five days of launch. But that also means that it
wasn't working for five days after the launch. And if all
your friends were playing, they'll now have sick
cars and you're stuck, trudging through the
swamps for a barn find. - To be clear, I don't want this to take
away from some of the great experiences that I've have had gaming on Linux in the last month, after an extremely short setup, my daughter was happily hanging out in a discord voice
channel with her siblings playing Minecraft Java edition and had no idea she was on a
completely different platform. That's freaking amazing, Luke and I had some awesome
don't starve together sessions, totally stable, no crashes. And more recently my son
and Luke and I had a blast pinning each other to walls, in TowerFall, using remote play together, which worked great on Linux. Overall, I'm really happy
I did the challenge. I learned a lot and it gave me
a lot of hope for the future. And I will absolutely be trying
to stick with Linux when the steam deck shows up sometime next year. But to summarize the question
that we set out to answer. Is this the year of the Linux desktop? For gamers, the answer is no, I'm sorry. And the more niche your
use case gets, you know, maybe you're super into modding
or the racing or flight SIM scenes, or maybe you're a big VR lover. The more resounding that 'No' gets. - And if I'm being honest,
I'm in the same camp. But something has given me a
lot of hope and that's how much positivity we've seen
from the Linux community in spite of our concerns. Because even if I'm not ready to convert my gaming rig just yet, it gives me hope that
one day the meme will end and the year of the
Linux desktop will come. I'm as anti-monopoly as anyone. And I'd hate to see the
status quo maintained forever. - I know what I don't hate is our sponsor. Thank Squarespace for
sponsoring this video. We use Squarespace like
no joke. We use it. Both our Linus media
group.com and LTX expo.com. Websites were built quickly
using Squarespace and are easily maintained. If we need to
make any quick changes. Like say canceling our expo
for two years in a row. If you haven't heard
already Squarespace is an all in one platform that makes it simple to get your website up
and running quickly. If you have a home business, you definitely need one.
You can even sell things. You can choose from tons of
different templates and find the one that makes the most sense for you, and then just run with
it. And if you trip, while you're running, you need help. Squarespace offers webinars,
a full series of help guides, or you can contact their 24 7
support team to help you build your site. So go to squarespace.com forward
slash LTT and get 10% off today. Now that the challenge is
over it's time to go back and watch the previous parts
because while the overall conclusion was no, there's a lot to really like
about the Linux experience.