- We have a thousand
dollars in gift cards. Hey, what's up, man? - Not much guy, how's it going? - Yeah, pretty good. - Good. - I saw that you needed some help. So I just wanted to give you those. It's just it's like a thousand dollars in random gift cards and stuff. - Thank you so much. - No problem. In the past, I've given large amounts of money to one person or a couple people. Today, I wanna do it a little different even if it's not as entertaining. I wanna use this $100,000 I have to help as many people as possible. So instead of just giving it away, we're actually gonna
use it to buy supplies for homeless shelters, deliver it all, and help 'em unpack it all. Instead of helping five people
let's help a thousand people. So the first thing I did was
I called the homeless shelter and I asked them to list
everything they needed. Can you just gimme a list of anything you need for your shelter? Like literally anything
and we'll go buy it. - [Person On The Phone]
Anything that you use on a daily basis in your house. - Anything that we use on
a daily basis in our house. We need that soap up there. Little oopsie. So the shelter has a
lot of younger children, so we're getting them a
bunch of diapers and wipes. I think that's enough wipes. - No.
- More wipes? - They need to wipe a lot. - I'm sure they need a lot of diapers. - Was that necessary? Was that one necessary? - What do you think would better the lives of the people that are in your shelter or just make their lives easier? Like what do you think
the people there need? - We definitely are in need of folding chairs. - Can we get this whole pallet? - Can we get a pallet of chairs? - Around like 40 or 50. - Can we get two pallets then? - Buckets of washing powder. - They said they wanted a lot of wind. So let's grab all the wind. - Hey, be careful and don't drop it. You don't wanna break wind. - Get outta here, man. Just leave. - Twin sheets. - Many twin sheets. - How many?
- All of them. - All of them?
- Yes. - Shout out to Dragon City
for letting us do this. - Yeah Dragon City's the best. Before we can continue to buy things to give to homeless
shelters to change lives, I need to tell you guys about Dragon City because they're the sponsor of this video. Dragon City is a free
to play game available on iOS and Android. Dragon City even made me my own dragon. They took my logo and made
an epic dragon out of it. They've only done custom dragons
for four other YouTubers. Which means me getting my own dragon, is an epic victory royale. Vanoss has done videos for them before, and Chris loves Vanoss. So we've actually played this game before and it's pretty fun. In Dragon City you collect
hundreds of different, and unique dragons just like this. Over time, your dragons generate gold. Which you can then use to buy food. Which you can use to level
them up and make them stronger. You can also have fun
by battling your friends or if they go after you first, you can take revenge on them. Dragon City has different PVP modes where you can take your
most powerful dragon and fight in leagues, arenas. Dragon City also has Facebook connect so you can connect it to Facebook. Pair up with your friends and
make an account super easy. They also just added
new levels to habitats. And now you can actually have
nine dragons per a habitat. Also Dragon City knows you're
trying to acquire that bread. So they added an auto battle mode. So while you're out there hustling, you can just leave it
on and save some time. And starting on December 20th, they're delivering your
new favorite thing. New face filters. Dragon City is releasing
a custom Facebook lens that when you open your
mouth and eat a tomato, you turn into a dragon. And once you have all the
dragon features on your face fire will come outta your mouth and tap on the screen to melt the ice. All you have to do is tap here and then here and then
Dragon City lens and boom. You're a cool kid. I need you guys to click
the link in the description and download Dragon City. Let's get back to helping people. - Towels. - You're doing better. - Bicycles, maybe like 16 to 20. - Stoves, refrigerators. - [Person On The Phone]
Two chairs for the desks. - Oh my goodness. That's not that heavy.
- No it's not. - Oh God.
- Superman. - Done. - Time to help me. - Do you moisturize Chris? - Oh yeah let's let's keep that going. - Watch this. He's looking. - You can't say watch this. - I thought he had to just... Here, hand them something. Hey Chris, you have to grab this. - Oh no, no - Hey Jake, hey jake. Hey I got him. We made it. - Oh my god.
- There's a lot of balance. - Oh man, y'all great, man. Y'all guys are awesome, man. - Hey baby, how you doing? - That's new stuff right? Just take it into the pantry. - I don't even think there's enough room in this closet for everything we bought. This is our only cleaning supplies closet. So our mission is to fill it to here. - And we was worried about how we gonna pick up our donations. New bag. New bag. - I'm gonna take this toy up to Maryland and I'm gonna give it to a kid
that's dealing with cancer. - Let's give him a nice one. - We donate toys to kids
that are dealing with cancer, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes. Y'all need to come on up to Maryland, man because this is a big thing
that I see y'all doing, man. How you gonna take our
stuff up to Maryland? - Give that to one of them. - Yeah, man. Oh my God. - And give it to him too. Don't take it for yourself. - Wait a minute, man. This the new Nintendo thing? - Yeah. - Oh my God, man. Y'all about to bring tears
to an old man's eyes, man. - There you go.
- Oh no. - There you go.
- Oh my God. - We got plenty of em.
- Oh my Gosh. Charlie you see this? For a dollar man?
- For a dollar. Yeah man I got one more dollar. - All right I'm starting
to realize just how many Clorox wipes we bought. - God is good. - I just talked to our manager
and we've got a storage unit. - Cause we're running
outta room to put stuff. So we got a storage unit
too to put out front. - They're gonna deliver a storage unit. - Oh my God are you serious? - And I'm just glad that
people like y'all are around. Thank you. Thank you. And I could never tell
you how much I thank you. Thank you so much. - I do. - So last thing is we're
gonna give him a check. Just in case you wanted
to buy some more things. We just wanted to give
you a little bit of money. It's about $15,000. If you want to buy anything. - Oh my God.
- To buy anything you need. I think that's great help. Stop number one down two more to go. Jake you're in charge of
the women's underwear. - Well here's small and
medium, extra larges. There's some mediums. We got no, we got some more. We got some Reebok stuff. - You really know your stuff about women underwear. - Yeah you really know a lot. - Alright boys trash bags. Be careful. - Yeah. - Cart.
- Taylor. - Dude I'm not ready. All right. Chandler is struggling. - I did it. - These are like the most fun. 'Cause you get to have
a bunch of characters. Oh these are the Avengers. And if they don't like "Star Wars". That's a roof. Here Tareq. These kids will have
the childhood I wanted. Dude I used to play with
Legos all day every day. Totally didn't sneeze on your present. Sorry kids. Calm down your testosterone. - I can't bend down. Whoa. This one's full of stuff. We met last time right? - Little bit of red. Thank you so much. It's just this a yearly thing now. You'll never be able to get rid of us. - Oh my goodness. - Ethan.
- Yeah. Think I wasn't gonna throw it. - The viewers don't have arms. - Forgot my bad. Where do you guys want your stove? - Right here sir. - So the chairs are here. The paper towels, all the
bleach, all the wipes, the trash bags, some water, more water, some jackets, some more jackets and some lockers. - Do you need us to do
anything before we go? - No, we're good.
- Yeah? - We're good. But this isn't actually our first time surprising her with things. It's like seven months
ago we spent like 20 grand on supplies and delivered
it to their shelter. So this is just our reoccurring thing. And our mic actually died here. She just seems like she
genuinely likes helping people. So it's really fun to help her. All right guys we're at the Basset center. You might remember them
from the first video. This place went really well. I'm actually really
happy with how that went. And yeah we have more stuff to give them. Let's do it. Good, how y'all doin'?
- I'm good. - We brought more stuff. So you want us to start shoveling it in? - Yes.
- Let's go do that. - Let's do it. - Toys! - Chandler, Chandler, Chandler. You got the Disney princess one. Let me get the "Avengers".
- You can't have it. - It's mine. He got the princess one. - So Jake told me that that's his. - Wait, which one? - The Lego one. Oh, okay. - Toys. - No, you can't play with them Chandler, they're for the children. - I'll be back to play later.
- Okay. - So as you can see there's
a lot of rooms here. Each room's a different family. So we got a TV for each family. Go Jake. - Hey, Jimmy's grabbing the last TV now. This is everything. - Wow.
- Wow. - Here's Santa.
- Santa's ugly. - All right guys. So we didn't film as many reactions here 'cause they're a little bit younger. So over here we have nine TVs and then we have a couple Switches, couple PlayStation fours, Legos. The staple of every Christmas. Used to play with Legos all the time. Love 'em. I think it'll be pretty cool. And they should enjoy it. - This what Christmas all about. - Absolutely.
- I love y'all man. - How many wipes do you
think they did need? - A lot. - Hurry before they . I have no idea how much we've spent but let's go get more stuff. Excuse me. I have a cart. - My cart is like my heart, full. - Load 'em up. - Guess we're buying all their blankets. That has been stacked with . There you go. - We're spending a hundred grand. You've already seen how
far four carts goes. - Yeah.
- Wait, hey hey. Why'd you only grab two? Grab all of them. It's one hand. - Okay? Grab 'em all. - I actually grabbed four.
- Okay. Well see these right here, Jake? They felt forgotten. You should have grabbed them too. All right. So like it says in the title, the budget for this video is
a hundred thousand dollars but we only managed to
spend around 50,000 of it. Which is why we gave
the rest of it in checks to the three homeless shelters. We literally cleared the
shelves of every thing. What we bought goes
all the way down there. Ta-da. - How does he keep doing this? - I'll sit right here. I'll keep this comment warm. - Follow this to the back. Hey, do you want us to sign that? Yeah, who do you want to sign it? All of us?
- Okay. - What's your favorite video? - One of them was the
one where you destroyed all those laptops. - That's an old one. All right, Chris, where are we? - Oh, we're at the third
and final homeless shelter. - As you can tell he's super excited. And yeah, you guys know the deal. We're just gonna offload
it and see what happens. Oh, what a shock, more wipes. - 14,234, 14,235. - 17,001, 17,002.
- What are you doing? I was counting to a hundred thousand. I was just counting how many
Clorox wipes we were buying. You were telling me yesterday
that you were super happy because of this. - Yeah it makes you feel good. It really does. - Jake you always look so
serious when you hold the camera. - Because I'm serious about my work. - Gimme this. Do the face you were just doing. Dude that is what I look at
when Jake holds the camera. And then the last thing
we wanted to give you was a check because you know there's somethings you
wanted to buy as well. $22,000 to buy anything.
- Holy crap. You're awesome. You guys are great. - What do you think about all this stuff? - This is amazing. Yeah we put on our website, we need paper products, we
need cleaning detergents, laundry detergent, all that. This meet's our need. - All right cool. - Yeah. I've been watching you
on YouTube for the past year. I'm like, yeah, it's cool. And you get kicked outta some places. I like that. - The reason we gave
this location $22,000, instead of 13,000. Like the other two is
because they needed money for repairs and stuff. So we didn't buy as much supplies and instead gave them a
few extra thousand dollars to fix things around their place. All right guys, $100,000 spent. Few days later. You guys have fun? - Yeah! - A team.
- OH yeah. Woo! ♪ MrBeast6000 oh ♪ ♪ MrBeast6000 oh ♪ ♪ MrBeast6000, yeah you know his name ♪ ♪ He changed it once or twice ♪ ♪ But I think it's here to stay ♪