Today we're doing the oldest number system in the world: Babylonian Cuneiform Numbers. ( Brady: Cu-ne-iform?)
- Yeah it's true, I thought it was cuneiform too but then I went I spoke to one of the curators of the cuneiform collection at the british museum and in this first sentence out his mouth has said cu-ne-iform so that's how one should say it. 
So the first writing system is cuneiform and it evolved about three thousand years BC between the Tigris and the Euphrates, the kind of Sumerian civilisation. And what it is it's bits of mud, you make a mark using a reed - although here I've got a lollipop stick and I've got some potty
putty; but it's essentially the same. Cuneis is the Latin for wedge and it's all about
making wedge marks. So when you see it written
down you see with like little triangles and lines but that's just because they're trying to make it look like an actual 3d wedge mark, but today I'm going to be able to show you using actual 3d wedge marks. So the system of writing things down emerge around about 3000 BC, but I'm going to sort of speed forward to about 2000 BC when the number system was already kind of in fully functioning order and kind of worked, and pretty much the oldest kind of mathematical tablets that
we have are from that period. And it's- you call that Babylon so it's the kind of
civilisation that kind of came on after Suma. So how do Babylonian numbers work? Well I'm going to take one of my tablets and- one thing which is interesting, all the tablets that were used to make cuneiform on are really about this size. So often you see them in photographs and they kind of expanded and you think, well maybe this tablet was this kind of massive tablet like a kind of gravestone, well no they're all just about this size
almost like a- you know say half an iphone or something. If you go to the British museum where they have well over a hundred thousand of these tablets - they're more like this, they're kind of squareish and there's got all the writing on it because, how do you write it? You write it by holding the tablet in one hand and holding the reed in the other and then making the marks. It was used over a period of 3000 years, so it's actually the writing system and number system that have been used for the longest period of time, much more than the Latin alphabet or Roman numerals or Arabic numerals. So in terms of say what you call civilisation, since the early civilisations it's been used for two-thirds really of human history. (I wonder if ours will 
ever overtake it or) (something else will come along?) (Or I wonder if ours will ever become the) (title holder?) What our Arabic numerals? Well you could argue that hexadecimal or even base two has really overtaken it because we live in a world of computers and that's how computers work. The number system uses only two types of wedge. 1 is this - that's 1. 2 is another one, 3 that's three. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. So 1 to 9 you're just adding- it's quite like Roman numerals but you're just keeping on adding the same digits. When you get to ten you use- I'm going to turn this over- and you use the other sort of horizontal and use that, so that's 10. 
And you want to carry on counting you'd go back to the vertical...12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19; and 20 would be Sorry whoops 
- (Two horizontals?) Two horizontals. So keep on going 
they go to 30, 40, 50; 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59 - and can you guess what 60 is?
- (Well I) (would have thought it would be) (six horizontals?)
- You fell into my trap. You fell into my trap! This... is 60. Because you're starting 
off with a system which is adding new symbols, which is just like Roman, but it also had a positional element. And when you get to 60 you move along. So this should be a zero here but the problem with the Babylonians, they didn't have a symbol for zero. Later on they invented a kind of symbol for zero, but actually they never used it in a case like this; so that is 60. 61 is this, 62, 63 - actually that's a better 63 - 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, and 70. I mean yeah 70 would be one 60 and a 10. It's called a sexagesimal system, i.e. base 60. You've got this column that counts up to 60 and then this one here, whatever you have in there you multiply by 60. So actually just say you wanted to go further on, that number there is 3661. (If you want to do 3671) (you'd put like a- )
- Yeah that would have - (A 10 in there?)
- 10 would go here. But if you wanted to put a 10 here that would mean you have to times 60 by 11, which is 660, so that would be 3600 plus 660 plus 11. 
- (How would you write) (3601? Do you have to have like a) (space) (in that column?)
- Yes, so that- the Babylonians required a symbol for zero for when there was nothing in that column. And eventually they started to use two diagonals basically like that, two diagonals; that would be 3601 with the two diagonals to indicate nothing in the middle. This only occurred in later Babylonian mathematical texts and also they never used it at either side, so you couldn't tell the difference between sort of 110 and 1100 for example; and just 11. But they did use it as a marker to separate middle columns. So you've got this really interesting combination of a positional
system and a sort of non-positional system. And you might think, well isn't that complicated? It might look complicated, actually for doing maths it's really good and it's much much better than the 
Roman system. With the Roman system, you get up to M, that's a thousand. And then if you want to get more than a thousand you just keep on doing Ms, Ms forever. Whereas here if you want to get bigger you just need to go to one new column and then you get the next multiple of 60 up. So you can actually get very quickly to really high numbers; but also you can go the other way, like the decimal point. If you were to put a 1 here that would be 160. And if
you were to put a 1 next to that that would be one 3600th. It's very good at getting big numbers, very good at dividing into small numbers, much better; because the Romans they use kind of fractions, it's really complicated and difficult to do whereas this you could do very well. And it is no coincidence the Babylonians were the best astronomers of their age by far and one of the reasons is that they had a much much better number system they could use to do it. And in fact they were so good that the real- you know, you might have thought well why 60? 60 sounds familiar. The reason why - we still use base 60 when talking about the time, so 60 seconds in a minute, 60 minutes in an hour, is that 60 was the number chosen as the base by the Babylonians right at the beginning. And it's because of all their kind of stargazing etc that that- even though the Greeks had a different number
system than the Romans did, they just kept the base 60 when talking about time. (And why did the Babylonians choose 60?) Well this is really interesting and it's probably one of the biggest questions in ancient mathematics, no one knows. There are two possible explanations; one, it could be that- just say you're approximating a circle, you might want to put a hexagon in it. A hexagon is actually six triangles with 60 
degrees, so already - just say you want to divide each sixth into ten - then you get sixty. So that's one reason they think-
- (But why divide it into ten?) (Are we coming back to fingers now?) Yes because the thing that's most natural to do, in the way to count, and there was a base 10 system embedded in their base 60 system, because
we get just the horizontal lines until we get to 10 when we come to this other symbol, is that here we've got the sixes; the most natural thing to divide a circle to is into sixths. You know, we got to 360
degrees, so that's interesting already, we've kept that 360 degrees. Divided into six so that each one is 60 degrees then maybe it's easier just to then use your hands and divide that into 10. The other reason why 60
is really good is that 60 is a very divisible number. The numbers that divide into 60 are 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 12, 20, 30 and then 60. That's really good for doing arithmetic in your head and also for just dividing stuff up; it's like- it's like really really useful. So that- it could be that, it could be a mixture of both. I mean some people think
that; 60 is also 5 times 12 they could have been a base 5 number system, because ten, that's one system; they are also base side number systems with the five figures on our hand, and they could have been a base 12. 12 is also a very divisible number. No one quite knows. But it's interesting that the very oldest type of number is still present with us every day. A bit more from this interview can be found on our second channel, Numberphile2, and for lots more of this type of stuff why not check out Alex Bellos' 'The Language Lovers' Puzzle Book'. There are links in the video description. Thanks also to our Numberphile patrons, including those whose names you're seeing on the screen
at the moment. ...say that the digit can be used, kind of all singing or dancing number digit just like all the others, that was the Indians. It was moving it from a kind of placeholder to realising that no no it can actually behave really really well. And even when it appeared in India it took centuries for people to actually begin to play around with it and realise that you know-