- I almost titled this video, the best gaming laptop money can buy, but I just can't do that. It's infuriating because
the cooling, the screen, the keyboard, and the build quality, almost everything about
this new Alienware x17 is exceptional except for one massive flaw that makes it perform worse than this Lenovo that's $600 cheaper. Do you know what never
underperforms, though? My segues to our sponsor, Honey. Honey is the free to use shopping tool to help search for some
of the best promo codes on loads of your favorite sites. Get it today at joinhoney.com/LTT. (upbeat music) Side-by-side, it is hard
to tell the difference between the outgoing m17 and the new x17, but the first couple of things
I noticed weren't great. The numpad is gone, which isn't fantastic on a
modern desktop replacement, and the trackpad has become smaller. I was in the process of angrily typing about how Alienware is going backwards, but then the fans on the m17 kicked in while I was installing a program, at which point I realized the
x17 had yet to make a sound. This is when I started to appreciate just how much cooling
there is in this laptop, Like, look, there's vents,
vents, vents, vents back here, and vents down here. Like, how else are you going
to cool a 165 watt RTX 3080 in a laptop that's this thin without starting a fission reaction? I've said in previous videos that because Turbo Boost
has gotten so good, if your laptop isn't thermal throttling, you're leaving performance on the table. But Alienware has done something
incredible with this x17, giving the RTX 3080 and the eight-core i7 every single watt it possibly could, and we're still not seeing
100 degrees on the CPU. Even more impressively,
the x17 manages these temps without sounding like
an audio immersion mod for flight simulators. I can confidently say that this is the best
cool laptop on the market that isn't as chunky as Thicken Nugget. So it should be able to handily outperform the identically specced
Lenovo Legion 7, should. In practice, it's more of a mixed bag, with the Legion and the
Alienware trading blows in our gaming benchmarks. Even more humiliating, the x17 was unable to
consistently beat the m17 it's supposed to be replacing. Now, to be clear, it isn't
like the x17 is slow. The gaming experience on
this thing is sublime, but for the exact same
spec, this one's $600 less. And I want the performance to be able to back up the
price tag on this thing. So why isn't this laptop
that's clearly better cooled and just running faster,
not running faster in games? Well, it all comes to a little doohickey called a MUX switch. See, in laptops with both a discrete GPU and a CPU with integrated graphics, the discrete GPU signal
is routed through the IGPU before being routed to the display. This allows the CPU to
decide whether or not it needs high efficiency
or high performance. But while this is great
for saving battery life, it also results in a 5
to 10% performance hit. A MUX switch performs
the same basic function, but without requiring the dedicated GPU to be routed through the GPU, eliminating that performance hit while keeping the battery life benefits, and also allowing you to use
G-SYNC as a cherry on top. Clearly, you want a MUX
switch in your laptop. Not so clearly, Alienware
has only included one in the 1080p 360 hertz
screen option for the x17, leaving the 165 hertz and 4K
panel options high and dry. Normally, the reason to not
include a MUX switch is cost, but Dell, this is a $3,600 laptop. Give it a (beep) MUX switch. I retested the games connected
to an external display, and yup, 5 to 10% more performance, making the x17 the undisputed king. By the way, if you want
to look like a king, check out our new dad hats. They're brand new, but they look like they
were dropped in the ocean. lttstore.com Anyway, the main reason I'm so annoyed about a relatively small
amount of performance is that everything else on
this machine is nearly perfect. The x17 is undeniably well-built. Magnesium chassis is
just incredibly stiff. And their silky smooth finish? Mm, it really lives up to its name, even if it is a bit of
a fingerprint magnet. Sure, rigidity alone does
not justify the premium, but this keyboard just might. In here, we have the optional
Cherry mechanical keyboard and it is fantastic. Like, it is a $50 add on, but if you're looking at this laptop, you're clearly not concerned with getting the most bang for your buck. I've already done a full
video on this keyboard, so I won't rave about it for
too long, but simply put, this is the first mechanical
keyboard in a laptop that is actually good. There's loads of travel, a
very distinct, tactile bump, and the keys are
shockingly well supported. Like, it's a gaming laptop, but you could totally write a novel on it. The trackpad on the
other hand is just fine. It's glass topped, RGB, the
feel using it is credible, but I just wish we had more of it. I understand they had to do
this for the sake of cooling, but it just can't compare
to the Zephyrus M16. Another area I was concerned Alienware had fallen behind the pack was the screen. I absolutely love 16 by 10
displays for productivity, especially on smaller laptops, but the 17-inch size on here
more than makes up for it. And with a 4K 120 hertz panel, it is possibly the most
immersive gaming experience I've ever had on a laptop. There are only a handful
of laptops out there where this panel makes any sense. You need the grunt from a
proper 165 watt RTX 3080 to get modern games past
60 FPS at 4K in a laptop. And if you plan on getting super sweaty, just get the 360 hertz panel. But man, with this GPU, this 4K panel, ugh, it looks so good. From here, we don't really have a script, but I wanna do crab rave. (lively music) Yeah, it's not as good. Yeah, that's way better. Dell, just take the speakers from this one and put it in this one. What are you doing? I honestly thought it'd be better. Moving on, the IO that you
get in this guy is very solid. Like, there's nothing that
I really want back here, except for just knowing what is back here. It's really difficult to reach around and plug in your stuff. And Lenovo has a really
simple solution for this, where they just simply have
some text that lights up that allows you to know exactly
where to plug in your stuff. Excellent solution. I wanna take it apart now though. I haven't, 'cause I'm a
bit scared of the insides. The first bit of
disassembly is super easy, eight Phillips head screws and
boom, bottom panel comes off and we have access to two
RAM slots and two SSDs. Awesome, love to see it. That's realistically all that I'd expect to be able to upgrade
in something like this. Oh, and the battery. 87 watt-hours, which is good for maybe
five hours if you're lucky. I do wish that they had an AMD CPU option 'cause then you'd probably get like two, maybe even three more hours. And like nine hours of battery life is way different feeling than five. Let's disconnect the
battery, speaking of that. Dell was so proud of the
cooling that they put in this. Like, you can see these four fans, the heat sinks go all
the way along the side and they're up here. And apparently with some CFD stuff, they optimized it so that the airflow would not just go over these fins, but also around all
the components in here, so your RAM and SSDs and VRMs and such are also pretty well cooled. Two more Phillips screws and this comes off with a bit of effort. If the laptop is not on in
all of the B-roll shots, you now know why. That was in no way easy,
but it is really convenient that Dell has only two
types of screws in here, and it's M2X4 and M2X3 and
all of them are marked. (laughs) We have done it. And oh, that's not what
I was expecting at all, but that is really impressive. Holy frig, look at those heat pipes. So I think that we have like
vapor chamber, vapor chamber, and then Big Chungus. Maybe there's a reason, like
12 millimeter heat pipes. One, two, three, four of them, plus five, one on the other side for some, probably VRMs. This is why I'm so annoyed. They have this beautiful
cooling system, four fans, 12 phase VRMs for the GPU. This is seriously impressive crap. And then they just don't
have a MUX switch on it. Alienware, come on. (sighs) So then, in almost every way, the Alienware x17 is the best
gaming laptop money can buy. And you can tell your friends
all about the keyboard and the screen and the chassis
and the cooling system. But you'll have that one
friend that watched this video and knows that you paid a
metric buttload of money for a laptop that could have easily
been 10% more powerful if Dell had just simply
included a fricking MUX switch. What would be even more embarrassing is if this thing right here ends up being more powerful. It's a blatant Alienware rip-off, but it does have a MUX
switch and an AMD CPU. So get subscribed. I'm starting to work on this tomorrow. What can't wait until tomorrow though, is a segue to our sponsor, Micro Center. Micro Center is one of
the best places to shop for all of your technology needs. Get the best prices and the best selection on computer hardware and
everything else technology related at one of Micro Center's
25 locations across the US. Micro Center has a grown
lineup of business solutions for small and medium-sized businesses featuring workstation computers from Dell Precision and Supermicro. They have experts on staff who will advise and make recommendations as to
why a server business desktop or workstation is the
right choice for you. They offer services around
repairing business systems, replacing components, and any related technical support issues. New customers can check the
link in the video description for a coupon code for a
free 240 gigabyte SSD. No purchase necessary, in store only. Thanks for watching this video. If you're still unsure what laptop to get, check the review of the Zephyrus G15. It's not quite as powerful, but it's way easier to
live with every day.