- [David] No.
- [Linus] Okay. - [David] No. - This is going great. We're back again with
Intel Extreme Tech Upgrade, where Intel has given
$5,000 tech makeovers to Anthony, Riley, Dennis, tons of members of the team so far, and we've seen some great themes. Like VR gaming, extreme
comfort, and minimalism. But today's is unlike
anything we've seen so far. James has what I would describe
as the most honest theme. Hey, it's $5,000. I'm gonna take advantage of this to the greatest extent that I can. - Don't you knock? (upbeat music) (air whooshing) (light jazz music) Hi, my name is James, and
I'm head of writing at LMG. So I make sure the videos get made. (light jazz music continues) Describing my current setup in one word, adequate or suboptimal. If you're a glass half
full, half empty person, you could pick which way to go there. - Not gonna lie, your setup
is pretty sick already. What exactly are the pain points we're trying to address today? - I have these giant tower speakers. My speakers are pretty good, I didn't think that it was worth changing them out with this budget. These are way, way, way bigger than anyone should have ever. Especially, this room. I should've got bookshelf,
but I didn't know at the time. But even though they have
these big eight-inch drivers, that's still not as good of
bass as an actual subwoofer. They don't go as low
as an actual subwoofer. So the biggest problem
with my home theater setup is that I don't have
a subwoofer right now. - You don't have. You have these ballin' speakers, and no subwoofer. - Yeah, exactly. - [Linus] This is pain point number two, this does seem that bad. - This is okay, but it doesn't have Atmos, not that I have any
Atmos speakers right now. but I want them in the future. And it's also underpowering my speakers. I don't need more power
for making them louder, but it's nice to have more headroom to have a more dynamic sound. - Right. - When you get those transients coming in, it'll be more lively sounding. Plus, this doesn't have the
greatest room correction. And the solution that I have for it, has great room correction. So I'm excited for that. - Hey, remember when we did
the review video of this thing? But James actually has it legit. You won this at the
Christmas party, right? - That's right. And so, today, I'm keeping
this chassis and everything, we're just gonna shove a new
GPU in this same form factor and use a new Rocket Lake
CPU on a new ITX motherboard. - [Linus] I don't wanna be a downer, but I couldn't help noticing there was a 3080 over on the table there. What are the odds that's
gonna fit in here? - It's gonna fit. The final pain point is another
home theater related one. Speakers are only half the equation, the other half is the room. This is a giant reflective room. Look at that big blank wall. - [Linus] Yeah. - And that's the first reflection point from this speaker just going
bonk, right off of that. - Right, so your surround is gonna be just kind of all over the place. - And it can make it harder to understand what people are saying in movies. Now this is a living
room, not a home theater. I can't do anything about this, you know? I can't put acoustic panels
here or anything like that. - I mean, you can, but
the wife approval factor is gonna be pretty low. - Well, case in point, look at this. This is seemingly a boho shelf, but actually these are acoustic
foam inserts that I made. - [Linus] Oh, that's pretty cool. Who knew you were crafty? - Don't look too close at 'em. (Linus laughing) So on that wall over there, I figure we can make a bunch
of DIY acoustic panels, maybe even an art panel, and just fill that all up with
as much treatment as we can. - Are you telling me that these are just a devious ploy as well? Are these just bass traps? - No, we bought these in Morocco. But you actually did uncover another thing that I'm upgrading. These cables under here, they were taped up with
electrical tape and everything, but it doesn't matter, my kid grabs them and
rips them apart anyway. (Linus laughs) And like, I just hate how
they're dangling here. That's why I got this, adhesive vinyl that matches my floor. - [Linus] That's kind of genius actually. - Except that I'm moving
in like two weeks, so. - Before we look at the receiver, I have to do some of the traditional poking around in people's homes. Nice cat tree, love it. Oh man, okay. - [James] The essentials.
- This is blatantly staged. If you're gonna stage it, you might as well just
put them on like this. You know? There. These are some good quality baby toys. Hey, is this the same penguin
that Nicole has at her desk? - [James] Oh, maybe. - I recognize this one, stolen out of the hands of my child. These things are like A, the best, 'cause kids absolutely love them and use them all the time. But B, (beep) impossible to store. - That's nothing, look at this thing. You know what this is? - Is it a puzzle?
- No. - It looks like a puzzle.
- No. - It's a potty.
- No, it's not. It's a headstand trainer. - No. - This is the kind of
stupid stuff my wife buys. - Oh, my phone! So it doesn't prevent you
from falling over I don't, oh, it does. Oh, so yeah. It keeps you from going over. - Is that what it does?
- Yeah. 'Cause it'll support your shoulders. Have you never tried it? - No, I don't need this (beep). - It's actually not the
stupidest thing ever. I mean, it's stupid to-
- If you use it! There's a little window behind
it that opens like that. - [Linus] Oh, that's pretty cool. I like it, I like this sort of thing. - [James] So that whole cat
door apparatus like slides out. And check this out, see right here? I made this in the winter and this is all like extraneous Rockwool from the acoustic panel stuff. - I like it. Oh, hold on, there's one last
thing we have to look at. Books are the absolute
best way to judge someone when you go into their house, especially, if you know
them a little bit already. Chris Hadfield, "An Astronaut's
Guide to Life on Earth." I believe you actually read this. - I didn't, I bought it for my wife. - Do you actually read
"Lord of the Rings"? Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. I think you forced
yourself to read it once, but you hate Tom Bombadil as much as I do. - I read "Lord of the
Rings" in high school. That copy I've only read
like the first 100 pages. - Wait, dammit, is this the, you haven't actually read it shelf? I was bamboozled! - No, you're missing all the best ones. - [Linus] I fell for it.
- "American Psycho." To be honest, I've only read parts of it I guess.
- Okay, no, he's a poser. No, no, you're done. You're out.
- No, this is the best book. This is a copy of "The Wealth
of Nations," by Adam Smith, that I got from a used bookstore. This is from like 1915
or something like that. I'm not really a Milton
Friedman kind of guy, but you've got to know your enemy, right? - Did you read it? - Oh, not the whole thing, but I've read.
(Linus laughs) Hey, look, hey, wait. I just saw my bookmark.
- Poser. I gotta say after seeing, particularly, David's and
Dennis's mountains of technology, your haul here looks more focused maybe. - [James] Quality not
quantity, $800, $2,700. - [Linus] Wait, what is that? - [James] This is my new AVR. - You spent half your
budget on a receiver? - Yes, yes I did. - Wow. Okay. Well, why don't we go straight into that? - You've got your mainstream
kind of Best Buy receivers from Sound United, like Marantz and Denon. And then you've got your next
level of more expensive ones that some people think
is a waste of money. This is a higher tier, supposedly made with better components, kind of amplifier from Anthem, which is a Canadian company. I was searching for something that had really good room correction. So the top of the game
there, within reason, is gonna be either Dirac, which you get in NAD products, or ARC, which you get in Anthem products. I was really interested
in getting a NAD one, but then I read all the
owner's forum reviews and there was just so many problems. Go for it, buddy. So I went with Anthem 'cause
they seem to be more reliable. - [Linus] Okay.
- I wanted something that was modern, like Atmos and stuff, powerful and aesthetically pleasing, and I think this is the
balance of all three. One of the sweetest things about this is that has Chromecast built in. And the reason I care, is because I hate YouTube Music. What? What are you- - But that has Chromecast
functionality built into it. - Yeah, but the TV has to be on. - Oh, okay, all right. - Dude, don't get me into this. I have, okay, look at this. Using the SHIELD remote
is better with the SHIELD. However, I have to still use the LG remote if I wanna use the
feature where I can hold down the voice command
and say "Screen off," which would allow me to play music and then have the TV screen turn off. But then if you hit any
button, it turns back on. And then using this remote fricking sucks. Like there's a lot of problems that it doesn't interface
quite well with CEC. So like, no, this feature matters to me! - Okay, all right, thanks, Intel. You're so fired up, James. - I've been waiting for
a long time for this. This knob.
- It feels real good. - That's a good knob.
- I already touched it when you weren't looking. - [James] Wait, there's more, Linus. - Wait, is this like room correction infrared apparatus or something? - Yeah, so receivers typically
come with a microphone with which you can- - Yeah, but like it's a toy. - But this one, as far as I can tell, this is just a rebranded UMIK-1. And the UMIK-1 is a $200, kind of the standard measurement
microphone that people use. And now I've also confirmed that this thing is not software
locked to their software. You can just plug this into your laptop and use it with REW or what
other software you want. - [Linus] Does it come with like a stand for it and everything?
- Hell yeah, a full tripod. - What the hell? I got to tell you, as someone who's pretty
happy with my Sonos ARC, I'm finding some aspects of this upgrade a little hard to justify. So why don't we start with the before? Why do we always end up in bed together? - [James] This always happens. I think it's my turn to wear the wig. - The acoustics in this
room really are terrible. - The volume of air in here
goes all through the house. My home theater doesn't know that there's an imaginary wall right here. It has to pressurize all
the way to the front door. - And passed. - [James] I think these eight-inch woofers just can't do that. Plus, they're not gonna
have the extension, they're just not gonna go as low. - Yeah, I'm still very
surprised at how bad it sounds. - You can hear the bass more on that one. - Yeah, I can hear it, but you're not supposed to hear bass. You're supposed to feel,
like there's nothing. There's no arousal whatsoever. I'd love to help, but you
know how it is with cats. You can't really, oh, you're not gonna, oh you moved her, poor thing. - [James] Stop looking at her butthole. - I'm not looking at her butthole. Her tail's down. - I think what we should do is unplug the existing receiver.
- Yep. - Put on banana plugs, which will make it way more convenient when I move.
- In two weeks. - And have to plug everything back in. And get this in place. - Okay, let's do it. Ho, oh god! Oh no, the plant was overwatered and it sogged in and swelled. - [James] Dammit, I
spent $30 on this thing. - All right, give me some
banana plugs, I'm ready. - Oh, they're all individually wrapped. No, that's way more plastic than I want. I want this to be in the
same spot this is in, so it's not so easy as like taking them and putting them here. 'Cause they have to go through the same cable management hole. So is this a one person job, if we only have that one
screwdriver that fits? - Yes.
- Okay. - See you later. - Oh, I'll got a bed. - (laughs) I might even join you. For those of you who aren't familiar, this is how this works. You just take your bare wire. And usually you would like, I don't know, sandpaper it a little bit or something, because you care about it
making really good contact. But, realistically, we all know that's not gonna make a difference, so I'm just gonna pop that in there. - And this is the subwoofer I got. The ever popular SVS SB-2000 Pro. The S means it's sealed. The B means it's a box
instead of a cylinder. And the pro means that I
can use it with an app. - And now we go from just
having ugly, horrible, bare wire that is a pain in the butt, and hurts your fingers to plug in, to screwing this guy on. Oh, look at that! And it plugs right back into that same. Well, you gotta tighten
the thing, I guess. But then it plugs right back
into that, right back in! There it is. - It comes in two colors, black ash, which is
similar to my speakers, and then glossy piano black. But I went for the black ash. - [Linus] You like that
black ash, don't you? - [David] That's not black ash. - They sent piano black! This costs $100 more. - Oh really?
- I'm not taking that into my budget. I appreciate you SVS, my
budget allocated 800, not 900. - This is gonna sound so much better. - Oh, this thing's gonna haul (beep). - I honestly thought that
you were kind of wasting a lot of your money, until I heard the before. - I would like to run naked,
no grill, but I have a toddler. That's why even on
these beautiful eclipses I have all the grills on, 'cause they like to touch stuff and color. And, crucially, I got this kit. The SoundPath Subwoofer Isolation System. So these are for decoupling
your subwoofer from the floor. The last thing you want is
for your subwoofer to growl, and then to hear a rattling
somewhere else in your house. So these are the feet they come with. They are not hard plastic. They're not that substantial. And here is the foot we're
going to be replacing it with. Look at that. - [Linus] Oh, I like feet, I wanna see it. - Well, it kind of looks
like a flashlight actually. - Oh god. - So subwoofer placement is a thing, especially, if you have
multiple subwoofers. If you only have one subwoofer
and you're in a small room, and there's only one or two
logical places to put it, then you should just put it
where you're gonna put it. But if you have multiple potential spots, you should do what's
called a subwoofer crawl. And so what that is is
you play bass sweeps and you move your subwoofer around to different
parts of the room until, when you're sitting in
your main listing position, that bass sweep is an equal
volume across the frequencies. I'm not gonna do a
subwoofer crawl right now. I'm just gonna plug it in (laughs). - [Linus] 'Cause I'm moving in two weeks. - Yeah, exactly. My kid is gonna use this
to climb onto the couch. Phantom cables, I don't think
this is the most expensive one they sell, but this is
a nice amount of shielding. I'm pretty happy with this. I'm excited about the cable. - Hey, I mean, I'm sitting
over here fondling cables for the last half an hour, so. - This couch has made it really hard to find a new place to live, 'cause it's just such a huge couch. I'm basically in bed all the time. - [Linus] I am done with banana plugs. - Should we do the vinyl floor thing? - Oh, totally. But I think we should do that after we put the new receiver in. I keep trying to sit on this table and it's a piece of (beep). - [James] Yeah, I spent like $99 off Facebook Marketplace for that thing. - [Linus] Okay, that was too much. - [James] Goodbye, slim friend. Hello, chunky hybrid class A. - [Linus] Okay, that's deep enough. - [James] That's what he said. - There's a really
stiff HDMI cable, James. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I got this, I got this. Are you trying to capture the moment where I realize that I don't got this? - One thing to know about this receiver is that it's not the best option for people who have multiple subs. And that is because inside there's not two different circuit paths, it's actually just an internal Y splitter. So the two different
ports you have for subs, just go to the same thing. And the reason that's not great is 'cause when you get to the
room correction part of it, it can't separately
tune the two subwoofers. You work on the PC, I'll
build some acoustic panels. We'll do the ARC Genesis set up after, because it requires using the PC. - And we'll be ready to go. - So I'm gonna work backwards and show you the finished product. This is a finished acoustic panel. It's got some white fabric on it that is acoustically transparent. You can tell 'cause you can hold it up and see light come through it, and you hold up to your mouth and you can breathe through it. I just stretched it over this wooden frame and stapled it and put some hangers on it. This is a partially completed one that's full of Rockwool. This stuff is cool. It's not like the pink insulation that you have to wear
a mask and goggles for, and that irritates your skin. This stuff is super workable. You can cut it with just a bread knife. You can touch it, handle it. - Now, James, I couldn't
help overhearing before, that you're planning to
sell your receiver to David after the video is done. And I couldn't help noticing that you've got an RTX graphics card already in your rig. So are you planning to not
just get a tech upgrade, but also make some money here? - You know, I gotta keep up
with all the other guys here and get a 3080, 'cause
that's the thing to do. Being able to do so at MSRP, giving me two very good
PCs at the end is great, because I have some people in my life who I'd love to give a PC to. - [David] How hard is this
system to work in, Linus? It's clearly designed to
be built once at a factory, and then not really worked on. But for a pre-built, it uses
completely standard components, so I can't really complain. - Ah, crap, it split the wood. - Oh man, this is really fricking tight. James, how am I gonna put
the new motherboard in here? - [James] Okay, this is, oh
god, don't even look at this. This is really bad. - Oh what the, what are
you doing over there? I didn't think I was doing
this home upgrade with Dennis. Your Wi-Fi is hooked up like internally to antennas that are built into the case. How does this power supply? I am going to have to
completely tear this thing down. I have to get the power supply out in order to remove these Wi-Fi wires. - I pulled a David. - [David] That's not
what happened with me. - Well, not exactly, but similar. Hey, David, David, David.
- Yes. - Oh, my god. You're in luck, James. I am extracting your Wi-Fi. - [James] Thank you. - There's just a couple
little antenna PCBs here that need to pop off the bottom feet. - [James] All right, I'm just gonna do this over my kitchen sink I think. - [Linus] What are you even doing? - [James] I'm just lopping
1/8 of an inch off. - [Linus] Wait, over the sink? - [James] Well, yeah, I can scoop it out. - Let's have a look at the motherboard we're using for the upgrade. Really nice little board. Lots of features. So we've got Wi-Fi AC
now with an Intel chip. We've got USB 3.1. We've got Type-C, we've got, is this 2.5 gig LAN? - [James] I believe it is.
- Nice! We've got support for the latest Intel 11th gen
processors on an LGA 1200. So because James isn't
gonna be overclocking, it's not necessary for us to
go with a Z-series chipset. We've got a Core i7-11700. We've got an H570. And then we're actually reusing his memory from his old system, which is wow, 2666. (saw motor running) (saw motor stopping) - Eye protection, use it. - Yeah, if you ever feel
like upgrading your memory, that's probably gonna hold you back just a little bit with this puppy, but, hopefully, it's fine. - [David] Oh, we don't have thermal paste. - We don't? I have a plan. First, let's go ahead and install the CPU. Oh, no way, this is awesome! Check this out, so this motherboard, because you've got support
for PCI Express gen four on Intel's 11th gen processors, you can have a high-speed M.2 that runs at gen four speeds, and then you can have like
a normal gen three one. And even though this is an ITX board, they actually managed to
put two M.2 slots on it without like a big sort of like riser that comes off the board
or anything like that. Check this out, it's just right here under their M.2 Armor heat sink. Fricking awesome, I love it. - So, no. - [Linus] If you need
help with the power tools, I can help you. - Psh.
(Linus laughs) It's just so annoying not
having like clamps and stuff, or the vice grips. - Here's my plan. We don't have any thermal compound, but I have some experience
with these things. Reusing thermal compound.
- No. - Unfortunately, there's
not enough really on here for us to just kind of plunk
it onto a new clean CPU. So what we're gonna do is we're just gonna kind of salvage as much of
this back as we can here. - Pilots are done. - [David] No.
- [Linus] Okay. - [David] No. - [Linus] This is going great. - Oh yeah, we're gonna
be done at like two. - Oh, I mostly just meant my
thermal paste application here. Now I understand, David, you might look at this and go, "Gee, Linus, I don't know if
that's enough thermal paste, especially, 'cause it's
old and desiccated." That's where the stock heat sink that came with the CPU comes in. We don't wanna use this heat sink, but we can get a little bit of extra fresh thermal paste off of it. Oh wow, this stuff's way better. I should've just used this. - Is Linus somehow
trying to make my upgrade more jank than yours, David? - It's not trying, succeeding. - I found the extra Rockwool. The highest frequencies
that come into your stereo can get absorbed by like
curtains or a thick rug. But the lower you go, the deeper you need, because the wavelengths are longer. So this is about four inches, or actually, I think
it's 5 1/2 inches thick. This is kind of too thick
to hang off of my wall. That wouldn't really look like a normal painting or anything. So I'm actually gonna take a bread knife and cut this in half. - Oh, this is really tight. Just get out of the way! - It really does just go right in there. So I'm just pulling this tight, so it's wrinkle-free on the other side. I did the opposite ends first
to get that access tight. And then now I'm gonna go to the side, starting with the middle. - I'm just checking the front panel connector configurations. Usually, from one brand to
the same brand, it's the same. But sometimes when you switch
brands, they're different. Usually, they print the
key somewhere on the PCB. But on these really small boards, they often can't fit it right next to it. So you can see this one's over here. But it looks like they're the same. So I can just plunk that in, excellent. - So one of those front USB
ports has some gunk on it that doesn't work. I was hoping you could- - [Linus] Mhmm, I'm sorry to hear that. - Maybe you could do something about that. - [Linus] Oh, I see, that's
where you're going with it. - Well, you don't just get
$5,000 of Intel's money, you get eight hours of Linus's time. The only thing left to do now is put some fabric on the back. So if you don't wanna use the
same fabric you did on front, you can cheap out and get either burlap. Or if the fabric store you
go to just have a bin of crap that's like refuse, that's what I got. Mine happens to be white, but it just serves to cover
up and make it a little nicer. - And I've got an update too. I've got my motherboard and CPU in. I've got all the cable
management done on the side. I think this panel should close. So all that remains for me is to put in the RTX 3080. Look at that, it's almost like it's new. You left the peel on there and everything. You pretended that you weren't
using it for three weeks. You know what? This was a little annoying to work in, but good job MSI for making a pre-built that's actually upgradable with completely standard parts. - [James] Look how
spacious that GPU cave is. - Yeah, totally, you could absolutely do like anything in here, as long as it's not triple thick. - We're finished with
all the acoustic panels. I have four white ones like this. But why just stick with white, when you can get printed art panels? So what I've done is I got some artwork
from my friend, Jasmine, who's an artist. She does prints now. So I got one of her prints. I have another one in my bedroom. And I got it printed onto fabric using dye-sublimation printing. - That is a very colorful art. - [James] Well, it's mostly orange. - [Linus] That's really not what I meant. So do I get to listen to it now? - No, we have to do
the ARC Genesis set up. - Are you ready for ARC Genesis? - [James] Yeah, pretty sure
this gives you a live feed. - Oh, really? From position one, position the microphone at ear level and point it towards the ceiling, okay. - Okay, now once you hit start. (speakers playing abruptly)
- Whoa, hi, how are you doing? - We should actually get out of the way. - Oh, I'm getting down. - [James] Gotta be quiet. - Everybody, shut up! (speakers making sharp tone) - [James] That's some
room rattle on that one. - Mhmm. I think this little bump right here is actually me saying, mhmm, to you when the sub was running, because the other one didn't have anything above one kilohertz for the subwoofer. This is super cool. (speakers making sharp tone) Okay, it says it's done. Please wait for your correction curves. It's ready to upload
corrections to your device. So I click upload now, I guess. Oh, we should probably swap
out your SHIELD before we do. - Sure.
- That's the last piece, okay. - Well, also don't forget about the floor. - Oh, right, right, right, okay. You get the SHIELD, I
got this, I got this. This is gonna be really high effort, 'cause I know James is
staying here a long time. This self-adhesive can be applied to all smooth, clean and dry surfaces. I dunno, let's eyeball it. Oh, in that case, it's
not really long enough. Realistically, yeah, that'll reach.
- What about over here? - [Linus] I don't really care though. - [James] Honestly, whatever, man. At this point, this is a waste of $20, so. - [Linus] This is not going very well. - [James] Oh no, it folded in on itself. - [Linus] Okay, here, hold
on, hold on, I got it. Dbrand, are you proud of me yet? - [James] Oh god, I can see why they want the surface to be clean. - There, ah.
- There you go. - [Linus] All right, enjoy, James. Totally not noticeable. - [James] Is that worse
than the speaker wire? - [Linus] (laughs) I think so. - [David] I think you
have to leave it though. - [Linus And David] Yeah! - [James] And we're back to square one. - [Linus] And the worst part is that I taped down the
wires right under the chair. - [James] Right under the leg? - [Linus] It's like
sitting on it (laughing). - [James] You son of a (beep). (Linus laughing) - What are you gonna do? Ask for a refund? - [James] Oh my god,
this is getting so bad. - [Linus] Oh my god, this feels like an
infomercial fails level. Like this is awesome. - [James] I'm gonna wrap you in this for a prank one day.
- [Linus] No way. Okay, I'm ready. Are you ready? Who gets your daughter's pee spot here? - [James] Hey, that's maybe animal pee. - Ah, I'm totally gonna be that guy that goes into someone else's home and takes the alpha listening spot, right in the dead center. And I just dropped a silent fart onto your alpha listening spot. (upbeat music) That is night and day. - Do you feel like the
sub is super localized? - No, you probably do. - I'm right beside it.
- Because you can literally feel the vibration of it. One thing I did notice though, is there's only so much that your ARC calibration can do. - Exactly. - There's still a void over there. - It's the cherry on top. It's not gonna change your world. - No, but it's better. What about your impressions? This is your setup. - Well, let me sit there. - (sighs) You piece of (beep). (upbeat music) - I wanna see some
intelligibility of dialogue. - Wait, you're not gonna
give music impressions other than that? - I'm not ready to. I need to audition it
for longer than that. (bass rumbling) That sounds awesome! - This is like neighbors
complaining level though. - The sound stage, I can
pinpoint all the sounds. Like when he stepped on
that cello and broke it, it was like right in front of me. I can't wipe the smile from
my face, this is so sweet. - Yeah, it's night and day, man. Any regrets about spending $2,700 of your budget on the receiver? - Not yet, but a receiver is
the type of thing you like, you learn about over time,
the quirks and stuff. But right now I'm very happy. It looks awesome, it sounds awesome. And it's gonna be future proof
enough for me for many years. - The way James flips his
computer over to his TV for now, is just by moving the cable, because he's only got
a single HDMI output. But what you'll do in the future then, is you'll just go display
port out to a new monitor, 'cause this one doesn't have display port. And then you'll go HDMI
out to your receiver. And then you can just
switch the input and boom. Now we're ready with the gaming PC. - [James] Hold on, I need to be able to see this from my wired
keyboard over there. - [Linus] You do? Where's
your wireless one? - In my storage locker. - Oh. - I haven't couch gamed in a long time. - [Linus] Okay, this is co-op gaming. - [James] Oh, it looks fantastic. - [Linus] How's the sound?
- High fidelity. - [Linus] So that's pretty much it. Once you move into the new place, you can get the wireless
keyboard mouse out. You'll have gaming, movies, music, everything freaking covered, it's sick. - [James] I'm very
happy, it sound amazing. - I saw your setup and I
was like, "Wait a minute. We're upgrading something that
is already freaking amazing?" But then I tried it and it blew chunks. And now it's awesome. Man, now you didn't
totally waste your money on these speakers, because. - Those weren't as expensive
as you would've thought. Marketplace, baby.
- Oh. - My stuff's all used, all the time. This was the first new
stuff I've ever had. - [Linus] And yet when
I give you a budget, you go and buy a bunch of stuff brand new. I see how it works. Or rather, Intel did. So thanks, again, to Intel for sponsoring Extreme Tech Upgrade: James Edition. We will see you guys at the next one, which I believe is going to be. - Maybe Alex. - Oh, it might be, the
one and only, Alex Clark. If you guys are looking
for another video to watch, make sure that you guys check out our previous Intel
Extreme Tech Upgrades with Dennis, Riley, Colton, all kinds of colorful characters. Oh, Dennis.