The reality is you guys were right. Realistically, with rising interest rates and inflation, we probably would have gone down eventually. But after the slowdown in production, after the controversy last August, guys, we're out of money and we can't afford our office buildings anymore. There is a silver lining though. We were able to hold onto one asset, the old Langley house. So, one little eviction notice to the tenants later, et voila, the new old Linus Media Group office. We're moving back in. Honestly, I see this as a win. I mean, before we grew too big for our britches, we used to shoot our videos here in this regular residential house. So why can't we do it again? It's where we created bangers, like whole room water cooling, the ultimate RGB build guide, and more importantly, that time we pranked old Taran for a year. I mean, realistically, if it worked for 10 people, it should work
for 100 people. We just knew that creating an efficient layout was going to be a
top priority. I mean, the first day I was here, I couldn't take two steps without bumping into something or tripping over somebody. So we divided up the house by department and gave everyone an equal
workspace. Just turned out that some departments got a little bit more equal
workspace than others. We're going to start in the living room. Oh. After we tell you about our sponsor, please don't skip. We really need the money. Build Redux. Not everyone has time to build themselves a PC. That's obvious. What's also obvious is that you should let the experts at Build Redux do that for you. Check them out at the link below. Oh my God. Oh, wow. I think it's worse than I imagined. Oh my God, we moved the poor editors here too? Everybody's here, Linus. The whole company. In this corner where the Techquickie green screen used to be, we still have a green screen, but we've also got the writing department. How's the transition been, guys? It's been all right so far. I think you're gonna enjoy it. We had a power surge and my computer died. Hey, glass half full, you still have a computer. Before they took the keys, we had everyone just kind of snatch everything that was within arm's reach, including their computers. So we're actually... Pretty good there, but the issue is that asking everyone to sneak a desk out seemed like a tall order. Realistically, look around. It's not like every one of these people could have had a traditional desk anyway. That's why Jordan actually came up with the idea of bunk desks. I mean, we just added the junior writing position, so they get the ground spots while the senior writers get the top bunks. Nice. Don't worry, buddy. You'll get up here one day. While the view is good from the top,
the commute has some problems. We've got Creator Warehouse engineers working on improved solutions
for this, which you guys might catch later on in the video. Keep your eyes peeled. Speaking of peeling, potatoes. You may already know from the tour of our potato farm
that we do our best to give our staff their yard time. I don't mean that in a literal sense. No one's allowed outside without a pass. Like yard time, like a prison, you know, time away from your cell. It's a joke. Quiet on set. Now, one big challenge is going from four fridges to one has led to some significant food storage problems. So we started organizing pizza lunches every eating day. Everyone gets a slice and hey, cleanup is easy too. Which is nice because we've been doing most of our vlogs here in
the kitchen. It's like the good old days, only cozier. He's contractually obligated to do that. Linus, okay, we gotta shoot Techquickie now. We need the space. Morph
suit, Adam. Thanks to AI, Apple's next iPad is supposed to have a sense of
self. Linus, I can hear you talking! Come on! Yeah, I'm not having sets anymore. The green screen's been getting a ton of action, which means the editing den has been absolutely bustling. We were originally planning to put logistics here, but then I had a little brainstorm. They can't take this box truck back if they don't know where it is. I was concerned we wouldn't be able to pack all three of our surviving logistics members in here, but with how little of our inventory made it to the new space, it's not a problem. In fact, we're gonna have more room soon because there's almost no work for them to do, is there? Oh no. Oh, hi Mark. I see you are working off of one of my favorite kinds of products. Anything from a sponsor who hasn't abandoned us over our constant stream of controversies. Like UGreen. Please don't go away. Oh, which by the way, brings us to one of the problems that we had to solve here. Power delivery. You see, most Vancouver homes are serviced for about 10,000 watts, which sounds like a lot until you realize that across a hundred people, it's like a hundred watts each for all of their tech. And that's not including appliances or air conditioning or. Who turned these on? Who turned these on? Doesn't include a budget for lights. I told you guys there's no budget for lights and working in the
dark promotes positive chi. Look how much better we all feel right now. One of the ideas we had to solve this was to just have the editors work off of power-efficient laptops. You know, the kind that can be quickly grabbed in a hurry, but we realized that most of what we had on hand just wasn't sufficient for any kind of computation heavy workload like rendering video. We're currently working on a solution using jailbroken PS5s, which draw less than 200 watts each as our standardized workstations. We're gonna have the files that you need to jailbreak the PS5 linked in the description below, but. Sadly, we've run into some compatibility issues with Adobe Creative
Suite 6, so the editors were allowed to keep their Windows machines for now, on
the condition that they edit twice as many videos as before. 'Cause they've got twice as much power. We even let them keep full-sized desktop monitors, like these ones
from ViewSonic, that Lan fest might want back at some point. They're not getting it back. Sucks to be them. I mean, realistically, we're a great company that deserves their support anyway. Like look at this, Plouffe. This is a great workstation you've got here. Yeah, it's very ergonomic. I was working on an upcoming video where we're giving away gaming rigs to people who ask for them in the comments. What? What? That's what you're working on, isn't it? Ask for them in the comments? Yeah. Oh God. You know, and then here's the re-roll every time someone actually wins. Don't worry, it's fine. It won't cost anything. Oh God. Now, as you can imagine, having so many people in a house that's designed for five, maybe six people, there are not enough bathrooms to go around. We tested out some solutions like a schedule or those vibrating pucks they hand out at restaurants that it turns out you can just take. But the best system ended up being earning bathroom time on a merit basis, which for me means anytime I want. Ah, excuse me. Hey, hey, whoa, whoa. Again? Come on, you have your own bathroom. Oh. Dude, I take it back. Go, go ahead. Jeez. What are you doing? You're done. As for the post-lunch drop-off rush and the low merit individuals who just can never really earn any bathroom time, we operate a shuttle to the local Starbucks where our Mac address writer, Jonathan Horst, has made his office. Fun fact, he blends in so well with the crowd of artsy fartsy
people on the MacBooks. He's been there for weeks and they haven't even noticed him. At this point, you probably have some questions about network infrastructure. The editors are clearly all connected to ethernet cables and we've got some pretty high end stuff we were able to snag right here, but where do these cables come from? Where do they go? Let me show you. One thing we will never compromise on is our ball and servers. And I mean, look, I knew that we could address almost all of our infrastructure issues if we just set people up to work remotely and. In fairness to me, I allowed most of the managers to work from
home, but for everyone else, we've got to connect to new, new, new, new, new
Whonnock and our 10 gig internet connection that we achieved by aggregating links
from nine of our unsuspecting neighbors. Thanks, neighbors. Right? Thanks, neighbors. Let's check out the server. We wanted to put it downstairs where we could take advantage of the natural heat regulation of the basement, but now that we can't afford his executive level pay anymore, Luke enthusiastically volunteered to move back into the basement. Hey, Luke! Working hard or hardly working? F*** you! Yeah. We're such good friends, we could talk to each other like that. Oh, on our way upstairs then to see the server, we're going to pass
our business and procurement teams on the house's naturally embedded cushioned benches. With all the changes that we're making around here, we decided
there was nothing more important than to streamline the money-making processes, and we're putting it
all right into our script writing now. Hey, you make me any money today, Sherrod? Absolutely. Wait, are you on LinkedIn? No. He's not. As for any confidential calls, the business team just takes those in their cars. In the car, Sven! Sorry, sorry, sorry! For F*** sakes, man! In the car! Okay, perfect. Sorry, sorry, my boss is-- Just give me that. I'll just do it. He'll talk to you in a minute. I gotta have a chat with him first. Meet me outside. I'll be out there eventually. Here, take your phone. Other than the occasional insubordination, I'd say this department is doing great! You guys doing great? Now for the server room. Oh, Dan. Good job. Do you wanna tell the people about what we've got going on here? This used to be an infrastructure map and now it's this, which is great. Yeah, thanks, I guess. Oh yeah, so this is our like Unifi rack we had to send the Hammonds back. Yep. And our internet comes in through here. Through the window? No, it's on the floor. I don't want it running through my office. Bring it in through the window. Okay. Okay, by tomorrow. And then we've got the portable NAS over there. Yeah. We don't have Whonnock anymore. And then these are the mother vault. Ah, we went back to the old vault. You got like 20 terabytes now. Wow, and wifi. Yeah. No one else is allowed to connect to this one though, right? This is mine? Six, yeah, sure. I prefer yes to sure. I can't change this anymore. Obviously there's still some work for you to do then Dan, but there's some really cool stuff. Like this is still a working bathroom. Check this out, I can wash my hands. No, it gets so hot. Honestly, this whole place is kind of hot. Not only is every computer a space heater, but every one of my world-class meat sacks produces around another
80 watts, meaning we're at 18,000 watts. How do we cool that? Well, initially, we tried opening the windows. Pretty good idea, right? But then people started abusing their privileges, so we had to think outside the box. You've seen water-cooled room. You've seen water-cooled chair. Have you seen water-cooled humans? In here, we've got our camera storage, which we don't have a lot of it, but hey, we don't have a lot of studio space anymore. So, win-win, and our amazing accounting department. This is pretty cool, right? All we needed was a couple pumps, some tubes, some painkillers, and a garbage bag. It just runs in there. Then, to prevent them from getting swamp butt, we used camping chairs, so any extra moisture just Collects in the bottom and then seeps into the carpet where it can
be dissipated into the rest of the room I'm speaking of collection guys. Is there any money today? Are you
playing video games? Enough of these guys who likes accountants anyway now, let's see
what creator warehouse is up to you Might remember there being more people on the team and you're right we sent half of them on a trip to china to work closer with our
manufacturers literally then to save money and keep our prices low for you we cancelled
their return airfare that's a lose-win-win what are the engineers working on i can't help feeling
like we used to draw things on computers we still can his is dead though and this way getting a
sign off is much easier too oh yeah Ready to go to the manufacturers. Fun fact, this is Nick's old office back when we were working out of this house the first time. Just now he shares it with about eight other people. Yeah, and we still get kicked out on Fridays for the WAN show. Here on the other side of our now in-house screwdriver production facility, we've got our social team. As you guys probably know, Twitter and TikTok don't pay particularly well and we had to cost down, but we can't stop the content mill. So these guys just need to take up. A little less space than before. you guys are doing good? This is a
bastion. I have a question. I have a question for you Why are you not posting cat memes? I only get paid in cloud
exposure That's a good question, why don't we turn our attention to the
fashion team? What are you working on? So right now, you know just measuring some fabric for some new
styles testing out to make sure that the GSM is what we want Whether we want a heavyweight or lightweight garment, you know all
that good stuff, right? But have you costed it down? Yes. Like way down. I know, yeah. We're talking cents. And that's why it's red. Died red with the blood. Oh God. Meanwhile, in the final corner of this spacious office, we've got a Llamade. It's a little tougher to measure things, I guess, without a table. How do you do it now? Well, you go on the floor. Why does this have blood on it? I put my blood, sweat, and tears into it, just like we do with all of our merch at LTT Store. Yeah. You heard it here first, one in every hundred shirts will have authentic Sarah tears on it. And to show we care about our customers just as much as our employees, we kept over 19% of our customer care team right here in the closet. Thanks, Nolan. You're doing God's work. You're welcome. I tell him I'm God. There's not much to see in here, though. It's basically like the rest of the house. I mean, look at this awful paint job. Do they even know what eggshell is? I mean, I guess I've got my plants and oh, this is where I have my visions. This isn't the time for work though, I'm giving you guys a tour. Now you might wonder why exactly it is that I need my own exit from
the building and it's because just because my job is to have visions doesn't mean that I have to see all of the people who execute them. . It feels good to be outside. By the way, this is where we're shooting short circuit these days.
Let's go have a look. It's just like the old days. Thanks so much for watching guys. Make sure to check out another
video like the one where we learned to sous-vide a sausage. That's a good one. It took a really long time because the heater on
this hot tub doesn't work so good. But hey, I mean look we're ready for all the different elements.
Bell even has a full 40% of this Woo! Hot tub covered doing good in there. It'll be warm soon. At least
it would if we never paid the gas bill Oh, there's our parking lot The neighbors don't really like it, but uh f*ck 'em. This is fun,
right? I mean securing a parking spot at the old office was almost a
bloodsport So as you can imagine this it's more like the Thunderdome a hundred
people enter one person gets rich You know like the Angry Maxwell movie In the meantime We've developed an efficient system for fitting an incredible 30
whole cars where our neighbors used to access their garages and the only Scratches are from when they get keyed We really are making the best out of what could have been a tough
situation But you know what I always say what doesn't kill us makes us
stronger I feel stronger Oh, we ended up in HR They suck. Let's go look at the lab. Sorry for breathing Things are a little tight in here, but we're making it work. How's
it going Gary? It's going great all right Let's see then if you can handle this one more time. Okay, what's
better geforce or arc? arc Oh Okay again geforce Arc? arc Oh He's gonna get it eventually How's it going John? We got a lot of space here. That's a good
attitude I like to hear that and what are you working on? We're retesting
the XTX because everybody keeps complaining about it Oh, that's a good idea. Actually, there's a there's a lot of kind
of Redoing that's been going on including adjusting the labs as
attitude Antoine here is undergoing a mandatory new training program Antoine we've been through this we live as a team we die as a team it is amazing how many tax
write-offs you can fit in this bad boy, infinite money glitch. yeah it all kind of came together I was
worried it would be a tough transition but instead it feels like going back to
our roots and guys this is just the beginning we've got all kinds of great
content planned for you guys like a whole human water cooling v2 where we
actually mix the chilled liquid with their blood which is gonna be really cool oh and my personal favorite the best
tech for faking your death and leaving the country on that subject hey shout out
view sonic and lan fest for lending us those monitors that you can get back if you
can find us good luck though because the only people we give this address to are
the ones that send us checks like our sponsor squarespace whether you're
starting a new business or growing an existing one a functional and informative
website is key to taking things to the next level squarespace's user-
friendly all-in-one platform uses intuitive drag and drop elements so you can
make an eye-catching and engaging page for your audience to interact with all
with no coding experience required and if you're building out something a little
more custom their asset library lets you manage all your files from one central
hub and use them across the squarespace platform use it anywhere but if you're having a little trouble or just need some inspiration
you can check out their comprehensive guides and call up their 24 7 support team
help help i need help oh thank you and after your website's up and running use
advanced analytical insights to see what you're doing right and what needs a
little tweaking so if you need a website and and you do i mean everyone does
think squarespace head to squarespace.com/ltt and get 10 off today what was that wait who's that hey no no