- This little red pill contains everything You need to take an old or
slow computer; in this case a Macbook Air, and breathe
fresh life into it. And get this, it doesn't even have to
plug into the Macbook Air. Neat right? And that's not all; it can also be used with an iPad, with proper
support for multitouch. (surprised what?) Look at this. I'm dragging icons around
on a Macbook with my finger. None of this is new, strictly speaking, but it showed up on my radar because there's actually a
PC compatible one coming. So, we'll be using the Mac
version to show you guys how it works, and see if it's
all it's cracked up to be. Like our sponsor, Honey is a free online shopping
tool that will find you the best promo codes on most
shopping websites like Amazon, eBay, and more. Get it today at joinhoney.com/ltt. Did I mention it's free? (upbeat music) At $130, the Luna display
isn't exactly cheap. At least, not if you only
intend to use it with an iPad. Sidecar comes with Mac os as with Catalina and just like Luna display, can use either WiFi or USB
connection to turn your iPad into a secondary display. In fact, Sidecar even offers
things that Luna display doesn't, like the command sidebar and context sensitive media control bar. So then, why spend that kind of money? Well, for starters, with
Luna, you can actually use the touchscreen to
interact with the desktop. Apple makes me so angry sometimes, because Sidecar does
allow you to use touch, which would indicate to us that there's no technical reason why you couldn't do it but it's just locked to only
work with an Apple Pencil. Luna meanwhile does away with
Apple's arbitrary restrictions and even enables the use
of multi-touch gestures. So that means that you
can much more easily take a connected session
and roam around with it. Now, of course, Apple's ecosystem
has answers to this too, with features like
handoff, letting you pick up where you left off
in apps that support it. But the thing is, not
every app does support it, and not every desktop app is
available on the iPad anyway. But wait, there's more;
while both Luna display and sidecar support the Apple Pencil, Luna display tends to have smoother input with quick strokes, resolving
smoothly more often. rather than snapping to angles like they tend to with Sidecar. This kind of makes sense,
given that their other product, Astropad adds more art focused features, like, custom pressure
curves, stroke smoothing, and external keyboard
shortcuts at the cost of being mirror only. Now
in testing performance between the two of them
seems quite similar. And for good reason;
both of them are powered by the same engine called
LIQUID, which promises lower latency and higher frame rates than competing software. They're so focused on it
in fact, that they even included a handy vitals
graph that lets you see the current bit rate and latency. By the way, make sure you
take care of your vitals with our super comfy
underwear from lttstore.com. Now, unfortunately, while their
low-latency claims might've been accurate before Apple
sherlocked them with Sidecar, when we fired up our LDAT
latency tester, we found that Apple's implementation
actually provided lower click to photon latency, and better
variants, both in wired and wireless modes. oof An interesting side note though, both implementations have similar delays between wired and wireless, but while Sidecar reliably
flashed the secondary screen every time we clicked, Luna
displays sometimes dropped it with checker boarding
showing up in some frames. So, while Luna displays
seems to handle input better than Sidecar does, Sidecar
offers a more consistent experience overall. One thing we couldn't measure,
was the latency that's added by inputs on the iPad side due to the way that both Luna
display and Sidecar handle touch. But subjectively, input lag on the secondary display seemed similar between the two, perhaps owing to the way the dongle works. Internally, this little puppy shows up
as a USB billboards device, which contains the serial
number, which is basically a way of saying that it's got
functionality that is only exposed when it's connected
to a compatible device. In this case, it seems to specifically
want USB alternative mode before it'll open up any
further. And on Mac os, the dongle exposes an input device, and a client device
that presumably acts as the secondary display. So altogether it seems like for the iPad. Sidecar is the more
responsive, and certainly less costly experience; while its
implementation of touch leaves something to be desired. Now as for using Macs as displays, this was actually my main
interest in this product. Since there's about to be a lot of Intel-based IMacs that
will eventually be discarded for shiny Apple silicon models. And well, I don't know,
it could be better. It can use WiFi, ethernet or Thunderbolt. And guys I've seen Thunderbolt
latencies go as low as two milliseconds, but the thing is, whichever
option you choose, it's gonna rely on CPU resources on the secondary machine. So depending on your
Mac, it could work great or it could be only
useful for productivity in web browsing like our Macbook Air here. Maybe we'll try it on the new IMacs when they get here though. Get subscribed so you
don't miss that. Also, while it will give an older
machine, a second lease on life allowing it to be used
as a secondary display, it won't do anything to
resurrect a Borkin machine. Since it's gonna have to
be fully booted to Mac os. To be clear however, this is
not a jab at Luna display. And I actually appreciate
that their product exists because their imperfect
solution, as imperfect as it might be, is the only way
to do this at all right now. And the most frustrating
thing about that, is that Apple used to have
this functionality built in. I've been complaining ever since the day they first removed target display mode. And guys, I am going to keep complaining till it's back, because it was great. You just plugged your old
Mac into your new Mac and, bippity boppity, off you go. A full quality connection
for the cost of a cable, with no encode or decode
nonsense or anything like that. And it kept old Macs out of
the trash. This decision, which Apple justified by
upgrading to a 5k display for which, no interface existed
yet was part of a slow slide into user unfriendly, and
environmentally unfriendly practices that actually
culminated in Apple launching real lawsuits against private
repair companies who wanted to prevent old, but otherwise
usable gadgets from effectively being loaded up in the
proverbial wood chipper. Apple's official stance is that Airplay, and now Sidecar, I guess, has taken the place of
target display mode. But the truth is that you
can't officially use Airplay to use another Mac's display. That is reserved solely for apple TV, or Airplay compatible devices because, no, there actually is no because. We have interfaces that can do 5k 60 now. So it's because (bleep) you. Go buy a monitor. Whoa, hang on guys. This video was literally already uploaded on Floatplane in early access, when Apple announced a
feature that basically sherlocked Luna display even
harder called Airplay to Mac. Yeah, that thing we
just said didn't exist. But there's still
something to our argument. Airplay to Mac requires Mac os Monterey. While Luna display will officially run on any Mac that can run El Capitan. So that includes IMacs as old
as 2007 for secondary displays or 2011 for the primary Mac. Monterey, meanwhile
requires a 2016 MacBook pro, or 2015 iMac at minimum. And according to Apple,
Macs older than 2018 may run at a lower resolution. That's a lot of old
computers that are missing out on Airplay to Mac, or that will end up getting a worse experience.
As for Luna display, they are soon launching
the version for Windows that's actually up for pre-order now. And while Windows does have
a similar feature built in, it's an optional line if
you guys weren't aware, it is far laggier than Luna
display is, at least on the Mac. So if all goes, well, maybe we can at least keep some PC all in ones, most of which also don't
have a way to continue to use their monitors after the
computer's usable life has expired, away from the electronics recyclers for at least a little while, at least long enough to
hear about our sponsor. Thanks to CleanMyMac X for
sponsoring today's video. CleanMyMac X is the all-in-one cleaning and optimization software for your Mac. It's got a simple and easy to use interface
that allows you to find outdated junk files and see what's taking up
your valuable storage space. You can also stay up to date
on what apps you have installed and what permissions they
have so you always know who has access to your
webcam and microphone. Use Smart Scan to find, and
get rid of old cash files. And while you're optimizing your computer, you can also check for and
remove malware to keep you safe. It natively supports the new Apple M1 Mac for a smoother experience. So why wait, check out CleanMyMac X today, and
download a free trial by using the link in
the video description. Thanks for watching
guys. For more subjective but not subjective graphic stuff, maybe go check out our video on RTX. Is it a total waste of money? I'll see you over there.