- [Male] Huge thanks to FlexiSpot
for sponsoring this video. They're the ones that provided
the desk portion of the desk. You've seen desks made out
of wood, plastic, metal and glass, but have you ever
seen one made out of radiators? I've got eight 560
millimeter radiators here that are gonna give us so much cooling. Even an Intel processor
is not gonna run hot. (digital music) Oh Jesus. If the weight is any measure
of quality, that's a good desk. This video was first pitched
by Depressed Zip File on our Discord server,
like almost a year ago, and I'm so glad we're
finally able to do it. Now, there's a couple reasons this isn't a totally stupid idea. We're constantly chasing
cooler and cooler builds while also trying to make
them quieter and quieter, and this might allow us to
run, what, like an RTX 3090 and a 12900Ks just completely passively. We've got so many radiators David. The first step of making
a desk made of radiators is going and modeling it in solid works. Now I made like a pretty crappy model. It wasn't too bad because AlphaCool does
give you the 3D models. So that's just awesome, it
allows you to do everything in CAD and know that it will all fit, but then after I convinced AlphaCool and Protocase to join us,
Labs Employee Number One, who's a real actual mechanical engineer, took it and did just a fantastic job designing the top of this. The way that these radiators mount to the desk is super simple. Originally, I had some ideas where like it's a big piece of metal that goes up and around and has a
glass on top and stuff. We decided against that.
This is much more elegant and much more likely to work. Just some very simple little brackets. These were laser cut out by Protocase than bent on a hydraulic press
and finally powder coated. I think they look awesome
and it's really simple. They just get bolted on there. And then this screws into the desk. We decided against having
glass on the top though because this is the
desk made of radiators, not a desk that happens to have
a bunch of radiators in it. I haven't opened this up yet,
and I'm so excited to see it. Protocase cut this on a massive
CNC router that they have. It's very similar to one that we have. We technically could have done this here, but they just do so much better of a job that like, it's gonna be well worth it. Look at that. I just want to briefly shoutout
Protocase Designer Six here. We didn't use it for the final design of this just because we have SolidWorks and are very efficient in using it. But if you don't have SolidWorks and want a custom case built, it's a really easy way to
just go about doing that. Now Protocase agreed to do
this for us on one condition. We tell you not to buy from them. Apparently a bunch of
hobbyists will call them after our videos and be like, "Hey, can you make this super complicated one off case for $110?" And they're like "Uh, no." If you are a large business
though, or have a budget, they do an exceptional job. This is, this is not a
$50 part as you can tell. Now, I guess we just
do a bunch of screwing. (upbeat music) It's a little bit floppy, but that's fine. All the support's on the bottom anyway. One thing that seems to be missing though is a reservoir support. So the plan is to have the PC here, monitor, the res like
right here or something. And it looks like there's just nothing for mounting the res. Yeah, for the reservoir
we're doing the ice ball. It looks cool. It should be pretty neat. Just sitting right here. We do need to figure out how
it's going to attach though. One thing you probably
would assume that we had figured out by the time
that we started building the desk made of radiators
is what PC we will use. Unfortunately, we have not. I was originally going to use this Oh [Bleep]. This PC, the VF-1 from VALKPC. Unfortunately it only
supports SFX power supplies and we need an SFX-L. Yeah, maybe this thing
from CaseLabs will be good. - Got the box? - Yep. - Hey, that looks pretty nice. - It's very nice, but it might be too big. I think this is from the
father-daughter build, the one where Linus'
three year old daughter went to build a PC with him. And I ended up building a PC while he played with his daughter. - That's most of your desk space. - That's a lot of desk space. Oh, that's way better. - It is way better, yeah. I'll see what I can pull out. - For the reservoir mounting. I had a couple of different ideas. So they include like this fan mount that would require us
drilling a hole there. Not very difficult, but then we would need to
drill a bunch more holes. Eh, it's just kind of a pain, like metal on metal might be kind of loud. What they also have, interestingly,
is this little plate. Now I think this is
supposed to be mounted using these little holes to some
sort of pump mount or whatever. What I think is gonna work
really well is we just use countersunk screws,
attach it like that and then double-sided tape it to the desk. Now we are doing this,
not because we're lazy, but for sound isolation. Having some nice 3M, you know, VHB tape on the bottom is going
to be an excellent damper and allow us to be nice and silent. Oh, that is pretty good. - It's even got holes for water cooling. - Oh, wow. Yeah, this is perfect. - It's literally perfect. - Can you still have loads of space? It fits the build in black,
but it's very sterile. Oh, racing stripes would be sick. All right. - Purple racing stripes. - Hell yeah. I like that. This is the beautiful thing about designing all of
your stuff in solid works. At first, you can make
decisions months ago completely forget what you decided and then come back and look at it. So I did not remember how the tubing and everything was going to flow, and how it was all going to work. There it is great. We did it. Don't have to think about it. (upbeat music) All of our fittings are on the desk. Now I'm going to do up the tubes. We don't have the PC built yet,
but I want to just make sure that the pump has no
problem pushing a bunch of water through this. Cause there is eight radiators
worth of restriction here. I also just wanna make sure that the soft tubing looks good enough. Hard tubing's just a pain in the ass. This will be a whole day longer
if I decide to go with that and I don't really want to. For cutting soft tubing, you don't need to use the Castrator 9000. If you got it, you might as well use it. It does cut very clean. What do we think of that, David? It doesn't seem too bad. - Yeah. We're just soft
tubing the whole thing; it's gonna be great. Progress has been going really well. So whole loop is like plumbed up. We also have the PC it's built. Unfortunately the RTX
3090 in here had to be stolen from the hot wheels PC. This RTX 3090 that's shrunk
modded just would not fit in anything like as you can see, this is where like the
PCIe normally stops. That's where GP's normally also stop. This goes like a good inch
past that, plus the fittings. It just does not fit in any small form factor PC that exists. So we've got i9-12900Ks here. It's the one with the copper IHS on it. We also have a thousand wat (1000W) SFX-L from Silverstone that
is insane that they fit that much horsepower into such
a small little power supply. It might not be the best idea to, you know fill the entire loop right now
with water because you know we're gonna need to drain it so that we can attach it to an actual desk. But at the same time I really wanna make sure that
everything works, no leaks. And most importantly, that
this PC right here, if we find out on Friday that it doesn't
work, then that sucks. And we don't get a video done. - AlphaCool logo's upside down. - You wanna get this Mark? - Problem solved. - Yep. - Wow. We sure flipped
those radiators fast. We're finally getting to the sponsor of the video FlexiSpot. They make standing desks
that I think are pretty good. I don't know we're putting
it together right now. We'll find out soon. So the first bit of
assembling your FlexiSpot desk is to get this part, which
is not from FlexiSpot, but it is a lot easier to
bolt onto our desk here. Let's see, like right about there. Made it through this one, no problem. Got to the FlexiSpot and our
not exactly sharp drill bit couldn't do it. Well, this is a pretty
good product demo to show how good their steel is. Wow. These instructions are incredible. It says a right here on page two, that if you're modifying it to use
with a desk made of radiators you should first try L brackets M8 bolts. And then when you realize that the FlexiSpot steel is too good, you should use 9/16th lag bolts
straight through some steel. (upbeat music) Oh [Beep]. Well the lag bolts aren't gonna work. And I'm about at the [Beep]
it, we're just doing it the easy way stage of doing this. Automotive grade. This is how we're doing it. When you're not trying
to modify it though, this is a pretty easy
desk to put together. And just for you FlexiSpot, I'll be nice and use all four screws on the bottom. On second thought, we're
doing it the right way. I made these little steel brackets, they're preloaded holds
the whole thing together and it's real nice and sturdy. This thing, yeah, is not going anywhere. Much better solution than zip ties. Anyway, let's fill the loop. The leak tester didn't even
budge all of last night. So it's finally time
to fill this thing up. I really hope this little PC works because Nicholas went ahead and made
us some racing stripes for it. And it would be a real sin
if we had to change it out. This is actually going to take forever. The little ice ball here
is not the best to fill up. I don't know how many liters
of water goes into all of these radiators, but we're
gonna be here for a while. My hand was getting tired
from all the squeezing. Work smarter, not harder. When this starts to overflow,
I'm just gonna hit the pump and we're gonna hope for the best. There we go. Come on, kick on, kick
on, kick on. There we go. Ah, that wasn't too bad. We might have done it. Probably once the bubbles
come out, that was about three and a half liters of
water in this water loop. HDMI one is plugged into HDMI two. Whoever did that, is an idiot. Well, we'll back in a bit. The computer is like dead, dead. CPU fan doesn't turn on. Sounds like something shorted
on the back of the board dead. I don't know what's going wrong but Nicholas is gonna figure it out. In the meantime, I need
to attach this desk made of radiators to a desk, which
is why you guys need to help. - I'm good. - We need to be very careful. - Oh, oh. - Yeah. Yes. As, as you see. - Okay. I see. Yep. Okay. - Okay. We did it. Good. Thank you. - Why is it coming out
of the quick disconnect? - It, it should not do that. - All right. Now it's bracket time. Yeah. I was thinking, oh I
need to lay on my back to get this desk, but no. FlexiSpot has standing desks. Haha. Attaching the table to
the desk is pretty simple. We have these brackets right here. It's going to go onto the
radiator, just like that. So two screws into the fan holes and then to attach it to the actual desk, we are just using some
simple metal self tappers. That'll go right in. It'll be great. So much better. Now I just need to do that for 16 clamps. That was really painless, actually. Screwing all of that
stuff in with the drill took less time that did to fill the loop. And I think it's all lined up. These brackets worked out really well. Again, thank you Protocase. Thank you LTT labs engineer designer. Did a good job. Think we're good to start screwing it in. And this. There we go. Nope. Balls. This drill pit seems duller
than our self tappers. - Haha. There it is! Okay. Oh, we're actually
into the bi-Oh thank God. Okay. Figured out the problem. Turns out the power
supply that we had died. Swapped it out, she works great. But anyway it works. Let's just make sure that our
temperatures are good here. 23 degrees on the CPU. That's exactly what we wanna see. And 21 degrees on the GPU. Hell yeah. (intense music) - I can't believe how
well this came together. Holy [Beep], what the hell are we cooling? That is a lot of heat. - There is. - Well you don't think so? - Oh yeah, that is a lot of heat. Are the fans even on right now? - Yeah they're on, yeah, yeah. - They are? - Oh yeah, they're on.
They're barely spinning. - Yeah. I have it set
up so they don't come on until it's 80 degrees on the processor. - What is making all of that noise? - It's the VRM fan. - Shut up. Oh, that's painful. So if we had water cooled
the VRMs on this board, it would be completely silent
with a 12900Ks and a 3090. This is kind of genius. Cause you consider how much
people spend on a nice tabletop. In my humble opinion, this looks amazing. Like it's industrial chic
and you compare that to like people will often spend five,
600 even a thousand dollars on a tabletop and like,
yeah, it's made a radiators. That's expensive, but like
it's within the realm. Are you one, two? Yeah. They're quadruple. They're quadruple, quadruple one 40 mil. - Each one's 150 bucks. - 150 bucks. Okay. 300, 600, 900, eh, 1200. Okay. Ah, it's really
expensive, but it's really cool. - This desk uses carbon steel. - Yeah. - Instead of you know the normal stuff. - Oh so like good steel. - Yeah. It was really
hard to drill through. It was a huge pain, we
ruin in so many drill bits. - That's amazing. I mean you can't fault the
quality of the product. Good job, FlexiSpot, but it's a little less modifiable. It seems Alex like you're telling me that a really good feature is a bug and then it's exactly what he did. - Yep. - I officially love this. Maybe it wouldn't make sense
to do with PC radiators, just because it was really expensive. But if you were to do some-wow,
listen to those fans go. At full bore. Boy, does this ever have
some cooling potential? But if you were to do
something like this with salvaged heater cores or
salvaged radiators from, you know, cars or you were
to just grab like an old condenser off of like a
refrigerator or something like that. Man, you could totally make
a build like this make sense. I love this thing, this turned out, like, actually, I was gonna say,
exactly like I envisioned it, but it's not, it's better. I had actually envisioned
it with like a glass top originally and then there
was gonna be like a spacer, so it was gonna be super thick. But this is just normal desk thickness. It's actually amazing. What is this blue piece of
masking tape that says AlphaCool? Oh, it's upside down. Oh no, Alex. Okay. That's fixed. - You can barely hear it. - Oh yeah. That's a D5 in there. Yeah. No D5's are the best. They last fricking forever. They're silent and they
move a ton of water. By the way, this looks
really clean at the back. I don't remember if this is
what we had originally discussed but this looks outstanding. I didn't think of this though, for sure. This is awesome. - The case came with those. - Oh the N case-oh, that's awesome. - FlexiSpot does have
a cable management spot in their desk and I filled it with fans. - I actually kind of love
that it ends up being like a hand warmer. You will never get cold in
the winter gaming on a setup like this; I would hate it for the summer. For the sum-You could
turn the fans around. - Yeah, you just turn on the fans. - No, no. Turn them around. So they suck ambient air
and blow the hot air away. So it's actually like cooling your hands. - I think that if you just
had the fans going kind of fast, it would be enough
cooling that your hands would get cooled, even though
the desk is kind of hot. - Let us know in the comments. I strongly disagree. This is Antoine. He's off
his probation by the time you guys see this video, he works for labs and he really stepped up
helping us get this catted out when Alex was super busy
with, well, everything. Hey this is 1440p Ultra
Nightmare with Ray tracing on and we're doing like 200
and whatever the frick FPS and the best part, CPUs
freaking peaked at; Really? 82 on the hottest peak core? Okay. This is a, this
is 12900Ks in fairness. It's the one with the copper
IHS and liquid metals. So we did hacks or this
one a little bit, but still that's amazing! The fans are
not even spinning right now. And then what's our GPU at? - I think the GPU's really good. - GPU temperature peaked at 53 degrees. Basically completely silent. That 80 mil is spinning,
but like, come on. It's not, it's not that bad. So you get a full coverage
block for the motherboard and then you don't even need
a fan in the chassis at all. - As the man behind
Case Made of Radiators, how do you feel about
Desk Made of Radiators? - Well, it looks a little more premium. I would say. Holy crap. - It's so hot. - Oh my God. - There's fans under it. - What? - They kick on when the
CPU is at 80 degrees. Maybe you should have them
turn a little bit earlier? - Oh man, this is awful. My wrists are sweating already. The warmest forbidden Poke Ball. It looks cool though. Holy [Beep]. - The mouse pads moving up. - Oh wow. It's immediately like
way more comfortable. This is, this is nice. It's like, it's like
ventilated seats in a car. Dude. Are these 3000 RPM industrials? - Oh yeah. - Jesus. Oh, I shouldn't
stick my hands under there. - No, yeah. That'll hurt. - That was, that was close to bad. I think I have to give
this a 10 out of 10. - Perfect. - 11, 11 out of 10. You know, it's actually, you know it's quite a bit better now
that the fans are running. If I just put my hands here. I think, I think if you set
them to like the minimum RPM it actually would be kind
of a nice experience. Luxury. They're pretty
fricking sturdy giving this desk is solid metal, you know? Yeah, well come stick your hand over here. Look, the mouse pad is floating. - Oh my God. Oh, this is
actually the perfect gamers set up for sweaty moments. - Oh yeah. - Except that it's blowing heat. - That's pretty cool. - Well just give it a sec, give it a sec. If you were in like a, a closed room, this would be not be ideal. All right, now that I've,
I've turned on the fans, I'm gonna have to give
this like a 30 out of 10. It's so cool. You're doing God's work out here, Alex. - Thanks to FlexiSpot for
sponsoring today's video. Their E7 desk is shockingly
stable when fully extended and can hold up to 355 pounds. From May 25th to 27th,
FlexiSpot is celebrating their birthday by having their biggest
sitewide sale of the year. On May 25th, you can get $130
off the FlexiSpot E7 desk for one day only. Remember to also check out
FlexiSpot's Facebook group for a chance to win freebies. We're gonna have links to everything in the description down below. This is amazing. Big shout out FlexiSpot
for sponsoring this video. Big shout out to you for watching it. If you enjoyed this
video, maybe go check out Oh, why don't you go check
out the ultimate thin desk PC. That was a good one too. - Or Case Made of Radiators. - Or Case Made of Radiators, yeah. That was pretty funny as well.