Today's video is about subdividing 
triangles and possibly indications   of how such subdivisions happen 
in higher dimensional analogues   of triangles. So we start with a triangle 
and we use a subdivision that is classic   in mathematics, the Barycentric subdivision.
- (Brady: This could be any triangle, basically?) This could be any triangle, but for the time being 
let's let's be as an equilateral triangle. We want   to subdivide the area of this triangle into 
smaller pieces. The barycentric subdivision   proceeds as follows: in order to subdivide it 
we need more vertices first. And the vertices   here we get by looking at the so-called faces of 
the object. So faces are the vertices, the edges,   and the whole triangle. And for each of those 
we take the barycentre; which is like the centre   point in a in a certain sense, the sum of the 
vertices divided by the number of vertices;  and for the actual vertices this is just the 
vertex itself; for an edge it's the midpoint   of this edge; and then we have the barycentre 
of the whole triangle somewhere here. And now   we need to know how to draw the edges of the 
new triangle, and we need a rule for that. And   the rule is that we connect two vertices of this 
new set of vertices if the corresponding faces   are contained in each other. So for example, we 
keep this edge from here to here - so this is   now a single edge - because this is the centre 
point of this edge which contains this vertex.   We also have an edge from here to here because 
this vertex is part of the whole triangle.  We have no edge from here to here because 
this vertex is not contained in this edge.   so we continue with that so this one is we have 
an edge here because this edge is contained in   the whole triangle and so on. So this is the 
barycentric subdivision of this triangle;   we've got six new triangles. You can continue, 
you can now uh start subdividing again to a   new refinement like- now you go to each of those 
triangles, you do the same thing, subdivide, you   can do this to each of these six. Again subdivide 
and you get a finer and finer set of triangles   which covers the original area of these triangles.
- (You were telling me there might   be a problem with this.)
- Well it depends on what purpose you are   doing that for. I mean one purpose you could do is 
an applied purpose, you have many triangles that,   say, try to approximate a shape - you model some 
monster in a movie. Your original set of triangles   is too coarse, there are too many edges in your 
monster and you want to have it more smooth,   and then you try to do this by having smaller 
and smaller triangles. Now if you do barycentric   subdivision one of the disadvantages of this 
subdivision is that the angles in these triangles,   they become more and more acute or obtuse. So 
here you have a very acute triangle and here   even more and so on. So the angles become uneven, 
the triangles tend to be kind of lengthy, and   that's not what you want usually if you want to 
model. For mathematical purposes the barycentric   subdivision is perfectly fine, there are very 
many applications in mathematics of barycentric   subdivisions of triangles, higher dimensional 
simplices, and so on. The alternative is the   so-called Edgewise Subdivision. So now, again, we 
need first to create a new set of vertices and the   way we create this new set of vertices here is 
a different one. So I will draw a little second   picture, which now is supposed to be in 3-space. 
These are the coordinate axes of 3-dimensional   space, and now I place exactly this triangle 
here in this position. So the coordinates now   of these three points are 1 in the x Direction, 
0 in the y direction and 0 in the z direction;  and here I get 0 in the x direction, 1 in 
the y direction, 0 in this z direction and   then here have 001. And now I choose a number 
r and I dilate this triangle by this number r.   So let's, for example, take r equals to 3. This 
point now is 300, this point here is somewhere   here 030, this point here now being 003. On 
this new triangle there are no more points   with integer coordinates. On this line here 
we also have the point with coordinates 120   and the point with coordinates 210. And then 
there is a point somewhere here in the middle   which has coordinates 111. So this gives us 
our new set of points that in the original   barycentric subdivision we had obtained by taking 
barycentres. So let me draw these points now here;  so now for r equals to 3, so the number we have 
chosen, is a kind of degree of freedom for the   subdivision. And now this vertex becomes like 
300, this one is 030, and this 003. So this is   these correspondents between the triangle right 
here and the triangle I've drawn here. And then   we draw the additional vertices: these are these 
integer points here from these lines copied,   and then the point in the middle 111. Okay, now 
again we need a rule how to connect these points   in order to form the new triangles.
- (Why do we need a rule? how come   I- I) (can't just do it by 
eye? Like it's not- you know,   I couldn't just join all the dots?)
- Yeah, actually in- if you if you want   to create a very even subdivision then prob- 
there's a good guess; and the good guess is   this one is a triangle, this one here is a 
triangle, this is a triangle and so on. That   will be the edgewise subdivision. You could 
as well take for example a triangle this way,   that's also a possibility. Or even a very strange 
triangle: like here an edge, here and here.   So you need also a mathematical rule for doing 
this; and the actual need for that rule is more   apparent if you go to higher dimensions, 
if you subdivide simplices for example,   a tetrahedra, and even higher dimensional objects.
- (So as I look at this it all seems pretty   obvious but you're creating) (all this rigor 
because later on there'll be times when it's not   obvious what dots to join.) That's exactly true 
yes. So you change these coordinates slightly;   now instead of 300 you replace this by- you take 
the first coordinate which is 3, then you add the   first two coordinates is 0 plus 3 is 3 and then 
you add all coordinates which again gives 3. You do this here too; you start with 
a 2, the next sum is 2 plus 1 is 3,   2 plus 1 plus 0 is 3. 1 is copied, 1 plus 2 is 3, 
1 plus 2 plus 0 is 3, here the 0 is copied, 0 plus   3 is 303 and then another 3. And this one here 
you replace by 123; 1,1 plus 1, 1 plus 1 plus 1 and so on. And now the rule is that you take these 
new coordinates and you subtract them from each   other. For example you- you pick this vertex and 
this vertex, there you have 333 for this   vertex. You subtract 123 and the difference is -
taking coordinate-wise - you take 3 minus 1   is 2, 3 minus 2 is 1, and 3 minus 3 is 
0. So you get this 210. But you could also   take, for example, this vertex and this vertex; so 
you get 333 minus 233 which   then is 3 minus 2 is 1, 3 minus 3 is 0,
3 minus 3 is 0. The rule says do   not connect the two vertices that yield 210, but 
the ones that yield 100; and the reason is you   want the difference only uses 1, -1s and 
0s. Indeed you want that the difference is either   a combination of 1s and 0s or a combination of 
-1s and 0s. So this is not okay, this is okay,   and if you change the role of the 2 then 
it would be -100 - and again that would be okay.   (So it's almost like using this alternative number, 
each pair of coordinates has like sort of a code, a)   (relationship between them. And if that relationship 
number - this number - is 1- contains only 1s, only 0s,)  (or -1s you join them.)
- That's right. If you now apply this rule you will get the picture you   would have guessed from the beginning. This is 
the picture. So this yields nine triangles. And you see they're all actually congruent, it's 
all the same triangles - if you had started from an   equilateral triangle. 
- (Yeah, and presumably this is 
just a perfect thing, it can't work out any other)  (way that you ever get 1s and 0s that shouldn't 
be joined and-)
- That's right, it's an if and only if.  (And if you'd used a different number other than 
3 and you had lots and lots of divisions)   (along these lines - same rule applies?)
- The same rule 
applies, just the number of triangles increases.   So the number of triangles you get is always 
this number r squared. In- in general if you go   into higher dimensions, like you do this and 
apply this to say a tetrahedron - that's the next   dimension - so that would be a 3-dimensional 
object - you would get r cubed many new tetrahedra.   In general you get r to the d many new triangles or 
higher dimensional analogs of triangles. 
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9   (Works a treat. And what- and the advantage of this 
is we seem to get more friendly triangles do we?)   That's right, that's right. We get more friendly 
triangles, it's more evenly distributed, um you get- uh you get in 2 dimensions you get only - if you 
start with an equilateral triangle - you only get   congruent triangles. In the next dimension you get 
a small number of congruent simplices, and that's   also so for higher dimensions, is you can control how 
many different incongruent objects you get and   you also can control the deviation of their shape. 
- (So you've shown me 2-dimensions triangles but)   (you've also alluded to the fact this works in 
higher dimensions, we could get like a simplex,)   (like a 3-dimensional object and divide that up 
into three- 3D pieces could we?)
- That's right. I   mean the the 3D simplex, that's the tetrahedron so- 
- (We'll have four numbers for that will we?)
- For the edgewise   subdivision we have four numbers. For simplicity 
let's choose here r equals to 2 otherwise we   end up with too many dots and it becomes hard to 
visualise. So that means that now we place - in order   to get this picture here - we place this tetrahedron 
in 4-space, so in a 4-dimensional space;   and with the vertices being the unit coordinate 
vectors and then dilate this by 2.   So we end up with this for example being 2000, this being 0200, 0020, 0002. And then we get these 
new vertices, like that one, for example that would   be a 1001.
- (In the middle of each line)
- In the middle of each line. And then because r is   small, r is 2, we don't get any additional point 
in the middle. Like here you get something in the   interior of this triangle; and here you get nothing 
in the interior of each face and also nothing in   the interior of the whole tetrahedron. If r is 
3 we get some- an additional point in   the interior of every these triangles, and if 
r is 4 we would get a point in the middle.   But now let's apply this rule, it's already a bit 
more tricky. So here you do of course the same on   each face, so that's the easy rule, essentially 
we have seen in dimension 2; but now this is   not yet a subdivision into tetrahedra. I mean, you 
see here there is a tetrahedron sitting on top, a   tetrahedra sitting on the front, the tetrahedron 
sitting here - but then in the middle you have   this object which is actually an octahedron and 
you need to further subdivide it and for that   suddenly this edge becomes important, you need to 
connect those two vertices. And in order to get   this to subdivide into tetrahedra you draw another edge 
here in the middle. This new edge now serves as an   edge that subdivides this octahedron into four tetrahedron.
- (When I'm doing a subdivision here)   (and I'm using your magic rule you showed me here 
with the- you know, transferring the coordinates)  (and then subtracting them; is it still the 1s- the 
1s and the -1s I'm looking for to decide)   (when to make a join?) 
- Exactly so you you you make a 
transformation of these coordinates, the same   way we did before - you take the first coordinate 
then add the first two, and the first three, and the   first four - and then you subtract these new 
coordinates from each other. If the resulting vector is a 0,1 vector or it's a 0, -1 vector then you connect them by an edge. (Okay. Presumably you can have multiple 1s 
and, you know, it could be- have- it did it have-)   (Does it only ever have one 1 or can I have multiple 1s?)
- It can have multiple 1s. (Yeah, it's made of only 1s and-)
- It's all made of only 1s 
but it's not permissible to have 1 and -1, that that would not be permissible. It's just 
either 1 and 0 or -1 and 0.  (So for sort of a computer programmer or a modeler or an 
animator or someone, they would prefer to subdivide)  (their triangles using this method presumably?)
- Yes, yes
- (You're not one of those people, you're a pure mathematician)  That's right. 
- (What do you like to use? Do you prefer this barycentric? 
Or do you like these edgewise?) I mean both are good and both serve 
different purposes. So in in mathematics, I mean the   baryentric subdivision is a is a classical object 
that is used in algebraic topology and serves   therefore many purposes. The edgewise subdivision 
also actually came from algebraic topology but has   also many applications in combinatorics, algebraic 
topology, and other fields.
- (You've shown me two ways) (to subdivide a triangle today, are there other ways?)
- Yeah there are very many different ways. You can   just imagine like you can combine the edgewise 
and the barycentric subdivision; like you first   subdivide say barycentrically and then subdivide 
each triangle edgewise by some r. But you can also   do different things as I shown you before; I mean 
the the fact that were choosing this edge here   instead of this edge here, this was in order 
to make our triangles as even as possible, but   mathematically it's also okay to remove this edge 
and instead have this edge. So there are many ways;   you can do flips on these triangles on these 
edges to create new ways of subdividing your   original triangle.
- (You were talking earlier about 
a practical application, you were talking about)  (rendering a monster in a movie or something, 
but mathematicians are doing this just purely)  (for abstract purposes, just for for research and 
to create new mathematics are they? There's like)   (there's just weird places you go with this.)
- That's right, I mean we have many questions, many questions   are have been answered but there are also many 
questions that are open about these objects.   So uh the this the complete understanding of the 
structure of the number of faces that appear when   you do this iteratively for barycentric subdivision 
or edgewise subdivision has only been unravelled in the   last 20 years. And there are still open questions, 
even though the objects look pretty simple.  (Can there be new ways to subdivide? Or that are 
useful? Or do you think pretty much all the ways)  (to subdivide a triangle are known now or?) 
- I think you can always come up with a new way of   subdividing if you have a new question. If there 
can be new mathematical questions where those two   methods are not good for, and there are new new methods 
for subdivision needed to solve these questions.   (It's exciting, I'd love to come up with a 
new subdivision myself, you could call it the Brady subdivision.)  Okay I- we gladly can work on that. 
- (All right let's- let's go upstairs and sort it out.) 
- Okay, let's go ...they're superhero triangles.
- These are our superhero triangles, absolutely.  I've now given you permission to put click 
bait thumbnails on this video. Get Captain   America over here, I can't believe it! Superhero triangles!
- Which one is the   actual centre of the triangle? 
- There is no 
actual centre, it depends on your viewpoint