So I want to talk about 7, because 7's a bit of 
a weird number. I mean it's weird because it's hard   to work out when something is divisible by 7 - if 
you've ever tried to do that you go, oh is that   7 times table? So I wanted to show you one weird 
trick to work out if something's divisible by   7. You do need to know your 7 times table a little 
bit - up to like say 100 - but then if you have   a larger number this is a useful trick. So we'll 
pick a number 434, is it divisible   by 7? I don't know just looking at it, I can't tell, 
so this is my one weird trick: you split it up into   two parts. I'm going to remove the last digit and 
we've got the rest of it as 43 and the last digit   as 4. And the trick is this: 5 times the last 
digit, so it's gonna be 5 times 4, plus the   rest 43, that's the little calculation I'm 
gonna do. What have I got? I've got 20 plus 43   is equal to 63. If that answer is divisible by 7 
your number was divisible by 7. And it is! That is,  what, 9 times 7? So I now know 434 is divisible 
by 7, that's the little trick. It works the other   way as well, if that had failed the test, if it 
was not a multiple of 7, then the original number   is not a multiple of 7 either. And you can even 
do this repeatedly if you've got a really big   number you can actually do this a couple of 
times. Let's say you got a bigger number, 6468, Is that divisible by 7? I don't know, I'm going 
to use my trick. So what I can do is I take   the last digit, 8, gonna multiply that by 5
and I add on the rest 646. What I got here? 40   plus 646, 686. I still don't know if that's divisible 
by 7 but I can repeat the process, so I'll just go   again. Take the last digit, so 6 times 5, and 
add the rest, the 68. well if I got? 30 plus 68, it's   98. Do you know what I could stop there, I know 98 
is divisible by 7, but just for fun let's take it   one extra step further, maybe you don't know 98 is 
divisible by 7. Last digit is 8, times 5 plus   the rest which would just be a 9 and that would 
be 40 plus 9 is 49. Yeah I'm confident that's   divisible by 7, it's 7 squared; and therefore my 
original number, which was the big number the 6468,  it's a multiple of 7. 
- (Brady: What do you do if you do the process to 49?) 
- Oh okay okay let's find   out, I don't know, I haven't done it! Let's find 
out. 49 uh okay last digit is a 9 times 5 plus the rest of it which is just the 4; and 
now what I'm gonna get here? 9 times   5 is 45 - tell me if I'm wrong - I 
forgot that, oh plus 4, oh it's 49.  Oh dear, we've got ourselves into a loop. These 
numbers can get larger because I'm adding   with this test, I'm adding a number on like so they 
kind of get big. There is an alternative version   we could do which might be more useful because the 
numbers get smaller instead. I do split it up again,   there's the 43 and the 4. I take the 
rest as I was calling it, the 43, I subtract   two times the last digit this time so this 
time it would be 43 minus 8 which would be 35.  Is that divisible by 7? Yes it is, therefore my 
number was. So that's a subtracting version of it   which might be more useful in some situations, 
maybe less useful in other situations. Do you   want to hear why it's true? You might want to try 
and work out why it's true actually, um but I am   going to show you so if you want to work it out 
make sure you do that, I'm going to show you how   it works. Why is that true? So if I write a number 
I could write a number like this: as 10x plus y,  y is the last digit and this 10x is the rest - 
or the x is what I was calling the rest. That's   just a different way of writing down a number. So 
I want to know if this is divisible by 7. I hope   you would agree that if if this is divisible by 
7, 5 times the number is divisible by 7 as well. I   think that's true isn't it? Yeah. So let's multiply 
this by 5. So I'm going to multiply this by 5,   so what am I going to get? 50x plus 5y. So I might 
want to know, is that divisible by 7? I'm going to   split this up in a different way, I'm going to 
have a little bracket here and I'm going to have x   plus 5y in a bracket and what's left over? I guess 
it's all the x's I haven't used, there's 49x left over.  So I want to know is this divisible by 7? 49 x is, 
definitely, I know that's definitely divisible by   7. So really the only thing that I need to ask 
is is that bracket is divisible by 7? But that   bracket is my test. This is my 5 times the last 
digit plus the rest. So if that bracket passes the   test, if it's divisible by 7, the original 
number was divisible by 7. And if it's not   then the original number wasn't either. 
- (Is it ever important to know if a number is divisible by 7?)   I- I'm sure I can think of situations where you 
would need to find if something is divisible by 7.   I mean it's more useful to know when 
things are difficult by 4 or 2 or   6 is kind of useful; and 7 is less useful unless 
you go into like a restaurant and you've got   7 people and you want to split the bill, you know, 
that kind of thing, so I can imagine. 
- (Rugby maybe?)   (Converted tries in rugby? Or or a touchdown 
with a field goal- with a conversion? A)   (touchdown with a conversion - 7 points? Yeah?)
- Look at my face - look how blank   my face is now, I have no idea what you're 
talking about. But maths is good isn't it?  Now that we've seen a test for the divisibility 
of 7, maybe it's nice to do a recap of some of the   tests for smaller numbers. And they might be useful, 
keep them in your pocket and then you'll know them.   Right how to tell if your number is divisible: 7 we 
know, we've now got a test for this, and it was the   5 times last digit plus rest. Awesome, tick. 
1, well everything's divisible by 1, okay   I'll just write that in then, everything. Let's 
do the easy ones next; divisible by 2, even   right? Even numbers. But another way of saying even 
is they end with a 0, a 2 a 4 or an 8, and then you know it's-
- (Or a 6) 
- And 5 is an easy one as well isn't it? Ends with a   0 or 5? Yep. And 10's an easy one, ends 
with a 0, cool. Those are the easy ones. The   next easiest test I think it's divisible by 9,
I've actually done a video about divisible by 9.   A trick that can check your arithmetic but I think 
this is something that everyone should know...
- Before   we called it casting out 9s or the rule of 
9; and the test for this is something called   the digit sum. We add up all the digits and if the 
digit sum is divisible by 9, tick, the original   number was. Let's just do an example. I'll steal 
the example I did before, right, 6468.   So the digit sum would be 
adding up the digits 6 plus 4 plus 6 plus   8. What have I got there? Uh 10, 16, 24. Which I 
guess means it's not divisible by 9, that failed   the divisibility test, but it does pass the test 
for 3. The test for 3 is the digit sum   again, this time if the digit sum is divisible 
by 3 the original number was divisible by   3. 11? Shall we have a look at the test for 
11? That's the alternating sum. It's the same   idea really, you alternate the plus and minuses; 
let's do that example to show you what I mean.   So I had this number again, the the 6468, start with the 6, you subtract the 4, you add the 6, you subtract 
an 8. So you keep plus and minusing the digits   like that. If that's 0 or a multiple of 
11 it passes the test. What if I got here?   It's a 2, an 8 minus an 8 is a 0. 
That's okay, so if it's a 0 it passes the test,  that means it's a multiple of 11. My number was a 
multiple of 11, all right. So what have we got left?   The next easiest one is 6 - how do we know 
if it's divisible by 6? Well all you do is   you apply two tests. Does it pass divisibility 
by 2 and the visibility by 3? If it does   then it's divisible by 6. So you have to pass 
two tests: divisibility by 2 and 3. What about   my example I've been using, the 6468? Yeah it 
passed the 3 test and it passes the even test   so it's divisible by 6. You do the 12 the 
same way, so it just needs to pass divisibility by   3 and 4. Oh I haven't done 4 so I should 
mention it; 4, what is the divisibility by 4   test? You look at the last two digits. Let's use-
let's use my example here. I just care about the   68. I really don't care how big this number is 
either, it's just it's just the 68 I care about,   and then is that divisible by 4? You might think, 
but is that hard? Working out if that's divisible by   4? I like to do um can I divide by 2 twice? 
Is it doubly even? So is it- can I divide by 2   and then is that even? I can divide by 2 again. 
So if I did that 68, is it doubly even? It'd be 34,   and then yeah that's even, which would be a 17 
if I halved it again. That passes. And for 8: this is the- apart from 7 I'd say 
8 is that maybe the harder one.   It's the last three digits; don't care how big 
the number is but it's the last three digits. And I'll do my little example: here's my 6468, I 
only care about the end of it, the 468 part, there   it is - is that divisible by 8? That's again 
kind of hard, is it triply even then? So is it   even? Can I divide by 2? Can I divide by 2? Can 
I divide by 2? So a little harder, but I think you   could do that in your head. Let's try it: 468, 234 
for halving it, and then can I halve it again? 117,   so I've halved it once, I've halved it twice, I 
think I'm gonna get stuck. So it's not divisible by   8 because it wasn't triply even.
- This video was 
supported by Jane Street; a research driven trading   firm based out of all the great cities like New 
York, Hong Kong, and London. Now they're supporting   us because some of the people at Jane Street enjoy 
watching Numberphile, but they also think the sort   of people watching like you are the curious 
and creative types that might be a good fit   to work with them. One of the great ways you 
can do that is through their internship program,   and the next round of those are actually being 
advertised as we speak. There's a link on the   screen but I'll also put all the stuff you need 
in the video description so you can check it out.   Have a look people, this could be the first step 
for you to an amazing and exciting international   career; and our thanks to the people at Jane 
Street for supporting Numberphile.  Divisibility - I thought it would just be nice 
to do a recap of um divisibly-   say that again! I thought it'd just be 
nice to do a recap of disaviliby - oh!   (This is turning into good bonus material!)
- I've discovered a word I can't say