- [Narrator] Has this
ever happened to you? (screams)
Well, no fear, because LEAKSHIELD is here. Stop leaks of all kinds, anywhere, anytime.
- Hooray! - [Narrator] Even helps you
fill and bleed your loops and at an incredible value. (record scratches)
- Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! Hold on a second. You're telling me this thing right here fills my loop for me, helps me bleed out all the air bubbles,
detects leaks, stops leaks, and gives me a whole
bunch of other information about my water cooling system? Okay, we're gonna have to test that out. And we're gonna have to
tell you about our sponsor. MSIs MPG Z590 Gaming Force motherboard supports 10th and 11th gen Intel core CPUs up to 5333 megahertz
memory, RGB, and a lot more. Check it out at the link down below. (upbeat music) Because of the outlandishness
of this product's claims, we needed not one but two test systems in order to try it out. One to actually plug it into
and monitor all the sensors and the second one to
sit here and look pretty with absolutely no power running
to any of the components, just in case the LEAKSHIELD is more of a leak leak. (laughs) Before we run it, though,
let's take a closer look at it. It's pretty straightforward, honestly. You've got a little display in the front, a simple menu interface
with this button right here. Okay, so you got short
presses and long presses. We'll show you that a little bit later. You've got your inputs
for power and sensors and then on the bottom,
ah yes, this membrane. Very interesting. It's appropriately labeled do not touch because any damage or
tampering with this membrane turns your LEAKSHIELD into a paperweight. It's function is to allow the LEAKSHIELD to draw air out of your system, creating a state of negative pressure, not so much that if it sprang a leak, you would actually suck
air into the system, but just enough to put it
in a state of equilibrium so that water won't come
out and air won't go in. In order to achieve this, it uses a wide array of parameters that it collects either through
software or through hardware that allow it to monitor pressure, the fill level, any pressure changes, any volume changes, pump speed, and flow. So the idea is that not only will it know if you have a leak, it'll
know how bad the leak is and respond accordingly. Oh, oh, right, right, sorry. And it has RGB, but not in a stupid way. This ring actually indicates
the status of your system. So it's like useful RGB. - [Brandon] You're saying
all RGB isn't useful? - No, I'm, yes. (both laugh) So how to hook it up. Basically there's only two
connectors on the LEAKSHIELD. There's a five pin, so this is USB, and you can either run
to an internal header on your motherboard, like we did, or you can actually power
it with a battery bank, using an external USB type A
if you wanted your LEAKSHIELD to be running, say, while
you're transporting your system in your car to a LAN party
or something like that. But if an e-ssues case,
but hey, there you go. And then there's a second one. This one is sold separately
and it allows the LEAKSHIELD to hardware power down your system in the event that it detects a leak, which is pretty sweet. We don't need it though,
because the LEAKSHIELD can do that through software. Of course, before we even fill it, the LEAKSHIELD can tell us
if our system is watertight. So let's go ahead and
open up the menu here. And we go to test and test. Trippy, hey? It's pressurizing the system right now. It's kinda loud, but that
doesn't go all the time. That's only while it is drawing air into or pulling air out of the system. There we go. We're at 296.3 millibar. Now it's normal for even a
watertight water cooling system to leak a little bit of air. You just wanna make
sure it's not too much. So Aqua Computer recommends
leaving LEAKSHIELD monitoring the system for
a few minutes, at least. And you can have a look
at how the pressure is doing over time by just long pressing. You get into this menu here
and, do-do-do, there it is. There is our pressure graph. If that's flat, then that's that. I opened up this valve to show you what the graph looks like if air is leaking out.
(LEAKSHIELD beeps) Now it's time for our
next trick, fill mode. That's right, pouring water
on the top of your reservoir, that's for non-LEAKSHIELD
peasants, apparently, now. So we're in fill mode. We throw some water in our
funnel here, lttstore.com With the water bottle. And then I'm gonna open up this valve and the LEAKSHIELD starts
sucking water into the loop. Ooh, need to top it up here. Look at it go! Self-fulfilling reservoir. Now, something to note is
you don't actually want the LEAKSHIELD completely full. It needs a little bit of air at the top in order to function because, remember, the membrane and the air? Now that we've filled, we can go ahead and power on our system,
including our pump. And we are going to put the
LEAKSHIELD in deairation mode. I mean, it really didn't
end up with any air in it because our tubes kinda had
some water in them before. Now it's time to run
our fill level sensor. Just about at 100%. Fill level's 73%, look at that. Trippy! I mean, it
looks about right to me. And we are ready to go into shield mood! Boom! Now all that remains is to start putting holes in the system. Leak protection, protected.
We should be good to go. Let's start causing problems. So let's say you forgot to
tighten one of the callers on one of your tubes or all of the callers on all of your tubes, I don't know. You're just, you're a
scatterbrain, you know what I mean? You just kinda threw those tubes in there and you're like, "Ah,
whatever, who cares?" So then you like, I dunno,
put some pressure on the tube. Oh God, oh cool.
(LEAKSHIELD beeps) It totally did it. Leakage, high pressure drop. I mean, it's bone dry, though. Oops.
(LEAKSHIELD beeps) Yeah, I should really
tighten these fittings. No water, though. Whoa! We're all over the place
here, ladies and gentlemen. (laughs) Warning, warning, critical leakage. - [Brandon] Yeah, I wonder why. - Maybe 'cause the user's an idiot! (Brandon grunts)
Got 'em! It's time to take things
to the next level. Aqua Computer's marketing
for this product says that you can just put holes in your tubing and the LEAKSHIELD will not leak water. I--
(drill whirs) So, here we go. I don't know if I can do it! It feels wrong! (drill whirs) (screams) (LEAKSHIELD beeps) - [Brandon] Jesus Christ, Linus. (laughs) - Now that's interesting. With the drill bit
sticking through it, okay, yeah, it leaked a bit. But look at that! It is not leaking. - [Brandon] It went straight through, too. - Damn LEAKSHIELD! You crazy! But why have two holes when
you can have three holes? (drill whirs) Okay, three holes is too much. (drill whirs) So you can see, the more
holes you have in the tubing, the more water leaks out. Okay, now what? I can only, I can, I only have two thumbs! Continuing this video's
theme of pushing the product to its limits, Aqua Computer
recommends a few things for the LEAKSHIELD. One is that you use there
reservoir and pump combo, two is that you use their coolant, and three is that you
use hard-lined tubing, which obviously helps when you're trying to precisely maintain the
pressure inside a loop. We're gonna be breaking that last rule. Now, if you're gonna
use soft-lined tubing, they do specify you've
gotta use thick wall rather than thin wall tubing. And they're gonna have the
exact measurements of tubing that you can use on their website. We're using thick wall tubing and we're gonna have some fun. After we fill it, of course.
(playful music) It's slicey-slicey time. (LEAKSHIELD beeps) (screams) (laughs) It's a little startling. That's okay, we can fix this. Hold on, we can fix this. I need some tape. Hold on! We're gonna fix the loop. Okay, oh, I'm so clumsy. Just gotta fix my tubing here. There we go. Oh, you're
all better now, buddy. Oh good heavens, I slipped again! Oh no, we gotta fix it again. There we go. There we go, all fixed. All fixed. You know, with the
LEAKSHIELD in my system, I might actually trust duct-taped tubing. Got some ideas. (Linus groans) Got some more ideas.
(Brandon exclaims) Ugh, come on, LEAKSHIELD, do your worst! (Linus groans) (LEAKSHIELD continues to beep) That's a big one. You can't shield my leaks! Actually, a lot of these
are not even really leaking. That's why they say
always twist, never stab. We've got one drop. That is darn impressive. One drop. Of course it's entirely possible the LEAKSHIELD isn't doing anything and if we turned it off, the
system would still not leak. We can test that. I release you, LEAKSHIELD. I actually put this fitting
back in before this demo 'cause I didn't wanna ah! (screams) - [Brandon] Why did you do that? Well I didn't think it would
spray out quite that hard. Ah, there we go, I'll
put the knife back in. That's why they say always quickly remove a stabbing implement. Okay, when the moment comes,
it's gonna be really cool. Okay, here we go. Come on LEAKSHIELD! Look at that, stop and sucks it back in. Now you have to configure the
LEAKSHIELD through software at least once, but beyond that, you actually don't need anything running for it to perform these basic functions. It does do way more if you
have an AIDA64 license, for example, it can tap into that. You can connect it to your
pump so it gets data from that. And there's all kinds of
cool things you can configure like your alarm thresholds and all kinds of neat stuff like that. But at the end of the
day, this is what people are buying it for, this peace of mind. And it can do it without
even being connected to the computer via USB,
which is darn impressive. Now, should you buy it? Well, it's not the most
economical way to test your loop. A couple paper towels costs pennies. And if you want to go a little
more sophisticated than that, EK has a pump pressure
tester that costs about $40. But in terms of ongoing peace of mind, or if you're transporting your system or if you experience
huge temperature swings, that actually can cause
pressure inside your tubing. I don't know, O-rings wear out over time. There's just nothing else like it. Absolutely nothing else like it. Just like there's nothing
else like my segues to sponsors like Corsair. Thanks Corsair for
sponsoring today's video. They're featuring their
IQ 700X RGB full tower. It's got three tempered glass panels, room for up to three 360
millimeter radiators, so it's great for water
cooling and it comes with four, of Corsair's SP 140 RGB Elite Fans. Their RapidRoute cable management makes cable managing a breeze. You won't even see any of them cables. And you can learn more about the 700X at the link in the video description. If you guys enjoyed this video and you like crazy water
cooling experiments, why don't we throw back to, why don't you go watch
whole room water cooling? What a great project that was. We went and put radiators
on the roof of the house we used to work out of. It was a nightmare. Did work, though.