(brassy upbeat music) - Apple AirPods Max, stylish, trendy, fashionable,
the ultimate status symbol, except they're fake. These knockoff Apole, not
to be confused with Apple, AirPods Max cost less than $200, all while promising to
deliver a one-to-one authentic experience, whatever that means. Let's see if they live up to the manufacturer's lofty claims. Like I live up to telling
you about our sponsor, at light audio, the
ModMic wireless microphone delivers best in class
audio quality, 12 plus hours of battery life, and
can magnetically mount to almost any headphones, even these. Get 15% off the ModMic wireless and other ModMic products
at the link down below. (brassy music) It shouldn't be a surprise
to anyone that the market for knockoff Apple products
is absolutely huge. If you roll over to your
favorite unscrupulous e-commerce site, be it
AliExpress, DHgate, or Wish, you will find an absolute
mountain of fake Apple products. Apple watch for $18. Sounds good to me. Well, sort of these kinds
of super budget rip offs are usually nothing like
the original product, aside from bearing a
passing resemblance to it. The performance and build
quality will be terrible. The battery life is typically non-existent and the feature set won't
even be in the same universe, let alone ballpark, but
in certain categories, if you step up your budget
a bit, there's this weird middle ground of premium knock-off devices that can actually come pretty
close to the real thing. And that is what I suspect
we have here today. These specific headphones
were sent over by a company that calls themselves Promax,
very clever name by the way. And they included a little note. Hi Linus. We here at pro max are excited for you to review our newest headphones. When we designed these headphones, we wanted to make something
similar to the AirPods Max, and have an emphasis on
price to quality ratio, active noise cancellation,
different colors, sound quality. We guarantee this will be
the best headphones available under the $200 mark and the
closest it will ever get to the original AirPods Max. Wow, same material,
same sound, same style, just much more affordable. Enjoy Promax team available at www.atpromax.com Sad story, by the way, that
website appears to be gone. Honestly speaking, this
note raises more questions than it answers. I mean, when we designed these headphones, what does that even mean? Does it count as design if you just scan someone else's product
and carbon copied it, or maybe even somehow gained
access to their tooling? I don't want to be a snob, but best headphones available under $200 and closest it will get to
the original AirPods Max, you got to pick one, bra, because their headphones under $200, it
sounded a lot better than even...