(whip cracking)
(intense music) - It's punishment time. This enormous pile of
to-be-tested DisplayPort cables comes from all the most popular brands. AmazonBasics, Monoprice,
Best Buy, and more. We bought three of each at various lengths for the most popular models to
give us multiple data points and we are going to be
painstakingly running all of them through our Total Phase Cable Tester to see who has the good stuff
and who has the crude stuff. I know our sponsor Build
Redux has the good stuff. They create PCs for gamers who wanna win and who want high frame rates
without breaking the bank. They're backed by a two year
parts and labor warranty, so you're covered, and you can click the link
in the video description to start creating your PC today. (upbeat music) Okay, I lied a bit. The cables have already been
tested at their rated speed, and if they passed, we pushed them even further to see who is under promising
and over delivering. We did over 100 runs in total and ended up with this
masterpiece of a spreadsheet. Proud of this one, aren't ya? - [Colin] Oh, yeah. - Nerd. Now why are we testing DisplayPort? Partly because we already tested HDMI and got a lot of requests to
follow up with DisplayPort, but the other half is that people like me and Wendell over at Level 1 Techs who apparently actually went out and bought one of these cable
testers after our last video have had a lot of issues with DisplayPort over the years from intermittent signaling issues to outright dead cables. And I think it's about
time I figure out why. Each cable went through our
Total Phase Cable Tester at the spec that it's rated for. Now, there are a total of eight versions of DisplayPort, two of which are minor a revisions that don't change much. So we'll acknowledge that
they exist and move along, and even some of the numbered ones, we didn't have to do much with. DisplayPort versions, 1.0 and
1.1 are relatively ancient, so that's part of why we're not testing any of those cables here. But the real reason is that
they weren't widely adopted, so most cables are rated for
at least DisplayPort 1.2, and it's the same story
for DisplayPort 1.3, it was superseded by
1.4 almost immediately, which carries the same bandwidth, but added support for display
stream compression 1.2 forward error correction
and HDR 10 metadata. That leaves us with really
three DisplayPorts that matter, 1.2, 1.4 and the upcoming 2.0 spec. In consumer terms, the biggest difference between these three is that each one is rated for a different maximum bandwidth, the higher, the number,
the faster it can go. Now, there are multiple
ways to hit that limit, you could crank the resolution, you could crank the refresh rate, you could crank the color depth, or realistically some
combination of those three, and then you just won't be able to go any higher unless you enable display stream compression, we could talk a little
bit more about that later. Now, here are the manufacturers
we're talking about today. You'll be familiar with many of these from our HDMI cable testing video, where we covered some things in more depth that we're gonna gloss
over a little bit today, like how digital signaling works. We're gonna have a card in the end screen if you're playing catch-up. Now, here are our tests, we have three groupings, tab one in yellow are the cables that we're testing in
triplicate to eliminate flukes, these are the most popular ones, we're expecting most
of you to actually buy. Tab two in orange are single samples of 9 of the top 10 cables on Amazon. And finally, tab three in blue are cables that we sampled
from around the office, including bundled cables from monitors made by Aorus, Samsung, and ASUS ROG. All right, Colin, show us
what's behind tab number one. (drums rolling) - [Colin] Okay, they all passed. - Every single one passed. - [Colin] Every one. - Every, huh. That's not what I was expecting. So every single brand new cable that we purchased specifically
for this video passed at its rated spec which
I didn't see coming, but the science behind
it kind of makes sense. Here's the thing, the inside of a DisplayPort cable is actually very similar to
the inside of an HDMI cable, with only one more conductor for a total of 20 versus 19. Both of them have four-shielded
twisted pairs of conductors. You could think of them kind of like the sides of this lanyard but in HDMI, only three
of them carry data, with a fourth kind of skinnier one that just is reserved for clock pulses. DisplayPort takes advantage here by using all four shielded pairs to transmit data. You know what, this isn't working, let's just do a different visual, new colors of lanyards on lttstore.com. This allows each pair to
run at a lower frequency while maintaining overall
transmission parity with HDMI. So with 12 of the 20 conductors used for the signal plus, signal
minus and ground connections, that leaves eight other conductors that are used to run a
configuration channel, an auxiliary channel,
and a power connection. The power connection actually goes unused in common cables though, and is reserved for use in devices with integrated DisplayPort cables, and having these wires
connected can actually cause a short circuit condition that was a problem in the past, particularly with cheap
mini DisplayPort cables. Fun fact, by the way, those locking tabs on the end are not actually part of the official
DisplayPort specification, they are nice to have though. Now with respect to our results, we can gather that this
reduction in signaling frequency is contributing to
better signal integrity, leading to DisplayPort cables being more consistent than
what we saw with HDMI. So if you're buying a
brand new cable today, cheap is probably cheerful, and Infinite Cables once
again topped our list for the lowest cost per foot, followed by AmazonBasics and Monoprice, but we're not done yet. Inside the dense document, that is the DisplayPort standard, there exists a set of definitions
for transmission modes, these are the bit rates that DisplayPorts can transmit data at. We're not talking about
resolutions per se, but rather the speed at which the cable operates, full stop. DisplayPort 1.4, for example, is compatible with four
different transmission modes, RBR, HBR, HBR2 and HBR3, which peaks at 8.1 gigabits
per second, per lane. That means with four lanes, DisplayPort 1.4's peak bandwidth is 32.4 gigabits per second. That is significantly less
than the 48 gigabit per second maximum of HDMI 2.1. I am not calling it that (chuckles). To get around this, some
applications of DisplayPort have implemented more
than the usual four lanes. Apple famously created a custom eight-lane
DisplayPort 1.2 interface to drive the first 5K iMac, and Thunderbolt can also
have up to eight lanes allowing it to carry two display signals over a single cable. The longterm solution, however, is DisplayPort 2.0, which
can run in three new modes named according to
their per lane bit rate. Now we'll talk about why
that matters shortly, but first let's take a
look at our next tab, Amazon's best sellers. How'd they do? - [Colin] All passed. - Every single one passed again? - [Colin] Again. - Now that's crazy. Every single one of them not only met the current spec
that they were rated for, but even met the next
gen UHBR10 spec, wild. Now they're not an amazing deal cost-wise, but at least they're
easy to order, I guess, and they helped us confirm
an interesting pattern, or so we thought. One of the insidious ways that a bad DisplayPort cable can get ya is by working but not working
at the correct link speed. That's actually a feature, not a bug. DisplayPort is fully backwards compatible, so every time you plug in, the devices go through a
sort of handshake process called link training, which determines the speed that they can operate at without errors, and even if the devices are both capable of a greater speed, let's say DisplayPort 1.4, a bad cable could drag them back to a slower link speed, let's say DisplayPort 1.2, and this can be really hard to diagnose because the links can be
renegotiated on the fly, meaning that they might
work fine for a bit, then drop down, only to
jump back into action again. And we ran into just such a
cable in tab number three, where we grabbed some
longer DisplayPort cables that we've purchased over the years, as well as a handful of cables that were included with the monitors. I knew it (laughs), I knew it. I've had so many issues with those 25-foot Monoprice cables that we bought in bulk, like ages ago, but on this one, one of the four pairs
managed a continuity check, so it is connected, but failed on signal, which is the worst kind of fail. I'm going to enjoy cutting this cable up. - [Brandon] Oh my God, that nearly hit the lens. - Oh did it really?
- [Brandon] Yeah. - We also had one of
Samsung's bundled cables fail out right here, continuity means that the conductors are just not conducting. Now we didn't have enough of those kicking around that we could
just positively identify as Samsung bundled cables, so we couldn't draw a clear conclusion. Other than that, the one included with your monitor might not be the best quality, but pretty much any reputable brand cable off the shelf should be okay, even if you're a forward-thinking consumer who might wanna get the most out of Intel's upcoming
Arc Alchemist GPU's, which are confirmed to
have DisplayPort 2.0. Thanks to Samsung for
sponsoring today's video. Samsung has something new for you, The freestyle, it's a
point and play projector with a compact design and adjustable 180 degree cradle stand, you don't need to worry about
fiddling with a focus wheel or rearranging your projector because the auto sensing feature will intuitively correct skewed
and blurry images for you. If you're on the go, the freestyle has a 360 degrees speaker and a five watt woofer for
powerful all around sound, and you can power it
with an external battery, so it works no matter where you are. It uses Samsung's built-in
Smart TV experience that features Samsung TV plus,
various streaming platforms, and more while also
allowing you to use Bixby or Amazon A-L-E-X-A so
that you can go hands-free. It offers full HD resolution and the ability to project an image between 30 and 100 inches, allowing you to use it in a small space, or you can go all out and create an at-home theater experience. So take your theater
with you wherever you go with the Freestyle. You can learn more about
Samsung's The Freestyle, and get a free carrying case if you pre-order before February 10th using the link down below. If you guys enjoyed this video, go check out the HDMI cable testing video, where we've got into a
little bit more depth about what some of the charts that you guys might be
looking at here mean, and yeah, see like the
eye diagrams and stuff, and why a narrow eye is a bad eye.