I thought I would talk about a thing called a Nightingale diagram. All right, what's that? So it comes- it comes down to the fact that I was looking at, somewhat morbidly, looking at Covid mortality data and was kind of unimpressed with the ways that I had available to plot it. And there's always this problem that when you look at the usual way the data gets plotted, it gets like plotted January through to December and then it goes back to January again when you're looking at multiple years and so there's always this kind of discontinuity in the data at the end of the year, which of course is not any in any way real it's not physical it's just the way you choose to plot the data. So I was trying to see if there was any way of plotting it in a way that kind of gets rid of that discontinuity at the beginning and the end of the year. It turns out this is a solved problem, in fact it's a long solve problem. The reason why the solution is a thing called a Nightingale diagram is because it goes back to Florence Nightingale in the middle of the 19th
century who as well as you know being famous for her nursing was actually also famous for her data visualisation. We tend to kind of think of data visualisation as being something that was only invented with the computer age and with modern graphics but actually it turns out it has a pretty long history. But she was one of the very early proponents; and in fact not only was she producing beautiful plots but she was doing them for much the reason where- that people do data visualisation now which was to try and make an argument to convince people of her point of view, in this case politicians. She ended up publishing a book and a whole load of pamphlets which were distributed kind of making her case; and it was really the case for good cleanliness standards when you're treating sick people, and that was really what kind of- how she saved many many lives was by convincing everyone that actually good cleanliness was the way to do it. The plot she came up with was instead of plotting things as a line she plotted things around a circle. And the her plots went through various iterations, you can kind of see as she was in kind of improving the way she was presenting the data. So let me show you the first one that you came up with: this was the thing she referred to as a bat-wing diagram, and in essence you're going around in a circle and as you go around the circle for the different months of the year how far out you put the point is to do with the thing you're measuring. And she was also actually measuring mortality, this was death in the Crimean war, this was death of soldiers in the Crimean war. And so you could actually see when death rates were very high and then then she kind of jumps over to this second diagram to continue the circle around and really this is showing when she started introducing her her various sanitary measures for looking after the wounded soldiers that the death rates plummeted. And this- I mean this makes a rather salutary point that the- what what's actually measured here radially outwards is the deaths per thousand soldiers per year effectively; and it actually peaks at over a thousand. So what this is saying is that if the death rate had continued at that rate the entire entire army would have been killed in less than a year so she was really making rather a
strong point. As I say it was kind of radially outwards, she didn't like this version of the plot because because she shaded it in to create this kind of bat-wing effect she was concerned that people would be looking at the area and thinking the area was what was representing rather than the radial displacement. And and of course they don't quite scale the same way because because area goes as distance squared and so actually the the area is measuring a different thing from what the radius is measuring. So in her next sort of iteration, and the the plot that she's most famous for, for illustrating this she kind of came up with a coloured version of the same plot. Only now she has actually scaled it so that the areas are representing death and the extra subtlety she's introduced is she's now got colours in here which represent different things. So for example the blue were the soldiers who were dying of disease in the hospitals whereas the pink was the soldiers who were dying of their
wounds, of actually the injuries they'd received. And this very graphically makes this incredibly strong point that actually the main thing that was killing the army wasn't actually getting shot it was what happened after they got shot that they then got cholera and various other nasty diseases and were dying in the hospital. And again she shows the effect of what happens when she introduces her mitigation steps and suddenly the numbers drop right back down again. So all this inspired me to think that the right way of presenting the mortality data when I was trying to understand what was going on with Covid mortality was to do the same thing. So I actually made a a version of her plot; and this is actually like like her first plot this is actually one of these ones where the radial distance is measuring the mortality. And so I was really just interested to see quite how out of line this last year has been in terms of of deaths in the population. 
And it's- you know it's pretty blatant when you look at this that nothing much was happening until you get to April and then suddenly things jump up to these incredibly high values, drop back down again to more or less nothing very much but then actually you can see from October onwards in the
UK, deaths have been riding high above the average. The black line here is the last 10 years, the pink is last year, and then I switched over to do it in red for 2021. And so in 2021 we're now hopefully at least turning things back over again and coming back down. But even for the last data that was released in the UK for the middle of February there's still significant excess mortality over any of the previous decade. Professor, tell me about how this deals with the January-December problem. So really there's nothing- you know, because you're just going around in a circle all I've done is I've just sort of joined the lines up. So there's actually a- there's a sort of long-running spiral going around here effectively. And so as you can see- so 2020 here was
in this tasteful shade of magenta and when you get to the end of the year it just joins on to the red for 2021. There are all sorts of subtleties you see in the data, like there's this dramatic strange V-dip at the end of the year. And actually you can see there's a couple of others at other points in the year; they're just basically when there were holidays in the UK because this is when dates- when deaths were 
being registered and if the the registry offices are closed
then the the registration of deaths just gets delayed. So you can see all sorts of quite subtle things in the data but the the basic issue of the fact that the years just join on seamlessly to each other as you just go round and round rather than getting to the end of a line and having to go back to the beginning
again. It's a much sort of cleaner, tidier way of presenting the data. Does it cause problems sort of writing over yourself all the time though going around in these laps? Sort of all the overlap?
- I mean in principle you sort of lose- you you lose the data, right, in that it all lies- ends up lying underneath the previous year. But in this case you know I was really just trying to show that that most years don't vary that much, so the fact that data was all kind of lying on top of each other; you can see in some years, you know, in January-February there's a worse flu epidemic than another year so that the number the numbers peak out a little bit higher, but really there isn't a lot of variation from year to year and actually having the data all lying on top of each other in these sort
of circles just underlines that point that there isn't very much and that last year really was very exceptional. 
- Professor, if these Nightingale graphs were
invented so long ago, by Florence Nightingale, and they're as good as you say they are and clean and I agree they they seem really clean and clever, why aren't they everywhere? Why don't I open up the Times newspaper in the morning and see Nightingale graphs? Why do I see the old-fashioned, you know x and y? I honestly don't know. I guess it's partly because people are very used to seeing old-fashioned x and y graphs and so actually you know you don't have to explain anything to them when you're showing them that kind of graph. And the sort of range of data you can plot with these are quite limited in the sense that actually you need something which is sort of cyclic, which goes around 
like the months of the year. So the other- I think the original purpose they were used for, a little bit before Florence Nightingale 
was using them, was plotting wind direction and how often the wind was coming from different directions. And again that's something which you can kind of show in that way because you've got something which goes naturally around in a circle, in that case the compass rose. But it has to be something which is naturally cyclic, which this is.
- Professor you're an astronomer, can we expect to start seeing these
Nightingale graphs in some Mike Merrifield astronomy papers in the years ahead? I guess so, if there's something- in fact yeah you could well do in that, for example we were looking at the angles at which galaxies are moving a little while ago and actually if I thought about it this would have been a really good way to present the data. The other places you see this a little bit are in kind of power diagrams, they're used for things like microphones that show you the direction in which the microphone has sensitivity as
you go around and you know as you point the microphone in different directions. But of course radio astronomers do the same thing when they're pointing their radio dishes, that actually they have, you know,
there's like a- where where the radio dish when it's pointed in a particular direction, it's most sensitive to things that are directly in front but of course its power doesn't drop off immediately as you go in different directions. So I think it's used a little bit in radio astronomy as well but really I've never seen them used in astronomy. She called them coxcomb 
diagrams which are- and I had to look that up, it's actually the name for the hat that a jester wears. And I think it was sort of intended to be a little bit self-deprecating that this is just a fancy way of presenting the data to get people's attention, just as the jester wears this fancy hat to get people's attention. So she called them that; they're also sometimes called honeycomb diagrams for reasons I don't quite understand and I think that might originally be meant to be something else.
- Professor as I said you're an astronomer, why are you sitting around plotting Covid mortality rates in the UK? Just because I'm a scientist and I'm nosy, right that's the nature of science, you're just kind of interested. And you know I'd heard various people make various statements about rates of mortality and so on and I just wanted to see for myself so I wanted to go back straightly straight to the the original source of the data, which in the UK is you know the Office for National Statistics. But they only- they'll provide you with excel spreadsheets with the data in and I wanted some way of then visualising that data, so that's why I ended up doing it. You can catch plenty more from Professor Merrifield on our sister channels dedicated to physics and astronomy; they're called Sixty Symbols and Deep Sky Videos. And if you want to think more like a scientist yourself why not check out today's episode sponsor Brilliant. Among their numerous courses is this one on scientific thinking. As always you can see it's superbly designed and- well look at that, really interactive. Not entirely sure about that dog but anyway I loved playing around in these rooms of mirrors and giving my brain a bit of a workout at the same time. If you already use Brilliant, why not give someone a subscription as a gift? If you'd like to check it out go to Brilliant.org/Numberphile. Using that url will give you 20% off a premium subscription. That's brilliant.org/Numberphile. And instability is something where if something starts to grow it will continue to grow. So if you start with a little perturbation it just becomes a bigger and bigger and bigger perturbation. And it turns out there is this thing called the Kelvin-Helmholtz instability which will kick in in this case. So let me draw the same thing again but with just the beginnings of kind of an instability in the middles.