- This is absolute madness. In our finale shot for this video, it can't look like this. I'm getting anxiety. I'm not gonna lie, ladies and gentlemen, I have no idea where to start with today's Intel Extreme Tech Upgrade. That's right, we're back with another $5,000 tech
makeover brought to you by Intel. And this time it is for the
longest standing employee of Linus Media Group
other than me or Yvonne, Edzel, our production manager, who, as you guys might assume since he has been with us the longest, has obviously stolen the most
equipment from the office. Right out of the gate,
I recognize this case, this case, I'm pretty sure that this monitor was company property at some point or another. And I'm pretty sure I'm not gonna have to dig much deeper to find a lot more. Okay. No, none of those. Okay, that monitor that
you didn't point out is from the office, but- - [Linus] This case is
from the office. Don't lie. - I bought that. - [Linus] From the office? - Yes. (upbeat music) (computer beeps) (title thumps) - It's unbelievable. This has to be why he has never
invited me to see his place, in spite of me asking for years. So why don't we, let's do the tour 'cause I've never gotten a tour. - Okay, I didn't invite you because there was a pandemic going on and, you know, it's not safe. - [Linus] I'd say the least
safe thing is this bathroom. I mean, you don't need a pandemic for this to be a health hazard. - It's not a hazard if I
know what I'm doing there. - Is this where you dissolve
your dismembered body parts? - No, I do that in an offsite location. I don't want those
chemicals down my drain. That is, (laughs) that is a squeegee. - You better blur this. (Edzel laughing)
(Andy laughing) - Upstairs you said it
was chaotic. I disagree. It was lived in. This, I admit, is chaotic. - Who are you trying to fool? You've clearly never
used this soldering iron. - [Edzel] I got that this week when I got the switches for my mouse. - He just wants that geek
street cred. Pathetic. - [Andy] Bought it this week. - You wanna steal stuff
from the office, fine. But do you have to
steal it and destroy it? What did you do to this mouse pad? Look how they massacred my boy. - So I put compound on
there to sharpen my knives. - Well, that's a use case for
it we're not gonna advertise. (Edzel laughs) I feel like your hoarding
could be an entire video and we don't even have to do
an Intel Extreme Tech Upgrade. What is with all these shoes? - [Edzel] That is a normal- - And why do you have ladies' shoes, Ed? - That's a normal shoe closet
and those are my wife's. - I've never met this wife either, so. - Oh my God. (laughs) That's a lie, you have! (laughs) I had to think, have you? - (laughs) I think many times. - I think I need to defend myself here. It's not as bad as, you
know, you make it seem. This folds, so it's like
a bit more out of the way. And this disassembles into two pieces, and then I can like, wheel it away into a corner of some sort.
- The shoe problem. The shoe problem is everywhere. You got the rack downstairs,
the closet downstairs, you got the shoes everywhere in this room. I'm almost afraid of
what I'll find upstairs. - There are no shoes upstairs. That's apparently against the rules. - I would say weird shoes
with all the toes cut out of them are against the rules too, and yet here we are. - Those are my wife's. (laughs) Okay, hold on. We both have toe socks. - You know what? We can continue to
unpack all of that later. The theme of today's
Intel Extreme Tech Upgrade is couples gaming. So both Ed and his wife
are getting RTX 3080s, and Ed is gonna be moving
to a Core i9-10850K because he just missed the cutoff to get an Alder Lake upgrade, which is very unfortunate,
(laughs) but that's okay. Also, there's gonna be a big TV upgrade, and he doesn't know this, but there is gonna be
some tidy up happening because this is a
troubled, troubled space. - I'm right here. I can hear you. - Troubled. (Edzel laughs) And why does your Extreme Tech
Upgrade include a cowboy hat? Two cowboy hats. What is going on? - I would never buy it with my own money just 'cause it's, you
know, kinda out there, but I've always wanted one
of those hats, so I got one. - And then you got another one. - For my wife because
it was a couples thing, and I feel like it would be
weird if I didn't get her a hat. - Are you sure the second one isn't for me so we can be matching for
the rest of this video? - Oh God. Okay. (laughs) - We need a bin. We're gonna start putting things in bins because this is absolute madness. There are two gaming mice on this desk. How many gaming mice are on this desk? One gaming mouse, we got
one stolen from work, wireless earphones. This is stolen from the office. - Is it stolen if it's swag? It's from the office, but it's not stolen. Well, it's not stolen if it's
swag until you take it home. This case is definitely from work. - It is from work.
- No one would actually buy this case. So this is one of the
rigs for upgrading, right? - We're not really upgrading the system because it's going to my nephew. - So what you're saying is
we're downgrading this system because you don't love your nephew. - Okay, my nephew's nine years old. I don't think he really needs, you know, that good of a system. It's a 9600K. - And did you just assume
your nephew's gaming needs? - I think I know what he's used to and he won't think this is all that bad. Don't you wish you had an uncle like Ed? He won't think it's all that bad. So what does come out, then? - [Edzel] The heat sink and
fan, the RAM, the power- - You're stealing your nephew's RAM? - Got more RAM. - Stone cold.
- It's 32 gigs of RAM. - The fact that he's nine makes
it better to steal from him? - [Edzel] It makes it easier. (cameraman laughs) - This is gonna be an adventure, guys. And what are we doing with Char's machine? We gotta change the GPU.
So you wanna shut it down? - [Edzel] Yep. I would have done a CPU
and motherboard upgrade for her system too, but
I blew it all on hats. - Spot the problem. It should be very obvious to someone who's been editing tech
videos for 10 years. - I haven't edited videos in a while. - Come on, Ed. - Nope, you've gotta give me a hint. - Ra. - Radiator? - RAM. - RAM? Oh, so they are
in the wrong places. - [Linus] He's running dual-channel memory on a quad-channel motherboard. - What happened there- - That's sad. - Was that I just took the RAM from these slots because I was lazy. (Edzel laughs) So my wife's system has a 7980XE. - Stolen from the office. There's no way you paid for that. - It was one from the office. - Oh, well, thank you for only taking one of them instead of two. - Ah, I hate you. - 32 gigs of RAM (laughs)
and this 1080 GI. - [Linus] What kind of
power supply you got? 'Cause you're throwing a 3080 in here. - It's a Corsair RM850x.
So it should be fine. - Probably fine. Yeah.
- Okay. - Let's take a look at what
generous Uncle Ed is putting in his nephew's machine. For a cooler, you're going
from an NF-U12A to a Hyper 212. I mean, at least you
sprung for the LED version. - He's a kid. I know what's important to children, and it's bright lights. - Honestly, the worst thing
about a cheaper cooler is not even the performance. Like this thing is pretty solid. It's just the mounting mechanism. Ah. - [Edzel] Oh, is it not very good. - It's just a pain. But that's okay. Why would you care? I'm the one dealing with it. - I told you I can build
my nephew's system. I just don't trust you to do a good job, and I think your nephew deserves better. That's all. - Yeah, but it would be done
and he wouldn't know better. He'd watched this video
so he'd know better. 'Cause he'd see what a
great job I'm gonna do of the systems that I build today, and he'd look at yours and
he'd be like, "Uncle Ed," and there'd be tears in his eyes, "Uncle Ed, why don't you love me?" How would you answer that? - I don't like kids. (laughs) - Yeah, that won't be
emotionally damaging. What I wanna know is how
you're gonna fix the RAM issue with your nephew's PC. I couldn't help noticing
when you were talking about budgeting for this,
eight gigs of RAM, Ed? So what, your nephew can have
like three Chrome tabs open? - Oh shoot, was that really only. Oh God. I'll get back to you on that. (laughs) - No, it's eight gigs
times two. Nevermind. I misread the package. - Oh my God. I'm like, "id
I just buy the wrong thing?" Oh, derp. - (laughs) Sorry, that's actually my bad. This is a pretty good kit. It's 3,000 megatransfers
per second. And see, 16. Do you have something that
I can use to blow this out? Actually, I have a small air
compressor with my airbrush, if you wanna use that. - Sure. Oh yeah, that'll do. Now, if there is any serious dust in here, like if Ed was a smoker or something, there's no way we'd be able to clean it out with this
wimpy little compressor, but this is actually
working reasonably well. I'm gonna leave this out here though, 'cause we're gonna need to
dust off the other machines. There's no way I'm leaving them like this. - Pro tech tip: You don't actually have to do things if other people will do them
for you because it annoys them. - That's not a tech tip.
That's an (beep) tip. - So the power supply has to come out. I'm using that one in my system. - Oh, more downgrades. - Yes, actually it is. Hold on. I mean, he'd be fine with a 650, right? He would be fine with the 650- - This is the-
- but he's love you more than that. So here we go. - That one is from the office.
It came from the Origin PC. - Why do you have an
extra random power supply like immediately accessible? He was gone for like eight seconds. - [Edzel] Oh, my storage
room isn't too bad. - Oh my God, there's a storage room. - [Edzel] Oh my God, no. (laughs) Oh no. - I mean, the way I see it, I paid for this house anyway, so. This is where all the stolen stuff is. More prototype merge. Well, this isn't even that bad. What were you so afraid
of me finding in here? - Ah, it's just lots of stuff.
- Your weird obsession with pillows shaped like this, or? - I originally didn't have a couch. I just wanted to use
these in my living room. - Oh my God. That's the
stupidest thing I've ever heard. - My cat kept clawing them and the insides were coming out, so we had to stop using them. (Linus laughs) - You know what? I shouldn't
knock it until I've tried it. I'm being very judgy right now.
This is instead of a couch. - [Edzel] Yeah. - I stand behind my
initial reaction. (laughs) - We were fine with it. You know, the people
who lived here were fine with it until we got the cat. - I mean, who wants to lean back anyway? Oh, oh, oh. Oh man, I'm gonna
crush the brim of this hat. - [Edzel] My hat! - Turtle.
- [Edzel] Do you need help? No, I'm good. I'm good. It's
just this defective chair. - [Edzel] Ah, I hate you. - Do you actually have
any drives installed in this front drive cage thing? - Yeah.
- Doesn't really feel like it. Oh you do? Oh my God, they're all SSDs. Okay, I'm assuming you're gonna need some of these drives, hey? - [Edzel] All of them. - Oh yeah, so you're
not gonna leave anything for your nephew. I see. - My nephew is getting... Wait where is it? - I already have it.
- Did you have the pile? - Sorry, what pile?
- You do have the pile. - Oh, that pile. - A one-terabyte SSD. - Sorry, I thought you were
talking about a different pile 'cause there's so many
piles in this house. (cameraman laughs)
- Oh. Whoa. I actually wanted to reuse that bay, but a lot of the cases that, you know, were in my price range
didn't have like, open slots. - [Linus] Oh yeah, 5 1/4-inch bays aren't really a thing anymore. - Yeah. Like that thing is so useful. I am going to put together
this monitor mount. - Oh my God, Ed. - [Edzel] What? - You mangled this mount. Holy (beep). It is a miracle that this thing is alive. - Oh, that's pretty bad. - Holy crap.
- And it still works. - Yeah, I'm not gonna mess with it now because it's gonna be so bent that you couldn't just
screw it in normally. - How was that graphics
card still working? - Because you got really lucky
and you didn't crack the die. Instead of having a heat spreader over top of the fragile die which spreads heat and also
spreads out mechanical force from the cooler being mounted, GPUs, they don't have those because you can actually
get better cooling results without having a heat spreader. And GPUs, they just don't have
the same space for coolers. They also don't need end users to be able to install coolers on them 'cause it should be
done by a manufacturer. So the die is just bare, meaning that if you
over-tighten it on one side, you can actually crack the actual chip. You can just like crack it. And obviously it stops
working at that point. So luckily, Ed did not manage to crack it, and I have no idea how that happened. - I lucked out twice.
Both cards work. (laughs) - It's clean. - [Andy] Shiny, like a new one. - Yeah. All right,
where's my side panels at? Do you have any cable ties other than this random one I found? - [Edzel] I have some RAR ties. - Some what ties? - [Edzel] RAR ties. - What are RAR ties? - Like ZIP, RAR. - Also, these are hook-and-loop
fasteners, not zip ties. - I was making, ugh, whatever. - Do you have any tweezers? Maybe if I ask for tweezers,
he'll get me the right thing. - If I hadn't handed you those, would it have been funny? - Oh, it was, no, it's still
funny. It's still funny. I'm just bothering you
by not laughing at it. (Edzel laughs) How long has it been since the side panel has been
attached to the computer, Ed? - I don't think it's ever
been on the computer. The side panel was beside the computer. - [Andy] So it's a side panel. - Yeah, it's a side panel. I thought about painting it, but I actually found out
last week his birthday is like, this week. - Yeah, because you haven't
had eight years already to figure out when his birthday is. - Okay, in my defense, I have trouble remembering my birthday. - This is my production manager. Let's get all the pieces
for Ed's machine out here. So we've got an MSI Z590-A Pro. Good middle of the range board. Got a PCI Express gen 4.0 M.2 slot in case Ed ever wants to upgrade to an 11th gen CPU and M.2 SSD. Since he didn't go gen 4.0 SSD, I actually really like Ed's choice of CPU. The 10850K has 10 cores, boosts nearly as high as the 10900K, and is a little bit more affordable. Wait, are you still working
on that monitor stand? Yeah, I don't if I'm derping, but this one doesn't actually want to grip onto the bar like the other one. - Are you sure you don't just
have to like, ream on it more? I mean, that's your specialty. - (laughs) Yeah, it is usually. - So the issue is that
you're bottoming out on the head on this one. So these weren't close enough together when it was threaded.
- Oh, I see. Yeah. - Clamp me daddy. - Hold on. I'm putting
this back in my butt. - Yeah. Fair enough. - Daddy is really weird.
You can't call people daddy. - Wait, where are you
going? Need more leverage. So we gotta go over to this side. - Okay. Yeah, I was
expecting you to just like, pull that one out and then we put it there.
- Pull it out? We're setting what our minimum, what our maximum openingness, openness is. All right. We have one small problem, Ed. You have a 3080 now. And this case has a lot of ventilation, but this particular
version of it only comes with a single front intake fan. Do you have any more fans? - I do. - Oh yeah, this is the same
crappy fans that Dennis got. - [Edzel] Yes they are. - Oh my God. Why did you buy these? - 'Cause they were cheap. Oh my God, this is an Ikea table. - [Linus] Yeah, Ikea.
They make good stuff. - Oh! - [Linus] What? - 'Kay. All right. - Did you not see their ROG line? - [Madison] It's like bending
back and forth as you move. - That wasn't so bad. - Yeah. - You don't see it
flexing and moving about? - Well, not from up here. (Edzel laughs) You know why these fans are cheap, right? Because you do half of
the assembly yourself. You should know this because you've watched Dennis' upgrade. - [Edzel] That didn't make
it into the cut. (laughs) (cameraman laughs) - All that matters to me is that you're happy with the result. - So wholesome.
- Based on what this place looks like, I think I can't possibly lose. (cameraman laughs) - Some say it's not the
destination that matters, it's the journey. And so far, this journey
is you being a dick. (cameraman laughs) - All right. I got my
up here fans installed. - [Andy] Up there? - Up there. Yeah, no, up here. Now I just gotta wire
up the RGB controller. So I'm thinking I'm gonna put it up here. - This is the Playseat Challenge. This is for my wife because
I already have my own. And I wanted to get
this so that, you know, we were on a level playing field when we're playing "Assetto
Corsa" or "Project CARS." I asked if she wanted one. She's like, "No, that
doesn't make any sense. Don't buy it." - Ah, but when Intel buys it for her. - She said, "Don't get this still." But I wanted to get. - Is anyone else getting
happy anniversary, I got you a blender vibes right now? - I never would've bought that for myself. We actually got it for her mom. And then she said, "No,
this is too expensive. I just wanted a juicer." We got that for like 50% off, and I'm like, I really
wanted a Vitamix forever and just couldn't justify it. Let's just keep this. Hey, this seems nicer than mine. - [Linus] So whose is it now? - If I get the swapped
quickly enough, I think we- - Oh my God.
- Oh my God, no! No!
(Edzel laughs) - [Linus] You can't. - [Andy] We're writing
names on that right now. - Yeah. Agreed. This is weird. I don't remember the up here
fan hub being like this. All the fans plug in with
just a single cable harness. So you don't have to
manage both power and RGB, but the less cool thing is that it's just got a SATA power connector and then there's no fan
control input for it. So I don't think your fans
are gonna be controllable, Ed. - Oh, that's fine. I run everything at full blast anyways. I have pretty bad tinnitus, so hearing nothing turns
into me hearing my tinnitus. - Oh.
- So like, some white noise is
actually pretty welcome. My house isn't that weird, right? - Oh, definitely. Yeah. Your basement's just unfinished. This is, I mean, it's finished. (Edzel laughs) Maybe I'm wrong. Commenters,
you let us know, all right? - [Edzel] Oh, they're
just gonna say it's weird. - No, the commenters
love disagreeing with me. So either they acknowledge the
weirdness or they lie to you. Those are the only two possible outcomes. It's funny because you've
always told me like, "Yeah, I like to have hobbies." But I never really
understood. Now I get it. - Ooh. Yep. Okay. Actually, it turns out this is different and actually not as good as mine. That's unfortunate. - [Andy] Okay, now we're writing
your name on the other one. - [Linus] Yeah. Yeah, you should, I thought
you wanted to switch, Ed. - (laughs) Yeah, but
then you guys told me no, and I thought, "You know, they're right." You guys convinced me. - [Linus] What a piece of crap. (Edzel laughs) - Oh God, don't get me
struggling with this. - [Linus] Yeah, if you can't do it, how can you give it to Char? You should give her the
properly working one. - [Andy] Yeah, you should
give her the best one. - [Linus] Yeah. - Well, I was using this thing, and then when I got the other thing, I asked if she wanted the other one. She said no because
she's a very considerate and loving wife, and I appreciate her.
- So what does that say about you? - If she's happy, I'm happy. (laughs) And if I'm happy, apparently she's happy. So it works out. - As long as you're happy. - I don't know if people are
gonna think I'm a bad person. - I can see the top
comment on this video now. Could Linus just find someone
who's not a total bastard to give an upgrade to? - [Edzel] Yeah, but what
does it say about you who hires all these people? - They'll never find a
community without me. I'm gonna build this company so they all have somewhere to go every day and be away from the rest of society. I'm doing the world a favor. - [Andy] Thanks, Linus! - [Linus] No problem, Andy. (Edzel laughs)
(Andy laughs) - This is a VR gunstock for FPS games. This part is not part of it, obviously. This is like some packing
foam and, you know, just hard plastic's not
all that comfortable. - Man, the disconnect between
how cool you feel in VR and how cool you look in
VR has never been this big. - As I've learned going into my 30s, how you look really doesn't matter. The most important thing is how you feel and whether you're happy or not. - [Linus] And whether
you have a pube lodged in your VR controller or not. - Have a what? Is it? - I'm just kidding. There's ticking on it. It's a cat hair. - Oh God. That would have
been weird and unexpected. You don't need controllers
for that. (laughs) - We have basically an hour to make this place not look junky. - Not junky? What are you talking about? - Not junky? Look. You put your VR headsets in
their cardboard boxes to charge. You have literally a closet
where you keep all your boxes. - But the boxes would just sit there. Now they're-
- They're just sitting here. - actually doing something. Not like holding the things. - Oh, I'm getting anxiety. (Edzel laughs) - We're just gonna leave this place an absolute disaster like we did with David's Intel home upgrade. I'm sorry, but all of this
stuff cannot stay here. This can't be here. In our finale shot for this video, it can't look like this. (both speaking rapidly) Oh, I love this. You have your "Adventure Time" plate that you made at work so that people would stop
stealing each other's plates and causing a big problem 'cause no one was cleaning anything. - And it turns out, that- - [Linus] Oh, that's
right. The ink was toxic. - So we got to take him home. (laughs) - Fond memories. Oh man, this XLR cable though. Jeez. - [Edzel] What? - [Linus] Okay. - [Edzel] Wait, what's
wrong with the XLR cable? - [Linus] No, no, just I'm stressed. - [Linus] Is it too late
to get Anthony here? - Everything clean. Everything clean. (Edzel laughs) Everything will be clean,
everything will be nice. Oh hey, we didn't even talk
about your monitor upgrades. - So it's a 4K display. I primarily got it so
that I could pass this one on to Char because she's
using this monitor. This monitor was actually
my workstation monitor back when we've worked out of Langley. You gave it to me, I didn't steal it. There we go. - [Linus] It's not very white. - [Edzel] No, so it hasn't been
white for a very long time. - [Linus] Yeah. - [Andy] It's very purple. - Yeah. - Yeah, so it's, you know,
it's an upgrade for that. - Oh, this is cool. Where'd you get a YouTube laptop bag? - [Edzel] I think someone
didn't want it and then- - Stolen from work, then? - Yeah, probably. - Just like your YouTube camera bag. - [Edzel] Okay, that's not stolen. You gave that to me in like the first year
I was working for you. - I do remember that. Oh crap. These are actually quite
coveted by collectors. There are not many out there.
- Are they really? - 'Cause this is, to my knowledge, the first official piece
of YouTube creator swag. - [Edzel] Wow. That's a toe spacer. - A what? - [Edzel] Toe spacer. - A toe spacer. - [Edzel] Yeah. (laughs) I mean, it's turned into the cat toy. - I will volunteer to come and spend a weekend helping you with this. You have a problem. Your battery charging should be in one of your storage rooms, sir. - Like how can it, do you
even know what's back here? - Okay. There's head-mounted light. - I find it like, accessible there if there's a storm and
there's a power outage. - You know what? Nevermind.
- Does that make sense? - You clearly don't want help, so. (Edzel laughs)
(cameraman laughs) - Does that not make sense? Like the first aid kit's there too. - Okay. I do enjoy Intel Extreme Tech Upgrades, but I think yours is among
the most stressful so far. Most people actually at least
tried to pretend to clean up before I came to look at their houses. - That's unrealistic. - It's not, oh my God. - Oh yes. We going OLED today, boys. - And one, two, three, pull
away on the bottom and lift up. There we go. Easy. - Oh wait. Oh God. - Oh, well.
- Your end is- - You said you were
gonna unplug everything, so I made the assumption
that you were not a big liar. So Nephew, if you're watching and Ed doesn't give you
this TV, you'll know. He just doesn't- - I love him. - Ed's looking for the mounting
hardware for his TV now because this ain't even close. - I have more similar,
different mounting things. (chuckles) I feel bad for Linus. - No, you don't. - [Edzel] I feel bad. - No, you don't. - [Edzel] Yeah. - [Linus] I'm dying. Get me
a screw that fits, please. - I don't mean to make your
life harder. It just happens. - Here's a tech tip for you. When we did Andy's upgrade, we didn't bother with the
peel on the back of his TV. It turns out that's a big problem. It actually needs to come off for cooling. Andy had to fix that after we left. - [Edzel] Is that applying? Is that how this works?
- Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. You're good. - [Edzel] God, I'm scared. - No, no, you're good. You're good. Oh wait. Oh my God, we like. Whoa, we almost nailed it.
- Think we're pretty good. - Just a little bit to the side. We'll cable manage this here. Good enough. Or as I call it, Ed's back. - Woo! - They want me to tell
you the specs of the TV. Sorry, Andy. Okay. So it's 4K up to 120 hertz. It supports G-Sync. So if Ed ever wanted to
drag his PC over here or run like an optical HDMI
cable through his kitchen, seems like the kind of thing he would do. But the first thing I'm gonna do now that we have the awesome TV setup is immediately transport myself to another world by wearing
a screen on my face. Do I have to like, grab it? Oh, I see. And then. (gun firing) How do you reload? - [Edzel] Oh God, the buttons
are just instinctive to me. Okay. So grab a mag from your left pocket. Yep. Okay. You have to charge the handle. Yep, that knob. - Well, this is tedious. I'm not convinced that this grip, oh wait! I'm not convinced this grip
improves the experience, Ed. - [Edzel] If you're trying
to go for precision, it loads better. - Okay, so you gotta
let go, grab a magazine, Oh God. Don't throw it on the ground. (Edzel laughs) Well, I'm sure it's fun for somebody. It wasn't easy, but Ed's
Intel Extreme Tech Upgrade is finally complete. Both his station and his wife's are now
significantly faster, not to mention, ahem, more color accurate. They've got two matching racing seats now to enjoy VR racing games, and the living room has gotten one of the biggest upgrades
with a 65-inch OLED display and of course the weird
gunstock VR accessory thing that I'm sure that Char's gonna use a lot. Right, Ed? - Yup. (laughs) - Definitely, that was definitely for both of them to enjoy. Catch us at the next one. It's gonna be either
Hoffman or Nicole, I think, a couple of our editors who
you don't know very well and will probably find to be
very interesting characters. Ed, I think I sweat in your hat a little. Enjoy your upgrade. (laughs)