
Discrete geometry - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
??Navigation
?
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
??Contribute
?
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page.
Search
Search
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
??Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
2Topics
Toggle Topics subsection
2.1Polyhedra and polytopes
2.2Packings, coverings and tilings
2.3Structural rigidity and flexibility
2.4Incidence structures
2.5Oriented matroids
2.6Geometric graph theory
2.7Simplicial complexes
2.8Topological combinatorics
2.9Lattices and discrete groups
2.10Digital geometry
2.11Discrete differential geometry
3See also
4Notes
5References
Toggle the table of contents
Discrete geometry
22 languages
????????????????BosanskiCatal?Espa?ol?????Fran?aisBahasa IndonesiaItaliano????????MagyarBahasa Melayu?????????????Portugu?sRom?n????????Tagalog??????????Ti?ng Vi?t????
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
??Actions
?
ReadEditView history
??General
?
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLWikidata item
??Print/export
?
Download as PDFPrintable version
??In other projects
?
Wikimedia Commons
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Branch of geometry that studies combinatorial properties and constructive methods
"Combinatorial geometry" redirects here. The term combinatorial geometry is also used in the theory of matroids to refer to a simple matroid, especially in older texts.
A collection of circles and the corresponding unit disk graph
Discrete geometry and combinatorial geometry are branches of geometry that study combinatorial properties and constructive methods of discrete geometric objects.  Most questions in discrete geometry involve finite or discrete sets of basic geometric objects, such as points, lines, planes, circles, spheres, polygons, and so forth.  The subject focuses on the combinatorial properties of these objects, such as how they intersect one another, or how they may be arranged to cover a larger object.
Discrete geometry has a large overlap with convex geometry and computational geometry, and is closely related to subjects such as finite geometry, combinatorial optimization, digital geometry, discrete differential geometry, geometric graph theory, toric geometry, and combinatorial topology.
History[edit]
Although polyhedra and tessellations had been studied for many years by people such as Kepler and Cauchy, modern discrete geometry has its origins in the late 19th century.  Early topics studied were: the density of circle packings by Thue, projective configurations by Reye and Steinitz, the geometry of numbers by Minkowski, and map colourings by Tait, Heawood, and Hadwiger.
L?szl? Fejes T?th, H.S.M. Coxeter, and Paul Erd?s laid the foundations of discrete geometry.[1][2][3]
Topics[edit]
Polyhedra and polytopes[edit]
Main articles: Polyhedron and Polytope
A polytope is a geometric object with flat sides, which exists in any general number of dimensions. A polygon is a polytope in two dimensions, a polyhedron in three dimensions, and so on in higher dimensions (such as a 4-polytope in four dimensions). Some theories further generalize the idea to include such objects as unbounded polytopes (apeirotopes and tessellations), and abstract polytopes.
The following are some of the aspects of polytopes studied in discrete geometry:
Polyhedral combinatorics
Lattice polytopes
Ehrhart polynomials
Pick's theorem
Hirsch conjecture
Opaque set
Packings, coverings and tilings[edit]
Main articles: circle packing and tessellation
Packings, coverings, and tilings are all ways of arranging uniform objects (typically circles, spheres, or tiles) in a regular way on a surface or manifold.
A sphere packing is an arrangement of non-overlapping spheres within a containing space. The spheres considered are usually all of identical size, and the space is usually three-dimensional Euclidean space. However, sphere packing problems can be generalised to consider unequal spheres, n-dimensional Euclidean space (where the problem becomes circle packing in two dimensions, or hypersphere packing in higher dimensions) or to non-Euclidean spaces such as hyperbolic space.
A tessellation of a flat surface is the tiling of a plane using one or more geometric shapes, called tiles, with no overlaps and no gaps. In mathematics, tessellations can be generalized to higher dimensions.
Specific topics in this area include:
Circle packings
Sphere packings
Kepler conjecture
Quasicrystals
Aperiodic tilings
Periodic graph
Finite subdivision rules
Structural rigidity and flexibility[edit]
Main article: Structural rigidity
Graphs are drawn as rods connected by rotating hinges. The cycle graph C4 drawn as a square can be tilted over by the blue force into a parallelogram, so it is a flexible graph. K3, drawn as a triangle, cannot be altered by any force that is applied to it, so it is a rigid graph.
Structural rigidity is a combinatorial theory for predicting the flexibility of ensembles formed by rigid bodies connected by flexible linkages or hinges.
Topics in this area include:
Cauchy's theorem
Flexible polyhedra
Incidence structures[edit]
Main article: Incidence structure
Seven points are elements of seven lines in the Fano plane, an example of an incidence structure.
Incidence structures generalize planes (such as affine, projective, and M?bius planes) as can be seen from their axiomatic definitions. Incidence structures also generalize the higher-dimensional analogs and the finite structures are sometimes called finite geometries.
Formally, an incidence structure is a triple
C
=
(
P
,
L
,
I
)
.
{\displaystyle C=(P,L,I).\,}
where P is a set of "points", L is a set of "lines" and 
I
?
P
×
L
{\displaystyle I\subseteq P\times L}
 is the incidence relation. The elements of 
I
{\displaystyle I}
 are called flags. If
(
p
,
l
)
?
I
,
{\displaystyle (p,l)\in I,}
we say that point p "lies on" line 
l
{\displaystyle l}
.
Topics in this area include:
Configurations
Line arrangements
Hyperplane arrangements
Buildings
Oriented matroids[edit]
Main article: Oriented matroid
An oriented matroid is a mathematical structure that abstracts the properties of directed graphs and of arrangements of vectors in a vector space over an ordered field (particularly for partially ordered vector spaces).[4] In comparison, an ordinary (i.e., non-oriented) matroid abstracts the dependence properties that are common both to graphs, which are not necessarily directed, and to arrangements of vectors over fields, which are not necessarily ordered.[5][6]
Geometric graph theory[edit]
Main article: Geometric graph theory
A geometric graph is a graph in which the vertices or edges are associated with geometric objects. Examples include Euclidean graphs, the 1-skeleton of a polyhedron or polytope, unit disk graphs, and visibility graphs.
Topics in this area include:
Graph drawing
Polyhedral graphs
Random geometric graphs
Voronoi diagrams and Delaunay triangulations
Simplicial complexes[edit]
Main article: Simplicial complex
A simplicial complex is a topological space of a certain kind, constructed by "gluing together" points, line segments, triangles, and their n-dimensional counterparts (see illustration).  Simplicial complexes should not be confused with the more abstract notion of a simplicial set appearing in modern simplicial homotopy theory.  The purely combinatorial counterpart to a simplicial complex is an abstract simplicial complex. See also random geometric complexes.
Topological combinatorics[edit]
Main article: Topological combinatorics
The discipline of combinatorial topology used combinatorial concepts in topology and in the early 20th century this turned into the field of algebraic topology.
In 1978, the situation was reversed - methods from algebraic topology were used to solve a problem in combinatorics - when L?szl? Lov?sz proved the Kneser conjecture, thus beginning the new study of topological combinatorics. Lov?sz's proof used the Borsuk-Ulam theorem and this theorem retains a prominent role in this new field. This theorem has many equivalent versions and analogs and has been used in the study of fair division problems.
Topics in this area include:
Sperner's lemma
Regular maps
Lattices and discrete groups[edit]
Main articles: Lattice (group) and discrete group
A discrete group is a group G equipped with the discrete topology. With this topology, G becomes a topological group. A discrete subgroup of a topological group G is a subgroup H whose relative topology is the discrete one. For example, the integers, Z, form a discrete subgroup of the reals, R (with the standard metric topology), but the rational numbers, Q, do not.
A lattice in a locally compact topological group is a discrete subgroup with the property that the quotient space has finite invariant measure. In the special case of subgroups of Rn, this amounts to the usual geometric notion of a lattice, and both the algebraic structure of lattices and the geometry of the totality of all lattices are relatively well understood. Deep results of Borel, Harish-Chandra, Mostow, Tamagawa, M. S. Raghunathan, Margulis, Zimmer obtained from the 1950s through the 1970s provided examples and generalized much of the theory to the setting of nilpotent Lie groups and semisimple algebraic groups over a local field. In the 1990s, Bass and Lubotzky initiated the study of tree lattices, which remains an active research area.
Topics in this area include:
Reflection groups
Triangle groups
Digital geometry[edit]
Main article: Digital geometry
Digital geometry deals with discrete sets (usually discrete point sets) considered to be digitized models or images of objects of the 2D or 3D Euclidean space.
Simply put, digitizing is replacing an object by a discrete set of its points. The images we see on the TV screen, the raster display of a computer, or in newspapers are in fact digital images.
Its main application areas are computer graphics and image analysis.[7]
Discrete differential geometry[edit]
Main article: Discrete differential geometry
Discrete differential geometry is the study of discrete counterparts of notions in differential geometry. Instead of smooth curves and surfaces, there are polygons, meshes, and simplicial complexes. It is used in the study of computer graphics and topological combinatorics.
Topics in this area include:
Discrete Laplace operator
Discrete exterior calculus
Discrete calculus
Discrete Morse theory
Topological combinatorics
Spectral shape analysis
Abstract differential geometry
Analysis on fractals
See also[edit]
Discrete and Computational Geometry (journal)
Discrete mathematics
Paul Erd?s
Notes[edit]
^ Pach, J?nos; et?al. (2008), Intuitive Geometry, in Memoriam L?szl? Fejes T?th, Alfr?d R?nyi Institute of Mathematics
^ 
Katona, G. O. H. (2005), "Laszlo Fejes Toth - Obituary", Studia Scientiarum Mathematicarum Hungarica, 42 (2): 113
^ 
B?r?ny, Imre (2010), "Discrete and convex geometry", in Horv?th, J?nos (ed.), A Panorama of Hungarian Mathematics in the Twentieth Century, I, New York: Springer, pp.?431-441, ISBN?9783540307211
^ Rockafellar 1969. Bj?rner et alia, Chapters 1-3. Bokowski, Chapter 1. Ziegler, Chapter 7.
^ Bj?rner et alia, Chapters 1-3. Bokowski, Chapters 1-4.
^ Because matroids and oriented matroids are abstractions of other mathematical abstractions, nearly all the relevant books are written for mathematical scientists rather than for the general public. For learning about oriented matroids, a good preparation is to study the textbook on linear optimization by Nering and Tucker, which is infused with oriented-matroid ideas, and then to proceed to Ziegler's lectures on polytopes.
^ See Li Chen, Digital and discrete geometry: Theory and Algorithms, Springer, 2014. 
References[edit]
Bezdek, Andr?s (2003). Discrete geometry: in honor of W. Kuperberg's 60th birthday. New York, N.Y: Marcel Dekker. ISBN?0-8247-0968-3.
Bezdek, K?roly (2010). Classical Topics in Discrete Geometry. New York, N.Y: Springer. ISBN?978-1-4419-0599-4.
Bezdek, K?roly (2013). Lectures on Sphere Arrangements - the Discrete Geometric Side. New York, N.Y: Springer. ISBN?978-1-4614-8117-1.
Bezdek, K?roly; Deza, Antoine; Ye, Yinyu (2013). Discrete Geometry and Optimization. New York, N.Y: Springer. ISBN?978-3-319-00200-2.
Brass, Peter; Moser, William; Pach, J?nos (2005). Research problems in discrete geometry. Berlin: Springer. ISBN?0-387-23815-8.
Pach, J?nos; Agarwal, Pankaj K. (1995). Combinatorial geometry. New York: Wiley-Interscience. ISBN?0-471-58890-3.
Goodman, Jacob E. and O'Rourke, Joseph (2004). Handbook of Discrete and Computational Geometry, Second Edition. Boca Raton: Chapman & Hall/CRC. ISBN?1-58488-301-4.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
Gruber, Peter M. (2007). Convex and Discrete Geometry. Berlin: Springer. ISBN?978-3-540-71132-2.
Matou?ek, Ji?? (2002). Lectures on discrete geometry. Berlin: Springer. ISBN?0-387-95374-4.
Vladimir Boltyanski, Horst Martini, Petru S. Soltan (1997). Excursions into Combinatorial Geometry. Springer. ISBN?3-540-61341-2.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
vteMajor mathematics areas
History
Timeline
Future
Outline
Lists
Glossary
Foundations
Category theory
Information theory
Mathematical logic
Philosophy of mathematics
Set theory
Type theory
Algebra
Abstract
Commutative
Elementary
Group theory
Linear
Multilinear
Universal
Homological
Analysis
Calculus
Real analysis
Complex analysis
Hypercomplex analysis
Differential equations
Functional analysis
Harmonic analysis
Measure theory
Discrete
Combinatorics
Graph theory
Order theory
Geometry
Algebraic
Analytic
Arithmetic
Differential
Discrete
Euclidean
Finite
Number theory
Arithmetic
Algebraic number theory
Analytic number theory
Diophantine geometry
Topology
General
Algebraic
Differential
Geometric
Homotopy theory
Applied
Engineering mathematics
Mathematical biology
Mathematical chemistry
Mathematical economics
Mathematical finance
Mathematical physics
Mathematical psychology
Mathematical sociology
Mathematical statistics
Probability
Statistics
Systems science
Control theory
Game theory
Operations research
Computational
Computer science
Theory of computation
Computational complexity theory
Numerical analysis
Optimization
Computer algebra
Related topics
Mathematicians
lists
Informal mathematics
Films about mathematicians
Recreational mathematics
Mathematics and art
Mathematics education
?Mathematics portal
 Category
 Commons
 WikiProject
Authority control databases: National 
Germany
Israel
United States
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Discrete_geometry&oldid=1177727209"
Category: Discrete geometryHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataCS1 maint: multiple names: authors listArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NKC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 29 September 2023, at 06:27?(UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia? is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Toggle limited content width
