
Middle English - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
??Navigation
?
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
??Contribute
?
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page.
Search
Search
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
??Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
Toggle History subsection
1.1Transition from Old English
1.2Early Middle English
1.314th century
1.4Late Middle English
2Phonology
3Morphology
Toggle Morphology subsection
3.1Nouns
3.2Adjectives
3.3Pronouns
3.4Verbs
4Orthography
Toggle Orthography subsection
4.1Alphabet
4.2Other symbols
4.3Letter-to-sound correspondences
5Sample texts
Toggle Sample texts subsection
5.1Ormulum, 12th century
5.2Epitaph of John the smyth, died 1371
5.3Wycliffe's Bible, 1384
5.4Chaucer, 1390s
5.5Gower, 1390
6See also
7References
8External links
Toggle the table of contents
Middle English
62 languages
Afrikaans?nglisc???????Aragon?sAsturianu????????????????????????BrezhonegCatal??e?tinaCymraegDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικ?Espa?olEsperantoEuskara?????Fran?aisFryskGaeilgeGalego?????????HrvatskiIdoBahasa Indonesia?slenskaItaliano????????????????LatinaLimburgs??????????Bahasa MelayuNederlands???Norsk bokm?lNorsk nynorskOccitanPolskiPortugu?sRom?n????????ScotsSimple English????Sloven?inaSloven??inaSuomiSvenska???T?rk?e??????????????Ti?ng Vi?t??????
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
??Actions
?
ReadEditView history
??General
?
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLWikidata item
??Print/export
?
Download as PDFPrintable version
??In other projects
?
Wiktionary
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
English as spoken from c. 1100 to 1500
This article should specify the language of its non-English content, using {{lang}}, {{transliteration}} for transliterated languages, and {{IPA}} for phonetic transcriptions, with an appropriate ISO 639 code. Wikipedia's multilingual support templates may also be used. See why. (September 2020)
Middle EnglishEnglischEnglishInglisA page from Geoffrey Chaucer's The Canterbury TalesRegionEngland (except for west Cornwall), some localities in the eastern fringe of Wales, south east Scotland and Scottish burghs, to some extent IrelandEradeveloped into Early Modern English, Scots, and Yola and Fingallian in Ireland by the 16th centuryLanguage familyIndo-European
GermanicWest GermanicNorth Sea GermanicAnglo-FrisianAnglicMiddle EnglishEarly formsProto-Indo-European
Proto-Germanic
Old English
Writing systemLatinLanguage codesISO 639-2enmISO 639-3enmISO 639-6mengGlottologmidd1317This article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Middle English (abbreviated to ME[1]) is a form of the English language that was spoken after the Norman Conquest of 1066, until the late 15th century. The English language underwent distinct variations and developments following the Old English period. Scholarly opinion varies, but Oxford University Press specifies the period when Middle English was spoken as being from 1100 to 1500.[2] This stage of the development of the English language roughly followed the High to the Late Middle Ages.
Middle English saw significant changes to its vocabulary, grammar, pronunciation, and orthography. Writing conventions during the Middle English period varied widely. Examples of writing from this period that have survived show extensive regional variation. The more standardized Old English literary variety broke down and writing in English became fragmented and localized and was, for the most part, being improvised.[2] By the end of the period (about 1470), and aided by the invention of the printing press by Johannes Gutenberg in 1439, a standard based on the London dialects (Chancery Standard) had become established. This largely formed the basis for Modern English spelling, although pronunciation has changed considerably since that time. Middle English was succeeded in England by Early Modern English, which lasted until about 1650. Scots developed concurrently from a variant of the Northumbrian dialect (prevalent in northern England and spoken in southeast Scotland).
During the Middle English period, many Old English grammatical features either became simplified or disappeared altogether. Noun, adjective, and verb inflections were simplified by the reduction (and eventual elimination) of most grammatical case distinctions. Middle English also saw considerable adoption of Norman vocabulary, especially in the areas of politics, law, the arts, and religion, as well as poetic and emotive diction. Conventional English vocabulary remained primarily Germanic in its sources, with Old Norse influences becoming more apparent. Significant changes in pronunciation took place, particularly involving long vowels and diphthongs, which in the later Middle English period began to undergo the Great Vowel Shift.
Little survives of early Middle English literature, due in part to Norman domination and the prestige that came with writing in French rather than English. During the 14th century, a new style of literature emerged with the works of writers including John Wycliffe and Geoffrey Chaucer, whose Canterbury Tales remains the most studied and read work of the period.[4]
History[edit]
Transition from Old English[edit]
The dialects of Middle English c.?1300
The transition from Late Old English to Early Middle English occurred at some point during the 12th century.
The influence of Old Norse aided the development of English from a synthetic language with relatively free word order to a more analytic language with a stricter word order.[2][5] Both Old English and Old Norse (as well as the descendants of the latter, Faroese and Icelandic) were synthetic languages with complicated inflections. The eagerness of Vikings in the Danelaw to communicate with their Anglo-Saxon neighbours resulted in the erosion of inflection in both languages.[5][6] Old Norse may have had a more profound impact on Middle and Modern English development than any other language.[7][8][9] Simeon Potter says, "No less far-reaching was the influence of Scandinavian upon the inflexional endings of English in hastening that wearing away and leveling of grammatical forms which gradually spread from north to south."[10]
Viking influence on Old English is most apparent in the more indispensable elements of the language. Pronouns, modals, comparatives, pronominal adverbs (like "hence" and "together"), conjunctions, and prepositions show the most marked Danish influence. The best evidence of Scandinavian influence appears in extensive word borrowings, yet no texts exist in either Scandinavia or Northern England from this period to give certain evidence of an influence on syntax. However, at least one scholarly study of this influence shows that Old English may have been replaced entirely by Norse, by virtue of the change from the Old English syntax to Norse syntax.[11] The effect of Old Norse on Old English was substantive, pervasive, and of a democratic character.[5][6] Like close cousins, Old Norse and Old English resembled each other, and with some words in common, they roughly understood each other;[6] in time, the inflections melted away and the analytic pattern emerged.[8][12] It is most "important to recognise that in many words the English and Scandinavian language differed chiefly in their inflectional elements. The body of the word was so nearly the same in the two languages that only the endings would put obstacles in the way of mutual understanding. In the mixed population that existed in the Danelaw, these endings must have led to much confusion, tending gradually to become obscured and finally lost." This blending of peoples and languages resulted in "simplifying English grammar".[5]
While the influence of Scandinavian languages was strongest in the dialects of the Danelaw region and Scotland, words in the spoken language emerged in the 10th and 11th centuries near the transition from Old to Middle English. Influence on the written language only appeared at the beginning of the 13th century, likely because of a scarcity of literary texts from an earlier date.[5]
The Norman Conquest of England in 1066 saw the replacement of the top levels of the English-speaking political and ecclesiastical hierarchies by Norman rulers who spoke a dialect of Old French known as Old Norman, which developed in England into Anglo-Norman. The use of Norman as the preferred language of literature and polite discourse fundamentally altered the role of Old English in education and administration, even though many Normans of this period were illiterate and depended on the clergy for written communication and record-keeping. A significant number of words of Norman origin began to appear in the English language alongside native English words of similar meaning, giving rise to such Modern English synonyms as pig/pork, chicken/poultry, calf/veal, cow/beef, sheep/mutton, wood/forest, house/mansion, worthy/valuable, bold/courageous, freedom/liberty, sight/vision, and eat/dine.
The role of Anglo-Norman as the language of government and law can be seen in the abundance of Modern English words for the mechanisms of government that are derived from Anglo-Norman: court, judge, jury, appeal, parliament. There are also many Norman-derived terms relating to the chivalric cultures that arose in the 12th century, an era of feudalism, seigneurialism, and crusading.
Words were often taken from Latin, usually through French transmission. This gave rise to various synonyms, including kingly (inherited from Old English), royal (from French, which inherited it from Vulgar Latin), and regal (from French, which borrowed it from classical Latin). Later French appropriations were derived from standard, rather than Norman, French. Examples of resultant cognate pairs include the words warden (from Norman) and guardian (from later French; both share a common ancestor loaned from Germanic).
The end of Anglo-Saxon rule did not result in immediate changes to the language. The general population would have spoken the same dialects as they had before the Conquest. Once the writing of Old English came to an end, Middle English had no standard language, only dialects that derived from the dialects of the same regions in the Anglo-Saxon period.
Early Middle English[edit]
Early Middle English (1100-1300)[13] has a largely Anglo-Saxon vocabulary (with many Norse borrowings in the northern parts of the country) but a greatly simplified inflectional system. The grammatical relations that were expressed in Old English by the dative and instrumental cases were replaced in Early Middle English with prepositional constructions. The Old English genitive -es survives in the -'s of the modern English possessive, but most of the other case endings disappeared in the Early Middle English period, including most of the roughly one dozen forms of the definite article ("the"). The dual personal pronouns (denoting exactly two) also disappeared from English during this period.
Gradually, the wealthy and the government Anglicised again, although Norman (and subsequently French) remained the dominant language of literature and law until the 14th century, even after the loss of the majority of the continental possessions of the English monarchy. The loss of case endings was part of a general trend from inflections to fixed word order that also occurred in other Germanic languages (though more slowly and to a lesser extent), and therefore, it cannot be attributed simply to the influence of French-speaking sections of the population: English did, after all, remain the vernacular. It is also argued[14] that Norse immigrants to England had a great impact on the loss of inflectional endings in Middle English. One argument is that, although Norse and English speakers were somewhat comprehensible to each other due to similar morphology, the Norse speakers' inability to reproduce the ending sounds of English words influenced Middle English's loss of inflectional endings.
Important texts for the reconstruction of the evolution of Middle English out of Old English are the Peterborough Chronicle, which continued to be compiled up to 1154; the Ormulum, a biblical commentary probably composed in Lincolnshire in the second half of the 12th century, incorporating a unique phonetic spelling system; and the Ancrene Wisse and the Katherine Group, religious texts written for anchoresses, apparently in the West Midlands in the early 13th century.[15] The language found in the last two works is sometimes called the AB language.
More literary sources of the 12th and 13th centuries include Layamon's Brut and The Owl and the Nightingale.
Some scholars[16] have defined "Early Middle English" as encompassing English texts up to 1350. This longer time frame would extend the corpus to include many Middle English Romances (especially those of the Auchinleck manuscript c.?1330).
14th century[edit]
From around the early 14th century, there was significant migration into London, particularly from the counties of the East Midlands, and a new prestige London dialect began to develop, based chiefly on the speech of the East Midlands but also influenced by that of other regions.[17] The writing of this period, however, continues to reflect a variety of regional forms of English. The Ayenbite of Inwyt, a translation of a French confessional prose work, completed in 1340, is written in a Kentish dialect. The best known writer of Middle English, Geoffrey Chaucer, wrote in the second half of the 14th century in the emerging London dialect, although he also portrays some of his characters as speaking in northern dialects, as in the "Reeve's Tale".
In the English-speaking areas of lowland Scotland, an independent standard was developing, based on the Northumbrian dialect. This would develop into what came to be known as the Scots language.
A large number of terms for abstract concepts were adopted directly from scholastic philosophical Latin (rather than via French). Examples are "absolute", "act", "demonstration", and "probable".[18]
Late Middle English[edit]
The Chancery Standard of written English emerged c.?1430 in official documents that, since the Norman Conquest, had normally been written in French.[17] Like Chaucer's work, this new standard was based on the East Midlands-influenced speech of London. Clerks using this standard were usually familiar with French and Latin, influencing the forms they chose. The Chancery Standard, which was adopted slowly, was used in England by bureaucrats for most official purposes, excluding those of the Church and legalities, which used Latin and Law French (and some Latin), respectively.
The Chancery Standard's influence on later forms of written English is disputed, but it did undoubtedly provide the core around which Early Modern English formed.[citation needed] Early Modern English emerged with the help of William Caxton's printing press, developed during the 1470s. The press stabilized English through a push towards standardization, led by Chancery Standard enthusiast and writer Richard Pynson.[19] Early Modern English began in the 1540s after the printing and wide distribution of the English Bible and Prayer Book, which made the new standard of English publicly recognizable and lasted until about 1650.
Phonology[edit]
Main article: Middle English phonology
The main changes between the Old English sound system and that of Middle English include:
Emergence of the voiced fricatives /v/, /?/, /z/ as separate phonemes, rather than mere allophones of the corresponding voiceless fricatives
Reduction of the Old English diphthongs to monophthongs and the emergence of new diphthongs due to vowel breaking in certain positions, change of Old English post-vocalic /j/, /w/ (sometimes resulting from the [?] allophone of /?/) to offglides, and borrowing from French
Merging of Old English /?/ and /?/ into a single vowel /a/
Raising of the long vowel /??/ to /??/
Rounding of /??/ to /??/ in the southern dialects
Unrounding of the front rounded vowels in most dialects
Lengthening of vowels in open syllables (and in certain other positions). The resultant long vowels (and other preexisting long vowels) subsequently underwent changes of quality in the Great Vowel Shift, which began during the later Middle English period.
Loss of gemination (double consonants came to be pronounced as single ones)
Loss of weak final vowels (schwa, written ?e?). By Chaucer's time, this vowel was silent in normal speech, although it was normally pronounced in verse as the meter required (much as occurs in modern French). Also, nonfinal unstressed ?e? was dropped when adjacent to only a single consonant on either side if there was another short ?e? in an adjoining syllable. Thus, every began to be pronounced as evry, and palmeres as palmers.
The combination of the last three processes listed above led to the spelling conventions associated with silent ?e? and doubled consonants (see under Orthography, below).
Morphology[edit]
Nouns[edit]
Middle English retains only two distinct noun-ending patterns from the more complex system of inflection in Old English:
Middle English nouns
Nouns
Strong nouns
Weak nouns
Singular
Plural
Singular
Plural
Nominative
-(e)
-es
-e
-en
Accusative
-en
Genitive
-es[19]
-e(ne)[20]
Dative
-e
-e(s)
Nouns of the weak declension are primarily inherited from Old English n-stem nouns but also from ?-stem, w?-stem, and u-stem nouns,[citation needed] which did not inflect in the same way as n-stem nouns in Old English, but joined the weak declension in Middle English. Nouns of the strong declension are inherited from the other Old English noun stem classes.
Some nouns of the strong type have an -e in the nominative/accusative singular, like the weak declension, but otherwise strong endings. Often, these are the same nouns that had an -e in the nominative/accusative singular of Old English (they, in turn, were inherited from Proto-Germanic ja-stem and i-stem nouns).
The distinct dative case was lost in early Middle English. The genitive survived, however, but by the end of the Middle English period, only the strong -'s ending (variously spelt) was in use.[21] Some formerly feminine nouns, as well as some weak nouns, continued to make their genitive forms with -e or no ending (e.g., fole hoves, horses' hooves), and nouns of relationship ending in -er frequently have no genitive ending (e.g., fader bone, "father's bane").[22]
The strong -(e)s plural form has survived into Modern English. The weak -(e)n form is now rare and used only in oxen and as part of a double plural, in children and brethren. Some dialects still have forms such as eyen (for eyes), shoon (for shoes), hosen (for hose(s)), kine (for cows), and been (for bees).
Grammatical gender survived to a limited extent in early Middle English[22] before being replaced by natural gender in the course of the Middle English period. Grammatical gender was indicated by agreement of articles and pronouns (e.g., ?o ule. "the feminine owl") or using the pronoun he to refer to masculine nouns such as helm ("helmet"), or phrases such as scaft st?rcne (strong shaft), with the masculine accusative adjective ending -ne.[23]
Adjectives[edit]
Single-syllable adjectives added -e when modifying a noun in the plural and when used after the definite article (?e), after a demonstrative (?is, ?at), after a possessive pronoun (e.g., hir, our), or with a name or in a form of address. This derives from the Old English "weak" declension of adjectives.[24] This inflexion continued to be used in writing even after final -e had ceased to be pronounced.[25] In earlier texts, multisyllable adjectives also receive a final -e in these situations, but this occurs less regularly in later Middle English texts. Otherwise, adjectives have no ending and adjectives already ending in -e etymologically receive no ending as well.[25]
Earlier texts sometimes inflect adjectives for case as well. Layamon's Brut inflects adjectives for the masculine accusative, genitive, and dative, the feminine dative, and the plural genitive.[26] The Owl and the Nightingale adds a final -e to all adjectives not in the nominative, here only inflecting adjectives in the weak declension (as described above).[27]
Comparatives and superlatives were usually formed by adding -er and -est. Adjectives with long vowels sometimes shortened these vowels in the comparative and superlative (e.g., greet, great; gretter, greater).[27] Adjectives ending in -ly or -lich formed comparatives either with -lier, -liest or -loker, -lokest.[27] A few adjectives also displayed Germanic umlaut in their comparatives and superlatives, such as long, lenger.[27] Other irregular forms were mostly the same as in modern English.[27]
Pronouns[edit]
Middle English personal pronouns were mostly developed from those of Old English, with the exception of the third person plural, a borrowing from Old Norse (the original Old English form clashed with the third person singular and was eventually dropped). Also, the nominative form of the feminine third person singular was replaced by a form of the demonstrative that developed into sche (modern she), but the alternative heyr remained in some areas for a long time.
As with nouns, there was some inflectional simplification (the distinct Old English dual forms were lost), but pronouns, unlike nouns, retained distinct nominative and accusative forms. Third person pronouns also retained a distinction between accusative and dative forms, but that was gradually lost: The masculine hine was replaced by him south of the Thames by the early 14th century, and the neuter dative him was ousted by it in most dialects by the 15th.[28]
The following table shows some of the various Middle English pronouns. Many other variations are noted in Middle English sources because of differences in spellings and pronunciations at different times and in different dialects.[29]
Middle English personal pronouns
Personal pronouns
1st person
2nd person
3rd person
Singular
Plural
Singular
Plural
Singular
Plural
Masculine
Neuter
Feminine
Nominative
ic, ich, I
we
?eou, ?(o)u, tu
ye
he
hit
s(c)he(o)
he(o)/ ?ei
Accusative
mi
(o)us
?e
eow, eou, yow, gu, you
hine
heo, his, hi(r)e
his/ ?em
Dative
him
him
heo(m), ?o/ ?em
Possessive
min(en)
(o)ure, ures, ure(n)
?i, ti
eower, yower, gur, eour
his, hes
his
heo(re), hio, hire
he(o)re/ ?eir
Genitive
min, mire, minre
oures
?in, ?yn
youres
his
Reflexive
min one, mi selven
us self, ous-silve
?eself, ?i selven
you-self/ you-selve
him-selven
hit-sulve
heo-seolf
?am-selve/ ?em-selve
Verbs[edit]
As a general rule, the indicative first person singular of verbs in the present tense ended in -e (e.g., ich here, "I hear"), the second person singular in -(e)st (e.g., ?ou spekest, "thou speakest"), and the third person singular in -e? (e.g., he come?, "he cometh/he comes"). (? (the letter "thorn") is pronounced like the unvoiced th in "think", but under certain circumstances, it may be like the voiced th in "that"). The following table illustrates a typical conjugation pattern:[30][31]
Middle English verb inflection
Verbs inflection
Infinitive
Present
Past
Participle
Singular
Plural
Participle
Singular
Plural
1st person
2nd person
3rd person
1st person
2nd person
3rd person
Regular verbs
Strong
-en
-ende, -ynge
-e
-est
-e? (-es)
-en (-es, -e?)
i- -en
-
-e (-est)
-
-en
Weak
-ed
-ede
-edest
-ede
-eden
Irregular verbs
Been "be"
been
beende, beynge
am
art
is
aren
ibeen
was
wast
was
weren
be
bist
bi?
beth, been
were
Cunnen "can"
cunnen
cunnende, cunnynge
can
canst
can
cunnen
cunned, coud
coude, couthe
coudest, couthest
coude, couthe
couden, couthen
Don "do"
don
doende, doynge
do
dost
do?
do?, don
idon
didde
didst
didde
didden
Douen "be good for"
douen
douende, douynge
deigh
deight
deigh
douen
idought
dought
doughtest
dought
doughten
Durren "dare"
durren
durrende, durrynge
dar
darst
dar
durren
durst, dirst
durst
durstest
durst
dursten
Gon "go"
gon
goende, goynge
go
gost
go?
go?, gon
igon(gen)
wend, yede, yode
wendest, yedest, yodest
wende, yede, yode
wenden, yeden, yoden
Haven "have"
haven
havende, havynge
have
hast
ha?
haven
ihad
hadde
haddest
hadde
hadden
Moten "must"
-
-
mot
must
mot
moten
-
muste
mustest
muste
musten
Mowen "may"
mowen
mowende, mowynge
may
myghst
may
mowen
imought
mighte
mightest
mighte
mighten
Owen "owe, ought"
owen
owende, owynge
owe
owest
owe
owen
iowen
owed
ought
owed
ought
Schulen "should"
-
-
schal
schalt
schal
schulen
-
scholde
scholdest
scholde
scholde
?urven/?aren "need"
-
-
?arf
?arst
?arf
?urven, ?aren
-
?urft
?urst
?urft
?urften
Willen "want"
willen
willende, willynge
will
wilt
will
wollen
-
wolde
woldest
wolde
wolden
Witen "know"
witen
witende, witynge
woot
woost
woot
witen
iwiten
wiste
wistest
wiste
wisten
Plural forms vary strongly by dialect, with Southern dialects preserving the Old English -e?, Midland dialects showing -en from about 1200, and Northern forms using -es in the third person singular as well as the plural.[32]
The past tense of weak verbs was formed by adding an -ed(e), -d(e), or -t(e) ending. The past-tense forms, without their personal endings, also served as past participles with past-participle prefixes derived from Old English: i-, y-, and sometimes bi-.
Strong verbs, by contrast, formed their past tense by changing their stem vowel (e.g., binden became bound, a process called apophony), as in Modern English.
Orthography[edit]
With the discontinuation of the Late West Saxon standard used for the writing of Old English in the period prior to the Norman Conquest, Middle English came to be written in a wide variety of scribal forms, reflecting different regional dialects and orthographic conventions. Later in the Middle English period, however, and particularly with the development of the Chancery Standard in the 15th century, orthography became relatively standardised in a form based on the East Midlands-influenced speech of London. Spelling at the time was mostly quite regular (there was a fairly consistent correspondence between letters and sounds). The irregularity of present-day English orthography is largely due to pronunciation changes that have taken place over the Early Modern English and Modern English eras.
Middle English generally did not have silent letters. For example, knight was pronounced ['kni?t] (with both the ?k? and the ?gh? pronounced, the latter sounding as the ?ch? in German Knecht). The major exception was the silent ?e? - originally pronounced but lost in normal speech by Chaucer's time. This letter, however, came to indicate a lengthened - and later also modified - pronunciation of a preceding vowel. For example, in name, originally pronounced as two syllables, the /a/ in the first syllable (originally an open syllable) lengthened, the final weak vowel was later dropped, and the remaining long vowel was modified in the Great Vowel Shift (for these sound changes, see Phonology, above). The final ?e?, now silent, thus became the indicator of the longer and changed pronunciation of ?a?. In fact, vowels could have this lengthened and modified pronunciation in various positions, particularly before a single consonant letter and another vowel or before certain pairs of consonants.
A related convention involved the doubling of consonant letters to show that the preceding vowel was not to be lengthened. In some cases, the double consonant represented a sound that was (or had previously been) geminated (i.e., had genuinely been "doubled" and would thus have regularly blocked the lengthening of the preceding vowel). In other cases, by analogy, the consonant was written double merely to indicate the lack of lengthening.
Alphabet[edit]
The basic Old English Latin alphabet consisted of 20 standard letters plus four additional letters: ash ???, eth ???, thorn ???, and wynn ???. There was not yet a distinct j, v, or w, and Old English scribes did not generally use k, q, or z.
Ash was no longer required in Middle English, as the Old English vowel /?/ that it represented had merged into /a/. The symbol nonetheless came to be used as a ligature for the digraph ?ae? in many words of Greek or Latin origin, as did ??? for ?oe?.
Eth and thorn both represented /θ/ or its allophone /?/ in Old English. Eth fell out of use during the 13th century and was replaced by thorn. Thorn mostly fell out of use during the 14th century and was replaced by ?th?. Anachronistic usage of the scribal abbreviation  (?e, "the") has led to the modern mispronunciation of thorn as ?y? in this context; see ye olde.[33]
Wynn, which represented the phoneme /w/, was replaced by ?w? during the 13th century. Due to its similarity to the letter ?p?, it is mostly represented by ?w? in modern editions of Old and Middle English texts even when the manuscript has wynn.
Under Norman influence, the continental Carolingian minuscule replaced the insular script that had been used for Old English. However, because of the significant difference in appearance between the old insular g and the Carolingian g (modern g), the former continued in use as a separate letter, known as yogh, written ???. This was adopted for use to represent a variety of sounds: [?], [j], [d?], [x], [?], while the Carolingian g was normally used for [g]. Instances of yogh were eventually replaced by ?j? or ?y? and by ?gh? in words like night and laugh. In Middle Scots, yogh became indistinguishable from cursive z, and printers tended to use ?z? when yogh was not available in their fonts; this led to new spellings (often giving rise to new pronunciations), as in McKenzie, where the ?z? replaced a yogh, which had the pronunciation /j/.
Under continental influence, the letters ?k?, ?q?, and ?z?, which had not normally been used by Old English scribes, came to be commonly used in the writing of Middle English. Also, the newer Latin letter ?w? was introduced (replacing wynn). The distinct letter forms ?v? and ?u? came into use but were still used interchangeably; the same applies to ?j? and ?i?.[34] (For example, spellings such as wijf and paradijs for "wife" and "paradise" can be found in Middle English.)
The consonantal ?j?/?i? was sometimes used to transliterate the Hebrew letter yodh, representing the palatal approximant sound /j/ (and transliterated in Greek by iota and in Latin by ?i?); words like Jerusalem, Joseph, etc. would have originally followed the Latin pronunciation beginning with /j/, that is, the sound of ?y? in yes. In some words, however, notably from Old French, ?j?/?i? was used for the affricate consonant /d?/, as in joie (modern "joy"), used in Wycliffe's Bible.[35][36] This was similar to the geminate sound [dd?], which had been represented as ?cg? in Old English. By the time of Modern English, the sound came to be written as ?j?/?i? at the start of words (like "joy"), and usually as ?dg? elsewhere (as in "bridge"). It could also be written, mainly in French loanwords, as ?g?, with the adoption of the soft G convention (age, page, etc.)
Other symbols[edit]
Many scribal abbreviations were also used. It was common for the Lollards to abbreviate the name of Jesus (as in Latin manuscripts) to ihc. The letters ?n? and ?m? were often omitted and indicated by a macron above an adjacent letter, so for example, in could be written as ?. A thorn with a superscript ?t? or ?e? could be used for that and the; the thorn here resembled a ?Y?, giving rise to the ye of "Ye Olde". Various forms of the ampersand replaced the word and.
Numbers were still always written using Roman numerals, except for some rare occurrences of Arabic numerals during the 15th century.
Letter-to-sound correspondences[edit]
Although Middle English spelling was never fully standardised, the following table shows the pronunciations most usually represented by particular letters and digraphs towards the end of the Middle English period, using the notation given in the article on Middle English phonology.[37] As explained above, single vowel letters had alternative pronunciations depending on whether they were in a position where their sounds had been subject to lengthening. Long vowel pronunciations were in flux due to the beginnings of the Great Vowel Shift.
Symbol
Description and notes
a
/a/, or in lengthened positions /a?/, becoming [??] by about 1500. Sometimes /au/ before ?l? or nasals (see Late Middle English diphthongs).
ai, ay
/ai/ (alternatively denoted by /?i/; see vein-vain merger).
au, aw
/au/
b
/b/, but in later Middle English became silent in words ending -mb (while some words that never had a /b/ sound came to be spelt -mb by analogy; see reduction of /mb/).
c
/k/, but /s/ (earlier /ts/) before ?e?, ?i?, ?y? (see C and hard and soft C for details).
ch
/t?/
ck
/k/, replaced earlier ?kk? as the doubled form of ?k? (for the phenomenon of doubling, see above).
d
/d/
e
/e/, or in lengthened positions /e?/ or sometimes /??/ (see ee). For silent ?e?, see above.
ea
Rare, for /??/ (see ee).
ee
/e?/, becoming [i?] by about 1500; or /??/, becoming [e?] by about 1500. In Early Modern English the latter vowel came to be commonly written ?ea?. The two vowels later merged.
ei, ey
Sometimes the same as ?ai?; sometimes /??/ or /e?/ (see also fleece merger).
ew
Either /?u/ or /iu/ (see Late Middle English diphthongs; these later merged).
f
/f/
g
/?/, or /d?/ before ?e?, ?i?, ?y? (see ?g? for details). The ?g? in initial gn- was still pronounced.
gh
[?] or [x], post-vowel allophones of /h/ (this was formerly one of the uses of yogh). The ?gh? is often retained in Chancery spellings even though the sound was starting to be lost.
h
/h/ (except for the allophones for which ?gh? was used). Also used in several digraphs (?ch?, ?th?, etc.). In some French loanwords, such as horrible, the ?h? was silent.
i, j
As a vowel, /i/, or in lengthened positions /i?/, which had started to be diphthongised by about 1500. As a consonant, /d?/ ((corresponding to modern ?j?); see above).
ie
Used sometimes for /??/ (see ee).
k
/k/, used particularly in positions where ?c? would be softened. Also used in ?kn? at the start of words; here both consonants were still pronounced.
l
/l/
m
/m/
n
/n/, including its allophone [?] (before /k/, /?/).
o
/o/, or in lengthened positions /??/ or sometimes /o?/ (see oo). Sometimes /u/, as in sone (modern son); the ?o? spelling was often used rather than ?u? when adjacent to i, m, n, v, w for legibility, i.e. to avoid a succession of vertical strokes.[38]
oa
Rare, for /??/ (became commonly used in Early Modern English).
oi, oy
/?i/ or /ui/ (see Late Middle English diphthongs; these later merged).
oo
/o?/, becoming [u?] by about 1500; or /??/.
ou, ow
Either /u?/, which had started to be diphthongised by about 1500, or /?u/.
p
/p/
qu
/kw/
r
/r/
s
/s/, sometimes /z/ (formerly [z] was an allophone of /s/). Also appeared as ? (long s).
sch, sh
/?/
t
/t/
th
/θ/ or /?/ (which had previously been allophones of a single phoneme), replacing earlier eth and thorn, although thorn was still sometimes used.
u, v
Used interchangeably. As a consonant, /v/. As a vowel, /u/, or /iu/ in "lengthened" positions (although it had generally not gone through the same lengthening process as other vowels - see Development of /ju?/).
w
/w/ (replaced Old English wynn).
wh
/hw/ (see English ?wh?).
x
/ks/
y
As a consonant, /j/ (earlier this was one of the uses of yogh). Sometimes also /?/. As a vowel, the same as ?i?, where ?y? is often preferred beside letters with downstrokes.
z
/z/ (in Scotland sometimes used as a substitute for yogh; see above).
Sample texts[edit]
Main article: Middle English literature
Most of the following Modern English translations are poetic sense-for-sense translations, not word-for-word translations.
Ormulum, 12th century[edit]
Further information: Ormulum
This passage explains the background to the Nativity (3494-501):[39]
Forr?rihht anan se time comm?att ure Drihhtin wolldeben borenn i ?iss middell?rdforr all mannkinne nedehe ch?s himm sone kinnessmennall swillke summ he wolldeand wh?r he wollde borenn benhe ch?s all att hiss wille.
Forthwith when the time camethat our Lord wantedbe born in this earthfor all mankind sake,He chose kinsmen for Himself,all just as he wanted,and where He would be bornHe chose all at His will.
Epitaph of John the smyth, died 1371[edit]
Further information: Brightwell Baldwin
An epitaph from a monumental brass in an Oxfordshire parish church:[40][41]
Original text
Word-for-word translation into Modern English
Translation by Patricia Utechin[41]
man com & se how schal alle dede li: wen ?ow comes bad & barenoth hab ven ve awa? fare: All ?s werm?s ?t ve for care:-bot ?t ve do for god?s luf ve haue nothyng yare:hundyr ?is graue l?s John ?e sm?th god yif his soule heuen grit
Man, come and see how shall all dead lie: when thou comes bad and barenaught have we away fare: all is worms that we for care:-but that we do for God's love, we have nothing ready:under this grave lies John the smith, God give his soul heaven great
Man, come and see how all dead men shall lie: when that comes bad and bare,we have nothing when we away fare: all that we care for is worms:-except for that which we do for God's sake, we have nothing ready:under this grave lies John the smith, God give his soul heavenly peace
Wycliffe's Bible, 1384[edit]
From the Wycliffe's Bible, (1384):
Luke 8:1-3
First version
Second version
Translation
1And it was don aftirward, and Jhesu made iorney by citees and castelis, prechinge and euangelysinge ?e rewme of God, 2and twelue wi? him; and summe wymmen ?at weren heelid of wickide spiritis and syknessis, Marie, ?at is clepid Mawdeleyn, of whom seuene deuelis wenten 3 out, and Jone, ?e wyf of Chuse, procuratour of Eroude, and Susanne, and manye o?ere, whiche mynystriden to him of her riches.
1And it was don aftirward, and Jhesus made iourney bi citees and castels, prechynge and euangelisynge ?e rewme of 2God, and twelue wi? hym; and sum wymmen ?at weren heelid of wickid spiritis and sijknessis, Marie, ?at is clepid Maudeleyn, of whom seuene deuelis 3wenten out, and Joone, ?e wijf of Chuse, ?e procuratoure of Eroude, and Susanne, and many o?ir, ?at mynystriden to hym of her ritchesse.
1And it was done afterwards, that Jesus made a journey by cities and castles, preaching and evangelising the realm of 2God: and with him (the) Twelve; and some women that were healed of wicked spirits and sicknesses; Mary who is called Magdalene, from whom 3seven devils went out; and Joanna the wife of Chuza, the procurator of Herod; and Susanna, and many others, who ministered to Him out of her riches.
Chaucer, 1390s[edit]
The following is the very beginning of the General Prologue from The Canterbury Tales by Geoffrey Chaucer. The text was written in a dialect associated with London and spellings associated with the then-emergent Chancery Standard.
First 18 lines of the General Prologue
Original in Middle English
Word-for-word translation into Modern English[42]
Translation into Modern U.K. English prose[43]
Whan that Aprill, with his shoures soote
When [that] April with his showers sweet
When April with its sweet showers
The dro?te of March hath perced to the roote
The drought of March has pierced to the root
has drenched March's drought to the roots,
And bathed every veyne in swich licour,
And bathed every vein in such liquor,
filling every capillary with nourishing sap
Of which vertu engendred is the flour;
From which goodness is engendered the flower;
prompting the flowers to grow,
Whan Zephirus eek with his sweete breeth
When Zephyrus even with his sweet breath
and when Zephyrus with his sweet breath
Inspired hath in every holt and heeth
Inspired has in every holt and heath
has coaxed in every wood and dale, to sprout
The tendre croppes, and the yonge sonne
The tender crops; and the young sun
the tender plants, as the springtime sun
Hath in the Ram his halfe cours yronne,
Has in the Ram his half-course run,
passes halfway through the sign of Aries,
And smale foweles maken melodye,
And small birds make melodies,
and small birds that chirp melodies,
That slepen al the nyght with open ye
That sleep all night with open eyes
sleep all night with half-open eyes
(So priketh hem Nature in hir corages);
(So Nature prompts them in their courage);
their spirits thus aroused by Nature;
Thanne longen folk to goon on pilgrimages
Then folk long to go on pilgrimages.
it is at these times that people desire to go on pilgrimages
And palmeres for to seken straunge strondes
And pilgrims (palmers) [for] to seek new strands
and pilgrims (palmers) seek new shores
To ferne halwes, kowthe in sondry londes;
To far-off shrines (hallows), respected (couth, known) in sundry lands;
and distant shrines venerated in other places.
And specially from every shires ende
And specially from every shire's end
Particularly from every county
Of Engelond, to Caunterbury they wende,
Of England, to Canterbury they went,
from England, they go to Canterbury,
The hooly blisful martir for to seke
The holy blissful martyr [for] to seek,
in order to visit the holy blessed martyr,
That hem hath holpen, whan that they were seeke.
That has helped them, when [that] they were sick.
who has helped them when they were sick.
Gower, 1390[edit]
The following is the beginning of the Prologue from Confessio Amantis by John Gower.
Original in Middle English
Near word-for-word translation into Modern English:
Translation into Modern English: (by Richard Brodie)[44]
Of hem that written ous tofore
The bokes duelle, and we therfore
Ben tawht of that was write tho:
Forthi good is that we also
In oure tyme among ous hiere
Do wryte of newe som matiere,
Essampled of these olde wyse
So that it myhte in such a wyse,
Whan we ben dede and elleswhere,
Beleve to the worldes eere
In tyme comende after this.
Bot for men sein, and soth it is,
That who that al of wisdom writ
It dulleth ofte a mannes wit
To him that schal it aldai rede,
For thilke cause, if that ye rede,
I wolde go the middel weie
And wryte a bok betwen the tweie,
Somwhat of lust, somewhat of lore,
That of the lasse or of the more
Som man mai lyke of that I wryte:
Of them that wrote us before
The books dwell, and we therefore
Been taught of that was written then:
For it is good that we also
In our time among us here
Do write some new matter,
Exampled by these old ways
So that it might in such a way,
When we be dead and elsewhere,
Be left to the world's ear
In time coming after this.
But for men say, and so it is,
That who that all of wisdom writes
It dulls often a man's wit
To him that shall it every day read,
For that like cause, if that you read,
I would go the middle way
And write a book between the two,
Somewhat of lust, somewhat of lore,
That of the less or of the more
Some man may like of that I write:
Of those who wrote before our lives
Their precious legacy survives;
From what was written then, we learn,
And so it's well that we in turn,
In our allotted time on earth
Do write anew some things of worth,
Like those we from these sages cite,
So that such in like manner might,
When we have left this mortal sphere,
Remain for all the world to hear
In ages following our own.
But it is so that men are prone
To say that when one only reads
Of wisdom all day long, one breeds
A paucity of wit, and so
If you agree I'll choose to go
Along a kind of middle ground
Sometimes I'll write of things profound,
And sometimes for amusement's sake
A lighter path of pleasure take
So all can something pleasing find.
Translation in Modern English: (by J. Dow)
Of those who wrote before we were born, books survive,
So we are taught what was written by them when they were alive.
So it's good that we, in our times here on earth, write of new matters -
Following the example of our forefathers -
So that, in such a way, we may leave our knowledge to the world after we are dead and gone.
But it's said, and it is true, that if one only reads of wisdom all day long
It often dulls one's brains. So, if it's alright with you,
I'll take the middle route and write a book between the two -
Somewhat of amusement, and somewhat of fact.
In that way, somebody might, more or less, like that.
See also[edit]
Medulla Grammatice (collection of glossaries)
Middle English creole hypothesis
Middle English Dictionary
Middle English literature
A Linguistic Atlas of Early Middle English
References[edit]
^ Simon Horobin, Introduction to Middle English, Edinburgh 2016, s. 1.1.
^ a b c Horobin, Simon; Smith, Jeremy (2002). An Introduction to Middle English. Retrieved 2023-12-01.
^ Carlson, David. (2004). "The Chronology of Lydgate's Chaucer References". The Chaucer Review. 38 (3): 246-254. CiteSeerX?10.1.1.691.7778. doi:10.1353/cr.2004.0003.
^ The name "tales of Canterbury" appears within the surviving texts of Chaucer's work.[3]
^ a b c d e Baugh, Albert (1951). A History of the English Language. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul. pp.?110-130 (Danelaw), 131-132 (Normans).
^ a b c Jespersen, Otto (1919). Growth and Structure of the English Language. Leipzig, Germany: B. G. Teubner. pp.?58-82.
^ Crystal, David (1995). The Cambridge Encyclopedia of the English Language. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. pp.?32. ISBN?9780521401791.
^ a b McCrum, Robert (1987). The Story of English. London: Faber and Faber. pp.?70-71.
^ BBC (27 December 2014). "[BBC World News] BBC Documentary English Birth of a Language - 35:00 to 37:20". YouTube. BBC. Archived from the original on 31 January 2016. Retrieved 12 January 2016.
^ Potter, Simeon (1950). Our Language. Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England: Penguin. pp.?33.
^ Faarlund, Jan Terje, and Joseph E. Emonds. "English as North Germanic". Language Dynamics and Change 6.1 (2016): 1-17. https://doi.org/10.1163/22105832-00601002 Web.
^ Lohmeier, Charlene (28 October 2012). "121028 Charlene Lohmeier "Evolution of the English Language" - 23:40 - 25:00; 30:20 - 30:45; 45:00 - 46:00". YouTube. Dutch Lichliter. Retrieved 12 January 2016.
^ Fuster-M?rquez, Miguel; Calvo Garc?a de Leonardo, Juan Jos? (2011). A Practical Introduction to the History of English. [Val?ncia]: Universitat de Val?ncia. p.?21. ISBN?9788437083216. Retrieved 19 December 2017.
^ McWhorter, Our Magnificent Bastard Tongue, 2008, pp. 89-136.
^ Burchfield, Robert W. (1987). "Ormulum". In Strayer, Joseph R. (ed.). Dictionary of the Middle Ages. Vol.?9. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons. p.?280. ISBN?978-0-684-18275-9., p. 280
^ "Making Early Middle English: About the Conference". hcmc.uvic.ca.
^ a b Wright, L. (2012). "About the evolution of Standard English". Studies in English Language and Literature. Routledge. p.?99ff. ISBN?978-1138006935.
^ Franklin, James (1983). "Mental furniture from the philosophers" (PDF). Et Cetera. 40: 177-191. Retrieved 29 June 2021.
^ a b cf. 'Sawles Warde' (The protection of the soul)
'^ cf. 'Ancrene Wisse' (The Anchoresses Guide)
^ Fischer, O., van Kemenade, A., Koopman, W., van der Wurff, W., The Syntax of Early English, CUP 2000, p. 72.
^ a b Burrow & Turville-Petre 2005, p.?23
^ Burrow & Turville-Petre 2005, p.?38
^ Burrow & Turville-Petre 2005, pp.?27-28
^ a b Burrow & Turville-Petre 2005, p.?28
^ Burrow & Turville-Petre 2005, pp.?28-29
^ a b c d e Burrow & Turville-Petre 2005, p.?29
^ Fulk, R.D., An Introduction to Middle English, Broadview Press, 2012, p. 65.
^ See Stratmann, Francis Henry (1891). A Middle-English dictionary. London: Oxford University Press. OL?7114246M. and Mayhew, AL; Skeat, Walter W (1888). A Concise Dictionary of Middle English from A.D. 1150 to 1580. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
^ Booth, David (1831). The Principles of English Composition. Cochrane and Pickersgill.
^ Horobin, Simon (9 September 2016). Introduction to Middle English. Edinburgh University Press. ISBN?9781474408462.
^ Ward, AW; Waller, AR (1907-21). "The Cambridge History of English and American Literature". Bartleby. Retrieved Oct 4, 2011.
^ Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary, ye[2] retrieved February 1, 2009
^ Salmon, V., (in) Lass, R. (ed.), The Cambridge History of the English Language, Vol. III, CUP 2000, p. 39.
^ "J", Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989)
^ "J" and "jay", Merriam-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (1993)
^ For certain details, see "Chancery Standard spelling" in Upward, C., Davidson, G., The History of English Spelling, Wiley 2011.
^ Algeo, J., Butcher, C., The Origins and Development of the English Language, Cengage Learning 2013, p. 128.
^ Holt, Robert, ed. (1878). The Ormulum: with the notes and glossary of Dr R. M. White. Two vols. Oxford: Clarendon Press. Internet Archive: Volume 1; Volume 2.
^ Bertram, Jerome (2003). "Medieval Inscriptions in Oxfordshire" (PDF). Oxoniensia. LXVVIII: 30. ISSN?0308-5562.
^ a b Utechin, Patricia (1990) [1980]. Epitaphs from Oxfordshire (2nd?ed.). Oxford: Robert Dugdale. p.?39. ISBN?978-0-946976-04-1.
^ This Wikipedia translation closely mirrors the translation found here: Canterbury Tales (selected). Translated by Vincent Foster Hopper (revised?ed.). Barron's Educational Series. 1970. p.?2. ISBN?9780812000399. when april, with his.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: others (link)
^ Sweet, Henry (d. 1912) (2005). First Middle English Primer (updated). Evolution Publishing: Bristol, Pennsylvania. ISBN?978-1-889758-70-1.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link)
^ Brodie, Richard (2005). "John Gower's 'Confessio Amantis' Modern English Version". Prologue. Retrieved March 15, 2012.
Brunner, Karl (1962) Abriss der mittelenglischen Grammatik; 5. Auflage. T?bingen: M. Niemeyer (1st ed. Halle (Saale): M. Niemeyer, 1938)
Brunner, Karl (1963) An Outline of Middle English Grammar; translated by Grahame Johnston. Oxford: Blackwell
Burrow, J. A.; Turville-Petre, Thorlac (2005). A Book of Middle English (3?ed.). Blackwell.
Mustanoja, Tauno (1960) "A Middle English Syntax. 1. Parts of Speech". Helsinki?: Soci?t? n?ophilologique.
External links[edit]
Wikisource has several original texts related to
Middle English works.
A. L. Mayhew and Walter William Skeat. A Concise Dictionary of Middle English from A.D. 1150 to 1580
Middle English Glossary (archived 22 February 2012)
Oliver Farrar Emerson, ed. (1915). A Middle English Reader. Macmillan - via Internet Archive. With grammatical introduction, notes, and glossary.
Middle English encyclopedia on Miraheze
vteHistory of English
Proto-Indo-European
Proto-Germanic
Proto-West-Germanic
Anglo-Frisian languages
Old English
Kentish
Mercian
Northumbrian
West Saxon
Anglo-Norman language
Middle English
Early Modern English
Modern English
Phonological historyVowels
A
Changes before historic /l/
Changes before historic /r/
Close back vowels
Close front vowels
Diphthongs
Great Vowel Shift
Open back vowels
Trisyllabic laxing
Consonants
Clusters
Flapping
H-dropping
L-vocalization
Ng
Rhoticity
T-glottalization
Th
fronting
stopping
Wh
vteGermanic languagesAccording to contemporary philologyWestAnglo-FrisianAnglic
English
dialects
Old English
Middle English
Modern English
Early Modern English
Irish Anglo-Norman
Fingallian
Yola
Scots
Early Scots
Middle Scots
FrisianHistorical forms
Old Frisian
Middle Frisian
East Frisian
Ems
Saterland Frisian
Weser
Wangerooge Frisian
Wursten Frisian
North Frisian
Insular
Eiderstedt
F?hr-Amrum
F?hr
Amrum
Heligolandic
Sylt
Mainland
B?kingharde
Mooring
Halligen
Goesharde
Northern
Central
Southern
Karrharde
Strand
Wiedingharde
West Frisian
Hindeloopen
Schiermonnikoog
Westlauwers-Terschellings
Mainland West Frisian
Clay Frisian
Wood Frisian
Westereendersk
Terschelling
Low GermanHistorical forms
Old Saxon
Middle Low German
West Low German
Dutch Low Saxon
Stellingwarfs
Tweants
Gronings
Dr?ents
Gelders-Overijssels
Achterhooks
Sallaans
Urkers
Veluws
Northern Low Saxon
East Frisian Low Saxon
Eastphalian
Westphalian
East Low German
Mecklenburgisch-Vorpommersch
Brandenburgisch
Central Pomeranian
East Pomeranian
Low Prussian
Plautdietsch / Mennonite Low German
Low FranconianHistorical forms
Frankish
Old Dutch
Middle Dutch
Standard variants
Dutch
Afrikaans (Kaaps)
West Low Franconian
Central Dutch
Hollandic
South Guelderish
West Flemish
French Flemish
Zeelandic
East Flemish
Brabantian
Surinamese Dutch
Jersey Dutch
Mohawk Dutch
Stadsfries/Bildts/Amelands/Midslands
East Low Franconian
Limburgish
Southeast Limburgish
Cover groups
Meuse-Rhenish
High GermanHistorical forms
Old High German
Middle High German
New High German
Early New High German
Standard German
German Standard German
Austrian Standard German
Swiss Standard German
Non-standard variants and creoles
Namibian German
Namibian Black German
Berlinerisch
Unserdeutsch
Barossa German
Rotwelsch
Lotegorisch
Yenish
Yiddish
Eastern
Western
Scots Yiddish
Klezmer-loshn
Lachoudisch
Central GermanWest Central German
Central Franconian
Ripuarian
Colognian
Moselle Franconian
Luxembourgish
Transylvanian Saxon
Hunsr?ckisch
Hunsrik
Rhine Franconian
Lorraine Franconian
Palatine
Volga German
Pennsylvania Dutch
Hessian
Central Hessian
Amana German
East Central German
Thuringian
Upper Saxon
Erzgebirgisch
Lusatian
Silesian German
High Prussian
Wymysorys
Halcnovian
Upper German
Alemannic in the broad sense
Low Alemannic
Alsatian
Coloniero
High Alemannic
Swiss German
Highest Alemannic
Walser German
Swabian
Bavarian
Northern Bavarian
Central Bavarian
Viennese German
Southern Bavarian
South Tyrolean
Cimbrian
M?cheno
Hutterite German
South Franconian
East Franconian
Vogtlandian
Langobardic
North and EastNorthHistorical forms
Proto-Norse
Old Norse
Old West Norse
Old East Norse
Old Gutnish
West
Norwegian
Bergensk
Kebabnorsk
Sognam?l
Tr?ndersk
Valdris
Vestlandsk
Vikv?rsk
Bokm?l (written)
Nynorsk (written)
Old Norwegian
Middle Norwegian
Faroese
Icelandic
Old Icelandic
Middle Icelandic
Greenlandic Norse
Norn
East
Swedish
Swedish dialects
Danish
Danish dialects
Insular Danish
Jutlandic
South Jutlandic
East Danish
Bornholmsk
Scanian
Southern Schleswig Danish
G?tudanskt
Perkerdansk
Old Danish
Middle Danish
Dalecarlian
Elfdalian
Gutnish
Mainland Gutnish
F?r? Gutnish
East
Gothic (Crimean Gothic)
Burgundian
Vandalic
PhilologyLanguage subgroups
North
East
West
Elbe (Irminonic)
Weser-Rhine (Istvaeonic)
North Sea (Ingvaeonic)
Northwest
Gotho-Nordic
South
Reconstructed
Proto-Germanic
Proto-Germanic grammar
Germanic parent language
Ancient Belgian language
Diachronic features
Grimm's law
Verner's law
Holtzmann's law
Sievers's law
Kluge's law
Germanic substrate hypothesis
West Germanic gemination
High German consonant shift
Germanic a-mutation
Germanic umlaut
Germanic spirant law
Ingvaeonic nasal spirant law
Great Vowel Shift
Synchronic features
Germanic verb
Germanic strong verb
Germanic weak verb
Preterite-present verb
Grammatischer Wechsel
Indo-European ablaut
Italics indicate extinct languages
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
Authority control databases: National 
Germany
Israel
United States
Latvia
Japan
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Middle_English&oldid=1190587800"
Categories: Anglic languagesMedieval languagesHistory of the English languageMiddle EnglishLanguages attested from the 11th century11th-century establishments in EuropeLanguages extinct in the 15th century15th-century disestablishments in EuropeHidden categories: CS1: abbreviated year rangeCS1 maint: othersCS1 maint: numeric names: authors listArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataPages with non-English text lacking appropriate markup and no ISO hintPages with non-English text lacking appropriate markup from September 2020Use British English from May 2021Languages with ISO6 codeLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguage articles with unreferenced extinction dateArticles containing Old English (ca. 450-1100)-language textArticles containing Middle English (1100-1500)-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from June 2018Pages with plain IPAArticles with unsourced statements from April 2022Articles containing Mzieme Naga-language textPages with Middle English IPAArticles containing German-language textArticles containing Old French (842-ca. 1400)-language textArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with LNB identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 18 December 2023, at 19:10?(UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia? is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Toggle limited content width
