Squirrels. Squirrels. And depending on how you feel 
about them you may be thinking, yay, these lovely   cute little critters or you may be thinking 
of rats with fluffy tails. But however you feel   about them I'm gonna be talking about the maths of 
species conflict. There are two species of squirrel   in Britain: there's the red and the grey. And the 
grey have supplanted the red and pushed them out,   primarily up to Scotland, and some there's parts 
in in North Wales. Dominantly if you see a squirrel   in the UK it's going to be a grey squirrel.
So how do we understand that? Well we try and   write down interaction equations between the two 
squirrel populations. We're going to be looking at   the grey squirrel and the red squirrel population, 
and we're going to write down some equations that   tell us how they interact. Grey squirrel population 
changes with time, so t is going to be time, the red   population is going to be changing over time. Now 
we can include space in this and understand how   they were pushed further north and further north 
but generally we don't really need to we- if you're   considering an island we can just consider how 
that conflict occurs. So we'll we'll throw away   space for now and just consider an island of grey 
and red squirrels. And what we say is that the grey   squirrels undergo binary competition, as do the 
red squirrels. In fact, the equations I'm going   to write are going to be pretty damn similar. So 
all this says is that the population of squirrels   grows proportional to how many squirrels there are, 
but if there are too many squirrels they compete.  And that could be for resources, partners, homes,   nuts - can be here for anything. But there's some 
competition keeping their population finite. Same   with the red, exactly the same. But we're going 
to add in a new term and we're going to add in   alpha GR here and beta GR here. Minus alpha GR is 
the competition of the grey and the red for the   grey squirrels; beta GR is the competition for the 
grey and red squirrels for the red. It's how they   interact; so it's always going to be a negative 
effect, the competition is never going to help   the species, but the size of alpha and beta are 
going to be how good they are at competing. Now   that's a lot of maths, I fully understand that,
but one thing I love about mathematical biology   is that you get so far and so much information 
from drawing pictures. I- if you can- you know a   picture is worth a thousand words, and so if 
you can draw a picture that immediately shows   the answer to these equations you can convince 
parliament - policy makers - how to save the   red squirrel. So what we're going to do is we need 
to understand a little idea called a nullcline.   The nullclines in this are where the populations 
aren't changing, okay? So when we set these to zero   that's when the nullcline is. So we set this left 
hand side to zero, we have some conditions linking   the red and green- red and green? The red and grey 
which will give us some curves, and they are the   nullclines. So in this first case here we have G 
equals zero when G is equal to zero, that will be   satisfied, or we could have 1 minus G minus alpha 
R equals zero. When Gt equals zero, that's the grey   squirrel nullcline. This one: if R is zero that's 
also satisfied, we could have 1 minus R minus B   G equals - and that's the red squirrel nullcline. Now 
what we can do is rearrange these and what we find   is - if we put grey as the dominant population - we 
can rearrange this to 1 minus alpha R and this   one would be then G is equal to 1 minus R over 
beta. Okay so they're just two lines. So I have four   nullclines, two for each population. One G equals 
zero and g equals 1 minus alpha R for the grey   squirrels; R equals zero and G equals 1 minus R 
over beta for the red squirrels. Lines: so G equals   zero is a fantastic line to draw, as is R equals 
zero, and these are just two lines connecting G   and R, G and R. Well there are different ways that 
these lines can cross. Understanding how they cross   predicts what will happen with these populations. 
You can do all this analytically, you   can work it out with numbers and show that 
all of this is concrete but when you can draw   pictures why would you do that? So I'm going to 
be looking at my population uh in terms of two   axes; we're going to have the red population along 
the x-axis and the grey squirrels along the y-axis.  You'll notice that these lines are negative so as 
I increase R g decreases. So for the grey squirrels   we have G equals zero, so this is one nullcline 
along there, GT equals zero; and the other line is   somewhere - don't really care, it's just a line. Now 
for the red squirrels: we have R equals zero, that's   up here, and then again another line. But does my 
line cross like that? Does it cross like that? Does   it cross there? Or does it cross like that? There 
are four different cases we have to consider and   they each tell us something different about what 
could happen. This one is the red squirrels along   there is zero, and so let's put the red nullcline 
underneath the grey squirrels and along that line   R dot is equal to zero. I'll quickly explain this: a 
dot can stand for Rt, just a simple way so I don't   have to keep writing t. And so along here we have G 
dot equals zero. Now we could we could draw lots of   more detail on here but from this setup of the 
nullclines the G is dominating the dynamics. And   the other thing we can say is, where is the system 
going to go? I will pick a point in here and that   will be a setup of the system; the system under 
these equations will drive that trajectory to   a place where it will stop moving. Where could it 
go? Well if it stops moving then both the reds stop   moving in time and the greys stop moving in time. So 
wherever our red and our black line cross that's   a potential place where this trajectory could end 
up. Okay so there are three places it could end up,   it could end up at (0,0), that's the case when 
my red and grey populations are extinct. It could   end up here, that's where my great population 
is extinct and my red survive. It could end up   here, my red die out but my grey has survived. And 
in this setup of the nullclines it's actually   the grey that's going to dominate. So all of my 
trajectories are going to end up being pushed   towards this one. And the reason comes from this 
line being the furthest one out, it's dominating the   system, the grey squirrels are out-competing the 
red okay. And that's why this line is furthest out.   Right so let's- that's one setup we could have of 
these nullclines. The the grey line does not have   to be the furthest one out, because the red line is 
furthest out. So then guess what? The red squirrels   will dominate and they will head to the steady 
state. Why don't we ever stop at (0,0)? Because   there's a positive population force, so no matter 
how small your population starts they will grow. So   what we say is this is an unstable equilibrium. If 
we have no squirrels to start with we never will,   but any small amount of squirrels will push this 
away. So it's really these two that we have to   worry about. So what will happen here is the 
population will tend to this one. It's because   the red nullcline is furthest out so the 
reds are dominating the system; they're   out- competing the greys. Now, okay it tells us that can 
happen, but that's obviously not the case that's   happening in the UK unfortunately. Again that's 
not the only two ways that this could happen.   What's another way that they could cross? Well 
we could have grey squirrel nullcline there and   the red squirrel nullcline there. This is one 
of the interesting cases, because again you'll   have the cases of: everything extinct, red extinct, 
grey extinct but now they're crossing at a new   point we didn't have previously. So we have 
a fourth solution. And now in this setup we   actually find that this state here is stable, it's 
attractive. Because there's no dominant pairing, we   don't kill off either of them, they can actually 
survive in harmony, so the trajectories will push   the populations here. Again, unfortunately not how 
the UK is working out. So what we can say, what's   happening in this case is alpha and beta in our 
equations initially are small, we could we can say   that. Because what's really happening is they're 
not really competing. We could take this to a limit   and say alpha and beta are zero, they're really 
not competing at all. They're living together   but they're each doing their own thing. And in 
that case what you find is they quite happily   live together, you have your nuts I'll have 
mine, and we'll all live happily families, small   competition. What happens when competition is big? 
Well this gives us our fourth case; so there's the   grey squirrel, and this is the red squirrel. Again 
we have that fourth one but we've swapped the  nullclines so we have there, there there and our fourth one.
Because we've swapped the nullclines we are now   in the case when the competition is very big. Both 
are trying their best and in this case the steady   state isn't stable anymore, it's unstable. So in 
this case we have the four points again that   we're going to head to but this time it's pushing 
us away from the state. So our population out here   will push us to the case where the red has died 
out; and if we start out here it will push to the   case where the grey is died out. And again if we 
start with a small batch of both we'll be sucked   in. Now which one will we choose all depends on 
where we start. So it's a very hard thing. You   need to know what your setup is to know 
will the red win out or will the grey win out.  Now of course in Britain unfortunately we are 
in this case here where the greys are easily   dominating the reds and the greys are winning 
out; but from that piece of mathematics we get to   see the whole idea of what biology can produce. 
We can produce cases where you're interacting   peacefully; you're interacting aggressively - you're 
out trying to out-compete each other. You're trying to   out-compete each other separately; that one of the 
cases that you're not even trying, you know your   the greys are really winning over the reds, here 
the reds are winning out over the greys. But through   that one equation we can see the entire
plane of all mathematical competitive.  (Brady: You said  we're now in this situation here. Is it possible it started in that situation there though?) Ok yeah, I mean the greys have always dominated the reds;
they're they're better hunters, they're bigger,   they're more aggressive. So- but the question 
is could we ever move it to say this? Or perhaps,   you know, if we want to eradicate the grey - I'm 
going to sit on the fence, I I love all animals - but do we want to eradicate the grey? 
Or do we want to allow them to live in harmony?   Well in that case that tells you exactly what 
you need to do, you need to change the dynamics,   you need to change their competitive abilities. 
Either you swap the nullclines around, you make   the reds more aggressive in some way; or you move 
it such that they don't compete. You give them two   different food sources okay? Greys love sausages 
and the reds love peanut butter. If you could find   something like that then they could both survive 
and be happy. But unfortunately just because we can   say how it can work doesn't mean it's possible to 
push us in this direction.
- (Tom some of this kind of) (feels like just kind of stuff that's quite obvious 
and intuitive and you've really complicated it and)   (formalised it with graphs and equations where I 
could have told you: the greys are better hunters)   (and therefore- Why do you need this mathematical 
formalism for things that seem intuitively obvious)  (when you think about them?)
- Yep no: a) it gives you a 
way of framing that argument. Because there are a   lot of arguments, and you could say greys are better 
hunters. Okay, well is that the reason? I haven't put   the fact that they're hunt- the better hunters 
in here; I've said that they compete better than the reds. That could be for mating reasons, it could 
be for roosts where they live. All I'm saying is   they're competing better. So you've specified one 
point, I've taken out a strategy. Another thing it   gives us is being able to see, well how can we- what 
is the strategy space that we're working in? You   again have said: okay the greys have won out, that's 
the case we're dealing in. That doesn't tell us how   we get to the greys and reds living together or the 
reds surviving. This comes down to a question about   the pandemic that's happening a lot: why do we need 
mathematical modellers? We can see how many people   are ill; we can see how many people are dying; 
we've got the data. That's true but it doesn't   tell us what the best route of getting out of this 
mess is. And that's what maths gives you, it gives a   rigorous framework of language to understand: I've
been in one situation, how do I get to another?   Thanks to Jane Street for supporting this 
episode. Now Jane Street's a top research-based   trading firm. It has offices all around the 
world including New York, London, Hong Kong,   Singapore, and Amsterdam. One of the reasons they 
support Numberphile - besides just loving math-based   videos - is Jane Street hopes a few of you may end 
up working with them. Go to their website, click   here on Join Jane Street to find out about all the 
great jobs, internships and opportunities they have   on offer. I visited one of their offices last week 
and trust me, this is a place you'd really enjoy   working. It was one of the most amazing workplaces 
I've ever seen. Go to janestreet.com, find out   what's going on. If you do end up working 
there, hey, tell them Numberphile sent you! ..okay and from this what you get is a relation 
between time of first interaction and that's   proportional to how far away you are from them -
space is being x and the rate of diffusion