We are in the Tokyo bathroom in northern 
California, near San Francisco, on Stanford   campus. Something that was discovered between my 
son who's just turned four, but he was two at the   time, and me two summers ago; we used to go to a 
swimming pool and he really liked it, I would of   course cuddle him and go into the pool and he was 
very very happy about the cold water and warm sun   and so on. And we took a little ball with us 
and we played with this but then the following   experiment was suggested by my son: he wanted me 
to push the ball which floats in water into the   water and then release. And of course it bobs 
up and then down and stays on on surface of the   water. And then he said, well release deeper.
And when I release a little deeper it pops up   clear above the water, it 
actually jumps into the air. And so we thought, well, if I go 
deeper and deeper it will jump higher   higher but watch what happens when I release 
really deep: it just wobbles up to the surface   and you know stays there, it doesn't clear the 
surface. So if you think of the height to which   it pops as a function of depending on how deep 
you release, it's not monotonic, it's not that,   you know, the shallower the higher or deeper the 
higher - actually there's a maximum around what   you might call the sweet spot or sweet interval.
If a good distance below the surface, well   it pops rather nicely. There has been some 
literature on this I discovered subsequently,   and people seem to talk about pop up, 
popping, which I have been doing but   I'd like to introduce a new terminology. I 
think that it should be called porpoising, as in the animal porpoise, because you 
know, those sea creatures; porpoises, dolphins, and seals are able to leap out of the 
water right. And of course these creatures have   very good muscles and hydrodynamic shapes and so 
forth, but it would be rather surprising if they   didn't take advantage of this mechanism where, 
for free, just by starting from a sweet depth,   you can leap into the air free of charge right 
just like that. So it would be a good thing that   porpoises are doing so that's why it should be 
called porpoising. And besides, then we can ask   questions like what's the purpose of porpoising 
and so on so. I'd like to make a suggestion as   to what's going on and which, you know, my son more of less said the same thing in his babbling language. And so when you dip very very shallowly of course 
there isn't really much you know buoyancy, and and   there isn't much time or distance over which the 
buoyancy acts, the floating force, acts so you know   it doesn't go very far and that's understandable 
and that's intuitive for everyone else. When you   sink them a little deeper, then the buoyancy - 
as I said the floating force - has sufficient time   and sufficient distance over which to act so it pulls 
it up and then you know there is enough momentum   where as it breaches the surface of the water to 
go up, so that's again believable. You know, and details   can be calculated by classical hydrodynamics 
and so on. But the mystery is, why if you   give it a really deep release it doesn't pop 
up? And I think the answer is already suggested   by what you're seeing: when I release from there 
do you see? It doesn't go straight up, it actually   moves sideways, it oscillates sideways. And it's, 
you know, wasting a lot of energy, a lot of motion   and when it comes to the surface that's where 
it stops. Yeah so it goes sideways yeah and   that wasn't really convincing but, yeah, that was 
maybe a little more convincing so I'm going to   let the water settle.
- (Brady: Yeah, it kind of has a-)
- Sideways motion, okay? (Yeah yeah okay, very nice.)
- All right okay. So, at this stage I'm going to take up the brown paper.  So this ping pong ball is moving forward like that 
okay? Now as it moves forward it has to get the   water around it out of the way, so what's going to 
happen? For example, here is a little blob of water, and then this water has to get around the ball so 
it rolls rolls rolls like that and then comes off.   So the result is that it sheds what is called a 
spinning pattern of water which is called a vortex   just behind like this. And then a little 
earlier you are shedding some vortex like that, and vortex like that, and so on and so on. As it 
goes up it starts shedding vortices, it's creating   some kind of vortical pattern, spinning pattern, around 
it. On this side and on this side in opposite ways,  and of course the picture is three-dimensional 
so it's shedding vortices all round and so forth. Now, this kind of spinning pattern destabilizes 
the ball and so when it sheds the vortex like this   it kind of pulls this sideways and when it sheds 
the vortex on this side sideways and so on; and it   is has been noticed that for some range of motion, 
speed, size, and density of the water and especially   viscosity, this shedding is in alternating 
patterns. So one side, the other side, one side-  so it starts oscillating. Whereas if you start 
from too shallow then this mechanism doesn't have   time to kick in, so it just goes straight up and 
then that's very very effective because you come   straight up and you pop straight up and 
porpoise straight up; whereas here if you start   too deep you go sideways and then by the time 
you breach, you reach the surface water, you don't   really get anywhere. So that's what's- what's going on.
- (Professor I imagine millions of these)  (are happening per second though, why aren't 
they sort of all cancelling each other out)   (and allowing the ball to go straight up?)
- That is- that is a very good question but the reason is, as I said,   for this range of motion- you know, if it's very 
very fast, very very slow, that's a different   story; but for this kind of daily motion of that 
size and magnitude and this shedding it turns out   happens in alternating fashion. So, you know, there 
is no cancellation because when it's shedding-   being being shed over here, the previous vortex 
is already far away and the previous one before   that is even further and so forth. So you go one 
side, the other side, one side, the other side; and   that's why it wobbles hither and thither. If everything 
was happening much much faster and everything-   and then you get something called turbulence, 
this is a huge mess of vortices that are kind of   clouded together and so forth, then you know all 
bets are off and you just get a messy motion. (And Professor, why does this mechanism stop the 
ball from leaping high? Is it because it's it's) (wasted its energy?)
- That's right so it's wasting a lot of energy behind and we shall come back   to that; but also, you know, because it goes sideways 
that's you know part of the energy that should be   moved- used to move upward and being wasted 
sideways and so it doesn't really have anything   left by the time it reaches the reach the surface. 
Okay, this is zero, above water, and it had some   strange maximum and then goes down. So the question 
was what is this maximum? Well we understood that   in fact what was going on is that somewhere 
here, and somewhere here, the motion of the movement of the ball was very different. So   here you just, you know, bobbed 
up and down. Here it kind of went hither and thither and wasted motion sideways 
and so it didn't go; but here it cleared the water   very nicely. By the way, another thing that 
we didn't really emphasize when we saw it is   that, in this case because it's kind of going 
sideways it also tends to splash quite a lot   of water and that's more wastage if you like in 
the in the motion. But anyway, so because of this   there's some kind of strange maximum. I would say 
that here, when there is this separation between   this region and this region, is about one diameter 
deep when you release; and here when there is some   loss that starts because of this oscillatory 
motion, ultimately because of the vortex shedding   as we explained, is maybe two or three diameters 
deep, yeah. So that's more or less the picture.   I'd like to show you the vortex patterns that are 
left behind or in the wake of the moving ball, but   in order to see that best you would like to have a 
shallower water so I'm going to let some water out. That's good, that's good, okay. The vortex pattern 
that is left behind in the wake of a moving object,   or they flow past and then you know in the wake 
that is formed, can be seen in the bathtub if   you have it at the suitable depth. So here you can 
move a finger across in your bath, or in this case   let's move a familiar ping pong ball. When I move it across,
do you see at the bottom of the bath you see some   shadows of those black spots? Lots of black 
spots on this side, on this side, and in some   kind of very alternating pattern, it's not so 
clean of course, but you can see it right? And   that's- those are the shadows of the vortices 
that are being left behind. And this pattern,   the alternating pattern of vertices that are being 
shed at all times, and which cause if you like   some sideways oscillation and so on - and and 
so on will come to come back to that later - was   discovered by a number of people but it's 
now known as von Kármán Vortex Street. And this is really a very beautiful pattern that 
arises behind some fluid motions in the wake. This pattern is used in rather clever, and in 
fact miraculous fashion, by swimming creatures   such as fish. So have you ever wondered why not 
only fish, but you know seals and dolphins, and   porpoises indeed that I mentioned before, have you 
ever wondered- I mean you have certainly been to   see some seal and so on and you know they don't 
seem to be doing anything, they just wiggle their   body a little bit and off they go right?
Whereas human champions, the best of the swimmers, have to do so much work and splash all over the 
place and then they don't go that fast do they? I mean you know, we can all outrun these people 
on the on the ground. So how come those creatures   just by wiggling their body goes so fast and so 
efficiently in terms of energy and everything?   That is the mystery that needs to be explained 
and this is how it works, to a good approximation.   So let's say that water is coming from front to 
back, or this creature is moving from back to front   like this like that; and let's say in the first 
instance that this is a submarine, so it's a   rigid body so no flexibility there, there's 
no animal mystery there. Well as I explained,   well in the two-dimensional model, what happens is 
that on this side the water has to roll along the   body like this. There is something called no-slip 
boundary condition which was noticed by Stokes in   the 19th century. Anyway so it rolls and rolls and 
rolls and then behind it, it leaves a vortex like   that. On the other side water rolls and rolls like 
this, so it's rolling in the opposite direction; and   then in the back it leaves a vortex like that. 
And so on, it keeps shedding vortices as we say. Okay so this is the pattern that is left behind of 
vortices which we saw some rough representation of   in our experiment in the bathtub. Remember this is 
completely rigid. Now what's going on? You can see   that this vortex for example is kind of swirling 
and stirring the water around it, so it induces   a flow like that around it which then pushes 
those things forward right? Because it's kind of   inducing the flow like this. And on the other side,
this vortex for example is spinning like that   and induces a flow- circular flow like that, and it 
pushes those vortices forward as well. So this row of vortices and this row of vortices are helping each 
other and they're pushing each other forward.   (Almost back to where they came from?)
- What they came from exactly. And that's a forward momentum yeah   of this vortex train- street, but this creature or 
this submarine then is leaving a forward momentum   in the wake. Well that's, you know, for the momentum 
that it really wanted to keep for itself to keep   move forward that it has wasted by leaving it 
in the wake, so that's why it suffers. (You're saying this is a bad thing?)
- That's right, because it's all left behind. You know, this submarine wants   to keep all the forward momentum to itself but 
instead it's giving the forward momentum in the   wake to the fluid that it is leaving behind. So you 
know, you are ejecting this forward momentum just if like, well I don't want to have any important 
analogy, but anyway so you know it's all wasted.  So that's why it suffers and that's why it 
feels that, well short of forward momentum, he feels a sort of backward force if you like, and 
that's called a drag, you know, it can't really move   forward so easily. That was a rigid submarine, 
which of course has to have huge motors   and so on in order to keep moving forward and 
it has to expend a lot of energy. Now what does a   fish do? Or one of those creatures do? It does more or 
less the same thing because of course the motion   of the fluid is exactly the same, water keeps 
rotating like this, rolling on the surface of the   fish or this swimming creature like that is the 
same. But a swimming creature is flexible so it   flexes its body like that, yeah? And it's the flapping
motion of the tail. And by doing so it guides this   vortex on this side and then flicks it and leaves 
it on this side. And the vortex that started growing as   the fluid kept rolling on this side, again you 
know after that it flexes its tail like that,  and flick it leaves on this side. So it keeps 
leaving this kind of vortices on this side and   this kind of vortices on this side, okay. And there, 
there, and there. It may not be so apparent but this   row used to be over here, in the case of submarine, 
and this row used to be over here in the case of   submarine. But what the fish did by flicking its 
tail and placing the vortex on the other side   was to exchange those two rows with respect 
to submarine, okay. With what consequence? Well   this vortex again you know induces circular motion 
like that; but look in this case, it's pushing   the partner vortices backward yeah? And this 
side is inducing a circular motion and it's   pushing the circular and the partner vortices 
backward. In other words, those two rows of vortices   um of the vortex street are actually helping each 
other to push backward, that's backward momentum.   Whereas in the case of a submarine we had a forward 
momentum that was left behind. Well this creature   then, the fish, is leaving backward momentum in the 
wake. Well that's exactly like a jet engine. You   see, you're ejecting something behind which 
is going that way very fast by recoil, you   go forward. So it gains forward momentum, yeah, 
because it's leaving a lot of backward momentum,   well that helps and that's how it can go so 
fast. Because it just exchanged those rows of   vortices that it's leaving behind, thanks to a 
judicious flexibility of deflection of its tail. This episode was brought to you by MEL Science, 
creator of these fantastic subscription boxes full   of hands-on learning and experiments. Appropriately 
for today's video, this one's called Artificial Sea. Everything you need's in the box, instructions are 
easy to follow, and it's super safe. Now I'll be   honest, I think I mucked up, I may have put a little 
bit too much copper sulfate in here, but the result   was kind of fascinating. These blue-green bulbous 
things constantly growing and then collapsing... And isn't that what experiments are 
all about? Learning, investigating,  maybe making a few mistakes? Anyway, 
this is what it should have looked like.  Personally I think a subscription to these would 
be a great present for the learners in your life.   There are so many great boxes and products 
available: check it all out on the MEL Science   website. And by the way - there's a 60% discount 
for the first month of any subscription if you   use the promo code Numberphile60. The code, the 
link, all the details are in the video description. ...so that's version number two. What's going to 
happen if I pull the ends of the paper? Well   you know, somebody not observant might 
say, oh what's the difference in here   here? Well probably it doesn't matter,
well, but you remember that version   number one ended up having the rubber 
band hanging from the paper ribbon...