this is a game that frogs play whenever they are not being witnessed by humans and the way that they play it you can imagine that these are lily pads, and there's five frogs. five frogs that want to have a party on the same lily pad. One frog jumps one space. Two frogs jump two spaces. one frog jumps one space. got four frogs on here so 4 frogs  jump four spaces these. These frogs are happy because they are celebrating a party on their own lily pad. now it's your job you have to figure out: is this possible? the day after whenever a new frog comes to town. Is  this possible? one extra rule: you cannot jump frogs on to an empty lily pad. so I could jump one frog there, i can jump one frog here I could jump one frog here and two frogs I could jump here. 4 frogs must jump 4 spaces. 1,2,3,4, Oh, this is an empty lily pad so you can't do that. so this is an example of a failure. Can we manage to do this with six frogs and six lily pads? Can we manage to do this with N frogs and N lily pads? so this is a puzzle that doesn't have an obvious answer before we solve six I want you to imagine you've only got 2 lily pads and 2 frogs. well that's easy to solve so now we're going to use that i'm going to split this into two and first of all going to solve for the left and i'm going to solve the right in exactly the same way. this looks suspiciously similar to having two frogs and two lily pads. here we have three frogs and three frogs separated by three. so this can be solved in exactly the same way as 2 frogs can. be solved in 2 lily pads.   so now that we've solved six, is it easy to solve 36? of course it is because we can design 36 we can solve for this six in the same way you can solve for this six, this six, this six, this six. we've solved for all the sixes. we now have six stacks of six all separated by six. then that's just kind of like a giant six. doesn't just give us a solution for even numbers. it also gives the solutions for numbers like 9. 3 x 3 because you could imagine with nine, with nine we solve like this... okay? now you can see we've really got a big version of just the three. so we do the same thing. we solved it. can we solve for prime numbers? can we solve for prime numbers? so the answer is yes and let me show you this is another ...you should, you should take time and try to solve for prime numbers but let's set let's extend this we'll go to 11 here. i'm going to show you how to do it and you'll immediately see that you could do all integers two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven. Solved! that will work for everything. To make problem a little bit more interesting now that we solve for every integer, now what we're going to do is we're going to say well one of these frogs is actually the Queen frog. and the Queen frog must always be on the top of any pile, so you can think: can you solve for that? Now for example you could go to here but then you couldn't move this on the top of the Queen you could move to here. this then becomes a challenge is this always possible and visit isn't always possible no matter where the queen is? If the Queen starts over here, is this possible? so you should take a moment and you should figure out is this possible or impossible? what I'm going to try to do is I'm going to use this same technique of back and forth and back and forth and back and forth and and i'm going to end up here. right, so let me do that first so what do i need to do now? i need to somehow end up on this place here and that that is doable by the same technique i go back and forth i'm going to start here and I'll go back and forth. and just by choosing correctly, i can make sure that this stack is going to end up on top so this is also solvable for all integers. A little bit less obvious. now let's remove the Queen and give instead lazy told you where would you like the lady told to be in third position that ok so the lazy told doesn't move so we have got to have the party on this lily pad is this possible so take a second try to figure out it's just always going to be possible or not and the answer is yes this is always going to be possible in the same with the same system so here I'm going to choose this one I'm going to move over here and go on top here i'm going to choose something in the middle and you just have to figure out what I wanted to jump this way and yes so I jumped this way and we've solved it this is solvable for all integers you might want to experiment with one lazy toad and one Queen that have to be on top and everything else wrong and see if that is possible sometimes it's possible sometimes you know now i'm going to share a problem that i don't know the answer to and this one we have the frogs and unfortunately two of the lilypad are waterlogged the end one second from the end on either side so know frogs can go on here i do not know if this is ever solvable for any number of lily pads I've never been able to solve a single one of these so that's that's my open problem here will show your failure so I need to get this frog somehow because it can't move here so i need to go over and grab it so let me grab it by this technique I'll go to that gives three now I come over here that's four 1234 I can come over and rescue this one that's five one two three four and I UCI i'm stuck here I've got this one by itself not what can I do well I can at least get this one but then that's 12345 I can't move this back how that goes under the waterlogged lilypad I can't move this stack 123 and I can't move this sec so I'm stuck here so I've never been able to solve any of these for any length but it's not obvious at all of this can't be solved for some length of lily pads just the 11 away from the end on each side being waterlogged not low enough so what we do we do we could split this into an ache here and 12 we could do that and so now our score is 12-4 is equal to 8