What if we could have a screen the size of the entire wall? That looks amazing. Okay, okay. Oh, . Last time we were here at the LAN Gaming Center slash badminton hall, we tried to make the biggest possible gaming display on this 190-foot white wall. But we ran into a limitation. Our weak sauce consumer projector with its fixed lens would have me traveling through the wall in order to get the image big enough. Not to mention, it's pretty dim. So there was only one thing to do. We brought in the big guns. So with a little help from our friends at Clark's Audio Visual, we are going to be building the largest possible gaming display. I'm talking something worthy of Weird Al Yankovic. Over 2,000 inches diagonally, from all the way over there to the very far end. It's gonna be a little tricky. I wanna quickly shout out CoPilot who sponsored this video, more on those guys later. But first, let's take a look at the beast. This is the Epson Pro-L 1505UH, a commercial grade projector that makes the LS 12000 look like an absolute toy. Fundamentally, they're based on very similar technology. It uses, oh my God. Hey Arty, can I get a hand? Okay, it uses a three chip laser projection system, giving it amazing contrast and in this one's case, spectacular brightness and color performance. This thing is rated to output 12,000 lumens and that is in color. You can kind of cheat your peak brightness rating if it's just white. But they didn't. It weighs over 50 pounds, but when you consider the
performance, it's actually not that much bigger than a home cinema projector, and it's got
some major benefits for an application like this. The biggest one is support for
interchangeable lenses. This right here is an Epson short throw monster that is able to achieve a 0.8
throw ratio, meaning that we could get a hundred foot wide image Being only 80 feet away from the wall. That, because there's another wall in the way, was incredibly important for our application because otherwise we'd have to have this thing somewhere outside of the building over there shining through a window. Uh what's one of these worth if I damage it? About three thousand. Actually you know, in the world of cinema lenses, that's not bad. I mean I'm not going to but just in case. Nice! The rest of them pretty much boil down to ease of deployment since companies like Clark's operate out of travel cases like these they roll up to a show or an event, they unpack in a matter of hours, they expect everything to run perfectly and they need to pack it all the way again in a matter of hours. So at the front of this unit we've got what Epson calls their pixeline camera system this allows the unit assuming all of the projectors have it unfortunately we won't be using it today to take a picture of the wall compensate for any oddities or overlaps and help you align all of your projectors into a giant video wall pretty much automagically and coming around to the back oh look at those professional grade inputs I mean come on you can't have an HDMI cable just coming unplugged in the middle of a show unacceptable that's why we've got BNC and this particular unit has support for both Control 4 which is present on the LS12000 and Crestron which is a home automation system but realistically is so baller that it's the kind of thing that you would find at stadiums and houses of worship and things like that. But enough yik yak you guys want to see it in action right? To make the deployment a little bit simpler, well at least in some ways we grabbed a few of the scissor lifts that they happen to only have here on the construction site and We strapped our three projectors for the massive video wall that we're building to the railings Which I guess makes sense. The reason I have to move it is because in order for us to have an apples-to-apples comparison of brightness We're gonna have to put this a lot closer to the wall than the LS 12,000 because of the short throw lens You're gonna have to move back Adam He's back Adam, the less impressive superhero. Give that blue scissor lift a little kiss. Oh no, not quite, we're good. I felt like I moved a lot, but this is still enormous. We can zoom out a little bit, but Adam, you're gonna have to move really far away in order to get anywhere near the same size. Can we hit the lights? And that, my friends, is the difference between a 2,700 lumen projector, which is great for your home theater, you know, 120, 150 inch screen, and a 12,000 lumen display that, did I mention, consumes 1,700 watts, meaning each of these requires its own power circuit. What you're looking at right now is about, give or take, a 40 foot screen, and it still looks awesome. The consumer version looks like a toy in comparison. Do you want to compare white to white? That's white. That's... Now all I need is to fix my alignment, and a game controller. Oh my God. It looks like a giant TV. Wait, does this not support HDR? No? Do you see anything about HDR support on the site? I can't find anything with HDR. Well, we'll just have to try to enjoy it without HDR, I guess. What a downer. You know, I think I'd probably get over it. What's one of these worth? About $15,000. $15,000. I think we can use the consumer one. It'll just be smaller at the land. Wee! Man, that's sick. But if one's cool, then three must be better. There it is, guys. We're about to show you guys how we're doing it, but first we need to talk about our sponsor, CoPilot. Adam's on a little hike over there, so while he approaches, I'll talk about what it is. You get a fully-featured workout app with video instructions and exercise descriptions. You also get access to your own personal trainer because one of the hardest parts of sticking to your fitness plan is accountability. It is so easy to ignore an app notification and having a real person looking out for you can
make a huge difference. I was a bona fide gym rat during the pandemic and I struggled with getting back into the gym in the recent years but my co-pilot coach Nate has brought extra fun and variety to my workouts that make me want to get back into the gym and even helps me by adjusting my workouts for times when I'm traveling so I can still make progress even when I don't have access to my usual gym. The app allows me to sync my health data and my workout data from other apps to give me and my coach a fuller picture of my health and my progress. And the beauty is I get to think as much or as little about my workouts as I want. I can discuss changes with my programming with my coach or I can just show up pump iron and trust that my workout will be designed to help me achieve my goals. In fact there's evidence that people who have access to a personal trainer have improved training outcomes versus those that are going it alone. With a compatible smartwatch you can use motion tracking to analyze your sets, form, and pacing with live feedback. And this comes at a price that is all way, way lower than your typical personal trainer. And if you don't gel well with your coach, you can always switch to a new one and find somebody who fits your needs. And unlike many gyms, there's no hidden cancellation fees or desperate salespeople trying to get you to upgrade your membership. How long have you been using it? Uh, like three months now. Oh, cool. Okay. Yeah. So you can check out CoPilot at the link in the video description. Once you've got all three projectors in place, what is the first step in your process? Yeah, so the first thing we do is we get them all aligned by eyeball. So we just look at them and we use the lens shift built into the projectors to get them all looking roughly the same. Huh. I mean, these two look pretty darn good. You've done this before. Yeah, once or twice. With that out of the way, what can you tell me about the little black box that we've got all three of them linked into here? The black magic box is the Datapath FX4. It's a video wall controller. So basically... What you can do is take one input source, whether it's a laptop or a game console or whatever you want it to be, and split it amongst a bunch of different screens or projectors. And does this support the same kind of blending that we did with our commercial Quadro output that we used the last time we did something like this or better? It's a little bit better. Basically what it does is it offloads that from the PC. So you're taking that and you're putting it on a standalone piece of hardware. Got it. But latency? Latency is awesome. Really? Couple milliseconds at best. I guess we'll find out. I guess we will. The next thing we're doing is getting all of the projectors focused. Then it's time to put up the grid, a test pattern that helps them check their focus and check and refine the alignment between the three projectors. Oh my gosh, that's so cool! That's a couch for scale. Take that, Maxell ad. Do you see how small his TV was? I mean, look, if we used Weird Al's song, would he forgive us? I mean, he's a pretty chill guy. We made Frank's 2000 inch TV. Please don't sue us. It is so far beyond the edges of my peripheral vision. So where's the middle? But we're not ready to game yet. The next step is corner adjustment. So, Clark's has finished up this side and you can see actually man that is that is bang on. We've got a straight line right across the floor right into that corner straight up to the top and straight over there and now they're going to go projector by projector and try to align them with the first one. You can't imagine something like this. You can look at a big blank wall and you can kind of go that would be cool but oh my god. While these gentle folk finish aligning the last one I thought I'd take my TV for a walk. Just want to kind of see how long it takes to make it all the way from one edge to the other. Good gravy. I haven't even made it past one projector yet. We're going to get there though. Hey Adam, how's it going? Setting up the audio? What? It's great. Good stuff. You look comfortable. Oh, I'm great. Yeah, I love this inflatable couch. I'm on projector number two now. Almost at number three. Yep. I'm going to be there really soon. Oh man. I'm not gonna need a personal trainer after all. Sorry, sponsor. Okay, trying one. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. Behold, the world's widest start menu. The search still sucks. Okay, who did that? World record. That's not a world record. It's a Linus world record. Behold, the much smaller troubleshooting display. Just like that. And now we have our one, two, and three projectors. Okay. Oh, oh, that's something. Wait for it. Wait for it. Wait for it! Yes! Cease waiting! New plan. Forget the video wall controller. We're going back to NV Surround. The diagonal is 173 feet. Which... Wait, what? Yeah, it doesn't make any sense. It's only three feet longer than the width? Yeah, because it's such an acute diagonal. Even at only three feet? That's it? We've tried it on multiple different calculators. That's what it checks out. 32 feet tall, 170 feet wide. Did we let down Frank? That's 2,076 inches. Yeah! Frank still got it. Here we freaking go. Ho-pa-pa! Yeah! Let's go! Dan's got it. No, Dan, Dan, you do the honors. I don't think we've ever actually seen Dan game. Your pad, sir. Thank you. All right, Spider Solitaire. Oh, come on! Do we have sound? I don't know if this website has sound. Dan tried to change the volumes. Hold on, let me go, let me go tell you what it's at! Oh, it's working! Why am I even here then? Yeah, I think I can hear every bass note about six times I've been to some weird parties, but this is definitely the weirdest. I'm kidding. I haven't been to any parties, but it's weird. Oh my god. We can see the whole level Hold on. Wait, wait, wait, don't go back. Go back. Go back. All right, let's go boys! Haha, get wrecked you suck You're dead already. What are you guys even doing? So this is not like the original. Oh my god. Yeah, the mouse is- I can't f***ing see. The mouse is awful. Skill issue. I could just sit and watch a complete novice play video games on this. You know how I know? I'm just kidding, Dan. You're doing great. I'm amazed at how the pillars just have disappeared for me. Oh yeah, they don't even matter. Like, we're staring directly at one. It's so immersive though. Okay, Dan, let's see how well you can drive. There is definitely gonna be some Floatplane extras from this video. So lmg.gg/floatplane. I'll see you guys over there. It's about to happen. Woo! Oh man that is wild. Look I've seen a lot of really cool tech. I have never seen this. Okay I've seen displays like this but they're always out of reach at the top of buildings or whatever. I don't actually get to game on them. Oh my god you could actually drive like this though you can see so much of the road in front of you.  The car is bigger than an actual car. That's hilarious! Look at the scenery though. Yeah. Like it's freaking scenic. It's like looking out a massive window it's just like- It's like it expands your horizons, man. Yeah. Forza Horizons 5. I'm gonna race this loading bar. Oh shoot! Who wins now, humans or machines? This is by far the most immersive experience I've had in flight simulator. It freaking feels like you're being dragged on a chute behind the plane. Yeah. Oh God, oh God. No, not the people. No, not there, Dan. Oh my God, no, no. Dan, Dan, no, no, no. No, no, no. At least he biffed it in the, whoa. So back to the title. Is it the world's biggest TV? If Hisense can call theirs a laser TV, then I say we're in the clear there. Did we build it? With help? Kind of, but do those details really matter? We have it, we gamed on it, and it was so freaking cool. I just wanna shout out Clark's again. These guys were freaking awesome, and shout out our sponsor. If you're looking for an easier way to start being active, or you're looking to enrich your current training, Copilot's team of personal trainers and robust workout app can help. Check out our Copilot link, go.mycopilot.com/linustechtips to get 14 days of free personalized fitness at the link down below. If you guys enjoyed this video, you know what? I'm gonna throw back to the first widescreen projector setup I ever did. It's actually on the NCIX Tech Tips channel and that blew my mind then because because it was using stereoscopic 3D. It was pretty cool. Not as cool as this.