So today I want to tell you 
a problem that was devised   by a Hungarian mathematician called Pál Turán. And this was something he noticed when he 
worked in a forced labor camp in World War II; he was actually forced to work in a brick 
making factory. His job is you had the kilns,   right, that's making the bricks; and then he 
would have to load the bricks onto a trolley   and then he would run that trolley on tracks and 
take it to the storage units. So you could just   run these bricks to and from the storage units. 
The only problem was when these tracks crossed   because when they crossed the trolleys had a 
habit of jumping the tracks and spinning the   bricks right - oh no, right, what a disaster. So 
it did make him think how can we make these tracks   or how can we design this brick making factory 
so we can minimise the number of crossings? So   that's our problem for today, this is the brick 
factory problem. All right so we've got kilns and   storage units let's do one kiln and one storage 
unit just to keep it simple. So that's not going   to be a problem is it? So that's just going to be a 
track connecting the kiln to the storage unit; not   a problem at all. What if we had one kiln and 
two storage units? Doesn't sound like it's going   to be a problem either does it? And then yes we can 
just run a track; and we want to connect the kiln   to every storage unit, that's the idea. Let's say we 
had two kilns and two storage units, maybe that's   a little bit more interesting. Maybe you have a kiln 
here and a kiln there and two storage units. Now we   want to connect every kiln to every storage unit 
so that would have to connect, that would have to   connect, that would have to connect. Maybe you can 
see I've got a crossing point here. So if I went   to complete it - I'll just do it - I'm going to have 
a crossing point. So what do you think? What could   we do to solve that problem? So so we could have 
our kilns and storage units like before; we could   start to connect them like this, and then instead 
of crossing the tracks maybe I'll just do a loop.   That would solve the problem. Or as another 
solution maybe I could just put my kilns and   storage units in a bit of a circle like this - kiln, 
storage, kiln, storage. Then I can connect everything   together in a loop like that, now it's another way 
to solve the problem. The first interesting example   will be three kilns and three storage units; 
so let's take a look at that. We can connect these   together, so far so good, but then we're going to 
start getting into problems I think. So I need to   connect to the second storage unit, and I connect 
to the third storage unit - I think I'm going to   start getting tracks that are crossing. And I'm 
going to get an answer like this - I think I have 7   crossing points. Right, oh, what a disaster. You don't 
want seven crossing points, you'll be picking up   bricks all day. Right, how could we solve that? How
about- I don't know, best solution I can think of: Put them in a circle, let's try that. Kiln,storage 
unit, alternating in a nice hexagon. But we can   connect these up in a nice easy loop can't we? Okay. 
So now we've got six of the lines, there's three   more to connect; essentially I need to connect the 
kiln to the storage unit that's opposite on this   hexagon. So let's do this one first, that's a 
nice easy one to connect. This kiln to this storage   unit; I don't want to cross that track, I can go 
the long way around, nothing wrong with that. And   now this kiln to this storage unit opposite and I 
will get stuck here, I will have to cross. Which is   fine, if I go on the outside I am going to have to 
cross the track or if I go on the inside I'm going   to have to cross one of the tracks. I hope that 
convinces you that I can't do it without crossing   a track, but I can do it with one, one crossing. So 
that kind of minimises the number of crossings.   And how can we do this in general? Right, so if 
you've got let's say K kilns and S storage units,  how can we arrange our factory so 
that we can minimise the crossings? You might want to have a think about it but I 
have an answer for you, I can show you a nice   picture that does solve this- let's have a look. 
So what you want to do is we're going to try and   kind of draw it uh like a like a graph with an 
x-axis and a y-axis; I guess a kiln axis and a   storage unit axis. So like this: a horizontal 
and a vertical. I'm going to put the kilns on   the horizontal axis and I'll try and do half on 
the left and half on the right - or if it's an odd   number which is fine I'll do as close as I can to 
half and half. Let's say I got six, so I put three   on the left and three on the right. So that's 
going to be my kilns like that. And the storage   units I'll put on the vertical axis; and this is 
how I'd lay out the factory. We're going to avoid   the origin, right there in the middle. That's where 
we're avoiding, no kilns no storage units there.   Let's say I do 5 just to show you the odd number 
version of this as well. So 5 I'll do three   above and two below? Yeah. 1, 2, 3 and two 
below. So I'm claiming that this is a minimum.   Let's take a look, let's see what crossings we're 
going to get. I'm going to take this kiln by kiln,   I'll just work my way on the left hand side here 
I think. So let's do this first kiln and I'll uh   connect these three storage units up here. No 
problem so far, let's do the second kiln. I am   going to get crosses here. I'll do this kiln to 
the first storage unit, I'm gonna get two crosses,   and connect to that storage unit. Connect to the 
second storage unit, I've got one cross and then if   I connect to the third storage unit that's not a 
problem, I can get all the way up. So so far I've got   three. I'll do the final kiln as well; we're gonna 
get quite a few crosses here, let's try and work   it out. I'm going to connect to the first storage 
unit: 1, 2, 3, 4- four crosses. And to the   next one: 1, 2 and connect and then to the one 
at the top - that's not a problem I can just connect.   So I've got another six there so I've got nine 
crosses all together. So I'm gonna get nine on   this side as well when I connect these three kilns. 
So on the bottom we're gonna get three and we're   gonna get three down here. So all together how 
many crosses are we going to get? 9 plus   9 plus 3 plus 3: 24. Well I'm 
claiming that's a that's the best you can do - 24   crosses. It's certainly that's what we believe 
that's the best you can do. It's actually not been   proven that that's the best but we haven't found 
an answer that can do better. We can also write   this down- out as a formula so you don't have to 
draw the whole thing. So if you want to work it   out you can work this out as a formula; same sort 
of thinking, the way I showed you how it works. If   you work it out as a formula looks like this: z is 
the number of crosses, let's say k kilns, s storage   units. Then the formula looks like this: k divided 
by two - if it's an odd number you can round that   down. Multiplied by k minus 1 divided by two - if 
that's an odd number you can round that down. And   multiply that by s divided by 2 which we can round 
down and s minus 1 divided by 2 which we can round   down. So there's symmetry in this, I guess there's 
no difference really between the kilns and the   storage units, not from a mathematical point of view. 
So you can see the symmetry in there. We can just   double check our result-
- (Brady: Let's do it)
- And what did I have, 6 kilns? 5 storage units. So that's going   to be 6 divided by 2 - we might have to round 
that down. That's going to be 5 divided by 2 and   round that down. Storage units: 5 storage units 
so that's now a 5 divided by 2, round that   down. And 4  divided by 2, round that down. 
Well 6 divided by 2 is just 3; multiplied   by- this is 2.5, we round it down to 2. Same here, 
2.5 rounded down to 2, and this here that's just   2 that's fine. 3 times 2 times 2 times 
2 is 24; which is the answer we've got.   So that is a formula that describes this picture. 
We think that's the minimum. Not proven, but it does   mean that your number of crosses - if you're in this 
situation with your kilns and your storage units -   it's going to be this number or smaller. We know 
that much. So it's this number or better. We think   that's the minimum. 
- (I can't believe people aren't 
all over this one. I can't believe it's not like)   (been cracked.)
- Yeah so they did think they proved 
this at one point and that was a proof that people   accepted for 11 years - it's one of those stories when 
they go, oh yeah, that seems right until someone   noticed a mistake. We know this much: so this 
minimum number of crosses, it's gonna be less than   my little formula and 83% of that. So we're 
whittling it down, we're sandwiching it between   these numbers. We're getting there, we're trying- 
trying to hone in on that number. It has been   proven for some numbers. So it's been proven for 
uh number of kilns less than or equal to 6 and   storage units as many as you like. So arbitrarily 
many storage units and 6 kilns or less, we know   that is the minimum. So that has been proven. Or 
vice versa because it's all symmetric, if you want   to do it the other way around. But for any values, 
no, we haven't proven that that's the minimum yet.  And there is applications for this apart from 
building bricks. Yeah you want to use this kind   of idea when you're making computer chips. So 
you've got your circuitry in your computer   chip, and you don't want them crossing, you want to 
minimise those crosses because every time those   circuits cross you have to do that in a new layer 
so that they those circuits don't cross. So it's   important when making things like that. It might 
be worth talking about um complete graphs as well;  a complete graph is the idea where you have these 
dots. They're not kilns and storage units anymore,   they're just dots and you want to connect 
everything to everything else. So if I had like   five dots in a pentagon and I will connect 
everything to everything else - first of all I   can just connect my pentagon up and then connect 
all the other lines I haven't done yet. So that's   called a complete graph because you've connected 
everything to everything. That's got five crossing   points on it - can we minimise that? Same question. So 
can we minimise that? Yeah you can. So we could have   the high uh five dots in a pentagon like that; 
and we can draw that out as a pentagon as well.   So let's do our other lines. So we could have one 
line there; and we could have one line there. I   think we could have one line sort of going out 
on the outside like that. One line going on the   outside like that. And what am I missing? This point 
to this point I'm missing - and I have to cross.  So I do have to cross at one point, so that's 
me minimising the number of crossings, so I can get   it down to 1. So the question is how do you do 
that in general? And that's connecting everything   to everything. We think we've got an answer to 
that as well. It's a really nice answer actually;   let's I'll do the 6 version for this. So for- 
if I wanted to connect everything to everything   for 6 you draw it as a regular polygon. So I'm 
going to draw a hexagon out. I then draw in my   edges, there you go, and now I need to draw in the 
remaining lines. This is the rule: if the slope is   positive it goes on the inside of the polygon. So by 
positive slope I mean something like this that   has a positive gradient okay, it's sloping upwards. 
This line has a positive gradient so it stays on   the inside, and this line has a positive gradient 
it stays on the inside. Oh and I should say this   line is also positive, going vertically up, and 
this line going vertically up is also positive   as well. If your line is zero or negative it goes 
on the outside. So this point to this point would   be negative, a negative slope, so I'm going 
to draw it on the outside instead like that. And   this point to this point would be negative so 
I'm going to draw that on the outside as well. This point here to this point- so I've only got one 
line left, it's this point connecting to this point   which would have been your zero and that's 
going to have to cross on the outside.   There. How many crosses do we have? 3 actually,
there's 2 there on the inside and then there's   1 there on the outside. And that again is what we 
think is the minimum number of crossings for that.  You can write that out as a formula as well. So 
if you just have n points connecting everything   to everything; for this diagram this is how many 
crosses it has - it is one quarter of and then we   do a rounding down of n divided by 2, round down 
n minus 1 divided by 2, round down n minus 2  divided by 2, round down n minus 3 over 
2 like that. I did 6 here didn't I? Quarter of   uh 6 over 2 rounded down; 5 over 2 
rounding down; 4 over 2 and 3 over 2. And so it's gonna be a quarter of 3 times 
that's gonna be 2, that's gonna be a 2 and   that is 1 and a half rounded down which is a 1
which is going to be yeah 3. Which is exactly   what it should be. So that formula is describing 
that picture; and we think that's the minimum.   Again, it's the same problem. We haven't found 
a drawing that is better, so we think that's   the minimum. And that's useful to know because 
that's kind of your worst case scenario. Because   it's everything connecting to everything else;
so if you've got a graph which doesn't connect   everything to everything else it's going to be 
that value or smaller than that value so it's   worth knowing that as well. We have proven that 
it is a minimum for n less than or equal to 12.   So we do know it's a minimum for that but 
for the other numbers, still a conjecture.   If you enjoy learning stuff here on Numberphile, 
well you're gonna love Brilliant. Their custom   made courses, questions, and quizzes will expand 
your mind and bring a few smiles to your face as   well. Everything's so interactive, meaning you 
don't just look at a screen, you get hands-on   with the material and there's no better way 
to learn than that. I don't just enjoy the   knowledge on Brilliant, I like that it has a 
bit of personality. Sometimes it's quite funny! This course on math history - well it's a favorite 
of mine. And by the way brilliant has a 30-day free   trial so you could go and do this course right 
now. And if you do sign up to their annual premium   subscription there's a 20% discount by visiting 
brilliant.org/Numberphile. It's never too late   to learn something new; check out Brilliant, 
there's also a link in the video description. ..for us to be all related to the 
same ancestors. Now you were saying   this is not true to life, and I agree 
this is not true to life because in   this example I'm just as likely to 
have two parents who are from Paris..