- Here lies Intel, brutally murdered, the culprit, one Dr. Lisa Su. - It's so good to see you all here today. - Could there be a more beloved CEO in the tech space right now? (screaming softly) Sit down, techno king. Dr. Su was not merely content
to save AMD from bankruptcy, she just got onstage at Computex
2021 to deliver a flurry of body blows to both Intel and Nvidia with a single simple message. AMD is back, and AMD won't wait for them to pick up the pace. And then there was also a bunch of more complicated messages. And if I'm going to get to all of it, I better pick up the pace and tell you about our
sponsor, Ridge Wallet. Ridge Wallet has redefined
the traditional wallet with it's compact frame
and RFID blocking plates. Keep your wallet bulge down
and use offer code Linus to save 10% and get
free worldwide shipping. (soft music) (upbeat music) Perhaps the most interesting announcement Dr. Su made was AMD's plans
for the "non-X" series of Zen 3 Ryzen 5,000 desktop CPUs. I mean, remember that guys? When we used to have X and
then we used to have non-X which was pretty much the
same thing, but cheaper and could usually be overclocked? That went away with Ryzen 5000, except, it's almost funny how
recently we made this video begging AMD to release Zen 3 APUs only to have them show up right now. So not only are the Ryzen 5
5600 G, and Ryzen 7 5700 G APUs with very comparable specs to the already existing 5600 and 5700, they're going to have
respectable Vega 8 Graphics and they seem to be officially
taking over the role that non-X skews had in the product lineup making them an even better value thanks to the onboard graphics. Freaking a, man like man,
if I'm Intel right now I have got to be desperately
trying to clear warehouse space by unloading CPUs so I have room for all the pallets of
deodorant that I'm going to need after watching this keynote. By the way, get subscribed
because we have a video coming on just such a weird backdoor fire sale that Intel seems to be running right now. So at this point, AMD has
thoroughly beaten Intel in the server space, the high
end desktop workstation space, and now the consumer desktop
gaming and mobile spaces. But now they're threatening
one of the last little niches Intel held onto, you know? High-end CPU with onboard
graphics that you can use while you try to find
a real graphics card. Now we'll need to see for ourselves what the benchmarks look like, but given these specs aren't
significantly lower tier than the X series skews, this
looks like a great option for basically everybody given
the current market conditions. Zen 3 CPU performance now,
GPU upgrade path later. One area it looks like Intel
will still only be competing against itself though is
the low-end APU market. When pressed about the
lack of Ryzen 3 APUs, AMD hinted that the current
reality of supply and demand for desktop processors means
that they have no plans to roll out anything
like that anytime soon. That really sucks for
budget conscious gamers, but, I also understand that if you can only get so many wafers it's better to launch a few
products you can actually supply than a whole whack load of
products that you can't. Oh, though, there might be
one way to get a Ryzen 3 APU if you really want. AMD is dropping new Ryzen Pro products. They didn't announce
them during the keynote but they said we could
talk about them anyway in case anyone is interested. I'm not sure that
they're that interesting, but hey, here they are. Yep, those are business CPU's
all right, for business. Now, moving on from business, we have a separate companion video about AMD's new RDNA
2-Based Radeon mobile GPU's with performance testing
and first impressions. But the short version for you guys here is that AMD is claiming up to
43% lower power consumption for a given performance level versus previous gen architecture. And while RDNA1 isn't
amazing by today's standards, that's still nothing to sneeze at. Three skews are coming,
the Radeon on RX 6800M with 40 compute units and 12
gigs of GDDR6 that AMD claims easily beats and RTX 3070 Mobile and is actually competitive
with an RTX 3080 Mobile. Then we've got the Radeon RX
6700M with 36 compute units and 10 gigs around aiming
at Mobile RTX 3070, and the RX 6600M. The first Navi 23-based GPU with 28 compute units
and eight gigs of RAM to take on the Mobile RTX 3060. The RX 6800M and 6600M
will be shipping in laptops starting in early June, while the 6700M will begin shipping "soon", TM. That's not all the graphics news though, we finally got a preview of
FidelityFX Super Resolution, AMD's long awaited answer to Nvidia DLSS, or Deep Learning Super Sampling. We only really got a short
glimpse of what it looks like and if I had to guess,
I'd say that's because AMD didn't really want us
looking too closely at it. I wish I could say it's competitive but it's a lot softer
than I would have expected and I honestly have my
doubts being competitive with DLSS 2.0, which even then doesn't quite match native rendering but at least it's close enough that you probably won't notice while you're popping off head shots. As for why it looks the way
it does, according to AMD, the algorithm they're using is
a spatial upscaling algorithm that happens at the end
of the graphics pipeline when the scene has already
been rendered, which... Oh, well, that kind of
explains it, doesn't it? That is a much less sophisticated approach to the point where it
seems like it's basically a post-processing effect with some additional
smoothing applied at the end presumably to mask errors. Up to four modes can be selected though depending on the implementation in game with AMD claiming FPS
improvements of up to 300% with the performance mode. That seems a bit ambitious so we're going to have to wait and see. But don't you wait and
see what you'll look like in an LTT stealth hoodie,
just visit lttstore.com and then imagine your face on my body. (X-Files theme song) AMD wasn't done with the
middle fingers to Intel though, remember Ultra books? Intel's proprietary specification for thin and light notebooks? Well, now AMD is trying their
hand at something similar but for gaming laptops
called AMD Advantage. They've stopped short of calling
it a certification program so it's more like pirate
code then, but essentially, if you see AMD Advantage on a laptop, you know that AMD helped
directly with the design process and you can count on there
being a minimum spec. AMD specifically calls out
Ryzen and Radeon Mobile, 144 Hertz or better, IPS or OLED displays with FreeSync Premium, and
NVME SSD and AMD Smartshift and Smart Access Memory both supported and enabled out of the box. And aside from the hardware alone, AMD also says that it's
about the experience. So they're targeting over a
hundred FPS gaming at 1080P less than three
milliseconds of display lag, and over 10 hours of
video playback on battery at 300 nits brightness. Oh, and this is a fun
one, the WASD cluster also needs to be cooler
than 40 degrees for now with lower targets coming in the future. The first two laptops with AMD Advantage, Asus' Strix G513 Advantage
edition and HP's Omen 16 will be rolling out later this month with more to come from other
partners like Lenovo and MSI. Man, I'd say it's been so long since AMD has had a compelling
top-end mobile solution but, it's so long I don't
even think that covers it. I don't think they've
ever had both the CPU and GPU aligned like this. It's both beautiful and scary all at once. I hope Intel's new CEO
has a strong stomach because it is going to be
a heck of a ride from here. Now, AMD pre-briefed us
on some of the keynote because they understand that making videos requires scripting time and
editing time and export time, but then they left part of it as a "make sure to watch it all" kind of thing which demonstrates that
they don't understand that you need time to
script, edit and export. So this section is reserved
for anything we felt needed to be hastily edited in. Thanks a lot, AMD. - AMD is going to be in cars? Yeah, their APUs and dedicated
GPUs in Tesla model S and X. I'm not sure why. Pat, get it, fine. I believe there's also more hazing about the Samsung and Radeon
collab with no firm details. Confirmation that
FidelityFX Super Resolution will be available to all
GPU's, including NVIDIA's back as far as Vega and the RX 500 series. And then there's the big news, AMD's is new 3D triplets. They're basically what it
sounds like, 3D stack triplets, which means for example,
a dedicated cache die could be added on top
of each compute complex for significantly higher density. The example I gave was a Ryzen 9 5900X with 192 megabytes of cache,
that's a lot of cache, which ran a full 12% faster in gaming than the stock 5900X
dose in the same package. They're claiming that the 3D stacking tech doesn't use micro-bumps as
Intel's (indistinct) does. And as a result, it can achieve
up to 15 times the density while being three times
more energy efficient. That's bad news for Intel, but for AMD it represents a 200 times density increase over the current 2D layout. Oh, and even worse news for Intel, AMD says they're going to have it out probably by the end of the year. - All in all then, AMD is riding on a
meteoric high right now. I bet Dr. Su feels pretty good about the direction she's
managed to steer a company that we all thought was
done for a decade ago. And all of AMD's engineers
and support staff should feel extremely proud of what they've been able
to accomplish as well. I hope this is just the
tip of the iceberg though because let's face it,
beyond the fanboyism, beyond the buyer's remorse,
beyond even the tech industry, everybody likes an underdog story and AMD has been an ultimate
underdog comeback story. Though, it's not looking
like AMD is going to be much of an underdog story
for long at this pace. So, maybe one day soon, we'll get a story of fire and vengeance from an Intel scorn. Though by the look of things we're going to have to wait awhile. unlike our sponsor, Thangs. Thangs is a platform for
independent engineers, product designers, 3D CAD
enthusiasts, and hobbyists. And it's powered by geometric search allowing you to find 3D models by uploading a different model and finding all similar models. Pretty neat, huh? So if you have a partially completed model you can upload it to Thangs to
find similar completed models to download for your project. You can create a private
team of Thangs users so you can share great ideas and iterate on each other's designs. And you can keep track of
model versions and revisions through the platform. The new hover and highlight feature makes part identification
and selection possible so you can find hidden
parts within the assembly by hovering over the part
name in the assembly list. And with over 1.6 million
index models on the database, Thangs finds the exact item
that you are searching for. So don't wait, join things
growing 3D community at the link down below. Thanks for watching guys, normally here, I'd send you to
watch a not too recent video that maybe you missed, but what you should really go check out is our companion piece on Radeon Mobile. We got hands-on with a
Asus' AMD Advantage laptop and it is a lot more
interesting than you might think which is really saying something.