Hey everyone, this is the third in a 
trilogy of videos with Grant Sanderson   from 3Blue1Brown about sequences that 
don't necessarily do what you'd expect.   Links to the first two videos are on the screen 
and in the video description; you don't have to   have watched them to understand this one but you 
may want to watch them to get the full experience. The way this is gonna work, um we're gonna have a 
race between prime numbers, okay. And we're going   to have two different categories: those which are 
1 mod 4, meaning when you divide by 4 they leave   a remainder of 1, and those which are 3 mod 
4. And we're basically just going to count up   the prime numbers. So the first one is 2, and 2 is 
disqualified from the race because it's the oddest   prime, it doesn't really fit into the pattern of 
the rest, it's the only one that's even. Next uh   we've got 3 and then the next one is 5 and then 
the next prime is 7. 7 is 3 above a multiple   of 4; and then 11 is also 3 above a multiple of 
4. And then the next one 13 is just 1 above a   multiple of 4, and then the next one, 17. So they 
seem pretty neck and neck so far as we're kind of   counting up. So after 17 we've got 19, which is 
3 above a multiple of 4, and then 23 which is 3   above a multiple of 4. And then the next one will 
be 29, and then after that we're going to have 31,   37. And one thing you might notice is that 
so far in the whole race, even though it's   pretty neck and neck, team 3 has always been 
in the lead so far. And you might say, okay,   that seems maybe just kind of at random that that 
would be the case; but actually if we continue   this race - and if you want I can give you some 
visuals that like show the race continuing on -  - (Brady: Do you know someone) (who's 
good at making mathematics visuals?)  - I I can call a guy. But uh 
it will be- it'll always be 3  who seems to be in the lead. And you know they're 
pretty close, they're a pretty even balanced like   you might expect; but if it was completely 
random, if it was just random which bucket   you're tossing it into you wouldn't expect such a 
long streak for there to be a particular winner. And in fact it continues going on until the 
first time that team 1 mod 4 is gonna break into   the lead is going to happen at the prime 26,861. 
But even then the next prime after that is going  to be 26,863. So that was just one brief moment 
of peeking into the lead and then after that they   do stay in the lead quite a bit longer, team 
3 mod 4. And then the next time that team 1 is   able to get ahead is going to happen at 616,841. 
And it keeps the lead a little bit longer then   but then 3 takes over. And if you're looking at 
most of the numbers, most of the time it seems   like- you know 99% of the time the team that's 
in the lead is team 3. And this was actually   a conjecture that someone made that said: is 
it the case that as we let n tend to infinity   and we consider at all of the points of the 
race, how often was it the case that team 3  was in the lead? Does that percentage of the 
time approach a 100%? Interesting question.  You might expect it to be true, if there's 
any reason that there should be more 3s then   you might expect it to either fall, you know, 
completely 50/50 or completely to 100%. But,   you know, I think the question I'd like 
to talk about a little is why would you   expect something like this to happen?
It feels like the prime shouldn't have   a bias one way or another, um why does 
this team get any kind of advantage?  - (Well primes do have a bias, they 
have a bias towards odd numbers ) Fair point, okay, so there's a very 
strong bias towards odd numbers;  um and maybe you're on to something there that we 
shouldn't treat primes so randomly. But often you   have this criteria that's once you rule out 
the obvious things that primes aren't going   to do, the things based on divisibility 
constraints, their behavior feels random.   And this this heuristic actually helps people 
make a lot of conjectures and a lot of it kind   of susses out- uh turns out to be true once 
you delve into it. And so something like   this- another one um that's in in same vein,
let's say we look at the last digits of the   primes. Is it going to be a 1? Is it going 
to be a 3? Is it going to be a 7 or is it   going to be a 9? If you perform that race, as 
you do that longer and longer they all tend to   be about 25% of the time, but two of them are 
distinguished winners. They tend to be winning   the race even if it's just by a little bit. So 
in the long run it tends to be about 25% percent   of them primes end in a 1 but there is just this 
gentle bias. And you might ask why; okay there's   a very- you say the biased to be odd, there's a 
very clear reason they're like strongly biased   to be odd. What is the what is the reason then 
that 3 mod 4 would have this kind of advantage?  - (You have- so are you) (confirming to me 
that it does have an advantage? Is it- has   that conjecture been proven or?) That's- that's 
a really interesting question which we will get   to at the end of the video actually. That- for 
the moment let's just consider that conjecture   something that has strong empirical suggestiveness 
um but it's very tricky to prove that kind of   thing and then the answer is surprising and we 
will get to it. Ah, here's a question of how   much detail we want to go into. I think this is 
a pretty satisfying intuition, if you're willing   to take on faith one magical fact that I present 
to you. So the story is going to start outside of   here but instead with a formula a lot of people 
might know for pi of all things: 1 over 1 minus   1 over 3 plus 1 over 5 minus 1 over 7... So I'm 
basically toggling whether I add or subtract,  and I'm going over all of the odd numbers. 
So this isn't primes, it's all of the odd   numbers that I'm doing. In fact I'm going 
to give a name to let it be kind of clear,   this plus minus pattern where I'm going to make 
up a function that seems needlessly complicated   right now that I'm going to call chi of n. And 
basically chi of n is going to be defined to be   +1 if n is 1 mod 4, it's going to be -1 when n 
is 3 mod 4, and then I could maybe say that it's   0 you know if n is even. And so basically what 
we're doing is we're adding up chi of n divided   by n. Overly fancy way of saying, I'm toggling 
between plus and minus on the odd numbers, but   it's it's nice to have a name for that function 
for what we get to in a moment. Now some people   might know that this actually converges, if you 
look at this on the number line you have your 1,   you subtract back a little bit to 1/3,
plus 1/5, minus 1/7 - and I can even draw   that out a little bit if we want. We've got 1, 
and if we subtract 1/3 you land somewhere here,   if we add 1/5, you know, because that step is 
smaller we don't quite get to that 1. And then   if we subtract 1/7 that step was smaller still and 
so you'll basically be bouncing back and forth.   You know you're going to converge to something 
and the value you converge to is pi-fourths. That   is actually not important for where we're going 
but the fact that it's a number- it's going to   be something. Who doesn't love pi right? Right now 
pi is almost just like an imposter into our story,   it doesn't really have much of importance other 
than the fact that it's something. Now the magical   fact, the absolute magical fact, is the number 
theorists favorite way to take a logarithm.  And it works like this, we're going to take our 
series - and in order for this trick to work,   there's just a couple criteria the series has 
to have. There's got to be a number associated   with every natural number, so we might think of 0s 
for all of the evens here, um and then it has to   have the property that when I multiply the terms 
associated with two numbers like 3 and 5 that the   product of the terms corresponds to the product 
of those numbers. So in this case 3 times 5 is   15 and negative 1/3 times positive 1/5 is indeed 
negative 1/15. It's not exactly obvious but this   will hold no matter which ones you look at. So for 
example if we take 1/7 and 1/3: negative 1/7 times   negative 1/3 will be positive 1/21. And if we go- 
it would be a positive 1/21. So as long as that   property holds you can do this magical thing 
to take a logarithm, where I'm going to say,   I don't like composite numbers, I'm going to kick 
out my composite numbers. If you're not prime   um either you're not going to be in the club or 
you're going to get a strong punishment based   on how not prime you are. So 1 we don't 
like you, 1 gets kicked out entirely.   1/3 you get to stay. So your term 
gets to stay, 1/5 you get to stay, 1/7 you get to stay. 1/9 we say okay, 
1/9 you're not prime, I don't like you,   but you're just a prime power. At least you 
only have one prime factor so you're not as   bad as those dirty composites like 6 or 15. So 
we'll let you stay, but because you're the square   of a prime we're going to give you a punishment 
by reducing you by 1/2. So it gets to stay but   only half as powerful. And then it goes on: 1/11, 
you're prime, you're cool, you get to stay. 1/13,   you're prime, you're cool, you get to stay. 1/15, 
not only are you not prime you have two different   prime factors, you're very composite, you're out 
of the club entirely. And I'll just do a couple   more to kind of make it clear: we've got 1/17 - 
and notice I've got two pluses in a row but that's   because we kind of kicked out the minus. All we 
care about is whether this number is 1 mod 4 or 3 mod 4. So I'll be subtracting off 1/19, 
I will also be subtracting off 1/23, because uh 1/21 got kicked out for having too many 
factors. 1/25 we're going to have to keep him but   divide him by 2. A way of saying, okay you're not 
prime, but you're just a prime power, and because   you're the square of a prime you get reduced. And 
just to make this extra clear, the next one that   we see is the cube of a prime, 1/27, so I'm going 
to reduce it by 1/3 that gets me 1/ 27. In general   what we're doing here is we're taking 1 over k 
times something divided by p to the power of k;   where p is a prime number, k could be anything, 
and we're basically taking this chi function of   p to the k. Which is just a way of measuring, are 
you plu- are you 1 mod 4 or 3 mod 4? So that might   be how you write this in general.
- (So Grant if this is) (some kind of shortcut, it's not 
feeling like a shortcut but all right)  - So it's it's not a shortcut,
it's just the coolest way-   because if you- okay I do this, I do this 
completely random procedure to my series,   and you'd say what is it going to equal?
I don't know, some completely different number   that's completely unrelated to the thing that we 
started with. Because you went, primes are such   a random thing that you're hacking them off at 
these seemingly random points, you should expect   nothing normal to come from this. But the beauty 
is that what you get is just the natural log of   whatever it was before. And um we could do this 
with a lot of different things actually: another   famous sequence people might know is if we take 1 
over 1 + 1 over 4 + 1 over over 9 and we add   up the reciprocals of all the square numbers. So 
we kind of go on and we're always adding up 1   over n squared. This has the property we care about 
where when you multiply corresponding terms, what   you get corresponds to their product. If we do the 
same game, we kick out some prime numbers, we keep   the prime powers but we reduce them a little bit, 
uh it'll again be a logarithm. So this sequence   happens to be pi squared divided by 6, and if we do 
our whole like prime number game - whatever we want   to call it - what we'll get will be the natural log 
of pi squared over 6. And so that that holds in   general and it's it's the weirdest possible way 
to take a logarithm. Why am I talking about this?   The reason is that if we look at the sequence 
that we have here; now we have uh mostly primes,  we've got some prime powers in there, but it's 
mostly prime numbers and we're kind of adding   or subtracting them and this might give us a 
little bit of an indication that if they're   to stay roughly evenly balanced, you know, that 
would justify the fact that we're equaling some   constant. Where if there were systematically way 
more that are 1 above a multiple of 4 or way   more that are 3 above a multiple of 4, the whole 
series might diverge. A couple other magical   facts I'll throw down will be that this series 
diverges absolutely, which is a way of saying   if we changed all of the minuses to be pluses 
and we just asked, hey I'm going to add up the   sizes of all of these terms, does that converge 
to any number? It goes and blows up to infinity.   And what that kind of tells us is if we look at 
the camp that are all of the things that are being   added and all the camp that are being subtracted, 
both of those blow up to infinity. And so when   we're cutting it off at a finite point they have 
to stay roughly balanced with each other. So this   tells us two important things: one is why we have a 
kind of even balance in our race, and it's not that- (But this was- but you did this with the 
odd numbers, this is just prime numbers but it's)   (the same sort of principle)
- The key equation at 
this point is to focus on what happens after we   do our log trick where all the stuff that remains 
in the series is mostly primes. So what I could   say is, if we kick out all the prime powers 
those- they don't actually amount to that much.   They converge absolutely, um and in fact they 
have to be just bounded by some constant. And so   we could say if we ignore all the prime powers 
we would have the sequence which sometimes you're   adding a prime, sometimes you're subtracting it, and 
because it equals just a constant, just some number,   we can know that neither one of those camps blows 
up much faster than the other. However, all of the   nuance for who's winning the race happens when 
we really think hard about what happens to those   prime powers. Here's the like intuition - it is not 
a proof - but here's the vague intuition for why you   might expect 3 mod 4 to be winning this race even 
if you didn't start performing the race. If you   knew some analytic number theory, you had a strong 
familiarity with the series, your prediction might   be I'm going to put my money on horse number 
3. And how do I want to draw this? I'm going to   kind of have two buckets here; this is going to 
be all of the stuff that we're adding in our sum   and then this is going to be all of the stuff that 
we're subtracting. And we're just going to kind   of- what kind of things are we adding? What kind of 
things are we subtracting? So the stuff that we're   adding, it's all of the primes which are 1 above 
a multiple of 4 so- or rather the reciprocals of   those. So 1/5, 1/13, 1/17 - 
these are the kind of things that we're adding. But   there's also some squares of primes that we're 
adding: in fact critically the square of every   prime. Because even if you started from someone who 
is going to be a negative, like -1/3,  once we look at the square term corresponding 
to it it's something that we're adding.  So also in this camp of things that we're adding 
is you have things like one half of 1 over 9, or you also have things like one half of 1
over 25, or one half of 1 over 49. So   all of the primes are represented here with their 
squares. And then in terms of the cubes, those ones   are also kind of accounted for but only the ones 
which are one above a multiple of 5. So for   example 5 cubed is going to make it in, 1 
over 125, but uh 3 cubed is actually   something that we subtracted so it's accounted 
for in the other one. And maybe I'll even write   that over here, so we've got -1/3 by 
1 over 27. This is- the point I want to make I   guess is if we look at this negative bucket - I'll 
also write up in the top - also subtracting all   of the primes associated with things that are 
3 above a multiple of 4. So we're subtracting   1/3, subtracting 1/7, subtracting 1/11. 
What I want you to notice is how all of   the all of the even powers necessarily end up in 
this positive bucket. So we also have you know 1/4   outside of 1/81 - all of the even powers end up here.
This gives a bias in some sense in the direction   of our adding bucket. So a priori, if we just say 
looking at all of these terms what might we    we expect? We'd say, well, there's this little bit 
of a bias for those in the adding bucket to just   have more numbers. If there were always the same 
amount of numbers 1 above a multiple of 4 and   3 above a multiple of 4, because of those powers of 
the primes that show up here, that gives a little   bit of added weight to this positive bucket. So if 
we know that we actually want these terms to be   roughly evenly balanced, in the sense that they're 
canceling each other out so much that they get to-   I mean the natural log of pi/4, it's a very small 
number but the critically is it's a constant, it's   not like something that suggests one half of 
this uh plus/minus bucket is going to tend off   to infinity. It means in order to make up for the 
fault that they get by not getting of the any of   the fourth powers or any of the squares or any 
of the sixth powers, we need just a little bit more   primes to start with, a little bit more that are in 
this um 3 mod 4 bucket. Again, it's not a proof, but   that's where you might get this little intuition 
that uh in order for this equation to balance out   you need a little leg up in that second camp. What 
this would suggest is that there should be a bias   for 3- team 3 to stay in the lead more, there should 
be a bias where there'll always be a few more   um primes that are mod 3 to make up for this uh 
imbalance that they get once you introduce the   powers. But the- what you might expect is saying how 
often is it the case that they are in the lead? If   we're watching this horse race, is it the case that 
after some amount of time team 3 always stays in   the lead there on thereafter? Okay that's a little 
bit strong. The softer consideration, which was the   conjecture made, is that the proportion of numbers 
for which when you look at everything up to that   um the team 3 is in the lead tends to be closer 
and closer to 100% as you look at more and more   numbers. So as this horse race is proceeding, 
and you widen and widen your glance, you say   at various different checkpoints on their track a 
vast majority of those checkpoints should be ones   where team 3 is in the lead. Now interestingly 
that's not true; and if you look at what's the   percentage of numbers where team 3 was in the 
lead on your way up it kind of toggles. It's   always very very big it's- you know 99%, 98%, close 
to 100% but forever and forever it just sort of   wanders around and it doesn't approach anything. 
Let's say you look at the first billion numbers.   You might notice that as we look at the race up to 
that billion numbers, 99.5% of the time team   3 was in the lead; but uh there was some times that 
team 1 was in the lead. Then you might ask, okay   what if I looked at the first trillion numbers, 
the first quadrillion numbers. You might expect, oh when I look at the first quadrillion then 
it's 99.99% of the time that team 3 is in the   lead - that's not true. As you look at it then, you 
know, maybe it's like 98% of the time that team 3   is in the lead. So they do trade off but there's 
a clear bias for team 3, and the question is, you   know, how often do they trade off? And uh turns 
out if you measure in a slightly different way-  so we're going to change the rules of the 
race, where rather than counting each prime   um exactly you kind of discount them 
by the- the reciprocal of that prime.  If- for the sake of the proofs I guess that must 
have made it uh easier to prove, but it turns out   the team 3 will tend to be in the lead, as you 
look at more and more numbers it's in the lead 99.59% of the time. So as you look at bigger and 
bigger numbers it tends to be the case, with the   appropriate metric, that this is the amount of 
time the team 3 is in the lead. So it's it's   almost always in the lead but not almost always 
in the usual mathematician sense of the phrase.   Because usually when they say 'almost always' they 
mean like 100% uh or it tends to 100%. So instead   it's in the normal human way of using the word 
almost, almost always uh the case that uh team 3   is in the lead. But it is not such a clean fact 
that it's just 100% or 0.
- (Does it ever get to)   (a point where it will be in the lead forever or?) 
- No
- (So no matter where you are in the number line)   (team 1 has always got another moment in the 
front coming?)
- Exactly, team 1 will always have   a chance. And in fact in this metric, as you look at 
bigger and bigger swaths, it has 0.5% of the time it'll be up there.
- (It's the Little Engine That Could)
- Yes yes it really is, it really is. (It's the tortoise!)
- It is the tortoise, slow and steady um every now and then it beats the 
hare - even if the hare seems systematically better.   Thanks for watching this video. If you want 
to see more from Grant you probably already   watch his channel 3Blue1Brown, there'll be 
links in all the usual places. I'd also like   to say thank you to Numberphile's Patreon 
supporters who make it possible for me to   travel and have the time to meet with people 
like Grant and make these videos. If you'd like  