- I've been having a really
crazy problem recently. Watch, when I tie this
shoe, it does not stay tied. Look, see, look, I just tied
it and it's not staying tied, and I think I know why. This is a map of America. This is where we currently are. I think our state just isn't good for tying shoes, all right. So here's what we're gonna do. Chris, take this shoe. So you have that shoe, you're gonna go, boom,
boom, boom, boom, boom, and tie it in all those states. I'm gonna drive and go, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, tie it in those states, and we're gonna find which state it works for tying shoes. - I'm not sure that's how that works. - I don't care, go. - Okay, bye. - Bye. Damn it, this state doesn't work either. Onto the next one. We're coming up on Georgia, we're like seven hours in. Stay posted, Jake Paul-ers. We are right on the border of Georgia, we're basically in Georgia, right here, drove through South Carolina. And you know what that means? I think this one might actually work. I'm pretty excited, I think it worked. Not again. What's the next state? Alabama. - We're over Florida right now. - Devices must remain in airplane mode until after we land. - Just gonna go ahead. We seriously cannot move our leg. Boom.
- Wait, wait, I think, oh, what? Where's the sign? Oh, hey. Hey, that says Tennessee. Hell yeah, boys. I think I got it. - Hey Jimmy, where are we man? - Chattanooga. - Stopping at a hotel. - Hell yeah. All right. - What do you mean who is this? - All right, boys,
hopefully this state works. I feel pretty good about this state, I think it might actually work. Not again. - We just landed here in
Louisiana, now it's time. Currently we are flying over the Arkansas and Tennessee border, so Imma tie this shoe twice. There's one. There's two. - Chris is asleep. We're over Kentucky now. Boom. So that is for Kentucky. Apparently you can't tie your shoe and keep it tied in Kentucky. Chris is still sleeping. As you can see, we are
now coming into Wisconsin. - Here we are in Michigan. - Why does your shoe keep coming untied? - I don't know. Maybe one day we'll figure it out. - All right, guys, we
just pumped some gas. Yeah, we still got a lot of ways to go. ♪ Oh, yeah ♪ Hell yeah, boys, we're in Alabama. All right guys, we're here at Alabama. Let's just give it a try. Eww. Oh man. My shoe's untied. What's the next state, I keep forgetting. According to my assistant,
Tennessee is next. Hopefully it'll work there. - Dude, why didn't we take one of those. - Dude, actually we should
cross America on one of those. - Oh, hey Beast, I think I found your street here. - Third avenue? - No man, look over there. - Gay.
- In Iowa. I figured we'd take our
shoes on a nice lunch. We should tie it first. - You need bread, white bread? - I'm having a hard time. All right, there you go. All right, we're flying to Texas. And this is gonna be a long boy. - And we're gonna hit all the states. - And it's gonna be a heck and. - 37, welcome to board for. - Thanks, who's talking? - Put the money in the bag. Put it in! - All right guys, you know
we're not ones to quit. We're gonna give Kentucky
a try, as you can see. You know, I believe in you Kentucky, I think it'll stay tied. Not again. You gotta be kid. - There's the mountains of Texas. - Indiana. Hey, be quiet, copyrighted music. All right, boys, we're at Indiana. It's been a long and treacherous journey but I think, what state are we in? - Indiana. - I think Indiana is. Indiana's a state? I think Indiana is the
one that will work, yeah. Sorry, sleep deprived. All right, hopefully Indiana doesn't su. Ugh. They do. - Mad at all. - And then you just start. Oh, there it is.
- Hey. - We are in Ohio boys. We're gonna find the Paul
brothers and write a diss track. All right guys, we are currently in Ohio. We're at the very southernmost tip. Literally, its Dick is hanging out and we're right in the tip of Ohio's Dick. And we're gonna tie my shoe. I'm feeling really confident about Ohio. You know, the Paul brothers are from here, their shoes always look tied. I think they'll prob, man. Oh gosh. I'm even a Jake Paul-er, why Ohio? West Virginia. - We're in Denver, Colorado. I'm very, very tired. Darn, my shoe came untied again. Good thing we're in four states and we can test it all at once. All right, let's try tie it in New Mexico. Oh, darn. It came untied again. Let's try Colorado. I can feel the judgment, it's so hard right now. All right, now it's tied in Colorado. Boom, there's Utah. - That one's unique, you guys. - Oh yeah. - Haven't seen it yet. - Boom. Four states. - Guys, we're here in
West Virginia, y'all. We're gonna tie our done
'der shoe here, y'all. So we just finished
eating at that Red Lobster and it was pretty good,
we left a huge tip. Tipping waitresses $10,000 inbound but what we're here for
is the tying of the shoes and we shall see is. What state are we in? Isn't it like, West Virginia now? Yeah, all right, we're gonna
see if west Virginia's good. Hey, I think it worked. Dude, it's staying tied, look. Look, it's staying tied. Look. It's working. God. - Again? Are you kidding me? Two times in a row. - Can I use your back? - Okay, he was pointing you out, and he was like, mom, that
guy's a famous YouTuber. I was like, you should run
into Red Lobster, like. - Do you wanna take a picture or anything? Can you turn off that
music for the 50th time? All right guys, I just got the camera up, we're in Maryland. We had to pull over on
the side of the road so we could get the sign shots. That is Maryland, boys. We are open for business. Larry Hogan. What's up, Larry? Howdy partners, I have an untied shoe and I want this untied shoe tied. Hopefully Maryland can pull through. All right. Let's see if it worked, boys. I'm feeling pretty good about it, I mean, we got a good
view in the background. My shoe is tied pretty. - Oh, dude
- Oh my goodness. - We're here in Wyoming. It's been like, two hours,
were in South Dakota. It's late and I'm tired. I don't get how it keeps on coming untied. So we're in North Dakota in a random hotel and there's a water park
in here for some reason. We're gonna tie our shoe, and then we're gonna go
down the water slide. North Dakota done. I hate that shoe so much. - Hey, we're in Virginia. Virginia's for lovers. All right, now we'll see how that means. Guys, we're in Virginia and. Honestly, I don't feel like
making this dumb joke again. Do I have to keep doing this? All right. See me shoe, it's tied. Oh no, it came untied, darn. - Oh no.
- Wow, Virginia sucks. All right, let's move on. Ugh. Delaware, as you can see. It's too cold to make cheesy jokes, we're done. Hey, what's up guys? Pennsylvania here, and today we'll be tying our shoe. ♪ You don't own me ♪ ♪ I'm not your ♪ Oh no, Nevada. - Why conference? - Aw, man, looks like he came untied here. I guess we gotta go to Oregon. All right, we're here in Portland, Oregon. Hopefully my shoe stays tied. - No, we'll never say no. - Darn it, it didn't
stay tied here either. I guess we'll go to Alaska. - Oh, Jersey. - [Chad New Jersey, guys. - We're the mafia, mate. I'm actually awake this time. - I don't think the mafia says mate. Was this the Australian mafia? - Yeah. We're in New Jersey and
it's so cold outside, I just don't wanna step outside this car. We're just gonna give this
shoe a tie here in the car while we're driving through New Jersey because I'm not a low gangster, I'm a, not a Maverick, I'm a. Oh, man. ♪ My anaconda ♪ ♪ don't want nothing ♪
Don't. ♪ Unless you've got buns, hun ♪ You're blinding me. - All right, so we're here in Alaska, it's snowing, it's cold. Hopefully my shoe stays tied. Please stay tied, please. I'm tired of being in the cold. Dang it, it didn't stay tied. - We're in New York. ♪ New York ♪ This is the Trump hotel right here, we wanted to stay there. We called ahead and they
said they had an open room, but when we pulled up they apparently don't have a room anymore. I think they just saw us and they're like, a bunch of teenagers can't
afford a thousand dollar room. So yeah, we're not tying
our shoe in the Trump hotel. Screw you, Trump. - All right, yeah, get
him the hell outta here, will you, please. - It's like 3:00 AM. We're in New York. ♪ New York ♪ All right, I'm tired. Can I go to bed now? - All right, we're in Seattle, Washington. Let's see if it stays tied here. - Yeah, I'm 22. - Oh, darn - We're in Connecticut. There was a huge snowstorm, we're probably gonna die. Boom. We're not doing that untie stuff. Just turn off the camera, I'm done. RI stands for Rhode Island. We're gonna make it rain on Rhode Island. And yeah. Rhode Island, you have been done. So we're in Massachusetts where the guy I gave
all that money to lives. You know, Space Lyon, this
video that got 12 million views. I'm watching his live stream right now but yeah, we're gonna be
pulling up to his house in literally 25 minutes. My first time ever meeting him. - Mr. Beast, do you care if my room is messy or not? - No, I don't care if your room's messy. - Oh, hey, what's up man. - Hey, what's going on.
- Hey. We doing it. - Can we. I wanna hug you. - Oh, thanks, Seth. - This is the setup. - Is there a delay?
- This is the actual. No, five second delay. - I gotcha, so they'll be
going crazy right about. - Look at that.
- Yeah, yeah. - They're going nuts.
- Yeah. What's up, boys. I'm tying my shoes in every state and so we just stopped by real quick. Okay, high five a friendship.
- Oh yeah, friendship.
- All right, guys, ready? - [Videographer And
Jimmy] Three, two, one. - So where do you wanna tie your shoes? - We're actually gonna give you the honors of tying the shoe. Tie it however you tie, man. - All right, here we go. - Chad, judge him for tying. Holy. That is the weirdest thing I've ever seen. I'm a little creeped out by
how he just tied this shoe. - What do you mean? - Can I drop Tilted Towers real quick? - Yeah, go for it. - I'm the new Space Lyon. I'm Space Beast. - Oh.
- Oh, okay. Well, I just destroyed
his kill death ratio. All right, well that was my debut. There's a reason I'm not a face. So do we hug?
- Oh, they wanted me to like shake your hand, but like. - All right, wait. Oh, shit. - Oh, oh.
- Oh, my. Dude, was that on. I swear to God, if that was on stream and I see that the rest of my life. - New video idea, just. - I'm charging back. All right, I'm leaving, I'm done. It was nice nice meeting you, though. So we met with Space 30 minutes ago and apparently I forgot
my Yeezy at his house. So it looks like we're
gonna have to turn around. Do you have the shoe for us? All right, guys, we've been driving all the way up and we have a plane that's
supposed to take us back home and we're running low on time so I'm just gonna tie my shoe in the car. Aren't we in like, New
Hampshire right now? - Yep. - Boom, New Hamster done. - All right, we made it to Hawaii. Let's see if the shoe stays tied. All right. Let's see if it stays tied in Hawaii. - Dang it, we've been to all 50 states. - We're out of states. What do we do now? Guess we go back home. - Sorry guys, like I've
honestly stopped caring. It's been like four days on the road. Boom. Vermont's done, let me nap. All right guys, it's
time for the final state. All right guys, it's like really late. We're driving back, we did all the states. That was a lot of time. You know, obviously we did half, our friends did the other half but still the driving we did took like 50 hours, right? Something, I don't know. It took a long time. We're driving back, there's
like a snowstorm going on, and like and subscribe. We just tied our shoe in every state, and in every state it came untied. We're back in North Carolina, I'm gonna give it one last try. This doesn't work, I'm giving up on wearing
shoes the rest of my life. - [SpongeBob Announcer] Five hours later. - Oh wow, it's still tied. Dude, I guess North
Carolina's the only state. This video took way too much time. - So does that mean we didn't even have to
go to all the states? - Apparently not. Sorry, man. You just spent a week
in the air for nothing, I just spent a week
driving around for nothing. Dude, apparently North Carolina works. Subscribe.