AI has become quite prevalent these days. I mean we see mobile apps telling you to point your phone at your kind of code, got a magazine or something like that. All these solutions are basically using computer vision and your phone camera. All they're really doing is recognizing a picture, so ideally a 2D image, but they can extrapolate from that. Once they recognize the image they can get its position in space and its orientation and then just tie virtual content to it. Right? Now the problem with that is, it looks pretty impressive, but they don't actually ,these systems, understand the environment around them. It doesn't know that this is a card, it doesn't know that I'm holding it in my hand or anything like that. So it might put my hand in front of it. If it can still see part of the card or anything like that, it will keep drawing the content above my hand and the illusion is very easy to break with these things. That's because we, you know, the same as the depth problem but we see in computer graphics before. Exactly yes, and also it limits the kinds of things you can do. If all it really understands is ok I've seen this thing I know my position in space. It quickly limits the... the things you can do with physics or moving about you're tired of looking at that mark and maybe moving a little bit off it with optical flow as we discuss another time. The thing is that there are ready solutions that are trying to deal with this. For example there is the Google Tango project. which, what they did was this group, they looked at the kinect and said okay what does the kinect do? It has a depth camera it reads the environment around it. Well, it was designed to read, eh.. to look at humans and register what they're doing. But it turned out it was pretty good at 3D scanning stuff. So they said, alright let's strap one of those to back of a tablet and they came up with this. This is the original Google Tango development device. It has on the back of it, a laser sensor depth cameras and what have you. I believe it's billed as the spatially aware tablet. So, it has a very good understanding of where it is, its orientation, what it's looking at and the motion. So what this does is it creates a point cloud in pretty much well real time, of the environment around it. Unlike the previous AI that is where we started reading that original point where with understanding of the environment and understanding of the motion of  the tablet, we can start tying virtual content to things we couldn't before. So, I can put a mesh on this floor and it will stay there or I can put a piece of sound on the corner of this cabinet and whenever I come close i'll get to hear the sound. But this is now an old device under with about 3-4 years old and it was only developer device. There is actually the first commercial device the Lenovo fab2pro I believe. It is now looking like a proper commercial device horrible case notwithstanding and just like the developer device it does have an array of sensors over here. So what can this do let's have a look. It is probably my favorite example although it's not very exciting. We have this plane that is reading the environment pretty well and telling me what play i'm looking at the green mill dog yeah so the green little dot is basically the edge detection and this playing over here is aligning itself to the real world so in this case the table there's a lot of whites are playing a surface basically that is aligning itself to the real world I can see that only the edges line up with the table and the area near the wall ovens and as we go over the floor seats of its turnaround and lining it up to any surface ok yeah so that's all very well but what does it actually mean well it means that i can go and understand the real world so there we go ok let's measure the size of the door you're drawing a line yeah i'm basically using a measuring tape and there we have it so there are essentially two market on this you can see how with an understanding of the space around it can actually start measuring as well so we could go around this room taking measurements and end up with an architectural floor pan I mean that is one of the use cases you know they felt safe agents real estate yeah it has it already though we've been using it to create basic floor plans and 3d model that they'll just checking the website with a better understanding of what is what the environment Uranus populated with and how the cameras moving about you can start doing way more interesting things such as populating the environment around you with your own virtual content or whatever you might want to see so this is the Augmented camera application and what is a normal camera application but again with that whole understanding of the environment things we can start putting virtual content inside it so in this case we can put a cat where would you normally have a cat let's see here oh oh there it is reflected on the floor there and we have a cat that is standing on the floor playing on the floor with thing of the devices and understanding of what floor is and I guess we can also use a laser pointer or where we cannot all of that is that it should when it sees it up there definitely not acting like him cat I know to be honest but down the fish so that's fine it's recognized the floor and we have a cat playing on the floor but maybe we can get it up onto another surface that is recognized like say the table and gets the difference between the floor down there and the top of the table but and it's jumped off the table with a traditional AR application that was just using a marker to do that it would have an understanding of that it would just be doing everything in relation to that market whether we had on the floor in the table it wouldn't matter this now is were actually having lied i went to intelligence content in this case populating space are real space the objects that we use every day you can see how this could end up being something a bit more exciting in fact we do have something to show for that one of these so this is the max of holland same principle that strapped to your face so as you can see in has again it's pretty much a connect all across the top over here right this is the proper heads-up display on say something earlier endeavors like the google glass which is simply just the screen off to the side which didn't cover your normal vision with ottoman content but this is yeah I see the real deal this is the wall I don't want to make that claim by upset start from a lot of the stuff I've tried this is probably the one that gets it does in fact i can show you a bit more than