- What's up guys, I have 10,000 presents. I have an army of elves
and I have a red hat which basically means I'm Santa Claus. I'm gonna do everything
in my power to help people in need have the best Christmas ever. So let's get started. But instead of a sleigh,
I got a private jet for our 10,000 toys. Let's do it. - [Group] Yeah. - I'm so glad we got rid of the sleigh. This is so much faster. We have a private jet with 10,000 toys. I'm gonna drop you each
off at a different location with thousands of toys. You're gonna give them all away. - [Group] Yeah.
- Yeah. - [Group] Yeah.
- Yeah. - [Group] Yeah.
- Yeah. - [Man] Me and Chris made
our first stop in New York at this children's hospital
and we just gave them a lot of presents. So we're here at the first
hospital and we have a ton of toys. Look at all those bad boys. Obviously we're not gonna
show the kids on camera 'cause it's a little disrespectful
just to shove cameras in kids' faces. So we're just gonna leave
a bunch of toys on a table and then they can just grab
what they want off camera. - Let's go. Four down, a lot more to go. (jolly music) I got bags of presents. And that's the last of the presents. Yay, we're off to the next location. - [Man] Then we went straight to DC and hit a different children's hospital and it's safe to say
we had a lot of gifts. - [Man] You got it. - We're just doing it. - [Man] You got it. - I'll give you a three of these for that. - I'm not in charge. (laughs) - [Man] Now that we're done
with DC, let's pull up a map. This is where we are. This is where the private jet dropped off Jake, Marcus, Chandler. Let's check on Jake. - We are at Le Bonheur Children's Hospital in Memphis Tennessee, we got
a truck full of presents. Let's go hand 'em out. - [Man] And as you can see, Jake gave away thousands of toys. Now let's see what Marcus
is up to in New Mexico. - We got a truck full of toys. Let's go give 'em out. - [Man] And guess what? Marcus did the same. He had truck loads of toys and he gave them away
to multiple hospitals. Now let's wrap up things on
the west coast with Chandler. - We're finally here, let's
give these kids their presents. (kids cheer) (jolly music) - I want to thank Mattel for helping and donating all these toys to these kids. They're really gonna love them. (group cheers) - Now it's time to help homeless
shelters and food banks. - [Group] Yeah. - It's currently 20 degrees outside. So homeless shelters
need a lot of blankets. Guys, you know the deal,
I want all of them. We're gonna need more carts. - [Man] Kobe. - I can't believe that worked. - Whose fault was that? (dramatic music) - [Man] Bruh. - All right, elves, now
we need some jackets. They didn't tell us what size, so we're just gonna buy 'em all. Let's keep going. - I think I might have to buy these. - So the homeless shelter
also needs some socks. I want all of them. They said they need a lot of wool socks. - Elves, I need the next cart. Wait, attention. We found more thick wool socks. There we go, boys. They also said they needed gloves. (upbeat music) These are $30 a pop. And we bought a ton of them. But guess what, I'm Santa who cares? - Yeah, Santa rocks. - The issue with toilet paper and paper towels is it
takes up a lot of space. So we have like 30 carts. (upbeat music) Now we need some tissue. - You ever heard of elf on a shelf? - Chandler, you're a special human being. Next thing on the list
is that homeless shelters really need peanut butter. - Oh my God, Peanut butter's
heavier than you think it is. - Next up is they really need cereal. - Look at all the faces. - [Man] I think that guy
kind of looks like you. - [Man] Why get toast
when you get churros? - Dude, they have beans. - Beans was not on the list. We need diapers, toiletries, and... - Beans. Those are canned food. - Canned food was on the list. - We're gonna have to
buy extra toilet paper. - And formation. So we need a lot more food. So I want pallet of that. - [Group] Pallet of that. - Pallet of apples. - [Group] Pallet of apples. - Pallet of green beans. - [Group] Pallet of green beans. - Not Oreos. - [Group] Not Oreos. - Campbell's'.
- [Group] Campbell's. - Ritz.
- [Group] Ritz. That should be good. And one of the last things
they needed was diapers. And then we need toothpaste
and toothbrushes, we're good. All right, Jake, go get
toothbrushes, we gotta go. We're running outta time,
we're gonna check out, they're gonna grab that. Toothbrushes, they need toothpaste. - Colgate. - They give people that come
into the shelter a toothbrush. Obviously a lot of people come
in, so they just need a ton. Every time we go to a homeless shelter, they're always in short supply. This is a few thousand, we're good. Wow, this is a ton of stuff. Wow, this isn't even everything. Please don't ever stop
watching our videos. - It's so much fun spending this money. - I need more views so I can keep this up. After this video, go watch 10 others. Now that we've got literally everything the homeless shelter and food
bank told us they needed, we're gonna go drop it off. I think it's time we show
them what we've bought. Open it up, so this is one U-Haul. This is our second U-Haul,
which is mostly beans. This is our third U-Haul,
it's full of toiletries. And this is our fourth U-Haul,
kind of the same thing. So now we have to unload this and we don't like doing lots of unloading. - All right, I'll multiply. - We're gonna do a terrible jump cut. Oh, there we go. All right, guys, we need to
take all this stuff inside. Let's do it, let's go. (group cheers) You're good.
- Come on back. - You're good.
- Come on back. - Keep going, it's only Chris. - It's only me.
- It's just Chris. - I'm so unimportant. - Bought a Jackpot. - [Man] Bada beans.
- [Man] Whoa. - So the first stop's a food bank, so this is all the canned food. Let's do it. Beans.
- Beans. - Beans.
- Beans. - Corn.
- Corn. (small voices chatter) - We're here to help people.
- Helping. (upbeat music) - So Jennifer here works
at this food bank, right? - Yes.
- So could you just tell our viewers where
this food will end up, stuff like that? - So the food that we get
here at this particular branch will actually go out to
mostly three counties, they'll go out to other counties as well. And it goes to many different agencies, soup and food pantry. - Do they need beans? - Beans? Yes. - We got a lot of beans. - [Man] Beans.
- Protein, canned goods, anything that you basically
would want in a meal, people would want that as well. - So just to confirm, this
will do a lot of good. - This will do a lot of good. In fact, a lot of this will
probably be gone on Monday. - Oh no, really? - And if not on Monday, it
will be gone on Thursday. - All right, well, that's a challenge. How much do I need to make it past Monday? I'll go buy everything in Sam's club. - You could, you could.
- Say no more. I'm gonna go get more. Only enough canned food until Monday. Well, how about this? Now. (dramatic music) All the canned food. They said this would
only last until Monday. I want until Sunday, the next one. Good, you stack those boxes. Chris, joke. - Don't worry, it's all peachy. - I think we've brought plenty of beans. No more beans, go grab other canned stuff. - Beans. - [Man] All right, all right. - I have such a little, little body and these can are so heavy. - [Man] Jimmy, I think this elf is having some problems here. - He's elf dysfunctional. Let's see how long this food lasts now. (jolly music) (vehicle beeps) - A wonderful gift, thanks very much. - So now we're actually gonna go help a local homeless shelter. Let's make a quick pit stop at a college to pay some tuition. We're currently on a college campus and we're gonna pay some tuition. - Dude, I've cried here a lot. - Hello there, sir. So I'm gonna ask you a question. If you answer it right in three seconds, I'll give you money. - All right. Are you ready? Doesn't matter. Who was our 23rd President? 1, 2, 3, I don't care. You want money? (laughs) Here you go, here's a semester of tuition. - Are you serious? - And here is 13 cents. - We have our next victim. - All right, let's go get 'em. - [Man] Victimizer. - We're gonna play a game
where we ask you a question, if you get it right,
we just give you money. - What is the best Nickelback song? - Oh, oh.
- That's correct, none of them. (sad music) - Yeah.
(group claps) - Here you go. - That's crazy, thank you so much. - You're very welcome. Hey, how's it going? - Do you wanna play a game with me? - Heel. So I have a question
and if you get it right, we'll give you money, okay? Okay, so am I Santa Claus? - Mm hmm.
- I'm Mr. Beast. But we'll still give you
money anyways, I don't care. - 'Cause he's Mr. Beast. - [Man] Now let's help
out some homeless people. - Oh.
- [Man] Caught it. - Earlier, we did the food bank. Now we're doing a homeless
shelter, let's do this. - [Man] Oh. - Oh, no, no. (laughs) - Chandler. I did all that work for nothing. How we gonna help people if
you can't carry an Eiffel Towel worth of toilet paper? (upbeat music) This is actually our third time
giving stuff to the shelter. It's something I've been
wanting to do for a while. And I'll keep you guys updated but in 2020, I definitely
wanna open a few shelters of my own. So all that stuff we brought last time, how many people did it help? - Over 600 people just this year. You came last year, so we used off all your
stuff and probably lots more. - So over 600 families
were helped last year? - Exactly.
- So we dropped off diapers. We dropped off blankets,
we dropped off jackets, we dropped off wool socks,
diapers, paper towels, diapers, a lot of toothbrushes,
bed sheets, toothpaste. We got a lot, they should be good. We flew across America with
10,000 toys to help hospitals. Check.
(ding noise) We gave a food bank thousands of meals. Check.
(ding noise) We gave the shelter supplies
to help hundreds of families. Check.
(ding noise) We paid off people's tuition. Check.
(ding noise) Roll the checklist up, there
you go, put it in your pocket. There we go, let's do this. So you probably think
we've given away enough. Wrong, we're going to Best
Buy and giving away more. So Chris, how many
PlayStations do we want? - Eight more, just kidding,
one more, only one more. No, just one more then. - That's the last one? - Yeah, this is the last one. - Okay, that's fine. - Okay, well this is the last. That's perfect. - They ran out of PlayStations. So our tower requires PlayStation VR. Sir, are these laptops? - They are. - Can I have 'em all? - Sure, why not? - Okay, thank you. And now we're gonna celebrate the holidays by just giving PlayStations
to random people. Hey, you guys want some PlayStations? - PlayStations? - Yeah.
- Yeah. You want a PlayStation? - I would love a PlayStation. - There you go, sir. (laughs) - PlayStation. - There you go. - Thank you sir.
- All right, is that everyone in the vicinity? Let's continue to our next destination. - Thank you guys. - Yeah, appreciate it. - Christmas. - So we're here at Walmart a few days before Christmas and we
have all the PlayStations we bought. We're just gonna give
'em to random people. Do any of you want something for free? - [Man] We only have a set
number, so make a orderly line. - Just form a line. (dramatic music) - [Woman] Thank you, thank you. - We're all out. - Shout out to Mr. Beast, thank you. - Shout out to Mr. Beast. - [Man] After giving away stuff all week, we were actually pretty hungry. So we stopped at a local donut shop and ended up taking it over. Going to man the drive through, we're here to give things away. It's gonna be a minute, so here's some Nintendo Switches. Here you go. - Oh my God, Mr. Beast. - Oh, you don't have to pay for it. Just give us one minute. - Are you sure? - Yeah. Paying for donuts when I'm here, why? They were actually ready. - Oh , can you sign the box? - Are you gonna frame this box of donuts? - We're never going to eat 'em. - Yeah, here you go. Have a good day. - Thank you, Merry Christmas. - Ah, that was satisfying. Hey, did you order a dozen donuts? - Yes. - You don't have to pay for it. You want a laptop? - Sure. - Here you go. Do you want a laptop as well? - [Woman] Sure. - Do you have a friend
that needs a laptop? Sure. - Thank you. - Happy Holidays. - Thank you, Happy Holidays. No problem, here's your donuts. You don't have to worry
about paying for them. - Okay. - And then here's a free
PlayStation just cause. - Okay, thank you. - Did you order some donuts? We're giving them to
you with two Switches. - Oh.
- Merry Christmas. - Thank you.
- There you go. - [Man] It's their birthday apparently. - Oh, is it your birthday? Here's a laptop to
celebrate your birthday. Enjoy your donuts. - Do I pay for the donuts? - Oh no, don't worry
about it, you're good. - [Woman] Merry Christmas. - You too. Since you guys were so nice, we wanna give all the
employees working here $500 just for fun. - Wow. That's amazing. - Here's $500. (laughs) - Not to bother you, here's $500. - Oh. (laughs) - Here's $500. Thanks for letting us
run your drive through. - Thank you. - No problem. Here's $500. - Thank you. Hey, here's some money
too, Merry Christmas. I feel like I own this place and I don't. So I think we made an
accident, I have extra money. Can you just pay for everyone's donuts? - Hey, Merry Christmas, y'all, thank you. - [Man] You know what? I've been giving away to everyone else, I might as well help my squad. So this is our last stop for the day. You might remember, this is the store I literally bought
everything in, good times. But it's super late,
they're about to close and no one's here and we need content. I opened a stopwatch. You have until it says five minutes and I'll pay for your groceries, go. - Oh.
- Oh. - I don't have a place to stay, but okay. - [Man] Chandler, it is
that all you're getting? - I like cat litter. - I have so many cats. I have four cats. - You want this? - Yeah.
- Well too bad. - Hey muffin, hey. - Why did you get so many muffins? - Two words, fudge bars. - Wow. - Oh. - This is Ryan's weakness, he loves cats. - You need to be choosy
because your cats matter. - They do matter. Also a big info right
here, I don't have a cat. But the thing is, how do you get a cat? Cat food, exactly.
- [Man] Perfect. - Here's an entire trout.
(shark growls) - [Man] 30 seconds left. - Oh God. - Let's go. - You good?
- We did it. - Boom, I'm in. - All right And the award
for the least bought goes to these too. (goofy music) - Sea trout, I appreciate that. - [Man] You're welcome, that was me. - The ladies come over and
they see you got Kern's and sea trout. - Baby, do you want some Kern's and fish? I think she does. - You look like you just
moved outta your dorm. - I did. I absolutely did.
- Oh yeah, that's right. (sad music) - Hug the sadness out. - [Man] Is that everyone? Wow, you guys suck. And we did it. All the presents are gone. Yeah, look at the difference. It's all gone. Guys, you should feel good about yourself. We helped hundreds, maybe even like a thousand people today
who genuinely needed help. - Yay.
- Awesome sauce. - We just did a lot of good things today and we impacted a lot of
lives and I'm very happy with how this video went
and I hope you are too. So subscribe and I'll see you next time. ♪ Mr. Beast 6,000 oh ♪ ♪ Mr. Beast 6,000 yeah you know his name ♪ ♪ He changed it once or twice
but I think it's here to stay ♪ (explosion noise)