This is a vinyl record and this is a DVD. But what if, whoa, laser discs or disco vision as they were once called, used to be a very sought after video format and by some they still are. From 1979 up until the advent of the DVD in the late 90s, laser disc was the best option for experiencing high-end video in the comfort of your own home or high school science classroom and it was the dream format of movie fanatics everywhere. And this cinephile love was well-deserved. It had many of the qualities that would eventually become the key selling features of DVD and subsequently Blu-ray with twice the resolution of VHS, the ability to pause on a still frame, support for surround sound, instant chapter skipping, director's commentary and it could even do 1080i resolution in special cases near the end of its life. And it wasn't just the users. Filmmakers loved the way that laser disc made their films look and sound. It was the first format to be capable of home THX audio and it was the first format to receive the Criterion Collection, the ultimate versions of films like Blade Runner and Raging Bull. In fact, in some famous cases, it was the best format to ever receive that definitive cut of the film. Star Wars. Speaking of Star Wars, Lucasfilm even stored raw footage on these discs and used it for editing with a system that they called Edit Droid. So Return of the Jedi was on laser disc before it was even in the theater. But just how well does it hold up today? Was it replaced by DVD because of some kind of technological improvement or was it just out of cost and convenience? To find out, we spent over a thousand US dollars to buy one of the coveted few players that are still available and copies of Terminator 2 in a variety of formats to compare them and find out once and for all. Is biggest disc best disc? And what else could laser disc do? Can it play this segue to our sponsor? Do you have a hard time lifting? Then don't, let your desk do the work. FlexiSpot is an adjustable desk that can carry up to 440 pounds. The movement is so gentle and steady, you don't even feel a shake. Start flexing with FlexiSpot at the link below. Believe it or not, the concept of electron beam data storage was invented way back in the late 50s or early 60s by David Paul Gregg. It then entered a dormant state due to some patent shenanigans until ultimately MCA and Philips worked together to bring the technology to market, reusing the form factor of vinyl records which MCA was producing by the millions. Thusly, laser disc was born. It soft launched in 1978 with the release of Jaws in the Atlanta, Georgia test market and then formally launched in 1979. To label laser disc with words like success or failure would be an oversimplification in either case. It did fail to gain widespread adoption, but it succeeded at pushing home cinema forward and it succeeded at standing the test of time, maintaining its admittedly niche relevance for over 20 years. That's right. The last movies on this format were released in 2001 and Pioneer continued to manufacture players for it until 2009. Believe it or not, I have never watched a film on laser disc. My only experience with it was one of my high school teachers pulled out a player and played something for a little bit to kill some time. That's it. I've never seen a laser disc movie before, but I have used quite a few for karaoke. Oh, more on that later. Ooh, I like this setup. We've got a CRT for authenticity and then we've also got a RetroTINK 5X so that we can watch it on the bigger screen. I love how much every time we pull out a CRT, we're like, oh, I miss CRT. It just looks better on there. CRTs are so great as soon as you become that age where you no longer hear the whine. Can I just say at this point, before we've even done the side by side, this knocks the ever loving snot out of VHS for image quality. That looks great. If TVs never got as big as they are today, I don't see how realistically we would need higher resolution than this. Like it's retina. It's really sharp. Let's show off another cool laser disc feature by skipping to the next chapter. What? It's pretty quick. Yeah. It's not bad. It's not instantaneous. You can hear the laser moving, but it's fast enough where comparing it to fast forwarding, it's night and day. I'm gonna be the one to say it. His pecs look great. To be clear, by modern standards, this is not high resolution. We're talking 425 to 440 TV lines depending on the region, but it was uncompressed. And by comparison, VHS was only 240 TV lines. So this was closer to DVD grade image quality, but more than 15 years earlier. It's possibly even better picture quality than DVD because color banding doesn't happen on laser disc. We have a VHS player and a copy of the same film on VHS. We're gonna look at that later, but first let's experience just a little bit more glorious disc based movie goodness. Ah, will that move ever not be cool? I don't think it ever can be. I'm gonna sit on the floor because that's what we used to do back when CRT TVs were smalls. We'd just sit closer to the TV. I never did that because it was bad for your eyes. That's what our mothers and fathers told us. They meant well, but baby boomers don't know everything it turns out. Unfortunately, we don't have a great sound setup today, just the speakers built into our TV, but audio was another major advantage of the platform. Laser disc supported multiple audio tracks and it was the first format to support digitally encoded surround sound at home. They even went so far as to create an ad with Ray Charles. The really wild part is that what we're experiencing right now is far from laser discs final form. As a standard that persisted for over 20 years, it actually changed a lot over its lifespan. In 1986, the BBC released their Domesday project, which was sort of a census of the UK and the data was only viewable on a BBC master AIV system, which included a Phillips LV ROM drive that couldn't play movies, but it could read data only laser discs. Few other uses of LV ROM are publicly known. In 1987, Pioneer released the first player that could also play CD video, not to be confused with video CD, which was an all digital format that came in 1993. CD video could hold five minutes of video and 20 minutes of extra audio. Then in 1990, adding further confusion, video single disc came along, which was a laser disc the size of a CD. These often contained single songs or short musical performances because they had room for only five minutes of video with the accompanying audio and no extra audio. It was released only in Japan with the exception of one promotional disc in the US that was included with the earliest release of Terminator 2. Then by the early 1990s, every player on the market could also play audio CDs, a format that went from zero to complete dominance within the lifespan of laser disc. Though once again, laser disc was low key way ahead of the curve and state of the art players could play Dolby digital surround sound starting with the 1992 release of Batman Returns. Several arcade systems like the Taito D3BOS released in 1991 using laser disc for high quality interactive video titles. And in 1994, remember this is still three years before DVD would bring 480p resolution to the mainstream. Laser disc became capable of HD playback with the release of high vision in Japan. Now it was only 1,035 lines instead of 1080 and it was interlaced, so 1035i, but who cares? It was HD in 1994. That is six years before the first US HD broadcast which was the Super Bowl in January of 2000. Why don't we have one of those? They're rarery expensive. I get it, rarery expensive. Cause there's not many of them. In a way that's kind of a great summary of laser discs problems, or at least part of them. While the barrier to entry for a low end laser disc machine was certainly higher than a low end VCR, it wasn't that out of line with mid range VHS players and the discs themselves were actually cheaper in some cases. Yeah, by the early 1990s, they typically went for 25 to $30 MSRP, which is significantly less than the 85 to $100 that rental tapes would when they hit the market around that same time. But this was not necessarily the case for production. With the European Laser Disc Association president R. Salters noting in 1992 that duplicating tape is very, very cheap. Whereas the pressing process of disc is 10 to $12, a totally different ballpark. If his price is accurate, that's a huge disadvantage compared to tape cause what was a blank VHS or beta worth at that time? It was $5 for four and a half or six hours of recording time. And that was retail, what we could buy at the store. With that said, pricing is almost a sidebar discussion here. The real culprit for laser disc status as a niche format probably lies in one key benefit that VHS enjoyed over laser disc and even DVD for most of its life. The ability to record TV. Before the VCR, TV had to be watched while it was airing. The Ed Sullivan Show, for example, ran for more than a thousand episodes frequently to an audience of tens of millions. But many of those episodes, including the first one, are considered lost media today because the station either lost or didn't save the original recordings and nobody had the ability to record at home. By comparison, commodity VHS players had built-in clocks. Not so you could see what time it was during movie night, but so you could schedule the recording of your favorite shows so you could watch them back later, usually skipping the commercials. Oh yeah, and because the recorders were ubiquitous, everyone knew somebody who was into bootlegging VHS. So it was often super cheap to pick up movies and pay-per-view programs on tape. The other culprit for laser disc's lack of adoption might have to do with its target demographic. Toward the end of its lifespan, as VHS prices fell, laser disc costs stayed high because it was treated by the studios as a niche format for filmmakers and enthusiasts, and they differentiated it not just by the quality, but through the production of special editions made with higher quality masters, extra deleted scenes, or inserts or commentary tracks. The 1989 movie, War of the Roses, for example, cost 69.98 at release for the special edition, though it did include Danny DeVito commentary, which I think we can all agree makes just about anything better. Still kills me that this is what won the format war, especially when you factor in why. All right, let's do the side-by-side. Oh wow, this is terrible. There is a lot of artifacts going across the screen. It's a funny thing because I look at this and I go, ew, that is disgustingly analog. But laser disc is also analog, which we'll talk about a little bit later. It's just way better analog. In fairness to VHS, this is obviously a very old tape and- It's also a very old player. Oh wow, yeah, the flame. The fire's not even yellow. Contrary to what the marketing would have you believe, fast forward, it's not that fast. This is what, maybe 3x speed? Might even be 2x. This is slow enough where if I put a YouTube video on this speed, I could still understand what was happening. Oh, this is the part you wanted to see, right? I wanted to see this, yeah. Oh, sorry. Oh man. It was a skill to be able to press the play button right at the moment where the momentum would stop right in time to hit the spot that you wanted to play from. Can you imagine being a film buff and going over to somebody else's house and not knowing how to use a VCR because all you've done is LaserDisc? Still cool. Wow. I didn't think my impression of VHS could get worse. And then I saw this. And the LaserDisc advantages keep coming. One of the reasons that we can't really get into image quality analysis is that as long as you have a supported player in disc, LaserDisc does frame by frame playback, but VHS does not. It's also far less susceptible to degradation due to heat and humidity. So it wouldn't really be fair, given that these are probably still in perfect shape. Though it should be noted that they could warp in heat like any plastic disc-based storage medium, and they were very susceptible to accidental damage from children. Please don't do that. Discs cleaned with isopropyl alcohol would often turn cloudy and even if you didn't mistreat your discs, if you got unlucky, there is the potential for disc rot to occur over time. Though this seems to be limited to discs that were pressed in certain factories, notably Sony DADC. The LaserDisc database has a running list of affected releases, including notably Batman Returns from 1992. They also had some other issues. You don't have to rewind advantage LaserDisc, but you do have to get up in the middle of your film to flip the disc. That is a real bummer. And making matters worse, for movies longer than two hours, you could be getting up not once, but up to three times to both flip and then change discs. Now I see why this didn't take off, or did it? There was a place where LaserDisc found a surprisingly strong footing, the Japan Southeast Asia region. And we can't say exactly why it became popular there, but we can say that there is one feature that gets used a lot more there than in the West, multiple audio tracks. In markets with a lot of cross language cinema, this was a major benefit of LaserDisc, but it can't be the whole story, can it? Why not also Europe or South America? Well, because it wasn't just movies that were being purchased on LaserDisc in Asia. Karaoke had spread rapidly across the continent in the 70s, and karaoke LaserDiscs could include vocals on a separate audio stream from the backing track, which is obviously kind of a big deal. It also supported in-band closed captioning, so lyrics could be toggled as they weren't burned into the analog video, and Billboard Magazine noted in 1992 that 40% of Japanese LaserDisc sales were actually karaoke titles, with there being roughly the same number of karaoke discs available as there were movie releases. So it was a perfect storm then of useful features coupled with that resilience against high heat, high humidity environments. You know what else is super resilient in challenging environments? The new stubby and multicolored screwdrivers from lttstore.com. Do we have a karaoke disc? We don't have a karaoke disc today. What we do have is a couple of different movies with director's commentary, and a Hong Kong release of Sailor Moon, which includes Cantonese and Japanese audio. Oh, it's gonna have to be that. This makes me very uncomfortable removing these from the sleeves. Yeah, that, two person job. Luckily, LaserDisc has a super cool feature, or not feature so much as a quirk, in that because it's an analog recording, like a record, you can actually see the grooves that are etched into the disc. It's not just pure shiny like a CD, so clearly this is the side with the content. Oh, that's hilarious. That's why I could see something on it, because it does have video. It just has a video of, there's no program material here. This is very unintuitive. Program material is recorded on the other side of this LaserDisc. Is the reader on the top like a record? Is the, hold on, now I need to know. Is the laser on top or bottom? It's gotta be on the bottom, there's no way. Okay, there is a way. I mean, there were dual-sided players, so you didn't have to, we don't have that though. What I wanna know is how quick and smooth it is to change the track. CX seems to be an audio cleanup feature that is separate from the digital analog switch that I'm doing that on this particular disc also seems to switch languages. So CX isn't doing anything in this case. It's a simple toggle switch. Very convenient is the answer. Yeah. One button. And it's seamless. Like honestly, this is better than on a Blu-ray. It really is. This is the best multi-language experience I've seen. Pretty cool. Coming back to North America for a moment though, if LaserDisc faced all of these headwinds, what was it that made DVD and Blu-ray ultimately succeed where LD failed? The adoption of higher resolution displays and the rise of home theater surely played a part, but the real wave for home adoption of each of those formats came from an often forgotten line of Sony devices called PlayStations. Owners of PS2s and PS3s suddenly had players for DVD and Blu-ray respectively, whether they had intended to or not. So why didn't LaserDisc ever integrate gaming? Ah, it did. Pioneer actually tried a similar approach, though not until the early 90s. And in fact, our very player has a swappable expansion pack that turns the unit into a fully functional, region-free Sega Genesis. And on top of being able to play standard cartridges, it could also play Sega CD and the infrequently used Mega LD. That's right, there's LaserDisc Sega Genesis games. And we've got one. Oh, wow. So it is basically just a Sega Genesis. Okay. Pack port. Whoa, no way! Laser active. I mean, future, obviously, because that's where we're living. We are about to experience something really cool. Whoops. Okay, just a second. Did I just go flying off the track? Continue. That was it? Game over start again? You can actually hear the disc spinning faster as I speed up and the playback of the full motion video background goes faster. This is because despite the physical similarities to CDs and DVDs, the actual video storage on a LaserDisc is analog. And you can really see this if you look closely at it next to a vinyl record. They've both got this kind of rings of Saturn effect. That's because we're not looking at little micro-sized peaks and valleys that represent ones and zeros that get decoded to a file. We were looking at variable sized peaks and valleys that translate to an analog wave form, which is wild, crazy cool, but a major disadvantage when it comes to storage density. On constant angular velocity LaserDiscs, one revolution of the disc, which happens at a fixed speed, 1800 RPM is one frame video. That means that the storage density of the outer edges was atrocious. This is one frame and also this is one frame. And to reduce crosstalk, you can only fit about 54,000 of these frames per side. That translates to about 30 minutes at 30 frames per second. Or I guess you could play it back for longer if like you saw the video is playing back slower and the disc is revolving slower. Though of course movies would have no need to vary the speed of the player or would they? Most films actually shipped using CLV or constant linear velocity where the storage density would be the same across the entire surface, which allows each disc to store an hour of video per side. But there were some disadvantages to this approach. It did make the player design more complex because now the rotational speed of the disc had to change depending on which part the laser was reading from. The final way that movies were stored is constant angular acceleration, which is kind of a merger of the other two, where instead of running at a different speed for every single line, like CLV, multiple lines were grouped into bands that would be read at one RPM each, even though it came at the cost of a little bit of storage density at the outermost of each of these groupings. If your brain hasn't exploded already, adding more confusion to this is that some films shipped with mostly CLV, but CAV for some parts so that the climax or the extra features could be better enjoyed. As far as I can tell, that was mostly just marketing because there was no image quality difference, and I think it was more to do with that if there's only 20 minutes left in the film once you've switched to the last disc, well, whatever. They might as well just use the less efficient storage method. Enough about disc media for the moment. Let's put a cartridge in this thing. Oh, hello? Oh, wow, that is kind of ill-fitting. All right, let's see if we can upset that heartbreaking final. Come on, Cliff Ronning, let's go. Oh, it's Bureian! He, ah, that was not a good move, Bure. Jeff Kornel, though, big slap shot! Ah, terrible. Oh, goodness. Oh, goodness, oh, goodness. Just about put it in my own net. What the hell is the shoot button? I can't figure out how to shoot the puck. Oh, it's C. Wow, we made it through an entire period. I don't think I got a single shot on goal. Goalie gets stuck on that side of the net. No, okay, interesting. Seriously, my own guy, my own guy gets it. You know what, forget it, it doesn't matter. Frustration aside, this could have been great for adoption of LaserDisc, like what the PlayStation family did for DVD and Blu-ray, but only if the price was right. The issue is that those PlayStation consoles were $300 and $500 at launch. This mama-jama? Nearly $1,000, and the Genesis pack was another $600, which is a little confusing to me. I mean, a Sega Genesis at launch was $170. A Sega CD was another 300. A decently capable LaserDisc player could be bought for $400. How did the price double in there somewhere? If this whole package had hit the market with more of a PS3 price, we might've seen much wider adoption of not only LaserDisc, but perhaps the Genesis as well, or not, who knows. But you know who knows about segues? Our sponsor. As someone who likes to flex, I need to show you this E7 Pro desk from FlexiSpot. Not only is the height adjustable for your comfort and health, whether you are working or working, but it's so stable that you can sleep on it. But being strong and useful isn't enough. The desk is also crafted with quality materials and looks really nice. And you get to choose different tops and frames to fit your needs. Maria, our thumbnail artist, has been using E7 Pro for months. I love that it's very sturdy. I love the quality. And it looks awesome with my other desk. See, I didn't make her say that. Plus, for E7 Pro model, they have 15 years warranty for mechanical parts and component. Now go to flexispot.com and customize the desk you like and go flex on all of your friends. If you guys enjoyed this video, why not check out the time we bought HD movies on VHS? My mind was absolutely kaboosht. Boom, counts, nope, all right. Dang it, okay. One more, one more play. And we gotta keep going, Linus. Now this video's over.