- As one of the Internet's
most prominent style icons, AirPods? More like poverty pods. Abyss? Ew, where's the Gucci logo? But Louis Vuitton your phones. Ooh, my wallet senses are tingling. At $1200, I can rest
assured that if I buy these, not only will I be getting
the best of the best, but I'll know that I am the
best of the best, right? - They specialize in cutting up leather and sewing it together. What exactly makes you think
that any of that translates to designing electronics? - Oh, shut up poor Linus,
you're just jealous. - Jealous? You're jealous of me and
my segues to our sponsors. Today's video is brought
to you by CASETiFY. CASETiFY's impact and ultra impact, partially recycled cases
offer drop protection, a variety of designs, and even have an anti-microbial coating. Save 15% on your order @casetify.com/LTT. (upbeat music) Like most of you, I'm skeptical that the
LV Horizon earphones can live up to both their lofty price tag and the bold claims on their product page. But let's give them a chance. Okay? Right out of the gate, you have to give credit where it's due. When you buy something this expensive, you expect an experience from the moment that you open the box and Louis Vuitton delivers. The outer box opens to reveal... Wait, is this real leather? Got to admit, that's pretty extra. You unzip your little luggage and woo, wow, this charging case is quite the statement. The earphones themselves
are beautifully displayed through a sapphire glass top bearing the iconic Louis Vuitton
monogram around the crown, the body is made of this sandblasted steel that has a reassuringly,
expensive feeling weight to it and it features what feels like a basically
seamless ceramic bottom for wireless heat charging. If your top priority, is making sure that everyone knows what brand of your phones you bought, then boy, howdy did you ever
come to the right place. The lid opens with a
satisfying springiness and closes with a nice clack or at least it did. After only a few days of gentle use, the case now has kind of a grainy and looseness to the hinge that frankly speaking, feels
more H and M than Louie V and for all its external niceness, the plastic on top where the
earphones actually reside where you're kind of like, fumbling and putting them in was so easily scratched by my
gorgeous painted fingernails that it made it look
all scuffed and abused after just two weeks. Thankfully the same is not
true of the headphones, which still look exactly as luxurious as the day my assistant
wired them the money. As for whether the luxurious
look transfers to the owner, well, I'll let you guys, be the judge of that. (camera shuttering) Gorgeous baby, but I'm more concerned
with how they function. In terms of features, they have everything that
you'd expect from a pair of premium, true wireless earphones. Bluetooth 5.0, active noise canceling and proximity sensors
for auto pause and play. And I gotta be honest with you guys, I love the interface. There are physical
buttons on both earphones that you press down from the top, which is way better than
inconsistent touch controls or buttons that cause
you to mash the earphones ever deeper into your ear canal. The right one has a single button for pause, play and change tracks and the left has two
buttons for volume control. Thank you LV for not forcing me to engage
with the voice assistant, just to change the volume of my music. You can also use these buttons to toggle between active noise cancellation
and transparency mode. As for how they sound however, truthfully, they're mediocre at best. They feature a strong
V-shaped sound signature and while the highs do have nice detail without crossing into harsh territory, the base is an absolute ruddy mess, I believe is the term for it. Very low frequencies get boosted so much more than the mid base, that low instruments that sit above the thump of the kick drum get completely lost in the mix and if there's a baseline that
moves up and down the neck, it becomes really distracting how much that instrument
can vary in volume. So if you're someone coming
from a mid forward headphone, like Apple's AirPods pro, you may find your music
sounding a little bit hollow and this trend continues
looking at the quality of the Horizon's active noise cancellation. It's serviceable, aided significantly by
the strong noise isolation of their in ear canal design, but it falls really flat compared to the competent Galaxy Buds Pro and the excellent AirPods Pro. Both of which and I can't believe I'm saying this, are cheap in comparison. Thankfully, the ANC
isn't unpleasant to use. Like I didn't get a
strong pressure sensation on my eardrums, but there is a noticeable
background hiss when it's active and it also didn't manage to do much to minimize constant background noises like an airplane engine or a GPU fan, let alone a maniac on a rooftop, screaming about the incredible
products at lttstore.com. The headphones feature Qualcomm app decks for low-latency content consumption and mobile gaming though, how much content you'll want to consume is tough to say because they're really that comfortable. Even with the smallest ear tips, you've got to really
push these into your ears to get a good seal. Though again, credit where it's due, their claims of long battery life, appear to hold water. I fell asleep wearing them
on my flight to Tel Aviv, and I woke up pleased to
find out that they were, A, still running hours later and B, that my ears didn't hurt though I never forget that I'm wearing them like I do with my Daily
Driver AirPods Pros. Oh, excuse me. My quality is decent, but I got to say it
falls apart a little bit if you're surrounded by noise or traffic. (loud screeching) With that said, nobody chooses the Horizons for any of the stuff
that I just talked about. Even for shoppers in this price band, they could never justify how much these cost based
on how they perform. You can only justify their cost based on how they make you feel. So let's get back to the packaging. The box is huge and we've actually only explored half of it. I'm sure for $1200 they've got all kinds of little
premium goodies in here. We've got a braided USB C to C cable, along with an A to C adapter and what appears to be a leather cable tie, classy, cotton baggy full of bits and bottles, with some extra ear tips, we've got some extra ear wings and each in individual plastic packages? Wait, that's it? Why is this box so big? I mean, here's a box for AirPods Pros, (loud banging) here's a box for an iPhone
13 now with 100% less charger and this is the box for the Horizon earphones. This is a problem. At lttstore.com, we've put significant time
into making our packaging more sustainable and to see LVMH, a multi $100 billion corporation claim on their website that this is somehow eco-friendly, it's frustrating. I mean it does appear to be
mostly made of cardboard, which is good, but it also comes with a leather case that serves no purpose other than to slow down your access
to your earphones, not one but two of these
non-recyclable cotton bags and unnecessary plastic waste in a massive box filled
with mostly empty space, meaning that when you ship
a crate of these things, you're shipping mostly air. I'm not saying it's the worst
packaging we've ever seen, not even by a long shot, or I'm not even saying
that we're so much better to be very clear, I'm just saying that
calling this eco-friendly is disingenuous greenwashing and they need to stop fronting and that's kind of the main
issue with this product. It's all fronting. Louis Vuitton wants you
to think that this product is better than it is so that people who want to look and feel richer than they are, can spend exactly 472%
more than these are worth. How did we come to that
figure you might ask? By dividing $1180 over $250 The price of these, the Master and Dynamic
MWO7 plus earphones. Why these ones? Hmm, let me think. The shape, identical, the sound, identical, the controls, identical, the materials, features, accessories, identical, identical, identical, the case, different. Also the design on the earbuds themselves is a little bit nicer in my opinion and the packaging is far more reasonable. So Louis Vuitton is
charging you about $900 for their admittedly nice carrying case and their design work here, and a little leather
pouch with a zipper on it. Though that's not really
that strange actually, is it? What is strange is that Master and Dynamic are a reputable headphone brand, known for their quality products and yet their name is
absolutely nowhere to be found on the Horizon earphones. Nowhere on the product,
packaging or website do they even hint at the
partnership like you might see with LG'S with Meridian or Samsung's sound by Samsung, excuse me, I mean AKG. Maybe they don't want to confuse
their potential customers. I mean, I'd be confused
if I was spending $1200 on 18 grams of goods and
getting something other than solid 24 karat gold. To be clear, I don't have a problem paying
more for high quality stuff. That's totally okay. I bought cinema cameras back in the day to elevate our content
for $50,000 a piece. There's a reason that LTT products aren't as cheap as a lot of other merch, I care about quality and
I care about longevity. I just also care about value and these earbuds, they're going to be so worthless in a couple of years
when their battery dies, that they will almost
certainly end up in a landfill at that point. So while I will not go as far as to say, never buy anything from
Louis Vuitton, it's stupid, I will say that if you really want to buy something from Louis Vuitton, buy a bag or a watch, something that could last
you a long time conceivably, that you could pass down
to your spoiled children or at least resell later or better yet actually just don't and buy something sensible, like for our sponsor, Privacy. Holiday shopping is well underway and privacy.com is here to help. With the growth of technology and the increase of online fraud, keeping your banking
information safe and secure is becoming more of a concern and privacy.com lets you shop online with virtual credit cards that offer way more security and control than conventional cards. You won't have to worry
about being billed twice for a subscription service, getting upgraded to something
without your consent or having to change your
credit card information in the event of a data breach. Privacy.com also allows
you to set spending limits so you can take control of your finances and stick to your gift budgets. Their free service
offers you up to 12 cards and by upgrading to pro, you'll be able to get 36 cards, more security features and 1% cash back. As a special bonus, if you sign up today,
you'll get five bucks. So check it out today at privacy.com/linus that's privacy.com/linus. If you guys enjoyed this take down of an overpriced audio product, maybe you'll enjoy our Streets by 50 Stormtrooper edition video. I think that's the last time I dunked this hard on
something this unnecessary. Vuitton.