So I'm going to tell you about the goat problem, 
yeah? It's maybe- it's not the greatest of all   time but it's, you know, it's good enough, we'll 
do it, it's all right. This is kind of like a   school kind of problem but it's actually hard 
to solve. For a long time we did- we only had   an approximation of the answer, until recently. 
And we actually for the first time have an exact   answer to the goat problem. So let me tell 
you what it is - it does involve a goat. So   you've got like a fence going around a circular 
field. And you have tethered a goat to the fence,   so to the side of that circle. So this is some 
sort of rope of length - what do we call this?   Length r. So the field has a radius of 1 - why not 
- and now we're going to tether a goat to the side   of the field and let's say the rope has length r, 
okay, let's- there you go let's do a little goat. (Brady: That is confusing that we made it r.)
- Well yeah it's kind of r because if you look   at where the goat can reach it's kind of a radius 
of a circle. So this is where the goat can graze. So this is a fixed point where you've tethered 
the goat; the goat can now roam as freely as that   tether will let him and so he can graze on the 
field. And they question in the goat problem is:   how long should the rope be if you want the goat 
to graze on half the field? And that feels like   something you might be able to solve maybe with 
school level maths - you can get quite far with   school level maths. Let's see how far we can get.
- (It feels easy)  - Yeah, it feels easy. And this is why people 
are so frustrated when you tell them this   problem. I'll tell you what, I gather this is a 
problem that they used to teach a lot in U.S Navy   academies. I don't know if they're teaching this 
as an example of being used to difficult problems;   because they would teach this in these navy 
academies and they would say - and you can   do this - there's no exact answer. 
And people were frustrated and go,   surely this must have a exact answer, but no 
exact answer was found until recently, and   it involved some hard maths. - (How old is school 
student attack this problem?) So let's do another   circle. Let's make that the centre of the field 
- do a little x at the centre of the field - and   let's say my goat can eat some sort of circular 
area like this, something like that. So my goat   can reach all the way to the fence here, and my 
goat could reach all the way to the fence here,   and then he can eat all this kind of curve here. 
So it's a fraction of a circle with a radius of r.   This angle here that I've just made, let's give it 
a name, alpha. I'll use alpha for the angle, okay,   quite good, it's a good name for for an angle.
- (Good grassy number; grassy,) (alpha- alfalfa.)
- You think alpha is grassy?  - (Alfalfa, yeah, it seems- I don't know.)
So, this is how you would start to calculate   this with a bit of trick- I'm not going to go 
through all the details of the trick because   it's boring. So what is the area of the field? 
Well it's a circular field, it has a radius of 1,   so you use your traditional formula for working 
out the area of a circle. And the field is going   to have an area of pi. But we want the 
goat to eat half the field, so pi over 2.  Happy with that?
- (Okay, pi over 2   is what the goat- we want the goat to have.)
- Yeah, exactly. (Alright, now you've given us   his eating- well some of his eating area there.)
- Yeah so this is some of his eating area   isn't it? I've kind of missed off some bits here, 
I'll come to that as well. So what I'm going to do   is a little bit of school level trig; so when 
I say trig I mean, you know, it's angles and   signs and cos's and triangles and things like 
that. The length of the rope is going to be   2cos and then it's alpha over 2, it's half of 
this angle here. But I've kind of- doesn't help   me work out the length of the rope, that's what 
I'm trying to work out, because now I've just   sort of change the problem because I need to work 
out what the angle is. Okay, so that's what we're   doing next. So that part is not so hard. Working 
out the angle is where it starts to get hard,   okay. So if you calculate this, what we can 
calculate is alpha is a fraction of a full   circle so I know that this area here is a fraction 
of a full circle of radius r. I can also work out   if I start at the centre here a different circle, 
because I've missed off these bits here, so let's   try and get those back. This is a fraction of a 
circle with a radius 1 and so we could talk about   this angle and we could work out- if I worked out 
at that angle it's going to be related to alpha   so I'm not going to do all those calculations. But 
we can work out this fraction of a circle as well   and then add it together and then we've got this 
area; but oh no wait, hang on, this diamond shape   that I've got here - can you see it's overlapped? So 
I've got an overlap, kind of like two triangles and   it's all overlapping. You remove the overlap and 
then you've got the area the goat has eaten. I've   not gone through the trig details because we 
would just be here looking at sins and cos's   for a long time. But this is what you would get: pi 
plus alpha - so that's our angle - cos of alpha minus   sin of alpha. That's the area that the goat 
is eating - hopefully you can see why I didn't   go through all the details because it's actually 
quite a nasty calculation to do. What we're going   to get then if we solve this is we're going to 
find the angle alpha. And then that's okay because   I have a formula for the length of the rope there, 
that's where we come- we fill- we do one last step   and then we'll get that length of the rope. So it's  
actually calculating that angle that's important   for us for now. And we want this area that the 
goat is eating to be half the field; and half   the field is pi over 2. So we set this equal to pi 
over 2. We're trying to solve this equation; it's   not a particularly nice equation, it's trig and 
in fact this is difficult to calculate because   it's called a transcendental equation. So it 
sounds like a nice name but it's a difficult   kind of equation to solve. A nice equation to solve 
is what we call a polynomial, and that's the kind   of things you get where you have x squared plus x 
minus 6 - those kind of things. They're quite easy   to solve and when you do you get an exact answer 
at the end so I can then say x is equal to - and I   could write something down. It might have square 
roots and horrible things in it but I can give   you an exact answer. For a transcendental equation 
I'm afraid there is no method for giving you an   exact answer; the only way to solve it - and it's the 
angle we're trying to solve - is approximations. It's   the only way to solve it. And so that has been done, 
so we have an approximate answer for that angle. So   we're getting closer and the approximate answer is 
it's about 109 degrees plus some decimals. It's 109   degrees point 1885- something something something. And we're not 
quite finished the goat problem because I want to   know the length of the rope. And then really the 
last step is the easy step, yes the easy bit   of trig showed us that the length of the rope 
should be 2 cos alpha over 2; and that's going to   be - and again it's only an approximate answer - but 
it is this answer: 1.15872847301...   (So just longer than the radius of the field?)
- So it is- yeah it's a little bit longer than the radius   of the field. I would have expected- if you asked 
me to guess I would have gone um root 2, square   root of 2, something like that. That's what the answer
expected it to be. I think that's where some people   get frustrated with this because they want it to 
be an answer like that; but it's not what we've   got. And there is - well until recently - there is no 
exact answer, it's that dot dot dot that shows you   it's not exact. It's a decimal, goes on forever, and 
yes. I mean we've got an equal sign, but equal dot   dot dot. We can make this more accurate, you know, 
you can make better approximations but I could   never tell you like an exact answer, like a little 
equation or a little formula telling you what the   length of this rope is. What's surprising about 
that problem, why it's surprisingly hard is because the   3-dimensional version of it is easier. The 
3-dimensional version is a bird in a cage.   Imagine having a spherical cage of radius 1 
and you've got a bird tied with a thread and then   that bird can then fly wherever it's allowed to fly 
limited by that thread. So it can fly around; what   does the length of the thread need to be to be 
half the volume of the sphere? That should be a   harder question - it turns out to be easier. Umm yeah 
you can actually solve it. Here's the answer: the   equation you get to solve is something like this, 
it's 3r to power 4 minus 8r cubed   plus 8 equals zero. I mean it's a traditional 
mathematical equation, it's a polynomial. And if   it's a polynomial that will have an exact answer. 
It might have square roots in it; it might look   a bit nasty but it will have an exact answer. 
In fact when this was solved - Marshall Fraser   was a mathematician who solved this - he did 
give an approximation for this answer. His   approximation was that thread was 1.228545 and then something something something. So he did originally give an 
approximation. But a few years ago   um an exact answer was given and this is kind 
of nice for me, it was a couple of friends of   mine who did it, so this is nice I get to give 
them a shout-out. This is Nick and Graham Jameson;   actually Graham was my lecturer at university, and 
Nick is my friend for other reasons. So hey hey   guys, this is really nice. And they actually worked 
out the exact answer for the bird version of the   goat problem and it's this monster - all right, you 
ready? And it is a monster, so are you ready?   (I'm ready)
- My friends actually broke it down into two 
parts because it's such a difficult thing to write   down. They define something called a and this is 
a horrible thing as well; so a is 16 over 9 plus   4 over 3 and inside a couple of brackets we've 
got 4 plus square root of 8 cube rooted   and then we add on another bracket here which is 
going to be 4 minus square root of 8 in a   bracket and we're going to cube root that as well. 
And then that's just halfway there, because then   their length of the rope thread for the bird was 
going to be 2/3 plus a half of square root of a, that's where that a comes in, minus and then we've 
got another horrible thing, another square root   of 16 thirds minus a - wow - plus 128 over 27 and 
a square root of a down there as well. Whoa - it's   ridiculous isn't it? It's outrageous but it is an 
actual exact answer to this problem. 
- (So I could) (write that down as a decimal number?)
- You could write that down as a decimal number but- I mean   that's what Marshall Fraser did; he didn't want 
to calculate that outrageous expression so he said   well, I'll just approximate it and maybe that's 
kind of more useful in some situations. But in   this case, this is a solvable problem. Umm actually 
in higher dimensions it gets easier; if you keep   going up into the dimensions - 4 dimensions, 
5 dimensions so on - the Goat Problem, the   length of the rope, starts to tend to an answer 
and it tends to 1.41421... Oh it's the square root of 2. It's- 
it actually tends to the square root of 2, so it   actually gets easier somehow as you're going to 
higher and higher dimensions. And I would have   expected the answer to be square root of 2,  
just intuitively that would be my guess. Square   root of 2 feels right to me - maybe that's just me 
but it just feels right. But it's the 2-dimensional   one that caused all the problems. It's just really 
really hard to solve - uh well until recently, we now   have an exact answer. This has finally been solved, 
it's been solved by a German mathematician called   Ingo Ullisch; and to solve it he actually had to use 
some higher level maths. He used complex analysis   so he calculated- that uses complex numbers. And he 
calculated the areas using functions in complex   numbers, they were like sin functions and cos 
functions, but now they're using complex numbers   instead of the regular numbers. And worked out 
the area using this kind of maths and he found   an exact answer; he found that he found the exact 
answer for that angle alpha. Once you've got that   then you can stick it into the formula we had 
before. And it looks like this: so our angle alpha,   that's what we wanted to know. It's an integral, 
it's a complex integral, that's what that symbol   means. And we're going to evaluate this - when we do 
evaluate it - at z is a variable and oh what we've   got is going to be z minus 3 pi over 8 equals to 
pi over 4. This is where you evaluate it and   then this is the function; it's z divided by the 
sin of z minus z cos of z minus pi over 2. Put   that in a bracket and let's integrate that; that's 
the dz, that's how you do that kind of thing. And   we're dividing by another integral which is kind 
of similar - it's outrageous isn't it? But   it's an exact answer; I mean for the first time 
we've got alpha equals a formula.
- (And how long's the rope?) And how long's the rope? I mean I'm just 
going to go back to our approximation because it   was easier to work out, which was what I said 
earlier which was 1.158. 
- (So it gets pretty much the)   (same it's just now-)
- Oh it is the same, it is the 
same. In fact I will tell you this, it's really nice   to have an exact answer - I mean a formula for the 
first time. Although this formula is hard to work   out and if you wanted to work it out you'd be 
better off approximating the values anyway. So   it's still calculated by approximations. But hey 
we've got the first formula for the angle alpha!   (So you would then put that into-)
- You then take that alpha, put it straight into the formula that   we had with our trig. So the trig is still there uh as our final step.
- (And that- and that's just)  (going to change the length by like a billionth of 
a nanometer sort of thing?)
- I have no idea. Because I don't think   it's actually been calculated because it's hard.  (So we know the exact number but no one would probably bother calculating it. You couldn't put that into Wolfram Alpha?) I don't think we can- even Wolfram Alpha I think would struggle to calculate this answer. 
- (Why did this mathematician do this? Why)  (did he spend his time just because-)
- I don't want to speak for him but I can guess if you want? I mean   it is an exercise in his methods in mathematics. 
It's- it's practice. And then, you know, this is   not an important problem uh but it is um a way to 
practice, you know, your tools. And then you can use   that practice one day in the future for problems 
you do care about.   Okay, here's a puzzle for you: it involves rotating a die, using the numbers 
on the face, and moving it around this board.   It's the latest brain bender from Jane Street, 
today's episode sponsor, and to check out the   details have a look at their website. There's a 
nice clear explanation there and you'll also find   a wall of fame for people who have already cracked 
the puzzle - maybe your name could be added. See the   link on screen and in the video description. And 
while you're there why not check out some of the   latest jobs and opportunities and things going 
on at Jane Street. They've got officers in the likes   of New York, Hong Kong, and London - a career at Jane 
Street could be just the thing for someone with a   puzzle solving mind like you. 
- ...every row column 
and the diagonals, I also want them to include   a club, a heart, a spade and a diamond.
- It's like a Sudoku. 
- It is like a Sudoku! So try it out, it should   be the same kind of thing as a Sudoku. There 
is a solution I'm not trying to catch you out.