(monitor clattering) - Wow, that is a strong magnet. (box sliding) In case you didn't know, my name is Linus. Yep, HP sponsored today's video and part of the requirements are that I need to introduce myself so (crew member laughing) hi. (chuckles) Now, for the much less awkward part. HP's got a new two-in-one
laptop tablet hybrid that looks absolutely fantastic if you've been looking to
replace your at-home device with something a little more (cardboard clattering) versatile. (cardboard clattering) Short battery life got you down? Well, this could be the solution. We've got a power cable, power adapter with a nice sort of fabric
style braided cable, and perhaps most importantly, a really interesting trick up the sleeve of the HP Elite Folio. Let's take a look at what makes
it stand out from the crowd. (upbeat music) We've been seeing more and
more ARM-based windows devices recently, and even more on the way as the software support improves. And this guy here is no exception. Now, your configuration may vary depending on where you get yours from and what options you choose, but we've got a Qualcomm
Snapdragon 8CX Gen 2 processor running between 1.8 and 3.15 gigahertz, 16 Gigs of RAM, and a 256 Gig
NVMe SSD for rapid boot times. It's a bit dear costing
a little under two grand but like I said before, this
video is sponsored by HP. So, obviously, we're gonna get to the part where we justify the cost, later. First, gaming performance. Now, obviously, this was designed more for videoconferencing, making
annotations to documents and designs. I mean, particularly the fact
that it has built in stylus with an actual place to freaking store it. I mean, how crazy does it make you when you see a product with
a stylus and it's like, yeah, you're just gonna have
to keep the stylus in the, I don't know, the backpack that you now also have
to carry around with you instead of just having a
convenient place to tuck it that's built right into
the product magnetically. That's freaking awesome. It's great for browsing the web or getting work done at home or on the go. But, you know guys, we're Linus Tech Tips, so, obviously, we were
gonna try to game on it. Rocket league, yeah,
that didn't launch it all and that's gonna be the case
with most hardcore games. But we did manage to
get some lighter titles, like Stardew Valley and
Graveyard Keeper running. And I am gonna try
Graveyard Keeper right now. This is awesome. This is
like actually working. Go figure right? On a
mobile GPU effectively. I mean, obviously, this is not like the world's
most graphically intensive game or anything like that but the story here is
that like it works, right? So when you're on a plane and you finally run out of like
emails to reply to whatever, you can go pick some peat moss. By the way, make sure you're subscribed. So you don't miss out
on our upcoming video about graphics options in
games, because you don't have to worry about them here,
but those max settings are why do they even exist again?
We're gonna get into that. Now pivoting though, to ideal workloads for the elite folio. It's a much more compelling story. One of our writers actually
ended up taking one of our two units home to use for a couple Of weeks, doing everything
from browsing Reddit before bed in tablet mode, to
using the pull forward design for displaying recipes in the
kitchen, to holding scripts in the traditional laptop
layout during a shoot and so that I can read off of it. I remember that and everything
in between and it never got overly warm. The vegan leather is super soft to the touch and get
this it's wipe resistant. Can we try that? Oh, oh Oh, this is awful. I'm sorry, everyone. Wow. That is a lot of ketchup. I guess what I would probably do if I was trying to clean
something is first I'd get the You know, the main goops off, right? So now it's yeah, it's been wiped. I can't say I I can't say I completely
understand what that means. So I did actually get all the
ketchup out of the track pad, So that's good. And it resisted being wiped, I suppose. So if you've gotta You know, grab a snack, right? You're sitting at the
coffee shop, you pour ketchup all over your laptop. Fortunately you can wipe it. Okay. Seriously though, back
a little bit more on topic. ARM on windows is not perfect
yet, but given that most of our work here at Linus Media
Group runs an either G suite or Office 365, sorry,
editors that's work too, but I'm talking more about
like the writing team stuff. The compatibility issues
that might affect someone like a video editor or a gamer,
they don't really show up. The kind of thing you would
notice would be the keyboard. And it actually feels great to type on. It's really quiet. I really like, I mean, HP has
been making great notebook laptops for a long time. Ah, okay, Well apparently that's it. I typed 90 words per minute. Now there's a bunch of points
that the writer Plouffe put in here about how it's well laid out, even though this is a super
compact device and point is, while you're on a conference
call, it's super quiet, really comfortable to
type on and manages to be like a soft bottom out,
but without completely lacking any tactile feel,
that's absolutely critical for a business machine
like this and definitely holds it somewhat against
similarly priced laptops. The chassis is magnesium and super thin. The track pad feels good. It smells like ketchup. Your mileage may vary on that one. And two in one hinge designs
have clearly come a long way from when the first convertible showed up. Like, I absolutely love
the super strong magnetism of this hinge. It's never something that
you're gonna feel like you know, accidentally turned
floppy doodly over time. Remember when they
called them convertibles? Like, back when they first
started marketing these things? Two in one is definitely
a better name for it. Just like that, like any two in one, as soon as you flip it into tablet mode, it goes ahead and, you know, enables auto rotate and
fancy stuff like that. For IO, you've got a three
and a half millimeter headphone jack in two USB type C ports. One on either side that
does mean you'll need a hub if you're using a wired mouse for example, but thankfully
there's no special ARM compatible hubs or anything like that. You just use a normal one. And the type C ports are
for charging as well. That is when the battery eventually dies. It's rated for a whopping
25 hours of video playback on a single charge, which
is three normal workdays or two super long ones,
which is absolutely perfect for when business travel
becomes a thing again. On that note, it's also got a
SIM card slot hidden away next to the stylus that we
totally didn't talk about yet but that'll allow you to stay
connected just about anywhere by a 4g LTE, 5g, or wifi
six, all of these features battery life, cellular connectivity, and of course the fanless
design traced back to the Qualcomm Snapdragon
compute chip set. And oh right, this is where I was supposed to talk about the stylus but I ended up talking about it
earlier, cause it's so cool. I mean, you know, business right? Sign documents or whatever? In terms of the speakers,
they're made by HP, but tuned by Bang and Olufsen (upbeat music playing) I mean, obviously we're
not expecting a ton of bass on a device this size, but
I'd say given the size, Bang and Olufsen did a
bang up job of tuning it. Yeah. That's like super respectable. It's not room filling by any stretch of the imagination, but
I don't expect it to be. And what it does have
is excellent clarity. I wouldn't say the web cam
is the best I've ever seen but I'll let you guys be the judge in terms of how you feel it looks. And since we're already
talking about things that are not all sunshine and rainbows, I already mentioned the
lack of legacy USB A ports but like other SOC based notebooks there is functionally zero upgradability. And it is a little on the
heavy side, especially if you're using it as a tablet
at roughly three pounds. The flip side of that though, Get it flip side of that to get? Is at least it feels, you
know, reassuringly hefty. Speaking of assurance,
you can get an optional HP sure view reflect screen
to prevent unwanted helpers from glancing over at your
screen, allowing you to work on whatever you want, wherever you want. We've actually tried that out
before and it is super cool. And another feature that
I talked about briefly but I haven't actually shown you guys yet. It's becoming a staple on
privacy oriented devices is a physical shutter
for the included webcam. So you don't have to worry about someone getting
access to your device and peeping on you. Unless you're an exhibitionist like that and you just don't care. So what do you guys think? Are we finally moving
towards ARM on windows now that truly AAA devices like
this exist without Intel or AMD CPU's? Do you need a new tablet or laptop and can't decide what to get? Let us know in the comments
and make sure to check out our latest build stream, by the way. It's called I was bored
so I built a computer. And it was a lot of fun as always.