- Thank you, "Apex", for
sponsoring this video. 39 YouTubers. One giant map. 250 hidden weapons. There are 13 teams with
three people per a team. Everyone has three balloons. And if all three of your
balloons are popped, you're out. Last team with balloons wins a $100,000. There will be two games. So before we jump into it, let me introduce you to the
YouTubers that are competing. Lachlan, Lazarbeam, Muselk, PrestonPlayz, Unspeakable, Typical Gamer, Faze Adapt, Faze Rug, Faze Blaze, Courage, Noah, Wildcat, Odd One Out, Anthony, Jaiden Animation, KittyPlays, Pokimane, Valkyrae, Alex Ernst, Danny Duncan, Cole Labrant, Faze Replays, Sancho, Nikeh30, Mini Ladd, Tanner Fox, Roman Atwood, Leon Lush, Dallmyd, Joogsquad, Fitz, Swaggersouls, Zuckles, Swoozie, Lazyron Studios, Alex Wassabi. Let me just remind you that "Apex Legends" is linked in the description, and it is free to play
on PC, PS4, and Xbox. - Let's get ready! - [White Team Player] Whoa, whoa. - To rumble! - All right, ladies and gentleman, starting with the Teal Team
already falling down in the mud. It has been raining here
in LA, which is not common. These contenders are not used
to the environment today, but they're gonna have
to get used to it fast to adapt to this environment if they wanna walk away
with the $100,000 prize. Black already getting weapons,
running through the field. - [Black Team Player] Hey,
hey, over here, over here. - White is coming up
from the rear from the- - [Blue Team Player] Grenade! Oh! Ah! - A smoke grenade. Blue smoke grenade being thrown in the far side of the field. Purple going in, and they're trying to loop that same area that the Australians just came in, where they didn't find weapons. But now they do have a few weapons. - The Australians are trying to flank behind that guard there. - [Blue Team Player] Try
and make a run for it! Run, run back! - And then we also have Purple coming up behind the
Australians in those ruins. All right. Purple now, taking shots
at Blue through the window. And we're seeing a live face-off here between Purple and Blue. There's a lot of camping
that's taking place right now. - As teams are afraid to push. But I see a push right now! Gold moving in. They're gonna run in on Red. Shots being fired! Balloons pop. I think that building, they might have it. Teal running out. And Gold doesn't see 'em! Gold doesn't see 'em! Teal escapes Gold's push forward. - [Blue Team Player]
Don't waste your ammo! Unless you're hitting, dude. - Pink is retreating from Green on the far side, on the Egyptian side. We also have the Black Team over here. - [Black Team Player] Take out the girls, and take their ammo. - [Green Team Player] How do I look, guys? Do I look good? - Orange is sitting in
that spot right there. Oh, there's a push now! Teal coming in. Now, we're getting some live action. Purple down behind that car. Grab the weapon. He has a rifle now. - [Gold Team Player] Watch my back. Got him. He's out, he's out! - Faze Blaze, again,
completely out of the game. All three balloons gone. - So, Blaze, how do you feel, man? - Bro, it feels bad, man. There was a gun right out
in the open with a full mag. And Rug didn't have a gun. And I was like, "All right, Rug, take my gun. Give me cover fire. And I'm gonna try and
get the gun for you." And literally, the second I stepped out, like five teams looked at me. - Just lit you up? - And just lit me up. - Faze Blaze, first member that confirmed, completely out of the game. That's gonna hold, Faze. Black sneaking up now. They're moving in on that Red Team. It's Purple. It's Purple versus 12. And Purple's completely eliminated. - What, what happened? - [Purple Team Player] One gun! There's literally only gun in our vicinity and two teams on both sides of it. - Ah. - White Team, still
camping in that corner. Yellow pushing forward. Some live action through these ruins here. As Blue is camping, Yellow's
running through the field. - Cameron! Cameron! Cameron! - What?
- Help! - What? - Putting it all on the
line, these YouTubers. - I'm gonna cover you, okay? Get up. - You get hit with one of these pellets, it doesn't feel too good. - [Yellow Team Player] Mason, run, go! - Bro, you're fine. - [White Team Player]
You're out, you're out. - [Yellow Team Player] Wait the front. What the is this? What is that? Let me get this. - Only team that I see
fully intact at this point is Red, is White, excuse me. White is on the... - [Gold Team Player] Got 'em
all three, got 'em all three. They're all down. - [Red Team Player 1] We're out. - [Red Team Player 2] Am I dead? - [Red Team Player 1]
Yeah, we're both dead. - [Red Team Player 2] Dang it. - Storm is coming in. The staff is pushing these
players to get the more... Cross-wave combat! Blue walks in. Walks to the pillar. It's Blue versus Teal. They're shooting through the window! Balloons being popped! They're exchanging! Oh! There's a couple balloons left. And Teal's, Teal's out. - [Light Blue Team Player] I got one. - There's only one balloon
remaining in there. - [Blue Team Player] Am I popped? - And it looks like, maybe somebody in Teal has forfeited because they were getting
sprayed at close-range. Teal completely out. And there was an exchange at the end. And he's out! Blue's completely out! - So what happened? Give me the rundown. - When it starts off, they're like, "Oh, yeah, you're in
a high artillery zone. You're sweet." Literally, no guns within 100
meters of where we started. - [Gold Team Player] Where'd Noah go? - [Gold Team Player 2] I don't know. - [Gold Team Player] You're
out, you're out, you're out. You've been out, dude! - [Yellow Team Player]
Oh, all right, let me out. - [Gold Team Player] Come on, man. - [Yellow Team Player] I'm sorry. - [Gold Team Player] Hey, it's
all right, it's all right. - [Green Team Player 1] What? - [Green Team Player
2] The GoPro popped it. - Four battles about to go down. I cannot wait to see how this ends. - [Gold Team Player] Yeah, yeah. Check the trees. Purple, one building over. - Getting pushed to the center there. - [Pink Team Player] Got 'em! Go! Let's go, baby! - Pushing hard. Orange has been forced
from their camping spot. And I believe Purple is
in the storm right now. I believe they're in the storm, and they need to push forward or they're gonna get disqualified. - [Gold Team Player] Out! Out! I got you, I got you, I got
you, I got you, I got you. - Shots! - [Gold Team Player] I
got your balloon, bro! - He's still alive. He doesn't know he's alive. - [Orange Team Player] You're
out, you're out, you're out. - We're yelling to him, we're trying to let him know. We're trying to help him out. Not technically cheating, but... - Yo, Courage! - We tried, bro. - What happened? - It was intense. We all walked through one
doorway and just went, - Really? No way! - We have the Black Team, sitting all the way out there. And Orange retreating back
to the, the camping mechanism that's been working for
them the whole game. They're easily outnumbered. - [Orange Team Player] You good? - Black retreating. Black sees a flank. Black is pointing out, and they're pointing right at
Light Green and Dark Green. They're pointing out
this flank that's coming. And they're getting prepared
for it in that far corner. Coming up through the trail right here. - [Green Team Player]
Should we just do it? - And the six man team agreeing. - [Green Team Player]
I'll follow you, dude. - Now, listen, Green's
kinda out in the open. But they do have an advantage. - [Dark Pink Team Player] We
gotta make it behind that wall. He's pushing out, he's pushing out right there! - I'm not sure if that
came from Orange or Pink. But a team we just didn't
see this whole game, came outta nowhere. - Slinging shots! - [Green Team Player] Which one? Right here? - [Orange Team Player] We're going too. - And now Green is in a tough spot. They're getting cornered
from both Orange and Pink! - [Orange Team Player] I
got two, I got two here. - [White Team Player] Andre, Andre, on me. Black guy! One balloon, one balloon. - What? - [White Team Player] Right here! Two balloons. Black on me. Right in front of me! - Black and White are about to engage. - [White Team Player] I see him. Okay, don't show up. - Black has two balloons each. Black seems to be pushing, White doesn't seem to be. Here we go, we're gonna get engagement. Oh! And Joogsquad is knocked
down by Roman Atwood! - [White Team Player] One more, one more! - What the heck? - [White Team Player] Andre,
he's right in front of us. Right, right just a
little before that guy. We're gonna squeeze him! Turn that way, that
way, that way, that way! He's right here in front of me. - And Roman Atwood, and Tanner, with one balloon each. Oh! Roman Atwood knocked outta the game! It's one v one! It's Tanner! Uh-oh. He's behind. He got him! - Guys, I saw you guys hoarding weapons. What happened? - Man! You know, we had it, and then somebody suck up behind us. We got pinched by two teams. We were taking fire from everywhere. - It's not about winning or losing, it's about having a good
time with your friends. - And you had a good time? - I had a great time. - Dude, thank you, "Apex". - And the Joogsquad is back. The Black Team is completely out. - [Green Team Player]
I took out one or two of their balloons. You got pretty close. - Leaving the area, I don't see Green. I'm not sure what happened to Green. And I don't see Pink. - Pink! - [Dark Pink Team Player]
Where'd he shoot from? - Just standing in that corner. Circle's getting smaller. Oh! And we got Green versus Tanner Fox. And he's out! Tanner Fox takes out another one! - [Green Team Player 1]
Guys, put your hands in. Put our hands in, put our
hands in, we're still in. Namaste, go team! - [Green Team Player 2]
Did you say "namaste?" - The Pink Team... The Pink Team doesn't even
have their weapons up. And there's a spray right there. I'm not sure if Tanner is still in. - Oh! Tanner Fox knocked out of the game. - Yo, what happened, man? - Oh, man. My teammates, they did super well. The zone pushed, and I had to be out in
the open versus two teams shooting at me. - Ah! Two teams! How was it? Was it fun? - It was a lot of fun.
- Yeah? - It was a lot of fun. Thank you, "Apex". - Yeah.
- Thank you. - And now the push is really over in that far corner over there. - Pink has an advantage because they do have the outside wall. They're caught on the wire,
they're caught on the wire, they're caught on the wire. Oh, no. Oh, no. He's caught in the wire. The staff comes in to try to help him. - [Dark Pink Team Player 1] Well done. - [Dark Pink Team Player
2] I have no bullets, bro. - Pink and Green engaged right there. I just seen a balloon pop. They now all have... Oh! Big pop on the side of Pink. Pink player completely out of the game. - So, how was it? Give me a rundown. - That was incredible! That was, the most fun
I've ever had in my life. - For me, that was the second
most fun thing in the world. 'Cause the most fun
thing for me right now, is "Apex Legends" available
on PC, Xbox, and PlayStation. - You're right. Dude, even better... - That's what I'm saying. - Download link is in the description. - Orange getting flanked. Oh! What now? And we can't see at this vantage
point if Pink is still in. Shots fired, shots fired! One Orange player out. And one Orange player made a dash forward. Pink retreating with one balloon only. One balloon only. He's trying to see if he
still has the balloon. But he's getting hit! He's getting hit on the
left side, by Orange! But no, Orange is retreating. Oh! Shots fired. And he's gonna run right in the way. Ladies and gentleman. Green, all he has to do
is turn around the corner. And there he is! There he is! Oh! Poached flank. Orange with one balloon
coming up on two Green. - [Green Team Player 1] Am I still in? - [Green Team Player 2] Yeah. - Green's just stuck. Green is stuck in that corner. - [Green Team Player] I'm out. - Taking a different point. Oh! And Orange taking out Duncan. Ladies and gentleman, that might be it. Ladies and gentleman, Green wins the gold! - Oh, my god! - And our winners of the first game, how does it feel? - It feels great. - That was really, I don't know what the happened. - Shot's still good. - Shout out to "Apex Legends" for allowing it to happen. - Thank you, "Apex". - Thanks! - Just give me your PayPal, and I'll give you a hundred grand. ♪ Mr. Beast ♪ ♪ Six thousand ♪ ♪ Oh, oh ♪ ♪ Mr Beast ♪ ♪ Six thousand ♪ ♪ Oh, oh ♪ ♪ Mr Beast ♪ ♪ Six thousand ♪ ♪ Yeah, you know his name ♪ ♪ He changed it once or twice ♪ ♪ But I think it's here to stay ♪ - Thank you, "Apex Legends", for sponsoring this video and this event.