Why Retaining Walls Fail In March of 2021, a long-running construction ground to halt when one of the retaining This project in Camden County, called the Direct and this failure set it back even further. As of under investigation, but the event brought part of the constructed environment. I love and I promise by the end of this video that you've never even noticed before. what are the different ways to do it, and and this is Practical Engineering. In today's This video is sponsored by HelloFresh, The natural landscape is never ideally The earth is just too uneven. Before things lower areas of the ground first. We flatten and railways, and we build ramps up to You might notice that these cuts and fills Loose soil won't stand on its own vertically. The stability of a slope can vary significantly it needs to withstand. You can get many types and it's done all the time during construction, them to slump and settle into a more stable engineers rarely trust anything steeper than 25 lower the earth, you need a slope that is twice Don't tell them I said this, but slopes are kind it's either inconvenient, or entirely impossible driving, or even as open spaces like parks. In so it doesn't make sense to waste valuable it often makes sense to avoid this disadvantage by When you see a retaining wall in the wild, But that's usually only true because much of the wall is essentially a dam, except instead of as easily as water, but it is twice as heavy. The called the lateral earth pressure, can be of the soil itself. Include the fact that we often or other structures, on top of the backfill and they can increase the forces on a retaining or even freeze in the soil behind a retaining Estimating all these loads and designing a wall civil engineer. Unlike most structures most of the forces on a retaining wall are types of walls that have been developed to Let's walk through a few different designs, These dowels act like soil particles so we can walls are able to withstand such tremendous The most basic retaining walls rely often employing a footing along the base. The base to distribute the forces of the wall into extend the footing on the outside of the wall to However, it's actually more beneficial for the That's because the earth behind the wall sits the wall upright against lateral forces. Retaining weight of the soil above them to remain stable and the ones that use a footing like One common type of retaining wall involves tying retaining the unreinforced soil beyond and very first engineering videos on my channel. including reinforcement elements between layers of earth. The reinforcing elements can be steel geotextile or geogrid. It is remarkable how well In this demonstration, I'm just using but in that previous video, I built a cube and it held up one of the tires of if you want some more engineering Gravity walls and mechanically stabilized earth up or out. In other words, they're constructed need to be retained as well. Maybe you're cutting or constructing a building in a dense urban area you need to install a retaining wall before and there are several ways to go about it. Just mechanically stabilized earth, you can also stitch called soil nailing. First, an angled hole is a steel bar is inserted into the hole, usually centered. Cement grout is added to the hole to Both mechanically stabilized earth and soil so it's easy to spot them if you're too closely until you are safely stopped. but the facings are rarely supporting to protect the exposed soil from erosion due the facing sometimes consists of shotcrete, a using compressed air. For permanent interlocking concrete panels with a decorative but they also allow for some movement over One disadvantage of soil nails is that the soil of each one kicks in. The nails also have to drilling. In some cases it makes more sense to or tiebacks. Just like soil nails, anchors are but you usually need a lot fewer of them. Also their entire length. Instead, part of the anchor so you end up with a bonded length and an unbonded a hydraulic jack is used to tension each one. The band to store that tension force. Once the anchor wedge-shaped washer, the tension in the unbonded holding the soil back. Anchored walls or beams called walers to distribute the One final type of retaining wall uses piles. into the ground. Concrete shafts are installed When they are placed in a row touching Sometimes they are overlapped, called secant the primary piles are installed without steel secondary piles are drilled partially piles have reinforcing steel to provide most of you can use interlocking steel shapes called using humongous hammers or vibratory rigs. Pile below to cantilever up vertically and resist the more resistance you can achieve. Pile walls construction projects because the wall can ensuring that the excavated faces have All these types of retaining walls but retaining walls do fail, and there are designing for lateral earth pressure. It's not especially because the slope is often Earth pressure behind a wall can build gradually many years later. Lots of retaining walls are and it's easy to underestimate the loads if you're require that anything taller than around 4 feet or As I mentioned, soil loads aren't the only forces surcharge loads are introduced like larger the edge. If you're ever putting something heavy swimming pool or operating a crane, it's usually Water is another challenge with retaining walls. pressure, in some climates it can freeze. When nearly impossible to restrain, and you don't Most large walls are built with drainage Keep an eye out for holes through the called weepholes, or pipes that Finally, soil can shear behind the wall, even For tall retaining walls with poor soils, engineers perform a global stability involves using computer software that a huge number of potential shearing planes Look around and you'll see retaining slopes so we all have a little more They might just look like a pretty but now you know the important job they do and It's time for everyone's favorite segment of me trying to cook while my wife The holidays in our house get a little bit chaotic. That's why we're thankful for for converting cooking from a chore into This time our little helper got to open goof around in the kitchen and cook dinner about 30 minutes to make, so they're perfect HelloFresh has a bunch of options to choose vegetarian meals, and the recipes are excellent: The pre-portioned ingredients mean and the packaging is already recycled Go try it yourself at HelloFresh.com. If you use free gifts. Supporting our sponsors helps support code PRACTICAL14. Thanks, HelloFresh, and thank