Don't take taxis. This was my very first note that I made of hopping into a cab I was so used to affordable from the airport in New York when the meter for my first ride in Tokyo Having now traveled to Japan I've learned firsthand that there are a lot of unspoken rules I'm sharing the essential travel tips I visited Japan for the very first time. And stick around 'til the end. I have lots of money-saving First up, the best ways to get around the city. Getting from the airport to Tokyo doesn't Coming in from Haneda Airport? The Keikyu airport line is a train Airport Station to downtown Tokyo It only costs Y=510 to Shinagawa station, Yamanote line to access popular neighborhoods The Tokyo Monorail also runs from Haneda Airport It costs Y=490, and from Hamamatsu station JR Yamanote Line, if you have a Japan Rail Pass. you directly to major hotels The ride takes between 30 to 75 minutes, depending on the traffic, Oh, and this may all sound foreign to you Don't worry. I'll clear it up in a second. Starting your trip from Narita? The JR Narita Express train offers direct service like Tokyo Station. It takes about an hour to reach Tokyo Station The Narita Express ticket is fully covered Express is a more budget friendly option, stations in downtown And it costs about Y=2,470 or about $17 USD. And a quick note if you have a super early arrival or a super late departure shut down every night from for maintenance. To avoid being stuck with a taxi consider staying at a capsule hotel Then the next morning you'll be able to catch your flight out And I'll show you a master tip later the last trains that are running to So keep an eye out for that. Now let's talk about the best once you're in Tokyo. Be thoughtful when you're considering any train passes Let me give you a quick breakdown between IC cards and the JR Pass. IC Cards like Passmo charge cards that can be used like trains, subways, buses and monorails And they allow easy tap and go payment. You simply touch the card when you're entering You can also use IC cards in convenience vending machines and more in Tokyo. In contrast, rail passes like the Japan Rail Pass cover most long distance trains that are run by J.R. nationwide, including the Shinkansen They provide huge savings if you plan to travel widely If your trip is concentrated with an IC Card than a nationwide rail pass But if your itinerary covers across Japan, a rail pass is likely Quick note the price of the JR Pass is set to increase significantly. So plan your travel accordingly. Also, take note that you cannot use the JR Pass on the Tokyo Metropolitan subway. Your best bet for that would be an IC Card, a Tokyo Metro Pass, My favorite train trip to take while in Now you may see different itineraries, with a touring company. But whenever I plan it on my own, to cities like Hakone, Kyoto, Nara, and Osaka. and then I'll add on cities And I do all this It's truly And one of the best ways to get your money's JR passes. But whenever I'm staying just in Tokyo I'll just buy an IC card, a Tokyo And if you're planning on riding try this money saving tip. Purchase your Shinkansen train ticket and then link it to your IC Card and online you could potentially save All right. But let's figure out If you want to start exploring renting a coin locker at the airport. But I swear by the Takuhaibin service. It's a parcel transport company that can deliver your luggage directly Sometimes the same day. Service counters throughout the city. For peace of mind, whenever I use any delivery service from my personal bags, I use Apple AirTags. inside your bags and luggage and you can anything missing and you will always know Here are some quick etiquette tips riding public transportation in Japan. Take off backpacks and crowded trains. Put them in front of you, in Avoid bringing large pieces of luggage onto trains, And if you have big luggage, just use While Japan is extremely safe overall, groping, unfortunately can be an issue on packed rush hour trains. many lines offer during busy commuter times, in the morning In the evening, look for the pink and avoid boarding by mistake. Alerting authorities right away is super important. allow the driver to open the door The cars are equipped for it and it's the only way for the driver to know when you are safely inside Rideshare like Uber and Lyft aren't really a thing in Japan. Apps exist for it, But there are no big savings If you plan on renting a car, Parking and gas tolls in Japan, making the cost of running a car You'll also need a special driver's order to be able to drive in Japan. So be sure to check that out as well. If you're still feeling by all the transportation options, Google Maps gives you between your starting point It's just like as One awesome feature estimate to determine and whether you should consider If you're looking for more efficient the best train cars to use for the fastest And it's based on the approximate Just match the train car to the train car tape in the station to make sure that you're in the right If you're using Google Maps for cycling, It sometimes takes you off that you don't necessarily Instead, use the driving map feature and tolls within the settings. This will put you on a much more bearable Oh, and if you want to make sure you'll never be stranded anywhere in Tokyo All you need to do is put your destination available option. Google Maps will then provide you train options that you have going But if you're fairly new you might want to give yourself a little So now that you have your Japan transit plan out, Is it the futuristic neon cityscape of Akihabara, Or is it the winding back Let me know your must-visit destinations in the comments. Whichever destination I'll be sure to cover it to show you the best things do Alright. You've got the Tokyo transport mastered. So now let's switch gears to everyone's rates, ATM and what's this about carrying It can all be so overwhelming. Let me explain. First, exchange rates. These fluctuate daily, based on economic If you Google "currency converter," you're going to see, It's what a currency is worth on that day. But banks and airport exchanges They add fees and percentages run their business. So you can expect to get 5 to 10% less to Yen when you're using an airport If you just have to use an airport only swap a small amount there or even Even better, order some Yen from your bank The rate and it gives you a nice little yen cushion Okay, so now you have some yen pocket change, but you'll likely need more cash And this is where the 7-Eleven ATMs The exchange rate at 7-Eleven to the mid-market rate, There is a small fee, Oh, and don't worry about walking around Japan is a safe country, but that doesn't Here are some etiquette tips When it comes to your yen. Avoid looking Keep it neatly tucked away. Use the exact change at shops It's not customary in Japan and it's when paying cash, place money into the attendant's hands. And then just add a polite Then you'll blend right in. If you ever get you're duty-bound to return it. If you notice it and you don't return it, that can be treated as fraud in Japan. your bank of your travel dates This prevents any potential account when withdrawals start showing up abroad. And consider wallet and multiple secret compartments and money safe. Oh, and let's not forget credit Luckily, Tokyo is modern. Most big stores and restaurants But cash still rules at traditional shops My suggestion: Use cards for big purchases but always carry bills for taxis, trains When in doubt, go cash. With International money you can open a multi-currency that's linked to your bank account dollars, yen, euros, etc. You can easily exchange currency between balances Fees do apply for the exchanges. so you can research And please let me know and share your own currency tips below to help other fellow travelers unlock All right, We've got our yen sorted. Now let's talk Let me tell you, I learned this lesson So I flew my parents out to Japan And we did Tokyo and Kyoto together. But I waited until the absolute last But I had to keep it together that I had already made So I got on my phone, And it turns out I had accidentally Let's just say that the mirrored ceilings should have been giant red flags Again, lesson learned. So now I plan my accommodations 4 at better locations. Let me share my insider tricks without the headaches Here's a pro tip I use. Booking from outside of Japan using a VPN service reveals lower saving 10 to 15% on bookings VPN services like Nord vpn work You sign up for the VPN and then connect to a Japanese Now there are a lot of options So even if you're booking last minute, Do you love sleek modernity? Go for a high rise If you're seeking cultural immersion, reserve a traditional ryokan inn Capsule hotels have efficient solo pods, And business hotels Or you can indulge in a resort And be sure to research the neighborhood You want to pick ideal locales So history buffs, head to Kamakura. go for Roppongi. Stay in Akihabara. And use Google Maps Street View to scout that you might want to visit Now a few things to know Ryokans and minshukus beds on tatami mat floors It's part of the cultural experience, in case you have any issues While hotels have private bathrooms, Confirm amenities And if you prefer a private bathroom, to avoid the no-frills guesthouses. And if smoking is an issue for you, it's probably best Oftentimes, non-smoking rooms are designated So the lingering smell When paying for your accommodations bigger chains accept credit cards. So always have some All right, Super Travelers. It's pop quiz time. Let's test your knowledge about this This one's advanced. But here it goes. Okay, so you've landed in Tokyo and you're But for tomorrow, you're planning to travel to Kyoto How do you get around The Japan Rail pass? The IC card? Regular tickets? Explain your choice in the comments. Now that you know exactly where where in the calendar With the incredible scenery and events choosing your ideal travel window Let's explore so you can map out a trip that's timed Here's a mind blower for you. Did you know that each year search for information This means that there are over 300,000 people It seems everyone wants a piece and they want it just at the right moment. I'll give you a breakdown so you can plan your adventure during Spring means one thing in Japan. Cherry blossom season. Come late March, prepare for an explosion This is the perfect time to fake nap for Insta-worthy Hanami pics. way ahead though. Fair warning. You'll be competing in places Summer is hot, but it's also super lively Make a splash at waterparks in more northern locations always pack umbrellas. Rainy season means weeks of wet weather, lush scenery. You'll just have to try sampling street food In my opinion, Cooler temperatures Yes, please! You can do leaf peeping right in spots But skip the crazy weekend crowds. Weekdays are your new best friend. And then you can soak your trail- Onsen hot spring. Just pure heaven. Come December, snow Will you choose powder perfection Take your pick, when families Beyond climate, whatever you plan to do while you're in History buffs, spring or fall allow for temple hopping Anime fans target October for Comic Con Foodies get autumn seafood harvests, but spring has sakura sweets. And speaking of, be sure to check out this It's the perfect prep to get you ready for tasting And here's another money Search for airfares directly on Asian While sites like Expedia you may find cheaper fares airline websites. use Google Translate You can sometimes save up to $300 Asian airlines don't always show up on the American So no matter your travel style, sync your dates with suitable seasons But do your best to avoid the spikes Wondering what to pack when you go? Focus on versatile essentials It's actually possible to travel Japan And speaking of, if you're in the process check out this video where I reviewed six luggage companies in their top six Plan your wardrobe around Japan's Spring and fall are mild. So light layers work perfectly. Summers are hot and humid, that dry quickly. And winters rarely snow So I'd pack warm sweaters you're not going to be wearing too much And don't forget durable, comfortable You'll likely clocked ten- plus miles per day, exploring huge cities And here's a quirky Bring a few foldable bags. They come in so handy for toting wet umbrellas, And hand sanitizers and hand In Japan, it's more common dryers instead of paper towels So now that you have more insight on what Japan has to offer what's your ideal time to visit Japan? Let me know in the comments when you'd Now I'll never forget the time when my friend at a Tokyo restaurant Neither of us spoke Japanese, so we couldn't properly communicate It was truly eye opening how unprepared we were. From that day on, I made it my mission traveling in Japan Let's start with allergy prep. I now always carry translated to flash at restaurants. phrases for communicating When you have dietary restrictions finding truly authentic meals Here's a pro-tip, though. Rather than just googling words like sushi or ramen, use the Japanese Reviews in Japanese who know the great spots, beyond to find vegan, gluten free Here's a quick tip. When you're using Google Translate, to take pictures of menus what allergy information And also I haven't But I've been told that in tourist traps, are lower than the ones that are I don't know if that's true, And for my vegan and vegetarian friends, pleased to know that the Happy Cow To bridge communication gaps, order international allergy cards Sites like foodallergy.org create for food allergies, intolerances These can be life savers. I'll link to the site below. Okay, let's pause there. Based on what we've covered so far, communicate your dietary needs in Japan Share your thoughts or ask any questions it's important to know what to do threatening allergies, carry emergency medication And print a bilingual list of allergy when to administer your meds. You can also get this vital sheet Review the steps with your doctor and have multiple copies to share. Being prepared with a plan Speaking of epinephrine, just know that the EpiPen is the only auto So if you use something else at home, When flying, airport security all the labels and prescription details You can make it easy outlining the required meds as part of a travel health plan. All right. So we've covered allergy and diet And now that you're equipped to dine Let's make sure that you're fully prepped that may come up. In 2018, entering Japan She was sentenced to two years in prison. This case shows the severity But follow the rules closely First, triple check that you're planning on bringing in Rules differ from home. So even common drugs like Adderall without special approval. Carefully review Japan's guidelines. Penalties for undeclared restricted Do not risk it Better safe than sorry. And just a quick pro-tip. Keep digital copies of your prescriptions, in a secure online vault that you can Outside of your personal medication needs, it's important to come to Japan, prepare You can start by saving key like 110 for police and 119 for ambulance. Japan Helpline And take a photo of your hotel In Japanese and in English. So that you can show your taxi or ambulance drivers And I know this is a lot of information So check the link below. I've created a free editable, emergency for all the travel, documentation, medication If you want to take an extra step Travel Insurance provides invaluable like it did with my friend. When buying insurance, verify the policy covers valuables, and risky activities Purchase it Travel Insurance can come in For example, say you break your leg skiing and hospitalization for two days. Your policy and evacuate you home safely, And speaking of, for medical emergencies, symptoms and allergies Have your emergency translations on hand. Also bring a basic health travel kit. Pain relievers upset stomach AIDS, motion sickness, meds, bandages, extra contacts, etc. Whatever you normally need, bring it along. All right. We've got health and safety Now let's switch gears to an equally Having your passport, the way to an incredible trip. Your passport is your ticket to Japan. Be sure it has at least two and at least six months of validity Airlines can deny your boarding And if the airlines happen to overlook it they will send you right back For US citizens, you won't need a tourist But for other nationalities, Japan's So do your homework well in advance as the application involves And here's a super important pro- requirements for any other Asian countries In addition to Japan, and your onward travel plans So you want to make sure that you have before arriving in Japan. And register with your home country's Oh, and leave a copy of your passport back at home. You never know when having a backup Now quick public service announcement.. have changed dramatically Make 100% sure that the current visa guidance applies to your trip dates that any forms are updated versions. As of May 2023, Japan has lifted all COVID No more needing to show proof of vaccines It's now just two quick stops; Immigration and Customs. Even better, you can complete those in I'll be going over how to breeze And there's one trick for saving money that you won't want to miss. Now, a quick but critical note You must carry your passport on you And the reason is simple. It's the only definitive proof and that you're not a Japanese citizen. Your entry stamp is vital. Carrying just a photocopy documentation. if you fail to produce by authorities, the police can escort And at worst, you could face a hefty That's not an ideal hit to your vacation Beyond police checks, when you're exchanging rail passes, tax free purchases Get your documents in order and the rest Let me know if you need any clarification Now that your documents are prepped, through Immigration and Customs While it's not mandatory, Visit Japan Web app to skip the hassle of paper But if you prefer old school methods, Immigration cards are available Oh, and here's the amazing money Use the app to get a tax free Just scan the QR code and they'll deduct the tax But be aware, tax Here are some of them. the items unopened and unused. Consuming in Japan forfeits the tax exemption. and to reclaim tax if needed at customs. exempt items on departure Just to break that down it basically means if you buy but you try to leave the country that's considered tax evasion. As long as you adhere to the guidelines, tax free shopping The Visit Japan Web app is pretty magical incredibly smooth. Let me know in the comments below on using this time saving app I'm happy to make a video walking through how to use the app Before we continue, if you're finding this please take a moment to subscribe. I'll be releasing many more videos not only in Tokyo So hit the bell Your support really keeps me Arigato, friends. Now that you're document ready, let's switch gears to etiquette. Mastering Japanese customs reveals a passageway From precision bowing to removing shoes, let's explore the code of conduct It begins with a bow. Not just any bow, but a precise motion, engrained since childhood. A slight head nod or lean for casual interactions. But bend full at the waist Holding for a few seconds The depth and duration relay the appropriate level of deference. And now you've had your first lesson Fascinating, right? The more you take the time to immerse yourself, the more you will enjoy that international travel has to offer. of these cultural customs. Never stick It eerily mimics funeral with your arm fully extended, avoiding reaching over others. Slurp your noodles and leave your chopsticks resting In most Japanese restaurants, a small wet cloth to clean your fingers. Use it. Fold it neatly. Never use it to wash your face or clean up It's not a napkin. It's officially called an oshibori. So be prepared. In transit, voices remain muted and activities Chatter softly and stand to the left to breeze by on the right. And if your neighbor happens to fall it's common courtesy Oh, and don't use your mobile phone to do so. Using emails or SMS is fine though. wait for the host to give an enthusiastic before indulging in your beverage. Never hastily pour your own drink. Someone will promptly notice Remove your shoes gracefully upon entering homes, temples Separate bathroom in homes, Gifting necessitates care and consideration. Say, "Ojama shimasu," while entering someone's house, intricately wrapped present it Never open a gift publicly, though. Wait respectfully until later the gift and the sender. is that I once shamefully tore open me in proper proper etiquette. Another lesson learned. Now let's explore Blowing your nose or applying makeup? Not the best idea to do in public. Discreetly slip away to handle And you're going to notice pretty quickly clean from litter and gum. You'll be hard Be prepared to adopt the habit of carrying I mean, not home-home on your flight, Those plastic bags you packed Now, there are some customs but it's important to respect them in Japan. In Japan, the number four is avoided because in Japanese, The number four is extremely unlucky. I have 4 facts around the number four. Number one. something in fours because it can be seen Number two. Elevator labels Number three. In extreme Number 49 is especially unlucky, similar to the phrase that means, "painful And number four. The the number four is called Tetraphobia. And it's common in many East Okay. I'm adding a fifth one out of respect as well. Number five. Seems that very few Japanese about this superstition nowadays. But just be aware in China and Korea, where I'm going to keep going, but skip ahead This is for the real culture lovers. There's a ban on mid-walk It's seen as sloppy. But it is okay to eat an ice cream Strange. And don't skip the line in Japan. If police see you doing it like pushing, they can prosecute it It's not punishable but it's highly frowned upon These puzzling practices, Together, they create "Wa", a Japanese cultural concept, usually translated as societal harmony, Disrupting Wa is disrespectful. One of the Japanese secrets warm hospitality and care for others. Keep an open mind and heart What intrigues Let me know in the comments. I'm eager to hear your reactions and discuss this remarkable culture. I want to hear from parents How does traveling to Japan with your kids Share any concerns below or your furry friends along. And I'll make sure to cover planning When you start Some of you might be wondering, or my pets along?' 'And will they even enjoy themselves?' Well, never fear. I'm here to assure you experiences and furry friendly travel you can craft a one of a kind trip Japan is truly the home of so many things kids adore. Fast trains and futuristic robots, fierce ninjas, and noble samurai. Quirky anime And we can't forget Super Mario games And beyond all the flashy stuff, Japan offers intellectual curiosities like few other destinations can. there are plenty of budget-friendly meals cost a mere 800 to 1500 including drinks. And restaurants tea or water free of charge. For something visit themed eateries devoted to cute The Kawaii Monster Cafe is also a huge Hot Ramen bowls and Bento Box meals stores can fill your little bellies And now for the best part. Activities. My top recommended kid pleasers include robot shows, digital art museums, kimono wearing, feeding the deer in Nara, and screaming through the Fuji Q I'll link to a quick kids list for planning out your trip Because I'm just scratching the surface Speaking of scratching, we can't forget our little furry friends. Start prepping about 4 to 5 months ahead. That's not a suggestion. It's a requirement. in tip top shape. Address up to date and confirm Rules are really strict in Japan so get checkups, vaccinations, paperwork and import approval forms And if you're planning on moving to Japan Professional Pet Relocators. The process is very extensive Be sure to research Pet-friendly Major cities like Tokyo and Osaka some with private outdoor spaces. But many traditional inns So also look into vacation rentals Scope out pet friendly attractions While pets are banned from most museums like midges in Meiji Jingu in Tokyo, or Nara Park, Unfortunately, options are limited, at pet-approved spots. Remember that While picking up your pet's waste, quite a while before Now I'll say it again. Traveling with the pet in Japan is much So don't use this I haven't even touched on Please do your research And you cannot wait Overall, the key to family travel in Japan is balancing must-see attractions the hidden back streets as you discover Slow down and savor Okay, parents let me know in the comments. Does a Japan vacation sound exciting or overwhelming? Share your biggest hopes and concerns I'll make sure to cover planning insights Alright. Let's shift gears to a super important But first, if you're finding this please take just a second to hit It really supports me in creating more useful resources And be sure to check out my website and itineraries. Okay. Back to the tech tips. While Tokyo is home to the world's with a network of over 100,000 Wi-Fi it's still important that you make for privacy and cell phone use Option 1 is renting a pocket wi-fi device. These portable routers can be picked up and instantly you've got a Wi-Fi hotspot Your phone, Pocket wi-fi rental plans good enough for web browsing, posts, basic And you can share the connection with your whole family or group. you just pop the router into a prepaid return envelope Or you can just return it at the airport It's so easy. If traveling solo, or around a pocket wi-fi, a local SIM card At electronic shops you can buy a SIM, pop it in your phone The convenient thing is that SIMs let you pay Navigating Tokyo's maze-like railway networks and subway But apps like Google Maps and Hyperdia, everything with comprehensive route And don't forget portable chargers that are suited for Japan's unique My preferred charger is Anker. They make a great lightweight pocket And a travel surge protector during power spikes. While you're out exploring, only connect wi-fi networks. Save your banking and sensitive logins for complete security back at your hotel. like NordVPN Enable two factor authentication Let me know in the comments tech and internet capabilities in Japan. and apps that I can absolutely recommend Now at this point, you're a great foundation, there's still so more to transform these preparation Although you now understand the essentials you won't be able to bring this knowledge to life until you know how to put together build activities into your days That's why in my next video, travel itinerary It's packed with information in a magically cinematic way. And also check out this next video. We're we'll dive even further into I can't wait to help you map out Until next time, Sayonara from Tokyo.