How can a country go from being to the safest in the entire even safer than the United States? Well, certainly not The crackdown on gangs Concerns that human El Salvador had for a for its record high levels of which led to thousands fleeing the In the last few years, however, He described himself as and he decided that the time of the In the space of a few years, the reputation of El Salvador And it is clear that in many Salvadorans who were forced to are looking back at Please sing the song. And in fact, Ammar's Oscar Junior's dad, Oscar In the 80s, he was forced He made a dangerous all the way to the United His son, Oscar Junior, is now a college-educated At a time where division in the We believe that stories that embody can remind us of the importance of Now, Oscar Sr. just happened after working two full-time jobs for And so, we wanted to celebrate with a trip back to his home country and Through Oscar Senior's lens, we hope to learn more about the transformation as we prepare to embark to this mysterious little country 50 Hours in the America's Well, CitizenM in Miami, it's been great. Time for the next adventure. The adventure begins. I'm gonna pick up Oscar Senior, Oh my god! Wow! - We made it, man. - It's been 10 years. How are you doing, my friend? I think we are adventure partners. And you're taking my You're joining Yes Theory now officially. My English is not too good, though. I'm just wanna try the best I can. People understand your energy, Very good. That's the nickname of the group '' The 4 Bandits'' You know bandidos mean ''Bad guys''. Amazing! Vamonos. Vamonos, senor. Full blown vlogger now. I'm already feeling convinced that - Oh, I see him. Oh, five years, bro! Five years! Good to see you. The 4 bandits now The first person to have believed Ammar met Oscar Jr. over 10 years ago, back when they were in college. Together, they worked on and even traveled to Egypt of climbing the Great They've remained close but hadn't properly seen each Oscar was raised in America, and this trip would allow him of his motherland through the eyes - How are we feeling? We got to El Salvador. How are you feeling going back now? Cool, I haven't seen it since all these Considered one of the most like the murder capital of the You'll see when we get there. But before we take off to El Salvador, I want to tell you about a for years now and that we are actually and that we are so excited to be Airalo. Who are offering $3 off your first eSIM Whenever we land in a new country, instead of having to for a new physical SIM card or which can be really which is the world's first e-SIM store digital SIM cards that are which means that while while using our phones for coordinating, we're always connected Being trusted by 10 million Airalo is super easy to use. Just download the app, search for more than 200 countries and follow the simple instructions for instant connectivity Airalo low prices are And if you end up going for longer than you can easily extend and you get to keep Just remember before you start, check if your device is Scan this code on screen or use Yes Theory 3 in the for $3 off your first eSIM. Okay, now back to El Salvador. This is this guy's motherland. There it is. You feel that heat right away? Welcome. This was one of the nicest Everybody was smiling, I'm telling you, man, El Salvador Oh man, imagine, this is my I'm feeling so excited What are you most looking forward to? To see my friends, my house. - Yeah. I have been a long time not be here, Tomorrow, we are heading back to the house and we'll hear about And to celebrate his we've also prepared some including his first ever helicopter But first, we wanted What's the first stop? Well, we're planning to go... I think everyone want What is the pupusa? - What is the pupusa? - It's a corn... He's like, what the f*** What are you talking about? Do you want Coconuts? Yes, I want one. What am I supposed Oh, there's a straw. What? Were you gonna just...? Well, necessary first stop in El Salvador. What year was it? 1981, - No English. And... Jesus Christ, my friend, that's a hard part for myself, to say goodbye to my ma, because I never separate with her. That day when I say goodbye, that's the most hard part of my life. She's crying. She's hugging me and saying goodbye. That day I take the bus to Guatemala. I start... The nightmare is coming. Wow! It's not easy to come to America in those days man. Oh man, look at this. We made it, man. We made it, thank God. This is San Salvador capital, my friend. This is like a dream for me, to To be again in my country. Is this your first time in Yes, this is my first time, yes. I wish I had my father here, because all the time you're always hanging with him. But now, God take it, - But from heaven, they see me anyway. This is the famous pupusa that you've People in El Salvador don't use forks. Okay, you eat with your hands, like this. Wow, man, that's nice! Walking around the streets here, it's hard to guess that the murder capital of the world. Walking around with cameras, it People seem fairly happy. Wow, look at the guy with This is the most beautiful Oscar for Minister of Mr. Bukele, please, if you If you watch the video, Keep up the work in cleaning up our cities. I like it though. Years ago, you can't sit in like this. - You can't? The gains come over to can you help me out - Now, look at this. It's open from 10 p.m, It's good to see those things. This is a lot of changes, man. This is amazing! The big question surrounding is how exactly did El Salvador turn its Sometimes you would see gang When you see people your heart would drop just with And why are some Well, the answer is all within the hands Elected in 2019, Bukele made it his mission from the gang violence that had plagued it One way he did this was by by a whopping $109 million. But in March of 2022, after a particularly violent which resulted in over 60 homicides, Bukele made the controversial and announced a state of emergency that suspended certain Allowing the police to arrest without the usual legal procedures. As part of this crackdown on gangs, And while these policies it led to the dramatic decline from the highest in the However, while these drastic they also made Bukele leading many to accuse Still, he holds popularity and was voted in for a second Oscar would have during most of the struggles and we were now how much it has truly changed today. So many people are Multiple people have said, It's nice to be in a place where you can People seem relaxed. Nights like these were not really as possible as they are now. Especially for those walking Let's go explore. A few days before arriving, I posted on Instagram saying We're going to tell a story. A few people reached out, who recently moved from I'm going to meet her, hear from her, Hi, how are you? You shared a little bit My story is that I was born There was a lot of political conflict, which meant that she I left to London for a better future. And she's like, why are you You're crazy! What's wrong with you? And I'm like, no, you know, I want to get to experience my country. I think because I was robbed from the I loved El Salvador and I had It's been amazing! Years ago, you couldn't You used to find heads on the And this was the gang's way of But I mean, now you The only thing that hasn't The economy is still very bad. You know, you see kids out here working, really young kids being exploited. The salary is very bad. It seems like when the president came, he made a lot of unconstitutional and have control in a way that Are you more skeptical on the intention It's never bad to be skeptical but what he has presented to us is that he wants total He put a state of emergency in place, so essentially it was only but actually he keeps extending it, We could be wrong. We hope that, and I I hope I'm wrong, Now we're closing! Ladies and gentlemen, the We're going to the most beautiful That's my city. That was a massive convoy. First we thought it and then we just was like with two, I think, that had Had you seen that before? Never, never. You see these prisoners because the main jail is Oh, so they're going Oh yeah, they're going And they did not take security There was like at least like In those like eight trucks, that's crazy! - Are you excited to be back? To see my street, my people, my Happy to see it through your eyes. But the thing is, so many changes, it's kind of confusing for me everything felt empty; it Now, look, it's a big city now! For a long time, there have Now look at this, this is crazy. The main street is This is Avenida Carlos Bonilla. That's my grandpa, The main hospital name Ladies and gentlemen, Look at this! It's amazing! Before it was a stone street. This is the house, the yellow one. Oh, wow! That's the street. I was sitting here with a played football, soccer Oh, it's amazing! But look at this! How does it feel to just be here and see where your dad started This guy paid for my high school. I went to Waldorf High It's an affluent high school The respect that I had for than what other kids were And this guy would just You know, like and just because you as what you've gone through you're not gonna And it started here, This is MTV Cribs. Are we trespassing right Probably. When I see this place, I bring my mind, my mother sitting there with They call me Neto. - Neto? - Can you put water to the plants? They pay me one Colon for doing this. I always say, nah, I always... Because I'm so tired. Every day, 5 p.m., I Because in the back, My mother loved plants. What were you going through I got to get out of here It's because I don't By the time I left, I was The political situation was So many friends, I lost. They killed them. Rodrigo, his name was Teokhinis they kill. Mario was killed. Next, was me. There is no way... I had to go. That's why I connected with coyotes. So this is like an illegal from here through I mean, I guess through Yeah, those coyotes have a Like a chain. How do you cross the From Tijuana, to go to United Wait! you walked Yes, we crossing Everybody make a line. We touch each And then finally, they told us, &quot; Okay, guys, we are in America now. &quot; When they told me, man, because all the way I I say, my God, I don't want to go I almost, I get emotional thinking and the beautiful I just make a promise to myself, but he will never go through I look in the suspect for a job, then I don't know how to I don't know how I just , you know, I wanna work. And the guys, they already They acting like, what? I don't know. No, I'm sorry. And I got any kind of job. My first job was construction. I never had an armor when I was here. We live, 10 people, in one studio. Wow. Everybody's lay down So at this point, you got a job where? At UCSF Medical Center. What were you What was your job? Cleaning after surgery, Wow. And I met Christina That's Oscar's mom. - That's Oscar's mom. Two full-time jobs. I start six in the and start the other one 4 p.m. By the time I get home, it's almost 2 a.m., What's the main lesson you He always told me, he Gordo, if you don't jump, you So... I think, I'm one to kind of give it a but at least I give it a shot. Wow. Now I have my son, and This guy running through the jungles, crossing borders, sleeping Now, I'm successful. I have a house, thanks to god, I have a beautiful wife, But this is not coming You have to work it out. Be constant, no matter what. Now we have to enjoy Exactly, exactly. So many things, whatever you find... Do you think they Am I going to model? We are making a film, can That's fine. How do you see life today? Times have been hard It's also complicated because But a lot of the times it's Scarcity causes prices to go up. We can't do anything We can just adapt to the situation. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Right now, we're Please, remain sitting, and What are you filming this for? To show my wife. You know she's going Of course, yes. You know, you have a Yeah, this guy is getting All right, we'll do It's just stunning here. Ladies and gentlemen, the We take out the big boat. Wait, is the captain filming at the same Yes, sir. What kind of captain is this? What's the secret to a long ride? Don't worry about anything. Why you have to worry? If you If you know it's not going Don't worry, be happy. Life is very short. When you die, you leave Today is a gift, Tomorrow, they Learn, and you're gonna Young guy, strong. For the last day of our journey, we decided to take a road trip to one of Lake Coatepeque, which is actually a lake And once there, we had a few final This is the most famous volcano You go all the way to the Yeah. It's beautiful. This is massive. Look at those people, Look at this. I mean, you see the tinfoil roof, tinfoil straight up houses over there. - Metal sheets, That's what I'm saying, you see the different Really poor people living there with metal That's unfair. Why so many people, and other people, they have a lot. They waste money This is unfair. This broke my heart You can see it. This mother is a single I bet you 100% they don't because I don't see no But the government, they But they have to do something Do you have more hope now? I think this is the time now, with the And I hope it's going to Since Oscar had been deprived we decided to surprise and soon he'll find out - Oscarito, are you ready? - 100 % I think we're going on jet skis. I'm professional about Really? Ready, Capitan? I want to show you how to ride those toys. Watch out for your foot. No, this thing doesn't work. Right away, we just had a crash. Both Oscars tipped - We got the... This is not the last surprise. - There's one more thing. One of my favorite is being able to take my father on a So for the past week or so, we've been working with some so that you can see - Let's go, man. This is going to be a good one. Have you ever been to a helicopter? No, not even in my dreams, man. ( We tried to tell him that he doesn't have to worry That was incredible. Truly one of the most beautiful There was moments where seeing Oscar just take it all in and thinking about who had to leave this country Jesus Christ, man, this I never, ever in my life I'm dreaming to It's so beautiful. When I just left this country, Now imagine, they changed a lot. Yeah. To be in the helicopter Thank you, thank you so much. Amazing, thank you. This is the best trip I have never enjoyed Jesus, thank you guys. You can't choose And despite being born in some Oscar chose to risk and worked for decades to get his children El Salvador's future seems both but also remains highly uncertain. It's an experiment like never and only time will tell if To save a country from corruption and so one can only hope for the that their future will be brighter than the Oscar is now in retirement, soaking in the true American and can travel back to his country At a time in our culture where individualism hearing stories like this of true sacrifice and love for one's family reminds Nothing else ultimately, if not for - The best trip ever, man. Here, you can hold it, If you want to follow our next video, just give me a like and just It's called Yes Theory. Yes Theory. And visit El Salvador. This is an amazing city, See you next time, next video. Good luck. Ah, nature, the ultimate escape. Out here, the mountains don't And the trees, well, they're So step outdoors and Let the fresh air reset Because every step into nature takes you away from the noise and Out here, life is simple. No rush, no stress, So lace up, breathe deep, the only thing worth