There is this one barrier in Super Mario Maker, This one thing that just prevented us from The death barrier. Basically, we never found a way to transfer We are able to read and write information our beloved plumber dies the information always Death, was just a barrier we were not able Until recently. Because recently a way was found to transfer deaths in Super Mario Maker 2. So today we are first going to take a look afterwards we are going to discuss how all So are you ready? Let's do this! Okay so Mario's day at work starts like In front of an ouching saw-blade and a door. Once he walks through that door he enters As soon as the loading is over mario jumps flag afterwards. To his left is a small muncher note-block And there are two paths forward, but only So our plumber takes the only open path, and stage. There are koopas waddling around, there are golden coins trying to ruin everyone's day Business as usual. So Mario decides to happily make his way through threats along the way and trying not to get Mario! Why aren't you doing your job buddy. Mario. Well, uhm, sorry. Hm ... looks like Mario just doesn't feel Luckily that's why each stage is on a timer. You see, if our big red plumber refuses to and replaces him with his brother. Hooray! So now Luigi respawned at the flag-pole. Once again only the door to the left is open, to be bigger green, finds himself in a traditional So here is where this gets interesting. At the top there is a red coin, but this red See, this red coin actually carries information If Luigi goes for the coin, and is fast enough coin got collected gets stored permanently, gets loaded the layout is a bit different, Luckily for us bigger green is not only fast to jump into a saw-blade afterwards so that of the stage. Thank you green buddy, you will be missed! So here toad finds himself once again in the But, what is this!? This time the path towards the pipe is open, This is because the red coin got collected From now on this path is always the one that This path takes our mushroom shaped hero into Toad is now allowed to choose exactly one He is either allowed to grab a useful dinosaur, Looks like toad decided to go for the dinosaur. After hitting his head against the question dispatched. The other question blocks now become un-usuable shop.! The pipe now takes our jumping hero and his Collecting the red coin previously not only gave him permanent access to the shop, but are now actually less dotted, but pretty solid, Thanks to this toad has absolutely no troubles at the end. Hooray! Alright, so how does the shop system work deaths. Let's start with the shop system. So the reason why this shop system works here We simply use super globally loaded one way ELB. As soon as there are 100 entities loaded that to spawn new ones. One way doors are super global items, meaning The stage is set up in such a way that the room. Once we hit our surprisingly mushroom shaped and the limit hits one hundred. This spring simply pushes the item upwards no springs are allowed to spawn, since the Super simple stuff. Next the a bit more complicated trick. So first huge, gigantic, enormous and tremendous As far as I can tell he is the one who discovered he made a great quick showcasing video about You can find the link to it in the description! Okay but what is the trick that comex used? Well it's actually a really clever combination The most important two are the following. First red coins have super weird respawn properties, ELB or the normal sprite limit. BUT, and here's the catch. They only count towards it during their 34 So this coin here does not count towards the The ELB is at 99 here, meaning that the muncher If we however, try to spawn the other muncher, interesting happens. This muncher can't spawn, since the grabbing up one ELB spot. Once the animation is over the other muncher Cool, so that's the first puzzle piece that second one, is the really weird spawning behavior So to make this simple, here is the first Red coins, that got collected before grabbing We can see this in the stage we just took The red coin here gets collected the first hits the flag, meaning that after every death, So here is where this gets really interesting, respawnment. If all red coins got collected once, all red Yup, I know it's weird but it's how the We can see this here, here we start the game But if we now grab the red coin, and then The coin is directly below Mario, so as soon and counts towards the ELB for about half The stage is obviously set up in such a way every-time the game gets loaded. The coin only spawns if the other red coin During any previous try of the stage. So if the coin re-spawns then we know that try. And it also means that the ELB is at 100 for If the coin does not respawn then we know any previous try, and the ELB is also at only The rest of this contraption is simply this The muncher touches the note block within meaning that the note block only releases before. Ladies and gentleman, we are successfully we breached through the one thing I always cheated death, and as it turns out, it was Huge thanks again to comex for letting me I hope you enjoyed this little video, if you and maybe you feel especially orpheus today I hope that all of you have a wonderful day, Goodbye!