Chris Hedges: At the end of any empire, there are always a ancient Roman Republic, see clearly the looming bankruptcy of an inept and corrupt ruling class checked out of civic life and is entranced by the in his trilogy on American empire: Blowback; Days of the American Republic does a masterful So does Andrew Bacevich, who in his newest Bidding Farewell to the American Century, writes empire since the Vietnam War, a conflict he that our inability to be self-critical, to dissect followed on the heels of Vietnam, including the will have terrible consequences for Joining me to discuss his new book is Andrew Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft. A He is also professor emeritus of History and His other books include The New American War for the Greater Middle East; and After The Andrew, I want to begin with what you call say this is a virtual congregation, albeit more traditional religion. The church has its 1776 at a gathering of 56 prophets, and it the good Thomas Jefferson, chief author of the who owned and impregnated enslaved people - and what happens when you don't Andrew Bacevich: Well, if you don't pay fealty up being somewhat frustrated, which would be, I to my writing efforts. But what's the Church of another way of approaching and commenting which rests on a conviction that we are, indeed, and as the new chosen people, that we have a to transform the world in our own image. This, we can trace back to the founding of the it is something that really achieved maturity the present moment despite the accumulation of and that the prophets that we look to Chris Hedges: I mean, 1945, you could argue that at least for some parts of the world, and And yet, since Vietnam, this kind of rhetoric project power and what we do in the world. And I the language we use to describe ourselves Andrew Bacevich: What a great question, The persistence of myth when facts and reality You've put your finger, I think, even if at the end of World War II, and it would be at least plausible to be patting that notion has become implausible since Vietnam. of 9/11 when George W. Bush embarked upon his war on terrorism. Certainly the expectations traced their origin back to the claims made at But we saw in Iraq that the facts So you put your finger on the main question, I don't have a very good answer, although I those who wield power in the United States, economic power, those who wield power Because as long as the myth persists, Chris Hedges: Well, if their reference point is the myth itself implodes. And so, in a because it's impossible to Andrew Bacevich: But in a way it doesn't Chris Hedges: Right. Andrew Bacevich: Let's talk about the Afghanistan the biggest, by any means, if we look at the killed, wounded. The most expensive, I think, ends in abject failure. And one might say, is going to step back and reflect deeply on But as you know and I know, that didn't happen. political elites in Washington and the country And now today, as you and I speak, we're all war in Ukraine, as if the debacle of Afghanistan, Chris Hedges: Well, there was a story, I can't Paris after World War II, and the French and it was all about World War I, which of course utter denial of reality because reality is just so all late empires, where no one's held accountable, self-delusion. Does that characterize... I think Andrew Bacevich: Yeah, I'm not a student little I know of a couple of cases, one would determined to cling to its empire in Indochina and succeeding and simply exacted great costs, both of That was an empire that didn't learn, that was an I think you can say the same thing about the British leaders recognized that the but they exerted themselves to try to maintain think here the most illustrative case is the Suez control of the Suez Canal, and more broadly were and I suppose more broadly of the Middle So yeah, it's not just us. I think you probably even when the signs clearly indicate that Chris Hedges: I want to ask you a question as Carl Becker, &quot;For all practical purposes, what we know it to be.&quot; And then you go on and Becker allowed, but those truths invalid only for the time being. Put another Becker termed the 'specious present' have Andrew Bacevich: Well, and that's conjure up. We want to be able to pick I think, absolutely, the classic example the narrative that everybody knows: American reluctance to intervene in the European These are the shake-your-finger lessons that have Another way, I think, of saying that is that our narrow and exceedingly selective. And basically to reassure ourselves. To reassure can be sustained. That disappointments, whether whether it's the disappointment of the Afghanistan and that if we exert ourselves, if we try hard wars, that we can somehow turn this thing on with regard to the US proxy participation in Russia, then we'll be back on top. We'll be to the Russians, and then let's see what they Recognize the truths, the realities that I want Chris Hedges: You write that the process the old is organic rather than contrived interesting - It comes from the bottom up, Andrew Bacevich: Well, I think I was suggesting that we ought to recognize voices taken less than seriously. I think here an example I'm a critic of the 1619 Project. I think that being unfair to the supporters of that project narrative of American history that basically goes too far. That doesn't say that it's the positive aspect of the 1619 Project - And it's it does belatedly provide due acknowledgement going all the way back to the founding of Anglo So Black Americans are no longer a footnote. we credit them for the creation of jazz. That they now become integral to the larger to the narrative should not mean taking over And I think a proper appreciation of the role of African Americans since the we have to keep all the white guys in, and all and everybody else. It's a complex story Chris Hedges: Well, I don't want to get into a about Blacks or African Americans, it's about the force and the reverberations of that institution, Andrew Bacevich: Well, I'll disagree with sought to - Well, they tried to erase then I think it was acknowledged, but it And the 1619 - Maybe I'm wrong - The 1619 central. And frankly, I'm willing to acknowledge Chris Hedges: Well, but it took until the '50s Leon Litwack - Andrew Bacevich: John Whit Franklin. Chris Hedges: And then you had but Du Bois was kind of I want to talk about this, of what And you raised this question about, when it's the Afghan papers that the policy makers and the going to quote-unquote, &quot;win,&quot; in Afghanistan. The Vietnam War through the Pentagon Papers. But you regardless of the costs and consequences. And Andrew Bacevich: It's because they're in if George W. Bush had gone on national TV circa what, 2004, 2005, he went on TV and said, and we're going to persist. If he'd This is a disaster, and I'm responsible for this courage on his part, but it would've been quite like every other president down to and including and will cling to power as long as possible. that's the way politics works. And I think that's that permeates our politics, because the Chris Hedges: But why does Obama perpetuate Andrew Bacevich: Well [laughs], we'd have to we see frequent references to States as the most powerful person on the Whoever is US president actually wields a pretty long list of the things that but are unable to do because they are constrained by other nations, but they're And I think President Obama, who I intelligent politician who understood and, to a large degree, accepted them. Now, I wish Obama had pushed harder to bring about But I think that, at the end of the day, whether his own thinking, he conformed, he went along, a reality of American politics. I suppose Chris Hedges: You draw parallels between the through them quickly and then have you comment. be superfluous. Both were costly distractions. and senior commanders in the field Thanks to that incompetence, both devolved into behind a poisonous legacy of unrest, rancor, and finally, with both political and military elites has received a proper accounting. To what extent contributed to the debacles that Andrew Bacevich: I think to a very great 20 or 25 years ago. My own appreciation so that several of those items that you ticked off come to. When I was a serving soldier, very much proper lens to examine and think it was possible to conclude that If you took seriously what turns out to be bogus, but if you took seriously the notion that there that posed a threat to the well-being then you can make the case that employ US forces to try to prevent the From where we are today, all of that is utterly that our leaders fell for such a load who bought it. We're conscious of the anti-war of American soldiers who were told to go fight and followed orders. 58,000 people were killed, of Vietnamese killed, of course, was orders of I'm meandering here, but I guess my point is it takes a while to come to a proper understanding that is, if not entirely true, at least closer getting from Lyndon Johnson and Robert McNamara But sometimes it takes a Chris Hedges: Well, but those who do figure really represents your marginalization - Those who do figure it out in the moment and Andrew Bacevich: I think that's The power of the establishment, the power of those myths that we referred to to advance an alternative point of view I think we have seen that over and over and Chris Hedges: Well, you have a media that and I just want to read a passage you &quot;I am by temperament a conservative, and a that more often than not end up being hijacked by their own ambitions than pursuing high ideals. quo appears increasingly untenable. Incremental the moment is to embrace radicalism without what you mean by all that? Andrew Bacevich: [Laughs] I mean, I guess the pertinent question Chris Hedges: Well, exactly. Andrew Bacevich: What does this radical - Chris Hedges: Yeah, there you go. Andrew Bacevich: I'm not sure I know, Chris. that incremental change just isn't going to hack that brought me to that conclusion. I've never the many in the mainstream media seem to want this nationalist populist reaction from the right And I don't know that incrementalism - Joe that incrementalist offers a sufficient response But I don't have the six-point move the country back in a better Chris Hedges: Well, doesn't it look Andrew Bacevich: Well... I don't know. I mean, yes in the I think in many people's estimation, he was of the 20th century down to the present moment. respects he was a reformer. He had to reform the that with not perfect skill, but very considerable are not the nation that we were in 1933 - 1933 as much as I admire what Roosevelt I'm not sure that the New Deal Chris Hedges: Well, because Andrew Bacevich: Primarily in the realm - Chris Hedges: We're a post-industrial Andrew Bacevich: That's one big was designed to benefit white people. Chris Hedges: Well, yes. Andrew Bacevich: It was a predominantly Americans as an afterthought. They were not but certainly African Americans - Or, we say Americans, or Asian Americans, their interest did And today, a reform program would have to be far Chris Hedges: Great. That was Andrew Bidding Farewell to the American Century. its production team: Cameron Granadino, and Kayla Rivara. You can find