- [Man] I got a question for you. - Yeah. What you, what you need? - I just wanna know. Stop. I, I recently got Right? I've been working and, uh, you know company restructured. So, you know, they just went from what you know, I mean, I just wanna know, like, how you keep putting applications that you're overqualified or what you think you're worth. You're getting told you're So how, how you stay motivated, - Well, first of all let's look It was time to go for you. - Yeah. - And sometimes man, we don't jump. Sometimes we get pushed. - Yeah. - See God is really fair do something else and you won't do it he'll bring about a set of circumstances. - That's right. - That'll cause you, so now You can't find work. How Let's look at this for what it is. There's obviously something of what you was doing. But what you're trying to do is go back and get something similar to what you was doing for you was to move on So now let me ask you this. What is your gift? - I I'm pretty good in the kitchen. - Right? So why you at the computer store. See - Good question. - You see? - Yeah. - You see what I'm saying? - Yeah. - Your gift is you really but your former job was what? - Sales Rep - Sales Rep of what? - How beverages. - Right. But you good in the kitchen. - Yeah. - So now you're trying to When it's going against for. Your gift is in the kitchen. See, so you gonna go and counter against what it is you were created to do. So now you off somewhere you need to be somewhere cooking. You ever thought of that? - Yeah, I thought about it. But again, it, it, it's just I think that that's what - Fear is the number one cause The fear of not succeeding. So let me tell you something. You already laid off. What you scared of now, - You're right. You're right. - The opportunity for you in cooking, go to culinary and be what you really would love to do, - Right - Yes. - When you wake up in the morning. - Yeah. - That's why you got laid off. That's why you sitting here next to me. That's why you asked me that question. See God, he's slick, man. He's smooth with it. He'll put you right where you need to be and hit a thing, right you need Now you asked me for You ain't gotta get motivated. You've been given a second chance. - Yeah - So dog, I, I lost but it was the chance to get, look at me. - Yep. - This is all you doing. - (Audience clapping) - So what I want you to do, pursue your greatness in the kitchen. The Bible says your gift and put you in the presence of great men. - I appreciate that. - Your Gift. What, what do you really want to do? - I've been telling people a Jamaican food truck for a little bit. But it, it, like I said, Like I, I do it fairly well. Well, very well. Without a lot of effort, you So I, I, I learned a lot from her in the kitchen whenever everybody I was in the kitchen with hone in on what she was doing. So I'm, I'm, I'm definitely I was just talking to my wife right now. Like I'm really gonna you know what I mean? - Who, who is that? - Say it again. - Who is that next to you? - It's my wife right here. - Oh, that's your wife? Y'all got kids? - Yes. Oh, we have two adopted kids. Yes. - Oh Okay. Paige, you hear that? - Yes. He's he's got two adopted kids. He's 40 years old. - He's adopted? - He's no, he's not adopted They married, he 40 years old. He was thinking about getting But let me ask you something. Would you go to Culinary School? - Yes sir. I would. - He said, he'd go. What can we do? - We we gonna pay for the first semester. Well, based on his grades, - Where you live, man? - Valencia - Out here? - Yes sir. - All right. I got my, that one's There's a culinary school out here. I just called foundation director. It's $15,000 a semester. We will pay for your first We will pay for the second semester. - I appreciate it. - I appreciate it - You, I know, I know. - I know I know. It's all I know. I know I've been I've been there man I've been there - Thank you. Thank you. - I know, I know, I know man. - I really appreciate it. - That's why you came here today. I've been there. Somebody helped me one time. I've been there now. I appreciate you. - Yeah. - Thank you. - I got you man - Hey, you made it to I got a lot more that you're gonna enjoy. So just click to watch the next one and make sure you subscribe to