This is the development story of Super Smash and the events that followed. You will discover how Masahiro Sakurai and one of the most influential video games of in its earlier stages. So without further ado, I present to you, It all started in May 1999 with a post on the official website of Melee's predecessor, With series creator Masahiro Sakurai's platform to think about a sequel. He had gained some great experience with the a fraction of its potential. He decided to create a poll on the Smash Bros. in a theoretical Smash 2 game. The exact count was never confirmed, and Sakurai was included, or combined more minor characters The poll closed on May 31, 1999 with the following Ganondorf were top 5, with James Bond from Banjo &amp; Kazooie, Toad and Mew closing out He was adamant that the existence of the poll and on June 1st, even stating no sequel was But in reality, his mind had already been At E3 1999, Sakurai witnesses Smash 64's to Nintendo's upcoming "Project Dolphin" Sakurai saw an opportunity to create the perfect On July 5th, 1999, Sakurai had completed the for Melee, without any GameCube development kit, as they had only shortage of them at the time. Sakurai was determined to make the definitive be his most ambitious project to date. Development of Melee began in early Fall of biggest team he would work with yet. With this new game, Sakurai would put his and be laser-focused on making the sharpest Sakurai was obsessed with the "easy to learn, in game development circles as "Bushnell's Bushnell. It was the guiding philosophy of the Kirby The "Kirbyism" effect would be present that time were targeted too heavily towards He wanted to strike a healthier balance: the but also contain deep gameplay elements for He deliberately increased the speed of Melee, allowing moves to come out more quickly overall Another guiding gameplay philosophy Sakurai of Risk and Return. He felt the higher the risk a player's decision be for a successful execution. Furthermore, he concluded the game was at relationship, but also believed other game beyond mere playability. The controls, sound design, music, and visual could have a direct or indirect affect on gameplay, feels to play. Sakurai was known as a bit of a micro-manager, it was just right. As a visionary, he would come up with concepts articulating his vision. As a result, he would sometimes tell a developer repeat a phrase to get his point across. For example, when explaining what he wanted told a musical composer and arranger on the feel familiar, and to feel "refreshing." Sakai was initially confused with this request, cheery, or calm. Another example is when reviewing Sheik's the motion team make her animations "twist the team. Luckily Sakurai was persistent with his feedback, the team's work, allowing the project to Sakurai felt a tremendous responsibility to franchises that would appear in Melee, while as possible. He recalled when game developers would use He would sometimes be unhappy with how his "That's not how it would be" he would He wanted to avoid this at all costs in Melee, with the character and series creators themselves for animations, sounds, and other character-specific An example of this is giving Pikachu a "skull Red, despite not being able to learn the move In fact, Nintendo, Creatures, Inc. and the in Tokyo as HAL Laboratory's development easily collaborate with outside devs. The team decided to strike a balance between With the power of the GameCube, it was the visual fidelity on screen, so they wanted environments and animations. Sakurai would take full advantage of being he put it. However they also had to create an artstyle fox, armored bounty hunter and electric rat Era representation varied from the Mario cast and the Zelda cast from The Legend of Zelda: not being done yet, Samus' designs go back go back even further. Many characters and environments were given game series, the only visual references were An extension of combining new and old game These were collectible figures you could obtain items, and other elements with bits of information There were nearly 300 trophy models added imports from other games or promotional material like with the Tanooki Mario trophy, but the They were included to celebrate the rich history scenarios where characters outside of the Sakurai wanted Melee to be bigger and better There would be new characters, stages, items, also affect any returning fighter characters. For example, he gave every fighter a new move, some of the 64 cast's previous neutral specials, While Sakurai acknowledged that some players side special with using neutral special, he Characters from Smash 64 were rebalanced to an even taller second jump and Luigi's moveset A multitude of new techniques were added from Holding down Smash attacks, walking while wall-jumping, dash grabbing, pummeling, up were just a few of them. At one point, you could use the R button for Shielding made use of the GameCube's analog size depending on a shallow or deep input. Pressing Z also let you grab or drop items some characters to use their grabs in the Those characters also received grapple recoveries, wall in the air. Harkening back to risk and return, many of than others, but when executed properly, felt Sakurai also began to consider what hidden element he would include to reward experienced In fact, he would decide to include significantly When determining which characters to include had received from fans, including the poll With the GameCube console release only about characters first, with characters he could He decided to bring back the original Smash Ness replaced with Lucas, the protagonist limbo, they decided to keep Ness. Originally it was only thought possible to the time they had to complete the game, but team to use the resources they had to add Of the characters introduced in Melee, the These were characters based off of existing all existing animations and similar move properties. Even migrating characters from Smash 64 was from scratch, which is another reason they Of the team members, Sakurai spent the most - meaning every time a character was added, Unlock criteria for the hidden characters desired to create an alternative way to unlock the idea being that players who only play of the characters by just playing the game To fit Melee, every character was re-designed The first character developed for Melee was He was also used as the foundation for the dedicated designer who was in charge of them. Bowser and Peach were the most requested characters 1 and number 2 on the poll overall, so they Bowser was particularly difficult for the but not make him too strong. Peach's move references would be from Super Mario Advance was considered an inspiration, Advance, but Sakurai did not believe she was Her appearance is inspired from her Super Sakurai was a huge fan of the music from Dr. series, along with the returning Mario brothers Since Dr. Mario was the same character as be different, rather attacks and movement If HAL had more time to develop Melee, Wario his popularity in the poll. However, Bowser and Peach were higher priority, Another character from the Star Fox series since he had a similar physique to Fox and Like Dr. Mario, his moves were adjusted from his blaster making enemies flinch like Fox's Both characters would use their Star Fox 64 Planet was still in production and had not Mewtwo was a highly requested character, so Pokemon was especially popular around that Jigglypuff (although he was on the fence, seek an additional Pokemon character to represent giving the Pokemon series four reps. Pichu took the "deliberately weakest character" receiving corresponding tweaks to its moveset All Pokemon characters were given their anime Game Boy games, so they'd fit in more naturally. Masafumi Mima, voice director of the anime and direct the same voice actors for Melee Fire Emblem was incredibly popular in Japan, to add from the series. Although it required working with INTELLIGENT Emblem presence. Many characters from the series were requested, from the to-be-released game, Fire Emblem: He wanted Roy to play like an amateur swordsman, Marth, but a stronger neutral special, Flare Since at the time, no Fire Emblem games were cutting them from the NTSC-U versions of Melee. However Nintendo of America encouraged the too fun to not include. A Nintendo Entertainment System (or NES) rep of the more prominent NES games for inspiration. He considered the playable character in Urban Bike Racer, and Balloon Fighter, but had trouble Takamaru from The Mysterious Murasame Castle as the game had had no western release. Ultimately Sakurai landed on the protagonists The Ice Climber character would be developed would be known as "Ice Climbers" in western This unique mechanic was inspired from the game, and was the main reason for their inclusion. Mr. Game and Watch was a surprise inclusion The decision to add in the completely 2D character game memories, with the Game and Watch games ever play. As a result, he held a deep appreciation for on the industry was sometimes overlooked. Mr. Game and Watch was originally developed appearance, but this idea was scrapped since move around as the character. His moves represent a wide variety of games Zelda as the series titular character made transform mechanic, allowing the player to special - essentially controlling two distinct Sheik would end up being a character Sakurai of work as they had less reference material one game, The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Sakurai decided he would keep this transform - revealing Sheik as a fighter first and on. Young Link was added to fully flesh out the time only 3 games had Link as an adult, with Mechanically he was also a faster, lighter feedback of Link feeling too slow in Smash Ganondorf's inclusion was practically a He's only present as a fighter in the game Firstly, they were able to use an existing 2000, and secondly his similarity to Captain development by using existing animations. Sakurai also expressed some interest in Link's on keeping Link's appearance based on his from Zelda II. Despite Sakurai hitting most of the highly out as particularly difficult for inclusion: owned or partially owned by other companies. A James Bond fighter inclusion would also may cause issues with the game's rating, Pierce Brosnan, which would further complicate While Nintendo technically owned the Banjo-Kazooie to sell their shares in the company during At one point trophies from Rare properties scrapped, with the exception of the motion The intention was to use the Perfect Dark Dark was an M-rated title, a reference from rating, so they opted to use GoldenEye's using "Top Secret" as the origin in the The Cloaking Device item would be attributed of Perfect Dark. Two odd omissions from the fighter poll were series, who were dismissed by Sakurai since to avoid his personal bias regarding character had underestimated their popularity. Another character considered for Melee was but was left out due to lack of international She along with Wario, Dedede, Toad, Mew, Mr. received trophies instead, making Diddy Kong from the poll not to be represented as trophies Sukapon was also considered as an item in havoc, but was eventually cut due to financial being made and descriptive text written for This was likely due to Sukapon not being owned fluke, and they feared legal action or issues Melee. Assist capsules, where a fighter from another an item considered for the game also, but constraints. Not only did they wish to ramp up the number Originally they planned to give each series Front stages would be more straight forward, Unfortunately, there was not enough time to Game &amp; Watch, and there were no Fire Emblem One was planned to be based on a landmark Emblem: Shadow Dragon and the Blade of Light. It would feature catapults, a castle, with However it was cut due to time constraints. Also Sprout Tower from Pokemon Gold and Silver on Poke Floats, which re-used models from design. Pokemon Stadium was intended to have Pokemon had Pokemon appear and attack. This was cut, however many of the Pokemon through the Pokeball item. Three stages from Smash 64 made it in to the including Whispy's wind effects. For every stage, the designers went to a lot what part of the stage was walkable vs. outside faithful of a recreation of the original location The game's story would continue from Smash This time the toys would be represented as where they would duke it out. Satoru Iwata, head of Nintendo's corporate in an interview, "What's interesting about represent the Nintendo characters fighting toys of Nintendo characters getting into an In one of Melee's single player campaigns, like in the original game, or also fight Crazy Upon defeat, your character returns to its It's been speculated that this represents and the toys return to their dormant state. Trophies also played a role in the new single-player variety of difficulties. Sakurai wanted players to experience Adventure worlds of Nintendo, for instance starting of Hyrule, or escaping Brinstar. All-Star mode was an unlockable mode where which was inspired from The Great Cave Offensive fight through enemies with a rest area in-between. In fact, this very rest area's music theme Melee would also be packed with extra modes New Coin and Bonus battles joined stock and for-fun and the second being for fanatics, constraints, but managed to make it in. A new menu option, Special Melee, featured Stamina mode changes percentage-based combat games, and removed the results screen as a With the other Special Modes, Sakurai wanted from their own ingenuity and to create something Event Matches were included so players could narrative format, which could go a bit more While board the platforms from Smash 64 would with a stage for each character, with Sheik's Multi-Man Melee would be inspired from The game, with 6 different options play options. The team even implemented saved detailed records stats, all which could be deleted or updated Sakurai really enjoyed adding in extra features taking things too far. Melee was becoming more and more ambitious, Months had passed since Melee's development holiday or Sunday off, but as the New Year after all. ELEVATION Nintendo franchises represented, the team Super Smash Bros. Melee as strong as possible. Sakurai wanted Melee's presence to be big He wanted every element of it to be held to team of 50, he was prepared to put in the However, this came at a cost, as Sakurai's Often he would work 40 hours in a row, go working the next day. While he considered his current lifestyle hoped it would be worth it for a satisfying Not only was he working to finish the game would be introduced at E3 in the coming months. An idea struck Sakurai for the E3 reveal he Bros. Melee had its own opening cinematic HAL Laboratory hadn't attempted anything and the GameCube needed a proper grand opening. He got to work on storyboards for a special forsaking his planned New Year's vacation, developing Melee. HAL Laboratory had contracted 4 other Tokyo-based it. The entire opening movie was delegated across Its creation would be overseen by Sakurai As HAL was located in Yamanashi, editorial They exchanged hundreds of emails, and Sakurai with these companies - and during these in-progress work on the game. He was exhausted, but he was determined that Every visual and auditory element had to be While the visual component would be handled would be handled in-house at HAL. There were four musicians on the team, the had also worked on the music in the previous sounds and voice coordination, Shogo Sakai, They all worked very closely to produce the Throughout the process, Sakurai gave constant average for a director. For example, he had a very particular goal He wanted it to sound large, epic but also it both an analog and electric sound. The menu theme went through a number of revisions, trophy music theme, where it was better suited. Sakurai felt that the music in the game was He aimed to strike a balance by bringing something unique, but also familiar To ensure fans' satisfaction. Sakurai concluded that the only way the soundtrack could possess the authority he envisioned was to use a live orchestra. In fact, he was so determined to do this money. After deliberating for a while, on February an orchestral soundtrack for the game. The team at HAL hadn't originally intended to use an orchestra, but Sakurai was adamant, so Some tracks needed to be reworked, and with took over the original pieces of Melee's the opening movie music. At this point, the animation studio companies on arranging a new version, and scheduled During the day of the orchestra recording, with the in-progress early movie renders. In the studio, he was constantly checking very hard and taking as many detailed notes studios would have to reference. He would be watching the in-progress render orchestra as they were recording, looking Just after four hours, the orchestra finished He was rushed to the hospital the next day He was fatigued and overworked. But with so much done for this opening movie to development and share his feedback with This would be the only forced break Sakurai the very next day, he was back at it. Throughout Melee's development, the stage music would go through many revisions. The temple theme gave the team particular to his heart. The mood of the piece was inspired by Yotsua Sakai wanted to instill a feeling of eeriness playing the original Zelda's dungeons. This track alone had about six revisions, 15 minutes after presenting a version of the this." Here is an early version of the Temple theme: Onett's main theme was based on a rendition of the Bein' Friends song from Earthbound, by a saxophone, although it was never recorded. You can hear the early version here: unexpected directions, like in the case of Since the stage was set during the night, for a more sci-fi sound. Had the stage remained a daytime stage like the team would have created a more upbeat Sakurai also implored stage, which is the music that plays in the So he wove it into the theme. For the DK Rap, Ando had initially planned on recording it, but had technical issues, Due to this shuffle, they had to speed up W. Norwood Jr's vocals. This was because he recorded his voice over set tempo, whereas the background music recorded for each DK crew member. The recording took two days to complete. Even tracks that were composed electronically Would you believe that this track, Green Greens, a midi track? This was one of Ando's many contributions In April, Ikegami began recording what amounted Although he also had created the sound effects Sakurai, despite his usual habit of being for the sound design. Sakurai wanted every sound to make the player great," and felt Ikegami really nailed it. He liked that he took liberties and was creative When it came to voice lines, Bowser's voice character's more monstrous side, and away to taking Mario's nemesis. This was fully realized with Giga Bowser, Mode. Similarly, Donkey Kong had animal-like utterances Kong being voiced in most games at the time In Japan, the Star Fox 64 voice actors reprised cameos, however in English, the cameos would cast, including Chris Seavor, creator of Conker At some point, Peach used voice clips from Luigi's voicelines were simply higher-pitched versions of Mario's from Super Mario 64 and in some cases, weren't pitch-shifted at all. Dean Harrington was brought in to voice the announcer, as well as both Master Hand and An American voice actor and martial artist, in Hong Kong and Tokyo. When he came in to record his lines, he didn't after 2-3 hours of solo recording with multiple He wasn't given much instruction - except was just supposed to be insane. For the title callsign yell, featured in the requested to take a dynamic approach to saying For this he embodied a circus Ringmaster as just the right over-the-top vibe Melee needed Here are a few unused title shout He had worked with Jeff Manning, voice announcer he was involved in Smash at that point. To this day, Harrington considers his role with the legacy of the title. The game's menus were designed by Michiko technical, and slick. They were created to give the player a sense set apart from other game menus. Especially when combined with the main menu player hyped and ready for battle. Here's an early concept of the character to have animated characters on-screen when While the majority of these animations would go unused, part of them can still be seen in the victory animations of some characters. If you were looking closely, you will have noticed that the clone characters slide out underneath their base character counterparts. This was planned to be in the final game, but was scrapped last second. But the clone characters are still offset from the other CSS icons. Originally, each character would have an all-star intro scene. While they wouldn't be used in the final game, they were all completed, and you can see them here. Speaking of unused animations, Master Hand and Crazy Hand had four animations that would go unused in the final game, seen here. In the end, no animations would be used for this menu at all, using portraits instead. Here's an early version of the character selection screen. Some other scrapped features included an 8-player a trophy battle mode, where you could exchange Portal - which would allow players to obtain from the website. None of these modes got too far along before At least two partially-complete items were A timed mine item, which used the following a second mine item pulled from GoldenEye 007. A blind fold type of item was planned, with for a while. While characters were animated for it, the game. Like in Smash 64, final smash moves were planned limitations. Here are some of the sounds recorded for this Several in-game fanfares for single player modes were made that were actually left out Despite some minor cuts, Super Smash Bros. The team at HAL had jumped into high gear E3 was right around the corner, and luckily A playable demo of the build was created for glimpse before release. And even more impressively, Melee would be and would feature the opening movie Sakurai 4 months. This was just the reveal Sakurai wanted. THE REVEAL began. Nintendo's presence was all about the GameCube's prototypes of the console the previous year. This was the moment Sakurai had been waiting Melee, and the world's first taste of what Understandably, Sakurai was nervous. He hoped fans would react positively to the Satoru Iwata gave a brief introduction to consumers could expect. He then handed it over to Shigeru Miyamoto, Nintendo, to properly introduce the console. The opening movie was a hit. On the same day, the team launched the Super called News Flash: Smash Bros. Fist, which game. It had a recap of the information presented and the team at HAL. Melee's opening movie caught the attention approached Sakurai and asked if Sonic could Since the game was already too far along, Similarly, Hideo Kojima, creator of the Metal Solid Snake could be added to the game's The request originated from his son, who was 64, and wanted to see one of his father's For similar reasons, Sakurai had to decline. The next day, a playable demo of Melee was It featured a partially complete build of character selection screen, including Zelda, The only playable characters were Bowser, Yoshi, Donkey Kong, and Pikachu. Games were 1-4 player matches with 3 minutes Here is some footage of this early build of First, let's go over the stages shown at At playable kiosks, a promotional video would the stages. What you're seeing now are some of the least continue, you'll begin to see some more Pokemon Stadium was only shown with a completely material created around this time shows a Card game as a placeholder. Rainbow Cruise looks significantly different, this version of the stage. Incredibly brief footage of early Battlefield An early version of Mushroom Kingdom would An early version of Green Greens had a darker, wind. Fourside was simpler, lacking the multi colored Brinstar had no Chozo in the background at Yoshi's Island was much larger, with more Fountain of Dreams had a darker color palette final's three. Yoshi's Story was a much larger stage initially, blue off-stage platforms. It also had levers connected to these platforms, Temple had additional brown platforms and You can still see this part of the stage in Great Bay's laboratory was in the foreground enter into it. There were 3 steel beams instead of 5 to more Mask. Here's some early gameplay of the stage. Adventure Mode's Mushroom Kingdom stage version, and some other more subtle background differences. There was no checkered flooring at the end of the stage. Adventure Mode also played a fanfare upon final game, except for a brief period during Adventure Mode's Escape Brinstar stage's of Code Red. Another unused fanfare can be heard here as Lastly, we can see some early and unfinished effects. Sakurai noticed E3 attendees acclimating well holding one before, which encouraged him. In just a couple days, Sakurai witnessed players his determination to do his best for Smash The opening movie from E3 would be featured the GameCube, even showing before the film As its popularity spread to promote the game, the cinematic a bit more than he had intended. Fans speculated that Ridley, Samurai Ghoro, be hidden fighters on Melee's roster. So in early August, Sakurai made a post about all characters that appeared in the opening On August 24th, an early build of Melee was featured at Spaceworld 2001. Any convention center attendees were free The version of the game had a question mark as a fighter, with Sakurai misleadingly calling in a playable state. The quarter finals were comprised of 32 players, single 4 player 2 minute timed match, which with the same rules. The final two players faced off in a stock Murofushi, placing first as Mario, over Yuta place. Murofushi won a copy of Melee and a Nintendo It was crunch time for development, and the including removing a Pokemon from the Pokeball Originally, Ditto was intended to take the player during the fight. Ditto was scrapped, since it was far too late However, the item descriptions were already Melee guide, and as a result, Ditto's information A small Ditto cameo remains in Sakurai and team were unsure if they would With a date slated for November, they'd There was a fairly long bug report and the Thankfully, none other than Satoru Iwata would leadership responsibilities at Nintendo for debugging at HAL. He did an entire code review of the game, in the entire team to help. Due to this boost in productivity, the Japanese just in time for production. Sakurai and HAL's hard work was about to At this point, nearly 200 people were involved and many eager fans were looking to add the RELEASE 21, 2001 in Japan, with a December 3rd release Each region got two revisions, with builds 2002 respectively. They were released soon thereafter, with the A third revision, which was unique to the releasing in Europe on May 24 and in Australia Some minor differences existed between them, movesets, as well as fixing some bugs and Three of the fixes were removing a mysterious from Ganondorf while possessing the bunny Regional differences included an enemy swap the NES' regional differences, the Perfect earlier, and some trophy room differences. The game sold over 350,000 units in just the 250,000 copies in the United States in its Despite release in the final months of 2001, game of 2001. Over 7 million total units were sold GameCube game ever, with about 3 in 4 GameCube It initially retailed for $49.99, and would Choice series, and even become part of its $99.99. The game received consistently high praise of 9.6/10 from IGN, 8.9/10 from GameSpot, After release, Sakurai continued to answer News Flash site. He talked a bit about development, responded game secrets. The final post by Sakurai on the site was It stated: Due to the existence of hidden characters unlock criteria, a widespread hoax spread fighter in the game. An obviously edited photo by today's standard's fans. At one point to respond to this, Nintendo page on Nintendo.com to include a question in the game, which included the response: Almost immediately after the game's release, 2002, would host the first Melee tournament The event was held at Makuhari Messe International of 2001. First place teams each got a trophy, two copies getting two GameBoy Advance games, and third and Melee-themed stickers. While the main event was a double bracket, "Winning Brawl" was free to enter by anyone, to anyone who won at least two matches. The final four finals matches from the four and released on gold-colored GameCube discs Shortly after Jump Festa, Japan Railways held Passengers had to collect stamps from various pin badge. Participants were also given a chance to win There were only 30 winners. Mario, Yoshi, Bowser, and Peach were the stamps Link, and Mario being the pins you could receive A few more Melee products would become available On August 27th, 2002, The New Japan Philharmonic in Tokyo Bunka Kaikan Hall in Ueno, Tokyo. Tickets cost 3,000 yen (which is about $25 A CD was released in Japan of the recording Advance, and in the United States in January Power and Official Nintendo Magazine. It served as the official soundtrack of Melee, medleys of multiple in-game songs. EarthBound was the only franchise with a character In a 2005 Official Nintendo Magazine issue, Half of them were character cards, and the used as an actual game with rules you could Another early tournament, Toy Festa, was a with 15,000 participants across all store Store-by-store qualifying matches began on National tournament qualifiers began that Store-by-store qualifiers were limited to Each participant who entered received a random bandana offered as a special prize as they The first place received a special Melee pin with second place also receiving a movie disc. There were 124 Toys "R" Us locations in in the broader national tournament. Anyone who qualified for the national tournament got two expenses paid invitations to the tournament stay at Shin Takanawa Grand Prince Hotel, and Toys "R" Us. The winner received a trophy and a Toys "R" All participants were able to obtain a Melee Mario and Yoshi, and Samus Unmasked trophies, otherwise. Around this time, players began to uncover As a consequence of Melee's tighter, faster had discovered some physics quirks during However, by the time they did, release was were left in. One of these quirks was a specific manipulation could come into contact with the ground, and movement. Although the team didn't think much of this the competitive playstyle of the game, dubbed In one of the website Q+A posts, Sakurai even it up, saying "it can be used as a kind Similarly smooth landing or "L-canceling" it in a 2015 interview. In fact, Sakurai had intentionally hidden either only hinted at, or completely left He made his comments regarding them as ambiguous their own and figure out their own applications. However, he wasn't able to anticipate the competitive as it became, using a combination a host of physics oversights. Witnessing the results of this, Sakurai was reached these heights. As he reflected, he had wanted to deepen the carried it farther than he had planned, and as a result. Nevertheless, he still considers the game acknowledges how great it feels to play. At this point, Sakurai believed he was done Melee left things. He and HAL Labs had achieved the unthinkable maintained the integrity of dozens of Nintendo's a year. After the release of Kirby Air Ride in 2003, By 2005, Iwata, who had become the president for the upcoming Nintendo Revolution console out to Sakurai just in case he was interested for a sequel. Within the landscape of video games, Super history. Due to the love and dedication of Sakurai incredibly high standards they had, this ambitious games of all time, and enjoys a vibrant scene If you're interested in continuing the story competitive community would emerge and take the developers, I encourage you to watch The Metagame, both of which I'll link in the In fact, I recommend checking out the video description to view the variety of sources, articles, and other resources that made this video possible. Special shout out to Source Gaming for translating to share with you today. If you've made it this far in the video, And, if by chance, anyone who worked on Super I especially want to thank you. I hope I told a somewhat accurate account, have experienced. If nothing else, I hope I was able to rekindle Please know even 20 years after its release, For anyone who got value out of this, or learned you could take that help more people see it. If you'd like to support me and my work the description. Working on this video was a labor of love, Thank you again, and farewell.