I want to welcome in our Bloomberg special episode of Bloomberg Markets. with chair and CEO of Duquesne Family Druckenmiller. In 2021, you had written an opinion said the Fed is playing with fire. and you said that you hope that the Fed had made in 2021, the mistake of being What's at stake here? Thanks, General. In 2021, I think the Fed did a great job COVID in 2020. One of those actions was forward markets got it ahead to basically a zero I think it's for it was frankly for we were all fooled by COVID. we were wondering, you know, are we But it was pretty obvious, I'd say a which was the fall of 20, that we Unemployment, which I think had been precipitously. We wrote the article in the spring of 21 like booming. And the economy and the companies we everywhere. So they were buying, I think, 120 have been down to 95 a month by that And I think had they had a clean slate, to that degree with what was going on in But they were trapped, in my opinion, by It's pretty incredible from from the so obvious that we even wrote about it. went through 2% to when they finally They also bought 2 trillion of bonds So and it's quite different, I had a lot of inflation. As I said, the economy was booming. However, I'm Back then you go 13 months with eight and a half percent and is still keeping rates at zero and you're buying And then you points. whites of inflation's eyes. or 5%. Today we're still quite a bit above somewhere between two and a half and The economy. theory that monetary policy is rates. I'm a market animal. markets are better predictors than And when I look at look at the gold at a record high GDP above trend, bank earnings and forecasts look good. Crypto going crazy, you name it. they wanted to see the whites of data dependent as opposed to forward not a quarter, which is what they yet. that monetary policy is restrictive. the conviction I had in 21 that we wrote be wrong. doesn't I don't think it makes any sense laid out and commit themselves through And what I what I was trying to say when it reminds me of 21 is I just hope if certainly haven't since. this time and they're not trapped by the 21. 50 basis points was an absolute mistake? an inflationary spike in the way we saw Yeah. earlier? Certainly one that investors have been And while, you know, even if we don't inflation came down from a remarkably think 21 peaked at nine. seventies. The Fed was easing because they had the So the Fed started easing and inflation at a 12% when Volcker came in and I'm not predicting that. financial markets and we have the fiscal certainly a risk. be taking that risk into account. basis points, and I think the markets meeting. It's funny, my my friend Jim Grant, they're not really data dependent. And that's what they're showing again. he is right, but it's a big risk because takes off because monetary policy is in expansion going on and they have to could be a nightmare for markets and Fed. you can't make multiple mistakes that But I'm not predicting I'm just saying this forward guidance? Fed independence. Are you concerned about the independence In an interview just a day ago with Micklethwait, he said that the job at a month and say, let's flip a coin. colleague, Scott Bessant has been the idea of a shadow Fed chair. this juncture? of talk is a horrible idea and However, I think where Trump to be I think a bigger threat to the Fed would Fed. soft landings and fine tuning. The real job is to avoid the kind of crisis, which in my opinion, were them create a housing bubble. initial actions, but sticking with it buying bonds with the money supply they've got to stop the fine tuning and committing yourselves now and then. inflation starts going up again, that landing. another big uncertainty ahead beyond election. playbook is around this election cycle scenario is and how you set up for it. I if you had asked me this 12 days ago, as to the total costs up. going to win on the election. indicators for the economy and for I also like them for elections. Ronald Reagan in 1980, despite what the And I must say in the last 12 days, the is very convinced Trump is going to win. can see it in crypto, you can even see But throughout the whole, I would say, we had deregulation, will benefit from So. God there's not one in my head, so this I wouldn't say that. favorite to win the election now, but No one even responds to them anymore. I think the delta between, red sweep, Congress. First of all, I think the blue sleeve Even if Harris wins the presidency, like the Republicans are going to win where you get a blue sweep. business confidence, lack of animal no change in the regulation front in You could get a you would have a rough to 6 months. the economy because equity ownership is high. So that's a blue sweep. depending on how you view life is, I So that playbook is probably going to be So what about a red sweep? more likely than a Trump presidency with with a blue Congress. votes for Trump is probably not going to The transfer are valid for a Democrat in A red sweep. business community. and there might be some sort of in terms of the business community. potentially stronger for 3 to 6 months. reasons and because I think bond yields outlook. the fixed income markets, which could But any view we have to calm family where we're worried about bonds. market. market. than the symptoms are, still look like I also think under a red sweep, the Fed, maybe because of past relationships, would be under a Harris administration. playbook and the responses to it under a Congress, probably not a lot of change terms of trying to figure out what's I want to remind our viewers, if you're by with Stanley Druckenmiller for our Of course, he leads the Duquesne family And you we're talking through each But what about your personal views here? mentioned that you wouldn't vote for Which concerns you more. Which concerns me more. New York Times. against. either one of them. concerns you are and I certainly will them. they're actually unified on some things Both of them think apparently the allocating capital, which I find Sonali bizarre. I'm a I'm a reader of Tom Friedman and And he was constantly pointing out how superior to the US model. and their roads and how they could Well, my long xxxx suspicions have all know, a disaster with that model. Democrats, have adopted industrial Reagan capitalism to the side. equally bad. of and I think this anti-business and Well, frankly, I, I grew up in America George Washington, Thomas Jefferson. where there was a certain dignity in And I don't judge anyone who wants to But for me, it's just a red line. go to the polls. Trump has put forward, a day ago, he most beautiful word in the dictionary. economists believe that this could have consumer. Well, I don't like tariffs. car plus. bit of a blowhard. with with our foreign adversaries and I don't think it will be in the world. I am not in favor of tariffs. You know, it's interesting, by the way, tariffs. tariff policy either. At the end of the day, you have been the US debt load, the fiscal situation. candidates would increase the federal The Committee for a Responsible Federal administration would. away with extending the tax cuts from Or is there another way to really close Look, in my world, the less taxes the But includes compromise. for spending cuts, I could definitely I will say one thing I don't which compares fiscal irresponsibility irresponsibility with spending. I'm a fiscal hawk. about out and whether we have a soft landing This is big stuff we're talking about. additions addition to the capital stock. stock replaced by government spending. the two sins tax cuts are less. you can't just do tax cuts if you don't And it was Trump to me that took And that's where the money is. responsibility also. only have a little bit of time left with I want to talk about the market and I certain wagers that you put on. you had said that it would be something And ever since then you held it for a selling it off. have you been selling? it again? investment career. probably in somewhere between 809 50. own. nonetheless, 400 points. by the way, when I when I saw you at ago, I fully expected to own it for change. I'm not Warren Buffett. But what changed is it tripled in a And I, I thought the valuation was rich. A.I., and there's still many ways we're infrastructure that's been built out to And yes, I think it really is a come down, we get involved again. a bad sale there. ask you really quickly, we don't have a you expressed a lot of your views The ten year hit 4.1% again recently. where do you think it ends next year? I don't know what very short means. because we thought it was a mistake. It's not so much. short term, what I what I do believe if inflation accelerates next year, bonds a lot a lot of basis points, hundreds. or 30 basis points short. the ten year should trade around where percent. bonds.