Hi Jakob! - Hello! Maybe just tell us why you're here. I'm here in Graz for the ten year And what's the last time That's a good question. I'm not even sure when the last time was. Must be a couple of years ago, actually. You had, like, several years of How do you feel right now? Right now, I'm, still a bit I was fighting or am still fighting That basically started after the games. I rested, like for a week And, resting I mean, overall, I'm obviously Yeah, I was also kind of relieved Not that I didn't enjoy it. I loved being at the games and But still, it was obviously mentally And it's in your head You just train so hard, for, like, basically one of Like, having this big goal really sets free a lot of energy But at the same time, it's and physically. So once it's over, it's And it was nice to have like a few weeks or competitions. I definitely think it was And it really I mean, fact is, the Olympic Games is It gets a lot of attention and it's still, I feel like for me it's a great and people out there with climbing or ever heard about climbing because of the Olympic Games and actually Because as someone who loves makes me happy. If there is more and more people tthe thing that I love doing Where does it deviate the most from from your idea I mean, I think one thing or one that climbing has It's just it's an amazing sport. And I feel like more and more people gym climbing, feels like it's Like there is more and more bouldering built in bigger cities. And that's also why And I think if all those climbers would also climb outside, Because, yeah, a lot of them How you're supposed to climb outside, how you're supposed to treat nature, growing up in a city and you're It's something you really need to learn behave yourself basically once you're climbing outside on the rocks, will definitely be one of the challenges once our sport is growing even more that start climbing in a gym, Do you have a solution for this? Where should we maybe try to teach or inform new people? Is it the responsibility of the gyms Oh, that's a difficult question. is kind of responsible for it, that have, a loud voice channels and climbing gyms, people But yeah, overall it's just good yeah, those things are communicated We were talking about What do you think? What opportunities do athletes have It's pretty difficult to influence because also a lot of those decisions But still, there's like a bunch of things when it's about route setting, whether some of them could be better or when route setting was particularly bad. And I'm not talking about styles which is really subjective. But sometimes the difficulty of boulders, is completely off. It's sometimes annoying route setters have done a really bad job and they get over and over although they And yeah, in general, I mean, I'm So they're we also try to, tell the IFC all the problems within the competition scene or things And I think there is still, within the IFSC and competitions, When you hear the commentary the styles you like, the styles Are you content with this new school Or if you could decide, would you change this Yeah, I mean, that's a difficult question. That's what I'm saying. Like, that's very subjective. What kind of boulders But I definitely think sometimes some competitions Like whenever we talk about new school not the right term. I know people use it I don't think it's the right term whatever route setters decide An old school could be a new school. It's more about like, the holds like, a lot of the route So I feel like the new holds determine And obviously volumes get bigger have gotten way bigger, And that's also why bouldering has changed And there is so much crazy dyno stuff. And yeah, I do feel like there is often comps where finger power is like, not like not important at all. And that's definitely a deficit, that are just very important, in rock climbing should at least have I'm talking about steep walls and holds, and body tension And, if we have comps which are either a slab or a dyno I feel like yeah, think, or I would love to see climbing Always at least be a sibling of rock climbing and not a completely different sport. But do you think then that maybe we need two bouldering That they are different sports? I don't necessarily think so. No, I don't know. I mean, yeah, I mean, I'm not sure. The thing about this discipline is also that obviously there's people that are better at it than others, they have like And I think one problem about bouldering it can be not as cool to follow sometimes as like, lead or even other sports Like if you have a winner of a World Cup, so Sohta Amagasa and then in the next World Cup, he's It's strange, within the competitors tiny amount of athletes that, consistently make it to a final and you really lose out on stars Like, tennis would have been And, same goes for like lead climbing, myself, Alex and now the newcomers And then if in bouldering every single final, it's not as exciting. I'm not saying it's exactly this way Sorato, who is so good at everything, does make you consistently, a lot of athletes that make it I do feel like there's many there is quite a lot of randomness in it. There is things that you can't control for example, And it's also about luck And that's And I think it also makes it less cool it feels like it's And, that's a bit of a problem because I do think there is a place and the coordination boulder, but then there's still needs to be like 2 or 3 boulders yeah, are always the same people performing If you look ten years back we had something like that who dominated. Did the style change or was Kilian so strong I mean, Kilian was obviously very strong, but also, yeah, There was like a few more climbers that were really consistent back for example, or but yeah, I mean, whoever did it, especially in But yeah, I think the field has changed, Like, there is way more like strong people I mean, I also used to compete back then and back then I think that's like the biggest thing, then to make finals, And nowadays, like if you just mess up Even though you might in another round That's how close together the field is. And then also, yeah, the, the boulders feel so much harder to read often, So it's much easier to make mistakes, And I guess Janja (Garnbret) is just, I mean, yeah, Janja is just so much better doesn't matter what she does. I feel like she's just, It's crazy. So. Yeah. What do you think? Where is our sport It's hard to say where our, I think there is also always, like, some distinctions to be made, rock climbing and then maybe also hobby climbing or gym climbing as a hobby. Because I think that's the thing the most over the last years. And competition climbing, still has way more space to grow, so many more climbers in the world But still, competition climbing that there's still so much possibility even without our scene, and make make the sport interesting to watch for everyone who loves climbing I think it also depends obviously on the decision. Which disciplines are going to be Olympic, That's also a big decision Yeah, yeah, big weight on it. Our sport is developing right now Underneath, like the decisions that were made that we are like having disciplines like the combined discipline And then the World Cups don't play a role in the qualification And a lot of the best athletes mostly care Games and qualification for Olympic Games, So that kind of sucks, and I think really has to solve, if we get all disciplines to the games, But yeah, in rock climbing, I think there's potential for 9c+ or even 9A+ boulders, which we will probably get So, I'm really excited what's going to happen. But I think our sport is, After all, it's still a young sport. What do you do the next weeks or month? What's Yeah. I mean, for me, it was clear that, I'm until the Olympics. Try to be my best shape possible. But then after the Olympics, comps this year And I was really looking forward to it. And. Yeah, so now I already did where I climbed some amazing lines deep water soloing, with a lot of videos And, my next big goal of the year One of the thre 9c's in Verdon in France. First ascended by Seb Bouin. And yeah, I'm going to go there and then probably do another trip finally, not just do the first Okay. Yeah. - Thank you for doing this Thanks. Was great having you.