Translator: Midori T (Video starts) (Video ends) That was Cellos on Fire, a metal band in which I used to play and [inaudible] even And I remember, you see, how happy I look. I remember how much I loved and sometimes offstage as well. It was for me, as a classically a way to disconnect Today, I spend most of my time I don't only walk my dog, And I simply love to work And it truly inspires me to study and work on the great works When I get to study Beethoven, there is something deep inside me when I was with Cellos on Fire, because Beethoven had that raw, to put music into your face. And with no doubt, he shocked as a loud and also noisy composer. And with no doubt, he was therefore (Laughter) But why is it that at his time the people could not understand his music, and yet today we consider him one Well, Beethoven Before he was even a teen, he was almost beaten to death twice And in his early 30s, and by the end of his life, He never truly had a woman, He used to move a lot in fact, his apartments with manuscripts all over the piano and uneaten food that had been hanging And he also got frustrated in fact, one day, the Prince Lichnowsky, had threatened to fire him because he would not accept who were passing by his castle. So they got into this big and Beethoven, very frustrated, But before he does that, he leaves on which it said: &quot;Prince what you are, what I am, I am through my own efforts. There have been thousands of princes but there is only one Beethoven.&quot; How arrogant is that? But that was Beethoven, And while life could only offer him his music was about triumph and joy. So when he started to give people just couldn't figure out Because while just before him, Mozart would start a symphony (Playing piano) (Music ends) Beethoven, for instance, with these 2 massive chords. (Playing piano) And later on in the same piece, he would use even more (Playing piano) (Music ends) Can you imagine who was hoping for some light concert loud music in their face? And people also thought Beethoven had this very annoying way He would endlessly bang like in the last movement (Playing piano) (Music ends) People also thought he had very poor and probably the most boring comes from his 7th Symphony (Playing piano) (Music ends) Not very interesting. Three different notes and he uses them Not much more original than maybe (Music) (Music ends) So you have got Lady Gaga on one side, (Playing piano) (Laughter) Brilliant, isn't it? you have Beethoven, which is maybe (Playing piano) (Music ends) Some of you might think they went (Laughter) But in all cases, did you know people thought he had a very poor talent interesting melodies, and they certainly didn't think he had And all that can actually be true but that would be misunderstanding We were talking about his lack Let me play for you one of his most (Playing piano) Now I hope you know this one. And if you think this is a melody, that it is a very boring Three repeating notes It does not go anywhere, it is not it is simply what it is. Totally unoriginal. And that's what people But Beethoven's genius resides with these three repeated notes So at this point of my talk, I want Because when I was in high school I remember having music classes, and sometimes it just felt so useless or to blow into a flute. Maybe some of you went through that. And I realized today that the main problem was that they've never taught us and understanding the beauty So you remember how Beethoven (Playing piano) Well, he uses this idea the same way your body (Playing piano) (Music ends) Did you hear how he uses and builds a first phrase out of it? That is way beyond your Justin Bieber It is. No, don't pretend. (Laughter) In all cases, let me play again and try to listen to how he develops those three repeating notes So from the beginning, from the top. (Playing piano) (Music ends) Now at this point, he is about to start and he is going He is going to use those three and build something more out of it. So, I'm going to play it for you, and I want you guys and try to follow how he So we were at ... (Playing piano) (Laughter) (Music ends) We could go through every single and find a way at every instance, a way to highlight how he uses And that is what makes Beethoven because he could build a whole symphony And that is the proof that sometimes Now, even though this is pure genius, you must also know how much Beethoven struggled to put together how much he changed, crossed out, and wrote an unbelievable before finally writing down When you take a look like this one from his 9th Symphony, you really feel and see the agony this man was having. He just couldn't figure out Here is another one. And even though a lot of people thought he was some kind of freak, he held on to that heavy metal And even though he was the same way Cellos on Fire and Lady Gaga But Beethoven's masterpieces, how ever different they are, were Listen to this. (Playing piano) (Music ends) Thank you very much. (Applause)