Oh my goodness! I'm at Harvard! Wow! To President Faust, my fellow honorans, Carl so much, and James Rothenberg, Stephanie Wilson, friend Dr. Henry Lewis Gates. All of you alumni, with a special bow to the dollars. And to you, members of the Harvard class of Hello! I thank you for allowing me to be a part of and the commencement of your next chapter. To say that I'm honored doesn't even begin accompanies an honorary doctorate from Harvard. Not too many little girls from rural Mississippi And I can tell you that I consider today as for you all and then teary for myself, I consider and a blessed journey. My one hope today is that I can be a source I'm going to address my remarks to anybody felt screwed by life, this is a speech for Actually I was so honored I wanted to do something I wanted to be able to have you look under and doctor degrees but I see you got that I will be honest with you. I felt a lot of pressure over the past few share with you that you hadn't heard before I did not. But then I realized that you don't have obsessive Type A personality. But it helps. And while I may not have graduated from here as they come. You know my television career began unexpectedly. As you heard this morning I was in the Miss That was when I was 16 years old in Nashville, having to have red hair in order to win up So they were doing the question and answer win under the swimsuit competition. So during the question and answer period the you like to be when you grow up?" And by the time they got to me all the good So I had seen Barbara Walters on the "Today like to be a journalist. I would like to tell other people's stories lives and the world." And as those words were coming out of my mouth This is pretty good! I would like to be a journalist. I want to make a difference. Well I was on television by the time I was And in 1986 I launched my own television show at first. I was nervous about the competition and then every year, pushing, pushing, pushing myself Sound familiar to anybody here? Eventually we did make it to the top and we The "Oprah Winfrey Show" was number one tell you I became pretty comfortable with But a few years ago I decided, as you will find new territory, break new ground. So I ended the show and launched OWN, the The initials just worked out for me. So one year later after launching OWN, nearly new venture was a flop. Not just a flop, but a big bold flop they I can still remember the day I opened up USA quite standing on her OWN." I mean really, USA Today? Now that's the nice newspaper! It really was this time last year the worst I was stressed and I was frustrated and quite It was right around that time that President I thought you want me to speak to Harvard What could I possibly say to Harvard graduates, world in the very moment when I had stopped So I got off the phone with President Faust It was either that or a bag of Oreos. So I chose the shower. And I was in the shower a long time and as came to me. You may not know it. It's "By and by, when the morning comes." And I started thinking about when the morning was stuck in a hole. And the words came to me "Trouble don't shall pass." And I thought as I got out of the shower I be better for it. And when I do, I'm going to go to Harvard So I'm here today to tell you I have turned So, when you're down in the hole, when that for a little while. Give yourself time to mourn what you think learn from every mistake because every experience, are there to teach you and force you into And then figure out what is the next right And the key to life is to develop an internal which way to go. Because now and forever more when you Google 2013". And in a very competitive world that really one who employs a lot of people when I see and say, "Where is he or she? Bring them in." It's an impressive calling card that can years ahead: lawyer, senator, C.E.O., scientist, or late night talk show host. But the challenge of life I have found is tell a story about what you want to be but It's a resume that doesn't just tell but why. A story that's not just a collection of really about your purpose. Because when you inevitably stumble and find that will get you out. What is your true calling? What is your dharma? What is your purpose? For me that discovery came in 1994 when I to collect pocket change in order to help She raised a thousand dollars all by herself girl with a bucket and big heart could do So I asked for our viewers to take up their from pennies and nickels and dimes, we raised to send one student from every state in the That was the beginning of the Angel Network. And so what I did was I simply asked our viewers, wherever you sit in life. Give me your time or your talent your money And they did. Extend yourself in kindness to other human And together we built 55 schools in 12 different were devastated by hurricanes Rita and Katrina. So the Angel Network -- I have been on the Network that actually focused my internal It helped me to decide that I wasn't going of my shows, my interviews, my business, my I might pursue would be to make clear that and compelling than anything that separates Because what had become clear to me, and I in the beginning because as I said I had been But around '94 I got really clear. So don't expect the clarity to come all but what became clear to me was that I was used by it; to use television to illuminate So this Angel Network, it didn't just change lives of those who also did the helping. It reminded us that no matter who we are or it is both possible and more importantly it purpose and common effort. I saw something on the "Bill Moore Show" It was an interview with David and Francine They lost their 7-year-old son, Ben, in the And even though gun safety legislation to voted down in Congress at the time that they how they refused to be discouraged. Francine said this, she said, "Our hearts I'm going to tell them what it's like love, and I'm going to do that without fighting And then her husband David added this, "You doesn't agree with you, because the minute And we cannot do that any longer. The problem is too enormous. There has to be some way that this darkness In our political system and in the media we is polarized, that is paralyzed and is self-interested. And yet, I know you know the truth. We all know that we are better than the cynicism Washington and the 24-hour cable news cycle. Not my channel, by the way. We understand that the vast majority of people checks because they realize that we can uphold that is robbing us of our children. They don't have to be incompatible. And we understand that most Americans believe undocumented immigrants who reside in this our laws and at the same time embrace the generations of huddled masses to our shores. We can do both. And we understand. I know you do because you went to Harvard. There are people from both parties, and no and families should have access to healthy public education because here in the richest of security and opportunity. So the question is, what are we going to do Really, what are you going to do about it? Maybe you agree with these beliefs. Maybe you don't. Maybe you care about these issues and maybe of 2013, are passionate about. Maybe you want to make a difference by serving Maybe you want to launch your own television Or maybe you simply want to collect some change. Your parents would appreciate that about now. The point is your generation is charged with politic has thus far made impervious to change. Each of you has been blessed with this enormous school. You now have a chance to better your life, of our country. When you do that let me tell you what I know That's when your story gets really good. Maya Angelou always says, "When you learn, When you get, give. That my friends is what gives your story purpose So you all have the power in your own way so, your class will be armed with more tools generation in history. I did it in an analog world. I was blessed with a platform that at its day. Now here in a world of Twitter and Facebook in just seconds. You're the generation that rejected predictions by showing up to vote in record numbers in And when the pundits said, they said they disappointed, you'd be too dejected to repeat and you proved them wrong by showing up in That's who you are. This generation, your generation I know, has Can you say "B.S." at Harvard? The spin and phoniness and artificial nastiness I know you all understand better than most authentic way of being, honesty, and above I have to say that the single most important single day to people, was that there is a Most of us, I tell you we don't want to What we want, the common denominator that to be validated. We want to be understood. I have done over 35,000 interviews in my career always turns to me and inevitably in their I heard it from President Bush, I heard it I've heard it from heroes and from housewives. I've heard it from victims and perpetrators I even heard it from Beyonce and all of her She finishes performing, hands me the microphone Friends and family, yours, enemies, strangers exchange I will tell you, they all want to Did you hear me? Do you see me? Did what I say mean anything to you? And even though this is a college where Facebook go out and have more face-to-face conversations That you'll have the courage to look them help make sure that the speed and distance us to lose our ability to stand in somebody as a people. This is imperative, for you as an individual, "There has to be some way that this darkness whose little boy was massacred on just an So whether you call it soul or spirit or higher there is a light inside each of you, all of if you let it. And as a young girl from rural Mississippi easier than pretending to be Barbara Walters. Although when I first started because I had Barbara, talk like Barbara, move like Barbara the news and I called Canada "Can-a-da," I cracked myself up on TV. Couldn't start laughing and my real personality can be a much better Oprah than I could be I know and hesitation about leaving the comfort of to the test. But no matter what challenges or setbacks the way, you will find true success and happiness only one, and that is this: to fulfill the as a human being. You want to max out your humanity by using and the people around you. Theologian Howard Thurman said it best. He said, "Don't ask yourself what the Ask yourself what makes you come alive and is people who have come alive." The world needs ... People like Michael Stolzenberg When Michael was just 8 years old Michael cost him both of his hands and both of his And in an instant, this vibrant little boy changed forever. But in losing who he once was Michael discovered He refused to sit in that wheelchair all day he learned to walk and run and play again. He joined his middle school lacrosse team victims of the Boston Marathon bombing would that darkness with light. Michael and his brother, Harris, created Mikeysrun.com the time Harris runs the 2014 Boston Marathon. More than 1,000 miles away from here these to support this Boston community the way their And when this 13-year-old man was asked about they will be sad. They're losing something they will never I was scared. But they'll be okay. They just don't know that yet." We might not always know it. We might not always see it, or hear it on but I have faith that no matter what, Class sure our country is okay. I have faith because of that 9-year-old girl I have faith because of David and Francine Harris Stolzenberg, and I have faith because today. One of them Khadijah Williams, who came to Khadijah had attended 12 schools in 12 years, prostitutes and drug dealers; homeless, going to bathe herself so that she wouldn't smell graduates as a member of the Harvard Class From time to time you may stumble, fall, you will have questions and you will have doubts But I know this, if you're willing to listen is the G.P.S. within yourself, to find out than okay. You will be happy, you will be successful, Congratulations Class of 2013. Congratulations to your family and friends. Good luck, and thank you for listening.