Today, we're building five secret rooms in our house to hide from a real bounty hunter. Ever since we were kids, we've always wanted a secret room. And now, we have five of them. These rooms will literally be impossible to find, and we're so confident about that, we challenged a professional bounty hunter to find all five of the rooms in one hour. And if he succeeds, we'll give him $10,000. The bounty hunter is literally on his way here, so we need to get started. Go, go, go, go! There's so many places I could build a secret room in this house, But I have to find the best one because this bounty hunter has literally found every single youtuber secret room. So, what if I cut a hole in this couch and build a secret room under secret he found a secret room underneath the couch before? I should be building a secret room in a place He's never found. I think I'm gonna go look upstairs first. Oh, wait! What if I build a secret room inside the air vent? Oh my God! Ooo, this bathroom is nice. What if I were able to build a secret room behind this one-way mirror? Sorry, twins. Oh, my... ears! I got a giant box here, and I'm gonna turn it into an invisible box using reflection panels. Let's get started. Check this out! Yeah! Can't even see it! It's not really invisible- Dang it! Meanwhile, I discovered a cheat So, I have the blueprints to this entire house here and just by looking at it, somewhere in this living room is hollow, so I just need to find it. and drill a hole in it AHHHHHHHHH! (screaming) Allan...! - Help! Yeah, I'm stuck! I'm inside the ventilation. I'm stuck! What the hell? Ouch! Help me! How did he fit in there? Let's look somewhere else, Sean. We gotta be quick, because we don't have much time. Ooo, this dog house is huge! Okay, what if I was able to move it into the pool and build an underwater secret house? Grrr! (grunts) Oh, I can't pick it up. But ladies, I could pick you up. So, I might have just come up with a genius plan. I'm gonna move the fridge up here. Cut a hole through the back of the fridge, And just build my secret room back here. Safety first! You know what, this gonna take ay too long. Unlike the other guys, I was actually making some progress. You guys hear that? It's hollow right here. Someone hand me a drill. Oh, you guys see that? Now that I found my secret room, my plan is to cut a giant hole in my living room floor And then I'm gonna put a bed over it to cover it up since no one has ever built a secret room under a bed Bbefore. Shawn decided he needed some fresh air after nearly suffocating in that air vent. So, he took a seach outside. What if I build a secret room on top of this tree? All I have to do is bring up this box on top of this tree and Oh- I'll grab that later! I'm scared. I think I should get a ladder. There's no way he's gonna check on the roof, So I'm gonna build a secret room up here. I'm scared of the heights though. Whatever! Oh, there it is! You know what guys, I'm just get down and look somewhere else. Wait- Where the ladder go? Where the ladder go? Oh, yeah! Perfect! (screaming) I'm not even half way up there. ooo, check out this fireplace. I could definitely build a secret room in here. All I need to do is take off this cover, bury myself in there, and I'll be good to go. What the hell are you doing? I'm trying to save you $10,000 by building the best secret room. This marble and fireplace cost $20,000. Yeah, look somewhere else. Wait, I could build a secret room underneath the stairs. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! Did you ever see the stairs are hollow? Oh! What is up with everyone trying to destroy my house? Meanwhile, I was finishing cutting up a giant hole in the living room. All right, moment of truth. Three, two, one. Oh my gosh. There is way more room in here than I expected. I'm about to turn this into the craziest secret room. Can you see me? No. Perfect. I'm gonna use this to maneuver around the house once the bounty hunter gets here. Oh wait! this looks like it's gonna come in handy. Thank you, Alan. I... I'm actually gonna look outside and see if I can build a secret room out here. Check this out! What if I build my secret room inside this underground tunnel? I gotta make sure there's no spiders in here first. Look at these spider webs. All right! I'm gonna shut in now. uh, hey! Someone let me out- What the hell is that?! Someone let me out! this is too heavy! This place is definitely isn't gonna work. Well, at least now I know there's a secret tunnel system below the house. Might come in handy later. Check this out! There's already a secret room right here. All I have to do is remove this doorknob, put a bunch of tiles all over the door. and disguise it into a seamless white Wall, he's never gonna know that there was a door here. This is literally the perfect place for a secret room. I can put a TV right there. now two of us have found our secret rooms. I just needed to disguise the entrance to mine. I just brought the perfect bed from upstairs to cover up my secret room I'm excited. Okay, that's perfect. Now, I have a secret entrance to my secret room. Tanner on the other hand has accomplished literally nothing. Honestly, I'm running out of ideas and time. So I'm just gonna have to use a secret room from last video. Check this out! Look how sick that is. Whoa, I bet you guys never seen anything like this before. Woo! Check this out! All we need is some snacks, With the bounty hunter on his way neither Caleb or Alan have yet to find their secret rooms. So i just found out this wall is hollow, which means there's empty space behind this wall for a secret room. And I also bought a wardrobe off Amazon a few days ago, and I'm gonna use that as a secret entrance to my secret room. Let's go grab the wardrobe. A little help could've frickin' been nice. I had to help Alex with the bed, he won't even help me with the wardrobe. So first thing I need to do is smash a hole in this wall, and then cut a hole in the back of this wardrobe and use that as a secret entrance to the secret room. I have to move the wardrobe again. in three, two, one. Wait, there's so much space in here. That's satisfying. I could live in here. Now Caleb was the only one left who still needed to find his secret room. I got the perfect idea. If I construct a giant wall and put a mirror on it, I can use it as a secret entrance into my secret room. I need to go get some supplies and turn this secret room into the coolest room ever. Since we're running out of time, we need to split up. So guys, take my credit card, buy a bunch of supplies. We're going to finish up. And Popeye's, and Popeye's. While the boys headed off to the store, Alan and I continued working on our secret rooms. That's sick, isn't it? All right, so I just measured everything out. And I cut a hole big enough for me to perfectly fit the wardrobe in front of this wall. Check it out. Woo, look at that. That's sick. All that's left for me to do is to disguise this wardrobe. Meanwhile the boys were finally arriving at the store. I'm gonna grab a bunch of LED lights to light up the secret room and some bulbs. like this baby. I'm gonna grab a bunch of snacks. so, I never go hungry in my secret room. We got everything we could need here, let's go buy some wood and building supplies. All right, I think one more of these should do it. Damn. All this wood is making my wood hard. Let's find a mirror. all this is gonna be perfect for the wall I'm gonna build to put the one-way mirror. Things weren't going so perfectly for Alan back at the house though. Guys, I just realized we have a huge problem. My secret room really isn't secret if there's a giant hole in my wardrobe So I just added hinges on the back wall of the wardrobe that I cut out and I'm gonna use this as a door to Get in and out of my secret room. We only have 20 more minutes until the bounty hunter gets here, lucky for us The boys are just now getting back from the store. now that we got all the stuff in the store It's finally time to build the secret rooms. Alan, Alex, we got your stuff! Now it's time for the fun part, customizing our secret rooms. All right, so I finally have everything that I need. Now it's time to transform this into the best secret room. Now that the door handle's off, I'm gonna use these tiles to camouflage the door. Guys, check out my security system. I literally see Sean right here working on his room. That's so funny. This is definitely gonna come in handy. Now that the outside's finished, time to design the inside. Check this out, bam! Just waiting till this room is done. Meanwhile, Caleb finished constructing the wall for his secret room using the wood from Home Depot. It's literally so heavy it took three people to carry it. Ugh! All right, looks pretty good, huh? Woo, thanks for the help. There's only 15 minutes left until the bounty hunter gets here, so it's time for finishing touches. The last step I have is to put this special film over the glass to turn it into an actual one-way mirror. Therefore, I can see out, but they can't see in. All right, so right now I'm just flattening it out so there's no air bubbles. I don't think there's any way he's gonna see in. Now that all our rooms are complete, it's time for room tours, but we have to be quick Because the bounty hunter is getting here in 10 minutes. So I'm finally done customizing my secret room. I can't believe I was able to turn it from this to this. Let me give you guys a quick tour. So I have my TV right here with my PS5 plugged into it ready to play. I have snacks right here. I also have a fridge with some drinks inside of it. And most importantly, I have my security system set up right there. That's right. We set up nine hidden security cameras throughout the house so we could keep track of the bounty hunter when he arrives. All right, guys. Watch this! you would have never known there was a secret room back here, huh? I feel like this is a secret closet from Narnia, but something's missing Check it out. I have an arcade machine here and a full-on TV with the Ps5 This is a medieval knight armor worn by an actual knight not to mention a dartboard right behind me here I could stay in here for weeks. that was bullseye, right? Let's see what Caleb did with his room. check it out! We got Netflix right here for the movies, of course over here we got my stuff. this is my favorite book though It's on woman's suffrage and over here. I don't think we need to talk about this part. well, that was creepy. Anyways, Shawn has one last thing he needs to add to his secret room. Oh, wait, I forgot the best part. I like them bows, gotta let them know my room's finally done let me give you guys a quick tour. I got some snacks, my shake weight so I can stay busy, and I got a TV and a disco ball. And lastly, my favorite, the Apple Vision Pro. Now no one knows what I'm watching. Sean, it's connected to all the computers. What? Don't watch my browsing history. Last up, we have Tanner's room. Guys, check this out. I have the best room yet. I got a TV, neon lights, all these snacks, even a basketball hoop. All right, that was a bad idea. So the bounty hunter gets there in two minutes. So we're going to set up some traps and decoys really quick to mess with them and waste his time. Come on, guys. These traps include balls to slow him down. That was obviously Sean's idea. A shower full of bubba's and a few other surprises he'll never expect. All right, looks pretty good. With almost no time left, some of us ran into some major issues. Wait, I ran into a big problem. I need to put food and drinks outside the pantry to disguise it better. I got to hurry up, I think he's almost here. Okay, so I just realized I have a huge issue. if the bounty hunter decides to lift up the badge like this He's gonna see the secret room Which means I need to try to cover up the entrance with something like a carpet or another door. Shawn, can you bring me another carpet? Shawn, please bring me a white rug. I know you can hear me. I got you, Alex! Thank God! Okay. I don't have much time. Hurry. Hurry. Hurry. Okay, Alex. You're good. Oh, he's never gonna find this. How does it look, Shawn? It's good! Oh, guys, the bounty hunter is here! (screaming) Bounty Hunter's here! Can someone help me close my secret room? I got you! Of course. I gotta get back to my secret room quick! There's no way he's gonna find me in here. This job's gonna be easy. I've found every YouTuber I've ever looked for. This could be just like the rest of them. As soon as the bounty hunter enters the house, he has exactly one hour to find all of our secret rooms. There's a couch. You know they've been making secret gaming rooms and secret rooms in these couches? (grunts) Why is he throwing everything? Nothing. So why would there be a bed in the living room? Come on, let's check it out. It's really sus. Nothing. I can't believe that. Oh my god. I'm so glad I put that part underneath the bed. Otherwise, I would have been the first one found. This might be a harder job than I thought it was. This entire place is 63,000 square feet. So I'm gonna look behind everything. Oh, that's so cute. - Nothing! Oh my gosh, look at that. I bet that is a two-way mirror. This is a really nice house I feel really bad for what I'm gonna do to it. I'm about to use the key to the city on this. (screams) I guess nobody was behind there, but it's gotta break a couple of em'. he broke the mirror. You know, I don't like locked doors, so I'm gonna get that door open real quick. Come out, come out, wherever you are! Clear! Why is he destroying my house? Let's go. Fall into the kitchen. I bet some of the people are hiding in the cabinets. He's in the kitchen, guys. Oh my gosh! Come out, come out, I know you're in here. Clear! Clear! Clear! Oh, man, wasting a lot of time. Wait, what is that? These snacks, they're going to keep me going. I don't know who they are, but they're mine now. I'm surprised he didn't rip out the cabinets. Wait, he's walking towards our first decoy. Eye holes? I'm going to need a battering ram Oh, no, please! Oh, God! Oh, fuck! Oh, no! Nothing in here! He just body-slammed our cameraman through the wall! So here we are now at some stairs. I'm gonna bang on each one to make sure it's not hollow. Come out! Come out! Wherever you are, I'm gonna catch ya! Clear! Hold it a second. There could be a secret room behind that vent. Come on, folks. Nothing! Man, nothing! I can't believe this! I bet Sean's glad he didn't actually hide in the air vent. Oh my gosh! This is a pink room! Let's go! Oh my gosh, the dummy! I literally hear him slamming stuff upstairs. I can't believe this! Clear! Meanwhile, some of the guys were taking advantage of the fact that the bounty hunter was on the other side of the house. Okay, if I get a bullseye, you guys have to subscribe. Woo! look at that! This is my favorite book. Okay, back to the bounty hunter. Wild goose chases again! Subscribe? they make fun of me. Gosh! Darn it! Okay. Honestly, you guys should break that subscribe button the same way. He just broke it. I can't believe it! My God! This guy is destroying my house! Would I save more money if I just let him catch everyone and gave them the $10,000? Clear! The good news is, even though the bounty hunter completely destroyed our rooms, we still managed to waste 10 minutes of his time. The bad news is, Sean ran into a huge problem. Oh, I noticed on the security camera that one of my tios fell out. I gotta go into the kitchen and grab some more. Since I have to run to the kitchen to grab extra tios, I have this invisibility shield here in case I run into the bounty hunter. I just heard someone run right by me. You know, there is something off about this kitchen. I'm gonna go check these cabinets out right now. What? Balls, come on, more balls, I can't believe it. He's just wasting a lot of time right now. Wow! They're gonna keep playing with me like this. All I wanna do is just get this job done. What?? Oh my God. That was a close call. I almost got caught. Wow! I need to check out this side of the house. I haven't been up there yet. Hold on. That wall looks a little funny. (laughing) I got you! (screaming) Get out of there! You've been caught!! You've lost! Your shake weight didn't help you! You're over! Oh, no! I think he found Shawn! Am I the first one? Yes! You're the first one! I need to know where the rest of them are hiding! Have you tried outside? No! Good job! Thank you! Wait, is he actually going outside? Good job, Shawn! But what about the bounty hunter? didn't know is that Shawn was actually sending him in the direction of our next decoy. Oh my God! This is a perfect room for a seret room! I can't believe I didn't come out here earlier. It's okay cause I got the keys to the city. Why is he tearing up my shed outside? Are you kidding me? Can he not just open a door? (grunts) What the hell? I'm going to destroy you! Woof! Woof! Woof! Woof! Woof! Woof! Woof! Woof! Our decoy did manage to waste another five minutes of the bounty hunter's time. But he was starting to get angry. Let's go. oh, please. We are running out of time. So I need to look through everything. Come on. I think it's outside my room. Oh, I've seen all kinds of rooms in places like this. Nothing! That was a close call. I honestly thought he was going to find Alan there. Check this chair. Nothing. Nothing. Why is he just destroying my room? Nothing! Gotta check all these pictures. Nothing! There's nothing in here. (sighs) come on. Okay, he just left. Oh my gosh. Would you look at that! There's gotta be a secret door under there. I'm pretty sure there's a hole on the other side and he could have just crawled in instead of kicking it down. Somebody needs to teach this guy to use a door. Nothing! Why do they keep wasting my time? Okay so he's moving on to the master bathroom. Decoy number three. Now boys, I'd love to join you but I got a job to do. I don't know if he was being serious, but I think he really liked that decoy Come on, let's check out this next room. I need to look everywhere. Make sure there's no secret handles, doors, or anything like that. Nothing! My trusted brush. this is crime scene dust kit. That is is real stuff. Okay, I'm getting nervous. No, no fingerprints but you know what? I bet you there's a million fingerprints here because you know what, I've seen a lot of two-way mirrors. dude, this guy is good. oh, my gosh! just like I said hand prints and fingerprints now I'm gonna turn off this light I bet you what as we're gonna see a room at the other side of this. there's gonna be someone staying on the other side of that mirror. Let me turn the lighs off! (screaming) Just what I said! Yeah now, I'm coming in, kid, you better hide! - No!!! No! You better sit down, son! What do we have here? A book on women's suffrage? That's weird! Has somebody watched Fifty Shades of Grey too many times? It's a good movie, man. You shut your mouth, I'll be down there and deal with you in a minute. Okay. What are these belts for, son? I don't know, man. What are these sitting right here? I don't know, man. I don't know, man. Uh, is this where you bring ladies? Sometimes. It's weird that you bring ladies in here, but there's no ladies that come in here, is there? You're weird. Quit watching 50 Shades of Grey. OK, OK, I'm sorry. Where are the women now, huh? Two down, three more to go. OK, so he doesn't have much time, and he still has to find three more people. Come on, I want to go back to the secret rooms I've already found to see if there's any clues. Now let me find the other ones. Come on. So I got a black light, and I can I could see any type of fingerprints or DNA. Oh my gosh, that is disgusting. Oh, God! Oh, no! I would have stayed in there if I was Zach. You get out right now. Listen, listen to me. You're going to tell me where the other people are, because I didn't get $10,000. Look at me. They're in there. You better open that door before I make you open it with your head. In the very back, in the very back, all the way to the right. Yeah. What? Oh no you didn't! Oh no you didn't! Are those shoes? You tried to lock me in some place son! You're gonna come here right now! Why does it smell like fish? And that's what you get, son! What the hell was that? Hold on a second! That's where I got my snacks earlier! Oh my God! Tanner must've been hungry. Alright, check this out. This is the coolest part of my secret room. Now I can grab whatever I want. I got some Oreos, that's what I want. There's gotta be a control someplace. Come on, let's see if this works. No, this isn't it! Now maybe, if I grab these, something might happen. Tanner! (screaming) Get out right now, or I'm going to come in there and whip you, son. Come on, get your big body through that little hole. Listen, son. You get out of here. No. Tanner stepped out, guys. It's literally just me and Alex left now. Another one down. Two more to go. Wow. I haven't even seen this part of the house yet. What's this? Ooo, somebody hiding behind there. What? Another decoy? Okay, maybe we should have made a rule saying that he couldn't break things because he's breaking everything. I want to do that to the next person I find. I got to be missing something in here. Hold on. Is that a wire? That's a security camera. You know how I'm going to deal with that? Goodbye, friend. Now let's go look for some more of those wires. I feel like disconnecting it might have been easier. I'm running out of time. I got to do something. Wait. Wait a second, what is this? This wire's going under the rug. Wait, I think he just figured out the wires lead to Alex's room. Oh my gosh, I believe there's a secret room. Right on this bed, these cables are running to it. Shh. Three, two, one. Ah! I got you, you're out. Get out of there, Alex, right now. No! Get out of here or I'm getting in there. I'm gonna hurt you, you kid. I have never seen a more expertly built secret room pulled off like this beneath the bed. You do realize you only have a few minutes left, right? What are you talking about? Literally just me left. I have to figure out a backup plan. After you get just some old tools and weird stuff. there's only five minutes left I really don't think he's gonna find this room. judging by the lights on in this room. It is most very likely a secret room Empty! Another diversion! I only have couple of minutes left. Wait! (whispering) I'm gonna- That's the same wardrobe I saw upstairs. They didn't close out the tab. They didn't close out the tab. This is bad. There's a secret room right behind this wall I'm gonna have to knock on You know what that means. That $10,000 is mine. What? He's supposed to be here. I can't believe this. Where is he? Hold on. No way. There's a hole in there. We're going to have to go down there. You with me? Let's go. Yeah, Alan! (cheering) I got you. Where's my $10,000? But it's been an hour and five minutes so times up! No! Absolutely not. I found everyone else. You're cheating! And in case you guys are wondering how I escaped, I used a secret tunnel I discovered earlier which is connected to my secret room. Our five minutes, I bet you clock You come right here right now! Oh, no! Oh, no!