They had cut their way out of their own tent even a fresh meal perfectly laid out and ready They fled in a panic, most shoeless and some cold weather clothes despite the temperature A few hundred yards away, two bodies were Several hundred yards past them, two bodies only in underwear. One of the bodies had third degree burns and its mouth. All bodies found were covered in bruises, The rest of the bodies wouldn't be found until deepen what is the greatest mystery to ever Late January, 1959, and a group of nine college on the trip of a lifetime. The group is made up of experienced hikers no Russian had ever taken. The trip would take them on a sixteen day of the native Mansi people. It would be a grueling ordeal, exposing the winds, but the route avoided the dangers of to the lowlands. The trip would require great endurance, but for the ordeal had sponsored the trip, brainchild of Igor that his name would go down in infamy as he Right before leaving however, the university to the expedition, Semyon Zolotaryov. At thirty seven years old he was fifteen years A hardened World War II veteran covered in His inclusion to the trip is never explained Zolotaryov was actually KGB. On January 23rd, the group leaves for Sverdlovsk, Using personal journals and one communal journal are able to piece together a very detailed up to the mystery that would claim all their Photos recovered from the group's cameras of happy-go-lucky college students and grads, As the group nears Sverdlovsk, Yuri Yudin The crippling pain forces him to abandon the Yudin hugs his friends goodbye, having no On January 28th, the group heads off into They are never seen alive again. Eight days after the group's expected finish begin calling the university and local bureau Search parties are immediately sent out, assisted Fellow students, prison guards, police, and the missing trekkers. Five days later one of the search parties of the 20th century. The group's tent is discovered on February a full day (use photo: https://i.insider.com/602daf9f42b84000192f4188?width=700&amp;format=jpeg&amp;auto=webp). The tent is above the tree line on a mountain It's partly buried in snow, and most mysteriously- laid out as if they had just settled in for Ski boots and equipment is stacked by the as if about to be eaten, completely untouched. What's not found is a body. Even more mysteriously, the tent has been Police wonder if someone slashed their way the police station where the tent is stored tent was cut open from the inside. That would explain the missing bodies. But what in the world could cause nine healthy, of their own tent, apparently in such blind vital cold weather clothing, including boots? Further investigation of the scene revealed way to the tree line below. The prints clearly show that almost all of fled the tent, and some were walking barefoot. The prints continue for several hundred yards There amongst the trees, two bodies are discovered The bodies lay next to the remains of a small only in their underwear. Even stranger, twelve to fifteen feet up in and clothing on the trunk, along with some One of the bodies has blackened fingers and Inside of the mouth is a lump of flesh bitten The other body has burned hair on one side Next, investigators find two more bodies back It's clear these two were trying to make their A fifth body is found a few days later, also This one is found with a small fracture on All of the bodies however are covered in cuts, Investigators are now assuming a homicide points to the presence of anyone not from No murder weapons are found, and no signs Toxicology reports come back clean. Investigators hope that the discovery of the the mystery. They would be wrong. As the snows begin to melt, a Mansi hunter shelter two hundred and fifty feet from the Inside the shelter is bedding made out of missing one leg, and the left half of a woman's Authorities begin to probe the snow in a search missing bodies buried under ten feet of snow One of the bodies has a head injury so severe the brain. Two others have crushed chests and multiple One has a hemorrhage in the right ventricle and a third is missing the eyes, tongue, and The medical examiner remarks that the injuries if the bodies had been found at the scene The bodies are also discovered to be wearing five bodies discovered earlier, indicating found. Greatly deepening the mystery, several of of radiation, and a radiological expert testified water for several months, the original radiation The investigation is abruptly closed on May The original intent had been to determine happened to the group of nine, it was clear At least not by anything human. Independent investigations are immediately offered on what exactly happened to this group up in the Ural mountains. What could possibly have caused nine people into a raging blizzard with no cold weather with high levels of radiation, broken and Theories fly wild and free. One investigator discovers burn marks on several ray was used on the hikers. He backs this conclusion up with reports from in the sky in the area. The very last photo in one of the group member's light against a black background- though this film camera. The possibility that the group was attacked group member's photos shows a dark, hulking Yet no tracks except for the group's are ever Perhaps the Americans did it. Why was 37 year old Semyon Zolotaryov attached University? His service record contains large gaps indicative for an intelligence agency such as the KGB. Could the group have run afoul of CIA operatives wrong with Zolotaryov? The most popular theory however is that the of a secret Soviet weapon. It's believed that some sort of missile launch forcing the group to flee. That would explain the third degree burns even the presence of a potential KGB agent, as they passed through a secret military testing Yuri Yudin, who was forced to abandon the death claiming that the group was removed by American CIA agents or the Soviet military. Now however, we finally know what really happened In 2019 the case was reopened for investigation, in charge. Using photogrammetry from the original investigation's better estimate the real location of the tent believed to have been located. This would prove crucial to understanding This new location placed the tent on a much Weather reports from the night in question sixty five miles per hour (105 kph), with Photographs from the hikers show that they angle to the slope as they pitched their tent, strong winds. What would normally be a smart survival move The group's cutting into the snowbank had As the blizzard raged, additional snow was Sometime in the evening, the snowbank gave into the tent from above. With up to a thousand pounds of snow smashing have been severe for those in the most unfortunate The incredible weight would have also prevented but even more importantly the sudden shift fear familiar to every mountaineer in the This would explain why the hikers cut their downhill and towards the tree line. The suddenly shifting snow would have appeared and their only hope of survival would have There was simply no time to retrieve any clothing The group eventually took shelter under the They built a fire, but somebody was forced nearer the top, explaining the skin and bits With massive wind gusts however, no fire could not have taken long for two of them to succumb The third degree burns discovered on the body get warm, or from falling over into hot coals The flesh discovered in one of the corpse's individual biting savagely into his own hand. The seven survivors then cut the clothes off were found in their underwear. The group now split up, with three of them- mountain to the tent to attempt to retrieve At this point the group likely realized an snow and dark of night, there would have been to the tent. Thus the three froze to death on the slope from the salvation of warm clothing. The other four decided to build a snow survival out the night and seek out the tent in the However, the group hit yet another stretch lay right above a stream. This particular stream doesn't freeze in winter, the snow and ice through which it flows. As the group dug down into the snow, they to collapse. The four fell to the stream below and were weight of it causing the injuries discovered From here, scavengers discovered the bodies faces. This still left the mystery of the high levels solved with some background info on the skiers One of the hikers had actually worked at the the Mayak nuclear complex. An explosion of radioactive waste had spread This hiker had even helped with the cleanup, inside the contaminated zone itself. High levels of radioactivity would thus be these individuals. The explanation has not satisfied everyone, plausible explanation of what happened to Urals. Ultimately, the only people who know the truth and if the Soviet government was truly involved for sixty years.