Hello Brains! Raise your hand if you've ever spent 3 hours Raise your *other* hand if you've ever actually (INTRO) ADHD brains need a lot of stimulation. I explain why in this video, but basically, scrolling through social media because we think that's we do it because we're looking for the stimulation Unfortunately, the quick and easy sources aren't enough to actually satisfy that need. I had a really great conversation with Eric he explained it as trying to fill a bucket Water's coming into the bucket...but it's So we spend hours scrolling through social Or we hit the pleasure button on the same it actually stops being as fun. Or we send WAY too many texts. The obvious solution here is to do things stimulation we need. That DO fill our buckets. But making different choices requires figuring weighing those choices, figuring out the steps involved then initiating and, because the more satisfying dopamine able to tolerate the distress of being bored Which, when we're already low on dopamine, to "nope." Just like it's really hard to make good it's really hard to make good dopamine choices One way we can make it easier is to separate Or as Eric puts it -- don't try to do all [ERIC]: One of the challenges that we come to stimulate ourselves at the time when we We can create a dopamine menu or a dopa-menu So when you're like, &quot;I'm so boredddd,&quot; grab I feel like not doing that is almost like [Jessica]: Yeahhh. Without a grocery sho-- without a list. [Eric]: Without a list. Right. Without a list. Whatever's the fastest, easiest, like, I want [Jessica]: In case you're thinking, &quot;well He also has ADHD. And he's very good at entertaining himself. [Eric]: What do we do about how to... Wait, what do we do about what? [Jessica]:(laughs) [Eric]: I just had the thought. Would these tomatoes fit in my nose? [Jessica]: Do you need a minute? [Eric]: There's a tomato somewhere on the And if I forget about it, it's eventually Do you see my tomato? [Jessica]: I don't see your tomato. Does anybody else see Eric's tomato? [Eric]: I love that I have clothes on my floor Okay, hold on. Where's the tomato?! [Jessica]: So I tried it out! I made a Dopamenu based on his suggestions, I elaborated on the concept a bit based on actual menus, and then put it all together Here you go. The world's first video on how to create In 4 steps. First, DESIGN your menu. To do this, Eric recommends thinking about things that or alive -- and on the flip side, what your that don't actually make you feel great. You can design your menu however you want, Entrees: the activities that excite me and or taking my dog to the dog park, going to spending quality time with someone, game nights Desserts: things that are my go-to's that Things that don't really fill the bucket. Scrolling through social media, texting, spending ruminating, mindless eating, watching TV, playing video games by myself, I would like to point out that it's totally good to be aware of when that's what we're we're probably not going to feel great. I also added Appetizers: things that can give me a quick So things like a minute of jumping jacks, 5 minutes on social media. And Sides: things I can add to other activities So, adding a music playlist, using a fidget, And I made a separate menu for "specials" Things like concerts that I might be able Going on vacation, buying a new outfit! Once you have a bunch of options on your menu, omit any options that aren't realistic right You know what... Restaurants take stuff off their menu all too expensive to make or nobody's ordering Dog park will have to wait until we can do I will actually never choose &quot;write a novel&quot; this is not a to-do list, this is a Dopamenu. That one's kind of expensive, it should Oh good, I have specials again. The idea is, what's on your menu should and something you can actually "make." Once you've got your menu set, Prep your ingredients! Restaurants know that when people are hungry, everything they reasonably can ahead of time. We can do the same. After creating my menu, I set up a table for long to get started, I put my guitar on a stand by the couch. When I'm done watching TV at night, I switch the first thing I see when I turn it on in and because I realized video games are only or when I'm playing with a friend, I added new games and occasionally buy one for a friend. I also *created* a few barriers to some of as often. I put my phone charger where I can't reach my phone and gave my kitchen a cover charge. Before I can grab a snack, I have to roll number on the die. Basically, for the things you want to encourage involved. For any go-to's you'd like to go to a little increase the number of steps. Finally, Advertise your menu! Most menus have enticing descriptions to get We can do that too! We can also make it pretty, or funny, and we're bored. I posted one on my coffeetable, in my studio, the lock screen of my phone. Now when I pick up my phone, I can see what If you're not sure what to choose, there are Just put in all your options and it will pick This isn't to say that suddenly we're or even that we should. There's something to be said for familiarity, But by preparing a menu in advance, we'll need them. Of course, if nothing seems fun, Eric has What do we do if nothing feels enjoyable? [ERIC]: Call your doctor. Maybe that's depression. So, if the, you know, it's the things that also could be ADHD cause you're just bored this for a week and I need something new now. Um... [JESSICA]: How do you know the difference? [ERIC]: I think you feel it physically when [JESSICA]: That's it for this video! Let us know what you think in the comments If you do design a menu, post it on Instagram It's where we're starting to celebrate all Thank you to my Brain Advocates and all my our next goal! Like, subscribe, click the bell if you want I will see you next video! Bye brains! But did he ever find the tomato?