If you're struggling to that sounds as good as your favorite bassist, I've been gigging for over from ska to jazz, to funk to progressive Celtic rock. Sometimes it felt like my tone was super locked in and I felt confident with my playing and had fun. Other times, my tone just felt off. I didn't know how to fix and kind of embarrassing. Why did Jamerson's tone but mine sounded harsh and thin? Why did Geddy's sound so but mine sounded weak and dull? So I started trying to fix it, but it actually made things worse. Dozens of videos with the same old just pluck properly advice... Endless forum threads, sending of gear acquisition syndrome. Nothing helped, just more frustrating tone and an empty wallet. But then one night I was out on a gig and I happened to see the sound engineer wearing this T-shirt that I that I'm saying right now. &quot;The 7 Bad System Dwarves&quot; I was curious and little did I know that these dwarves would to my tone problems. See, sound engineers have learned to master the whole sound spectrum to make s**t sound good. It's literally their job to turn bad mixes into good mixes and bad bass tones into good bass tones. So it turns out that five of these Seven Dwarves represent parts of the sound spectrum and will create either tone I mean, have you ever plucked one note, and you feel a godawful drowning out the kick drum? This is Tubby the dwarf kicking your ass. A nice balanced rockish bass signal might sound like this. But let Tubby the dwarf control you, and you'll get speaker blowing gut shaking that you can't even really Tubby lives down at the Where a given note sits on the spectrum is measured with Hz . Lower numbers sound lower, So if I tell you Tubby the that's a sound wave that goes which you might not hear on crap speakers because it's super low. So how do you keep Tubby It's simple but a bit counterintuitive, because your amp has a bass knob, which you probably don't want to turn down because this is a bass, and we play bass. But actually cutting that of Tubby's territory, and making more space for that kick drum. On this Fender rumble amp or any amp with a basic that means turning this into something much more Or on an amp with a graphic Darkglass Microtube's 900 Version 2 that I bought because Tim the left most slider So super rumbly. Shaking the stage. Bad things just slide that down, and I've still got bottom, but But like I said, these dwarves If you master them through a and limiting the other dwarves, you can unlock cool specific tones that help you mimic Like the King of Tubby himself, who played on most of Check out the tubtastic &quot;What's Goin' On?&quot; See how that 80 to maybe 120 Hz range Rolling the tone knob all the way down on your bass gets you close to that sound, and then boost the bass knob on your amp, reduce other stuff to taste. And without any of the right to that girthy sound just That sound is awesome but try that same tone on a tool song and Maynard will have than you can say &quot;Enema.&quot; That's why you need so you can tailor the perfect Because you've tamed of Tubby the dwarf, the and you can't even tell Just a big boomy mess That's Muddy the dwarf making Muddy lives in the ballpark of 250 Hz, which isolated sounds like this. You're trying to play a but if Muddy the dwarf messes with you, the notes all mush together Once you know how to tame Muddy, you can actually become Need your tone more clear and less muddy, and just roll that knob down But if your tone ends up feeling thin and lacking a feeling of fullness, you can actually add in a little to get a fuller feeling bassline. And on the Darkglass, to get the same job done. So we're super Muddy. We dial that down, and the notes are much And any control in that That listed number is but it affects the whole mud zone. And if you don't have a low mid knob or a slider around there, for Tubby will also help Every good bass tone ever had and find the right balance. Take John McKee's kickass tone on &quot;Rhiannon&quot; by Fleetwood Mac. Add too much of this frequency, and it makes a Muddy But pull too much out and it sounds weirdly hollow the bass is supposed to fill. Like that empty feeling you to BassBuzz, you sad sap, and don't think you can by nailing these first two dwarves. The fact that we play mostly low notes as bassists doesn't protect of the next three dwarves. Because as all engineers know, when you play something you're not just playing the one frequency that string is tuned to. There's a whole range of that make up your tone. So that's why all the to destroy your tone, no matter what notes you're playing. Like this, the most elusive your low end is okay, no rumbles, but you just can't shake the feeling that your bass sounds like That's honky the dwarf highlighting the unpleasant nasal quality of your bass. Honky hovers around 500 Hz, which sounds like this by itself. You want your bass sounding But if honky the dwarf you get the business end So how do you fix it? No, you don't need a frickin' new bass. I printed this out just to show you the horrible when I was researching tone. I've heard it said that most basss have a kind of a honk to them. But I was wondering if buy a new bass, or if there's hope for the financially challenged. I mean this just me off so much, and that's why I'm making that you can get a of basically any gear if you know how to tame these dwarves. On the Darkglass, the solution is simple. Just push down that 500 Hz slider. So we're super honky. Somebody get this bass of and it feels a lot more balanced. But not every amp has a This low mid knob is at the dwarf territory, and the high mid knob is at of Honky's territory. So is this the moment when Is Honky the dwarf about Well, hold on, we might So here's the honk. Yuck. What about this contour switch, which will give a big cut at 670 Hz, and then maybe a little And it's not a perfect fix, but it's enough to probably or situation you're dealing with. And frankly, there's almost to buy more bass stuff So go buy my beginner to badass course, a 30 plus hour step-by-step from beginner to, you know. And Honky the dwarf's not Harness his true power and helping you get tasty, And who snarls better than Check out the powerful growl Notice how much activity And compare that to me on my jazz bass. There's a lot less energy there. Putting a boost at 500 Hz more like Steve, but it's still not cutting the mustard, as they say in the sandwich industry. There's another trick you of almost any bass, which is just to use the neck pickup. On the precision bass that's your only choice. And if I balance to only that I can get a similar sound, and you can see how it dials up the volume in that 500 Hz range. And now with the neck pickup in charge and a boost at 500 Hz it's hi-ho off to Steve Harris tone we go. But it still doesn't sound Otherwise I'd be out and not sitting here, because It's all about the chain. The tone chain starts with your fingers, and then your strings, and your pickups, some other little things. But EQ, the shorthand term for mastering the dwarves, because it comes last You can take a great bass tone clacky P bass that cuts through amazing fingers, perfect stick some crap EQ on it at the end, and it's a muffled blob you'd never be able to hear in the song. And the thing is that other pickups, gets talked about all the time, but these dwarves rarely get a the power to solve so many tone problems. Say your band wants to mellow things out and play one of their but heads turn as your bass enters and your overly aggressive through the song. That's Bitey the dwarf bearing his teeth and sharpening the sound Bitey lives at around 1500 Hz or 1.5K, which sounds like this. You might be aiming for But if Bitey the dwarf your tone will be way too harsh and give the wrong vibe for the song. Luckily, the high mids On the Rumble, that's centered at 1.2K, to take this bitey mess just no good, and take that down to And on the Darkglass, there's 'cause they know what they're doing. So way too bitey. Yikes, push that down, way mellower. Failing either of those options, rolling your passive tone knob down maybe like 20% should get But don't overdo it if you're before the band starts playing. What sounds too bitey in isolation might work okay with the other instruments in the mix. Nobody knows this better Geddy Lee of Rush. Check out the nasty bite on a track like &quot;Closer to the Heart.&quot; Notice all that action around 1.5K. Here's me playing the same It's not nearly as cutting, for this song. Because tone is about the chain. Fingers, strings, pickups, and EQ, and I need to make sure not dead if I really want that Geddy zing. So with some fresh plucking technique, and a I've got a pretty good Geddy vibe going. And with Tubby, Muddy, Honky, and Bitey all on your team, your tone is almost safe But despite your best of the band's faces when you play and they're still cringing. Because Edgy the dwarf will you've done with your tone and add an unlistenable top end. Edgy sets up camp around 3000 Hz. or 3K, which sounds like this. You're aiming for a solid warm tone on something like &quot;Santeria.&quot; But let Edgy the dwarf loose, and your mess of a tone will You might think your treble the day, but on the rumble, which frankly is kind of ridiculously high for a bass EQ knob. So it'll take away some but it doesn't really fix the clank. In this Darkglass, we controls on the top end. There's a slider at 3K that'll handle the clankiness. That's so disgusting. So the attack is better now, but there's still some like And just listen to what Hiss, no hiss. That's 5K and above, so that's but it's going up towards the top. We take that down too. Much mellower tone. Now if you don't have all of to get a similar effect Make that less nasty. But Edgy the dwarf could if you need the intensity and clarity of tone required of Rage Against the Machine. Check out his brutal Look at how much action there giving that clear metallic So again, with nice fresh to hand over to Edgy the to the high mids in trouble, I can get some Tim-tastic edginess. Edgy can also take you into tone you hear from Adam To get all the way there, which compared to fingers in this bitey edgy range. Plus you'll need to kick right basically meaning a Darkglass. This video's not sponsored by Darkglass, they just make good things. If this video was sponsored, by that awesome Beginner to about over at BassBuzz.com, but this video is not sponsored. So with a pick, fresh and a nod to Edgy the dwarf, I can sort of imitate Nolly's tone, except and I don't know how Okay, no, I'm not learning That's enough, I did good. I really can't believe that nobody ever talks And even after 20 years of playing and teaching, I still learned a lot myself while researching this video. There's so many things if I could learn bass all over again. So click on this video, and learn what I would do differently so you can avoid my dumb mistakes, and I'm gonna try to play Oh, that's hard.