It's the mid-70s and Volvo is heavily in The new 200 series is unreliable, they have to be sold at a time when the world is swarming Volvo's trying every trick in the book to money to develop a new car to sell in the But the investment paid off. The 700 series would be the car that saved This is the Volvo 740 and 760 story. (music) Just a year after the 200 series launch, Volvo The new car should capitalise on the 200's to a more profitable category. Project NV80 as it was called, focused on The 200 series had been unreliable out of but Volvo would make reliability a big focus The 1973 oil crisis also loomed large. Customers were moving towards small fuel efficient cars - was suffering financially. The new car would use fuel injection and turbodiesels Volvo wanted the new car to have a lower total If they couldn't win the battle of the cheapest cheaper to service. Those serviceable parts would be easily accessible them, and garage repair bills would be lower. If nothing else, it would reduce the costs For example, to replace a headlamp bulb it's swapping the bulb and replacing it. On some cars it could be a much more complex 20 years later. By 1976 many different designs had been created, who had penned Volvo's cars since the Amazon Coggiola and ItalDesign. The finance department wanted a simple shape the team look at a simple, straight-edged But that boxy shape needed a drag coefficient efficient car to own. After a great deal of work in a British wind After much deliberation the team chose Jan Three shapes were considered, a saloon, a was simply too expensive. So, the plan was to focus on the top of the With finances tight, the new car would inherit drive layout from the Volvo 200 series. To improve handling and interior comfort the the overall length the same. Transmission and engines would also be carried and Peugeot; introduced in 1974 and used by The suspension would be tuned for predictable The rear axle would be suspended by a subframe higher-end driving experience. With the NV80 project now renamed to Project markets getting market data to lock down the What would 1980s drivers be looking for, and This helped shape the car and ensure it would But Volvo's finances were getting worse. By 1976 thousands of cars were left unsold Volvo's loan request from the Swedish Government measures to survive. Management looked into merging with Saab the The P31 project was ominously renamed to Project wasn't much time left to get the car out This was the car that would make or break To make sure the car was right Volvo held markets, West Germany and the USA. The car was unbranded so participants didn't what else could it be?!? Customer response was overwhelmingly positive, - just what Volvo was going for. There were of course criticisms, but these rake was too severe, and the feedback was The car had initially been planned for a 1980 1978 to get a driveable prototype, and the With tight finances, Volvo came up with a The Norwegian Government would give Volvo Sea oil seams, and Volvo would then sell the This would make Volvo the only car company But Volvo shareholders nixed the deal in 1979 entirely to save money. Without a 200 series successor Volvo would apace, now renamed to "Project 01". With the USA being an important market, the cold, but extreme heat, so the car was taken To further gauge customer opinion for the efficient vehicles, the "VCC" or "Volvo It was essentially an estate version of Project concepts Volvo would produce over the years. Production of Volvo's 2-door coupe, the High-end 2-door coupe's sold well in the so they looked to make a replacement designed They turned to old collaborators Bertone to The new coupe - dubbed Project 1780, started Volvo suggested Bertone take a Project 01 Bertone thought more major work was needed Volvo didn't agree with Bertone's design Together they produced a compelling package, a single panel with Project 01, the profit By this time Project 01 development had cost Although the 200 series continued to sell They were already developing a compact executive 760 - wasn't successful, there wouldn't To protect Volvo's truck, bus and construction division was spun off into a separate company. (music) The Volvo 760 launched on February 2nd, 1982 With power steering, electric windows, sunroof locking, leather seats and an automatic gearbox, It came in cheaper than the German and US into the 21st century. But European reviewers were less sure. They felt the boxy shape was out of step with wouldn't sell. The boxy look was too "American". But it also looked like it would protect its Those bohemians who had loved their 240 were and the 760 fit the bill. The 760 was intended to replace the 260, but other, with the 260 being the more "cost for "cheap"! Volvo had used this tactic before, and it a car that had already paid off its development By 1983 the 760 was also being powered by the 2.1L petrol turbo engine from the 240 0-60 time of under 8 seconds. That's like sticking a Mentos mint into metric tonnes and was rather boxy! Volvo themselves used a marketing campaign Both cars had identical quarter mile times, The range was filled out in 1984 with the providing more reasons for customers to choose Back in the 200 series days, the "6" in "4" for 4-cylinder, but Volvo had long for lower spec cars that often had smaller The stalwart Volvo Redblock engine used in to provide better performance and fuel efficiency. But the 740 wasn't a stripped down basic The base model came with power steering, central No wonder then that the 740 was much more The 700 range was further expanded the following It was based on the 1980 VCC but extended And to improve the 700 series, ABS and traction Volvo would announce their new car in the stacking things on top of it. They would stack a large truck, and also several when that was launched. With this, the 700 series could now replace and sell, and sell..... To complete the range, that 2-door coupe as the 780. It was a highly appointed car that was used Volvo had tested the car, but Bertone would The sumptuous interior would be customised comforts from the 760 plus wood trim, electrically The team did want to add a turbo, but the turbodiesel option was available. In 1988 the 760 got a subtle update. The wipers were hidden and the front was revised, making it more sloped. Both the 760 and 780 got multi-link suspension one of the first companies to add this to The following year the 4-cylinder 2.0L petrol to provide further fuel economy and performance, Volvo evaluated a 2.3L version, but discounted But the 700 series updates were subtle as the new 850 that would be introduced in 1991, at this time came from 850 development. The 740's front styling was updated in 1990, the 780 coupe was discontinued, but this Back in 1988 Volvo had started looking at all funds going into 850 development, there Given its strong sales, and the continued Volvo believed they could get additional life particularly around the back of the saloon Operation Backlift, as it would be known also becoming uncompetitive. The 850 would use a new X-100 4-cylinder engine. Volvo were able to enlarge it to both a 5-cylinder would be used on the updated 760. The subtle styling update was influenced by give the cars a family feel. But the changes around the front were subtle. With the 740 and 760 update being called the look - mainly around the back of the saloon it was the new car was the "9" on the Around 1991 the Volvo line-up was confusing. There was the 200 series - about to end of the 700 series being sold at the same time Then there was the slightly shorter but very Am I the only casual observer that got baffled But by 1993 the line-up was rationalised to Volvo's decision to soldier on with essentially sold well, and was updated just a year later, out to keep it relevant with the times, and By now the car was being built all around it was in multiple export markets and to how In 1996 Volvo rebranded its range with "S" meant the 900 series was renamed the S90 and But age was finally catching up with the venerable The car had to sell well to save Volvo, and its 16 year production run, despite having for much of its life. The 700 series set the mould for the large for well into the 21st century. Matchbox cars have a long and storied history. Find out more by clicking on the video on And a big thank you to all my Patrons for To get early advert free access to new videos, supporting me using the Patreon link below Thanks for watching and see you in the next