Northern India, the eternal, where palaces of the Maharajas multicolored festivities and the Taj Mahal creating an unlikely Its various ethnicities, and its multiple religious groups and the great cultural diversity of India. On the road of the Indies, Delhi is often unfairly ranked Yet, the capital is highly reflective of the grandeur Today, two cities co-exist within Delhi. New Delhi, the most recent, during colonization. To the north, Old Delhi Old Delhi seems to echo congested, busy, throbbing A world of rickshaws, Along with a rather peaceful atmosphere, Delhi offers a nice image At the heart of Old Delhi today a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The Mughal Empire, left its mark on Delhi, Both conquerors and aesthetes, the Mughals created a city The Red Fort was built around 1640. It's a gigantic complex with towers The fort gets its name that was used to build it. The surrounding wall is nearly on the side that faces the city. Passing through the monumental Lahore Gate lies a luxuriant garden marble mosques and Mughal pavilions The palace was modeled described in the Quran. On one of the walls, a simple phrase &quot;If there's a paradise on Earth, It is easy to imagine the powerful Mughals beneath the colonnades The two most emblematic buildings are the two audience halls, the Diwan-i-Aam, received official guests, and the Diwan-i-Khas The Diwan-i-Aam hall and included a series of gold columns. It also included a large railing that From his balcony in a canopied alcove, the emperor heard The Red Fort is considered to represent which, under the reign attained an even The palace's layout but each pavilion includes elements reflecting a fusion of Persian, The innovative design and especially its gardens, heavily influenced ulterior constructions The gardens reoriented to this end. The private apartments that are linked by a canal which flows The Red Fort Palace Complex of Mughal architecture, and it is one of India's drawing millions of visitors each year. In the Diwan-i-Khas, the emperor met with his courtesans The hall is comprised with arched openings South of the palace known for its marble pool and for its marble sculptures of Mughal artists and artisans. Its pillars and beautifully decorated leaves the visitor breathless. West of the Hamam It is a small three-domed mosque with a triple-arched facade. Built for the successor of Shah Jahan, The Red Fort since the reign It has also witnessed under British domination. It was also the site where India To this day, on August 15th. Chandni Chowk is a major shopping road Around this busy avenue, lies a huge bazaar. The Moonlight Market, built in the 17th century was once intersected by canals Today, it is one of the biggest The bazaar contains Saris and traditional clothing Dariba Kalan and Kinari Bazaar and jewellery. Khari Baoli is a delight for the senses, A giant beehive, One of the facets of lively, Located opposite the Red Fort Digambar Temple Jainism from the Sanskrit word Jina, is a religion It is based on the theory on ecology and plurality It is one of the most originating in antiquity, It disseminated its teachings to all, The temple is very popular such as fruit, Due to their rigorous adherence the Jaints have become well represented in the cultural, political Indeed, the Jain community The biggest mosque of India once the pinnacle of Muslim culture Jama Masjid, the Friday mosque Made of red sandstone, its design is distinctly Mughal surrounded by three high gates. The highest gate Its stones, cupolas and minarets from a distance. Also built during the reign the mosque was linked to the Red Fort Below the three the mosque echoes the majesty of a people and Northern India, the Mughals. When the Muslims they erected a monument Qutub Minar, is to this day, The Qutub Minar Complex and the first mosque of India. According to an engraving it was built from materials of 27 idolatrous temples. Extracted materials reveal were taken from Jain and Hindu temples. Certain parts of the mosque are decorated A masterpiece of Hindu Muslim art. Everything lies in the details, from the sculpted suras With over 150 million followers, Islam is today The first Muslims first for trade, then for war. The peak of their conquest in the 16th century. Ever since, Hindus and Muslims West of the mosque the builder of the minaret. This was a novelty for India, where tradition Humayun's tomb The site contains the tomb The sculpted stone works This is perhaps one One must spend time here of Paradise on Earth. The fountains, Surrounded by Persian-style gardens, Humayun's tomb is a huge mausoleum It was built in his honor by his widow, Haji Begum. It is the first example It exemplifies with its arcades and its dome and built by 300 Arabic artisans. This type of funerary monument with the construction Humayun's tomb was designated The sober aspect of the tombs stands in contrast Northern India, in the Mughal Triangle, heavily influenced by Islam, and Maharajas and later by the British, truly forms a cultural A colorful and bright melting pot. Jantar Mantar that was built in the 13th century who also initiated the Jaipur observatory It contains a wealth devoted to studying the path of the stars and to define the most suitable time such as weddings and political decisions. The name is derived from Yantra thus, the temple of instruments. South of Delhi lies Agra, heaven. Agra was the capital city It reached its glory of the emperors The latter ordered the construction before transferring Today, Agra draws millions of tourists Among the 20,000 people were master artisans The head architect The Taj Mahal funerary complex was built using materials sourced The white marble the jasper from Punjab, the turquoise and malachite from Tibet and sapphires The coral from the Red Sea. The carnelian from Yemen. The onyx from Persia. The garnets from the Ganges River. The rock crystal from the Himalayas. All in all, 28 types were used in the calligraphies displayed on the white marble. Over 1,000 elephants were used Seen from the gardens, is beyond impressive. One walks slowly, as in a dream, enshrouded in a cloudy mist The gardens were designed with its four rivers The tomb's central dome The monument is perfectly symmetrical. This sublime white marble mausoleum arose from Emperor Shah Jahan's which is Persian for light of the palace. She died on June 17th, 1631, Devastated by her death, he wanted to give her Thus, this majestic and poetic monument. Listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, the Taj Mahal is the leading drawing in 2.5 million visitors annually. Perhaps the relative beauty is a deliberate means Left of the Taj Mahal that stands in stark contrast The Jama Masjid Mosque and serves as a place To its right, maintains the complex's But this edifice is not used as a mosque The two monuments stand on a vast platform The arches frames and the timpanis The timpanis are entirely covered The mosque and the pavilion's design They both consist with three rows of vaulted ceiling. The arches are lined The passages of the Quran that are calligraphied are apparently intended to characterize a true allegory of judgment day and God tells them, &quot;and enter into my paradise.&quot; Near the gardens of the Taj Mahal a significant Mughal monument With its perimeter walls this powerful citadel contained the imperial city Established as a capital city Agra, necessarily needed From the fort, could contemplate the Taj Mahal, Like Delhi's fort, the fort in Agra stands of the Mughal emperor's grandeur, which reached new heights Behind the surrounding walls, Jahangir Mahal Palace was built The Mahal was the woman's main palace It is a combination The Red Fort's monuments marked with strong Persian influences. The Imperial Citadel thus contains such as the Khasmahal, the Sheesh Mahal, the octagonal tower, and the audience halls built Two very beautiful mosques can also be seen one of which is the Pearl Mosque. Diwan-i-Aam, the public audience hall, in 1628. The flat roof is supported and sculpted pillars. Here, the emperor seated on silken carpets while gazing elsewhere, he dreamed about his Two hundred and sixty kilometers Rajasthan, literally the country of kings, offers a series It is the opportunity to visit The name Jaipur is derived It was founded in 1727 a famous astronomer and mathematician. The city follows a grid pattern and its surrounding walls It is accessed through one of eight gates. The original Jaipur contained while the rest roads that made up the grid A surprising organization that reigns in most cities The City Palace of Jaipur is a complex The first constructions were made between 1729 and 1732, Successive editions until the 20th century. The City Palace holds an impressive amount The complex was the seat The structure is accessed by Rajendra Pol, a magnificent gate The audience hall, Diwan-i-Khas, stands in the middle of the courtyard. Here, we delve into the marvelous world the palaces of the Maharajas. Jai Singh II, the mathematician, which is still partially occupied The rest of the palace is a museum. In the room, two gigantic silver jars, as well as sumptuous crystal chandeliers. We are now in front of the Moon Palace. Today, most of the palace of the first leaders of Jaipur. Only the museum Chandra Mahal is seven stories high, Balconies, encased in glass or decked On the roof, a pavilion offers a panoramic view Within these Indian palaces, and one imagines beneath the luxurious facades. The Moon Palace is undoubtedly The Mubarak Mahal, or welcome palace, is a mix of Mughal, built in 1890 as a residence for his guests. Today, it is part of the museum. The Maharaja's wardrobe rising two meters high He had 108 wives. With a passion for mathematics, King Jai Singh II had five observatories in the 1720s. The observatory of Jaipur, inspired by the one in Delhi, The observatory contains a series Its large-scale calculating tools historians and scientists from their conception to modern times. This is the biggest sundial in the world, It measures time up to two seconds. Another particularity of Jaipur. At the intersection of Tripolia Bazaar, Hawa Mahal, built in 1799 as a place of fresh air in summer. Nine hundred and fifty three decorate the five-story facade, letting the air in while preventing them from being seen. Seen from the street, the narrowness of this interesting edifice Merely four to five meters maximum The city wasn't originally uniformly pink but displayed a range of colors The entire city was painted in pink pink being the traditional color To mark the occasion, the British built a beautiful edifice Nearly a century and a half later, and visitors come here and mural paintings. It's Indo-Saracenic architecture have become a source of reference The Rambagh Palace to house a private servant to the queen, the nurse of Prince Ram Singh II. The building, was converted into a hunting lodge A palace built on this site in the early 20th century later became The palace was occupied But due to the major maintenance expenses the Maharaja decided to convert Leaving Jaipur, at the center of which Painted in the colors of a sunset, The palace has five floors. The first floor when the level of the lake rises. The chhatris The middle one is the rectangular chhatri. Further down the road Overlooking a gorge, stands protected Here is Amber, the former capital Amber was first mentioned pioneer of geography, Founded by Raja Alan Singh, Amber was already a flourishing city Amber is not reached effortlessly. There are those Others take a jeep or they arrive to reach the Gate of the Sun. Like most Indian fortresses, Built in the 17th century, the architecture and differs from the Mughal style The Hindu columns, capitals, and arches differ from Ganesh Pol is the decorous gate and palaces of the sovereigns. The gate is decorated displaying a heavy Mughal influence. The screened windows on the upper floors in accordance with the purdah, Amber was founded in the 12th century at the intersection It was a capital city Expanded and embellished over the years, the fortress came to include vast palaces When the king moved the capital Not only did Amber maintain of the new city, but it also remained over many decades, Indeed, Jai Singh of both Amber and Jaipur. There are innumerable spaces In the Zenana Bag, the women's garden, water is piped through the walls The fountain was perfumed with rose water. During his reign from 1621 to 1667, King Jai Singh I had many temples erected and expanded his palace to the point that it became not unlike containing public modeled off of those in Agra. With its ceiling covered in gold, the hall at Jai Mandir The successive courtyards, the hypostyle halls and the mashrabiyas, the gold leaf paintings, In the serene setting the Maharaja's 12 wives Each had her own private apartment giving out onto the courtyard where they would gather together Amber Palace in the development of Jaipur. The creation of double city territory spanning a 50 kilometer periphery. Raja Jai Singh I to the city as well as artists. Highly cultured, he spoke Hindi, Such openness led Amber to become Shortly thereafter, in the late 18th century the successors of Jai Singh II Further west, the city of Jodhpur is also known as the Gate to the Desert due to its proximity to the neighboring Jodhpur is also called the City of Sun all throughout the year. Under the Mughal Empire, of cultural and commercial exchange. Jodhpur continued to prosper The merchants of Jodhpur came to occupy Jodhpur was a strategic site especially due to its opium, The clock tower was built in 1910 to mimic the British and especially In 1947, India became independent and Jodhpur became in the new state of Rajasthan Sadar Bazaar stretches out in a labyrinth of alleys and dead ends, some of which are specialized There are also the magical drapings Sara Bazaar gets going around 11:30 in the late afternoon. It is both the center of activity After crossing the bazaar and walked up the promontory the upper caste in India, one of the most imposing forts of India. This magnificent fort overlooks the city Richly decorated palaces, are found inside the fort. The fortress was built in 1459, the Rao Jodha, The fort is accessed Superb facades can be viewed The fort contains historical collections. It is a combination The Maharajas lived at Mehrangarh Hence its name Mehrangarh, Sangar Choki, made of red sandstone, According to legend, where the old hermit Cheeria Nathji, The hermit was displaced from the site and in his wrath, To propitiate the curse, the king is said to have buried The museum exhibits such as clothing and arms. A collection of palanquins Most notable is the Mahadol, richly sculpted It is an armchair bearing The royal family This gallery exhibits one and elephant chairs. From an architectural standpoint, the museum is one and more specifically, it contains some It is a perfectly preserved treasure a time during which the local sovereigns with the Muslim emperors. The museum also has rooms as in their time of glory. The Flower Palace, Phool Mahal, and was entirely The royal bedroom was built around 1850. It is an interesting mix Certain details like these Christmas tree decorations This part of the palace was built the last sovereign of Jodhpur Pig skin collages represent European-looking women Shishamal can be found The one at Mehrangarh Fort The mirrors painted in lively colors. The typical platform is magnificent. Janki Mahal contains decorated with gilded mirrors elephants and birds. We are in the women's quarters. The wives' apartments are located All the wives and concubines resided in the inner sanctum, The screens and fine sandstone sculptures From the path at the top of the Citadel, Jodhpur is commonly called the Blue City, Blue is also said to refract heat Umaid Bhawan Palace Its impressive cupola Completed in 1944, Umaid Bhawan is India's last great palace. The Maharaja to counter the unemployment rate in the 1930s. The English architect designed this palace were to last a thousand years. Umaid Bhawan Palace the Maharaja's residence, the hotel, Every room, every corner within the palace Jaswant Thada built in memory of King Jaswant Singh II. It exemplifies the talent This funerary complex contains On the terrace in front of the temple, runs a long line of cenotaphs Unfairly nicknamed, Little Taj, the main monument was built like a temple. It is a white marble memorial, built from As a result, when the sun's rays fall upon it. These stones The sculptures The cenotaph of the Maharaja Jaswant Singh The walls are decorated with portraits Forgotten floating palaces, Alleys full of roaming sacred cows and between two palaces, Rajasthan is a dream, but not an illusion. The embodiment of Mughal art in northwestern India. Religions intersect and blend here, offering visitors a glimpse A rich blend, manifested that brightens the monuments. From the men's turbans from the deep countryside so typical of the subcontinent.