The video you are watching this time is a battleship owned by the Imperial Navy around 1942. These were restored in virtual space. In this video, we will give a brief overview of each ship. This ship, characterized by its sharp hull, is the battleship KONGO. KONGO was ordered by Britain's VICKERS as Japan's first super-dreadnought battlecruiser. It was launched on May 18, 1912. It was completed on August 16, 1913. During her construction, VICKERS provided technology to Japan. Since then, it has become possible to construct super-dreadnought battleships within Japan. KONGO was equipped with eight 35.6CM guns, the most advanced at the time. At the time of her construction, she reigned supreme in the East as the world's most powerful battlecruiser. This KONGO is what it looked like shortly after the outbreak of war in 1942. This was reborn as a high-speed battleship with a maximum speed of over 30 knots. Despite being the oldest of the Japanese battleships of the time, it saw action on a variety of battlefields. The second ship, HIEI, was launched on November 21, 1912. It was completed on August 4, 1914. HIEI was the first super-dreadnought battleship built in Japan. However, unlike her other battleships, HIEI will spend much of its time as a training battleship due to disarmament treaties. It was easy to adjust the schedule. Therefore, it served as HIS MAJESTY THE EMPEROR OF MANCHURIA, IMPERIAL SHIP (HIEI). This ship had a close relationship with her members of the imperial family. Along with NAGATO and MUTSU, it was a ship that was widely familiar to the Japanese people even before the war. However, as the international situation deteriorated, HIEI, which had been a training battleship, returned to the front line. At that time, it was renovated into a modern, tower-shaped bridge that also served as a test for the construction of the battleship YAMATO. As a result, this ship has a very different appearance from other KONGO-class battleships. The third ship, HARUNA, was launched on December 14, 1913. It was completed on April 19, 1915. The construction of HARUNA received British support. Furthermore, the proportion of materials produced in Japan was higher than that of HIEI. This influenced the later advancement of domestically produced battleships. After major renovation, HARUNA also looks quite different from KONGO. The reason for this is that it was the first of the four KONGO-class sister ships to undergo major renovations. An air defense command post was also established just before the outbreak of war. Therefore, it boasts a unique appearance. Battleship HARUNA participated in many major naval battles since the start of the war. Many times it was attacked by the enemy. There is also an anecdote that the US military announced that she was sunk at least three times. HARUNA is the only KONGO-class battleship that barely survived at the end of the war. Among the KONGO-class ships that were active, this one is particularly known as a ship of valor. The fourth ship, KIRISHIMA, was launched on December 1, 1913. It was completed on April 19, 1915. There is a reason why the construction costs for HARUNA and KIRISHIMA are the same. KAWASAKI Shipyard, which built HARUNA, and MITSUBISHI NAGASAKI Shipyard, which built KIRISHIMA, engaged in what could be described as a fierce shipbuilding competition. As a result, one of the shipbuilding workers, feeling strongly responsible for the delay in work, committed suicide. The reason is that this was taken into consideration. In appearance, KIRISHIMA is very similar to KONGO. There are no major differences in the appearance of the ships, except for the shape of the air defense command center. After the outbreak of war in 1944, the main role in naval battles shifted to aircraft carriers. KIRISHIMA was used on many battlefields to take advantage of her speed. In THIRD BATTLE OF THE SOLOMON SEA, she engages in a fierce gun battle with the new battleship USS SOUTH DAKOTA, which is larger and superior to her own. The familiar battleship FUSO is the epitome of a towering and unstable illegal construction. Battleship FUSO was launched on March 28, 1914. She was completed on November 8, 1915, making her the largest battleship in the world at the time. FUSO's biggest feature is that her bridge is unnaturally high and distorted. This was due to the fact that her firing range continued to increase, and her aviation equipment was mounted in the third turret. FUSO was the first super-dreadnought battleship built to a uniquely Japanese design. However, there was a problem with its design. In particular, this battleship ended up with major deficiencies in terms of defense. However, due to disarmament treaties, FUSO continued to extend her life. In particular, a major renovation around 1935 attempted to solve the problems of FUSO. However, she couldn't deny that this was an old-fashioned battleship. Even after the war started, FUSO remained in Japan and was operated like a training ship. After 1943, this expanded southward. However, this did not provide many opportunities to engage enemy ships. In THE BATTLE OF LEYTE GULF held in 1944, she entered the Surigao Strait with YAMASHIRO. Due to the unlucky bullet points, she quickly lost her fighting power. Battleship YAMASHIRO was launched on November 3, 1915 as the second FUSO-class battleship. It was completed on March 31, 1917. In order to improve the problems with the battleship FUSO, some design changes were made to it. After the major renovation, YAMASHIRO looked very different from her sister ship FUSO. It features a well-proportioned pagoda mast typical of a Japanese battleship. YAMASHIRO was famous for his intense training and hard work. Along with the hellish KONGO, this was said to be the demon YAMASHIRO and terrified the crew. After the outbreak of war in 1944, YAMASHIRO basically remained inland and served as a training ship. As the war situation worsened, it was deployed to the front lines. Together with FUSO, YAMASHIRO entered Surigao Strait. This engaged the overwhelmingly superior American fleet. And this came to a tragic end. Battleship ISE was launched on November 12, 1916. It was completed on December 15, 1917. Initially, ISE was planned to be built as a FUSO-class battleship. However, to solve her defensive problems, the position of her main gun was changed. Furthermore, as a result of optimizing her design, it has achieved world-class performance. However, the performance of her rudder was unique. It was also said that although her turning ability was good, it was difficult for her to go straight. This ship also had a larger crew than the FUSO and NAGATO types. It is said that the ISE during her battleship days had the most livability problems among Japanese battleships. In general, ISE from the battleship era often has a more modest impression compared to NAGATO and FUSO. However, her appearance after the major renovation was different from NAGATO and FUSO. The very modern and solid bridge is attractive. The ISE-class battleship was also a powerful force. After the outbreak of war in 1941, rival American battleships had already been annihilated in the Hawaii campaign. Therefore, ISE did not have many opportunities to sortie. In 1942, the combined fleet lost four aircraft carriers in the Battle of Midway. ISE was refurbished as a Battlecarrier, and she threw herself into the fierce battle. Battleship HYUGA was launched on January 27, 1917 as the second ISE-class battleship. It was completed on April 30, 1918. The battleship HYUGA received honors such as serving as the flagship of the combined fleet for a time. Like ISE, after modernization it was transformed into a first-class battleship. Both ISE and HYUGA ships are very similar. However, they differ greatly in the shape of the aft mast yard. ISE is Y-shaped and HYUGA is straight. The mounting position of the rear mast top is also different. Even after it was converted into an air battleship, this point remained a clear difference. Battleship HYUGA is also known as a battleship with many accidents. It has experienced two turret explosions and one ammunition magazine fire. In an accident in May 1942, a fire broke out in the No. 5 turret. There was also the risk of a major explosion. She survived sinking. This fire accident led to the conversion of HYUGA into an air battleship. Battleship NAGATO was launched on November 9, 1919. She was completed on November 25, 1920 as the world's first battleship equipped with a 41cm gun. The NAGATO-class battleship is the first ship of the 88 Fleet Plan. Under the disarmament treaty, it ruled the world as one of the world's seven greatest warships, commonly known as the Big Seven. NAGATO rushed to the affected areas during the Great Kanto Earthquake. She also held the honor of being the flagship of the Combined Fleet for a long time. Before the war, along with MUTSU, this was the most popular warship among the Japanese people. After her renovation in 1936, her appearance was different from her previous appearance with a curved chimney. The profound image of the ship, which resembled a floating castle, overwhelmed those who saw it. Since the outbreak of war in 1944, NAGATO has not had the opportunity to engage enemy ships. And this one participated in THE BATTLE OF LEYTE GULF (off the coast of Mariana). This did not yield any major results. However, NAGATO was the only Japanese battleship to survive the war and reach its end in navigable condition. Battleship MUTSU was launched on May 31, 1920. It was completed on October 24, 1921 as the second ship of the NAGATO class battleships. MUTSU was one of the big seven along with NAGATO. As the battleship most loved by the Japanese people, MUTSU also served as the flagship of the Combined Fleet, replacing NAGATO. The construction of MUTSU was greatly influenced by the Washington Disarmament Treaty signed in 1921. At that time, intense negotiations were held for the treaty in order for MUTSU, which had about 80% of its construction work completed, to be recognized as a completed monument. As a result, MUTSU's ownership was somehow recognized. However, this led to a worsening of the ratio of battleships owned by Japan. After the war began, MUTSU participated in the Battle of Midway together with NAGATO, but she never engaged enemy ships. Then, on June 8, 1943, MUTSU's No. 3 turret, which was moored at HASHIRAJIMA anchorage in Hiroshima, suddenly exploded. The MUTSU's hull was split in two. And MUTSU sank along with many of her crew members. There are still various theories about the cause of this sinking. However, the truth is not known. Battleship YAMATO was launched on August 8, 1940. It was completed on December 16, 1941. Japan withdrew from the Washington Disarmament Treaty and the London Disarmament Treaty. Japan then took advantage of American battleships' use of the Panama Canal. In order to gain an advantage in performance, it was equipped with nine of the world's largest 46cm cannons. Furthermore, it was designed to withstand its own main gun at 20KM to 30KM. This was a battleship built using all of Japan's shipbuilding technology. YAMATO was highly anticipated for its success in the fleet battle. However, after the Hawaii campaign, the era shifted to the era of aircraft carriers and aircraft. YAMATO did not have many opportunities to engage enemy ships in the south. Additionally, YAMATO had more air conditioning installed than other battleships. Because YAMATO had an excellent living environment, it was also nicknamed the YAMATO Hotel. YAMATO's first engagement with an enemy ship was in October 1944, when the battle was in a hopeless situation, at THE BATTLE OF LEYTE GULF (off the coast of Samar). Ironically, YAMATO's artillery fire was ineffective against her escort carrier, which had thin armor. YAMATO was unable to achieve any significant results. The following year, in April 1945, the battleship YAMATO launched a suicide attack at sea to rescue Okinawa. She was hit by numerous torpedoes and bombs, and YAMATO sank without demonstrating its performance. Battleship MUSASHI was launched on November 1, 1940. It was completed on August 5, 1942. The battleship MUSASHI was built at the private company MITSUBISHI NAGASAKI Shipyard. Its construction was top secret, so a large amount of palm was used. When she was launched, she was concerned that she might run aground on the opposite bank. MUSASHI left behind many stories from when she was built. You can see the difference between YAMATO and MUSASHI by looking at the changes in armament. What was different between the two ships until the end was the stairs on the rear bridge, the rattal. The difference is in the angle of the linoleum walking belt towards the stern. YAMATO and MUSASHI in this video are in their appearance around 1945. These are not the final images with a large number of machine guns. She has been recreated as a pure battleship. Similar to YAMATO, MUSASHI was in the south, but she had no chance of fighting. For this reason, it was also referred to as the MUSASHI inn. Opportunities to engage the fleet did not come often. And in THE BATTLE OF LEYTE GULF in 1944, it was attacked by carrier-based aircraft in the Sibuyan Sea. MUSASHI was hit by 20 torpedoes and 35 bombs, including close range hits. Finally, MUSASHI sank. But to our horror, none of these attacks penetrated the main quarters of MUSASHI. The latest research has determined that MUSASHI sank due to the accumulation of scratches. These are CG reconstructions of battleships owned by the Imperial Navy around 1945. This period was the peak, and HIEI and KIRISHIMA were lost at the end of the same year. Only one ship, NAGATO, survived the battle in navigable condition. NAGATO was also lost due to an atomic bomb test.