Crafting is without a doubt an integral part of technically over half of the game's title. it's not perfect. Of course, you can't expect it things could be improved. And to make something crafting table when it comes to crafting. I would blocks and items and making another block and the game is something I started thinking about redstone block that can automate crafting, along that fletching tables are still useless and that recipe book. I have some ideas for things that can me, your reaction to a lot of these will probably Let's start things off small. see people ask for is recipes to be not talking about spawners or totems by because at the moment the only tier of horse armor yeah the uh, the one tier of the horse armor How about name tags? The lack of a recipe such a simple item, but if you want it you and for some reason that also goes for saddles. these. Now, this isn't really as much of an so this isn't really needed, but why are these and not leads, and item in the game which but still has a recipe. Okay, crafting it was really the only method of getting Mojang could also just update existing ton since 1.17 released was changing the instead of gold. Gold is very clearly just a as this just makes more sense for copper. this would give more of a use to copper, use railways again. Maybe not like how they the fastest transportation method, especially and if it's not that, people just use horses and had interconnected railways like this, it looked I think it would be nice if some stone-based in those recipes. Of course this wouldn't be can be used to craft a furnace and it still looks to more blocks and items. Admittedly, this point and granite to be able to be used in crafting actually get a use. Granite is, like, used with some it doesn't have, the Vanilla Tweaks website crafting changes that I would love to see in the turns the crafting recipes for bread, paper, and there so you can make them in your inventory and Enough about minor changes, let's talk about Of course, with how important crafting is, this see a significant update. 1.14, the Village &amp; ways a Crafting Update as it actually overhauled were the Loom and Cartography table, which both banners and working with maps, which was a major The grindstone was technically a revamp of while everything else was just a new way of making introduced in this update that didn't actually at the time of their release, but they were The first is the smithing table, which didn't see and then a revamp in 1.20 with smithing you already know what it is, the fletching functionality in the 4 years it's been in right-clicking it in spectator mode has the It's pretty clear that this should be some kind place for making tipped arrows and spectral arrows would finally be added to Bedrock Edition. that whatever the fletching table does, it needs otherwise what's the point of going through the this because, would you actually use tipped arrows making them? I've always thought of tipped arrows they're almost never used outside of that. The mostly single player survival, is with weakness villagers, and the only other thing that they're strays. And even if there's more uses that I just types of tipped arrows are used. I seriously 300,000,000 people who have bought this game have I have seen other ideas, mostly exploding seen is making arrows with a different tip. I can make on an arrow, so this is really the paper. The original crafting recipe for arrows, but it instead used iron instead of flint. Which or more of a light gray. Alongside that, not even in 1.14. So, this is still that same be the inspiration for this. But, then again, with a maxed out pow, so unless the regular arrow a more expensive one. I guess the fletching table look... or adding a scope- Look I'm really trying. hope it is a great idea like you said, because Enough about blocks, let's talk about something the days of looking up a recipe on the Minecraft recipe book is here to make crafting more easier people from this into this. And it's not just here furnaces. I think it's great that players don't learn how to make something in the game anymore... It is incredibly ironic that the system that a recipe book, is the one without it, and I'm recipe books and 1.13 added recipe books to the potion of the turtle master, so it would here. *Clears throat* It's also been 6 years. A in the &quot;Better Recipe Book&quot; mod, which does add a job to the people who made this, but I think Okay, so the goal with recipe books 1: Isn't Confused And 2: Doesn't need to look up how to make To better achieve this and to communicate I think the recipe book should look more like each step of making the potion 1 by 1, so I here should be the different effects, and when ingredients needed in the order they need to be like increasing the time, increasing the strength or making it a lingering potion. This is for two same potion from appearing multiple times in it to be easier to understand and gets straight the main thing you're thinking about is the like they're really making something. You clicked would remove the recipe buttons for making thick, you're probably wanting one of these to be the that doesn't have an effect. Once again, this brewing wanting to know why these are listed them to make the other potions. If someone then that means they already know what that is, I think this system works better the player would feel more like they're in the ingredients 1-by-1 and even make your it comes together over time and what role which you wouldn't really get from clicking you. I'm sure this system isn't perfect and that feel like this is the right track for getting a By the way, the &quot;Better Recipe Book&quot; like pinning recipes, instant-crafting, and the option to instantly and I'm am shocked that a button in the Anyways, that was my list of crafting changes I'd should be changed, so feel free to tell me in to play with this data pack that makes crafting Uh, bye!