Let me show you how this works, You start with a piece of music. You know, I have this piece on the brain because I just played it And then the task So in this case, if I put it it would sound like this. This is called transposition. And I'm kind of a missionary because personally it changed And it's one of those things that's fairly But the real magic is in the application, exercise will reveal themselves to you So let me show you how this would work And along the way, I'll answer and mention some of the benefits For our first example, let's use just This is the theme What I'm going to do is number these notes Now there are a couple prerequisites here. You need some familiarity And I have a free resource. You're welcome to grab a PDF that shows You do also need to identify and usually you can do that If you do know your major scales. And sometimes if you're look at the key signature but sometimes that's So everything that we're going to look at here comes after And after you have some basic idea But keep in mind, with your major scales because I actually often as a way for new students So let's apply so the melody here is 131713766165. And we can just start with that match Now the task is to go to the next key, you can just jump around at random. I like to go to the next key going because very often that's the direction So I'm going to go to the next key That'll be B-flat. And I'll play So here's our B-flat major scale 131713766165. And this is where the first magic This is such a good way so that they are connected to your ear, play your major scales up and down, it will be a first way of learning to recognize but what it doesn't do is push your ear to identify how the different notes Whereas when you play a melody like this, you know, here one three, one seven, especially when you're first you might go to the wrong note for that. Three maybe you'll go here oh, that actually doesn't sound That sounds wrong. So you're repeatedly testing whether you can find And also you're comparing that that you're So it has this incredible effect of both teaching you in a much more robust, that you can just make your way That was all B-flat major, and then it's also really connecting because you're thinking 1317 instead of B-flat, D, B-flat, a. So for this reason alone, and usually this is just, with a lot of students is that, we pick some simple melodies and we start putting them and a lot of students immediately will start to understand And I know that that can happen, I did this for the first time I had been playing scales for years but never in this kind of and never having to associate the notes So I started doing this when jazz teachers that you've transcribed and immediately when I started doing that, that actually this was hard for me to do, So I went to nursery rhymes. I took Have You Met the Muffin Man and it really had an impact on my ear So this is where you should start, take any simple melody the numbers, And this is a frequently Should it actually be all 12 keys? And how long should I spend on each key? And the answer to this Yes, it should be all 12 keys. Later on and that's At the beginning, to learn your scales, right? You don't yet have a ton of familiarity E-flat major. So the first time you do this, the biggest challenge is going to be And then once you've done it you'll be really comfy and so this will be more about analyzing and coming to understand And for that benefit, Sometimes I'll just learn a new piece and that alone can have a big impact on To show you a little bit about what I mean Let's look at our second example. So this is the chord progression A classic minor key chord progression. and yes, you can do this exercise So however you learn maybe you would learn it from a chord chart looking it up online, But either way, you might start out F-sharp If you have to put it into another key, you have to turn it into numbers. So if I want to put it into the key, going to have to turn it into numbers one five as a minor chord six, which is So just putting it into one other key pushed me to actually think the numbers of the chords here, You know, when when we recognize this Even though I'm playing that's because we recognize the numbers. We recognize the relationship between, the So understanding the numbers And in this case, there's a lot If you haven't played a chord progression it's a great example of looking at can transition from using natural minor with its lowered seventh and lowered And then move into a harmonic minor where we have this a-sharp here, this raised seventh. And that gives us a stronger sense of momentum Now, if that was a lot really fast At the point there was just to show understanding a chord progression simply and when I spout off about numbers a lot of those things taught me in a classroom. A lot of those things organically through learning songs by ear So there might actually be some quirks that came from my own self-discovery And in the end, when it comes to your own understanding of music theory, You want your own, discoveries of the patterns and that's by ear easily and write music So that's the second benefit. You'll get a much better understanding by doing this exercise not only with And there's one other benefit and for this, melody a teacher asked me to put into all 12 keys It sounds like this. That's just the first part of it. I'll be honest, I don't know if I can play It's been a while, but I took this melody in this melody are not diatonic, You can do this with melodies and diatonic means all the notes So this note and this note in the key I would call it the flat seven and so as I'm taking this into other keys, where the flat seven Flat seven. Flat three, one. So that's a nice little aside. You can learn to find these altered scale these non-data tonic notes but the thing I really wanted example helps teach you how to find good in a way So a big part of the challenge you need to be finding good fingerings With a piece of classical music, should go on different parts of the piece, you have to be coming up with Right. So the places that I put my fingers because I was improvising. But I've developed instincts over time and how to put my hand in the right place so that I'll have enough fingers and something that really helped me learn was this exercise, for this little excerpt of music every time you go into a new key. If I want to play. Right. You can see how that was kind of an awkward fingering when I tried so I might have to explore and see if Maybe that was a little bit better. and just messing around that way will teach you a lot about how to find So this is another piece of advice you know, they'll often worry the first time they go through the circle of fifths And I think that's actually a benefit. It's not a problem. because what you can do is hang out a few times and see if you can arrive and if you stick on the same melody over the week, where you should put your fingers through the melody without getting into so you can see there's a lot here. There are so many things and it's very flexible in a way. It's more like a, category of practice, transposition But it's good to start simple because you'll get familiar And then for the rest of your life some new skill or new rudiments you have a way of helping yourself on a much deeper level Remember to subscribe to my channel if and you can always go to my website, for lessons, courses, and free resources. I'm Ted with piano fluency.