Today there are more than 1.5 billion Muslims countries spreading from Morocco to Indonesia. But just like virtually all other religions, Quran and matters related to political events The two main denominations of Islam are Sunnism the Muslim population. But how did the split in the Muslim world In today's video we are going to talk about Shia Islam and the effects it had on the Caliphate Being on the internet is like walking a tight services available to us as possible, but Sponsor of this video NordVPN is perfect for It is easy to use and with one click you can on windows, android, IOS, macOS, Linux, and NordVPN is also the fastest VPN provider out If you are looking for movies and tv shows on the map and access all content you might You are a gamer and the game you are eager is geo-restricted? You are just one click away. Also, helpful if discounts you are interested NordVPN encrypts all your traffic, so your your streaming speed. So, support us, gain access to all content or using our coupon KingsAndGenerals. You will get a 2-year plan plus 1 additional We need to start our story with Ali ibn Abi the history of Islam. Ali was born in Mecca in the powerful Hashimi Muhammad. They had a strong bond, as Ali's father and later Ali would live in Muhammad's household. When in 610 AD Muhammad proclaimed his prophethood, Islam and recognize Muhammad as the prophet. But Muhammad's proselytizing was not initially he and the early Muslims had been oppressed. The rumours of a plot against Muhammad were Medina with majority of his followers in 622, event so momentous that the new Islamic calendar Initially Ali stayed behind to return people Prophet for safekeeping, but very soon he married Muhammad's daughter Fatimah Zahra, of Muhammad. Known in the Muslim community for wisdom and - the Lion of God - for his military exploits By 631 the Islamic community - the Ummah - had large swathes of the Arabian Peninsula and going to succeed aging Muhammad? And this is the root of the split in Islam. As one would expect Sunni and Shia sources On the way back from his last pilgrimage Muhammad Ali by his hand and proclaimed that &quot;Anyone Shia theology believes that in Ghadir Khumm by calling him Mawla - a polysemous Arabic leader or master. Sunnis believe that the Ghadir Khumm episode Prophet to his loyal companion and son-in-law definition - a friend. Another important episode in the succession is connected to the so-called Pen and Paper This is considered a genuine hadith, as both interpret differently. In Islam, a hadith is a story on the life for the Muslim community, and according to asked his companions to bring him pen and order to prevent the Ummah from going astray But one of Muhammad's closest companions and we have got Allah's Book with us and This led to a loud dispute in the room in and called everyone to leave. It is still unclear what the prophet wanted Shias claim that he intended to designate to determine this. According to Sunnis, the Prophet did not explicitly Islamic community to decide. There are other events which Sunnis and Shia but in short following Muhammad's death on a new leader. While Ali took charge of the arrangements took place in Medina. Ali and two other prominent companions of and deliberations took place without them. In fact majority of those present were the or were converted later, while very few of with Muhammad were there. Abu Bakr and Umar rushed to the meeting and The latter was one of the first converts to his daughter Aisha. Deeply respected by modern Sunnis, he was of Islam, and arguably one of the main contenders Umar was also a close companion of Muhammad, Hafsa, known for his zealous protection of He is known as a just, intelligent and wise After a heated debate, Umar was able to persuade - the Caliph, a ruler of the Muslim Ummah. Ali was later presented with the fact of succession initially refused to accept the decision, one of the strongest candidates. Umar embarked on the process of persuading to Abu Bakr. He personally came to Ali's house to persuade The events which followed have been the subject Umar was able to peacefully persuade Ali to According to Shia sources, Umar forced Ali the door, which broke Ali's wife Fatimah of their child. Ali himself was tied with a rope to force It is impossible to verify what really happened, successor Umar as caliphs and retired from He was often consulted in matters of state. Ali accepted the selection of Umar as caliph to him in marriage. After the death of Umar in 644, Ali was considered of Muhammad, Uthman of the Banu Umayyah clan, Again, Ali recognized the new caliph, but Again the sources do not agree on the reasons, and leniency towards tribal rivalries was Rebels offered to support Ali as an alternative sons Hassan and Husain to protect Uthman's Uthman was assassinated by rebels from Egypt Finally Ali's turn to become a caliph came Rashidun Caliphs. But his election was not smooth and he became The Prophet's wife Aisha and Uthman's the governor of Syria Muawiya demanded Ali but since some of them were Ali's supporters, Muslim Civil War, called Fitna started. In December 656, Ali's army defeated the but Muawiya still refused to accept Ali as around him. Ali was willing to not repeat Uthman's mistakes caliphate and decrease the power of governors. The two men assembled their armies and confronted 657. Neither side was keen to commit to a major skirmishes, when serious fighting finally an arbitration, apparently after riding out bring the conflict to a stop. Ali was forced to agree, but some of his followers as kharijis, from the Arabic verb kharaja According to the arbitration, which took place both Ali and Muawiya should relinquish their chance to choose their own ruler. Ali rejected this ruling and the stalemate him a caliph in Damascus in 660. The following year Ali was assassinated by Kufa. Ali's son Hasan was proclaimed a new caliph short reign. But Muawiya had a far stronger army, thus avoid further bloodshed and a treaty between According to the treaty: the condition that he would act in accordance - Muawiya should not appoint a successor and council - Shura Ali's family and supporters. But Muawiya would not stay true to his pledges his son Yazid as a successor. This would be breaking off the tradition of its leader through consultation or election, Muawiya summoned the Shura in Damascus, the and bribery was able to secure support for This development caused significant opposition started gathering around Muhammad's grandson who passed away in 670, as the leader. Despite the opposition, Muawiya was able to Yazid. Ali's capital Kufa was the potential stronghold in 680 put the events, which would further Following Muawiya's death Yazid became a of Husain. Yazid's envoy could not persuade Husain since Husain was the Prophet's grandson. Around the same time, the people of the city informing him about their opposition to the to remove Yazid from power and install him The Kufans sided with Ali during the first backing Hasan and were unhappy when he abdicated Husain accepted this call and sent his cousin and gather support. Initially, Muslim ibn Aqil was very successful Yazid was forced to change the governor of and the new governor succeeded in doing just With the support dwindling, Muslim ibn Aqil arrival, but it was defeated. Husain did not know about this and in September around 50 men and his family members. On the way Husain received information about of the revolt in Kufa. He called on those who joined him on the way attempt to challenge Yazid. Very soon Yazid's forces confronted Husain told Husain to come with him or turn back Husain refused and continued on his path with On the 2nd of October Husain reached Karbala On the following day Yazid sent additional The Umayyad army had orders to prevent Husain's order to force them to concede due to lack But 3 days later Husain's group was able For over a week Yazid's officials had tried pledge allegiance to Yazid, since they understood grandson. Ultimately, Husain refused the offers of Yazid approached Husain's camp and both sides Husain's companions fought valiantly, but his men were massacred. This included 7 sons of Ali, including Husain sons of his brother Hasan and other grandchildren Many from the prophet's family were killed. This was a final straw completing the schism and Shia. The process, which started with the dispute with killing of Ali and Husain caused the - first becoming a political movement within of Islam offering alternative interpretation jurisprudence, on state and some religious (Ahl al-Bayt) Muhammad's direcet descendants The Sunni, also known as The People of the l-jamaah) remained the majority in Islam and in the Sunni Islam in comparison with early interpretations of holy texts by the Sunni two largest branches of Islam go back to the And while the Sunni theology respects the that the Islamic Ummah should be ruled by The Killing of Ali, massacre of Husain, his the sense of injustice against the Prophet's into one of its main pillars. Ali's martyrdom during the prayer, Husain's perceived tyrant and usurper, turned into The first month of the Muslim calendar - Muharram Muslims with the 10th of Muharram known as becoming the peak day of mourning ceremonies. Millions of devoted Shias make the Arbaeen Husain in Karbala every year. The Shia defeat in the Battle of Karbala did from opposing the existing state of affairs Dissenters to the existing state of affairs of Ali and challenge the rule of the Caliphate. Numerous powerful states and dynasties such and others emerged throughout the Islamic Islam. In our episode on the Hashashins, link to you can learn about some of the events that more episodes on the topic, so make sure you to see the next video in the series. Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and