This is what makes the Chinese stay up at this revolutionary drone can do things no submarines to pointing out mines, the Sea in naval weapons technology since the aircraft this drone has a few hidden features that will ever breaks out. When taking a walk around the wondering what exactly makes it different American defense company General Atomics, the the Reaper drone that is also repurposed for Starting at the top of the aircraft, the Sea about two feet longer than a regular Reaper lot longer. From tip to tip, the Sea Guardian larger than the Reaper's 66-foot wingspan. These While it is true that the Reaper can travel long is to loiter over a specific area as an eye in for the kill anytime soon. However, once in to cover the vast distances required for its is because the battlespace is so much different. overhead a village for days or weeks on end. an operations box the size of Virginia. With needs to be more fuel efficient by generating With a max takeoff weight of 12,500 pounds Guardian can carry a ton more fuel than its older of at least 30 hours of flight time, hours or more depending on fuel burn rates. ideal for maritime environments is its anti-icing to operate in the harsh deserts of the Middle East most advanced cold weather-proofing As air enters the engine intakes just below with ice crystals would wreak havoc on the engine would have the same effect as throwing water on a the air. To prevent these ice crystals from coming of ice as the air flows towards the engine. But there are also powerful heaters to warm the air engine to make the engine more efficient. allows the Sea Guardian to operate in cold submarines are exploring more and more these drone could be for force distribution purposes. the bread-and-butter units used by the US to track expensive, and there are not many of them. At difficult to replace, not even including the more The Sea Guardian essentially takes the place warfare kit. If you look at the sides of that looks like hedgehog spikes. However, video game character we've all grown to know There are a few ways to track submarines. While has a very good SONAR, there is another way. Known coke cans that are about three feet long and can their own SONAR that will send a sound ping into will just listen closely for anything in the water SONAR suite will pick up the transmissions no other end of the line, operators can interpret torpedoes to the location from half a world away. the Sea Guardian would be the Navy's China Sea into the sixth Great Lake. Trump's Twitter wars into an actual shooting the US Navy as far away as humanly possible It is essential to understand some geography when &quot;First Island Chain&quot; is right here on map. Located the First Island Chain includes the Spratly manmade islands China has built up in the islands held by Vietnam and the Philippines. and air arms are all head and shoulders above heavily invested in technology to keep the US Navy used as staging points to attack mainland China. the massive arsenal of ballistic missiles China in improving their surface and submarine fleets. US, albeit with a much smaller overall average surface and submarine fleets that shrink each contractors and cowardly politicians who they While there are 119 P-8s in service, roughly half while the other half operate in maintenance and training means that not all of of this, the Sea Guardian will surely supplement them but also because of their stay time. stay airborne for 20 more hours. This increased exponentially more sea space than the Poseidon. now, artist renderings released by General Atomics only makes sense because, by the time a Sea be long gone before torpedo-armed units get there. endurance, as mentioned previously, US commanders cold waters of the Northern Pacific. While the it is a high-risk operation considering the cost board. Sending Sea Guardians to free up Poseidons from conducting an attack like Japan did in World is something the Sea Guardian can definitely do. the Sea Guardian is useful for. If you see that is a SeaVue wide-area maritime nothing like the radar you might get for your Thanks to its wide aperture, it can take this with the amazing still color and night and the Sea Guardian is an amazing asset Another core capability of the Sea Guardian ships at sea can only see so far with their information over huge areas they otherwise the US Navy could send the Sea Guardian well ahead threats. If the drone sees anything, it could then But that is not the only way the Navy could use ways mariners communicate is via radio. Of they are no longer useful. With multiple radio line-of-sight channels, the Sea Guardian Sailors to listen in. This information, passed vital in building a common maritime picture. Guardian in its fleets is still experimental but Sea Stallion, the Navy has not had a replacement rumors abound that General Atomics has carried. This is crucial considering that the this decade is over and the huge arsenal of the US Navy would enter the South China Sea. Guardian make it seem indispensable, era of post-GWOT (pronounced G-WOT) budget cuts. hour, the price tag to operate the Sea Guardian considering that the P-8 costs about $30,000 two-thirds less time, the Sea Guardian methods of conducting maritime surveillance. largely due to carrying 90% less fuel for an indescribable amount of money by preserving several years of training that equates to hundreds the back of the aircraft, too, must learn months or years of schooling to learn correctly. Navy is risky, probably around a million dollars time. If China managed to shoot down a P-8 in time it takes to train these Sailors is something By keeping personnel stateside, like in Nevada, its Reaper drones, the Navy can essentially air-conditioned trailers.