Welcome to Maui Hawaii. This is the Third part of this Hawaii Travel We end this vacation on Maui the most beautiful We start our Maui Vacation at this phenomenon A small 5 to 10 minute hike brings you to From this small hole in the rock water launches in. This phenomenon is astounding and a great of Maui. On a hot day the mist feels really nice. And as long as you don't do anything really Some people for some reason think this is Have some caution and you'll be safe. You need to check out the Nakalele Blowhole. Now as a bonus if you look around and just to this heart shaped hole in a rock. And now for my favorite spot in Maui, the And one of the best things is that people A ten minute casual hike down the hill brings Huge waves just crash all around you here pools are as calm as can be. The placed signs and a headstone here to try if you have any sense of caution you are fine. And you can just chill and just see these I'm telling you the Olivine pools are incredible. Just come here and chill, put your feet in and just enjoy the sounds and the senses and waves crashing all around you. The next morning we ate at Maui's most coveted The Gazebo Restaurant. If you are willing to wait over an hour this It does not take reservations. It has an amazing view of the ocean and there To top it off their food is amazing. And both my wife and myself love the food In fact I will give you a tip the best time lunch time. Now we move on to a helicopter ride over the Maui is the best place in Hawaii to take a It has the most beautiful waterfalls and valleys to. This is no ordinary helicopter either. It is a doors off helicopter ride which has Most obviously you get to feel the cool Hawaiian helicopter rides. Maybe not so obvious of a perk is that there Just look at the views of these waterfalls. You also fly above some of the smaller Hawaiian My favorite part was the shoreline Sea Cliffs It looks surreal and this video just doesn't Other great things about this flight is they helicopters. Up in the air you feel fresh and over every or shore line that make this flight exhilarating. Seeing Maui from above is a must do while So I would use this company. AND one time we asked if we could to an area us another pass near our favorite waterfall. I will link to this doors off helicopter along travel guide in the description below this Most vacationers in Maui like us decide to And here is my favorite restaurant in Lahaina. The Lahaina Pizza Company. The view from this restaurant is amazing and So relaxing. This is one of two don't miss restaurants But you will just enjoy the chill atmosphere The road to Hana is the number one thing to This extremely scenic drive is all about the not about the Destination of Hana. All along the way there are stops that are rain forest. I recommend getting up as early as possible is more than a days worth of things to do to some of the attractions. We first stopped at the Garden of Eden. My wife and I love animals and we wanted to They are one of natures most exquisite creatures pictures with them. But if you like to enjoy nature with just so. But there are definitely more exciting locations Next I am gonna take you to a Secret waterfall Now I will share the secret with you... sort This unknown path is a 20 to 30 minute hike get to this secret peaceful cove with a picturesque Its main appeal is that no one knows about The hike and the cove are like a magical dreamland. And I will give you a Hint. Your hint is that it only has one parking entrance. To find this waterfall you have to want it Everything else on the road to Hana can be I recommend buying it and planning out what I will link to it below. Down the way is the Keanae arboretum. Now I mispronounce everything so I am sorry When I first saw this in the book, I overlooked But it is a quick easy stop and has the coolest It is well worth a stop to see the palm and the best trees are these rainbow eucalyptus They make an awesome background of colors A quick detour from the road to Hana is the It is a great place to relax and take in the homes and a nearby church. What makes this small town even more worth getting a little hungry and Aunt Sandy's Banana to stop and eat. The best place for Hawaiian shaved ice is I will link to that video at the end of this But most shaved Ice here on the island is Now, like I said, there is too much to do In fact, Hana itself only has one thing that this trip. This is a Trike. It is basically a motorized hang glider and ever done! The footage here isn't that great because Starting on this random runway in Hana you from above. And I highly recommend this especially if ride from the beginning of this video. Make sure you book this way in advance and Next we make are way to Wai'anapanapa State Hawaii. Unfortunately everybody else knows this is It is most famous for its black sand beach. If you have never been to a black sand beach What makes this black sand beach stand out colors. The water is a crystal blue and the foliage overload. If you watch my Big Island video I visit my is not very busy at all. Because there is so many people here to make on a five minute stroll to the edge of the and sit right next to where the waves crash. It is such a cool little area slightly more Next to the main beach there is a small cave It is a pretty little gem that a lot of people When you find the small cave it opens into you so choose. And as you can see here the sand is magical. The Pipiwai and the seven sacred pools are First you hike along the tall grass or whatever large distant waterfall. You make your way to this old majestic banyan It is a nice place to relax and climb. After that you cross a few old bridges. Here my wife is reenacting a movie. Can you guess which one? Okay anyway, my favorite part of this trail At points the bamboo towers over you and makes And it really feels mystic as you walk through At the end of this trail you are rewarded Near the seven sacred pools is the Wailua It is a quick and very magnificent waterfall. You can see it from the road. If you want a lot of waterfall for just a for you. To be honest I am always astounded this place And it opens into this pretty little cove air. Now if you want to know what to do on Oahu Travel Videos. Below I link to the things I did in this video Comment on any questions that you have about this video if it helped you out, and subscribe