Passkeys and disaster planning. Hi, everyone. there's been a lot of, I'll call it just fear, uncertainty, and doubt, FUD, what Passkeys are and how they will Honestly, I think they're awesome, But there are a number of misconceptions key and what that implication then is Here's the question I got. I've been thinking about using A practical matter that arises is you'll have guessed that I'm not a young to the mass of stuff, financial, My immediate thought is that I better keep Is there an answer to this problem? Absolutely, yes. But unfortunately, misunderstanding of exactly what So what I want to do is go through at a high level discussing how Now, to be clear, than a token, if you will, I'll keep saying device Passkeys work on PCs, on tablets, So the first time you sign in to a service or an account, that token on your PC, in Windows, in such a way that it's inaccessible in place of a password or other Now, since the Passkeys are stored on your device, I said Technically, that's not really true. They are accessible to things like your and only after you have proven Well, normally that's a password. Well, in this case, have for Windows or whatever For example, account, account from scratch on this PC, That allows the browser to then go in, get the appropriate Pasquie information So the process of logging in is really nothing more than go to the website enter my pin when Windows asks for it, I'm in. Now, I say pin because There are other techniques that can be So it could be a pin, it could be facial And I believe it could A Ubi key can possibly be But the bottom line here is that rather gazillion accounts, and yes, you have Passkeys for all of these and your one identifying technique So all I really have to remember is my PIN, and I can get into all of these Now, another piece of misunderstood information is So for example, if I set up a Passkey on the PC that I'm using right now, When I go to my laptop, That passkey won't work on this device. This device's Passkey won't So while passkeys are stored securely in the operating system, anywhere other than the machine Now, I keep saying set up a passkey. Passkey. That's where the magic lies. To understand this, we need to realize that Passkeys are They are perhaps the most convenient. But in order to set up a passkey on your machine, authenticate yourself with the service Now, that service may not In fact, I look forward to that day. So how do they authenticate you? Well, they will either, for example, send or send an email with a code to your email or send a popup message to one already signed in, code if you happen to have And if passwords are around, yeah, to authenticate that you But what that means is You use them once. You'll notice that most of them are Wait for the code, waiting But once you've set up a Passkey, once you've authenticated yourself then everything becomes a lot easier So Passkeys are They get rid of passwords. They make passwords optional. And certainly services that currently use passwords could absolutely And they're actually more secure because Even if there is a data breach somewhere, and even if the service was storing their the information that the hackers They can't use it anywhere. It's useless to them. Even if they did get the corresponding to identify your machine, is that's on your machine So using Passkeys after they've been You authenticate with the device, So rather than authenticating with Google, My PC then, once I've authenticated with it, secure storage, to confirm that yes, So disaster planning. That actually gets really easy. You don't really have What you have to worry about is that your heirs or whoever would be in charge of become incapacitated, say, of those steps that you would use to set So what that means is they may need access to a device you already have They might have access to the mobile phone They might have access to the email account that's associated By email account, I say recovery account because we might be using this They might have access to your And if passwords are still being used, sure, make sure they have But you'll notice that none of those required anything that was In fact, once they get in, of their own on their PC in through one of these other techniques, Similarly, if they have access to your then that, in fact, might be enough, maybe they know your pin to your PC, and then be able to use the Passkeys Now, there is one, it's actually a feature to Passkeys that I I've said so far that Passkeys are So earlier I said that the Passkey that I different than the Passkey I would However, I lied. I lied because I'm actually using 1 Just like you might have it save the passwords that you use When you create a Passkey, 1 password That way, synchronized across whatever devices you that Passkey will then indeed be So in that scenario, of saving Passkeys, save it to your password vault, in to those accounts, devices as long as you can And that too, factors in to disaster maybe that's how you give your heirs or to the information that would In my case, like I said, So if somebody needs to access my stuff, and then they would have passwords They would have Passkeys for where pass keys are used and whatever else There's one final thing, and that is that Passkeys are per device A vault will allow you to use But the bottom line here is that the pass remembered by the service What that means is that there is typically could list all of the pass For Google, it's at myaccount. Com. I have a link in the companion What's interesting about that is that you then have the option to cancel Here's the scenario. I'm working at my desktop, I'm signed into my Google account, so I My laptop gets stolen. Let's say I'm not using one password. So the Passkey on the laptop is different than every other Passkey I I come to Google, I say, Cancel Now, that Passkey no longer works. Even though I don't have my hands on the laptop, That's another level of improved Hopefully, that helps you understand Disaster planning honestly isn't really affected that much by Passkeys, access to is able to access some of these up a Passkey for the first My recommendation is use And if you're a password vault user that happens to have a vault that can save I find it very convenient because I travel Maybe you don't need to. Maybe you want the additional security of maybe having different Pass But Passkeys in general exactly what it is they're doing For updates, for comments, for more information about Askleo.com/165726. I'm Leo Notenboom. This is askleo.com. Thanks for watching.