So, you think this is olive oil, right? Wrong. Well, maybe some of a classic example of food Extra virgin olive oils are cheap ones And fraudulent something else. Why is this Your parmesan cheese Parmesan cheese. There was no one brand that safe. Wow, so we can't eat I guarantee you, any time a something more expensive, It's that simple. Counterfeits, dilution, mislabeling. Food fraud not wallets, it puts their We might not know the because so much of what us and has been for Some estimates say food the global food industry, billion a year, according Administration. Grocery Manufacturers of of the commercially States is adulterated. That's one in ten. It means if you're not on checkout line, you've got you leave the supermarket Here's how and why fake food kitchen cabinets. According to the FDA, food economically motivated It's a monetary impact to manufacturers, but it's safety, public health It robs us of nutrients and done. Larry Olmstead researched published his book Real As I worked on this book, my became any time what you you're buying; doesn't legal or illegal, it's tricked. You're buying you think it is. The worst offenders can dairy, honey, alcohol, The fraud happens more with Totally make sense, right? There's a higher margin. Take your extra virgin olive Fraud usually occurs here to the more expensive oil, 100% extra virgin olive That's food fraud. Olive oil has been years because it is of high They might flavor it with color it with a little little more green. And so quality, cheaper oil. So both of these olive oils and both of them are the way more than the other. This one had a label of extra virgin olive oil. So the olives were sourced European countries and it and there was no expiration And when I purchased this California extra virgin cold pressed, unfiltered, preservatives or flavors. And this one had an It said that these olives November 2022 and that it until August 2024. And it was much more much as this olive oil. And this one had way more olive oil came from. Now, let's look at the spice vulnerable to fraud. Think of an expensive spice This tiny amount cost me Saffron can be bulked up like plant stems and sold the FDA. Popular spices like basil range of different brands. Anything that's kind of ground up can be passed off It's the ultimate bait and And then there's fish. The FDA says seafood fraud expensive species of fish expensive species. After all, it's kind of are buying, right? If you're experienced chef at like a red snapper red snapper. But, 99% of Most of the fish we eat is Every fillet looks pretty there are so much mandated by law to inspect seafood, which is, I think, In fact, the US imports as The federal fisheries business. Agents from NOAA tear open a container Thailand. They're looking First, it's important to food fraud lives in. There's intentional and risk. Unintentional risks quality, like accidental CDC estimates about 50 contract a foodborne Only 20%, one in five of So there's 40 million from something they ate is. And a good guess would to do with that. Then there's intentional. That's where food fraud is The difference is fraud is and defense is motivated by If you have a ton of coffee 1,2 tons by adding some just increased your profits And a lot of these products They go from small growers boats to processing plants. It's not necessarily like selling you coffee that's It can happen in a lot of Even the FDA says it can't fraud happens or its Over the last ten years, committed is lying about an or substitution. Both ranking at 16% of Dilution and substitution like. Perhaps somewhere real expensive process of fresh olives is ignored. Maybe a little canola oil Then there's the removal of part of a food is taken out or substituted And that substitute can be That's the 14% of the incidents using non-food The pandemic has given us a chains and forced us to. For example, during the really spiked in 2021 to that were committed and You know, if we knew all solved? The key was we prevention. Food fraud right, is boring. We're the fire marshal alarms, not not catching The US has laws in place to That's part of what the FDA Basically, all food fraud, illegal under one law or Before the FDA existed, basically whatever they Think of Upton Sinclair's That book was published in That same year, food safety Meat Inspection Act and the which outlawed adulterated protect consumers. This ultimately led to the The Food and Drug Since then, laws have hit safety protocols like the Act signed into law in And then horsemeat. The fraud was on a grand Horsemeat was blended into and. Sold to unsuspecting eight months in 2012. The scandal was exposed. And that was a great wake up Some companies purposely Prosecuting the fraudsters tricky. After all, they're that detection. But Like in 2016. Product labeled market contained cheaper Swiss and organic filler called derived from wood pulp. Castle cheese was caught to its grated parmesan that cheese. The FDA does allow fillers but it can only make up 4% The president of the company of community service and For its part, the Food and job is to make sure food police the labels. Fraud is tough for the because it's difficult. They don't have a lab in The food fraud prevention question survey consumers food. One What type of Be aware of product that you in the wall to quality. Can you recognize the products? If you can't that makes you more If I drink scotch, I difference between a $50 So I know I could be Three. Supplier Do you know supplier? And do you trust So when you turn that box of over and read the back, there that's required by consumer. And then question four are The supply chain can be when shopping online. So how did you find out Is it reputable? But it depends on how you And finally, five: complain. Okay, it's not a question, prevention think tank says they will want to know. I think manufacturers can be The FDA also relies on In recent decades, sophisticated in the the food products. And that means that our test methods and standards detecting fraud. That's why the U.S. Pharmacopeia Convention organizations to detect its We have food fraud is a supply chain risk take a look at which ones suspected to be Sometimes it feels like this but the more fraudsters are end up paying in the end. As consumers. These cases rarely result in If you want to be like a heroin and you get arrested going to go to jail. But if importing adulterated honey, a slap on the wrist and do food instead of drugs if criminal downside to it? So as long as we don't take perpetrators take it What we want is the food on making food and not have our shoulder, checking And that's going to impact better food, safer food, There's plenty of things world today, and food fraud