So I was in town and did a replacement for the front windshield of the truck So I went to look at that. Yeah, well, it's this. I mean, this is a really big compressor, diesel driven compressor. So he had this sitting there, too. And I asked the price, what do you want for both of them? And he said, 3000 EUR. And I was like, Sure thing, let's load them up. If this works, I actually have a rock drill for this that I'm going to test. So I'm very excited about this. Well, I'm excited about this too. Okey. So this feeder pump is broken. So what a guy did is that he just put on electric Apperently supposed to start it like so, I also got a new feeder pump included but it wasn't installed so I guess I could install this. Or maybe there is a reason why this hasn't been installed. Maybe this just works pretty good, I don't know. Let's start that... So see that everything working. Just measure it up and this is pretty much the ignition Supposed to go so. Okey, so this is revving too high. It's giving out 50 what was it, 56 hertz. This is supposed to be 50. Right, that is much better. I don't know if there is... I guess that's the fine adjuster, I'm not really sure. I don't know what this is, All right. Let's test something to see, to see if it can power it. So 4000 watts, crank 'em up. All right. So I realized when you are taking out 4000 watts, So, I don't know, maybe it wasn't a good setting before. So it's just that when running empty, it runs kind of high. And then when it's put under a load, it's running good. I'm gonna go and get a bigger heating fan. I'm gonna get a 3 phase one, 5 kilowatts, I think I... Or is it 10 kilowatts? Well, let's go find out. I think I have one. Let's try this, this is 5 kilowatts. So this seems to be running fine. I'm not really sure about the Hertz, how much it matters for... I guess it's depending on the application like for finer electronics, just using it for an electric motor or some as I'm going to do maybe just slow it down. I'm going to read up on that. So this generator is rated for says here 20 kilowatt amperage So I guess it's 20 x 0.8. So 16 kilowatts of power is what this is giving. But I'm just going to use this for my conveyer. I mean, it works. Let's leave it like that. I just gonna give it a service The oil plug is down here I need to make some kind of hose that leads this oil out. Naah. I think this is just going to be a mess. All right. You know what... Yeah. Pretty much what I expected. Yeah, well, hopefully there's a number on this. Otherwise I'm not going to know what to order. Yes, we got numbers here. Let's take a photo of those. All right. So after some research, I did find a filter kit for this. So two fuel filters and a oil filter. It seems like this engine is made before, was it 69, to have this kind of filter. So I mean, this type of filter are supposed to fit all the Ford 2000, 3000, 4000, 5000, 6000. I don't know how far that list went, but it was a lot. So hopefully this fits. I also bought a new belt here. Okay. I don't know. This seems to be much bigger in comparison, but... Yeah, this end doesn't really look the same. It seems to be the same length, smaller. How was this? I think this was to the nut, was it? Yeah, that's supposed to go there. So was it. Okey. Is seems to be fitting Pretty fine here so. I think there's a problem. There are some forever hings here I can change. Try to aim this in. All right. So for the fuel filters. Well, this seems to be smaller. All right, so. So this fuel filter is not going to fit. I guess they're they change this fuel filter holder. So. Yeah, well, this aint going to fit so I got to order other ones here. So let's change the belt instead. Atleast It's easy to change. You can see how it started to crack up here so. Yeah it's going to hold. So this looks really homemade actually. Well. Guess it's works anyway. So I got my hands on fuel filters. Same one as this and an air filter. So this looks a little bit better. This has a You can see here, it has a welded nut for so this one has not. Yeah. Well, guess we can see I mean I guess I could buy They are not really I think they're run for about $250 I just want to make sure this works And then start spending more money Right. So that is stuck there. I mean, this is still pressing pretty good on the filter. I don't think I .. my plan was to put a closing valve here I'm changing my oil, But I don't know about this thread. It doesn't fit here or none of my couplers does fit this. I guess there's not much to do I'm not really sure about the oil volume in this. I'm going to start with this So it's just over the full line there. So this oil filter So maybe a liter more, So the vibrations are kind of high here. So I gonna Put this to maybe take away some of them. So this is a new battery Alright, now it's coming this is down to add now so I found a grease point here. Well there are still some things One is to yeah, put wheels on this It's really hard handling it like this. Another thing is the warning system on seems like So if you're running low on oil, but well, the cable is hanging there, I'm thinking simply just something that.. to the kill switch to pull this back. And kill the engine So I got to put the top back on and take this to the crusher I kind of need that compressor The stuff in the background, The property line goes here so. So if you was intrested about that. I mean, it seems to work fine. I got to leave it here for now. Let's go and have a look at the compressor Try to see if that works. All right, I tried doing but I didn't find out It seems to be something made in Denmark, but something I can say the D47 engine that I know, but I know nothing about the compressor. So this is the compressor unit. It seems to be six cylinders, but yeah, there is a there is there is a plate there, It's like "D210" type. So yeah, it doesn't tell me much. So these are pretty much just air filters with oil. The purpose of those are that it's sucks There goes through the oil What the oil does is that it takes out so it gets clean air here. So this is a good thing to have. In dusty conditions, I got a new one for that Since this is totally dead. I got to make something here to hold the battery. All right. These are way overfilled. I don't know. I think they had a tarp over this, at least. But there is way too much oil in this. I think the maximum level is here. This is up here somewhere. Also too much oil in there. So it doesn't seem to have so many hour It's 381 hours. And I mean, it seems to be Swedish. I mean, all this Text here is in Swedish. Maybe it is some military thing. Let's try to start it I don't even know if this has fuel, but it seems to be fuel I need to change this. You can really feel that There's a lot of play here. Let's just try to start it again Okay. So this seems to be the throttle. So when.. pretty much regulates, this will push down Oh, now I see. So I think this spring So if you want to..Let's try that. So this spring is going here. So if you want to pull.. Like so. now it's full throttle by pushing this down. All right. I woundered why the spring was there. Oh, it doesn't really want to sit here. Okay thats better. well, let's leave it like so. Oh, it's a dead mouse. Yeah, well that's not the best way to die. Sure. It was a lot of water there, too so. Guess you going here Im gonna clean them out I'm not sure about the oil volume I mean, the oil pan. Look kind of small. I gonna start off by 10 liters, where it gets me. All right. So that seems to be a pretty good It's just above the line here. I mean, when starting the engine I think this is going to be a... All right, this looks old. I did order a filter for this. Im just not sure if that's going to fit. It was pretty much a gambling, It sure look old o, there are some numbers there. If someone's interested in that, let's try it. Let's see if this goes here All right. Well, it seems to fit. Yeah, I think so. It's a spring in the bottom I don't think you can really I got to see if this fits. I'm going to steal that. This is a Volvo TD71 I have standing here. It's supposed to work. It's just that the project I have for this year, Alright that works. There we go Dang it all right, that good. So I don't have a new filter for this what kind of filter this was. So yeah, we're going to try So after cleaning this up, It's just really hard to read. Let's see if this works. I don't know let's start with that. It's like 8 liters now. Let's try with that. You can actually see So it's about here. I don't know. I guess that's good. I guess this is made Let's clean this. So the black mark here, that's the maximum filling line of oil. Otherwise filling above this to start breathing the oil So before putting these back together, I've got to build something There is actually holes here and a nut It's just that, it's a really exact fit. Well, this got a little long but.. I can cut them out later I got to use this thing instead. It's a battery shoe So if you want to disconnect the battery, And now it's disconnected. And now it's connected again. So, just put this on between that. So well All right. So yeah, this is going no where. So I did order a new filter. It's just that the delivery time for So yeah, I'm going to have to reuse this I mean, it's really So I guess this is an air plug. This is the highest point. So if I. So I've got to run the engine and open Anyone know what this is for something. What are these meant for. I wonder if it's something to do with the. Nah, I don't know. Maybe it's not even supposed to be for So it's always good Guess we can keep this here too So I got to put a little bit I think that's going to make it stay on. So there's a few things. I gonna order to this. I gonna take this home So I got a rock drill at home, i'm kind of So, to see how how much faster it is I mean, I don't know, I think I'm going to to need to buy new one of these screw it up the way to get it up, it sure is a lot. So I pretty much just live there So I'm going to burn the clutch in the car and im pretty The tire is really starting Yeah, it's not like I'm surprised It's just that it's weekend now So I haven't been able to go and get new ones. I got to go and search. Maybe i can find something to put on here. All right. So I found this the only problem is that this is kind of leaking air, so there's no air in it. But I think this will actually fit. I don't know. I guess I could. I've got another rim of that so I could go and get those tires new instead. It looks kind of cool with that. Let's see if this car compressor can fill this. All right. I don't think that doesn't let's do it like this instead. See If this works. I mean, so I got too i gonna lift it up and take off the two tires You know what, I think I mean, I really like the look of this so Let's change this So this is pretty much the same rim. I don't know. the rim with the stripes. It's deeper than this rims are so. Well, let's get this. All right. So passing over to Finland. I think this is the border. So now we're in Finland so this place is actually pretty close It's like I think it's 50 kilometers to get here. All right, so let's go have a look There we go you can see here. It's was just a matter of time before All right. So two new tires for these two with mounting and everything. I paid EUR80, so I don't know. I think that was really cheap I don't know the brand, but. Well, He said they would be good for this So I'm happy with that. And a new, whatever that thing is called, this old one was a little bit tired here. I don't know. I think this is kind of This thing is really heavy duty. So it works. The only thing I really need it for is too when put it on the hook, is to lift it up. There's no way I going to drag this around this is way too heavy for that. So I also got some new hose This is, 20 meters, with six couplers. I think I paid around The inner diameter is one inch. So there is two pieces, 10 meters and 10 meters. Maybe some kind of a 90 degree angle would be good having here. Let's give it a try. Let's try to sweep this dirt out of here. So I turned off the air and the engine stalled, So I don't know what happened. Yeah, I got to try to see There is diesel coming when When priming it So let's try to bleed this so this is completely dry. So it's not pulling in any diesel It can be. It's not like there's no problem here. So it's got diesel is just.. I mean there is fluid in the tank. And there is fluid here. I mean it's almost like you can see so this is the air cylinder, This is pushed down through this rod here. And I mean, but I mean, you know, with this.. All right. Now, it works. Not when I. I don't really want to take it apart. It feels like I've got to get more trouble I got to try to give it a few taps. Let's see if that helped No difference. in order to get this off, You know what, I'm just going to open this hatch First. Guess I'm voiding the warranty now. There comes the oil. Well, it sure wasn't a lot of oil there. I mean isnt there So I guess the oil level is supposed to Somewhere here, right? This doesn't really seem I think it's stuck there just like... Right. So I've got to take this cover off. None of these screws are really tight. So i wounder if they vibrate loose or someone did not tighten them Oh, there's a spring in here, How you get that off? Am i supposed to take this off. I don't know, let's try I don't know why this screw But it's coming now Here we go. Well, didnt help getting that off. all right, I can get that out Well there comes that Well, straight in the bucket. Right. you see that? I'm just trying to remember this so it's going to that hole there. So let's get that out. Well, there we go Oh, there it is. So this thing here is. Is what's regulating the fuel Well, you can see these things moving. So this is idle and this is full speed. So the thing that sits here I think this was the problem. It hung up on some way. But I just going to try to crank the engine. So now it's coming. Diesel here. How could it get stuck? I mean, when I think back, even touching the throttle these things didn't move back when this was in place, If I understand how this kind of inline Is that, So here's pretty much a camshaft going here, make the plunger go up and down, pumping in diesel here. And this thing here, is what, You just regulate how much diesel kind of a bypass. So when the throttle is totally closed, from going in here No bypass will happen. And when it's half open, 50% bypass, 50%, not bypass, maybe.. and the camshaft pretty much goes It's meant for, to keep a consistent RPM. So this just work with centrifugal force. So this pretty much goes inside here and the more the engine is revving pushing this thing in. Everything here is kind of connected but this have the last word to say. So this lever here, it's what what is connected to the throttle, What happend.... into the bucket. So I got to use a liquid gasket here I've got to get the part in here I mean, I still need to fit this thing all around that, yeah, it's just going to mess. So the problem is just getting this in here and the spring here, now it's gone there. And this was going.. well. Well, thats going there No this aint helping It's really hard to see. Yes, woho, it's there. Now, let's see just so i don't smear the gasket on I don't want to smear that that is there. There we go, let's get that back in there There we go. So I just smear it on I got some new bolts. I mean it's way easier using hex key than, ? Philips. So this long screw I took out from here. This has to be the idle screw. The question now is does this thing get oil from the engine? I'm guessing the camshaft is getting oil from the engine, if the governor is getting engine oil. For actually filling oil Let's put this back together. So you know what? I'm going to fill this with oil. I'm going to open this But I'm not sure if that's the level. But at the same time, There is not nothing beneath it, that makes any sense for anything else so. I got these 2 things I never used these since. Well, I didn't anything with enough air pressure to actually power power this thing. So. So this thing is a breaker It just brake stuff. And this is a rock drill. So I guess the air is going here Since these are built be used in mines. So to avoid dust, you're supposed to use water. I can use the accessories It's not really I guess this works. So there sure is some power in this thing. I guess this. This thing is actually meant for hard This is not meant for rock. Kind of squish that tip now can grind that out. But even though it's still made marks here. So the next scene should of been me but I had the wrong coupler for So yeah, I did ordered that, I was in full business fixing my well Yeah. Getting the water up. I gotta link that video blowing some air in a well with this. So what I'm going to do now, and a new exhaust So yeah, it's not really a good thing oil filled cans. the plan with cutting this off I mean, you start it from that side to handle the throttle from this side, you you pretty much I mean, maybe not a big thing, I got to put this little thing on instead. And I also got a new air filter Not really that expensive. I think i paid, this is like 80 Euros So this thing is actually a little bit loose. I think that's why they used To just give it a snugger fit here so. It's not really The old pipe was pressing against this part here, so i gonna try to center it here I think I just gonna weld, this straight to the bottom piece I'm not going to bother. Yeah, let's do it. So the plan was just using this and then something to prevent water I actually found the old man truck. And I mean, it would be nice it's a little bit too small. So I thought, why not? I can just. Weld, this piece here and then put this piece here, I mean, it is kind of cool that way. So let's go with that so this is heat spray it's This filter So let's change that So this looks the same. Doesn't it. This is a little longer. I don't think that's going to matter. Let's take some oil from here right. So I'm just going to spot Weld this sheet here same on that side. Just so water doesn't run down here in the oil So I found myself some takeuchi red this is when i bought that. So this is like four years old But there seems to be in the bottom here. So the top part is going to come rather So I'm just going to cut off a piece You know, cutting straight with it's a little bit loose, even though it's max tighten now. Okay, so let's.... let's give it a Let's give it a proper test. So I would say for next summer adventures and that's stuck there you can see the distance here now is I mean it's good and protected here New airfilter Yeah so let's just give it a test start to see I'm just curious to see how that works. All right. That worked really fine. I really like the sound from this. Now. It's much more. I don't know, it sounds more powerful. So this. I don't know what it is bursts and then it stops. I don't know. Maybe it's something. If you don't have a drill rod want to spin or something like that So yeah, but I also have this. So this is a smaller version, much easier to handle I guess. I never really used this for drilling, So I'm going to try if this works So I think these are just frozen. That's why they're working kind of bad. I mean, so I guess that's pretty much it. There's not really much more I mean, it's below -20 C degrees outside so there's no way i gonna and test it on some rocks So, yeah, we're going to have to wait before the snow melts I think It's going to be really fun. Drilling with this so. Yeah. So let's call it for this time. So this is a trailer I got from a friend. The plan for I'm not sure if I'm going to take the axle from this Or if I'm going to use this complete The only problem with that is that I'm not if I use this complete unit, so I've got to think about Maybe i just take the axle from this.