Oh my god there's a fire there's a fire yeah yeah crazy oh my god oh my god holy what the hxxx is going on it's a fire it's a car Oh my gosh, there's people running around there some more. Let's try to get closer, let's try to get closer. Now it's at Kota Damasara, there's a car on fire and it's like exploding. That's crazy, oh my gosh! What the heck! That's crazy, what's going on? Alpha specialist Kota damansara BOMBA PLEASE COME! BOMBA is here! BOMBA is here! BOMBA is here! Talking nonsense cause what is even going on?? Thank you bomba! They gonna shoot some water on this thing or what? Is it water? Is it safe? Oil and water? I don't think it's water. They have something. tadaa bomba guys doing their job Oh it is water. yeah oh no it's not water Water pump stuck halfway What? Hey, what happened? Ah, maybe they are figuring out Ah, which thing to use is it? Ah, I think so I think you need to use that foam foam stuff only Not the like water water Or the powdery stuff? That's crazy, how the car blow up like how the car got on fire in the first... What was that car owner? Like came back from lunch and then car also Crazy, we record this on scene babe how's it feel like shocking no But Im quite impressed that bomba arrived quite fast Yeah yeah yeah yeah Within 5 minutes? Yeah, look at that Woah At first police came and then bomba came Yeah Shocking right? Just imagine the feeling of if you were that car owner When you finish your lunch and then came back and your car is gone Yeah, no that's the thing, I don't know how the car exploded in the first place And the crazy part was Before police came, people were walking around near there Even though the car is still like exploding Oveo, I think you should wear the mask back on I think you should put the mask back on The smell smells kinda funky Okay, woah Yay, thank you bomba okay done the fire put out by bomba already almost uh thank you bomba but still not done yet with the fire Crazy, first time in my life this thing happened. First time I see a car exploded. What happened? I don't know. Do you think like it's like something happened to the car or do you think it's just caught on fire? Car engine related? Maybe. Or maybe somebody blow up that car. For what? I don't know, I don't know. Who knows? Or this is my assumption. It could be vape? Vape doesn't blow up like that. Even if phone blow up, it wouldn't be like whole car exploding like that Because there was like second, third, fourth explosion like Explosion few times The sound was really loud Crazy Thank you Bomba Thank you I also wanna be a Abang Bomba Can I be a Aba Bomba? Aba Bomba oh that was crazy that was so crazy i never thought i would be like seeing that on uh christmas eve we were actually just like uh coming here to have chapati and suddenly we spotted a big accident i don't know a big explosion yeah out of nowhere oh my chapati and I want chapati and teh halia I was so shocked. Suddenly, the car on fire, never mind. And then when we zoom in closer with the camera, suddenly, BOOM! I was staring into my phone screen, right? So when I zoom in, then BOOM! Oh, I was like, shock! I think it's really been a while me witness some sort of big accident. I know, right? It's the first time I witness a car on fire in a crowded city area. Actually, the scariest fire incident happened. I witnessed in my life when I was a kid. I lived in an apartment in Korea. And then one of the units itself just BOOM! exploded. Oh, like your neighbor? My neighbor. Oh, your neighbor. You know how a Korean apartment looks like. There are like 10 different buildings, but it's one apartment. Another complex or your one? Another complex. So me and my friend, I was kids, so we were riding a bicycle. And then we go there, oh, look at that! Even when we were kids, we got shocked. Maybe they like, uh, vote. Like this married couple vote. Family drama, because that was very common. It was really shocking to me just now because, first of all, everybody was like, gathering around you. Yeah, at first when we reached the area, we saw some smoke come out from there. What was going on? That time it was like white smoke. So I was asking him like, oh, maybe it could be like some Chinese ceremony. I don't know, I thought it was like some Chinese, like when they burned the big type of stick. Sometimes it looks like that too. But then suddenly we get closer. No, impossible. The flames is getting bigger and bigger and darker and darker. Shock, shock, shock, shock. How am I supposed to calm my heart down? I still feel like surprised from it, still feel shocked from that moment. It's not often you see suddenly a car on fire what the heck. How can that just respond was really fast? Oh yeah, so fast. Many people, first of all, like they film and call someone, I witness that. And then like, yeah, police came to control people to not go there near. That was crazy. Why they even go near? I'm so chicken, I'm so like scared of that kind of thing. I know, so people were walking towards the car and like, I don't know what they try to do. Like you trying to like rescue the car. Remember before this police or bomba came, somebody actually used a small fire extinguisher. Yeah, the one inside the shopping mall and spray and nothing happened. The flame was too much. It's too big, too strong flame. So nothing happened. It looks crazy. On camera, it really looks crazy. Because I was staring right into my camera, I'm like, what is this? Like where can we find this follow up news about this? I don't know, probably the news will reported tomorrow or something like that. Well, if it's related about the car engine exploding, it's kind of scary. I know right, so shocking this now. This days I'm addicted to chapati and this Malaysian tea combo. Sometimes I go for Teh tarik, sometimes I go for Masala tea or Teh halia Wong's Masala tea, I'm gonna steal. Stealing Masala tea ah? The Masala tea here is really delicious. I'm here on purpose to eat Masala tea. Okay, I got some chicken for you to share. Chicken. Big chicken. Two person share one chicken, a person two person share one. So hungry. So hungry from the shock. I think that's okay. I think that's okay. It's good. The curry is good. Recently, I've been into the taste of Chapati. I recently discovered this Chapati taste. this Chapati taste. Because last time I just thought it's just bread, it's just dough. But the more you chew, the sweeter taste. And I realized that each shop has different Chapati taste. And different sauce too. That's the thing, it's not the same. It's like Chapati but this shop but this style, that shop has some shop particular. And the curry that comes with each shop has very unique taste. Dhall too even dall the taste is different. It's really funny. Christmas Eve by eating Chapati. Because Kim craving it. When I'm into one food, I eat it until I get tired of it. Now it's my Chapati phase. It started from Okra, and then it went to Chilli pan mee for a while. And then after that was Nasi Lemak phase. And then Nasi Kandar phase. Nasi Krabu phase is here. At one point you went through Nasi Krabu phase. Nasi Krabu time was crazy. We ordered Nasi Krabu for 10 days in a row. We ordered from the legit shop. So now you're a little bit calmed down? Yeah, calmed down already. After I started eating, I forgot about it. But I think later when I look at the footage again, I'll get shocked again because it's like, what happened? Why is it exploded like that? After this we are going to go like shop Last minute shopping And then we have dinner with Wong's family tonight We are going to enjoy the rest of our day Bye bye Cheers Smells weird What is that? Smells weird Someone: Bang bang! Someone: Are you the owner? Not not not Just take a picture Ah maybe hes insurance person It's crazy It looks so mad It smells so bad It's toxic I don't think we should stay here for long Run away run away Now it's raining so if it rained It could have helped the situation So much better It's okay It was so dangerous I know right Yeah right there Electrical box Crazy look at how burnt it is