It's early in the morning, May 29th 1914 plodding its way slowly along in the dark. A few minutes ago the lights from another but then at the worst possible moment, a dense view. Storstad's crew can't see more than a The two vessels signal to one another in the captain spots something terrifying. Out of the murky black he sees lights - close-by Then the fog dissolves to reveal the steel his ship is about to crash straight into it. He rings down an urgent order to his engine look to see if his order is followed. His eyes are fixated, wide with terror at Storstad's propeller thrashes in the water As quickly as it appears, the other ship vanishes Storstad's captain is concerned that his lifeboats to be readied. Ten minutes after the impact, all was still from somewhere out in the fog Captain Andersen It was the sound of screaming. The mighty Saint Lawrence River. At its widest point it spans over 100 kilometers Dive for 76 meters - 250 feet straight down riverbed. Now like any great body of water in the world and water sportsmen. But it's also a vital link from eastern Canada Travel 250km or 155 upriver and you'll find Here, encrusted in marine growth - tangled ship. You wouldn't know it. Very little is recognisable. It's a cold, dark, lonely place and only But what if I told you that this ship was and beloved that it had a popular waltz written The ship had carried thousands of hopefuls Now, scattered throughout its wreck you find These were once people looking to visit their going to new schools. Musicians, clerks, engineers, performers - children. 110 years ago this tangle of wreckage looked In May 1914 - in the uneasy few months before to leave for Britain. She was big, luxurious and smartly painted; liner. She'd been a familiar sight on the Saint and Canada for the better part of a decade. She was reliable and trusty but also glamorous If you'd stood on the dock as passengers gazed up in admiring wonder at her gleaming out the name which made her a favourite of She was called the Empress of Ireland. The Empress of Ireland was the brainchild company with a vast, sprawling network of It had started in the 1880s as an effort to Ontario. By 1886 the company had spanned the North goods and passengers from one coast to another taken weeks on horseback or by ox train. To complement this network the company negotiated steamship service operating between Canada, By the early 1900s this profitable service of hundreds of ships. It was possible to travel from Japan to Canada once stepping foot from off of a Canadian The world's biggest and best-known ships from Liverpool or Southampton in Britain to and the famous but it also carried hundreds to start new lives in America. But Canada offered plenty of opportunities from Britain to Quebec and Montreal. In 1903 the Canadian Pacific Railway rushed But this was not the glamorous New York service Canadian Pacific's early ships were second-hand, That and they were mostly combination cargo-passenger they carried as the people. To get a leg up on the competition and truly Pacific line set out to invest in their future; liners to be built to an exacting standard. They would be every bit as glamorous and comfortable route to New York and hopefully attract a The pair of identical sister ships would take in the summer season - they'd need to run weekly service from both sides of the Atlantic. Their speed would be complimented by their and Canadian Pacific would give it to them. The pair of sister ships would be by far the 14,191 gross registered tons and 570 feet The order was placed in 1905 with Fairfield It was a great choice; Fairfield was a renown The two ships were built side by side to the registered tons their bulk meant they could classes. By 1906 14,000 tons wasn't a monumental decade earlier the two new ships would have rapid rate of technological development. In January 1906 the second of the two sisters day; the first ship had been named Empress Empress of Ireland. On introduction the two ships had caused quite crossing to Canada by a huge margin and not The ships were safe; they'd been built with Double-bottomed hulls would prevent sinking called bulkheads divided the ships into eleven compartments. These could be sealed off from each other down creating a watertight seal. The Empress sister ships could remain afloat Safety tests were run to see how quickly the The captain rang down an order from the bridge all doors; the men below rushed into action. Stewards ran to cupboards to fetch heavy brass and then bodily hand-crank the heavy doors A well-drilled crew could have all 24 watertight None of it was automatic or electric; the reaction. For six years the Empress sister ships had for the Canadian Pacific Railway. Then in 1912 something happened that shocked White Star Line's Titanic, which was far the Empress sisters had sunk on its maiden Public confidence in shipping technology was with lifeboats and promote their safety features. Canadian Pacific were at pains to proudly and raft capacity for 1,860 people, far more To the general public and the Canadian Pacific Empress of Ireland were the very latest and As long as the watertight doors could be shut and all the lifeboats could be launched safely. Eight years after her introduction the Empress It was May 28th, 1914; and an excited stream ship's gangways and poured inside what would Just last month the Saint Lawrence river, ice break and thaw and now the Empress was for the season. She was headed for Liverpool and up the gangways of life. 1914 was a monumental year for modern world We know now that in May, the outbreak of the Tensions in Europe were high; people could For those who'd made the trip out to Canada or Ireland the temptation to get home and to go back to Canada with them - must have Of the two sister ships it was Empress of and affection from Irish migrants; on special and every year at St Patrick's Day a huge singing and dancing. That Thursday morning some 700 Third Class home to see family. Some had made the migration effort out to home disappointed. They came from all over and not just Canada. The American midwest and the Great Lakes was and it included some 300 Detroit Ford factory There were Poles, New Zealanders, Italians, from across the globe who must have stared they knew they were traveling on the best. Up other gangways strode the second class Many mothers were traveling with their children trips abroad. For many young ones this would be their first 138 children in total boarded the Empress of their ship and the bustling scenes around Then there were men in uniforms with shiny they proudly showed the red emblem of the The Army was a church and humanitarian organisation society's down and out and bring them closer This had been done in an era where wealth the plights of society's discards; the homeless, The Salvation Army had fed mouths and given in 1914 a conference was being held in London. This was an opportunity for members of the and to showcase what their own little chapter They were noted for their staff bands; it but by 1914 the sight of Salvationist musicians That day 167 members of Canada's Salvation class. They were headed by their beloved commissioner joining him was his wife Ruth. They'd met in the Salvation Army and fallen anxiously corralled the couple's three young 500 Canadian delegates were making the trip ships in the coming days; in early June there Hall and the expected turnout was 5,000 people. The Salvationists gazed down excitedly from turned out to see them off from the dockside. First class was underbooked for this voyage, But what the Class lacked in number it made Calmly onto the ship strode Mr Laurence Irving the two of them. Laurence was the son of legendary actor and he must have known he had big shoes to fill. The young man had wowed audiences on the stage But it was in 1901 that a young actress joined forever. Mabel Hackney was a talented actress from Atlantic. For Laurence it was love at first sight; the The pair were practically inseparable, co-starring and were described as "the best suited couple Laurence was famously defensive of his wife; a critic for daring to denounce Mabel's He had a good sense of humour too. If he was on stage and an audience member theater-goer a cough lozenge. Laurence and Maybel were at the height of theater troupe on a highly successful tour They were at last heading home, proud of their Their agent had switched their booking; originally on the Empress of Ireland but they were moved due to sail three days later. Laurnece was annoyed; he was eager to get started on his new play. He had his tickets switched back to the Empress wouldn't be ready in time but the Irvings and his wife actress Nelsie Vron. The two were anxious to get home and see their The party said goodbye to their friends and within the week. The Irvings presence aboard the ship attracted of society boarded that day, Sir Henry Seton-Karr, At 61 years of age the man had a voracious rowed and golfed. He was at last headed for home after a series have been planning for his next big adventure. The time of departure was near. On the dockside wellwishers gathered to see on board. Others were just strangers excited to see season. Gazing down from the bridge at all of the Captain Henry Kendall. Kendall was a young up and comer in the Canadian 40 years of age; but even by 1914 he'd made In 1900 he'd survived a shipwreck off Newfoundland. Two years later he had worked with Mr Guglielmo to shore wireless radio. He joined Canadian Pacific in 1910 and then bizarre of reasons. He was in command of the older Canadian Pacific caught his attention. Leaving from Britain, Kendall suspected the back to Britain. Scotland Yard was hunting a dangerous murderer Thanks to Kendall's radio message a police on boarding the party was glad to discover than Dr Hawley Harvey Crippen who'd murdered lover who had disguised herself as a boy. The disguise hadn't worked; the keen-eyed for who they truly were. It was the first time radio had helped apprehend To top it all off as captain of the Lake Champlain Liner Corsican after it had struck an iceberg. Kendall was Canadian Pacific Line's rising of one of their two most treasured and glamorous This would be his first voyage captaining river. At around 4:30pm all were aboard and the ship Tugs came to her assistance and the lines off. The big ship slowly pulled away from the quay Then in the warm summer air the strains of The Salvation Army band had quickly assembled and played a final song, a farewell to their the hymn, God be With You Till We Meet Again. By late afternoon the Empress cleared the up. The ship thundered along slowly leaving Quebec For many this would be their last ever sight As the Empress slipped away into the evening passengers began to get settled into their A few hundred miles downriver another ship vessel to the Empress of Ireland. Where the Empress was elegant and luxurious It was a cargo ship, a bulk freighter, loaded under the bulk of 10,000 tons of coal. But to the small crew aboard their cargo ship The ship was named Storstad; only four years When she had first arrived at Philadelphia the largest single load of iron ore ever carried It might sound a dubious honour but her crew On the bridge stood captain Thomas Andersen, huge moustache. He'd been at sea for thirty years and knew there was another important person on board Mrs Andersen had cheerfully joined her husband spartan cabin into a home with soft furnishing The ship below Andersen's feet was tough; She'd been built using a system of construction her against ice floes and other obstacles With a dead-straight front end and heavily of the ship's hull the Storstad was a rugged, Laden with over 10,000 tons of coal the ship Good navigation and seamanship was crucial in dozens of collisions before. In 1895 a German ship had been sunk in minutes Storstad; the ice-breaker bow turned out to too. All this can't have been far out of Captain way up the Saint Lawrence; but with an experienced the mast, he was confident they'd reach even do some more shopping. He smoked his pipe and watched the river in As the sun set and the early summer air developed began to retire for dinner. They'd spent a few hours exploring the ship just to arrive at the Quebec docks. Many of them had come from all over Canada, Going through the rigmarole of boarding a baggage - it was all tiring. Many went to bed early. The tradition was that on the first night didn't even need to dress in their finery There would be time to explore the ship tomorrow. Down in the first class dining saloon silverware happily ate meals and chatted to their new The Irvings must have been there; Henry Seton-Karr Ever the rake he ignored tradition and dressed The ship's string orchestra plucked and dining saloon was a gorgeous space with a it. As they dispersed from dinner many would have the gorgeous music room, a richly decorated dome. Up here passengers could sink into sofas and Elsewhere they converged on the library or The Empress wasn't as big or glamorous as - but she was pretty darn close. In Second Class diners chatted away happily; to enjoy like a smoking room and library. The Salvation Army members were excited; the Many had never left Canada; after dinner the concert for Third Class. As dusk turned to night and the temperature stayed up playing cards or smoking. The ship was well on its way now, approaching Up on the bridge, Captain Kendall stood in Adelard Laurier. His job was to help guide the Empress out Father Point past Rimouski; he was a local hand. The bridge was kept in darkness to preserve menace to visibility that night; fog. As the competing air streams converge on the Lawrence is notorious for generating impenetrable As the Empress of Ireland passed little towns in and the ship would have to be slowed right It was a tiring process but it had to be done; Captain Kendall led a veritable floating town's and specialities; bakers and cooks, sailors combined to create an army of people 400 strong As the young moon shone overhead the ship's in all three classes. Their job was varied, from ensuring passenger hour that all was well. In the event of an emergency they were also doors; without automatic lowering it would But as the hours crept on in the deserted thing on their minds. At 1:30 am the ship had reached Father Point off. He shook Kendall's hand and as the the Empress Eureka came alongside. A ladder was laid over the side and Laurier Then a sack was tossed down; the last of the It included letters from Salvationists who fun they'd already had on board. Eureka set out for home at Father Point and She was still brilliantly lit in the night that the little steamer's crew or Laurier seeing her. They couldn't know it but this would be The Empress' engines rumbled faithfully; the next morning by white-gloved stewards Passengers slept soundly in their beds. All was well. Captain Kendall stayed on the bridge that out from Canada through the Saint Lawrence only just assumed command of the big ship. He'd see to her safe navigation himself. With him were five men; Jones, the first officer, ensured the officer's steering orders were wheel. It was quiet; the only sound that might have rumble of the engines. But then - a single ring from the bell. High up in the mast, lookout John Carroll A single ring meant something ahead on the too. The lights of another ship, maybe eight miles From the other ship's bearing, this meant Kendall was taking the Empress diagonally but there was no cause for alarm. The other ship had right of way technically clear the other ship's course within eight He watched the other ship carefully to ensure The two approached and all was fine; but then The Saint Lawrence was pulling its old tricks out across the river. This wouldn't normally be a problem; there sea, born of years of trial and error - and For big steamers, the best thing to do was whistles at regular intervals and grope ahead You might think that it would be safest to turning or controlling its movements. In a river with a strong current like the disaster with no way of getting out of it. A ship like the Empress takes time to build there was just no way of turning. Kendall took one last look at the stranger it to be just over a mile and a half away. Maybe he was being extra cautious; the Canadian and this was of course his first time captaining At sea the master's decision is final and The fog had come at exactly the time and place it was like somebody had designed it on purpose. Kendall second-guessed himself; with his ship on the telegraph; full astern. He'd set his engines in reverse and slowly passed on. He blasted his ship's whistles; three short He figured the other ship would understand then the fog would drift and they could resume The fog swirled in and hid the Empress from The stars were gone; so was the moon. All of it was hidden by a thick cloud of mist. With his ship coming to a halt Kendall rang again twice; I am stopped. Through the fog there came a response; but It sounded much louder than it should have the fog was playing tricks. All was still - quiet. Kendall stood on the right bridge wing and Then - out of the murk, there appeared a light. Kendall's eyes strained in the dark; out front end of a huge freighter - and it was It sounded its whistles three times in warning; If Kendall could get the Empress's nose other ship then the impact might be a glancing He ordered the engines full ahead and the There could be no escape. Bearing down like a hound out of hell the Empress' heart. Kendall's worst fears were coming true before ship's railing and waited for the inevitable. The freighter buried its reinforced bow deep impact was slight. It was like stabbing a knife into a chocolate Empress of Ireland's hull wasn't reinforced It plunged through cabins and corridors maybe was crushed instantly. Kendall shouted through his megaphone; Keep He had immediately surmised the situation A blow like that, dead in the middle of the Empress' beating heart, opening its critical If the other ship could keep its engines going He rang down for his own engines to stop but began to drift away. With a grinding of steel they were separated As quickly as it had appeared, it had vanished The Empress was all alone. Kendall raced to his telegraph and signaled even as he did so his passengers were already The freighter's bow had left a gaping wound 8 by 5 meters. The freighter's bow was the height of a the hull from the bottom of the boiler rooms above the waterline. Those in the immediate vicinity that weren't were immediately drowned in their bunks; some began to roar into the Empress every second. Any of those that ran out into the corridors a tsunami of river water that surged in and Below, in the boiler rooms, men on duty were the side of the space they'd been working torrent of water. They did their best just to run up escape to close the watertight doors. The ship immediately began to roll under the Empress' meticulous watertight door plan The night stewards rushed to their positions those on the right hand side of the ship were water. On the left hand side the men had to struggle water. Some were shut; but many, many more remained Not a single night steward from third class The plan had failed; the Empress was sinking. Kendall knew already that his ship was in He didn't need an inspection to confirm He ordered the lifeboats uncovered and loaded crew faithfully got to work. Below their feet, hundreds of passengers, by rushing water and blindly groped their looking for a way out. The ship began to lean heavily under their The collision had been subtle; too subtle. Most of the passengers weren't even woken Some had been woken instead by the loud booming They stepped curiously on deck; the lucky The less fortunate thought everything was to be seen again. In the short few minutes after the collision, there was an unmistakably ominous sign of to a dull red. Kendall knew he couldn't be far from the run the Empress full speed into the soft mud He picked up a telephone on the bridge and full speed but the chief's response was The freighter's bow had smashed through The very lifeblood that the Empress operated and machinery was gone. Crucially, the steam also ran the ship's With a snap the lights switched off for good For those still down below it was a death river water at their heels, the decks slanting This was their first night at sea; nobody When the lights died there must have been Some might have lit matches to try to find water. Inevitably it caught up to them. The Empress listed hard onto her starboard width a task in itself because now passengers had to walk steeply uphill. The glamorous first class grand staircase at so sharp an angle it was almost impossible Up on deck the starboard boats were hurriedly quickly ushered in. Clearly there wasn't much time left; water that had one stood thirty feet above the waterline. Crew had been assigned lifeboat stations, post and tried to load lifeboats there but It was proving difficult, if not impossible, the crews had to struggle to manhandle the lifting higher and higher into the air every At least one launch was attempted on the port flipped. It scattered its occupants screaming into the ship. Many crew there simply abandoned their posts Kendall was still on the bridge bellowing crew below to fetch people from cabins, breaking He urged hurry saying there wasn't much Sadly if anybody obeyed his orders it would It had only been just over five minutes since to live. The crews at the lifeboats stations worked the panic and mayhem happening around them; It was all happening too quickly; boat one out over the side, throwing many of its passengers Boat fifteen, at the very stern of the ship, the water. Other boats got stuck in place, the heavy nearly impossible to move against the roll Boat five was loaded and swung out but then it just floated freely away. Usually it would need to be dropped forty river had risen to meet it where it sat on Below, the fight for life continued. People clawed their way up staircase banisters a way out. On deck Kendall was still shouting orders him out. He held onto the bridge and watched the chaos His passengers were in a fight for their lives, It had sat there for nearing ten minutes, It was all a matter of buoyancy and stability; But then, the Empress lost her fight and gravity She rolled over. 14,000 tons of steel rolled onto the struggling deck equipment broke free and crushed them. Things that had been designed to save them They weighed tons. They all came crashing down with a thunderous Lifeboat 11 had been launched late; its occupants their boat were crushed. It was an appalling sight - but if the outside With her left side now pointed to the heavens, lucky few in the boats looked on in horror. From the water, hundreds of mouths screamed dimly by two dozens life buoys which bobbed It cast a faint blue light over the whole With her whole starboard side in the water Some even thought the ship had been grounded On the exposed port side of the ship dozens sight. Some likened it to being at a beach but instead There was a disturbing sight; many on the ordeal or didn't have time to escape. They opened their portholes and tried to squeeze 22 cm wide. Try as they might, even with help from others They struggled and hurt themselves in the One man calmly walked to the back of the ship, and dived into the water. Others sat in place, unsure of what to do. The Empress didn't move - or at least it One observant passenger noticed that every higher up than the last one. Below their feet was forty feet of ship and was going down. Slowly, very slowly the ship began to disappear People who had been struggling to help free The water began to swirl around their feet; but there was nothing they could do. Like a slowly rising tide more of the ship's the ship disappeared beneath the waves and Where once there had been a proud and strong and passengers wrestling for life preservers. Captain Kendall was there too; he'd been was still alive, but cold. The water that night was just above freezing; Just like it had appeared at the most critical the Empress sank, maybe even driven away by ship. There for the first time people in the lifeboats hit them; it was the Storstad, and already them. Immediately after the impact, Captain Andersen side but the two ships had drifted apart. As the liner disappeared into the darkness loaded with all that coal she could drop to He had his lifeboats swung out and the damage When his crew heard the awful screams drifting was happening but they just didn't know They mounted a rescue operation to grope their fog had lifted and instead of a sinking ocean hundreds of people - alive and dead - choking Through the night they ferried survivors to people from the water too. Captain Kendall was picked up by a boat. He had spotted the Storstad's lights and water, he and his boat rowed out to it; the then they rowed out again for more. He and the boat's crew worked tirelessly 75 lives. At last, dead tired and beleaguered he clambered "Are you the master of this ship?" he "You have sunk my ship!" he had shouted. Andersen strongly disagreed. They had a brief argument; but no more was There would be an intense investigation over All night people were pulled from the water, By morning the steamers Lady Evelyn and the Eureka had last seen the Empress alive; now The Irvings had been lost; a first class passenger face bloodied from a fall. He was trying his best to comfort his wife; on the ship's decks as it sank around them. Sir Henry Seton-Karr, the adventurer, had He was found two days later 40 miles downriver He had died after helping another passenger The Empress of Ireland had sunk in just fourteen gallantry and romance of other disasters from There was just the quick, the lucky and the The Nevilles, the young acting couple who'd Hundreds were. The Salvation Army contingent had acted heroically their ship was lost allowed for little gallantry There had been nearly 170 on board; only eight The band was gone; so too was commissioner He'd given away his lifejacket and stayed They were all lost. 1,012 people died with the Empress of Ireland Every second passenger that had happily climbed lives. There had been 138 children on board; only It had all happened so fast; but there had impressive because of the limited amount of They weren't as widely reported or famous There wasn't time enough for grand gestures In fact most of the bravery that night will in the flooding hull. Stepping aside here so somebody else could Giving up a lifejacket here so somebody else We'll never know what happened down there. But we do know what happened elsewhere; like Wireless operator Ronald Ferguson had been when he heard the ship's whistles and felt He'd taken over and hurriedly sent out distress With the ship listing underneath him and having Ferguson contacted Father Point wireless station but the exact opposite. He knew that this late at night only the junior shore stations. He tapped his messages out slower than usual Within eight minutes from the time of the the ship's position and the situation; rescue He burst out of the wireless office at the him into the water. He was saved by a lifeboat and then, when had clambered aboard. When he found out the ship had no radio operator, he rushed to the wireless room and began coordinating Ferguson was only twenty years old. Little Florence Loraine Barbour, eight years mother and sister. The family had moved with her father to Canada in 1913; a year later Sabena, her mother, booked on the Empress of Ireland joined by Barrie. Crellin had wanted to marry Sabena; but in Crellin found Florence and saved her. Sabena and her other daughter were lost - but tried desperately to keep her afloat on a They were rescued and Florence died an old Uncle Robert, the man who'd rescued her. The following day, bodies arrived at Rimouski There was no provision for this volume of The Lady Evelyn had rescued the Empress' A makeshift morgue was established and the en masse, onto trains from Quebec. Bystanders were moved by the sight of so many babies. The government cutter Lady Grey embarked the sailed for Quebec where they could be identified It was a tragic sight; 188 remains of the off the ship to sheds on the quay. Just a day earlier those same people had set Now their stories ended here. It was impossible not to be touched by the as they were unloaded. As bereaved families worked to pick out their questions were asked. How could such a disaster occur? Who was at fault? It led inevitably to an inquiry; and a British Presiding over the whole affair was John Bigham, over the British inquiry into the Titanic Mersey likely had an agenda; it was a matter A Commonwealth ship had been sunk and there What exactly happened that night in the fog make for interesting reading. From the outset it is clear that almost everybody fair assessment. One man, one of the quartermasters from the that the ship had issues with steering. This was almost universally refuted by Captain - except one of the latter let slip that the habits that required a deft hand to resolve. The facts remained that Kendall had stopped headway and providing his ship the momentum But there was far worse; the watertight doors. Kendall could have telegraphed down for them in; it would have been a prudent measure. But he didn't; perhaps the nerves naturally Lawrence got the better of him. In the end the inquiry found the Storstad, Some minor recommendations were made and the war erupted and the world had bigger issues. The impact of the Empress of Ireland disaster A great pall hung over the Salvation Army so hurt by the loss that they wouldn't form London had lost its two brightest theater the sinking, thousands were dying every day The Empress of Ireland faded into obscurity that had been through it. Little Florence Barbour never forgot. Her dying wish was to be buried next to Robert As an older woman, 50 years after the disaster his son who gave her his father's watch, She visited Crellin's grave; he was buried Today on the bottom of the Saint Lawrence river you'll She's encrusted with thick underwater growth to believe she was once so beautiful. Only one fifth of the victims were ever recovered; The world moved on too quickly; and now 110 remember that golden moment, when the Empress - and one of the most beautiful ships afloat.