we can now write and execute to install any add-ins and no clunky super exciting I know. the new py function enabling us to import python libraries like pandas based on the data in our files, perform data In this video I'm going to cover step by step and charting, and if like me, you know nothing to write the python for you. There's an example description. Now before we start I should point Microsoft 365 users on the beta Channel. Without loading the libraries that I want to work with. Notice the formula bar now has the green banner as does the cell. Now I'm going to use the bar and then I can make it a bit bigger. It's To import the libraries, I simply list what I and I can leave it at that except Excel to display in the cell so rather than that I'll that the libraries have loaded, so I don't delete it. Then to complete a python formula, you the object icon you can change it via either So, now we've loaded our libraries, next I need to employee data. We've got lots of columns that I define this data in a data frame, so let's do that and I need to name my data frame. A common name the data, so let's select that and then I need and again to enter this formula CONTROL ENTER. this is a red herring because there are no other below the only other formula so I'm just going it's going to spIll the data, that's because Excel value. Let's switch it to an object and cell that I can reference elsewhere. Now you don't in separate cells to the python code. I could separate they're available for use in other python All right, I'm ready to analyze my data, so pandas. Now, because python cells calculate in row left to right, top to bottom. The data frame must python formula that references it, so I'm going to so I'm just going to write it in the cell. Now I so DF dot describe, and this is going to give Ctrl enter and it'll spill the results to the numeric columns in my data set and return I wanted to do was filter the data to only But I don't know how to write python so, I turn for me. This is best if you have a subscription is turned on. Now if you don't have chat GPT mode. You'll find it defaults, generally, to the can use it to generate your python code. I'm going already written my prompt. Let's paste it in and python code using pandas to return descriptive following columns. Now I found that it tries to don't give me example data, reference my All right, let's copy the code and see if that below my data frame, equals py, let's CTRL+F2 to it in. Let's just make it a bit bigger. So it's the describe function. Let's CTRL and ENTER and my columns that I specified and the descriptive ChatGPT is you're likely to get a different you can just go back to ChatGPT and explain that thing I have found is if you reference your data get an error. If so try referencing the data just delete the reference by name, click on and ENTER to complete it, and of course it works sheets always requires explicitly referencing that's pretty cool. Let's take a look at creating Now I've already loaded the Seaborn library generate with that Library. They're amazing! Excel. For this example I'm going to generate this and we've got histograms on either side of the some sample code down here so let's grab that and CTRL+V to paste in the code that I copied. don't need that so let's delete them. This and then we have some random data. I don't data in my data frame, so let's delete that line. so I'm going to delete that and then go and click I want to work with, put it in square brackets again delete the random data, click on the income. Close my square bracket. The next line is use. You can change the hex code here and use a it's in keeping with excel at least. So you can see there's a tiny tiny chart in there. cell bigger and bigger until we get the chart the cell &gt; create reference. And this generates so if the python code or my source data changes in the first thing you're probably going to want to sheet where your report's going to sit, but you'll it doesn't explicitly put in the sheet reference back to the sheet, click on it, delete the cell one there, and enter. And now the chart is linked the workbook. Hopefully, Microsoft will fix this by default, because chances are you're going to the chart in a cell. Now there are a load of file for this lesson you'll find the ridge plot, it from the link in the video description. Now expression if none is returned, you'll see Zero it triggers all python code in the file to errors.You may find it better to turn calculation lot of python. To trigger a manual calculation, If you see #CONNECT! or #CALC!, there's likely so you can restart the python session with and then reset. And lastly, if you see external with your code. You can check the Diagnostics pane ChatGPT and ask for help. So what do you think? use Python in Excel. Don't forget to download and if you like this video, please give it a and why not share it with your friends who might