You probably know that the Kansas City their second in a row. But did you aren't actually played in Kansas? is actually in Kansas City, Missouri, not And speaking of Missouri, did you know that the the U.S.? Despite the popular misconception it's actually the Missouri River that claims this miles. That's barely one mile longer than These are just two U.S. geography facts know your stuff? Brace yourself for another Fact No. 48 - Alaska isn't the Alaska might be the least densely populated state actually belongs to Wyoming, with about Fact No. 47 - Not all 50 U.S. You know that pesky time change that messes with the U.S. has to deal with it. While the rest of folks in Hawaii and Arizona - except for the sleep routine year-round. D.C. wasn't America's first capital. it was Philadelphia. Nope. The U.S.'s first this bustling city that the first U.S. President, You knew that one? OK, let's see Fact No. 45 - A fragment of That's right; you might think you're living in be standing on a piece of Africa, stuck there Fact No. 44 - You can see Russia from Alaska. you can actually see Russia from Alaska, thanks 50 miles away from mainland Siberia. Caribbean islands under U.S. sovereignty. but the U.S. only has sovereignty over two Ready for the next one? entire population within the borders of Texas. we aren't talking about almost 8 billion almost 270,000-square-mile land area. We're Fact No. 41 - Texas isn't the largest U.S. state. Star State is "only" the second-largest U.S. the crown, dwarfing Texas by a considerable Alaska is more than two times larger than Texas. Fact No. 40 - The four largest New York City, Los Angeles, and Chicago might but Sitka, Juneau, Wrangell, and Anchorage are Fact No. 39 - The U.S. is home to From the tallest mountain to the shortest 200 feet long and is located in Fact No. 38 - The U.S. features a At just over 29,000 feet, Mount Everest is But that's just above the sea level. Hawaii's 33,500-foot-tall Mauna Kea is higher. points in U.S. territory is almost 10,000 miles. to Point Udall, St. Croix in the U.S. Virgin miles. That's almost the same as traveling Fact No. 36 - Route 66 isn't Route 66 might be the most iconic highway in the to U.S. Route 20, which spans around 3,365 miles Fact No. 35 - Alaska is both the -Alaska is quite clearly the westernmost state Ocean. But thanks to its Aleutian Islands, the Last Frontier also houses the U.S.'s Fact No. 34 - Maine is the Don't feel too sorry about Maine, as the of its own. Quoddy Head is only 3,150 miles allowing Maine to hold the distinction of being Fact No. 33 - Maine isn't as far Compared to the rest of the U.S., Maine of Europe, including the U.K. and parts of Fact No. 32 - All cardinal directions from Yup, whether you opt to travel north, fine town in Connecticut, you'll Fact No. 31 - Florida isn't If you've ever traveled to Key West, you might've U.S. But really, the true southernmost point of miles from the equator, and it's called Ka Lae. extend further west than Los Angeles. west coast city - you might be surprised to learn miles farther west than the City of Angels. to have a much longer name. it wasn't always called Los Angeles. It was Pueblo de Nuestra Senora la Reina de los Angeles Fact No. 28 - Hawaii edges Every year, Hawaii moves northwest toward Alaska this rate means that none of us will But don't worry, the U.S. states that fascinating geographical quirks. state is "triply landlocked." coastline, but it's also entirely surrounded to reach an ocean, you would have to regardless of which direction you take. Wyoming has islands. fact doesn't stop the Cowboy State from having at Fact No. 25 - Two U.S. states don't Landlocked, double-landlocked, triple-landlocked? states are the only ones that don't Fact No. 24 - Missouri and Tennessee share their That's right; Missouri and each sharing boundaries with a whopping Fact No. 23 - The U.S. borders three oceans. Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, but did you know northern coastline is the one adding It's about time for us to shift focus to hit you Fact No. 22 - Orlando isn't Orlando might have the fame and the theme parks, capital city. This honor goes to Tallahassee, Fact No. 21 - Anchorage is quite a global hub. major hub for international cargo, especially like Asia and North America. have a city or a town named Springfield. that every U.S. state has a city or a town called one Springfield, famously known as the home of the Fact No. 19 - The smallest incorporated When you hear the phrase "a small town," you few hundred residents. But the population of the Nebraska - is exactly one person. state capitals that rhyme. to shake things up - Boston and Austin are the Let's keep the fun going! of Colorado isn't shaped like a square. more complex shape, one that has as many as 697 for you geometry buffs out there. On average, Americans tend to eat about 100 around 20 billion hot dogs and 50 billion Fact No. 15 - You can walk from Alaska to Russia. can also walk to it.. This daring 2.4-mile trek when the Bering Strait freezes over. this time of unique U.S. state characteristics? any other location in the world. is located in the Bluegrass State, and around 430 Fact No. 13 - Only two U.S. Bad news for all the caffeine enthusiasts- beans for this beloved beverage. So, if you're you'll need to head to these sunny locales. the road in the U.S. the U.S. Virgin Islands have got you covered USVI are imported from the mainland U.S., meaning Fact No. 11 - Alaska has the Alaska is the reigning champion of national total - more than every other U.S. state combined. also has the most earthquakes in the U.S. fastest-moving underwater tectonic faults, Alaska Fact No. 9 - California rivals California's population is almost as of Canada. With over 39.1 million residents, a few hundred thousand people behind Canada. the traditional sense of the word. the U.S. used to have enormous lakes. Utah, and Oregon used to contain massive bodies Fact No. 7 - The five Great Lake Michigan and Lake Huron are of the Great Lakes four instead of five. highest and the lowest point in the You can stand at the peak of Mount Whitney in U.S. at almost 14,500 feet, and then travel point at around 280 feet below sea level, and Fact No. 5 - There's a tiny portion of The Appalachian range formed before North America call themselves "hillbillies" if they like. highest mountain in the U.S. the tallest mountain in the contiguous belongs to Alaska's Denali, formerly known There are only three facts left on our Fact No. 3 - Only two U.S. states over 100 degrees Fahrenheit. the other one might shock you. Since volcanoes and tropical breezes - has never seen Fact No. 2 - Dozens of buildings in Over 40 skyscrapers in New York City, the Chrysler Building, are so large that And finally, Fact No. 1 - The If you live in New York or New Jersey, you've Statue of Liberty might be the most it geographically resides in New Jersey's waters. that tend to surprise or outright shock most And which two were your favorite or surprised And, make sure to subscribe to our channel for previously put out. Thanks for watching,