Hi there. This is another Life Over 60 post and There's a particular reason why I And that is because I'm really I'm busy preparing, packing her new baby in New Zealand. And, um, and public transport is have a little bit of a problem with. We all have these things, don't confident in everything and then seem quite weird to other people. Although I think this I actually missed a plane once you miss a plane and guess what? You don't die. Because I think that has to be the That you actually feel as if But on this particular occasion, you out, but you know, at the end of the I'm kind of, um, I'm worrying about sometimes anxiety tips over into And worry is such a But my three year old, my when I'm there this month. And then there's a new baby, and of So the whole family have been And although they've all been considerate things, and, um, my whole suitcase So, I've probably got room for my And my daughter, who's ordered herself some garden cushion covers, because said, Oh, well, you can borrow my clothes. Thanks, but not for a month, eh? Anyway, let's talk about anxiety the things we can do about it. When I went through the whole, of my main things that I noticed All of a sudden, I had that pit of anxiety And we can suffer from acute anxiety, are obvious, like, you know, catching or maybe you've got to have a And sometimes in those situations, good for you because it gets you sort to, that you need to do and sort out. The chronic anxiety, that's a bit little bit more nebulous as well. Sometimes you don't even kind of there, GAD, General Anxiety Disorder, anxious about, but you just have That also can be associated with like the political situation. I know that my American friends waiting as I record this today, we're a few The things that you can't do anything you to live in that sort of state of, you feel as if you're under threat. But of course, there's no We don't really need this, this rush through our bodies all the time. But that's the way biologically whether real or perceived. You know, things like global and do what we can, but we can't And, you know, the wars that are going children and the women and the young men of their countries to fight because it's And that can cause anxiety. So those are the external things. And then there's the internal video that I did about growing older, Uh, the one I did on10 things up worrying about growing older. Well, of course I haven't all the time, try not to worry about growing older, That that a lot of us feel and it's that constant anxiety. Um, am I going to get sick? You know, what, how am I That kind of thing. But again, that's You know, how am I going That's concrete. But, um, you know, what I remember when my, you know, my, my like sort of teen years and what have you. And I always had that constant And I, after they'd left home, I would just, just to soothe myself, is so and so, I know they're okay. And, and he's... I'll give her a ring because, you know, my head just to soothe my own anxiety. But sometimes there's So I'd love to know, how do you Because there are various There are physical ones and And I want to come to solutions as well, I find that I breathe more shallowly. So you're breathing from up here and breath at times because you feel anxious. Not sleeping, that That whole waking up at 4 o'clock in the An underlying anxiety that you might not body is telling you, you're anxious, And then there's the palpitations. Have you ever experienced that? Where your heart starts to did was get up from my chair. What's going on? Sometimes it's because I have had that happen to me, but normally And then there's rumination, where over and over and over in your mind, You know, sometimes I've felt as if scoop out all the sludge in my brain then that makes brain fog worse. And you just can't get off that and what's making you anxious. Um, and then catastrophizing. Oh my goodness. I'm good at that. Oh, but what if my plane crashes? Oh, but what if I miss my plane? But, um, if this happens, if that that's a big one for me. I mean, I'm flying on Tuesday and it early, but I know myself so well. I procrastinate, procrastinate. I put things off, put things off. It was like you know, creating this channel, um, I'd that I needed to talk to you directly. I knew that that would, um, that, connection now and, and, you know, to, as if we're not alone in some of the But I kept putting it off. You know, there was always a hair cut, which I did yesterday. This is one day old hair, so, but Got my eyebrows darkened and, Ooh, sorry. I may knock the table Sorry about that. It's a really unstable sort of And my eyelashes dyed, so... The things you think you have to do. Normally I do things like I clean the want to come home to clean sheets and This time, of course, I'm going people living in the house. I've had to just go, come They can sort themselves out. It's all going to be fine. And even if you come back and your know, an easy, easy fix to say, Or even do it myself. You never know. So let's get on to solutions dwell on the negative and Oh, I forgot, um, the physical I don't know if you've When I used to shoot weddings, one husband said to me once, he said, You don't actually need And on, on the, well, about my stomach would get upset. And then on the day of the wedding, time, I couldn't get out of the toilet. And it was just, it was horrendous. And then of course, you get to the going to need to be in the toilet. So that sends you off to the Yeah. Let's go to solutions. So the first thing that I've learned, slowly and more deeply because your body thinks you're in danger. So it's going to give you So, what I do is I take a deep breath I let it out far more slowly and Do it with me if you're feeling For as long as I can, a little noise came times, you cannot stay in that fight or the oxygen into your body and your body, So it will relax. And eventually that will get through going 10 to the dozen. So that's my first thing that I do. The second thing that I do, times as well, is there's a little All is well. You're okay. I might even go, You're okay, love. You're okay. And I treat myself like I would treat worried, you know, and I actually, and soothe myself, but I will say it if I need It's okay. Everything's going to be alright. Everything IS alright. Um, because of course it's important but sometimes you can't do that It is all right. And you know, it is all right. These things that we're anxious are in a war zone or something. It's very rare that these things are So that's the second And then the third one, is if um, or, or catastrophizes rather, What if this happens? I actually, do some disaster planning. I read once that - and my kids always say to them, if we're, go, that's your nearest fire, that's Or if we're somewhere I'll And, you know, it sounds like I'm that statistically, you're more you have already thought about what So it's something I naturally do. I go into a hotel room and I have about where my nearest fire exit and I go, oh right, it's that way. And that way, if you wake up in You haven't got that thought process. Oh my God, which way will I go? You haven't got that panic. Your brain automatically This is the theory anyway. I haven't had to test it. Thank goodness. So I do go, I follow through on that rumination of course. So if this happens, I'll do this. So if I miss my flight, I will go straight this, you know, if, if I've forgotten my and ask her to make me an appointment all that, all those kinds of things. So I kind of, um, you know, forward plan And actually that conversely has that, And then finally, for me, So I have a packing list for my suitcase. So I actually have on my phone, you and I have a weekend trip packing list. So I've actually put down there how many socks, how many, you know, what to take. I might do a shopping list. So tomorrow I need to go And if you're interested, I'll share that in another video. Just things like, yes, and I do things like print out my tickets, My husband does this, he always everybody else has got it on their But he's absolutely right, and I I won't have a plastic folder, But I will put it in the front of my hand or my phone runs out of battery Always possible. And I've got that backup. I've got a bit of paper with my proof that I've paid for it and so on. So that's what I do to soothe my anxiety. And by the time I'm through security, gate is, I will start to relax. And once I'm on that first And I know I'll be fine. It's not the actual process It is a long journey. I'm going to be about 26 hours So I've got to find my two, You see now, I've started to, to ruminate So I'll go and write You know, Terminal 1 to... This is I hadn't written down which up going to the wrong terminal. There we go. I was supposed to be going to and I ended up in, um, Minnesota. As a stopover on my new flight. Anyway, that's it from me today. Let me know what makes you anxious, let me know how you deal with it If you've enjoyed this video, please, stuff, or share it with friends that I noticed the other day I had something like 82% of people Please do that for me, you know, And also if you press the little when I'm posting, but So it's not like you're going to be Please do subscribe. That's me. I'm going to stop. I need to go and pack. See you soon. Bye bye.