In the Journal of the 501st, a veteran while the 501st had gotten the best of the that wasn't entirely true. The reserve units probably had it better, we'd say, and there 501st ever did. In particular, the 327th Star facing long odds and hellish conditions from to have suffered worse than the 327th - getting stuck with all the nasty missions? The 327th Star Corps was a detachment of the based in the Core Worlds. Since its own territory at least in the early months of the war, many deployed to reinforce the beleaguered Rim. The 327th was one such unit, frequently Following the Battle of Hypori, the 327th came one of the Order's most skilled fighters. became her clone liaison. The two focus on the mission contrasted well with allowing the 327th to overcome virtually any to come up with an overarching plan, and Secura get it done. "The Generals command," as By the end of the war, the clones of in the Grand Army of the Republic. for their expertise at fighting in hostile cadre had ARC Trooper training. It's unknown whether they had been through Alpha-17's they had just received snippets of training but they were highly skilled and used ARC Trooper Most of the clones within the 327th Star a trend that appears to have been started commander's stripes after the transition yellow and white doesn't seem like it in hostile environments, but it appears The 327th had an extremely long combat history, Wars. It was one of the five full corps that casualties. The 327th component unit Hawkbat a clash with a column of Homing Spider Droids. however, the battle ended in a Republic victory, battlefield. For the 327th, this first fight set Early in the war, the 327th was assigned to a series of campaigns across the Outer Rim. most notably the Sky Battle of Quell. During destroyed General Secura's fleet in the atmosphere do little as their Star Destroyers fell apart mop up the survivors. Most of the unit thanks to Anakin Skywalker and Ahsoka Tano, but Bly and a few others were stranded on Maridun, regroup with the rest of the corps. Fortunately Quell had, though again the 327th 21 BBY brought the 327th to Alzoc III, Florrum, was absolutely massacred by the Separatist-aligned won the battle, but by its end, the 327th had nuts for a unit of 36,000 men. Despite the losses, They battled the armies of Asajj Ventress in the conditions and opposition by Dark Side prophets casualties yet again in the Battle of Honoghr, in and face swift death at the hands of Noghri During the Outer Rim Sieges, the 327th Star grueling battles of the war. In the Siege of fought a constant back-and-forth war against army trained Anzati master assassins to kill but the 327th kept fighting for five long escape and participate in other theaters of the and the 327th was redeployed to As you all know well, the final battle the Battle of Felucia. On Felucia, the 327th Star had failed to - capture the main stronghold of the 327th faced vicious acklays, flesh-eating terrain than the clones were. Nonetheless, they albeit at high cost. By the time Order 66 Bly and his men were well on their Those were all some pretty nasty battles. and some they conceded to the Seps. But what's more the connections between them. Who in much that they sent the boys in yellow to Dromund been on Jabiim and Umbara as well, then the Republic's worst battles. That's not very fair. garbage assignments - they could handle them. but they survived every time. Those members experience across a wide range of environments, hostile environments. When you had a unit that the swamps of Dromund Kaas, the jungles wouldn't they be the natural pick to The reason the 327th racked up so much experience first to get any. As we mentioned earlier, on Geonosis. In the early months of the war, the opening up at the same time, and they only had a fronts. Thus, the 327th was dispatched to the hot casualties than other units. As the war went on Republic strategists reserved the worst experienced units, and thus the 327th got sent fight, and they kept on surviving, so they That sounds like a pretty raw deal if you ask in a vat to die far from everything you've ever A unit is only as strong as the bonds that Most clone units in the Grand Army of the experience and trauma, becoming stronger after Most Star Wars fans are familiar with the both of which suffered devastating losses but neither of them went through the terrible The Wolfpack was nearly wiped out in the Battle Wolfpack developed the strongest bond of any In this video we'll be sharing their story. While Jedi Generals led most missions, their work. A battalion was composed of four companies, a Jedi and Clone Commander. Each company was composed of four platoons, While all clones were by nature identical, and individuality in their men, leading to armor colors, symbols, practices, culture, Some battalions, like the 212th, were focused while others, like the 41st Scout Battalion, There was further specialization as certain squads were equipped for bomb defusal, aerial missions, intelligence gathering, or It was not uncommon for the Jedi to combine occupied worlds. This tended to cause friction between different on the best course of action, but their Commanders The 104th Wolfpack Battalion was led by CT-3636, Plo Koon. The two of them led the 104th through numerous on top. While often being assigned to rescue and relief nickname Wolfpack because of how ferociously as a team. In the early stages of the Clone Wars, their and wolf markings. In the early days of the Clone Wars, the 104th the Nexus, a trading outpost floating over Their mission was two-fold: capture the outpost holding there. Wat Tambor, the foreman of the Techno Union, hostage and was overconfident in the station's Led by Plo Koon in a Jedi Starfighter, the forces and provide cover for a stealth mission Commander Wolffe, along with Sinker, Comet, jetpacks while the dogfight ensued. Their mission was going smoothly until they were ambushed by D1-series aerial battle droids. True to their name, they fought like wolves, Wat Tambor. Rather than accept defeat and surrender, Tambor sequence and escape. The Wolfpack successfully saved Orkle and exploded. Commander Wolffe expressed his disappointment the base, but Plo Koon pointed out that he his men. While this battle showed how the 104th could worked alongside other clone battalions. During the Siege of Hisseen, Commander Wolffe, from their Jedi Generals by Count Dooku, and alongside the 501st and the 212th in the planet's The Wolfpack successfully rescued the Separatist the 212th. However, as they were escaping, they found a heated battle ensued. Commander Wolffe saved Heater and Twitch of These events showcased the dedication the what unit they were from. This spirit of cooperation continued throughout and 212th in the First Battle of Felucia. Tasked with hunting General Grievous, the Abregado System with a fleet of Star Destroyers As they tried to call for Republic reinforcements, weapon, a massive ion cannon that rendered fire. Understanding the hopelessness of their situation, the clones rushed to the escape pods. Plo Koon himself escaped in a pod with Wolffe They watched in horror as the droids sent When the droids came for them, they exited This battle was devastating; the 104th lost survivors were rescued by Anakin Skywalker Wolffe changed the battalion's color to a and the ranks of the 104th were later replenished Wolffe instilled these shinies with the same Wolfpack possessed. The Battle of Abregado was the fire from which on to fight in the Second Battle of Felucia. The unity also conducted rescue and relief The me of the 104th would adapt to any situation of assignments or the worst leadership. Sometime after the siege of Hisseen, the 104th, Plo Koon, Tauht and Kit Fisto, were sent to Their mission was to secure the valuable Argocite from Asajj Ventress and a local Khormai warlord. Donning cold-assault gear, the 104th worked Operations Division, known for their ability The Republic was only able to deploy a small blocked any additional reinforcements. Supported by some AT-TEs, the Jedi and clones When their AT-TE column was struck by cannon scatter, but this only led to more troops Fortunately, the Jedi were able to rally their After cleaning up all remaining droid resistance, plan of attack. While Ozzel suggested a full frontal attack, him for not caring about his men. When they received word that the Separatists the storm, the Jedi realized there must have an artificial storm and that they had to destroy The group split up. Master Tauht and Captain Ozzel stayed to defend Kit Fisto and Plo-Koon took a small group to take down the satellite dish. Ventress used this opportunity to launch an Tauht, meaning Ozzel was now in charge. When the droids appeared to retreat he commanded Wolffe argued that their orders were to defend Many clones were killed when commando droids Ozzel to surrender, despite his clones warning When Ventress arrived, Ozzel demanded that started killing clones and threatening to Jedi's whereabouts. Wolffe told him to keep his mouth shut, but Ventress nearly killed him and his men anyway, them alive, since he thought they would be Meanwhile, Ventress ambushed the Jedi and forces. Thinking they were already dead, she returned under the snow by using the Force to make At the same time Wolffe, Ozzel, and a few escaped the facility, returning to their staging Ozzel tried to defend his betrayal of the lives, but Wolffe retorted that Ozzel was When they re-emerged from the snow, the Jedi were supposed to destroy the station with. The clones and the Khormai started to panic, had to get creative. They eventually reached the weather station clearing the way for Republic reinforcements. While Ozzel, thinking the Jedi were dead, the cannons were loaded with argocite, which Upon joining the battle, Kit Fisto rushed to save the hostages. Furious, Ventress attempted to set the base to knock the detonator from her hand. Before she could reach for it, Wolffe destroyed Plo-koon called for Ventress to surrender, with a lightsaber and escaped in the confusion. Despite losing a large number of troops because victorious. Star Wars: The Clone Wars introduced us some cool and some forgettable. Some of these the variant we'll be discussing today only about Stealth Operations Clone Troopers, a Clone Troopers. They wore sleek black armor and they're often forgotten by Clone Wars stages of the Battle of Christophsis. just too cool for us? In this video, we're First, let's get the most important question out way too cool for us mere mortals. They were Army of the Republic as well, as necessitated were basically black ops, it's a fair bet that the Kaminoans and by their eventual commanders, and mysterious in-universe as they are out fact that they worked with highly classified We know precious little about these guys, SpecOps clones in general. However, it's trained in stealth tactics, both on and we know for a fact that operating stealth a variety of specialized roles under the stealth pilots and Stealth Ops commanders. Since we can assume they were trained in the use of as well. These probably included chameleon We have names for exactly two Stealth Ops and Stealth Ops Commander Blackout. Believe it information about the Stealth Ops from them. Since that there was at least a full battalion of were 576 at minimum. Additionally, Spark being a receiving new members a few months into the Clone like the clone commandos were. Lastly, we can since Blackout had proved himself enough However, we only know of one instance in That was during the early stages of Anakin Skywalker used a prototype stealth Admiral Trench's blockade of the planet. That who operated everything from the ship's cloaking was only crewed by a total of twelve clones, assignment most Stealth Ops troopers were given. though that might just mean that the boys the most likely answer to a given question is we would bet that we didn't see the Stealth Ops We have our reasons for this theory, too. primarily concerned with stealth-related Christophsis. However, that equipment was even for the Galactic Republic itself. This a vital component of stealth ships. Cloaking that would've been practical on a large stealth field generators or chameleon units were also a bit redundant. Many Jedi knew various manufacturing costs and generally didn't suffer likely would've sent Jedi on stealth missions Thus, stealth ships were probably the primary explain why we almost never saw them. During the Both sides had a handful of them -- we've already and the Confederacy had stealth ships too, of of Praesitlyn -- but both the Republic and the galactic-scale shortage of one crucial component There were a variety of ways to "cloak" a whole ship off, making it look like a piece of that was rarely a viable strategy for obvious developed. What exactly these devices did varied. just masked a ship's energy readouts and signal Of course, those sorts of equipment generally since ships employing them were Chameleon devices were a bit closer to what people These used sophisticated holographic arrays to behind them, effectively rendering them invisible problem as sensor-masking technology - scanners and even the naked eye could see through these True cloaking devices rendered starships nearly all kinds of scanners. Conventionally, they stygium. These rare and highly unusual crystals disrupt natural light and baffle a wide variety and harness, but when properly implemented, However, Stygium crystals were only found traditional source of Stygium was Aeten II, a crystals were first discovered. Small caches also Unknown Regions colony 244Core, but neither was inaccessible and had very small Stygium deposits, first the Trade Federation and then a bunch of market to get around strict Republic regulations. Stygium caches had run dry, leaving Aeten II There was an issue with that as well, Aeten II had been mined for Stygium was beginning to run dry. Both the Republic small stores of Stygium that they had, as, odds both factions, together with the Hutts and Black hoping to hit undiscovered Stygium All of these factions fought a battle over Aeten in which the dangers of the Dreighton Nebula ominous distinction of having the highest as all forces involved in the Battle of month into the battle. Shortly afterwards, declared dry. The galaxy would have to go when the Empire got sick of Aeten II's stinginess All told, Stygium crystals were a rarity in the as were stealth ships by extension, as, of too. The existence of at least a full battalion thinking on the part of the Republic. No of stealth ships, and wanted trained men to While the 501st Legion is undeniably the 212th Attack Battalion and its come in second place. Known for their orange armor the clones of the 7th Sky Corps were highly front lines of the Clone Wars. From the conflict's the 7th Sky Corps and its component units and in this video, we're going to be going The 7th Sky Corps was the most well-known corps of the Republic's largest subdivisions, and it Kenobi after his promotion to the Jedi by Marshal Commander CC-2224, better known the corps specialized in aerial insertions and 36,864 clone troopers in total, 576 of which a famous elite unit that often fought on the front itself contained Ghost Company, which accompanied several major battles, as well as the 2nd Airborne The 7th Sky Corps, especially the 212th Attack where the Republic was on the offensive, in invasions and sieges. In several notable to break the siege of an enemy-held fortress Sky Corps were composed of airborne troopers, and jetpacks designed to allow them to perform the non-paratrooper clones in the 7th Sky Corps some of them, most notably Commander Cody himself, It's worth noting that this makes the 7th Sky ancient military traditions - the Rocket-Jumpers, that acted as the spearhead of Republic ground troopers of the 212th, the Rocket-Jumpers would using specialized jetpacks, and they were Republic Army for most of its history, renowned the time of the Clone Wars, the Rocket-Jumpers represented a sort of revival of the concept, The 7th Sky Corps came under command of General Wars. At the time, the unit was not yet led by time and also had yet to choose the name Cody; command of the unit came at Kenobi's suggestion was the ARC Trooper Alpha-17, who wasn't It isn't known when exactly Kenobi took command it happened four months into the conflict, when the rank of High General, and command of the was just prior to the Battle of Muunilinst, in which most of the Third Army participated. special role in the Battle of Muunilinst, being Kenobi's all-out offensive against the Clan. It was the sort of mission that would eventually become renowned for - a highly Despite suffering significant casualties, capturing the IGBC's homeworld for the Republic. promotion to the Jedi High Council, filling the in the jungles of Haruun Kal. Fresh from their of the Third Army, including parts of the 7th from the CIS-backed Jabiimi Nationalists. you probably know that that battle was a disaster General Kenobi and Alpha-17 were presumed killed base, and the 7th Sky Corps and the rest of the in a vicious 43-day slog. Tens of thousands with only Anakin Skywalker and a small As you could probably guess, Kenobi wasn't they had been captured by Asajj Ventress and spent to the Republic. When they did, Alpha-17 left the clone commanders to think like ARC Troopers. Alpha who was every bit as competent as he had been, and been given a proper name. Several clone officers be part of Alpha's first class - including Marshal who took the name Cody before returning to Cody's first engagement after graduating from Kenobi - in the Battle of Skor II, Cody and the protecting the Squib homeworld from Cody and the 7th Sky Corps fought under a diversionary assault on a key Separatist factory was destroyed by Jedi sabotage, adding At Zaadja, then-Padawan Anakin Skywalker Sky Corps, but shortly after that particular of Jedi Knight and General, and he received Due to Skywalker and Kenobi's continued the 501st Legion and the 7th Sky Corps often Attack Battalion especially joining the 501st Christophsis. The 212th played a relatively minor units put in most of the work in liberating the had a key role in planning the Republic's Shortly after Christophsis, the 212th Attack in which they rescued what was left of Torrent allowed Skywalker and his new Padawan to complete this engagement, a detachment of the 212th also they helped retake a Republic space station In early 21 BBY, General Kenobi, Commander Cody, war's most significant battles - the Battle of Ryloth, the 212th's Ghost Company was one of Republic counterinvasion of the planet. Ghost of proton cannons in the village of Nabat that and once that mission was accomplished, the liberating several of the planet's Cody's men played a major role in the and they played an even bigger one In the Second Battle of Geonosis, the 212th assigned to secure the main Republic landing zone invasion went sideways, and Commander Cody and only ones to actually make it to Point Rain as the site against relentless waves of Geonosian and cleared the area. The 212th and the other units Poggle the Lesser's droid factory, allowing the Sky Corps suffered heavy losses in the Second victory in a battle that would have ended in Throughout the remainder of 21 BBY, the 7th Sky In the Battle of Saleucami - not to be confused a half later - the 212th led a manhunt for General in orbit. A few months later, the 212th also the 501st Legion. The 212th, yet again, seemingly but the same can't be said for the unit's In the Battle of Umbara, the 7th Sky Corps' of Phase II armor, the 212th Attack Battalion by this point, the unit had developed a reputation participated in the assault on the capital, Corps led the main thrust. They did so with as General Pong Krell, who had taken was deliberately hindering the Republic The 7th Sky Corps ultimately did most of the heavy pressing on despite a lack of support and constant cruisers. Their already bad luck was worsened into the 501st's theater, deliberately causing revelation of Krell's treachery, troopers from the him of command. As they were doing so, the rest of forced the Umbaran government to surrender, Despite the Republic victory on Umbara, the 7th and the same would be true in their next In that battle, the 7th Sky Corps attacked a Trade Spine, only to be chewed up in the anti-air guns. Commander Cody and several but the Republic suffered such extensive losses the clones stood little chance. The 7th Sky Corps Not long after, the unit would lose many more in which the Negotiator, General Kenobi's Throughout 20 BBY, the 7th Sky Corps continued forward, most of them were Republic victories. In Corps' involvement was minimal, while in others, turned the tide of entire campaigns. As the to shift in the Republic's favor, until, in the As the 7th Sky Corps was renowned by this it played a major role in the Outer Rim Sieges, campaign on the front lines. In the Battle of the most heavily-fortified Separatist strongholds besieging some of the Confederacy's toughest often enduring miserable conditions with a together with its Jedi General and his frequent hammer that could drive the Separatists from The 7th Sky Corps only got a break from the in the Battle of Cato Neimoidia, an attack on the During the battle, the 7th Sky Corps led the accompanying Generals Kenobi and Skywalker in The 7th Sky Corps captured Cato Neimoidia, though intermittent clashes with Separatist After taking Cato Neimoidia, it was back to engagement was the Battle of Belderone, in a recently-recaptured Separatist world from Corps also participated in the Battle of Nelvaan, from their homeworld. It was shortly after the of the 7th Sky Corps that the unthinkable had By the time the 7th Sky Corps returned to over, and all that remained was the naval battle soon won. The 7th remained on Coruscant for a yet again shipped off to the Outer Rim, this time presence of General Grievous on Utapau, and the the end of the Clone Wars. General Kenobi and Kenobi went in first and engaged General 7th Sky Corps prepared for an aerial assault on and Cody and his men had the element of surprise Separatists' command center and establishing pursued and eliminated General Grievous, the utterly routing them in a matter of hours. Before received new orders from Coruscant - Order 66. Obi-Wan Kenobi, nearly killing the man who Cody assumed full command of the 7th Sky Corps, they put Pau City under martial law, assuming eliminated. They were still on Utapau the next into the Galactic Empire. The Clone Wars finally part of the new Imperial Military, and its There's no doubt that war is brutal, and that On this channel, we like to talk about the harsh this contrived conflict to show exactly The clone troopers were no exception. such as the 327th,* got some of the or how clone battle doctrine** was particularly another clone trooper division that really drew Corps, and why we think they had one As evidenced by their name, the 91st was a division of clone In our universe, reconnaissance involves exploring enemy forces or formations, and other activities. be performed, but some of the most basic mission a route, or the strength of an enemy force. Things This is where the 91st Mobile Reconnaissance their job to scout ahead and send back critical As a corps, it was made up of roughly 37,000 organised into 16 regiments. Officially, although other Jedi Generals such as during key missions. The Corps itself was The 91st was easily distinguishable as well as their signature crest, which pointing upside down through it. and relied heavily on various vehicles, to transport troopers to the remote locations they And boy, did they need support. To give you an idea of some of the Sith some of the most important battles we saw Around 22 or 21 BBY, the 91st, were sent with Commander Cody, Mace out a Separatist warship repair facility 91st took heavy losses during the battle, The 91st were also sent alongside the Jedi to 21 BBY, an electro-proton bomb they set off which proceeded to absolutely maul One of the more well-known battles they were the attack on Lessu, the planet's capital city, in with the corps' AT-TEs and rescue Mace Separatist assault tanks. The ARF troopers take the capital. Without them, it's unlikely the In the later part of the Clone Wars, the 91st some bad. During the Outer Rim Sieges, a then Stass Allie, travelled to and remained behind to scout the area and uncover resistance. This was where Order 66 found them, Now, we hear you: "that doesn't sound all See, the thing about reconnaissance very hazardous, and very, very unpleasant. As part of their recon missions, the 91st were the and hostile places in the galaxy. They went in of recon, and had to navigate entirely unknown and kinds of enemies, with just the hope that they enough to send intelligence back to base. Think being sent there all alone into the heart of enemy undertook on a regular basis. If the danger wasn't factor in the knowledge every clone kept near Much like the B1 Battle Droids that were the 91st knew that they didn't matter in the Republic had millions of clones at its disposal, interchangeable pawns on a much more important value in the clone troopers - we're sure Pong Jedi such as Plo Koon wouldn't have made trooper divisions. Every single trooper in So, it wasn't enough that the 91st had to but they also did so knowing they weren't an enemy they couldn't handle. Their job was to the Republic wasn't going to shed a tear. And that's just the emotional baggage they had their mission, Sith only kept hitting the fan. some of the most unpleasant places in the galaxy. sand dunes, or creepy forests for a living. but using them wasn't always an option. There or gather intel on enemy fortifications. In troopers likely had to plod forth on foot, Another hardship they probably had to endure to act on what they saw. Undoubtedly, with observing and gathering information, the 91st whether that was Separatist atrocities, their mission was observation, not observation back with their findings. This meant they weren't horrible thing they had to witness. Doing so and put their enemies on their guard. Instead, Add to that the constant fear of being how emotionally draining and traumatic Now, we're not saying that the 91st Recon Corps the Republic. Maybe the Lancer Battalion their ranking on the High Score of Suck, really got a steaming helping of Sith At least, that's what we think. It's no secret that we absolutely loathe and for a variety of reasons. What's was fairly common within the Star Wars most people hated the Coruscant Guard - too. The Shocktroopers charged with protecting especially when those jobs involved dealing City. We don't really blame them, either. The in the Grand Army of the Republic, and in this The Coruscant Guard was formed right after the of clone shocktroopers tasked with, well, guarding Senators, defending Galactic City, and managing all of which sound a lot easier than they clones were allowed to serve in the Coruscant was as well protected as possible. In reality, fervent supporters of Palpatine because the Guard Over the course of the Clone Wars, the what would become the Imperial police and the population of Galactic City nicknaming them stormtroopers. For what it's jobs any more than the people they terrorized, means that we don't exactly feel sorry for them. and we're not gonna start being sympathetic just frak out of innocent civilians. They probably So what were the unpleasant parts of dealing with Senators. The Coruscant Guard was in conjunction with the Senate Commandos, they were also assigned to protect Senators and offworld. Obviously, this was a very important assassination, especially during the Clone Wars. hard part of the job. The hard part of the job As poor Fives learned, killing was something on its own, but Senators made it even harder. or some combination therein, and almost all and out of touch in some way or another. guard duty could've had the misfortune of being death. Protecting a person of interest who's want to swallow their blaster. To make matters charges for hints of treachery, due to the nature But the worst part of all this was that the Senators had gotten used to having servants and they usually disregarded them unless they probably happy to avoid more interaction it also meant they were often ignored, and thanklessly. In fact, many Senators outright measures. After the passage of the Enhanced the Coruscant Guard set up checkpoints all would ask passers-by to present identification. special treatment from the guards at when they didn't get it. Even in the Star Wars Additionally, most shocktroopers assigned to the Senator's own security detail, which been a hell of a job even if the Senators imagine being a shocktrooper assigned to protect handmaidens look pretty much identical. It would the Senator and one of the handmaidens swapped frak you're protecting anymore. Lots of Senators for the Coruscant Guard, they would've been just This fostered a general hatred for Senators the Coruscant Guard. Pretty much everyone hated than most, and for good reason. After all, it one of them enslaved, and you could imagine that most clones detested the Senate in general, seeing Palpatine, most clones believed, was the only The Coruscant Guard was also responsible facilities on Coruscant, including military the Republic Judiciary Central Detention Center. as glorified prison guards in two facilities - central prison. Now, being a prison guard is but the types of prisoners incarcerated on The Central Detention Center was including spice kingpins, underworld leaders, and base wasn't much better, as it mostly contained were constantly trying to escape prison, and they in elite mercenaries or even Separatist military constantly wary about prisoner escape attempts, With that said, as we've been saying, considering the other usual so let's take a look at what they The Coruscant Guard was technically a a hybrid police/military department. As part of with Galactic City police to combat the threat This threat was very real, in fairness. In the been subjected to a long string of terrorist which is what led to the formation of Homeworld to their credit, did significantly decrease over the course of the Clone Wars, Homeworld Security was quite paranoid, and dissent and Separatism. From the first days Guard against protestors, authorizing it wasn't justified at all. Clone shocktroopers popped up, as well as more mundane protest the Republic Military levelled several city displacing thousands of residents. go and protested lawfully outside the form of reimbursement for their homes. Instead, Not all demonstrations on Coruscant were however. When Loyalist nationalists founded Republic in 21 BBY, the Coruscant Guard was despite the fact that COMPOR was a with the Republic government. This was also accepted human applicants and promoted As the Clone Wars went on, the Coruscant threats to planetary security and more on to planetary security. After the passage of they got the go-ahead to throw any and you can imagine the results. Coruscant's lower and warrantless surprise raids on The Coruscant Guard became Palpatine's of Galactic City indiscriminately to The Coruscant Guard was nothing short of viciously an Empire, stormtroopers before there were jobs sucked, and that most of the clones who But if your life is spent beating up random you honestly should hate your life. The Coruscant after all; there were thousands, if not millions, Despite being one of the more well-known the 41st Elite Corps is often poorly understood. remember it for the green markings its troopers with nonhuman allies of the Republic. But none of weren't all that keen on aliens, they painted the war, and they weren't even a real corps. most fans know, so in this video, we'll be doing Despite its name, the 41st Elite Corps was composed of four regiments for a total of corps when it wasn't is beyond us. The 41st was itself a part of the Third Sector Army. known as one of the most effective with many of the 9th Assault Corps' application of overwhelming force. The 41st There were a bunch of noteworthy subunits within battalions were Sarlacc Battalions A and B, while in Canon there was also the 41st Scout which in turn contained Red Company and the 41st which appeared in Star Wars: The Clone Wars, another standard unit whose members painted their All of the clones within the 41st were considered simulation scores on Kamino or specialized troopers, clone scout troopers, or sharpshooters, similar to that of Imperial scout troopers, which sensors built into their helmet. While on worlds sometimes wore scout trooper armor, which was wearing camouflage armor, most members of the 41st as can be seen on Coruscant in Revenge of the as some companies chose to paint their armor The 41st Elite Corps also had a pretty For recon purposes and combat in densely forested and AT-RTs, typically piloted by specialized BARC they preferred AT-APs, AT-TEs, and HAVw exceptional forward firepower, suggesting open battlefields than it usually was. for long-range artillery fire and their as exemplified by the Battle of Kashyyyk, where The 41st Elite Corps was commanded by Senior Clone Gree. Other officers within the 41st included Company, and Commander Gett, whom we'll talk other clone officers within the 41st typically the Jedi General of the Third Sector Army, though The 41st Elite Corps was regularly deployed on typically to work alongside or otherwise Like the 327th Star Corps, the 41st Elite gained in hostile environments, with their scout Grand Army of the Republic. But they were were good at motivating the alien populations During the early stages of the Clone was stretched thin across the galaxy, and Republic strategists came up with simple - instead of deploying whole clone armies a small company of clones would be sent and then let them do the bulk of the fighting. with notable instances of it including the The 41st Elite Corps specialized in small part thanks to Commander Gree, who was a obscure alien languages and cultures. This the indigenous populations of strategically for the Republic. Often, the 41st made populations that the Separatists had written them in conventional tactics and The 41st didn't just work with alien either. Oftentimes, they swayed neutral and sometimes they did so on Separatist-dominated model - it wasn't just used to defend Loyalist job description included counterinsurgency a particularly unethical thing, especially Over the course of the Clone Wars, the 41st Elite war, Green Company captured Nute Gunray on Rodia Destroyer Tranquility against Asajj Ventress's Tranquility inflicted substantial casualties enough to participate in the Second Battle Green Company assisted the 501st Legion in the filling in for the depleted 212th Attack Green Company and the rest of the 41st Elite Other notable engagements included the Battle of and the Battle of Kashyyyk, the 41st's the 41st worked with the native Wookiees Kachirho from the armies of General Grievous. Order 66 was issued. Commander Faie of while Commander Gree died trying to execute Yoda the 41st turned around and occupied Kashyyyk in After the rise of the Empire, the 41st Elite and they went from working alongside alien species them. But this was less of a heel turn than it for all they worked with no human species, enlightened men in the galaxy. Even Commander seemed to have looked down on nonhuman species. Battle of Kashyyyk, Gree described the Wookiees surrounded by slavers and worse monsters, This abominable rhetoric paints a more accurate Republic's loyal allies, but supremacists were recruiting to fight the Confederacy. Gett Moff Tarkin, a brutal humanocentrist, and he cited Tarkin's work. The 41st saw the species they were viewing the alien species of the galaxy as and rule of the Republic. It's and it shows that even before the end of the Clone The Grand Army of the Republic was massive, many of which were notable for various reasons. well known clone units in the past, such as and so on. But today, we're going to be doing we're going to be giving some attention units from both Legends and Canon, from Before we begin, we should first establish clone units. We won't be covering any as well as any subdivisions of said was a part of the 501st Legion*, so we're only going to be discussing units that about - which rules out unidentified units in any detail. With all that out of the way, First off, we have two lesser-known corps - Corps. The 416th was commanded by Jedi Master the distinction of being one of the first clone Regimental Commander CRC-09/571, served under the 416th presumably participated. This however - just three months after Geonosis, in which it suffered casualties deserted the Grand Army and considered Next up is the 87th Sentinel Corps, one of appearance in EA's Star Wars: Battlefront II. maroon markings and specialized in urban warfare, the later stages of the war. The pattern of of another Battlefront-exclusive unit, green-striped armor and fought in the Battle assaults in hostile environments, often making Scaling down a little, we have two legions which you might know as Mace Windu's elite their armor in a pattern similar to that purple blade. These guys fought with Windu in in the Battle of Coruscant's near its end; to protect the Jedi Temple. These guys have the and Canon despite only ever having appeared the continuity by promotional material for Hasbro into the continuity by LEGO, which released Next up, we have the 182nd Legion, which primarily for getting slaughtered. and their first known appearance was in in which they lost all but one of the men deployed a similar fate during the Outer Rim Sieges, when stages of the Battle of Felucia, caught between Now let's talk about some of the smaller starting with the 13th Battalion. These guys a color scheme they shared with a separate across a larger division. If these clones under Jedi Master Jaro Tapal, the master of Survivor. After a heated battle on Bracca, after the execution of Order 66 aboard the Star destroyed the Star Destroyer to cover Kestis's The 442nd Siege Battalion was a unit sieges. They wore armor with lime markings favoring AT-RTs and ISPs for armored support. during the final stages of the Clone Wars, lesser-known unit is the 187th Battalion, a These guys were separate from the 187th Their specialties are entirely unknown, but they Our last lesser-known small unit is Horn Company, Wars. They wore armor with bright lime stripes security aboard his flagship, the Star Destroyer got a cool armor pattern, so we determined that Captain CC-4142, nicknamed Lock, and it suffered by General Grievous in 21 BBY. More than half of droids, and the rest were ordered to abandon There were a few lesser-known clone units with specific niche combat roles, and we've was the Rancor Battalion, a unit of elite This battalion was commanded by ARC Troopers, with and Commander Colt as their CO. Much of the unit and by and large the Rancor Battalion was units in the GAR. Nonetheless, they sustained including Commander Colt, who The 44th Special Operations Division was another commanded by Kendal Ozzel, the future flubbing the beginning of the Battle of Hoth of what we know about the 44th comes from a team of elite clones known for blowing stuff these guys fought in the Battle of Khorm, for the Republic, albeit at the cost of the Possibly the worst unit of the entire GAR to serve before but is silly enough to merit further of clone troopers trained for a single purpose - battlefield. Riding Aratech 105-K Lancer their job was usually to distract the enemy in their way into shish kebab. The casualty as you might expect for a battalion that didn't in the Battle of Muunilinst, in which they lancer droids under the command of Obi-Wan survivors of the clash, so the Lancer Battalion Lastly, we have 5th Fleet Security, a unit of ships of the Republic Navy, acting as marines mostly plain white armor, with only a few thin clones, and their role was pretty much exactly what unit in the Republic Navy 5th Fleet Security of course, if there even was a 5th they participated in. Nonetheless, it's to defend the Republic's warships, as opposed One of the best Star Wars games of all time - of course - was Star Wars: Republic Commando. Mandalorian-themed soundtrack to the gritty tone game distinctly awesome. An essential part of the commando, an elite badass in charge of a squad ever since the game's release, clone commandos which has resulted in lots of commando lore. scrap of said commando lore, analyzing During the early stages of the Kaminoans' clone modified, behaviorally-conditioned rank-and-file operations missions that required a greater degree the Kaminoans created the ARC Troopers, who lacked were pretty much identical to Jango's. But the was a failure, and the Kaminoans had their replacements. They allowed Jango to train to create their own batch of commandos, These commandos were envisioned as striking and the orders-driven regular troopers. They and independent thought than the regs, but they following orders than the ARCs. As with the regs, to the Republic, which the Kaminoans hoped would than the ARC Troopers. Furthermore, much as personally, they allowed outsiders to handle During the early days of the clone commando mercenaries to train the commandos. while many of the remainder were Corellians, and the Kaminoans promised them all extraordinary these trainers would not be allowed to leave befitting these harsh conditions, the recruiters "those who no longer exist." After a while, most Each trainer was assigned a company of 104 clone commandos, and for the next ten years they each Taking inspiration from the Kaminoan aiwha, the Kaminoans had each commando raised as part see their squadmates as their brothers and commando squads became incredibly tight-knit. also became extremely skilled. Their training was live-fire training exercises, and all commandos to resist interrogation. Clone commandos were not but also in infiltration, assasination, and much more. They were elite in the their skillsets weren't the same as those of part of a larger army or on open battlefields. independently, and they tended to disappoint the same way as the regs. But they were highly But the clone commandos weren't just equipped as well. Unlike ARC Troopers, who clone commandos used advanced Katarn-class the standard kit. The black body glove over and the armor itself was thicker, made shielding the wearer from extreme heat and cold, performance. Like the standard clone kit, it was boots, and a helmet. The boots were rated for all a hidden vibroblade for close encounters. and it was worth a hundred thousand credits on the were the Katarn Mark I, released at the start additional protection against EMP weapons and which was almost completely blaster-resistant The helmet of the Katarn suit an air filter, a heads-up display in the visor, and a tactical spotlamp. Members of allowing their HUDs to display each other's tell when one of their brethren needed the HUDs of Katarn-class helmets interfaced with but Katarn helmets had the unique ability to information for non-standard weapons, allowing The Katarn-class kit came with a heavy-duty but generally contained plenty of spare provisions and survival gear, an oxygen tank communications array. It also contained a deflector shields that allowed commandos to take The clone commando kit also contained a weapon was the DC-17m Interchangeable Weapons as a rapid-firing blaster rifle, a sniper Commandos also carried DC-15s Blaster Pistols but they had a recharging power cell that a useful last resort. Many commandos preferred however. Alternative primary weapons used by Verpine Shatter Guns, Trandoshan ACP Array LJ-50 Concussion rifles, vibrodaggers, Geonosian Blaster Pistols, LS-150 Heavy ACP Repeaters, clone commandos used lots of explosives. Grenades rounds, ion grenades, stun grenades, flashbangs, while for high-yield explosives commandos used and ribbon charges. All told, clone commandos As with the ARC Troopers, clone commandos' their performance, but their personalities own unique approach. Kal Skirata and Rav and treated them as such, encouraging them and though they still subjected them to harsh were particularly brutal, with their aim being Many of Vau's commandos hated him because off - commandos who trained under him had a Additionally, the Cuy'val Dar instilled the clone believing it important to give soldiers part of. As most of the Cuy'val Dar were commandos were raised as Mandalorians, taught with Mandalorian values. A lot of regular especially after the Mandalorian Protectors clones in large numbers. We tend to agree at the very least, especially since indoctrination slavery as badass warrior heroics was the Not all commandos were Mandaboos, Corellian trainers adopted Corellian cultural clone commandos were a breed apart, both from the ARCs a bit like the Kaminoans did, as down on regular clones for not being as tough and they weren't helped by the fact that the Like ARC Troopers, clone commandos weren't part of they composed the bulk of the Republic Special structure. The basic unit was a squad of four squads made a troop, which was typically commanded company, which was typically led by a designated Group, which was placed under the leadership of the SpecOps Brigade, which was commanded by Jedi attention just now, you might notice that just half of the original number of clone commandos died in the First Battle of Geonosis, For now, though, let's talk about all the known There are a bunch that were wiped out or nearly subsequently dissolved, with their surviving as we'll discuss later, were entirely composed squads" by other commandos, as they tended to lack commando squads had. Nearly two entire squads were with only one commando, RC-1013, surviving. the leader of Aiwha Squad. The rest of this commandos Tyto and Di'kut. That last commando's and we'd absolutely love to know the story Aiwha Squad seemingly had much better and it held together to the end of the Clone Wars, of Garqi - following which the members of Aiwha Of the squads that were nearly wiped out on or Niner, suffered a fatality before or 28, was killed in an explosives accident squad consisted of RC-1304, or Oh-Four, and one of whom was 28's replacement. All of these day of the Clone Wars. Niner wasn't the only original squad. RC-3222, or Atin, was originally his brothers on Geonosis. The next squad he leaving him as the sole survivor of two squads in all but wiped out on Geonosis, leaving behind Three months into the war, Niner, Atin, Fi, and of Omega Squad. You might remember these guys Commando novels. Known for their spooky black the commandos of Omega Squad had plenty were responsible for infiltration missions counterterrorism operations on Coruscant Darman, was responsible for getting a Fi suffered a severe brain injury that left was replaced in Omega Squad by RC-5108/8843, or own right - he was originally a regular clone forcing him to get droid arms as prosthetics, Omega Squad was part of Arca Company squads in Arca Company included Veshok the members of which were widely considered Delta Squad was composed of RC-1138, or Boss; or Scorch. None of these men need an introduction, Commando. Delta Squad was one of the few squads to they didn't lose anyone until the last days Some of the other squads that weren't so lucky the ordinary Aiwha Squad, which lost everyone true for Bravo Squad, which lost everyone except everyone except the commando Stoker. Gamma Squad the others are unknown. There was also Foxtrot RC-5576-39, also known as Gregor, which was almost Some of the more obscure commando squads of which next to nothing is known; Naast, almost entirely of Rav Bralor's trainees; all of which were only mentioned in passing. the Battle of Murkhana at the end of the war and Order 66, saving the lives of Jedi Generals Roan There were also a few clone commando squads with One was the High Orbit Precision Entry unit, or onto planets via orbital drop-pods, which was notable for not being composed of unit came to be is unknown, but it consisted of a member of the Thrysian Sun Guard. Tark Squad Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi. Lastly, a squad of mutated clone commandos with We've talked extensively about them in Clone commandos saw action all throughout the missions already. But a discussion about discussion of the First Battle of Geonosis, in commandos were deployed - and nearly half of largely the fault of Jedi Generals deploying clone troopers as elite soldiers, a job the Some were used as actual commandos, like Delta After this disaster, the Jedi eventually figured though many commandos never forgave the Jedi for commandos played an essential altering the tides of the entire war with on Coruscant. Over the course of the conflict, began to question the war and their place distrust of the Republic, and some commandos deaths to do so. Nonetheless, most commandos At the end of the Clone Wars, some commandos while others refused to carry out the order. Some went on to serve the Empire, some as as commandos. Under the Empire, the into the 501st Legion and almost exclusively and Jedi sympathizers alongside Lord Vader. Empire and deserted after the end of the Ever since the 2003 Clone Wars microseries, ARC Wars fans. From their dramatic introduction in the their regular appearances in Star Wars: The Clone been unfailingly badass. And, if these appearances Troopers, fear not - that's what we're here for. look at these elite clones, considering their None of the Republic's clone troopers were accelerated so that they would reach maturity defects were eliminated, and, as a whole, the and more aggressive. But most clones also they were made more obedient, more in contrast to the defiant and antisocial Jango better soldiers - but it also made them much During the early stages of the clone trooper batch of clones that lacked these behavioral delicate missions that the rank-and-file to the beginning of the clone commando grew ten thousand clones with less extensive however, the Kaminoans also made a small batch all. These were named ARC Troopers by the The ARCs weren't fully unmodified clones they lacked various minor genetic defects Fett were still greatly enhanced. But, as far as as a clone commando once put it, "pretty much pure were not only extremely tough, but also intensely ARCs were supersoldiers, grown and trained But they weren't as soldierly as their common Jango's antisocial tendencies, and they were also Because of this, the Kaminoans feared the which were experimental and somewhat unstable, and so the Kaminoans branded them as Null-class saved from an untimely demise by Kal Skirata, a clone commandos. However, the Kaminoans continued and Skirata ultimately had to adopt them as his which the Kaminoans labeled the Alpha-class, unstable for the Kaminoans' liking. the Kaminoans put these ARC Troopers in stasis in Fortunately for the Alphas, the need for a last during the First Battle of Kamino. As Tipoca City Shaak Ti convinced the Kaminoans to release work and turned the tide of the battle. Following of the ARC Troopers, and they began to be Technically, the ARC Troopers of the Republic proper - they were part of a separate unit composed of the ARC Troopers typically operated autonomously of or in small teams composed solely of ARCs or ARCs Many ARCs worked as liaisons to Jedi Generals, oftentimes, ARCs were given de facto With that said, ARC Troopers did have ranks, these were designated by the colored Troopers had the rank of lieutenant, as while others were captains and had red armor a member of the Null ARCs, identified by ARCs received promotions to the rank of Due to their status as elite commandos, specialty equipment beyond what ordinary clones standard Phase I and Phase II armor sets, and allowed for greater maneuverability, I and Phase II kits. The HUDs in their as did their gauntlets, which featured and tasers. ARC armor also had attachment points Troopers - and later ARC-trained clone commanders The average ARC Trooper wore a kama - a flexible legs - and a pauldron, which provided extra also be upgraded with extra pouches, allowing small mines, and medkits. ARC helmets could plates could be further customized with miniature troopers wore small jetpacks. On top of all this, in specific situations - for example, ARC heavy Of course, ARC Troopers also had access to an the standard DC-17 hand blasters, DC-15S and DC-15X sniper rifles, ARC Troopers blaster rifles, Z-6 rotary cannons, and enormous reciprocating quad-blasters. including standard frag charges, EMP and grenades. Some ARC Troopers were known to carry Now that we've got the basics covered, let's starting with the Nulls. As we mentioned of ARC troopers produced by the Kaminoans, and the Nulls were a cohort of twelve, process. Described by Kaminoan scientist disturbed, and uncommandable," they were of work who trained the Nulls to be ultimate even more so than the regular ARCs, trained in counterterrorism, and espionage. They were highly and their blaster accuracy ratios were second to with some serious issues that Kal Skirata probably Skirata made matters worse, and there's evidence The Nulls would've done better to be adopted by a years being trained to lean into their anger On top of all this, Kal Skirata raised the them worse. Thus, not only were the Nulls they also saw themselves as honorable warriors, noble Mandalorian warrior stuff. Skirata named all Mando'a words and concepts. Thus, Null-5 became Mando'a for gauntlet; Null-7 became Mereel, Null-10 became Jaing, named after a Mandalorian Null-11 became Ordo, named after Canderous Ordo; named in honor of the anger issues none Each of the Nulls had their own personalities except Ordo, who was a captain, and A'den, who sabotage, especially in droid factories, and he and a wise-ass. Kom'rk specialized in intelligence extremely detail-oriented, which made him good at charming, and sociable, a frequent haver skilled in counterterrorism and genetics. He a nerf prod to torture Kaminoan scientist Ko Sai her to help him undo the clones' accelerated slicer, and tracker. He was also a lunatic in made a set of gloves out of her skin. Ordo was the the most serious of the Nulls, and he really was jovial but quick to anger; he was sharply but for all the wrong reasons, namely because The Nulls were pretty much just and their work happened in the background of they lived with Skirata on his farm on Mandalore, probably tell, we have thoughts and opinions but we'll spare you - for now - and move on to The Kaminoans put out one hundred Alpha-class duplicates of Jango Fett. They were much more and they were all trained personally by Jango Mandalorian culture, or at least its trappings, and by and large, they were much with one notable exception. With that said, antisocial behavior, and stubborn defiance, to be darker than their ordinary brethren, but and unlike the Nulls, they could actually They were still one-man armies, with that said, While the Nulls had a real hateboner for any wasn't Kal Skirata, Jango raised the Alpha those orders were dumb, in which case the ARCs and propose a better plan. Unbeknownst to with special contingency orders to follow in per which the ARCs would destroy the entire city the words of Alpha-17, "they grow up loyal to During the Clone Wars, after their initial the Alpha ARCs filled a variety of groups as commandos or infiltrators; some, formed their own elite units; and liaisons to Jedi Generals. The Alpha ARCs often changing the courses of entire battles Out of the hundred Alpha-class ARCs, only Spar. Spar was born not only with Jango Fett's which, as you might imagine, caused psychological and striking out on his own. During the Clone Protectors, a Separatist-aligned Mandalorian Space and fought in several battles against the Spar claimed to be the son of Jango Fett and survived the Clone Wars, but most of his his followers left Spar with some serious trauma. Spar responded to this trauma by taking time of Mandalore. He was later killed by Boba Fett's The remaining ninety-nine Alpha and, though a few more did desert over the course These other deserters were Alpha-30, nicknamed a few other ARCs that we have names for but nicknamed Trantos, who was involved in a mission execute Order 66; and Aven, who fought in the Muzzle, who we'll talk about later, Mapper, and Alpha-26, Maze, who was the clone liaison of the Republic Special Operations Brigade. If you're familiar with any of the Alpha ARCs, you Fordo. Fordo was a major badass who commanded the included fellow Alpha ARC Stec, who was a heavy the Battle of Hypori, and the Battle of skill time and time again. He was stoic and for his role in the Battle of Muunilinst and of his squad instead. He also worked quite well A lesser-known ARC captain was Alpha-98, also Obi-Wan Kenobi and Kit Fisto in a mission on Ord a freedom fighter, Sheeka Tull, who had been a relationship of their own during the operation sacrifice himself to liberate Ord Cestus, calling deep in Separatist territory. He was survived by Lastly, there's our favorite clone of all time - Alpha, as Anakin Skywalker called him, didn't take provoking his Jedi superiors for fun, whether callous strategy proposals or telling the Padawan death. After his debut appearance on Kamino, working closely with him and Anakin Skywalker Jabiim. At Jabiim, he and Kenobi were presumed KIA Alpha survived weeks of torture in Ventress's Following this incident, Alpha returned to Kamino, commanders, which taught them to think like ARC first graduates, a man who called himself Cody, Near the end of the war, Alpha returned to where he was struck down by General Grievous. from the waist down, Alpha insisted on continuing He was loaded onto a medical transport after as this transport was commandeered by Asajj somewhat of an anticlimactic ending, but we up and got into all sorts of shenanigans in In total, there were only 106 ARC Troopers numbers dwindled fast, and midway through the regular clones who showed ARC Trooper spirit Troopers in the sense that they weren't less independent, and less creative, but and their increased autonomy as ARC Troopers It's ambiguous whether some ARC Troopers were ARC Troopers. Several of these clones all had the of Kamino - their names were Blitz, Colt, Havoc, ARC Troopers Cards and Carg, both of whom who are known to have been recruits, we nicknamed Echo; CT-5555, nicknamed Fives; you all recognize most of those names, and we These ARC inductees helped keep the ARC Trooper Wars, but it didn't last long after that. the Empire really didn't like the idea independent thinkers. Some ARC Troopers stuck while did not. A number of ARC Troopers hid like Alpha-66, or Muzzle, who we mentioned the leader of the Aurodium Sword, a mercenary rebel cells, and Imperials alike. but he was pretty based in that he had a policy accepting Wookiees into the Aurodium Sword as full second-class citizens. A few ARCs were even more It goes without saying that war is bloody, and as in reality. The Clone Wars in particular conflict rarely shied away from that fact. But and in fact the wounded typically outnumber This was true in the Clone Wars as well - many and as a result medical units were necessary Republic Mobile Surgical Units, or RMSUs for and in this video we'll be giving In any given battle of the Clone Wars, there were bolts, of course, were the most obvious hazard, concussive force from explosions, fumes and other and much, much more to worry about. The primarily to mitigate these secondary concerns but that armor wasn't perfect, and there were A lot of the time these hazards proved deadly, things got messy. The human body is quite a wound can be difficult to determine even when a the extent of injuries. It was often very hard to were capable of pulling through, especially We're going to dwell on that example for a bit was a messy ordeal, and understanding that is to deal with on a daily basis. Blasters worked a and they were more complicated than simple laser which is to say concentrated packages damage primarily through concussive force Essentially, when a blaster bolt hit a target, a massive transfer of kinetic energy. When a this resulted in a small explosion and resulting in telltale blast points. But the results were much messier. The bolts typically and what's more, the process of a bolt passing the wounds to evaporate. As steam takes up more and the like that happened to be near blaster through, causing massive damage to any surrounding This, for the record, is another reason why clone to mass-produce armor that outright deflected clones could at least absorb some of the energy Nonetheless, the damage caused by a blaster the surface. If an unarmored soldier were to be wound had the potential to annihilate the whole even a glancing blaster bolt to the shoulder thankfully for the clones, the Republic's medical were far better prepared to deal with blaster Like all organized fighting forces, the Republic in Star Wars: The Clone Wars, clones like immediate relief to wounded clones. Typically, one of which was kept with an emergency med kit in featured on most large Republic vehicles - one was LAAT/i gunships, for example, and another was Clone medics and IM-6 droids helped easy task. As in the real world, the wounded those with extensive wounds, and those that took care of the first category with a quick while the third category were afforded what final breaths. The second category, had a chance of pulling through, were Republic Mobile Surgical Units were basically that set up field hospitals on crucial to any given battle varied depending on the of one of the bloodiest battles of the Clone Wars, and even then they had more wounded on their RMSUs were manned by a mix of clone and conscripted personnel, which included of course, was to save as many clone lives as they couldn't save a bit more comfortable as incoming cases could go from and there were always more coming in. If you've In theory, RMSUs were capable of treating but frequent supply shortages and the chaos case. For example, one of the most common which is a real-world side effect of infection in or certain chemicals, causing swelling and, in utterly blaster bolts ravaged tissue, sepsis was RMSUs were equipped with antisepsis fields, energy killing bacteria and neutralizing chemical agents, a problem in field hospitals. However, shortages weren't enough fields, and doctors weren't always that sepsis deaths did indeed occur, and RMSU RMSUs were equipped with other heavy-duty as many of you know, was a chemical and thus was capable of healing a massive applied to wounded clones as a means of frequently used for serious cases, though had to be stabilized the good old-fashioned even equipped with medical-issue cloning tanks, But not every medical issue can be solved with chuck him in a bacta tank, and hope to be treated in detail first, and that's Surgical Units came in. The most crucial doctors recruited from across the Republic stabilized serious injuries and patched up clones and were thus essential in ensuring One of the most important assets for a RMSU guaranteed to every unit, as Palpatine of doing their jobs. But no amount of that the Jedi were natural healers, and as proving essential in saving countless lives. A in healing practically worked full-time who spent months with RMSU 7 on Drongar. In witnessed with the RMSUs on Drongar inspired There were many units in the Grand Army of the from the 501st Legion to the 41st Elite Corps to as we know, was the Galactic Marines. Known mostly Sith, the Galactic Marines were K i-Adi-Mundi's considered one of the most effective in the entire seen of the Galactic Marines, be it in Canon or When the Grand Army of the Republic was the Galactic Marines didn't the men who would become the first Galactic a unit in the Fourth Sector Army. The 21st differently than the rest of the clone units factors, the men of the unit were above average, The 21st Nova Corps was led by Clone Marshal Bacara was a bit of a loner for a clone, but was Commander Neyo, Bacara developed military tactics BARC Speeders, and made the 21st Nova Corps into especially after he participated in commander to unilaterally reassign clones that didn't 21st Nova Corps was composed of only the best only augmented by Bacara's tactics, which Bacara and the 21st Nova Corps served with a served under Ki-Adi-Mundi, a high-ranking Bacara made an excellent team, and developed a disagreements. Mundi was disturbed by Bacara's several times, but nonetheless appreciated his Several months into the war, as the Grand Army create more specialized units, Mundi made the 21st would lead, which came to be called the Galactic this new role, which would lead to them becoming The Galactic Marines were intended to serve as a versatility. They were trained for combat in all or in space, including in inhospitable conditions. and ship-boarding roles, and were used to the Clone Wars. The Galactic Marines had unique environments, which most notably included mesh After their creation, the Galactic Marines quickly In 22 BBY, the Galactic Marines are known both of which were very inhospitable worlds, latter being a desert. It is also possible, fought in the battles of Lianna and Hypori, as then they suffered exceptionally Ki-Adi-Mundi fought in the Battle of Galactic Marines were with him. While Mundi's not Commander Bacara, it is possible that Jet's troopers - was actually part of the Galactic it's definitely possible, especially After the Second Battle of Geonosis, to Jedi Council meetings, most of which he was an eighteen-month-gap between his appearance at the start of the Outer Rim Sieges, with Galactic Marines don't appear at all save time - they're absent for even longer if The Galactic Marines finally make their when, under Ki-Adi-Mundi, they fought in the the Jedi Council its best and brightest Jedi stronghold, which was believed to be hosting Count time. The Republic passed the CIS blockade of Boz on the planet. Mundi led the Galactic Marines with many other elite units, was eventually able Not long after, the Galactic Marines are Rim Sieges' Serenno Theater, in which the Separatist Space on the Outer Hydian, which like Dooku's homeworld of Serenno and The assault in the Serenno Theater began with a and the Galactic Marines in particular In one well-documented skirmish on New prototype Spacetrooper armor suits, which granted During the battle, however, the weapons of the however, Commander Bacara ordered the Marines to and the Marines resorted to literally ripping enhanced strength. The Galactic Marines assumedly over whom them also emerged victorious, A detachment of the Galactic Marines also Clone Wars, which was made necessary by Toola's Bacara was involved in the battle, however - the Generals Simms and Hudorra, alongside Commander battle as well, albeit only after the execution of Even if you don't count some of the speculation to be fair. But most of them are clustered and some of them didn't even involve still remains: what were the Galactic Marines lies in that exception we mentioned earlier: In the later half of 21 BBY, the Republic began stronghold world of Mygeeto. After the Battle of military staging world, and on top of that considered it a vault world; the Republic, Delta Squad was responsible for initial enemy ground defenses in preparation for a larger were assigned to Mygeeto for said assault, their troops across the planet and besiege enemy the -quickly ground to a stalemate - a The Battle of Mygeeto was the longest battle of Atraken and the Battle of Drongar. From 21 BBY claiming the lives of untold numbers of clone Marines were present for the entire battle, but implies that they were, at least partly. unit was briefly transferred to Boz Pity and New the Outer Rim Sieges before being transferred Near the end of the Clone Wars, Supreme Chancellor declaring it a priority target and assigning forces already present on the world. fully deployed on Mygeeto by this and at long last started to make progress. they were joined in the battle by the Supreme Chancellor Palpatine to collect energy The Galactic Marines continued fighting on played out. In one particular part of the battle, in a charge across a key bridge that divided only for Bacara to receive Order 66. In the they gunned down Mundi on Bacara's themselves. They were later reformed In summary, the Galactic Marines were seen for more than half of the war, they were as it would have been amazing to see them The 501st Legion was perhaps the most well universe. From the Clone Wars to the Galactic 501st doggedly carried out the will of the every turn. During the Clone Wars, the 501st was the Grand Army of the Republic, serving under the 501st became Vader's Fist, composed only of video, we'll be telling the full Legends story of First things first, let's talk about formal part of the GAR command structure. Rather, "legion" was just a nickname for elite which was in the upper middle of the GAR's troopers, which subdivided into four regiments, and 1,024 squads. Each brigade was commanded Structurally, the 501st was no at least not at first. Though it was important, the unit was selected for special treatment. On the Kaminoans selected the 501st organizing the best-performing clone trainee Wars kicked off, the 501st was already the first clone units to be battle-ready, and saw In the Battle of Geonosis, the 501st served forward positions and escorting AT-TE walkers Hardcell transports. On Geonosis, the 501st The battle was bloody and, as one veteran later but it ended with a Republic victory, and After Geonosis, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine the 501st was put through a top-secret training elite. The 501st was informed that it would be Palpatine, a duty the Legion's clones accepted. members of the 501st were sprinkled throughout personal agents, and the rest of the Legion was in many battles during the early months of acting as reinforcements for other units. In the rotating between different theaters of the when the entire 501st was placed under the Skywalker made Captain Rex his second-in-command, structure. Unlike many early war clone he had been promoted from private for heroic and he had risen through the ranks until he he leapfrogged four whole ranks to Skywalker's perogative. Why Anakin Commander is beyond us, as he certainly Under Rex's de facto command, Torrent leading the charge as the 501st saw action the Legion played a critical role in the vanguard of the Republic force in the retaking Ahsoka Tano was assigned as General Skywalker's command structure. Tano was instrumental in and was readily accepted by the clones After Christophsis, Skywalker, Tano, Rex, and they launched an assault against a Separatist-held the Hutt's son Rotta prisoner. While Skywalker and Torrent Company fought nearly to the last a second wave of Separatist forces. The timely from being wiped out entirely, but by the end of Torrent Company's numbers were soon replenished, his batchers, and the scars of Teth lingered long however; as soon as it was at fighting strength, It played a key role in the Battle of Bothawui, with asteroid-mounted AT-TEs, and a detachment a major Separatist listening post. Rex and a major role in the Battle of JanFathal, who had been captured by Separatist rebels opposed Torrent Company and the rest of the 501st BBY. As other detachments of the 501st assisted Company helped evacuate Republic forces during Bothan spynet facility from General Grievous in one of the 501st's finest hours, but it also landing Rex and many other clones in bacta tanks. the Battle of Ryloth, where Torrent Company mopped In case you couldn't tell, Torrent Company had the early war, when the 501st was typically Rex lost nearly all of his men on multiple new troopers from other units. Many of these guilt. As a veteran of the 501st would later After Ryloth, the 501st Legion was deployed kept suffering heavy casualties, losing many men Malastare, but it no less remained integral the 501st was one of several major clone units following up on intel gathered by Captain The 501st joined in the grueling first it suffered fewer casualties than its and his men to lead the assault on the Tano and Barriss Offee sabotaged the factory at the factory gates. After the main factory was with detachments from the Legion putting Throughout 21 BBY, the 501st fought in a number it participated in an unsuccessful mission shot down following a pitched space battle. When assault on Kamino, the 501st was recalled Legion fought ferociously against the Separatist though yet again this came at a high cost. Two an especially important role in the battle, Echo and Fives became independent, but they Late in 21 BBY, the Kaminoan armorsmiths unveiled adopted across the GAR. Prior to the switch, many stripes, but the adoption of Phase II made this Not everyone in the 501st was happy with the feelings about it, so he ended up hybridizing parts of both sets together to create what was, The 501st's new gear first saw action in conflicts of the war. Early in the battle, General was placed under the temporary command of General and through narrow jungle passes, incurring heavy Rex had stocked the Legion with some of the most they weren't as willing to take Krell's abuse 501st simply worked around Krell, finding creative but as the casualties mounted, some of This culminated in three clones stealing captured battleship in orbit, which turned the tide He ordered the clones to be executed, but the order. In retaliation, Krell orchestrated the 501st against a platoon from the 212th Attack and it was discovered that Krell orchestrated it, After a short battle, the traitorous Jedi General the 212th captured the Umbaran capital. The dearly for the victory, and none of its men would In 20 BBY, Ahsoka Tano left the Jedi the GAR. Many in the 501st were saddened by Skywalker had much time to mourn. The demands where the 501st and other clone units fought armies. The 501st came close to breaking the momentum after Tup, one of Rex's men, suddenly erratic behavior baffled the remaining Jedi chalked it up to a Ringo Vindan parasite, The 501st returned to Coruscant, and later seizing the crucial Banking Clan world for and the rest of the 501st continued to fight on they stuck together until the Battle of detached and fought in the Siege of Mandalore. however, so we won't be discussing it in this days of the war, Senior Commander Appo replaced Now, at this point, we need to and not just because of Mandalore. If you know that it's time for us to discuss the Legion's missions in the final days of the war. of the 501st - it can't possibly be correct. All had to happen over the space of just three days, presents is wrong or different detachments and thus the narrator's implication that We're going to go with the second assumption, improbable in more ways than just that one events literally, then this clone served on would've been 70 by the time of the last battle we're going to write him off and go with our of the 501st material going forward. Does In 19 BBY, the 501st Legion was one of many Detachments of the 501st fought all over the Chancellor wanted them to. Very late in the to Mygeeto to fight along Ki-Adi-Mundi and the Mundi capture a key Mygeetan city, but they had the Republic's secret superlaser project. On power crystal and destroyed all evidence of the Not long afterwards, the main detachment of the Grievous attacked, 501st troopers helped forces on the ground, while other members as reserve fighter pilots. With their help, but the 501st had little time to celebrate. the Republic launched a massive counterattack, of reinforcements that had been held was divided up into smaller units and One detachment of the Legion was sent to for the 327th Star Corps. Another was sent Separatist blockade and assisted in the early accompanied General Kenobi and the 7th Star slain and another Separatist army was routed. On and within just a few days of the Battle of But just before the war came to an end, the 501st The whole 501st Legion was once again placed now Darth Vader, and Commander Appo. As led the Legion in a march on the Jedi Temple. the 501st carried out Operation Knightfall, they encountered. Vader and the clones as well as the remaining members of the Temple the clones secured the Temple, which was partially Temple's automatic recall beacon, summoning any organized decoy squads of clones dressed in Jedi The 501st failed to stop Yoda and Obi-Wan their self-imposed exiles, but they killed as well as others who were found on during Operation Knightfall earned the and in the Great Jedi Purge, the 501st was sent as its troopers possessed more experience After Operation Knightfall, the Republic was of the 501st Legion became stormtroopers, though the 501st had been just one brigade in the an independent entity within the Stormtrooper only. During the transition period, other parts into the 501st Legion, including the Republic commandos and ARC Troopers were organized which was attached to the 501st and During the Reclamation of the Rim, the Empire's the 501st Legion was brought in to crush rebels associated with Jedi survivors. On Kessel, conclave of eight Jedi survivors, while on New a Jedi-led holdout in the Battle of Half-Axe to kill a few more Jedi survivors, only and their troops pursued the Jedi to Kashyyyk, and their Wookiee allies ensued. The 501st in the fighting. He was replaced by Commander 501st stormtroopers were murdered by traitorous By the start of the Dark Times, the 501st Legion efficiency, earning the nickname Vader's Fist. their old Clone Wars-era gear, abandoning their stormtrooper armor. One of their first missions which was threatening violent insurrection 501st assassinated Queen Apailana and her guard, allowing the Empire to install a new puppet set an example to many other would-be rebel to put down similar insurrections many Early rebel cells weren't the 501st's either. Vader's Fist crushed a number of campaign against them officially ended, with rebellion on Mustafar. Like many Dark Times-era deactivated battle droids and switched them however. He had found a whole factory, and he'd protect it. But the 501st punched through this his factory destroyed. This was a close call advanced battle droid line, which, luckily Shortly after that, the 501st crushed an even Clone Rebellion. As the Stormtrooper Corps the Kaminoans felt threatened, and they bred a Once this army was complete, Kamino tried to galactic power. Naturally, the 501st Legion bounty hunter Boba Fett. The Kaminoans put up walk off a Vader's Fisting. The rogue Kaminoan were dismantled. In the years that follow, the opting to recruit natural-born humans or buy 501st remained mostly "pure," but the rest of As the Dark Times went on, the 501st remained but a full decade of little resistance to of the Imperial Military to atrophy. They their complacency ultimately bit them in the ass. 501st had a hard time putting down a prisoner Things would only get worse for the 501st, Later that year, the Alliance to Restore The Empire didn't take the rebellion seriously gained ground, the Imperials realized that the 501st Legion was called and even they had a tough time with it. Two years into the Galactic Civil War, the completed Death Star, and Vader and the 501st The hunt first led the Legion to Polis Massa, Rebels only to find that the plans were on the Vader aboard the Star Destroyer Devastator and where the Death Star plans were transmitted to Princess Leia of Alderaan. The Devastator where the 501st Legion captured the Of course, as we all know, the Death Star plans and the Rebels ended up destroying the Death 501st Legion perished aboard the Death Star when Shocked and outraged that the Rebels were evil the remainder of the 501st regrouped with which had formed a blockade of the Forest six months, destroying numerous Rebel Six months after the Battle of Yavin, Darth Vader his new flagship, the Star Dreadnaught Executor. Imperial forces began a ground assault on the led the assault on Massassi Base, slaughtering assassinating several members of Alliance However, only a small portion of Alliance begin with. The vast majority of the Rebel were scattered throughout the galaxy, as was and the Rebel leaders that escaped Yavin Together with Death Squadron, a fleet group led three years hunting the Rebels, especially Luke Skywalker. In 3 ABY, after many unsuccessful the Rebels' new base was discovered on Hoth. but Death Squadron emerged from hyperspace too shields before the Executor could bomb it to with Blizzard Force, the 501st Legion deployed on captured and destroyed. Roughly half of the numerous important leaders, but the Battle of Empire. Veterans of the 501st would consider After Hoth, the Rebel Alliance seemed on the verge with the Rebel Fleet and fled known space, giving Lord Vader and Emperor Palpatine knew full and growing stronger by the day. Hoping to the Emperor planned a trap in the Endor System, In the Battle of Endor, the entire Rebel Fleet which the Emperor was known to be aboard. to the Forest Moon of Endor, where the external was stationed. The Rebel Fleet was to jump in just out the Death Star and Emperor in one swift move. expected them to do. Death Squadron and hundreds while the 501st Legion, Tempest Force, and on the moon itself. The 501st prevented the and when the Rebel Fleet arrived, it found Death Star. Before the Fleet could escape, more the Emperor's plan went sideways. On the Forest who massacred Tempest Force and the 501st, generator. With the shield down, the Death Star Grand Admirals were killed, and dozens of ships, The Battle of Endor left the Empire in shambles, becoming the New Republic. The remnants of the the Empire fragmented, the Legion's surviving men Fist met its end in the Battle of Endor, but the Five years after Endor, Grand Admiral Thrawn had which had been driven back into the Outer Thrawn reformed the 501st Legion, capitalizing different form. The new 501st was almost many of them nonhumans, as Thrawn recruited The 501st's mission changed as well. It was an Imperial vassal formed by Thrawn out in The reformed 501st Legion essentially sat out the death, the Empire of the Hand remained a secret 501st. By the time the reformation of the 501st Remnant had made peace with the New Republic. action during the Yuuzhan Vong War and survived Remnant became a new Empire. By 137 ABY, the 501st Roan Fel, remaining a unit to be feared over 150 The 501st Legion was one of the most feared the personal death squad of an emotionally you know that the 501st had so much history? Feel