This video has been sponsored by the Bismuth bismuth crystals, and decor items. His entire thebismuthsmith.com. When a lot of people get to help alleviate the symptoms. These antacids aluminum or magnesium hydroxide, or calcium them work is slightly different, but in general enter the stomach, they immediately start reacting And in many cases, this can very quickly get of the common antacid products are relatively though like Alka-Seltzer can also contain a pain I think Pepto-Bismol's the most unique. Just like a base, but it doesn't just use run-of-the-mill subsalicylate. It's chemically similar to aspirin salicylic acid, which is the act of pain reliever also has some of its own unique effects. The exact but it seems to also act on the gastrointestinal diarrhea. All of its effects aside though, is just the fact that it contains bismuth. medications and besides Pepto-Bismol, there are it. Commercially bismuth is mostly used to make and paints. But for most of these applications, and it's often mixed with a whole bunch of other and it contains a relatively high concentration of which makes it possible to separate. Then once its metallic form, and if enough is recovered, it crystals. I actually already tried doing this a small scale. And on top of this, I think I made a five grams of bismuth, which really wasn't enough really liked the idea of growing metal crystals the project. Keep in mind though that this whole means cost-efficient. It's way cheaper and but I'll talk about that later in the video. liquid, but this isn't the best form to extract of bismuth in it is low compared to its cost. make extracting from the liquid a lot slower and is to just go with one of the off brand tablet but when I went to my local pharmacy this time, I both contained the same amount of bismuth, but for only 50% more. I then quickly looked at the anything that could cause too much of an issue, that I had to do, was combine together all these to make things difficult. For some reason every and I had to manually break them all out. It took I was left with a pile of 480 pills. These and I temporarily placed them on the side. of hydrochloric acid, and to do this I added 3L of of the concentrated acid. I did this slowly and but of course some still did happen. This is why to wear proper safety gear especially things I stirred it around until it looked like he was in some of the tablets and immediately both the started reacting with the acid. For the calcium neutralizing some of the hydrochloric acid. And well as carbon dioxide gas, which is coming off the bismuth subsalicylate is getting hydrolyzed bismuth chloride was soluble in water so it just separated out as this white solid, and floated but as more salicylic acid was generated, it getting carried to the top because it was being there, it wasn't letting the gas easily escape. that was kind of a problem, because there wasn't hindsight I probably should have used the larger just had to be careful to not add too many tablets knock down the bubbling and foaming. After the occasionally for a couple hours, and pretty much solution of calcium chloride and bismuth chloride, and pill filler. This would all have to be filtering it like this it could block the filter. lot of the solid junk would settle out at the I saw that it only kind of worked. A lot of the but most of the salicylic acid seemed to just stay would knock it down, but it didn't really do much. issue though, so I just moved on to filtering. but unfortunately it didn't work as well as I had able to make it through. When this happens you can and then add everything back into the filter, initially it did seem to be working okay. However and slower. Even though most of the filler had enough floating around to block the filter. I was look at the label and I didn't notice anything sure I decided to take another look and well, I I didn't see it because I mean it's blatantly gelatinized starch. This is possibly one of the and if I had seen that it was there, I never would last video it was super easy to filter so all the back with time but anyway at this point I was kind with a solution. I did some quick testing, and I filters in a strainer was still slow, but it stuff that passed through also wasn't perfectly unlike my vacuum filter, which I only had one of, to make a few setups like this. This ended up was quite slow, and it took about half a day to it still had some filler in it, so I filtered it bit of celite, which is basically just extremely this, and each time it was done, I dumped it into again another half a day, and this was what I had perfectly clear because a couple of my setups let the whole mess that I started with though, it was acid and filler that was separated out and it kind it is possible to separate the salicylic acid, and deciding, I accidentally knocked the dish on the it all out but anyway before moving on I just want before the solution contains both calcium chloride bunch of extra acid this extra acid was important has a tendency to get hydrolyzed the hydrochloric concentration of it drops too much it'll start by just adding it to a bunch of water and very of bismuth compounds like the oxychloride or the for a long time it goes all the way back as far is that to this day they're still both commonly thing that I started to wonder was where the pink 480 pink pills you'd end up with a pink solution have happened either the dye was destroyed or it to acid I thought that maybe the dye was just sample and I added strong base to it then I shook back so it was just pH sensitive but anyway moving and convert it back to its metallic form. And one step. All I had to do was add aluminum foil. the bismuth ions, and reducing them back to the of the foil, but it wasn't shiny like you might And the reason for this was that the bismuth was light hits a particle it gets scattered in all another particle and gets scattered again most of around like this but with every reflection some very little gets reflected back and it appears the direct reaction between the aluminum and the gas which is both flammable and dangerous, it also bismuth eats away at the foil, but so does the foil to add. It also makes it hard to tell when bismuth left the, acid will keep eating the foil. issue and I just kept adding more foil as a quick this generates a lot of hydrogen gas so it had to it kept adding more and more foil it took longer was because both the bismuth ions and the acid down quite a bit, and I had this completely black tell if any more bismuth is being precipitated, One method to check this is to just take a small is included with this but what's important is is forming and if that's the case it's clearly not some point though when the bismuth concentration working to get around this I had to start taking this way it was a lot more sensitive and I could made I also used my gun to speed things up and what it looked like just a couple minutes yet. This meant that I still had to add more Like all the other times this and eventually I was again I went ahead and tested it like before and some still did form so I had to add more foil I the final test there was still a small amount of to really care about also adding more aluminium there's not enough bismuth or acid to get rid being left over and contaminating the bismuth as I just dipped in some more foil I then let it extra bismuth formed. At this point it was pretty of aluminum. I wanted to make sure that they all overnight. By the next morning it looked pretty that I added was mostly just water, and it passed bottom though, which was where pretty much all of the rate of the filtration did slow down, but it quickly. I just kept transferring it cup by cup, it a few times with distilled water. This was that might still remain, things like calcium washing I let as much water as possible drain out bismuth in the end after the three washings it's more. Also I didn't want to have to wait another a vacuum filtration. So I transferred all of the I stirred it around to really wash the bismuth, I turned on my pump pretty much all of the water in the end my bismuth would not only be drier, but each washing I made sure to thoroughly mix around distilled water. When I was done I left the vacuum up as much as possible. I then transferred it to pack it as tightly as possible. Doing this end I was left with this ball of bismuth. Now to melt it down. To do this though it would have to to start reacting with oxygen in the air. To added it to a vial and he did it with a torch the of all the residual water it then slowly started was all bismuth oxide at this point if I poked and it would have been mostly just the oxide this find that if I continued heating it even more it metal this was what I found in my last video the bismuth but it's not exactly the best process it also required heating things well above the gets well over a thousand C which can cause a lot dangerous and bad for the yield I looked online wasn't able to find anything decent there was one under something like candle wax and I did try that just had to come up with something on my own, and packed it to around the halfway mark with a bunch tight as possible. By doing this I hoped that as the air out of the tube. I also hoped that the in the tube, and prevent the air from coming back because of course I first had to boil off all the too quickly, it could cause a lot of it to start or just spray the contents out. This didn't seem relatively tame. I just kept carefully heating started to form. I was really happy to see this, issue. As more and more water was heated off, the separated from the sides of the tube. This meant between the bismuth and the tube, and the heating metals bismuth has one of the lowest thermal either. I tried fixing this by just jamming things hard and didn't really seem like it was gonna have to deal with, but it honestly wasn't that big things a lot hotter, and that this whole process I kept heating it and it all seemed to be working a nice liquid metal, and I didn't notice any real of yellow stuff started to appear. I think the the entire tube had gotten quite hot, and it a nice protective blanket over things, and the later when everything was pretty much melted, like too much ended up getting oxidized. So I waited for it to cool to room temperature. I was just hit the tube upside down on the table, and the case though, and it was really stuck in It was pretty easy to recover, and I now had this placed on the side. The amount of bismuth that I I had, and it was now time to do the rest. Just and I slowly and carefully heated it, to get separated from the walls, but this time it took a shrunk down, it kind of slumped to the side, and stayed upright, which made the heat transfer even poking around at it, but I didn't really bother. was still working so I didn't really see a point have this wider top part, which might have been to leave it. When it was almost done though, I did little bit. After that I kept heating it for a few temperature. Like before there was no chance so I had to break it. I knocked off all the other of crude bismuth. This was everything that I from a few tests that I did. In total I was able that was in all the tablets. This represents a it's a lot better than I did the last time. In of only 22%. But anyway now that I had the metal to clean it up a bit. This would normally but I wanted to show you guys what was happening, it like this is that as it's heated, the glass up a metal tray. I then started heating it with too much about oxidation here. This was because it didn't have nearly as much contact with air. It to air, but it's really not a big problem. As I looked pretty good. But then it was right around part this large piece stopped melting, except for was a really bad sign, especially when some of it melt it enough in the last step, and a lot of it, to poke around at it, and immediately it crumbled the bismuth all quickly oxidized, and turned but at this point, I didn't really have an option. so I had to try converting it back to the metal. it up like crazy, and breaking it down. This is of the sheer temperature, it also produces a I don't at all recommend anyone trying this, like it even started boiling, but I'm not sure if else producing gas. But anyway all the oxide did I'm not really sure what this was, but it was off. This was pretty easy to do, and while it was bismuth. And at first everything that came out a little bit too hard. A small piece of slag fell but it was already stuck. I'd have to deal cool down. This was the beaker that I'd just that was left behind. You can also see that the which definitely wasn't safe. But anyway back and I easily removed it from the watch glass. When were all the different colors, which was pretty thin film of bismuth oxide and depending on way that light is reflected this phenomenon is it's the same reason why a small amount of oil can of water. But anyway to make crystals, I had to apart. Bismuth is a relatively brittle metal, so I than I thought. To break the rest of it I just also helped crush all the slag and oxide that to do another cleaning step, but this separated making crystals. Now for this part, when it comes just doing it with this little bismuth. I now because that whole cleaning process, caused me getting anything to grow at all even bad crystals, attempt I put them all into a glass vial that I people would melt the bismuth wait for it to cool, down. However in my case, the volume was just way work. As it cooled most of this would probably figured my only hope, would be to wait a bit, and And left inside would ideally be some crystals, So with the heat maxed out on my hot plate, it all I skimmed the top of it, and they removed some measure the temperature of this, so when it just the hot plate. I occasionally checked on it as it When they started happening I watched it closely I dumped everything out. What was kind of cool and as it slowly reacted to build that film of wasn't cool though was when I looked in my far as I could tell nothing had crystallized, tried peeling off the bismuth but it was still It was kind of still liquidy at that point, but it small amount of bismuth from the junk that didn't this time I just used pliers, and I broke it into skimmed the top and waited for it to cool. but I wanted to wait a bit longer, so that more major issue, and I think things were just cooling it has to cool relatively, slowly but there just little to no chance that anything decent formed something else. The bottom part of the vial was contact with the hot plate. And because of this, from the top, and have a crystal grow to the and I squished it onto the end of a steel wire. liquid. The only issue now though was that I had I really had no way to monitor it, and I ended to open it up I got my pliers, and I smashed the liquid bismuth at the bottom, but unfortunately going to have to try things a bit differently, temperature control. From all the liquid bismuth I liked. It all ended up staying this really nice water. I decided to keep this one, but everything run my brother had an idea to use a heating mantle insulation. This way once the heating was turned the first big piece had melted, I added all of the of the slag, Suddenly though my heating mantle So I had to quickly swap it for a new one, and they felt that it was hot enough, I turned off to harden, and to slowly creep towards the center. have formed, I poured off the liquid. The stuff and it was pretty easy to get out. Unfortunately thought that it was a lot more promising than and I started heating it again. When it all melted and then I turned off the heating. I originally and then to pour off the liquid. However at different. I wanted to see if it were possible to it in though, I felt something hard just below the apparently seemed, like something more interesting and waited a bit longer, and I occasionally tapped With all the insulation and with this heating temperature decreased much more slowly. this not it also made it much more likely, to actually be stop, and I ended up just waiting until there center. I took away the mantle and poured it out, There were actually some crystals that had but honestly also really surprised that it worked. against the table. From the bottom I saw these it looked like it was blocked by this middle I used my pliers, and I pulled it out. and it made it much easier to see ,the typical of bismuth crystals. The piece that I but I thought that it still really looked So what I had now were these two really water droplet, that I accidentally made. There I had already successfully made crystals I wanted might be interesting to try to mold it and to then owning ones that are used were just plain brand-name one actually had some texture it also been amazing to get onto the bismuth but I didn't make the mold I just used some quick drying do was mix it with water stuff it into a measuring hour later it was quite hard and to get the pill because I'll be pouring hot metal into it in an oven for about an hour then when at least it I just melted the rest of the bismuth in a there was clearly still some water left and because of this it ended up solidifying with to just fix with the torch when it had cooled terrible this was all because of the water though and it was probably worth trying again so I in and this time there wasn't any bubbling the definitely way better than before as I expected but the general shape was actually pretty I honestly didn't really know exactly where it than I expected. I honestly didn't think that I I was really happy, even if they were just these despite having a lot of fun working on this, it All of the Pepto cost me around $120, and on top work. It would have completely defeated the entire interest was getting bismuth I would have just find places that sell it and then the future if I go what's also possible is just to directly buy this or like this one all of these were made by this video but even though he's figured out large crystals that's not the only thing that he with high detailing quality and he makes a huge just a small sample of some of the ones that I his website what I think is really cool though is and its thickness and this way he's able to make before these different colors are due to something I think that his products are an interesting blend bismuth is rarer than silver which definitely adds but he's also able to make some with solid colors can have and I also really like the Bears that it make some blue ones for me so just for this video and because they're all handmade they're all gonna right now all of these items are being sold on his time just for this video he's made a deal for of this all of the decor items have free shipping individual items but for wholesale opportunities page this page can be easily found by just going usual a big things goes out to all my supporters videos at least 24 hours before I post them to message me and if you support me with $5 or more