Today, I will be playing what some people are of the DLC: Luigi, Teddy Buggy, GLA Tires, and we have someone with a name I can't read playing so it seems like JPGiviner has had quite the that this combo is very good. So JPGiviner made exact same stats as Waluigi Wiggler except that when you get hit, you can stay invincible for you get hit, you can't get hit for a little longest out of any of the combos that simulate Waluigi Wiggler was definitely the best or at so this has similar stats, but because of the argue this is better, or actually it just okay, well, that's one way to kind of dodge I think the blooper did that to me. Uh-oh, I'm just gonna tank that red shell. I'm gonna go Great. We have a Yoshi Inkstriker, we have to to avoid this. [gasps] Oh, oh it cracked on that was crazy. Okay, we're gonna stay wide and it didn't hit, it didn't hit. These have Okay, I have to burn all these mushrooms because that wasn't--or did it hit a car? There's Oh, someone did the shortcut and Well, I played like an absolute idiot that so SNES Mario Circuit 3 is a very good bagging today because I'm gonna be testing out this it has been advertised to be, which means I need which means I will just be at the front. I'm--guys, guys, I want the one day I want you I just want to test out this invincibility stat, and see if I can just get hit by items again and invincible for a long time. Oh, and by the way, in the game, and I will explain why in the future combo in the game is. Someone hit me, hit me! we're gonna take this shortcut right here. I and look at that, I'm in first. This track Okay, it wasn't coming for me. Unfortunate. All right, I have one mushroom. I don't think I try to save it for the shortcut coming up here. Okay, I'm still saving this, it's Oh, that banana was in a deadly position. Okay, so I think that's what I'm gonna find out. I'm gonna the invincibility stat to come into play. However, Wiggler, so there's no reason to use Waluigi really nice moment where I dodge a lot of items. I'm just gonna wait here. Like, I'm on the the best strategy in the game, of course. So, Get some coins, and just try to get every coin you're playing Cheese Land. Uh, I'm really I'm probably not gonna get first. I might have based on the--oh, no, no, I used that by accident. Are you kidding me? Whatever, [Music] You always want to jump over that cheese Okay, let's just use it. Let's go here. Please don't pass--Why is everyone right Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's going, baby. [laughs] All right, we're in first happened. It's Cheese Land, but that was but I used my shock by accident and I sorry, so I had to stop talking to focus there. Okay, so defense items would be cool. And I'm gonna do this never-before-seen shortcut the shock saved me. I'm getting so lucky today. and it's totally fine because we have an item set make sure I get the double box. Hope no one Looks like second place isn't doing anything, so Land race I have ever had. Instant bullet, never lot during the Waluigi Wiggler meta, and on top of I just thought it was ugly. So, I never used that I think about it. So, uh, I don't know how Road. So here we will be testing it out, testing Nice. I'm falling off. Just kidding. Okay, we're [Music] Wow, I keep getting the red shell to abuse some invincibility frames if but it just never happens. The red shell is Okay, so it's enough mini-turbo stats do my little mini-turbo trick that I enjoy I don't care if something barely helps, I just All right, cool. The handling, the mini-turbo, get comboed here. Red shells, please, someone multiple red shells. More. Well, they came Wow, I wanted that the whole time, for some reason, they tossed the red You know, I'm gonna be surprised if my even once this entire session because it's I'll save this mushroom for the very end. I'm I think I hit someone. Okay, blue shell. I'm going As it turns out, you can still get Mario Karted just gonna race seriously now. I'm gonna forget think probably what's been happening is I've just and then I said it, and then the universe just else. That's cool. See if I can get in front of Please don't have an attack item. Okay, If they whipped out a trail item, I probably and sucks for them. No one near me. Wow, I have a items trying to get a better item. Why did I item box. I think this is what happens when you absolutely turns off for a sec. I'm so scared of double defense or a super horn. [Music] My mini it almost knocked me off! I'm not going for all right. Those carts, spin boosting in general, Like sure, it gives you a little bit of speed when really worth it? Because it sends you so far away out in your favor and you would like to brake, it decided to send you, that is where you are Wow, I have a giant breakaway, this is crazy. And this is not a short track. I'm surprised, like, be getting pretty good items. I'm just getting We're gonna do this, yeah, and I have so many about the timing of that banana. Can someone Like, does it have to do with Luigi's Mansion? then I actually get a speed boost on it using and then see if they believe me when I say, like, and they're like, &quot;Really?&quot; And I'm Okay, so I'm gonna--Oh, I got the invincibility! The invincibility! Did you I think that was part of the threshold of, like, this combo did not get hit because it is busted. I have one more mini turbo stat than Waluigi before DLC Wave 4, Waluigi Wiggler had the most get. But now that number is higher, and I have the exactly that number is, but it is just one higher I'm gonna use this because I want to chain all of Okay, I can't. I might have been able to get the just gonna go for this shortcut here instead. that sucks. I had some pretty good items. [Music] Oh-- I'm gonna get away from what was so scary. And I'm gonna get in front here so I does first place have invincibility? invincibility is pretty good. I'm gonna sure I can get both of these off-- Oh, good All right, that was a very good play. I can't get shortcut with one mushroom. I've literally never then, like, do that or something. I was aiming and I can dodge the red shell. And you will never Fourth place. Okay, okay, I'm glad I could there, just one time out of how many races, but it and this Luigi in the pipe frame, honestly, I thought it was a CPU. I was like, &quot;Who would never see anyone use the pipe frame. It is, like, Okay, I'm gonna try and focus a bit more. I've is a combo I never use, and there's a lot to say I noticed on Twisted Mansion, I was busy talking, though I had a mushroom because I didn't realize So let's play more seriously this time. Make sure I get these coins. Oh, do not Oh, more red shells, okay. So I don't want to hit the cars. I don't know exactly how that it's probably more likely to hit, and I can That's actually-- I've never thought about that. because you know the red shell takes that path. So but they definitely don't go out that's for sure. So that's actually really drop bananas in the middle of Okay, you have-- you have a banana, but I would Okay, they got it out in time, but Oh, sorry, that was involuntary. [Music] I should have saved it for the because now I'm just in front of first place dodge a blue shell. And I think this ending cut is Should win this one unless they have two good track to start in first because it's lower chance of a blue shell showing up, so I and there's items coming up right here. Wow, for everybody else. And we're gonna make sure I I can grab this double item box. More coins. All being able to grab all the coins at about seven percent faster than everyone. hit the red shell. Okay, well, I lost but yeah, you go like seven percent, almost and that is a huge deal. If it doesn't feel like All right, so no one's near me. Probably don't have an invincibility stat like All right, so we're gonna keep these items. I thinking maybe toss the green shell back to dodge but I remember, oh hey, that's what I Oh, nice! Okay, it is over. I am good. I'm in first. I don't think anyone Like I said, huge advantage starting in first on of a bagging track, which is good because I hope their items, and that gives me a chance to show look at that! Okay, we're already getting hit. but when I do, I would love for someone to I'm gonna get rid of my mini turbo there just to the back on this track just because it's So I'm just bagging anyway. I didn't think I okay, I have a lot of mushrooms. Here's what just 'cause I'm just fooling around here. don't think I have shown in any video yet. It goes that's not it. Like this, yeah, that is such a Okay, get my coins up. Oh, I'm in first. mushrooms in first. This could not be any it's gonna be hard to beat this because the best let's--oh no, what the heck? That was Okay. All right, that's all I have Water Park is one track where I would rather have This is great. No one picked Water Park. Oh can I--okay, couldn't get a purple mini-turbo. than this. I really prefer the mini-turbo stat balance between them, I don't even like it that Give me as much as you can get. And that's why I first started trying to get good at this game. But with, like, the weight stat as well, so it's No! Random green shell. Okay, we're gonna use and this time we got our purple mini-turbo. Brake drift, okay, good. Got some items. first has a giant lead. Okay, Oh, don't hit me, don't hit me. I'm all the way That was the worst motion glider I've done really any shortcut on this track, so I'm just out. I didn't even press L after. I hate that so we are in fourth place on Water Park. Nothing Uh, person in front of me has a red. Hopefully, all right. This is why I didn't want Water me. People are spacing out the way they hit I'm not even at 12,000 anymore. This this race. I'm pretty good at Sunshine shell. [evil laugh] sneaky. Oh, did they not So I had to take some weird lines and I missed a coin looking backwards. It's try and dodge items that, uh, can be dodged fire flower. Oooh, I got two defense They're right there with a red Oh, a mushroom. What? That was worth Oh, come on, hit them. Please. No. I think I and that was really bad. But wow, this is great. I love when--when everything that a red shell or a red Yoshi I just What do we got? We got a coin and a green shell. If I had just the green shell, I would have tossed hit right there, but, uh, I would have to burn Let's burn this here, look for a super horn. Airport. If you ever want to get a double it's pretty much--if you're front-running, double box you're getting is this one right single boxes for the rest of the race. Oh no, Oh, what? What? How did I not get hit Is that related to the invincibility stat? That green shell--what? Okay, good thing I didn't messed up the ending. Oh no. Okay, well, I mean, for my invincibility frames. That was actually I'm gonna save this for the short--oh no, the invincibility! Oh wow. Okay, all right, was--it was so long before that shock came, Oh, what? Does that fireball ended right before paying off. Oh, couldn't get the double item playing aggressive here. [laughs] Wow, animecat