Vsauce! Kevin here, and I'm an IDIOT. I am the Duke of the dull and dim-witted. I am breathtakingly brainless. I am fabulously fat-headed, disastrously doltish, I've spent 10 years making hundreds of videos I've highlighted the achievements of some I've learned a lot along the way, and maybe But for the last few weeks I've been pursuing well. The fact is -- I hope this video actually an idiot is the difference between life and Here's how. Hold on. I gotta get this BBQ sauce off my face. It's like literally burning my skin. Okay hang on. Oh this is for a child. Okay I am going to smell like BBQ sauce for for you. Okay here's how. In 1942, psychologist a problem-solving test using water and differently sized jars. The goal is to fill and empty those jars with volume. You've got an unlimited supply of water, In Problem #1, Jar A holds 29 ounces and Jar The goal is to measure 20 ounces. So, you'd fill the 29 ounce jar and use - 3 - 3 = 20), leaving you with 20 ounces. This is not a paradox. Problem #2 adds a third jar. This time, Jar A is 21oz, Jar B is 127oz, We have to get 100oz, and that's also pretty The third problem is a little bit trickier, A holds 14oz, Jar B holds 163oz, and Jar C Your goal is to get 99oz. You can fill the 163, then pour two 25's Once you're locked in to the successful Fill the biggest jar and use the other two the right amount. Got it. Alright, one more: Jar A holds 23oz, Jar B holds 49oz, Jar C We need 20oz. So, 49 - 23 - 3 - 3 = 20. Right? Wr... well, yes, that's actually right. But it's not the most efficient solution. We could just fill Jar A with 23 ounces and 20 ounces that we need. This time, we don't need this largest jar Learning an algorithm to solve these problems Luchins found that after giving 6 problems then taking away different amounts using Jars in to using all three jars to solve each problem. They didn't even see the simpler solution. The final problem, 28, 76, and 3, with a goal jars, 28 minus 3 -- you can't even use the Many of the subjects tried to apply their was impossible. IMPOSSIBLE. They'd gained too much knowledge. They were too experienced. They'd become so smart that they got stupid. Welcome to the Einstellung Effect. "Einstellung" is a German word that roughly It describes the overall method and frame When Luchins conducted his experiment, he two possible solutions as their very first Most of them instantly recognized the simpler the Big Jar method of thinking about the problem. It wasn't that Group B was smarter, it was them dumber. Oh -- and some of the people who were shown final problem was impossible? They got mad. They got really really mad. In his paper "Mechanization in Problem Solving," by the blindness and stupidity he showed while and feels shame at having been blinded to action, of intelligent procedures." Basically, some were upset that they felt on the experiment itself. In a footnote, Luchins explains: "Instead of these subjects remarked heatedly that the They were embarrassed because they felt stupid too smart. They'd have been smarter if they were stupider. It's a vicious cycle. The Einstellung Effect is a serious cognitive experiment used eye-tracking software to show a simple solution after a specific series it. Their brains wouldn't let them see it. Kinda like how you can't see that my face This is actually a concave photo of my face. As you can see when I turn it, this is not But when seen straight-on fills in that hollow shape and projects it outward because it's programmed to see faces Grand Illusions has a hollow-face Einstein visual systems are in favor of seeing faces Your brain won't allow you to see the hollow its shortcut supersedes reality. It's why the phrase, "I can't unsee exists in the first place. Here's a different example. There's an old riddle about a plane crashing, or a Starship Enterprise, border and being asked Your brain gets so wrapped up in processing could be relevant in determining how to deal of people died in the crash, and all the other it takes a minute to realize that survivors The Einstellung Effect has created a short-term scenario into a ridiculous brain teaser. Sometimes it's just... better to know a In a 1999 paper called "The Recognition a psychological experiment asking which of Diego or San Antonio. A group of Germans answered correctly more The Americans likely considered the populations the cities were growing, and a ton of other The Germans? Well, more of them had heard of San Diego, they figured the more famous city was bigger. The end. That's it. The "less is more effect" actually made And we've just recently figured out that Wrong! We've actually known about this problem In 1620, Francis Bacon wrote in Novum Organum once adopted an opinion (either as being the itself) draws all things else to support and Bacon didn't know the cognitive science idea right: for efficiency's sake, your on the knowledge it currently possesses. It's why I can't make this egg stand up. Come on, egg. Work with me here. Please stand. The task here is to balance this egg on one And uh it's not really working out for me In Girolamo Benzoni's 1565 "History of Columbus challenged a group of noble Spaniards: you, that you will not make this egg stand all.&quot; I don't know why he had to be naked that's They tried and failed, just like I've been And then Columbus just kinda smashed the egg He wasn't trapped by Einstellung. And neither was Alexander the Great, who solved century BC. The knot was so complex and so intricate, this is a pillowcase, that anyone who could of Phrygia. He just cut it in half with his sword... something Kind of like the way Indiana Jones was badly just shot him with his gun. Everyone has understood this seemingly forever, is deeply rooted in Asian philosophies. In Zen Buddhism, the term "shoshin" refers of openness and eliminating the constraints Zen and Daoist meditators try to achieve the free from attachments and thoughts. In Japanese martial arts, zanshin is total know or think you know, but letting every simple. But this isn't just about illusions, ancient Understanding the impact of Einstellung can In the 1970s, a cardiologist named Lee Goldman that taking an ECG reading and answering three was actually having a heart attack. When this shortcut decision tree was implemented were incredible. It beat the old diagnosis method by 70%, and the hospital found that doctors diagnosed the most serious cases correctly and dirty method was right over 95% of the Depending on a well-educated, professional actually made things worse. People died because we were too smart. We are obsessed with being smart and knowing It's why I'm so curious about science why this channel exists. And look, it's important to know stuff and And it's important to have a 'mechanized' Luchins said, "Mechanized responses have They possess the advantages of releasing one recurring everyday situations. They equip one with precise, ready, and speedy and they free the mind so that it can more YEAH. But he then went on to say... "... when applied but becomes a procrustean bed to which instead of the individual mastering the habit, the habit masters the is indeed a dangerous thing." Intelligence, experience, and knowledge are takes away your freedom to think differently. Your brain is the greatest computer ever invented... and limit your potential. We all want to get smarter, become more creative, in everything from the video games we play There's so much pressure to be smart -- and Sometimes you just... gotta get stupid. And as always, thanks for watching.