If you've ever heard of anyone talking about a built like a tank&quot;. You know what? They're car is designed, with its absolutely massive it is quite tank-like. But what a Volvo like a tank is go off-road, come off the it sees fit. This XC70 is much more close to Welcome to the Volvo XC70, which is essentially a raised up off the ground with some extra cladding It's designed to go cross-country, hence the Because they've put this car on stilts, what it rocks and bits and things when you're this car on the road is incredibly comfortable. doing its job - it's got so much room to work UK roads have to offer. Now in addition to that, ridiculously plush seats. It's pretty much a cliche how comfortable they are, but there's a reason car industry that are as padded and arm-chair-like is just a lesson in Swedish minimalism and simple it cossets you, it removes you from the external noise and relaxing driving manner. The heavy, the gearbox is easy to use. I was having explain the 74 millimetre ride height increase - This is about 78 millimetres - so if you can imagine than the standard V70 then it'll give you an idea Cheers. Most of the cars sold in Europe and D5 so it's the top of the line diesel with 215 160 horsepower, then you had the D4 somewhere you put your foot down and the next thing you know that you shouldn't be doing. So you do have to be hot hatch territory, but of course it doesn't feel of speed you're doing until you look down at the from 2007 through 'till 2016. So they were on the it halfway through in 2012. They changed the you've got the built-in Sensus infotainment system The Sensus infotainment system - it's nice to use, have to control it on the center console rather and it's not touch screen, which is fine by me. and everything seems to be controlled through there's no light on the button itself it just all the other climate control and settings and is a Haldex system - what the four wheel drive wheel drive, when it detects that it needs it, if it will engage the rear wheels as well and give available with Hill Descent Control, which I've feature, so it'll help you get down a hill without that some of the XC70 models were front-wheel models which were eco-minded. Driving around you obviously have to be careful of the length the visibility is really good because you've got pillars at the end so it's really not too bad. you might be considering doing with it is towing. be pleased to hear that it's absolutely brilliant caravan, with the D5 version the torque is so about the design of this car is it kind of blends sophisticated people. You could park this twice, but at the same time you could park it it would be fine, so it's just got that very chunky Hi, if you're enjoying this video please comment below and let me know what you think. So what's it like to drive on twisty roads? Well obviously it's not a driver's car, just doing that thing where it's separating me you're not going to get any feedback or anything, interested in that. Of course with it being got a five-star Euro NCAP rating as you'd incredibly tough side impact protection in the sorts of fancy kit on it. A particular favourite of close it and open it with a button press. You've leather and sat nav and lots of nice things like quite diesel-y, when it's getting up to 3000 rpm, it sounds quite nice actually, it's got this quite nice thrum that you get from is not enough for you, then they did do a T6 kind of mental for this car to be honest - I'm not the option was there if you need it! I do like this enjoying is the fact that when I can you hear that? [creaking noises] Very creaky. On the motorway relaxing to just soak up the miles, you could getting about 35 average - that's with all different It's officially 53 MPG but I'm sure you could get the performance and the weight of this car. got these two cup holders, a pretty big cubby and then some quite small door pockets. But that's interesting bits of storage that I can see. they are solidly built cars and they're quite go wrong expect larger bills because it is a They can do massive miles, and in that traditional It's now time to find out what it's like in have my colleague Backseat JJ. Yeah no worries What's it like back there mate? It's good back here, there is plenty of room - it's set for JJ in we're sat behind each other fine, I've got head Oh mate can I have some of that? Cheers man. Back here, creature comforts - a little light You've also got ventilation coming from some small tiny pockets on the doors, built into it, you can fold them out which flat 40-20-40, and there's no load lip so it's you need back there. You've got this dog guard that You can pull out the parcel shelf all the way to the There's a third 12-volt socket in the back Oh you finished? Oh okay, uh, yeah all right cheers So that's the Volvo XC70 it's a practical, reliable, robust, comfortable car that you could load of stuff in the back and you could it, so there's a lot to like about this car. One Legacy / Legacy Outback, I did a review on Yeah, just thank you very much for watching