[MUSIC PLAYING] That looks nice, Monique. You like that one? No. I am very, very particular. You're picky. They call me &quot;Bougetta&quot; I'm a little just over the top. I like everything just Look at this one. JOY: This is pretty. This is so pretty. That's a lot going on. That's why I love it. Hello, ladies. I'm looking for Monique. Hi. I'm Mindy. So who'd you bring I have my mother, Joy, and MINDY: Hi, Tiffany. How Are you? JOY: Nice to meet you too. Do you have any idea of what Yes, absolutely. It's a non-negotiable, I love her silhouettes. I love the mermaid style. I love a long train. And I love off the shoulder. So it's actually really great because she's a brand and, we're actually having a So I'm really, really this collection with you. Well, Monique doesn't She's very tunnel this is all I want. But if she sees something she might-- she might not. I envision for her to It needs to be a little sexy. OK. How do you feel I wouldn't-- no. [LAUGHS] Usually Usually the bride wants and the mom doesn't, so My vision and are two different things. My son does want to something with maybe a split. She doesn't want a split. But a split isn't hoochie. A split can be very My fiance's name is We actually met I love that he's a man of and grew a spiritual bond before talking or courting. So I know this is a and our wedding is going so I am not looking forward [LAUGHS] So when is the wedding? MONIQUE: Three months. Yes. Yes. OK. Pressure. Yeah, that's a little Not-- not impossible. You are at Kleinfeld. Do we have a price point Anywhere from Perfect. So Monique, you're going You ladies are going to go ahead Let's do it. I have some dresses for you. Yay. So take a look. So I enlisted the help of Randy. He is with us via video chat. MONIQUE: Awesome. And all of these so we're off to a good But we did bring a few So this one right here, a This one is a V-neck just and see how you feel about that. These three are strapless. Is there any one in kind of jumping out at you [MUSIC PLAYING] Mindy, don't hate me. Uh-oh. I don't like any of them. Really? Yeah. Huh. It is very rare that I from a particular designer and she does not Why? So this one, I'm not in This one, I don't the heaviness of the getting married in July. So it's a little heavy. It is a heavy gown. This one too, I'm not a The V. OK. I want sexy, but not hoochie. They're are two I do love the bling on here So she can customize it a We can make it like and give you an off so it gives you a little MONIQUE: I'm open to that. Try it. I mean, the worst thing is you right? Right. OK. It checks off not all. But I'm thinking if I I can at least see the vision What do we think? Um-- You're not-- I can You're not a fan. I think it's the V that's I can't envision But I love the shape. I love the bottom. I love the bling. I think just the upper half. I don't want to show It doesn't check I don't want to get their is a dress I'm going to pick. What about either of these? Because these are going to that we could customize - I could try that one. MONIQUE: Yeah. Let's do it. I really don't want that she's not but I'm still trying to to move forward from here. Wow, this is beautiful. Yeah. Yeah. MINDY: Do you want to MONIQUE: Yeah, let's I'm not feeling much of but my family is to try something on so they Oh my god. All right, ladies-- JOY: I love it. --dress number one. That's pretty, Mo. Oh. And we have a We've got Randy. Randy. Hello, beautiful ladies. Hi, Randy. There's Monique. How are you? Good. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. You look beautiful. Thank you. I love the mermaid style. I think I'm not really going on up here in this area. What is it that you I can't really explain. I can't really explain what-- I just don't love it. I don't think it's enough I think that's what's So the dress that was a little bit blingier. You tried that one on? MONIQUE: I did. Well, we didn't see it. I have to catch on what the last few We can imagine. MINDY: Oh yeah? So-- Then she's saying no, no. No. JOY: I think to see what I'm saying and how picky she is. Randy, my family Bougetta. What does that mean? Very over the top. Don't ask me how I don't know. B-O-U-G-I-ETTA. I don't know. OK, so why don't we go and let's see what OK. I need to get out of this dress Come with me down this way. Monique came in really, really so I really want to possible with Pantora before Too much, yeah? Too much ruffle. No ruffles. Don't worry. We'll get there. I don't love the top. I know for certain but I think I stumped Mindy. I'm not seeing any I'm not seeing anything There's not one dress that We have gone through Let's visit some new designers. OK. My heart's crushed a little wanted to find a see what else is in store. MINDY: Can I come in? OK. So I've got some Do either of these There's nothing that that I like. That first dress that we tried imagine that the Imagine that we add a beautiful Is there anything about No. MINDY: Monique-- I just cannot picture it. OK, OK. I hear you, but I OK. I can work with that. That is the closest I'm going to go grab the dress. Give me a second. MONIQUE: OK. Oh gosh, I'm so sleepy. We're sitting here. We're waiting, I knew it wasn't going I knew that. But not this long. [MUSIC PLAYING] Oh. MINDY: Long time no see. We are in a gown. So we're back in guys didn't see because this We kind of makeshifted But you need a My shoulders are out. You don't want it-- OK. You don't want it. Did you add the sleeves, We added the sleeves-- one arm with a thin strap. Yeah, I like the thicker. I like the thicker as well. The thinner one looks strap kind of fell off. JOY: I agree with you, Randy. And the thicker Yeah. Monique, tell me I love-- I mean, I actually love the dress. Oh. MINDY: Do you want to see it Sure. Of course. This dress checks I love, love, love I love how nice the I love the shape of the dress, Oh, that is pretty. Oh, now I'm going Oh yeah, Monique. Oh, don't do that-- because Yeah, Randy, there's some I'm tearing up, Randy. You can't see me. MINDY: Everyone's tearing up. The entire group is. JOY: I love it. MINDY: I don't want to mess Nikki got tears coming Yeah, I think it Like, you're in a you're wearing and seeing everything together. It was beautiful. Can I talk about how this Is this the first one you-- So this was the first on that we did not come out in. Wait a minute. So we just spent four hours, [LAUGHTER] It's definitely My mom bought her dress so I think for her it would her daughter's dress here. But I've shopped twice Good luck to me. Imagine you walking in JESSICA: I grew up a dance studio on Long Island. So dealing with so many dramatic and feathers, I've that I just feel my expectations anymore. I'm kind of stressed. I'm looking for Jessica. Hi. Hi, how are you? It's me. Nice to meet you. I can't take it. This is going to be - Thank you so much. I'm Marybeth, her mom. - Nice to meet you. I'm her sister. Nice to meet you. So is this your No, this is not my OK. So what happened the first Did you guys learn anything? Has there been a I learned that I'm very picky. OK. I will tell you, I don't You like what you like. You don't like what But hopefully I find - OK. Yeah, definitely. Why do you think you're picky? Like, what happened? There's so many things and I just don't think I OK. So I am looking for something Either like a plunge front Nothing strapless, Maybe a little And I'm getting married over That's super important to me. So it feels like a long Instantly, I'm like, OK. What's the price point that Between $3,000 and $4,000. OK. What do you guys see her in? Bigger than Cinderella. Like pull her up on a horse and take everyone's breath away. Diamonds, sparkly. All that. AMBER: How tall are you? I'm 4'11&quot;. Do you want a ball gown? No. AMBER: I didn't think so. I felt it, like, coming If I put that ball gown like a child going to prom. OK, so maybe we'll try on one. JESSICA: OK. Or 5. Or 5? No, we have to try on the We will, yes. But I want to see something JESSICA: There was one. There was one that I'm willing to try it on. AMBER: OK. Do you remember Was it the one in the window? JESSICA: I think The one in the The one-- what was in Oh, it's beautiful. Oh, here, let me help you. It's heavier than me. I know. It's taller than you for sure. OK, this is beautiful. She's like, if I'm Yeah. This is this is a huge if. OK. Don't get it twisted. I feel like a lot of people gown, a sick dress. And it's honestly-- I'm like, the wedding or how much I care or how other people I just want to enjoy the AMBER: I've got flowers and and it's got the sexy plunge. Hopefully it hits OK. OK, Jessica. All right. I have some good Is there anything that or is it like, I don't know. Everything to This one's nice. OK. It's probably Jessica than to please her. Mom, imagine your 4 foot I can, actually. JAMIE: Oh my goodness. It's stunning. She's stubborn, but we're into something that we imagined I always imagined her Cinderella, all that. So that's what I'm - Me too. We love that look. The bigger-- the bigger the Yeah, but she-- this is and the big beads-- Beautiful. Just beautiful. I know, but it's her wedding. Oh, boy. JAMIE: It's not our wedding. Yeah, that ball gown that they I took it to the said this is not happening. I'm not putting this dress on. I just feel like I'm going to with a tiara. AMBER: No tiaras. I think I'm going to have them on the same page as me. So let's start with this one. This one is brand new. This one's by Yumi Katsura. JESSICA: OK. So the only thing is it has a Is this strap too thick JESSICA: No, but I'll try it. AMBER: OK, good. The only thing I don't like OK. JESSICA: Right. That's like, easy fix. JESSICA: OK. I think this appointment challenging only going into this appointment If you are defeated then it makes it to like a dress throughout It's like, silvery. I'm a very gold person. This reminds me of OK, got it. OK, let's keep going. So, thin strap, 3D flowers. Low front, low back. Fit and flare. AMBER: And then it's and it's all lined in sparkle. What do you think? Yeah, I'll try it. Really, it checks all so let's see how Jessica Look how long you look. JESSICA: Yeah. How do you feel? It's-- You're allowed to like it. Look. JESSICA: Things are happening. AMBER: She's like, We actually, like, I kind of like it. Kind of. I like the buttons. The buttons are pretty. Let's show them. I am loving what feel like there is something factor that I could have. Oh my gosh. Maybe they can tell missing that I just don't see. JAMIE: Wow. MARYBETH: Wow, Jessica, Look at the train. Magnificent. Love it. Oh my gosh. Love it. JAMIE: And it's that It is. JESSICA: Yeah, you love. But do you love the I do, kind of. I like the-- you know. MARYBETH: Long train? MARYBETH: Is it heavy? It's a little heavy. That's one of the things is the weight of the dress. AMBER: OK. I like this dress. I don't love it. I love it. If you couldn't already [LAUGHS] I'm in my first dress, They're going to love me in and I don't think they here of something more than they need to love. 37 years ago, I and I put my dress immediately that was my gown. I put that third dress That was it? MARYBETH: Yeah. AMBER: I love that's When you put your gown it just-- that's it. For her, it would to buy her daughter's so hopefully I have the JAMIE: It's bringing MARYBETH: It's just It is a big deal, and When you put your dress on, Right. It's like a fiance, you know? Throw the checklist when they make you feel good. That's how you know. AMBER: OK. All right, let's Let's try another one. Oh my god, that Yeah, I know. AMBER: Wait, let me recap. Deep plunge. Deep back. Lightweight train, And most importantly, I'm a little stumped, I'm not usually stumped. These poor women But it's not even so that Jessica wants, it's how and the weight of the gown. Wedding dresses are don't know if I can combine now. Feel this dress. This is super light. OK. I think she'll like this one. What do you think? Look, I'm like second - I know. Listen, Amber, it [KNOCKS] AMBER: Jessica? Hello. We have dresses. Oh my god. Are you ready? And we're really So first option OK. It's similar to the one that Next is Signore with And then check out this back-- low back, illusion buttons. AMBER: OK, OK. Last one is our favorite. This one, Lazaro. JESSICA: OK. Really, really lightweight. Probably the Glitter underneath with I'm trying to read your Do you like it or no? I don't. AMBER: No? MARISSA: Oh no. You know why? MARISSA: Why? I don't like the sparkle. You feel like it's too much? I feel like What I want is too much. I don't want to you know what I mean? It's just me. I just feel like Let's put this on. OK. I feel like I hit the point and if I were to put I would still not like them. - Do you like it? No? What is this? It's like, low on the side. Like, I wish it was-- It could be. You don't have to can't really wear underwear when No? That's OK. Let it out. I'm stressing. I'm all over. I'm-- I don't know what I want. I thought I did. I don't. Jessica-- JESSICA: Mm-hmm? AMBER: You're so pretty. You don't need all of this I think you're right. You literally could all clean, sexy, and just like be so striking you know? I don't think you I agree with Amber. I think I need to I need to have a break up talk and figure it out. We're going to go home. We're going to think about this - OK. - OK. - Hi. How are you? Nice to meet you. My name is Nicole Burkes. I'm from Hibbing, Minnesota. I'm here to find my here with my sister-in-law The wedding date, We might have to My fiance's name He's a wonderful man. He's everything We fell in love fast and furious and we want to start be together forever right now. She met him seven came and asked me for her after that. She needs a dress fast. I flew all the way to New York We set up all So far my taste is so this is going I'm going to have to NARRATOR: With an indecisive Dianne knows she has Is there somewhere - Do we? No caps. [LAUGHS] We're very fortunate in so there doesn't have to I think the sky's the limit. Yeah. She likes to shop and then go in for the kill. [LAUGHS] NARRATOR: With money is like a kid in a candy store. Wow. Oh yeah. See. See. Totally. NARRATOR: This but Dianne's challenge her choose just one dress. I like this one too. All right. [LAUGHS] The wedding is Bay, St. John, Virgin Islands. We're flying to We've invited about going to move them they can come to the wedding. NARRATOR: Nicole is ready and it's a head turner. Sexy. DIANNE: Oh my god. This is making me I love that dress. Very romantic dress. It's gorgeous. NARRATOR: Seeing how Nicole Dianne wants to gauge I have to confer Your panel. [LAUGHS] NANCY: So elegant. DIANNE: Gorgeous. I love the back. DIANNE: Dan? John would fall over. That's what I said. I mean, he had to go, wow. I thought my dad was Where are you going, to the But he loved it. NARRATOR: The dress wins over It's almost like I want someone what it looks like from afar. That dress felt but ultimately I wouldn't and I do want to What do you think? I like it. It's too much fun to Why not do it? She doesn't want to I like this one too. This is too hard of a decision. NARRATOR: Five dresses, and Two hours later and well into Dianne pulls a gown that finally Look at her. Talk about pretty in pink. Oh, I love how DIANNE: Yeah, this will I love that other This one is fun. NARRATOR: Everyone Dan, you're being It's wild. Pink dress was maybe too I was hoping that it NARRATOR: Daddy's girl Well, I really at me to see how I react, NARRATOR: And she now has second thoughts. The other one was so romantic. And this one's fun, So can we find one that's both? NARRATOR: Nicole so Dianne pulls a gown NICOLE: I really like this one. DIANNE: That is gorgeous. Told you. I feel like this is getting Told you. OK, ready? [MUSIC PLAYING] Oh, look at this. It's combining things, isn't it? This is combining NARRATOR: The gown is a hit. I'm really DIANNE: Dad, what do you think? It took my breath away. - Really? Didn't you hear him? Three times he's telling that. NICOLE: Serious? It took my breath away. Yes. Look, you have This is the dress. This is her expression. Here you go, Nancy. They were all I'm loving it. I love it. DIANNE: Love it on you. Love it. I like this one most of all. NARRATOR: Finally, it looks and Dianne has landed a sale. So then this is to wear on your wedding day? Well, I have to go NARRATOR: Then suddenly But we have everything here. She didn't like wanted to try on more dresses. This is the one she sees Good. Good. And I still have to And she still wants Is she crazy? Because we came to I set up all these appointments. I can't just throw the I need to go there, but-- so OK, whatever you feel. It's not the case of winning Nicole, in this case, that has to be won over. I feel a little and I don't like that feeling. I want the final I think in her mind it was I have to stop? I can't try more on? NARRATOR: After a Dianne hates to see her but Nicole heads out before the day is over. It's a half hour and upstairs, bride Nicole She wants to continue shopping. We would like to try that I didn't get I've already spent at least Now it's about 20 to 6:00, but The thing I'm running into is in Edina, right where I live. It has every Monique And so if I can't more dresses before then I will just go there. And she's pretty much that, well, if I can't you know, there's a Monique NARRATOR: Dianne is relying to accommodate what is The only thing let me see if maybe and she could try on Some girls enjoy the They want to see how when they stand, when So some girls are a little This is a different-- oh. Oh. Well. NANCY: This is different too. I like this one better that I just had on. She likes this one I don't feel NARRATOR: The store but Nicole is still shopping. At least she's come back from before. That's the dress I love. Yes, hands down. If this isn't her Right? NANCY: Yes. Where's the veil? Let me get a veil. OK. The one she had on earlier. Here we go. Nicole is so focused and wanting to try on dresses that I think she kind of around her. Now if this isn't it, I'm lost. I think she's kind of unaware If this-- if this isn't need to call an end to today. Her family's exhausted, I don't want you to and if you don't feel I want you to go I do think Nicole I'm serious. You're joking? No, I'm serious because we're I know you are. That's why I'm laughing. I wish they would have I think she is under can have anything she wants. Dad, can you park your Yeah, it doesn't go to That's good. NARRATOR: Bride Nicole herself in wedding gowns. Well past closing time she's still in Randy is about to My job is to make about that wedding gown. I wasn't very happy. They were rushing me. I don't want you to And if you don't feel I want you to go And as soon as I said she's like, no, no, no, no. I don't want to take it off. It's beautiful. It's romantic. It's a rich fabric. It shows off your waist. It's a beautiful neckline. It's everything you asked for. I have brides that want to look and they always another dress that's going to And you know what? Sometimes it's not true. This is it, Nicole. This is it. This is it. OK. I want you to look in there and [LAUGHS] I want you to me-- is this your dress? This is my dress. - Are we getting it? Are you saying yes? Yes. This is like, yes, [LAUGHTER] NANCY: Oh, Cola. Oh god, he's going to cry now. Yeah, you're I'm happy. I'm happy for you. I knew this was your dress, In his heart and in my NICOLE: Thank you for letting That's just how I am. Nicole and I that is very strong. Seeing my daughter in her bridal She's going to not be I can imagine walking down he's going to cry. There's not words to describe Hi. Who do we have with us? This is my mom, Joanne. And Lizzy, my maid of honor. Hello, hello. Nice to meet you. Talk to me about what Well, we're obviously very dresses. You're standing in ELIZABETH: Right. I feel like it's just very me. It's very you. So tell me what that means. I want to feel timeless, something that's special. We love the bows. Oh, we love the bows. How could you not love a bow? Drama, drama, drama, right? Yeah. If I had to describe myself, I'm bubbly, I love I'm indecisive. PETER: What budget are We're thinking around 25. PETER: OK. But-- [MUSIC PLAYING] We're open, you know. So-- If we love it-- Yeah. Right. All right, ladies. You can head to our pedestal. Thank you. PETER: And next she'll be in a wedding gown. PETER: Yes. OK. Well, since we're we have her gowns right here. Is there anything immediately want to try? So definitely want that I've been thinking about. I like a little Do we want to pull Yes, let's do her. I've been eyeing this. I feel like it might not have for, but I need to try it on. Yeah, let's check our boxes, - Yes. I think going into today actually saying to keep looking wanting this for a long time. I think when I met the first thing I thought about He is, honestly, just the He lights up a room. It's easy. It's fun. We are best friends. We are getting married in and I feel like once I I'll get even more and more I'm so excited that because her designs are so fun. They're beautiful. Any of them calling - I think I need to start here. We've been talking about her. We've been looking at her. Let's get in her. The Emberly dress kind all the elements that I want. It's crisp and but it has this and so I know that I need Peter-- Take a look at that-- Oh my gosh. --Mama. That sounds promising. Oh, I'm loving the sleeves. Mm-hmm. Obviously on the But this sleeve-- and then Exactly. I hope we like it. I know. Here I go. Oh my god. Oh my god. [MUSIC PLAYING] Oh my-- ELIZABETH: You look Oh look, here I go. [LAUGHS] It's amazing. We just started. PETER: All right, this was fast. And we're done. ELIZABETH: One and done. JOANNE: Wow. I mean-- and Peter will be tailored up here. But I didn't think that but it adds such a fun look. JOANNE: That is-- I am speechless. That is beautiful. You know what? It's one of a kind. PETER: Absolutely. JOANNE: It's absolutely-- PETER: I was saying we don't ELIZABETH: That's a showstopper. And I love that cut on you. JOANNE: I didn't think I was ELIZABETH: And that COURTNEY: I love it. I actually feel like-- ELIZABETH: I love this. COURTNEY: --I could leave It's-- I know. [LAUGHS] Let's turn to the mirror. So we have three looks in comes right off. - Oh. PETER: Just elegant. JOANNE: Beautiful. PETER: You could do like sleeves for reception. Both for ceremony. There's so-- you can style this. Oh. We didn't even-- thank you. ELIZABETH: Oh, hello. COURTNEY: Wow. We didn't even try it. OK. JOANNE: I love the sleeve. PETER: We've got more I'm not sure that she's I'm loving the first I'm second guessing. Like, is this really-- is this really it? How could the first I know. COURTNEY: I love We're going to We're going to see But I don't know if this You didn't think you were I know. It's the sleeves. This next gal, I'm actually because she's a different So this is going to be like Courtney is indecisive because and she wants to be I think she needs but she also wants the elegant, I actually feel Yeah. It's just very couture. Very. She says very couture. Is it beating I don't-- I don't think so. Oh, she didn't like it. Shh. She didn't like it. ELIZABETH: Maybe we do. I think that the first dress but this dress is beautiful. I need to see what I think my mom's going I think that this of envisioned me in-- crisp, ELIZABETH: Oh, a little leg. This is my red carpet look. Don't love it as OK. JOANNE: Yeah, don't-- I said I feel is still definitely on our JOANNE: I love, love the top. I don't love the top. You look stunning that we're adding a little too because we have such JOANNE: That's a good point. We don't have We don't have to do all that. I love it. Not for my wedding. PETER: Easy. Thank you. PETER: Onward and upward. I can really tell that So this is-- we have her at $4,500. OK. She's worth a shot. I think it's gorgeous. It's got that big bow element So if I tried this head over heels in love, put back on that first dress. I actually think there might Wait until you see this bow. --with the bow. Oh my. Wow. PETER: All the way down too. COURTNEY: OK. This is worth a show. [GASPS] Very elegant, and Oh. Wow. It was a Peter pick. Good job, Peter. Oh wow. COURTNEY: What do you think? JOANNE: That's stunning. ELIZABETH: It's beautiful. JOANNE: Look at the back. I know. Oh wow. I love it. Oh, I really love it. Oh. Oh, this is only I do. I love it, Court. ELIZABETH: I was it was missing the glitter. Do you love, Liz? I do. COURTNEY: You're so cute. So we're in a This is Sarah Nouri. Sarah Nouri is very She loves a bow. Wow. I do-- I do love it. JOANNE: Wow. How does it compare JOANNE: I think I love it more. Everybody is really I can tell it's a great dress. Everyone's so excited. I'm not. I-- I'm torn. Like, I love it. I don't-- I love the bow, but to have a bridezilla moment. Not on the camera. I don't know. I feel like-- I just I'm feeling confused. If I'm being truthful to me cry the way it made you cry. JOANNE: Oh, wow. Yeah, I want to put OK. 100%. I think she's We did come here and so I think getting that - Love you. I wish I could give you a hug. You know, she hasn't and she is an emotional person. And I think she thinks that she I 100% think she needs OK, we're back. Oh, you look so pretty. Aw. Oh. That's [INDISTINCT]. That's so cute. I feel like it's, Your face alone shows it too. You know what? That's it. That's-- yeah, I love it. I'm not crying, You don't have You don't have the full picture. JOANNE: Oh, I don't know I really think this we're just close to that yes. So I actually want to get because she's such a fan. OK, my dear. So I do have a love to see you in this gown. OK. This is Allison. Oh. Hi. Oh my gosh. You're so cute. I love you so much. You look absolutely beautiful. Thank you. I didn't cry until I The cool thing is you can kind of style it You can take the them on, have the Watteau on. I don't know-- are you PETER: She is. ALLISON WEBB: Amazing. COURTNEY: Yes. What type of veil do I think the dress would just do a really Honestly, that's when you'll Veils have a special Yes. I needed to try on some to make sure that the first OK. I needed that confirmation on a second time, add the and then seal the deal. [GASPS] Mom. Mom, stop. I can't even see it yet. Oh my goodness. Their reaction was telling as the indecisive bride. We're going to turn. Oh my god, Peter, I love you. You're the best. OK. Wow, look at the back. COURTNEY: Am I ready? PETER: You look ready. COURTNEY: OK. I think I need a countdown. Three, two, one. Oh. 100%, done. ELIZABETH: Courtney. You're such an angel. Oh my god. I really do see myself-- oh my gosh. Wow. I really do see the aisle to my fiance Courtney, are you I'm saying yes to the dress. [CHEERING]