So after living in Malaysia for more than a year, I wanted to make a video about tips about living in Malaysia as a foreigner. These are things that just stood out to me as an American living in Malaysia. It's a long list so let's get started. If you attend any kind of event or social activity there will probably be food involved. We have never come across a Malaysian who is not friendly toward us and they are so willing to assist you if you need directions or help with anything. This takes some getting used to if you're from a right driving country even if you aren't driving yourself. My wife loves this, she prefers a firm mattress. If you find your mattress to be too firm you can buy a mattress topper to make it softer. We've had no problems communicating here. Levels of proficiency do vary by area but almost everyone speaks at least a basic level of English. In general Malaysia is very modern and has great infrastructure. It's definitely not a third world country. Be careful when you are crossing the street. You never know when a car could suddenly appear and the drivers might not slow down for you. Leave your shoes outside when you are entering a house a temple a mosque and sometimes smaller family-run businesses. In Malaysia you will find a mixture of ethnicities including the Malay, people of Chinese descent, people of Indian descent, and many other ethnicities as well. These food courts usually have a variety of stalls and types of food and the seating areas are usually outdoors. There are many different religions here in Malaysia. Islam is probably the most common but there are mosques, churches, and temples throughout the country. There's usually a sink in the eating area when eating out so that it's not necessary to go to the toilet just to wash your hands. Bills come in 1 5 10 20 50 and sometimes 100 notes. Some restaurants do have free refills but it's not as common as it is back home, and sorry America I just have to say that's part of the reason we are so unhealthy. Just my two cents there. Scooters and motorcycles are a very common way people get around their city. They are cheaper and use less gasoline than cars. And this is even for eating things like rice but forks spoons and chopsticks are available when eating out too. We personally haven't experienced big problems with noisy situations but this is something foreigners mention. Sometimes it's construction noise sometimes traffic or other types of loud noise. Prices are generally set and negotiating is not typical. I don't feel like I'm getting ripped off because I'm a foreigner. For example I lost the snorkel mask that I rented. I could have easily been overcharged for the replacement but I was asked to pay a fair price, and appreciate the honesty. Now I just said a second ago that I don't feel like I'm getting ripped off as a foreigner right? But even though the prices are higher they are set and fair. We did have one apartment with a clothes dryer and an oven but they aren't common. You can buy a standalone oven if you really want one. It's much easier to live in Malaysia without owning a car than it is in the United States. Buses and trains run both within cities and also between cities. Instead of having a big hot water tank for an entire apartment each individual shower usually has an on-demand hot water system. You could still get charged by your home bank if you're using a foreign card but depending on the bank you might not be charged on the Malaysian side of the transaction. The two main websites for internet shopping are lazada and shoppee. Delivery times are fast if the product is coming from within Malaysia and we like that you can pay for your order with cash at 7-11. Occasional downtime does happen but in our experience internet is usually fast and dependable. Just something to be aware of. For example during the past year the rate to the US dollar varied by as much as 10 percent. We don't generally drink alcohol but if you do budget accordingly. Langkawi is duty-free on alcohol if that helps. Malaysia is generally very safe but for extra security you will see these bars. It also allows you to keep the windows and doors open to let in some fresh air. Be prepared for hot and humid tropical weather all year but you can escape to the highland areas in the center of the peninsula to get a dose of pleasant temperatures. Malaysian food is not generally vegetarian but you can find meatless dishes and meatless food products in the grocery stores. Now the word low is relative. Crime and terrorism can happen anywhere but we feel much safer here than in the U.S. I don't have to wonder if I'll get shot at the grocery store. This is especially true of family run businesses and which day of the week each is closed will vary. In the U.S. shopping malls are in decline in being abandoned but they are still going strong in Malaysia. This is the same as the U.K. You can buy adapters here, no problem. People do eat beef here but less than in the U.S. The beef in Malaysia is mostly imported from Australia and priced accordingly. I don't eat beef anymore so this doesn't impact me personally. Now this of course comes from an American perspective. Prices in Malaysia can be as low as 10% of what they are in the U.S., seriously. In the U.S. sometimes you have no idea how much a health appointment costs until it's over and you get the bill. In Malaysia it's much easier to find out the cost ahead of time. I still cannot get over the prices here, amazing. In Malaysia you can usually book an appointment just a few days ahead of time at least that's been our experience. There will usually be security guards and cameras in apartment complexes that are frequented by expats. Heavy rain and flooding does occur but destructive storms like hurricanes or typhoons are not a problem and Malaysia doesn't have a major problem with earthquakes. Bring a jacket because the air conditioning can be cranked up high on trains buses and ferries and our experience especially the ferries. The Malay language uses the Roman alphabet, it's not tonal, and some of the words are similar to English. Here's the word for &quot;restaurant&quot;. Here's the word for &quot;police&quot;. And the word for &quot;bus&quot; is on the screen there. There are expats all over the country but Penang seems to be the central area for retired expats while KL has more of the younger business type expats. I came to Malaysia not particularly liking spicy food but now I've really grown to like it and the word spicy can be relative what is not spicy to a Malaysian can be spicy to a westerner. This is especially true in Penang and KL there's a link to a separate video on international food that you see there. We personally use a portable filter but sometimes hotels and apartments will have filtered water available. We've had trouble finding recycle bins in a few places in Malaysia but most places have recycling bins readily available. MM2H is the visa many expats use to live in Malaysia the program is undergoing a review and not yet available. These are two states on the island of Borneo and they have some autonomy over their immigration. Sarawak has completed their review of the MM2H program and you can find its requirements online. But there are efforts to minimize these diseases through awareness and also through mosquito fumigation. You won't typically see women with exposed shoulders or wearing shorts. Halal restaurants won't serve pork or alcohol and there will usually be a sign to indicate whether or not the restaurant is halal. These non-halal items will be in a separate area or room and will have non-Muslim cashiers. Grab is Malaysia's ride sharing company and they are inexpensive. In Ipoh for example it was only 4 ringgit or about a U.S. dollar for a short ride. The cost of a liter of petrol is around two ringgit at the time of this video. For Americans that's roughly the equivalent of two dollars per gallon and for Europeans roughly a half euro per liter. You can see the calendar here and there are many state and local holidays in addition to federal holidays. If you have kids that you want to attend an international school you will have no trouble finding one in Malaysia. It's not impossible you just have to look a little harder and there might not be as much variety. Durian is a local fruit with a very strong smell and you will see signs banning it from elevators buses and hotels. We noticed this especially around the Merdeka Day holiday when Malaysian flags are flying everywhere. We've had good experience shopping at these local markets often finding inexpensive and quality items. You can find the American chains too but Malaysia has its own restaurant chains. Secret Recipe is a mid-range type restaurant with delicious desserts, Marybrown is fast food chicken, Old Town White Coffee is a coffee shop, and the Chicken Rice Shop has, you guessed it, chicken rice. Many places do accept credit cards but not everywhere and epay is becoming more popular too. Just like in the U.S. where we skipped the 13th floor for superstitious reasons. This is a rice dish with anchovy sauce cucumber and eggs. It's so common that even Mcdonald's serves it. We even rented one apartment where we could see two types of monkeys from the window and sometimes they would come out of the forest and into the neighborhood. Okay I thought this was weird at first but I like it now. It's sanitary and efficient and you can still buy toilet paper if you prefer that. It's ranked at number 20 and since I'm American I'll compare it to the U.S. which is all the way down at number 120. This is a store that sells all kinds of things kitchen items, home repair, office supplies, toys, flip-flops you name it. Be especially careful if you're crossing the street a scooter could be going through the intersection even if the light is red. You will definitely draw attention to yourself if you're showing public displays of affection around other people. If you're not sure you can always ask but a standard tip of 10% is quite often already built into the price. We use Digi and there are a wide variety of plans to choose from and prices are very reasonable. There are many Facebook groups that arrange meetups if you want to meet other expats in your area of Malaysia. The gas for stoves is usually in a tank that will be delivered to your house or apartment. For us a tank lasted about 6 weeks and costs 30 ringgit. Even if you're driving from the northernmost city If you are in a wheelchair or have any mobility issues getting around could be a challenge. There are two lines and our experience with the trains has always been punctual and comfortable. We think this is a great website when searching for a long-term lease on an apartment. I forget this and it's not a big problem nobody's going to get mad but it is more polite to point with your thumb. I'll tell you though my wife cannot eat gluten in the U.S. but she has no problems here in Malaysia. I think the wheat might be processed differently here. Unfortunately their habitat is disappearing but there are also conservation efforts to help save them from extinction. If you don't have a printer and need a paper copy of a document head for a photocopy shop. Even though we do see trash quite often we also see people cleaning it up too. The skies are not totally free from pollution but compared to Thailand or India or China, Malaysia is generally looking pretty good. This is due to the strength of the U.S. dollar and you can watch the video in the link that you see there for more about our cost of living. But not always a lot more expensive compared to the U.S., and unless you're buying a massive amount of electronics is probably not significant just something to be aware of. The fare is determined by where you board and where you disembark so be prepared to tell the driver your destination. If you leave the windows open or have cracks under They are inexpensive usually have good modern machines and easy to locate all around Malaysia. Flights to other parts of Asia are plentiful and cheap. I even saw one flight from KL to the Philippines for 50 dollars. Probably a bit more common than it is in the U.S but it's not in your face overwhelming with cigarette smoke. The most common publications are The Star, The Malay Mail, and The New Straight Times. This grocery store seems to have the biggest selection of food items imported from other countries, but Cold Storage and Tesco are good too. The toilets are free in shopping malls and restaurants but you might be charged a very small amount at bus and train stations. You'll see both of these types and we personally never had a situation where only one type was available. We've had both types and by wet I mean that the shower is not in a separate stall so the water just sprays onto the bathroom floor. This arrow points in the direction of Mecca so that Muslim guests know in which direction to pray. Unlike the U.S. where you usually need to have your own furniture in Malaysia it's common for furniture to be included when renting an apartment. All right I know this was a long video thanks for watching not just this video but all of our videos about our life in Malaysia. It has been really fun for me to create all of these videos and I appreciate all of the views and support.