A friend brought me a chaga mushroom. 50 grams of chaga mushroom. Chaga has anti-inflammatory and antiviral properties. 50 ml sea buckthorn oil. 4 cloves of garlic. Such oil should be in every home medicine cabinet. Boil water in a pot over low heat for 30 minutes. Allow the oil to cool. Strain oil. 5-6 drops of iodine solution. 15 bay leaves. 2 tablespoons dried rosemary. 1 liter of boiling water. Let it steep for 40 minutes. Take a small basin. Pour the decoction of bay leaves and rosemary into the basin. Add cold water. 100 grams of sea salt. 100 ml apple cider vinegar. The water temperature should be warm and comfortable for the body. Keep your feet in the foot bath for 30 minutes. This is a preventive measure to remove uric acid. Then take the prepared ointment. Apply the ointment to the bones of the legs and arms, toes and fingers. Apply the ointment to the joints and varicose veins. Store the ointment in a dark and cool place for up to 6 months. Grapefruit leaves. Grapefruit contains substances that break down cholesterol and lower blood sugar levels. Grapefruit leaves contain very beneficial essential oils. These essential oils are easily broken down and prevent joint osteoarthritis. Grate grapefruit peel. Grapefruit peels are useful for the elderly to maintain blood vessels and joints. 2-3 tablespoons grapefruit peel. 100 ml olive oil. Cook over low heat for 30 minutes. 30 grams of beeswax. You can also add paraffin instead of beeswax. Wax is used to make dosage forms and healing ointments. Cook again until the wax is completely dissolved. Store the ointment in a dark, cool place for up to 6 months. Apply the ointment to joints and blood vessels once a day. Apply ointment and massage in. I wish you happiness and health. Now I'll show you another healthy recipe from my grandmother. 1 tablespoon cloves. 1 tablespoon black cumin seeds. My grandmother is happy to share with you her useful remedy, the ointment. Write in the comments what video recipes you would like to see. 1 lemon. 1 tablespoon carbonate. Let stand for 15 minutes. Grate lemon peel. 100 ml olive oil. Cook in a water bath for 30 minutes. 30 grams of beeswax. You can also add paraffin instead of beeswax. Cook again until the wax is completely dissolved. Apply the ointment to joints and blood vessels once a day. Also apply the ointment to bones and wounds. Store the ointment in a dark, cool place for up to 6 months. 100 grams of celery leaves. A diet based on celery is successfully used to treat joints. Kotove strengthens bones and prevents fractures. 2 tablespoons rosemary. Rosemary is the most powerful herb for cerebral circulation. Also for blood vessels, joints, skin, hair and more. 1 tablespoon carbonate. Wash the lemon thoroughly as we will be using its peel. Lemon peel is an excellent antiseptic and anti-inflammatory product. That's why lemon peel is excellent for joint pain. 4-5 cloves of garlic. Garlic contains vitamins such as C, B6, B1, B2, B3, B5, B9. Allicin garlic essential oil is a powerful antioxidant. Garlic is used as a medicine for constipation and appendicitis. 80 ml olive oil. Olive oil contains many trace elements that are necessary for healthy bones and joints. Write in the comments from which country you watch my videos. I look forward to reading your comments! Do n't forget to subscribe and click the bell. Cook in a water bath for 30 minutes. Write in the comments what other recipes you would like to see on my channel. Apply to varicose veins and joints. Apply this oil every evening for 3 months. Store the oil in a dark, cool place for up to 6 months. Peel 1 onion. Onion peels contain vitamins B, C, E and PP. The product normalizes heart function and blood sugar levels. 2 tablespoons chamomile. Chamomile contains the substances alpha-bisabolol and matrices. 2 tablespoons sage. Sage is used in the form of a decoction, oil or tincture. A decoction or tincture of sage is used as an anti-inflammatory agent. 1 tablespoon of celandine. The diverse composition of celandine explains its versatile effects. 80 ml olive oil. Olive oil makes blood vessels more elastic and strengthens them. Like this video, I will be very happy! Cook in a water bath for 30 minutes. If necessary, apply the oil for longer until the skin discomfort disappears. The oil eliminates skin irritations, redness, eczema and other skin problems. Apply to skin in the evening for one week. Store the oil in a dark and cool place.