Early summer 1944. The war had decisively turned against Germany. The Axis forces had been consistently pushed were preparing to move into Germany. The Western Allies had gathered their forces prepared a large force to counter them. They intended to push the Western Allies into Eastern front. There the Red Army had achieved a strong superiority stage operation. First, the German forces on the Eastern front positions without them being able to retreat After the Axis forces had been severely weakened, take over its resources to wage war. As the first step Finland would be knocked Then the Red Army would encircle and destroy After that, the Soviet forces would advance which would result in cutting off the Army The German forces would then be pushed into Finally an attack would be launched in the These operations would destroy most of the front and clear the scene for an attack into Back in 1941 the Finns had seized forward and since then the Northern part of the front The Soviet plan entailed encircling the Finnish advancing into the depth of the country without The first attack on the Karelian Isthmus pushed to escape the encirclement and conducted an The Soviets launched an offensive in the east, forces back and deploy them on a new defensive By this time the focus of the Red Army had they couldn't spare forces for follow-up Thus armistice was signed in September and concessions, than could've been possible. With Finland leaving the war, the German presence Using the rough terrain to their advantage, were able to evade the Finnish and Soviet The Red Army didn't follow them and the an end. As the battles were raging in Finland, the in the Center. Army Group Center could be attacked from the Soviets had created two large concentrations The Southern attack would be more dangerous attention to that sector, thinking that the This allowed the Soviets to achieve a total They attacked at the flanks of the Army Group The German forces were forbidden to retreat the original front. Their southern forces were able to pull back The Red Army advanced towards Minsk with little The Germans were unable to pull their remaining east of Minsk. With half of the Army Group Center's strength continued. One opportunity to stop the Soviet advance, and counterattack at the flank of the Soviet However due to strategic considerations, Army Instead it was decided to stop the Soviet of the front. With their main focus in the west, there were It would take time before the Germans could of the eastern front. When the front had moved far enough west, action. They had built up an especially strong concentration After achieving a breakthrough, their force One of them was tasked with securing a bridgehead and the other moved north in a flanking move By this time the Germans had gathered a reserve up the front. There were two critical situations - the breakthrough and a large gap between Army Groups Center The Germans decided to first deal with the As the Soviet forces neared Warsaw, Polish However, the German armoured forces arrived, was stabilized. Meanwhile, the Red Army had began the destruction It exploited the gap between the Army Groups established a narrow corridor to the sea, Group North. However the Red Army didn't have the strength were able to trade land for time. This gave them time to redeploy their armoured reestablishing the land connection with the The Red Army now made a pause to gather sufficient However, when their advance continued, the The Red Army wasn't able to catch and destroy It now switched its focus to the South and the Germans off balance. Soon the Red Army reached the sea cutting were unable to finish the German forces off. The Soviet forces now extended their attack time to reestablish a solid front and the October marked the end of the Red Army's The Soviet forces now began a long preparation of Germany. During the Soviet offensive in the Center front. The Germans had deployed their forces along landings. With their forces spread out, their immediate deny the Allies a beachhead. The Germans combined their troops for an effort However they ended up only having the strength For most of June and July both the Allies to Normandy, but, as the Germans had also they were unable to allocate enough troops beachhead. The Germans still hoped to contain them and This was a mistake. Part of the German forces were destroyed and With their troops disorganized, the Germans river positions in Northern France and could terrain in front of the German border. The Allies began preparations to carry their As the Allied forces were breaking out of the final part of their plan - an attack against During the summer more and more forces were to deal with the crisis in the Center. Despite that the Army Group had retained its In late August the Red Army launched its offensive It took advantage of the vulnerable deployment part of them. Romania had long seeked an opportunity to large part of the German forces was neutralized, war on Germany. The Red Army now moved South unopposed. The surviving German units attempted to reestablish the Red Army moved west along the plains to As the Soviet units entered Bulgaria, this and began mobilizing its army. In the Carpathians the Germans were now joined a solid front along the mountain range. However they didn't have enough time and of the mountains, the Red Army was able to with little opposition. Now the Axis presence in the mountains became cut off these forces with a two-pronged attack. However the Northern attack was unable to the Axis forces to concentrate on the southern This slowed the Red Army's advance enough from the salient in time. The defection of Bulgaria and the Soviet advance occupation force in Greece. This area wasn't considered important by limited resources to Hungary. This gave the Germans time to gather their soon they began the withdrawal from Greece. They were able to extract much of their units Until the end of the war the southernmost importance for the Red Army and fighting there By October the first phase of the Soviet plan They were able to deny the Axis the Romanian Center and South and, while they were unable in Courland. Germany itself was now vulnerable to an invasion. The forces in the North would undertake large were to continue their advance. The Soviet forces continued their push, but prior disasters and the Red Army's advance Danube. With the central front quieting down, the The Soviets were able to extend their southern progress in the North was far slower. Facing difficulties, the Red Army concentrated where the Axis had deployed a large garrison. During December the Soviet forces slowly moved with the main Axis front had been cut, began defenders. With the northern part of the front still and attempted to reestablish the land connection In the following month they achieved some the city. In the last months of 1944 most of Soviet Germany and the fronts were relatively quiet. The Germans misinterpreted this as a sign They sent freed up forces west in their last Allies by encircling their forces in Belgium. However the attack was fought to a standstill Allies began to push the Germans back. With their reserves used up, there was little for Germany, which now began on the Eastern During the pause in the fighting the Germans from Courland, but they decided to keep them defeated, they would be able to use the Courland Now there wasn't much opportunity left to By mid January the Soviets were making final They had created three large concentrations The central force would advance directly towards flanks. At the same time the German forces in East The setup of the German troops in Poland was and a lot of their forces deployed away from The offensive began in mid January. The weak German defence in the south and center quickly, but the northern attack got bogged As a result the central force outran the northern The Germans threw all of their forces east After the Soviet forces had reached the Oder a decision, whether to keep moving towards encirclement from the flanks. Or to secure the flanks first and then continue They decided for the latter option. With the Germans scrambling their forces and proceeded in a slower pace. In February the Soviets expanded their flanks in the south and pushed the German forces This delay allowed the Germans to reestablish would need more time to continue their advance Meanwhile the Red Army had cleared up Budapest By this time the Germans had switched their the Reich. They had deployed a large force in front of they could hope to conduct offensive warfare to conduct an encirclement. The Red Army had learned of their plan and before starting its own offensive. The Germans were too weak by this time to attack was absorbed by the Soviet defences. The Red Army then attacked and pushed the captured territory. The Axis resistance was soon greatly reduced After they had captured Vienna and secured the advance was stopped. With a large part of the German forces scrambled hold the Rhine river line. In mid March the Western Allies crossed the German rear. They pinned most of their immobilized forces of the German troops in the Ruhr area. Having neutralized a large part of the German North Germany almost unopposed. By mid April their forces had reached the responsibility of the Red Army and the Western Here they stopped and waited for the Red Army At the same time the Red Army destroyed most coast and deployed the freed up units to the In the middle of April the offensive was launched. The Red Army wanted to avoid costly urban Berlin, encircling the capital. Most of the German forces were left outside Hitler then ordered them to move into Berlin to fight their way out west. Thus the Red Army was able to clear Berlin Soon the Soviet forces made contact with the By that time Germany had lost most of its the last Axis forces on the Eastern Front In the last operation of the Soviet-German of the German forces in Czechoslovakia and During this time the general German surrender remaining pockets of Axis resistance in Europe With that World War Two in Europe ended and We would like to thank our Patrons for making (paus 2 sekundit) During these series we looked front. If you'd like to see it from a more personal reading: "Against the Odds: Survival on the Russian during the last year of the war. "Ivan's War: Life and Death in the Red Army" a perspective of a Red Army soldier. And for truly hardcore tactics fans I can During the German Campaign in Russia" that of many small actions written for the US army In order to read these books, you can sign Kindle Unlimited and gain access to these By doing so you would also be supporting the The links are in the description. You can cancel it anytime. But, note that their service is only available Thank you for watching and see you next time!