[jazzy music] Herrine Ro: Thousands of are strewn throughout New York City. But only a few are famous We visited Clinton St. Baking Company, Sunday in Brooklyn, and Taiyaki NYC to find the best pancakes in town. We started filming in March, We were kinda put on a setback We've already eaten at all three places. At each place, we will be One, we're looking at texture. The pancake should be fluffy and cooked all the way Erin Kommor: Two, we're looking for color. We're looking for a golden-brown pancake that ensures a slight crispiness on the exterior of the pancake. Herrine: And finally, three, toppings. We're looking at toppings that but not steal the spotlight. Erin: All right, let's roll the rest. Herrine: So, we're going to This place is probably we're going to be going to for pancakes. I've been trying to get in There's always a line. I can never get in. Herrine: This place honestly for their blueberry pancakes, and that's what we're gonna be trying. Erin: I am so excited, Herrine. Herrine: Let's go. Neil Kleinberg: I don't think I know they are. They're just, like, the perfect balance of sweet, savory, luxurious deliciousness. The recipe is not secret. It's more of the technique of the way it's put together that makes them so special, plus great ingredients. Basically, a pancake is a cake batter. So when you flip it, all like the salt and the and all of that, it's a chemical reaction. When you flipped it, that's when it rose, and those active ingredients and that's the less Are you guys learning anything here? Producer: We're learning so much! Neil: We do a sprinkling of Wild Maine blueberries are the key to our blueberry pancakes. They only grow in Maine for a month, and then they're harvested. They are an intense blueberry flavor packed in a tiny little berry. The ring on the pancake is It's gotta be there. It's the butter that that makes the texture of eating what you're eating so delicious. And it's also a look. We eat with our eyes, so you see that beautiful, perfect sphere. We put a spoon of our homemade which is a beautiful complement to the fresh blueberries in the pancake. We have this amazing maple butter. It has a lot of essence of butterscotch, caramel, brown sugar. It takes all those nuances on, and it's really the perfect Herrine: I really wanna about these pancakes. Herrine: So, color-wise, it's everything and more that we wanted. A beautiful golden brown. Erin: Perfectly cooked. Like, this is my ideal-looking pancake. Herrine: I know. I didn't know this, but the ring actually is something that you should look for, because it signifies that there's, Erin: [laughing] Oh, my God! Herrine: Topping game, they won? Erin: I have tears in my eyes, that's -- Herrine: You actually do! Erin: I feel like I'm gonna cry. I'm not even kidding. Herrine: Oh, my God, you Erin: I know, no, I'm not even kidding. This is one of the best things Herrine: You only tried the topping! Erin: I know. Herrine: Shall we? Erin: Dip. Herrine: Wow. It's astonishing how It's a maple butter sauce. And it has, like, a caramelly taste to it. Erin: I'd die for that. Because like, super buttery and heavy, but it has the maple, and that Herrine: Yeah, and it's a little nutty. Erin: Yes! That's the word I was looking for. Can I talk to you about this sauce? Herrine: You may talk Erin: There's lemon in it. And that's what the game changer is. Herrine: It has that nice burst of acidity and freshness to it. Erin: You know I'm a sweet kind of gal, and every element of this I'm trying to be like, I can't think of anything to work on. Herrine: If you would pick apart each part of the pancake, there's not much to critique. Herrine: And also, it's not as sweet as I We totally completely that there are not just there are blueberries inside. Erin: That's essential. Herrine: And it does Like, it bursts with juice and flavor. It's delicious. Erin: They taste like amped What is your favorite element, if you had to choose one? Herrine: I honestly think the texture and color is like, it can't be beat. So, we're going to Erin: I have heard of this place. Herrine: Really? They're the ones on Instagram And the pancakes look so dark and amazing. Herrine: That's exactly it. This place is famous for They're even trademarked. Erin: Really? I am so excited. Let's try them. Jaime Young: I wanted and almost cartoonlike, like the ones you see on Like, big pat of butter, but we wanted to take a to separate ourselves from We added malt powder to a little bit of sweetness The malt powder gives the pancakes a bit of nuttiness and sweetness to it, helps it kind of brown a It gives it more of, like, We don't overmix them; we By not mixing too much and letting the batter rest on its own, you get more of a fluffier texture. To cook the pancakes, we that we spray with a We heat it over medium heat. About 8-ounce-ladle just slowly cook it until Once we flip it, we put it in the oven for about three to four For us, the pan helps solidify If you do it on the griddle, it has the tendency to kind of spread out, and that's fine as well. We just prefer that using helps give it more height and structure. Instead of using syrup, I mixed hazelnut butter into the syrup with a little bit of water and some salt to make it kind of salty-sweet, and, you know, it really kind It's a little bit more rich and thick, kind of coats the pancake It's got more of a salty-sweet flavor, as opposed to just maple syrup. And we always add a pat to kind of give it some We torch the butter mostly because I find that it's frustrating on a pancake and you can't spread it. Herrine: It looks cartoonish. Erin: It doesn't look like a real thing. It looks mythical. Can we eat them, Herrine? Herrine: Yes, let's do it. Erin: Look at the bounce when you cut it, and look how golden. This is like a full-on cake. Herrine: It's more cake than pancake. Erin: Truly. It's... I'm.... Herrine: It's a little big for me. Erin: That's not big for me! Herrine: OK. Erin: Beep. I've never tasted It's so much saltier than Herrine: It is a combination You get little bits of the hazelnut that's, like, blended in, so you get a little bit of that texture. Erin: It's like a nut Herrine: It honestly, they but I think it tastes more like a saltier Ferrero Rocher. It's everything that you would want in a normal pancake, right? Like, it's fluffy, it has the golden-brown exterior, it has, the maple syrup is actually mixed into the sauce. Erin: I like that. Herrine: And the butter Erin: It's brown butter. Erin: Which we love. And we learned, I learned today that is... it's caramelized brown Herrine: Yes. Erin: God, yes! Herrine: So it's everything but just... Erin: Better. Erin: So, here's the thing, Herrine. Should we taste a bite Like, to just judge the pancake? Herrine: Mm-hmm. Herrine: Oh, you already tried it. Erin: Oh, yeah, sorry. [laughing] Herrine: OK. Erin: The actual pancake is so fluffy. Herrine: And I got a Erin: And that's important It is more cakey, though, than any pancake I've ever had. Herrine: The signature fluffiness is from malted barley and buttermilk. So that gives it that fluffy texture, but it's also giving it that nice, like, fattiness from the buttermilk. Erin: I love the golden The only thing I would say is, probably a lot of people disagree with me, but, like, the sauce is very overpowering. Herrine: The sauce that serves as a topping is delicious, but kind of overwhelming. I'm still eating it. kind of mask the overall pancake. Erin: Yeah. It has been six months and we ate at the first two locations. Herrine: We are going to It's a Japanese-inspired dessert shop known for its souffle pancakes. They're supposed to be Tom Yang: So we're mostly known for our Japanese ice cream with But when we launched the souffle pancakes, it became an instant hit. And we got the inspiration from Japan, so a lot of people wanted to try it. For our version, it's more light, it's very cloudy, it's very soft, and it almost melts in your mouth. That's what we're going for. We want it to be little not too sweet. So, the first thing we We use that with eggs, our secret flour, and some milk. Well, the flour is super secret, we don't tell anybody that, but the second secret which is technique. So, the secret behind the souffle pancakes is the the merengue, right? So we basically whip up some egg whites, make it nice and airy, and then we fold it into our base. The batter becomes very light, very airy, and we try to cook it as soon as possible, because the longer it sits, the more the air escapes from the batter. We actually premake parchment-paper molds. And that's just to, again, keep the quality consistent, right? It's easier to have them at a certain size and a certain shape. So, we offer two different First, we have the which is basically a Japanese twist on the classic American pancake. And then the second variation is our matcha souffle pancake, which we actually add our own homemade matcha cream sauce. It also comes with whipped a baby taiyaki with red bean inside, which is our trademark, and we also have whipped butter on top. Herrine: I thought that the were, like, the fluffiest. Erin: Oh, so did I. Herrine: And this just doesn't compare. Erin: This is No. 1 fluffy. Herrine: No. 1 fluffy. Herrine: I'm gonna try this little taiyaki topping first. Erin: To me, that tastes It has the crunchy exterior and the soft, plush interior. Herrine: It does have some give to it. Erin: Yeah, it stays. Oh, God. Herrine: It's like the That is unlike anything I've ever had. Erin: Not like any of It's fluffier than the other two by far. Herrine: Oh, it's like It absolutely disintegrates in your mouth. I feel like if there was a spectrum where Clinton St. was, like, and this is, like, the softest. Erin: They'd be at opposite ends. Herrine: The toppings, I This is the basic version. We tried the matcha one. Herrine: Unreal. Herrine: Like, if we were to loop in the matcha topping, I think equally as good as Clinton St. Erin: I've never eaten anything like this. I can say that with confidence. Never. Herrine: But do you like it? Erin: I really, really, really like it, but we've had so many good pancakes, I... [sighs] Herrine: 'Cause I feel like I had my winner, I try this, and I'm like, I don't know. I know. Herrine: If I'm being completely honest, we had to look back at a lot of the clips. We've come to a conclusion, right? Erin: I'm ready. Erin: OK. Herrine: My intuition is telling me we're gonna have a shared opinion. Erin: I have a good Both: three, two, one. Erin: Yay! This is the first time since the first episode that we agree. Herrine: How we have come full circle. Erin: What did you love about Clinton St.? Herrine: Pretty much everything. I mean, I feel like the technique and that golden ring really ensured that the And the toppings, I mean, that blueberry topping Super bright, refreshing. And the maple butter was Erin: Oh, my God. Why did you like Clinton St.? Erin: The texture for It was the perfect combination of crispy and plush in the middle. The golden brown was, they really got it to a science. They flipped it at the exact right time to make it perfect. And the toppings truly made me cry. The brightness of the blueberries and the lemon and the maple syrup. Oh, it was insane. Herrine: I've never I've never seen anyone cry over food. Erin: I've never had a Herrine: I feel like since is a testament in and of itself that these pancakes are So, what do you guys think? Do you agree with us? Do you agree that Clinton has the best pancakes in New York City? Erin: Let us know in the comments. Herrine: Stay safe.