We are on our way to the Great Wall of through hordes of tourists we'll put on unrestored portions of the wall with our The Jiankou section of the wall is one of the most dangerous portions to hike, but that just made us all the more excited to be there. is visited by tens of thousands of alone on the wall for the almost 5 hours we spent hiking. *Out of breath* This hike is no joke. We took a little break to fly the drone so I'm a little bit more energized. This section of the wall has completely crumbled. Here's the route we're supposed to go, up the side. Alright, this isn't so bad. I don't even know how to begin to explain how worth it this is. I have to admit when I saw the price I was a little bit worried but to have the whole wall to ourselves for hours *Claire trips* see pieces of it that are left alone just to be dealt with by time *Claire's brain explodes* Wow. So the hike down the mountain starts at so we are going to go up the Heavenly Ladder, up the flying eagle, back across the flying eagle back down the Heavenly Ladder and The most terrifying portion of this hike is the Heavenly Ladder which features stairs that climb at an angle of 85 degrees. Yes, you heard me right. That's five degrees less steep than going straight up. I'm really not ready to die. What is your fear level Justin? Justin: Yeah I'm holding on My whole body is shaking. Holy crap. This is fine.This is fine, I'm fine. This is fine. Justin's fine. Oh my gosh I mean REALLY?! I'm using my arms and my legs. This is a thing that's happening. What?! We're going down the heavenly ladder. Hug the wall, hug the wall.... It doesn't help that the rocks are slippery. They've got like, moss and mildew on them. so you have to have good footing or else you're screwed. Oh man, the bad part is over. My nose is running, I am soaked in sweat I've ever done in my whole life. This is the We're gonna go grab the car. So this hike is gonna be about 25 minutes and then we have a two hour car ride to where we're gonna camp. It's super slippery. It's all slick. So I don't know if it's just because I'm coming down from the adrenaline high or what but I am completely overwhelmed with how incredible this has been. I'm just so happy. This huge monumental part of history underneath my feet with no one else there just me and Justin and our guide. It doesn't get any more special than that. It doesn't get any cooler than that. Dang! Also check out how far in front of me they are. *laughter* They are so patient. Oh man I don't think I've ever been so happy to see a car my life! It's time for dinner and the guys are so hungry. I'm not hungry I'm just tired I wanna go to bed! Kungpao chicken and rice! Yummy! Okay so we also have eggplant with Justin: Cheers Cabbage with pork belly in it. Claire: This has the flowers in it and tomatoes and eggs? Peter: How does the soup taste like? Alright, I'm gonna be a baby I'm a child who is letting Justin carry my pack for me because he abandoned his pack for tonight. I put brand-new batteries in my headlamp before coming here and they're already empty so I don't know how the heck that happened. I'm using a cell phone like a millennial. Alright so this hike is supposedly 15 minutes? Oh man...there's some other tourists that are in the easy campsite to get to, so we're hiking to the next one I'm doing something, I don't remember what I was doing. I was dealing with my shoes or whatever, and you hear Justin go and I'm like &quot;That sounds magnificent, I don't want to pee on the Great Wall of Great Wall of China, I don't want to urinate on it. So I'm like okay, I have to pee off of it too but as a lady, haha, the logistics are a I have to pull down my shorts and then I have to grab on to either edge of this window it's basically this archway I have to grab either side of the archway and lean my butt over out as far as I can into the abyss so that I can assure that all of the pee goes into the ground and not onto the Great Wall of China. I like sitting here and thinking like, I kind of wish I was filming this. I kind of wish that there I'm very happy that there's not but I really could use a shower! We're here. We're going to be doing four We've only been walking for about two minutes and we're soaked in sweat. I've gotta take off this jacket. Today we are hiking the Huanghuacheng portion of the Great Wall of China and much of the hike is completely covered in dense brush. Peter, our guide, encouraged me to keep my jacket on to protect my arms from thorns and bugs but it was way too hot and too humid to be comfortable in my rain jacket. Thankfully I didn't get too scratched up and was actually quite comfortable. Justin: It's beautiful! *Justin coughing* This portion of the wall has been restored to a much better condition than the section that we hiked yesterday so we were able to move much more quickly. I'm so glad we got to experience both portions of the wall. They were so different from one A fter spending two full days on the we weren't left with enough time to go but I have no regrets about that Just in case you were fooled into thinking we're at the top, nope That's the top. Yes! Woo! It's downhill from here. Well this is adorable. Paw prints! Alright Justin tell me about your Justin: It wast awesome Justin: Me too. And then pork, right? Oh my gosh look at this food! That about wraps that up. we're very full...and then we're going to shower because that is the most necessary thing that could possibly happen right now. We are back! We made it!