Originally known as the MV &quot;Puerto Rico&quot;, the El Faro was Hull of Chester, Pennsylvania. Ownership changed hands multiple times. In 1991, the vessel's name changed to &quot;Northern Then in '06, renamed to &quot;El Faro&quot;... or &quot;The Much of this was essentially reorganizations out of Tacoma, Washington... eventually becoming Tote Maritime out of Jacksonville, Operated by Sea Star Line, a subsidiary of Puerto Rico, the vessel specs were... A Length of 790 Ft (241 M) A Draft of 20-29 ft ( M) the water line Shaft Horsepower to a single screw. This provided a top speed, in its original MPH - 46.3 KPH) 30 to 35 31,515), The El Faro had a Net Capacity, or (International 21,473) between containers It would have a replacement value of 36M USD This vessel, and her sister ships El Morro and Westward Venture all of the same era, A unique class of ship exclusively from Sun Built originally for roll-on/roll-off cargo. Under typical charters, Semi trailers, rather of cargo carried on the main deck. Ro-Ros, of all kinds, have been fraught with reasons. -Crews lacking in seafaring knowledge -Vessel Instability due to modifications Giving rise to the type's nickname in the While operating in Tote's Alaska routes, the (Still the Trailership - Northern Lights at determined was a MAJOR conversion in 1992. Atlantic Marine Shipyard in Mobile Alabama, mid-body insert that allowed more cargo on deck, referred to by the NTSB and Coast Guard level allowing more trailers to be carried. This required an offset of 1,830 tons of additional, form of iron ore filling two bottom tanks. The vessel would run Tote's Alaskan routes, As times changed though... the proliferation of the cargo container and quickly between ship, rail and road, became The monetary benefits, and in some ways, necessity the pressure to haul as many as possible, Many container ships of today were various demand. Bit of a sidenote here; prior to becoming in Operation Iragi Freedom in '03. The Northern lights, chartered by the US Military Stock, War Equipment and materials for rebuilding In '06 when the vessel's name was changed Line - Ponce Class Vessels) *MARINE BOARD REPORT PAGE 54-55 (MULTIPLE ETC) ...it would be converted from Ro-Ro, to Ro-Con Ship Hybrid of sorts...) the work performed With the mezzanine type platform removed, today's most common general purpose containers crucial to Puerto Rico's food-grade product Vehicle stowage would remain below, spread The main deck needed heavy reinforcement though containers for this now Lift-On/Lift-Off Configuration This added even more weight regardless of This and the additional Cargo carried on the further, requiring even more fixed ballast *Another* 4,875 tons of iron ore. However this time, the Coast Guard and its this a &quot;Major Conversion&quot; like they did with They'd intended to, when the project was initially Vice President of Marine Operations, sent According to the MSC... Quote: When a vessel undergoes a &quot;Major Conversion&quot;, be brought (back) into compliance with all Cont.: Given the potential cost and schedule that vessel owners seek a determination early Requirements like; conditions to length, beam, depth, height, lightship and on and on... It becomes obvious the short-term advantages The '06 modifications would... -Significantly Increase cargo capacity by an increase of over 2-ft closer to the water line due to the much lower ...All Major stability changes. Despite all this though, the MSC pulled their As was the case previously in similar conversions A Former master with 25 years experience captaining stated &quot;The Sea Star ships when you talk about So the containers were on the upper decks. And with a heavy load of cargo they would A tender ship is a little bit more of a different end quote. The differences between what's referred to world of seafaring, are quite substantial... From FAO dot org: difficult to heel and will roll from side (The terms Violently and Quickly used in this is so great that it happens immediately) and... &quot;A Tender Vessel will be much easier to incline The time period taken to roll from side to This condition is not desirable and can be of gravity.&quot; The master would go on to say; &quot;What I observed with the ship was a very You could feel the ship list... lean over let alone rolling with a heavy swell. And because it was slow to right itself, you And there's always a concern that she's not conditions.&quot; end quote. According to the NTSB's contact at Tote Maritime the '06 renaming and modifications anyhow. The vessel sitting mostly dormant from '08 for a Philadelphia route in 2010, a route El Faro back into mothball status. Being laid-up of course has a meaning that's Laid up vessels are those not underway, mothballed for extended periods, and so on. Basically in storage. While this is a simple definition, the process is actually much more complex and every vessel's some responsibly, some not so much... something that will play a crucial role later. The El Faro was brought back into service Morro and run Tote's weekly round trip between still on assigned to the route. Rarely do these incidents stem from a single to a single party entirely to blame... the a long chain of failures. In late summer of 2015 Tote was 2 years into Sea Star Line was planned to eventually be in the meantime, the main focus of leadership world first, Liquid Natural Gas or LNG Powered, &quot;Beautiful Island&quot; and Perla Del Caribe or The Ponce class fleet would take a backseat reassigning office &amp; engineering personnel, on the Marlin Class fleet. For example a &quot;Director of Safety and Services&quot; tasked with direct oversight of the LNGs as All of this left critical shortages in the and still bustling Jacksonville/San Juan operations In command of the El Faro at this time in 53 years old, was a man of commanding presence, of ship operations according to several colleagues. Known by some as a &quot;Stateroom Captain&quot;, one Davidson and his previous employer, of roughly 2013, the captain stating that he'd resigned. Others, reporting he'd been fired. Regardless, in a first for the aspiring captain, Later on When a large vessel under his command, steer under its own power safely, Davidson port... reportedly against the wishes of his he and Crowley parted ways. Starting at Tote as Third Mate in May of 2013, his first vessel command by that summer. The quote &quot;Sudden Termination of Senior Officers&quot; this opportunity for Davidson, until his command The El Morro scrapped soon after El Faro took In addition to the sudden termination of officers drama surrounding the Ponce fleet command The Ponce vessels earning a reputation of Marlin class vessels caused a good bit of manning the old fleet. In summer of 2015, two Ponce masters suddenly El Faro (each ship has more than one master, The master that resigned from El Faro stating that is going on aboard El Faro.&quot; This was amongst, around roughly the same -Chief mates caught sleeping on the bridge -Lax training, evaluation &amp; maintenance practices on all the older ships... it was beginning to take a toll on the entire standpoint. I suspect these were factors in El Morro's all of these older vessels were, tired. Tropical Storm Erika formed in late August, Faro chose an alternate route during a routine Captain Davidson, in an email to Management Bahama Channel enroute to San Juan Puerto Although this route does add an additional offers a safer sea passage compared to our end quote. This *would* cause a delay in delivery but Storm. Important to note here is that despite Tote's discuss later) and despite their reputation management would respond to Captain Davidson's &quot;Thanks Captain Mike. Good Plan. Stay Safe.&quot; Tropical Storm Erika dissipated on Semptember issue. The 2015 hurricane season though, wouldn't Monday, September 28, Docked at Blount Island The El Faro would offload mostly empty containers a near full load of cargo for the return voyage. Containers, Vehicles, Trailers and more... The crew consisted of 27 Sea Star Line personnel, to the El Faro. It was due to be sent back to Alaska routes deck, electrical and piping-work was being Performing this work was a group of 5 Polish crew&quot;, a group of contractors onboard since the vessel carried on with routine voyages. They would be supervised by an experienced on the riding crew total. This brought the total souls aboard the El Loading would continue the morning of Tuesday off duty El Faro second mate texted Captain forming north of the Bahamas. That afternoon, a Tote Terminal Manager on seen during a loading operation and that the Later determined to have been about 4 degrees, with the dock crews adjusting some loaded list. At 4:51pm, the National Hurricane Center announced becoming a hurricane the next day, Wednesday Followed by issuing a warning area across Bahamas. When asked by the off duty second mate at &quot;What's your plan?&quot; The captain simply replied he intended &quot;to would remain north of us.&quot; When pressed by the same second mate once &quot;We have routes&quot;, suggesting options like to be alternates to avoid storms, including if necessary. Although technically responsible for Voyage master review and approval to put them into 7:30pm, Tuesday the 29th and the El Faro was with... Refrigerated or &quot;Reefers&quot; -149 Vehicles -A few misc items like cargo on pallets or &quot;tank-tainers&quot; 11,046 tons of cargo total on board. By the time they pulled away, the Jacksonville Guard orders. The El Faro regularly made use of pilot services As they made their way toward open water, up in conversation, the storm building in &quot;We're just gonna go out and shoot under it...&quot; Captain Davidson responded. The pilot noticed no reactions to this from Nearing 11:00pm now and about an hour after in open water, the government of the Bahamas predicting Joaquin to take a West-Southwesterly By 6:00am, Wednesday the 30th, the Hurricane a warning for the islands' general area and Reserve, 53rd Reconnaissance Squadron dispatched WP-3D Orion, they would team up in monitoring As the ship steamed ahead on their typical Davidson and the Chief Mate discussed the The ship's on board weather system, the Bon updates to the captain's email every 6 hours. His latest update, at 5:04 am was consistent Hurricane Center or NHC, issued *late afternoon* The &quot;Cone of Uncertainty&quot;, essentially the project a hurricane to take, was now, very a swathe of ocean directly in the ship's path. But info used by El Faro in the BVS, if delayed the NHC's advisory number 6... errantly predicting their forecast corrections. The Ship's Sat-C terminal (a satellite terminal packet transfer) also received updates around storm's center, with reports of wind gusts The sun was rising and after reviewing this was heard saying, with a yawn &quot;Oh, look at Red in the morning, sailors take warning.&quot; Clearly not concerned with any of the weather He and the chief mate talked about a *slight* but still within or near their typical track. The captain, referring to the alternate, safer it... you can't run every single weather pattern.&quot; They also discussed frustrations over the It wasn't functioning properly according to time, and they did not find it reliable. A local anenemometer is crucial in that it localized info possible, on wind speed and Bridge crew discussed the storm further, the the possibility of Northwest Providence Channel Much like with Aviation's &quot;Cockpit Resource Bridge Resource Management, BRM, is the same It's an ongoing challenge in commercial shipping say in vessel decision-making and for masters input. Bridge and Cockpit Resource Management mean, one another's input and either decide collectively in charge, otherwise makes a genuine informed The opposite of an environment where &quot;What &quot;Resource Management&quot; quote/un-quote, while speak, is actually a big step towards effective, in the world of commercial transportation... it plays a major role in why modern, commerical It translates roughly to &quot;The team members Yeah, they likely know a bit about what's their input too!&quot; The ship had slowed slightly, down to 19.4 &quot;We're gonna get slammed tonight...&quot; said duty, the AB is the crew member actually at &quot;Yeah, I was thinkin that all through August,&quot; &quot;like it's been *too* quiet this season&quot; The captain overhearing this, admitting the Although he'd follow up with... &quot;Tough to plan when you don't know, but we (Referring to their slight southerly deviation) of the eye. We'll be about sixty miles south of the eye. It should be fine. We are gonna be fine -not should be- we are He'd go on to lament stories of his experience the close run in with Tropical Storm Erika, the sturdiness of El Faro's quote &quot;solid&quot; Davidson's presence was said to be very commanding company policies and safety training was completely training or initiatives. Not necessarily unique to Tote, an ongoing However, despite getting zero pushback from for safety during Tropical Storm Erika, the time at either 10:22AM, as the email itself with the NTSB stating 12:22pm in their report while timestamped as 10:22am so, I'm mentoining minute details I come across in these investigations how to present it). OR! The email could have been in a &quot;queue&quot; as sent out the next time data packets are sent. Anyhow; The email would go out with standard updates Hurricane's developments, the captain's intentions good speed&quot; and so on. No mention of changing course for safety's In fact, further confounding the investigation QUESTION on our return northbound leg to Jacksonville, ?&quot; To which managment promptly responded; &quot;Diversion Thank you for the heads up.&quot; Historically, evidence proves out the captain diversions, and without posing them as a &quot;request&quot;. Joaquin reached hurricane strength as early Now, investigators can only speculate what he'd request a diversion only for their return trajectory risked driving them directly into But one major difference in this journey vs had recently become aware or at least felt, on the line. Davidson had made clear, his desire to be LNG powered ships, one of those that would run. It's reported he was declined the position for a master position on the second LNG ship. It's held amongst investigators that his motivation was now much greater than before... regardless without questioning his authority. The captain and chief mate overheard that felt as though they were quote &quot;in line for Testimony from Tote personnel, pointed to over, in his first attempt, to Captain a new Behind the scenes, from everything I've gathered, upper management *were* reconsidering on his 11 interview to give the good news, in person, However, this was on record as being halted by Tote's Director of Labor Relations and was... -Negligent in some of the El Faro's critical -Neglecting disciplinary actions towards a sleeping on duty amongst teammates in the past. All of this led to Tote deciding against Davidson's hadn't yet made him aware of this second and It's possible being left in the dark, especially his negative outlook toward his future at The NTSB stating, quote: &quot;If the captain thought factor in getting the job, it might have affected He might have been more risk-tolerant...&quot; That same morning, El Yunque, about 330 nautical Jacksonville from San Juan, emailed Captain with the Hurricane out there. We sped up yesterday to get in front of it and tracking to the SW.&quot; The Captain Received this email at 10:02am &quot;I have been watching this [storm] system We did alter our direct route slightly more miles to the north of us at its CPA [Closest Fortunately we departed the dock in JAX on hurt either. All departments have been duly noted and we 1st.&quot; Their course change *would* put them to the would provide only a few moments of protection &quot;We're heading straight into a hurricane.&quot; Second Mate, Danielle Randolph wrote in an She would also be overheard on the bridge &quot;He's tellin everybody down there- ohhh, it's it's not even that windy out ...seen worse. I think he's just trying to play it down because ...saving face.&quot; The weather *was* relatively calm in their strength at an alarming rate. The captain would mention how &quot;erratic&quot; Joaquin much of this info delayed, but in all up to made the hurricane a significant risk along And to be clear, Joaquin did prove to be one National Hurricane Center's *Initial* Forecasts behavior. But by Tues the 29th at 11AM, Advisory Number NHC, showed a warning area that would potentially From then on, the warning area followed more from Tropical Storm to Hurricane. The captain continually pulled forecast and obsolete by several hours or more, instead investigators say would have been more timely. Yes, some of the info from warnings back on information, but a full day and a half is making the most informed decision. And Regardless, Joaquin was still a tropical The Bahamas, Turks and others, always on high Any vessel in open waters to their northeast, use of the many protective Lees these islands The second mate and on duty AB were discussing as the ships passed each other at a distance &quot;They're tryin to get away from the storm The second mate said. The AB replying; &quot;Nobody in their right mind 2nd Mate: &quot;We are [laughter] YAY!&quot; &quot;Seventy miles south of it.&quot; The captain replied, correcting the two bridge By mid-day, the hurricane was producing 70 About 2:30pm the bridge receieved two securite' from Coast Guard Aircraft. About as serious as warnings can get, the central bahamas and that all mariners should The captain did hear these and simply responded; But did not change course. Just north of Great Abaco Island at this time, to change course for one of their well known known as the &quot;Northeast Providence Channel&quot;. By 4:15pm the AB on duty asked if they might &quot;No no no. We're not gonna turn around, we're not gonna The Captain barked back. About 5pm and the bridge received an update Center provided an updated advisory; Joaquin gusts up to 90 knots. By about 6:30pm, now 60 nautical miles from and 180 nautical miles northwest of Joaquin's planned, slight course adjustment... one that would end up leading them, unknowingly than otherwise. Captain Davidson would leave the bridge at more than 80 knot sustained winds by this &quot;After he boarded the boat, he was in despair He told me it was dirty and hot because the He was happy that he had managed to get a He also said he had never seen or worked on While he was working, rust was falling into He didn't go through any training about boat He wasn't telling me about weather conditions During his voyage... there were two tropical storms I found out He was trying to calm me down, telling me and in such situations would always steer Spouse of one of the Polish crewman, in a From the NTSB report; &quot;Among the possible explanations for the captain's to *his* understanding of the circumstances, model'. A mental model is a person's internal representation Research has shown that people tend to seek From the beginning, the captain expected the would quote 'stay on the backside of it'... The NTSB went on to say... &quot;Another possible explanation is that the When someone has experienced a risky situation for that person to repeat the decision... End Quote. I'd also add that, it's possible his successful feeling like, what I'd refer to as &quot;overkill&quot;, Like several tornado warnings in a row in feeling annoyed, gathering the family and The same principle unfortunately, can apply All this in addition to evidence pointing info delayed by hours, rather than making date as possible. However, the choice to avoid Erika though, the caution displayed at that time, didn't up to the minute or critical last minute decision-making. Which would be evidence that the Captain *was* who knew him insist. But the Voyage Data Recorder or VDR on *this* it was out of character for him or otherwise. That day, Davidson had also spent time equivocating they'd be up against, comparing it to what He also lamented being aboard other RO-RO as well... failing to mention though, that encounters. If you're a fan of the channel, you know all the North Atlantic. As deadly as those Waters are, each set of size &amp; condition, the cargo carried, the types to change course. Every situation is unique. As night set in and the El Faro pressed on, themselves possible deviations, with those quarters. He didn't return to the bridge though, just need to remain on course and that he expected at the earliest. From the NTSB: &quot;The VDR transcript contains structure influenced the flow of communications. The helmsmen frequently voiced their concerns of the captain.&quot; &quot;It doesn't really feel like we're going in--near twenty knots.&quot; &quot;I don't, I might go and get him if he doesn't &quot;I don't know how he can sleep knowing all *Radio in Background: &quot;Mariners be advised 3&quot; &quot;Oh my god.&quot; When the second mate called down to the stateroom of the Hurricane's upgrade to category 3 and through, she hung up the phone, presumably, Turning to the AB at the helm... &quot;He said to run it...&quot; Driving directly into the storm now, the first 1:30am as they exited San Salvador's protective 55 knots with 14 ft swells. The El Faro also lost a bit more speed. At 2:11am the second mate noticed waves sweeping and the AB heard quote; &quot;Some Clanking going (Green Water is a nautical term used to indicate a large wave. Ship decks are designed to drain and shed So the amount it would take, to notice accumulation, By 2:15 still pushing the engines at or near about 16 knots. 35 minutes later and the clanking had turned the sounds of either containers falling or The off course alarm began to ring on the confirming they were being pushed off course The alarm was set to sound once the vessel The second mate made corrections to keep El At 3:44am the vessel had slowed to about 13 Around this time The Chief Mate would arrive After roughly 4 minutes of discussion between no sign of the captain, the second mate departed and family... With what the crew perceived was either a (And I say perceived because investigators WAS able to record wind speeds), the crew which directions the winds were pushing and keep the ship on course. The AB stating &quot;...it's hard to tell which I assume we're heelin' to starboard, blowin At 3:55am an assistant engineer from below seeing some electrical cords &quot;cut&quot; on the There were a handful of refrigerated containers about loosely throughout, were frequently Vessel speed soon dropped to 10 knots. When the AB asked the Chief Mate about wind We don't have any instrument that can measure The captain finally arrived back on the bridge about this ride... sleepin like a baby.&quot; The Captain and Chief Mate agreeing quote... &quot;This was every day in Alaska.&quot; With the wind and waves sweeping over the increasing in strength, the El Faro had developed gradually losing speed. The trailers carried below decks, on the Ponce gear after being uncoupled from a tractor. Instead, loaders lock the kingpin and rest a &quot;ROLOC&quot; box, with the tail of the trailer The ROLOC boxes are intended to be anchored socket fixed into the deck specifically for However some trailers would get loaded &quot;off the El Faro, there were too few of these sockets would carry. With a trailer landed off button, instead, standard lashing points. After investigators calculated, the trailers discovered to have been susceptible to breaking great enough. Anywhere from at least 3-40 trailers were free could have also caused a domimo effect All of the RO-RO vehicles aboard these Ponce of course on their lashings and the trailers both these models also rely on a minimum co-efficient they're in contact with. Once water accumlates on deck enough to interfere hold this provided, is lost, and the lashings making even a slight list to one side, a larger Many passenger vehicles aboard the El Faro, greater risk of breaking free due to being As the diagram illustrates, each vehicle should Either each tire wrapped or tow eye hooked integrated into the deck itself. However, as evidenced by the El Yunque, it haphazard method, of instead, running lengths because the deck had too few built in, and It speaks for itself why these somewhat loose than 4 anchors directly on deck. In addition, you can see the location these are lashed in this half-ass manner, deep in Likely the same practice aboard El Faro. As the vessel heeled to starboard and didn't sustained winds and swells blowing from port day whether seawater was already, slowly accumulating Seawater that could have downflooded via any We'll never know for sure if or where the list. But the Marine Board of Ivestigation and NTSB, of Sister ship El Yunque, soon after. Keep in mind, El Yunque was similar to El and maintained under very similar conditions... Floodwater could have slowly entered, initially, -Hull Breaches Due to Corrosion underway, potentially left open or just not -The Cargo hold ventilation system, with louvered led directly to bottom holds, a critical vulnerability the baffles due to being open or otherwise Former TOTE crew members testifying later, open unless there was an actual fire in the -In addition, downflooding created a possibility free down on deck 4 and damaging emergency If so, this would lead to seawater freely known in the industry, as the seawater &quot;Communicating&quot;. Generally speaking though, the 2nd deck on allowing seawater in, then intended to drain But to keep this deck watertight and prevent that allow crew passage via ladders, between closed *and* dogged. Dogged meaning, turning the crank wheel to If any of these scuttles weren't watertight, can then flood, essentially, all the way down, by design. Struggling to maintain course in the storm, 4:15am. Being pushed extra hard meant the engine crew this was a somewhat lengthy process and the until the procedure was complete each time. And, more importantly, the El Faro's main at the recommended 27&quot; minimum fill level... Because the levels were low in the main sump, be giving the crew in engineering, intermittent The oil system provided the lubrication needed gear. Keeping oil flowing, uninterrupted is crucial El Faro's was no exception. Should oil pressure be lost entirely, it would an irreparable, propulsion casualty.&quot; Additionally, if propulsion were to be lost, the mercy of currents, winds and waves. In the El Faro's case, they'd plunged, deep keeping a ship like this oriented, in any requires propulsion. There's just not enough steering authority Losing power, listing heavily and going adrift a storm of this magnitude. In the event of pressure loss, about 8 minutes into the main engine bearings. At about 4:34 am, the captain went to check The chief mate was soon on the phone with &quot;trailer leaning over&quot; on deck 2, forward them of issues with the quote &quot;list and oil With the Captain back on the bridge at 4:43AM in to the wind to help take the list off. &quot;The Oil Sumps are actin' up&quot; he said as he The vessel's speed dropped to about 7.5 knots. The captain went below again soon after to &quot;Getting conflicting reports&quot; he said, returning The captain had downloaded info via BVS likely 12 hours, weather reports from that previous The Sat-C terminal recently received advisories to real time and showed sustained winds of El Faro's current position... Joaquin's eye was now only 11 miles southeast. An update was made available on the BVS system the captain wouldn't end up downloading this The experienced Tote Engineer supervising about 5:10am, concerned about the situation, slappin around&quot; on deck 2. &quot;I've never seen it list like this - I've He said. Also aware of the low oil pressure situation, oil pressure. About 5:15AM, The Vessel speed, now down to Captain Davidson overheard saying; &quot;Only gonna side of it.&quot; At 5:30AM the Chief Mate mentioned taking speed had decreased to just over 4 knots. Soon after, the captain received an urgent to the bridge crew &quot;We got cars loose.&quot; &quot;So where's the water from, are we able to The chief mate asked from another phone. &quot;The only way to do a counter on this is to The captain, referring to the aft deep tanks, from starboard to port in an effort to correct The chief mate left the bridge with a radio At 5:52AM The captain received word from below a wide open scuttle on deck 2. He ordered the El Faro to come about even put the wind directly on the starboard side. A maneuver intended to enable crew access starboard scuttle, was now underwater. From the NTSB: service pump was located in the starboard, a forward trim would be the worst-case scenario would result in a loss of lubricating oil This decision by the captain, would unfortunately, had to stay afloat. The already intermittent power from the struggling list moved the oil sump tank into the worst oil pressure entirely. Putting the engine at risk of catastrophic on lubrication. Hold 3 was now flooded by up to 20%, this, starboard to port in the aft tanks just prior &quot;I think we just lost the plant.&quot; The Captain was heard saying at about 6:10am, the only speed registering on radar and the around by the conditions. By about 6:15AM, October 1st, fully engulfed by open ocean 15,000 feet deep... This tired, rusted hulk of a cargo ship was case scenario imaginable. The port side list would quickly exceed that For the next, roughly 45 mins the Captain and potentially others below decks... ordering back over to starboard, ordering quote; &quot;everybody over the phone with the engine room... &quot;They're gonna get that boiler back up online... any second.&quot; He stated in one of his calls. El Faro's bow was pointed northwest as the southwest at about 6.7knots... being pushed The ship's radar had also been knocked out At 6:59am, The first indication of any distress their quote &quot;Designated Person Ashore&quot; or The El Faro's assigned DPA was actually out In addition, according to investigators: &quot;No monitoring EL FARO's position in relation About 5 minutes later and he then phoned Tote's for a &quot;QI&quot; or qualified invididual: While the chief engineer called the bridge again and heard telling him: &quot;The wind is pushing us over, there's nothing She also suggested moving more ballast. Tote's emergency phone number was available later, personnel at these numbers weren't similar emergenices, like loss of stability, However, at the same time, Tote's Emergency in which to utilize the call center: -And Security Emergencies There were no instructions that investigators loss of stability, cargo shifting or abandon Tote's shortcomings aside and despite their In the moment, it is ultimately a ship master's vessel. The second mate, was finally instructed by at 7:12am. She'd actually prepared them at 6:31am but These messages contained; -Cargo Adrift -Vessel Position and Safety System and Ship Security Alert The distress messages were received by the in Portsmouth Virginia. Still struggling with damage control and insisting to be fine&quot;, the captain wouldn't ring the The port side had been swamped as the list The waterline was well over *all* of what on this side... overwhelmed and pouring in With reports of cars floating, quote; &quot;bobbing quote &quot;something hitting the fire main on deck 2, even reports of &quot;water sloshing&quot; in ventilation ducts. The engineering team scrambling to... -Pump out hold 3 ballast back and forth between the aft tanks -Stay in contact with the bridge engine itself back online At about 7:25am, a representative from Tote Center to report El Faro's situation. The Command center passed the info along to Florida. Based on the info he provided, District 7 call to update him: Since the should have taken place quite some time before The captain's insistence on either his mental just not understanding the full extent of aboard far too late in the process. In addition; the unfortunate, neglected state a rusty superstructure... safety equipment of an afterthought... -There were 2 open style lifeboats on Gravity only allowed (at least by US regulation) to And 4, 25 person liferafts, 2 on each side In the ship's state though, the starboard to the ship's list. Attempting to release either, it would be The port side group would have needed to be either that or boarded after individuals swim life vessels release and/or inflate on their -Immersion suits were located in each crewmember's at the bow and internal storeroom. A former Polish riding crew member, from an how they were never instructed in donning procedures in general. When the Tote riding crew supervisor called down into hold 3 through the scuttle above. Extremely concerned, he asked the captain &quot;I don't have an answer, I mean, we still This was around 7:25AM. The ship, 14 minutes away from being completely The Captain then notified the rest of the to *not* immediately abandon and then telling *has* their immersion suits.&quot; Keep in mind, in engineering especially, abandoning way up 3-4 decks. The captain yelled to the Second Mate The captain, apparently still focused on making &quot;We got containers in the water!&quot; He Yelled soon after, noticing the mayhem There was a sudden scramble for the next few to find life preservers and immersion suits. The second mate was the first to ask if she memorized their nearest location to the bridge. It's unknown if she was referring to gathering The captain shouting in the meantime; The Captain yelled and followed up... These were the final words overheard by the at 7:39am, Thursday October 1st. Now, VDRs cease recording data and audio once Their protective capsule, designed to withstand either releasing it to float freely away from in hopes to get clear. The El Faro's VDR was the latter type, breaking Instead, similar to a blackbox on an airplance, through only once it's recovered. The Emergency Position-Indicating Radio Beacon that it breaks free once the vessel is submerged. However, these are designed to float and begin earth orbit. The El Faro's version of EPIRB, designed to 2 miles accuracy. Low earth orbit satellites aren't everywhere over, within view, would be about 30 minutes The EPIRB only transmitted for about 24 minutes. In addition, the approximate 500 mile wide 4 status around the same time, with sustained Unfortunately, the storm was so dangerous immediate rescue just wouldn't be possible. The only craft able to deploy, toward the the emergency calls and messages, were the Of the 2 Over Flights, around roughly 10:30AM, weather, no visual assessment was possible At 11:06am Coast Guard Command requested the and proceed to El Faro's last known coordinates. Emerald Express, simply a modified landing having struggles of their own, in just trying and Crooked Islands. They attempted several callouts to the stricken hearing each other's radio calls, but nothing The hurricane would loiter and gain strength wind speeds of 130 knots. No one, not even the US Coast Guard, as brave less than 100 nautical miles of the last known Those that tried, a Coast Guard C-130, making feet and getting within about 100 miles of of Friday October 2nd. The aircraft sustained damage due to the weather, Florida. At 9:05AM, Coast Guard command would cancel for the remainder of Friday. The Coast Guard explaining that even if they of retrieving survivors at the current time, 140 knot winds. This would mean the aircraft would only be for example. In addition, there was no visual aid coming Due to drift, wind and waves carrying any position, no one yet knew precisely where Throughout Friday though, the Coast Guard in preparation for when the storm subsided... -Cutter Northland Sent to the US Naval Base -3 MH-60s throughout the Bahamas, Turks and -The Coast Guard C-130s already prepped and These were in addition to the other resources -US Coast Guard Cutters Resolute and Charles -A Coast Guard C-144 and MH-65 Dolphin and -Along with a US Navy P-8 Poseidon After 7 sorties after weather permitted, totalling 3rd, battling the still difficult weather no sign of survivors were found. A hurricane hunter spotted initially, a large of crooked island, 120 miles and 90 miles An MH-60 spotted an &quot;El Faro&quot; life ring amidst in the 1st debris patch. The next day, Sunday, October 4th. Cutter Northland arrived on scene at about 3 Tugboats chartered by Tote arrived to assist Jacksonville, would aid in search as they &quot;El Faro&quot; life ring. The Navy's P-8 Poseidon spotted what they out to actually be the El Faro's Starboard The Northland arrived at the first, about position... the ship's rescue swimmer approached, Cutter Northland would sink the empty liferaft A tugboat of Tote Maritime's chartered fleet, bow pointed up, the tug was too small to recover Tote would charter support vessel Megan Beyel Miami, for Coast Guard inspection. Investigators concluding through interviews was quote &quot;indicative of a fall and not of At 4:57pm still on Sunday OCtober 4th, The suit about 40 nautical miles west-northwest An MH-60 crew used the info and located the Their rescue swimmer found it contained human too far along for the swimmer to determine However, before they could haul the victim crew discovered another immersion suit about thought they may have also seen a person in The MH-60 crew pulled up their rescue swimmer near the deceased survivor in hopes to later The helo crew proceeded as quickly as possible but they were unable to locate them, unfortunately. And as night was falling, they attempted to but the marker had failed to transmit properly On the morning of Day 5, October 5th, the Target Attack Radar System aircraft was able of about 19,300 square miles at a time. This crew provided confirmation of all debris to be found in the search area. This gave the Coast Guard the confirmation and that it was now considered a Major Marine As conditions continued to improve, the P-8 in search of smaller objects. At an altitude of 2500 feet, the navy aircraft These flotation devices then recovered by Tuesday Day 6 - October 6th as the search the Cutter Charles Sexton recovered an empty Wednesday Oct 7th, 7 days in, after Searches retrieved another empty immersion suit but sightings. The search would officially be Suspended that Survival time in these conditions was estimated the 154 hour mark since the time of sinking. 50 Air and Surface sorties covering 195,601 The ship had gone down in waters 15,000 feet Eliminating the possibility of rescue diving Wednesday October 14, 2015 - the Coast Guard declared all 33 Persons on board the El Faro Another victim of Hurricane Joaquin was the But the Minouche was reportedly a 212 foot the storm off the coast of Haiti on October Fortunately, the reported 12 crew (some reports safely and were rescued by a US Coast Guard out to retrieve all survivors from their life 2:00am, on October 2nd. This area of the Caribbean was much less deadly Still, a harrowing rescue nonetheless. In order to make the El Faro findings possible, between the NTSB, The Coast Guard - Their family members, former colleagues, jacksonville on. The El Faro was at a depth too great to inspect Apache, with a ping locator, side scan sonar could at least get started. The Apache would arrive on October 23rd, with Data Recorder. The design of El Faro's VDR meant it should for this reason, but they heard nothing. It wasn't until OCtober 31st, that they finally Sonar. The debris field was vast with the main vessel Upon closer inspection though, they discovered This was a problem because the VDR was atop CURV-21's video footage was crucial to much to depart on November 15... the VDR and ship's The NTSB needed a dynamic-positioning vessel, and both remotely survey and stream live to operations. In a joint investigation including the University NTSB, Verizon, and the National Oceanographic would be available in April of 2016. Their ROV &quot;Sentry&quot; was able to expand on Apache's bridge mast and VDR nearby. A third mission though, in August of 2016 The Apache returned with CURV-21 re-fitted Data Recorder. The VDR provided the evidence needed to find on that fateful October Morning. The El Yunque also provided crucial evidence well concealed story to tell of neglect and The El Yunque coming under Coast Guard inspection the investigation but also found to be out to cargo hold 3 ventilation ducts within 30 The El Yunque soon transferred to Seattle Alaska service in March. It was audited again by the Coast Guard travelling half-measures that they just could not overlook. Uncorrected wastage, more corrosion, even still. Tote gave up and Scrapped El Yunque, The Anvil, This video has gotten extremely long so I upon the safety recommendations that came &quot;lessons learned&quot;... and more. In closing... Although Investigators will likely never fully Due to the... -Ships overall condition, being allowed to a secret training proper cargo arrangement, securing and overall -Due to an ongoing, demanding schedule of shifting company priorties left the vessels -Due to Poor culture in working environments to engage in Bridge Resource Management both in overall route and in response to conditions indifference throughout the night of September By the time the El Faro plunged directly into links, in this years long chain of failure, of making it through a category 4 storm... As the El Yunque passed over the El Faro's 10 days later on October 11 2015, a small Lighthouse Style Memorials can be found near the waterfront in the Port of San Juan. Supporters of this channel help make content goes out to those top tier Patreon Supporters; Nathan F Kenneth P Jenny E Andrew M Don't forget; You're Important &amp; Your Safety