Some say there has never been a chess player A leading Russian opponent described him as Fischer was not only known for being insanity. This video will take you through Bobby Fischer was born in Chicago on March mother from Switzerland born to Jewish parents. They were poor. Regina Fischer didn't even have the money a kid. Regina was divorced from Hans Gerhardt Fischer, But Bobby's actual father was most likely Nemenyi. A Hungarian-Jewish physicist. When Bobby was six, his sister Joanne bought He felt chess was more exciting than Monopoly And he found it far more challenging. His sister soon grew tired of the game, and and a nurse. So, Bobby spent several hours every day playing He loved the thousands of possible moves and After a year of this, his mother took him a couple of times a week from one of the club's Nigh-grow charged him a dollar an hour. But Bobby believes he wasn't in it for the lessons seriously. And apparently, he did. He was utterly obsessed with chess. One might even say it was his best friend. Fischer didn't have any real friends growing He thought having friends was only important to share them with. He had no secrets so, apparently, he didn't Fischer would spend Sundays playing chess Square Park. He began spending less time with Nigro when a master player who had once ranked as high Collins spent his life in a wheelchair. He never quite fit in, just like Fischer. He was careful not to say he was Fischer's That would be like saying someone had to coach He thought Fischer was a genius on the level Collins did have an extensive library collection five to ten hours a day reading and studying. He would need the preparation when he faced When Fischer was 13 years old, he faced 26-year-old America. Fischer played in black, Byrne in white. The "Game of the Century" - as it's October 17, 1956. Fischer's moves looked like lethal art. He even dared to sacrifice his queen. Fischer got a thrill out of breaking his opponent's His opponent was outclassed and outmatched. The game put Fischer on the map. The world knew it had a genius on its hands. The following year, when he was still only A year later, he became the youngest ever And in 1972, he defeated the Soviet Union's This was stunning: the Soviets lived and breathed They were more obsessed than Canadians are Then comes along a lone wolf from America institution. It was a David versus Goliath matchup. Bobby Fischer singlehandedly beat the Soviets This took place during the Cold War and the The world's two superpowers battled it out Except Fischer nearly skipped the "match He refused to fly to Reykjavik, Iceland for a guarantee of a slice of the lucrative TV U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger had He finally flew there after a British investment $250,000. Fischer was still in a foul mood when he arrived. He played poorly during the first match and He didn't even show up for the second match, him. So he lost automatically. The tournament organizers conceded to demands cameras in the room. From that point on, his playing got stronger. Fischer, the 29-year-old who dropped out of World Champion - single-handedly dismantling He became a hero to millions of Americans Some chess clubs saw membership double during He was a star and made the rounds of American On the Carson Tonight show, he showed off in 17 seconds. This was not very well mixed up. 17! Well, they didn't mix it up too well. He reportedly had an IQ of 181 which is said Although he scaled the heights of fame, Fischer He had a habit of saying controversial things he was the Cold War chess hero after all. This is what he once said about female chess Broadcasting Corporation. The women aren't really very good players. Why is this. Do women make bad chess players? Oh they're terrible chess players. I mean, some are better than others, y'know. Why do you think so? And they don't I don't know why. I guess they're just not so smart. Would you call yourself a misogynist? Excuse me, what's the definition of that A woman-hater. No. No? When it comes to chess, not too much. He managed to offend everyone. During an interview with a Philippine radio were "wonderful news. I applaud the act. The U.S. and Israel have been slaughtering years. I want to see the U.S. wiped out." He never hid his hatred of Jews, repeatedly Jewish ethnically. His anti-American, anti-Semitic comments coincided He decided the U.S. government was out to He also believed the Israeli national intelligence He refused to defend his world championship He complained that opponents were trying to he feared the Russians wanted to bomb his For years, Fischer carried a blue cardboard to say what was inside. Once, when he went to use a restaurant restroom, was with peaked inside. He saw a Bible. Religion appealed to his desire for logic Except he later cut ties with the Worldwide after complaining that Herbert Armstrong's become "zombies". He later cut ties with the organization. One of the surest signs of his mental decline fillings! a He explained that he didn't want anything in WWII who had a metal plate in his head His mental instability manifested in his physical Gone was the athletic young man who swam and requires enormous mental and physical endurance. He was unrecognizable. California police officers mistakenly arrested for robbery. He spent 48 hours in jail and wrote a book During his descent into madness, Fischer didn't year. But eventually, he had to. He had run out of money. In 1992, he agreed to a $5 million dollar Spassky in Yugoslavia. Except the U.S. government wasn't too pleased It defied UN sanctions against the war-torn Americans were forbidden from doing any business Fischer was warned he'd face up to ten years But he didn't care He won the tournament. Some believe he was coaxed into playing again who was also a chess player. She had apparently turned a pen pal relationship Although, Fischer claimed he didn't have He is said to have married a Japanese chess Japan for a few years. He reportedly hoped that as the spouse of he had been on the run from American authorities But his attempt to stay in Japan was unsuccessful. Authorities arrested him for using a passport He begged Iceland to take him in, the country Iceland welcomed him by making him a citizen. He would spend the rest of his days there So, what caused his spiral into madness? Some speculate that training in blindfold see or touch the pieces, so you're forced However, there were signs something was not Legendary chess grandmaster Mikhail Tal picked for being "cuckoo". Another chess grandmaster, Pal Benko, once it was obvious he was not normal. "I told him, 'You are paranoid,' and World-renowned chess grandmaster and psychoanalyst chess master that Fischer's mother had consulted son was too obsessed with chess and felt he Fine described how, when he "...I started was doing in school. As soon as school was mentioned, he became and promptly walked out. For years afterward, whenever I met him in as though I had done him some immeasurable In other words, Fischer reacted in a paranoid Perhaps school was a sensitive spot. He dropped out at the age of 16 to focus on He was always insecure about his lack of education when playing chess in order to look more sophisticated. Social skills were not his forte. When CBS' 60 Minutes spent his 29th birthday actually REFUSED it. Happy birthday to you. You were worrying about this? Why were you worrying about it? You know, first of all, I don't eat this Second of all, I don't go for these kinds Shall we take it away, please? Yah. It appears paranoia ran in his family. The FBI described Fischer's mother Regina on her. They had spied on her since the dawn of the The FBI suspected that the left-leaning political Both she and her then-husband had lived in The agency was also worried that the Russians Bobby's relationship with his mother was He resented her for abandoning him when he career. Although they hardly saw each other over the after she passed away in 1997 quickly followed Some believe their deaths caused him to lose Bobby's probable father was also believed Paul Nemenyi was highly intelligent. He even collaborated with Albert Einstein's Nemenyi emigrated from Hungary to the U.S. He reportedly walked around with soap in his dirty. Some speculate Bobby Fischer could have had is no evidence that he was diagnosed with It also does not appear that Fischer had any One can only wonder if his life would have During the last years of his life, he stayed Iceland's hospital for the criminally insane. Dr. Magnus Skulason stayed in hospital with Fischer passed away on January 17, 2008 and, were: &quot;Nothing is as healing as the human Coming from a man who shied away from social to hear. It was fitting that having fallen in love board, Bobby Fischer died when he was 64 years He asked to be buried as a Catholic. Bobby Fischer once wrote in an article for "With talent, study and a positive attitude, Yet he failed to live up to his own words. If Fischer had stayed in the game longer, Gary Kasparov - arguably the two greatest Though, they were 20 years apart. But it would never come to pass. The person who finally defeated Bobby Fischer When I work on documentaries like these, they I try to stay as energized and relaxed as by BiOptimizers. I had problems staying asleep and ever since from the start of this year, I've gotten Most magnesium supplements are synthetic or When you get all seven critical forms of magnesium body gets a serious upgrade so you can feel To find out more, head to magnesiumbreakthrough.com/newsthink My custom link is in my description and pinned And don't forget to use my promo code: NEWSTHINK10 Thanks for watching. For Newsthink, I'm Cindy Pom.