Quick quiz. What does this SpongeBob theory video joke, by the way. It's a legitimate question. our yellow porous friend? Well, obviously, clone frustrated online creators. Duh. Hello Internet. Welcome to the show that wants to see significant you know what? That's not true. It's an antiquated YouTube knows at this point if you care just ignore that subscribe button down stop it. Do not touch that. Subscribe A couple of weeks ago we started untangling Farms and ARG mystery that's hosted right here This Place Is Not Happy. Now, at first glance, HMF wide landscape shots of golden fields with grazing their services, corporate welcome videos full of know, the usual. You see, once you start peeling both the YouTube channel and its associated experimentation, deformed animals, human testing, simply known as Mother. Last video we began gaining access to the website's employee trial H0027 mutated too far, managing to escape So with a hyper intelligent monster on the we found ourselves looking through a second video the password to the company's R&amp;D this cursed company website to figure As soon as you land on the R&amp;D page, anymore. The soft colors of the employee replaced with just plain white By looking at the page, we can actually working on two major projects. The first Project Chimera. This is what we've been experiments meant to increase the amount be sent to Happy Meat Farms HR. They do into the test subjects. Where's that DNA from? would seem like not even upper level employees However, if you highlight that white redacted Why is no one good at their jobs? Anyway, It than Mother herself. It's her DNA that increased intelligence, and also overwhelming test subjects. Under the project summary provides some additional detail on the escaped YouTube videos. While the first two, an acidic Human subject, H0027 is still at large. H0027 stole files from the main server guess the missing files are the videos H0027 is the voice that we hear at The other ongoing R&amp;D project listed an effort to introduce diseases into the meat products. These diseases are population that Mother can later exploit And that's about it. Got to admit, for being two we still haven't broken into the most secretive where all the successful experiments go So something's got to be going on over there. subject H0027 gave us a final leaked video on the This Place Is Not A Happy YouTube page. Perfect. Finally, we get ourselves a sneak peek we're told that there are three rules anything. Don't look at anything. the video is a tour of the HR department And finally, have fun. Great to be in a positive abandoned. However, on the tour, we see lackluster birthday decorations, a creepy IT guy named Jared who works Like I said, all the normal office stuff. too. A room full of hair, walls of flesh, the tour ends with us getting to dine So it seems like that's Happy Meat Farm's biomass experiments to feed this giant, is this technically cannibalism? I mean, her own Does that count as eating yourself? have a part of me inside of them. I got to say. Then again, who am I to So who's the real weird one here? I guess it's own product. We're told once again that a video of Ramona Bynes, head of Happy Except something goes wrong, the video Now. This is huge. But using the identifying that we shouldn't believe Ramona, is what she says, that And secondly, that H0027, the person speaking to volunteer employee. She's Ramona Bynes herself. that conclusion either. When the deformed "I never wanted this to happen" appear that's completely in line with Ramona's original best quality of life. Later, when we visit the The name Ramona is posted over the bed, but detail right? This is Ramona's childhood details were all correct. It means She was captured by her own company. mutated beyond recognition, only to an exact replica, so that no one would Luckily, this real Ramona did manage to escape, expose their plots. And that's not all that we examination reveals pink letters that are written which gives us a password and access to On this page, we primarily learn about the Project Nightmare. We're told that Mothers Mazel tov to her. And that these children are It's left vague what the children host in order to reach their final children share the digested stuff and then be We're told that these children can't be willingly handed control by the host. a series of psychological torture that's meant The hair room? The flesh room? what exactly is being digested here? they've already broken down the what else is there to give? And what does any of Well, loyal Theorists. That's where the Right at the start of all of this, on there's a small blurb that mentions Happy Meat And these aren't just random made up names like with actual real world channels and videos that Critic, filmmaker Wesley Harold, Conspiracy Carl, It seems like they're connected to this entire exactly is going on here? To date, Alex Bale's largely how you'd expect, well-crafted looking at the exact sort of stuff Are the characters the result of atomic testing? are there multiple rulers of the sea? But from much bigger story start to unfold. At moments monster hiding in the shadows of his garage, a And we see that this title of Muse This thing in the shadows is the one that's Can we get one of those? One of those just deliver the scripts to us on a However, the Muse doesn't do it specifically raw meat. Yeah, about the totally worth it. Buy a bunch of meat It's at this point you know I got to call it out. fleshy tentacles and requires large Now, why would that possibly sound would welcome a script delivering Meat sees things differently. It's clear that he Not only do we see this in the narrative moments is even hidden in the channel's banner. That theorists know that black images are always worth the words "Don't feed the muse". Ladies and This is a whole separate, related ARG dedicated to make more and more SpongeBob theories despite YouTube channel banners have to be made to fit all So what you see by watching on mobile of the complete image on there. There's a ever really gets to see unless they're And even then, I don't know if I've ever pulling the entire banner image is a the source code and then find the Then you've got to fix the if you manage to do all of that with Alex's second secret message hidden there outside of Loyal Theorists. There's more than one Muse, Alex's fifth SpongeBob theory, he uploaded a did fine. 200,000 views. Which is great, at least that can get upwards of 10 million views. To the Cynical Critic real name, Mark Mayhew, did a it was and really pushing for Alex to just stick Admittedly, it's a really harsh review, but if you start to notice black liquid dripping from we see appear in Alex's fifth SpongeBob So it would seem that the Cynical Critic also wasn't Mark also one of the creators Now you start to see how these During the Cynical Critics "Responding to hate account. Based on the subject lines and the email backstory. It explains that his mother has lost He also appears to have had a falling because he started to lean heavily into clickbait someone or something has given him advice And wouldn't you know it? One email of raw meat. Looks like someone ignored after that, we see a notice that Anthony has Happy Meat Farm emails, wanting friend's untimely disappearance. It is story becomes even more explicit with his an instant classic" here Mark's reviewing a HMF Entertainment. Happy Meat Farm we see the cynical critic trying to escape A tentacle launches out from the darkness Cynical Critic, ending his video, And, while I could tell you what you're to you. If you stop the video at 7:09, you "Phase three complete host assimilated, And you see, this is Project Nightmare, hosts who then go on to manipulate other hosts. the pressure to earn money while his He kills his partner in a disagreement. ultimately push him into willingly he's left there on camera as a smiling, posing It's the exact same thing that we saw happen They're consumed, digested, assimilated head for the camera, a smiling head that That's why Mark's reviews openly attack and The Muse is trying to break down Alex, get him resisting for a long time, even Alex succumbs. shot is of him being consumed, literally eaten by is gone. Only the SpongeBob guy remains. Now, hidden throughout both Alex and Cynical Critics Conspiracy Carl, Paradox 1313, Sonic the of them require ciphers. Others require you to that appear on screen. But all of them refer planting spores, eventual digestion, Farms website. And speaking of that website, ARG's were connected, I decided to check just like it did for Alex Bale's channel. And usually is, there was a mutant cow and the Boom! case closed Theorists. These YouTubers the Muses. So knowing what we know now, I I'm supposing it's passion? creativity? for various reasons, sought fame and fortune, clickbait content. They got their success, but in one specific type of content has caused clone who's successful but really is just a videos not because they want to, but because All of it in service of a greater powerful With one final upload coming in 2023 to end the conclusion. Sure, Alex is going to manage to get for himself. But that doesn't mean it's going to still going to remain. Happy Meat Farm and Mother new creators that are going to make the stuff that they can put higher paying ads on in viewers still stick around for the content that the question he's going to ask. And that's the take anything away from this episode, it's that we can point fingers at YouTube and the algorithm But those systems feed off of us, the viewers. we're talking about shorts, in which case that favorite creators tries to make something The first time is going to be a we allow them to keep going to hone You want proof? It's right here in these The puzzles, the story, the message. All of it from what people expect of Alex's usual content. support for it, you can literally see the quality, So do your part and at least try to whatever they decide to do, because you might get out of it. And Alex, go I'm looking forward to the big conclusion going to be plenty of meat on the if you get bored, you could always But hey, that's just a theory, A If you're already subscribed to the many people invested in what we do here you by helping you guys invest in other And it's. All thanks to today's sponsor public.com look these days, I'm constantly being online controversy kicks off. We're told that Elon Musk makes a tweet. Suddenly, every are going up. I mean, watching Mark fire of burning cash is probably the But while we may be constantly exposed to the idea of investing in stocks that money that you're putting on the line. I was but you see that's where public.com can actually that helps people be better investors. educate and inform everyday people to make allow you to follow other investors by watching other people before I'm on there. Just search for @matpatGT to follow and using the information You'll be able to make smart decisions So if you want to get started, then you. If you go to public.com/matpat or you description and create an account, you'll And I'm sure that some of you out there about this deal sooner. I've been trading stocks friends, because public.com's got you When you sign up, you can get up to $10,000 when depending on the amount. So not only stock just for signing up, but you to $10,000 if you're moving your you get to keep all your current investments. So there's really no reason not to go just check out the description down