- Grief, more times than not, that's how it starts. We think, just yesterday, just last night, just this morning, I talked to him. Things weren't like this. Man, the news can hit us in a way that leaves us shocked, surprised. I remember, it was April 19th and my mom called. Her and my dad were on the way to Duke which, for a procedure which doctors said was routine and outpatient. They weren't worried about it. Dad wasn't worried about it, but Mom had been worried about it. So she said, hey, do you want to drive up and meet us somewhere on And I was thinking, like, oh man, that's about two hours there, two hours back for about Why don't we FaceTime, Mom? We could talk. I call you, we could pray a couple times on the way. It'd be even better, right? So I called and we pray a couple times. They finally get to Duke and do all the check in stuff. A couple hours pass and I was expecting the call to say hey, Dad's out, just wanted you And when Mom called, man, I couldn't understand what she was saying. Dad had had a brain bleed. They had to do an emergency craniotomy to give his brain some space, but he was there at I just couldn't believe we'd talked, he was joking, I was praying with him. Like, seriously? Well, almost eight months later, to the day, Dad passed away, went on to be with the Lord. Mom had been his primary caregiver. They had moved from several ultimately to our house and along the way, I thought we had kinda started grieving. We'd been praying for a miracle, believing that God could do it, but with each passing holiday or event that Dad used to be a part of, realizing that he couldn't be a part of it and things didn't seem to be progressing in the way that they thought, we thought they would. I felt like we were grieving a little bit along the way even though But man, in the two months since his passing, it has been a tough season for our family. In fact, just this past week, my mom said, hey, I just want you to know I'm really struggling. When I close my eyes, all I can see is your dad from the last year. And all I want to see is Just the week before he passed, they celebrated their and Mom was like, I want to remember all of the good years but all I see is the year where I was his caregiver. I don't want to lose those memories. You know, by definition, grief means deep distress, an unfortunate outcome, a cause for suffering. The words are true, Webster maybe pulled a committee together and said, hey guys, we this emotion in which none of us have ever actually felt, right? If I were to describe I think it's the most confusing, painful emotion that there is. It carries with it a heaviness that you just can't sit down. It's not as much a burden that you carry as is it It's all-consuming. There's no escaping it. It impacts you mentally, emotionally, physically, spiritually. It can keep you awake when It can make you feel like going to sleep in times that you need to be awake. It can cloud your thinking, lead to poor decision-making and wildly impacts your moods. Lots of highs and lows. Grief is a global certainty. It crosses over language barriers, cultural differences, It doesn't favor race or genders. While there are many people in this world who will never taste or really grab hold of peace or experience a season of happiness in their lives, every single one of us will experience grief at Jesus said it this way in John 16 there on your outline. Here on earth you will have Oh, and welcome to Seacoast, by the way. My name is Josh Walters. (congregation laughing) (laughing) Some of you all are thinking like, for real, Walters? I brought a friend today. (congregation laughing) (laughing) You're not like this. I know, there's nothing fun about grief, but man, just stick with me. So listen, by testimony, how many of you, here at Mount Pleasant, at one of the distant campuses, or online, how many of you would say that you have a testimony of having experienced in your life? Every hand, man, we all have, to some degree. Well for the last few weeks, called This is Us, where we've been looking from the popular television show. Grief is an unwanted emotion that seems to make an appearance in just about every episode. In some episodes, it's in the death of Jack and Rebecca's when it was born. In others, it's in the due to his struggle with alcohol or Randall's father, William, and his struggle with cancer, or ultimately Jack's death himself. In other episodes, it has to do with Kate and Toby's miscarriage of Kevin's divorce or in the death of Annie's pet lizard. (congregation laughing) Death, you all laugh, that's serious for an eight year old, you know what I'm saying? I think part of the so powerfully is because of how gracefully it tells the story of grief. For some reason, we can sense and because of that, it brings This past Monday morning, I Googled This is Us grief video. I wanted to find what from the show that would and that led me to searching This is Us grief Randall, and after about three hours, I had seen every of pain before lunch, right? I had cried every tear I had in my body. I was starting to feel (congregation laughing) I realized that I hated this message, I hated this series and I wanted to punch (congregation laughing) You know, all before lunch is just where I was at. When was the last time You know, we're quick to with the loss of a loved one, which is true. It definitely is, but by definition, deep distress, an unfortunate outcome, that could be brought about by a lot of different circumstances. Maybe for some of you, All of your life, you've a pilot, a soldier, a fill in the blank, whatever that was for you. And just before grabbing you learned something. For some reason, it wasn't That was Pastor Michael's story here at the Mount Pleasant campus. All of his life, he had He had prepared for it, and just as he was entering flight school, he had a physical and learned that he had a medical condition that was gonna keep that for him that he was unaware of. Now for any of you at this Pastor Michael, man, praise God, that he didn't become a pilot, right, that God had other plans for him. But whatever the case, or grab hold of a dream it can cause us to enter Maybe for some of you, of starting a family and you find the right guy, than you were expecting, right? They're hard to come by, just kidding. And you approach this thing God's way. You pray about it. You go to start a family only to realize that inside of you that you weren't aware of and that you weren't going on your own. Or maybe it's even a good thing, right, you raise your kids up to of the house and now your last kid is going off and moving out, and as excited as you are about it, you're starting to have of what this empty nest It means the kids are gone, there's some grief that comes with that as to what it now looks like Things are gonna be different. What's interesting about grief It's not difficult to identify emotions like anger or sadness. In fact, all you have to do is stand out in the parking lot here at and peer in the window of cars passing by, you know, to pick up on some anger as people are trying to But anger and sadness are that someone is going through grief has and what they would describe Man, that's been my life Not to mention how I feel Man, he was our boys' hero. We have four boys and man, He would drive into town to go on their school field trips with them. He would drive up for rec He would surprise them, pick them up for school, He loved to snuggle and He would do the same with our girls. Him and my mom would drive along with the couple of their friends and they'd drive up to for the weekend. My dad spoiled Katie. We would go to see them and we would go to leave and and grab her hand to say something sweet and there would be a transfer a tightly folded wad of twenties. (congregation laughing) It used to be my money, right? (congregation laughing) At some point, there was a transition and he started giving it to her. Thankfully she was a good and I'd say, so what'd he give you? I saw that. (laughs) (congregation laughing) Or Dad would call me and say, him and Katie talked and so he would call her and she would be looking or in some furniture store and Dad would eventually call me to say, hey listen, I've been thinking about as much as Mom and I are I need something comfortable to sit on. Will you go to this place Just put it on my card. I'm like, what? I want stuff too, you know. (laughs) (congregation laughing) Buying everything for Katie. Used to be my deal, you know? But he was a giver, a lover. Man, it's been hard for us to get used to living in a world without him. It's been equally difficult for us to have grace for one another. Every night, going to bed, our boys want to hear Pepaw's stories. It's like, man, I've to tell about Dad. Now I just kinda make up they might be true about him, you know. (congregation laughing) Katie and I are tired. It's like we're short with each other. Find ourselves arguing and frustrated and questioning like, And we have to keep reminding ourselves that man, we're in a season of grief. Something that was very and still is, but isn't in the same way. And we're in a season of grief. We have to have grace for one another. Well, for the last 50 years, counselors and psychologists people's response to grief as a result of a book written in 1969 by a woman named Elizabeth Kubler Ross. And when she wrote a book that identified five different stages or categories of grief there at the top of your outline I want to take just a First of which is upon experiencing a loss of some kind, we can enter into a season much like we saw of Randall in the video. You know, just the night before, Dad was playing the piano and singing. He was fine. There's no way his I don't believe it. Or maybe you get a hard like, man, I've eaten healthy, I get good sleep, I drink enough water, I've worked out my whole life. There's no way I have cancer. Or we'd gone on date nights, we go to marriage There's no way my spouse A season of disbelief and shock. Ultimately, as reality starts man, this is my life. This is my reality now, it can give way to anger. You're mad, I've seen this but I never imagined And because you're mad, on the people that are closest to you, that are walking through That anger can give way to bargaining, as you ask a series of if-only questions or statements. You think, well if only a second opinion, or if you only I would If only I would have loved him better. If only we would have eaten healthier or exercised, than maybe things And that can bring on incredible guilt because you take on responsibility you were never meant to carry, thinking that in some way, had you lived differently, been different, you could but you couldn't. Because of that, man, it can bring about incredible depression, a sadness, a sorrow that you just can't climb out of, feeling responsible for the But ultimately by the grace of God, it would give a way to a where you embrace the mortality and inevitable future of yourself or a loved one and that it brings about more stable emotions in your life. Those stages don't necessarily happen in that order and the intensity changes for whatever the loss or grief might be. But if you think about the in your life in light of those stages, is there one or two of to hang out on? Any places in particular where you found yourself getting stuck or maybe you just avoided entirely? It can be hard for any one of us walking through those stages, but can you imagine for a family, for all of those stages to be processed together Well today, I'd like for us to look at a passage that in many ways resembles my home for the last few months. The Apostle Paul is writing in Thessalonica and the people there have experienced some loss of loved ones. They're going through some grief and the Bible doesn't tell us exactly what was happening relationally, but because they're people, who were sad and depressed, there were others who were shocked. While some might have been there were others who and man, when they came So Paul writes them a letter in their grief, to say, here's some steps that you can take that lead to life. It's found in 1 Thessalonians It says this. So what can we learn from this passage? If you find yourself in a season of grief, which Jesus promises that we will all have at some point, what are some thoughts that lead to life? The first of which is I should grieve. I should grieve. Now on principle, I don't think any of us disagree with this, but my do you actually do it? Do you actually do it? You know, if you receive news that a loved one has wherever you are, you know, at the office or work, you would head home, emotional, you would call family. If they lived out of town, you would at some point get online and maybe purchase airline tickets or start packing up bags so that you could drive. You meet up with family and you cry together, you You begin preparing for a visitation and a memorial service. Maybe you stay a couple days afterwards because you've gotta do regarding their possessions, an estate or clean some things out. Whatever you might do. You fly home on a Sunday and somehow by Monday, you're supposed to step back into life as normal. Show back up at work when is just beginning and life is gonna look anything but normal. So the question for us then is what does it look like for me to grieve? If I'm supposed to in losing a loved one or in realizing of dreams that aren't what does it look like for me to grieve? Well biblically, there's there on your outline And as we read through to just listen for any that you can underline once we get through them. The first of which is when Jacob died. It says, and the Egyptians When they came to the which is beyond the Jordan, they lamented there with a very great and grievous lamentation, and he made a mourning When Aaron died in Numbers 20, it says, and when all the congregation saw that Aaron had perished, all the house of Israel When Moses died in Deuteronomy 34, it says, Moses was 120 His eye was undimmed And the people of Israel wept for Moses in the plains of Moab for 30 days. Then the days of weeping and In 1 Samuel 1, when it says, then David and tore them, and so did all the men who were with him. They mourned and wept for Saul and Jonathan and his son and for the Lord and the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword. It's like, man I looked hard anywhere in this message and this passage was one of them. It's like in each of about David and Saul's story, David was anointed to be king. Saul was a wicked king, but David had worked hard to honor him. It's like, in each of these passages, you see 30 days, 70 days, seven days. Well, when King Saul died, David said, you know what, I so between lunch and dinner, you guys rip your clothes and be sad. Then we're gonna party. (laughs) (congregation laughing) For the next four hours, So what kind of themes did you see? What common language stood out to you as we read those passages? For me, there's four different things that come to mind that I think can serve as a helpful If you've got a pen, I'd encourage you to write these down. They're not on your outline sheet. The first of which is we have to be attentive to time. Attentive to time. In each of those passages, they allotted a certain for their grief. And for any one of you, grief is directly So the grieving widow is gonna grieve much than her best friend, right? Her friend is gonna hurt The widow is gonna hurt 'cause her soul has been ripped in half. Whatever the case, we a people, a community who for their pain and grieving. For Katie and I, every time we butt heads or gets frustrated with each other, it takes some time for us to remember, oh yeah, we're in a season of grief. So when you experience a it's important that that you give yourself the grace needed, 'cause your body's gonna that you don't get to control, with fatigue and emotions, highs and lows. You have to be attentive to time, remembering that you're Second, we have to present mentally. Present mentally, not but making a decision to this season of grief. Oftentimes when you receive hard news of a diagnosis or a loved one that's lost, it wasn't a You're thrown into this season of grieving where you feel powerless. You don't have any control while being present mentally and says you know what, into this season. I'm gonna allow myself that I need to to ultimately bring me So we have to be attentive Then we have to be available emotionally. For some of you ladies, for you than it is for the guys. For us to be available emotionally, man, we can feel like We need to be strong for our families, we need to be strong for our kids. I'm supposed to be strong for the other people around me, and so being strong looks like not being emotional, not crying, not doing so many of the things that our bodies need to do to help us experience You have to be available emotionally. Just say, you know what, I'm making a decision to give myself over fully to grief, to allow my body to feel the things that it needs to. Lastly, we have to be engaged spiritually. What we saw with King David and is that in that window of time where they mourned and grieved, they fasted as well. The purpose of fasting is the breaking down of our flesh for the building up of our spirit. God, what do You have for me in this? Turning to God, seeking Him and in any moment or in your life, the Bible to the brokenhearted. He saves those who are crushed in spirit. If there's ever a time where you can be certain that God is close to you, it's in your greatest moments of pain that it's important that Okay God, what do You have for me here? When I think about the last I attribute my grief We have a very full life. Man, we'll work a full and then go home to a full night. With six kids, there is a sporting event, and we enjoy staying busy. Well, Dad passed away on December 22nd and our offices are closed and New Years because we have (congregation laughing) So we were closed that week. The first week of January, right, where kids were out of school. It was like, even Starbucks was closed. So nothing good was And so that whole week kinda Couldn't really get out and so we stayed in pajamas and watched movies and talked and had down time. Well then the next week, Katie and I had a 15th anniversary trip. Our anniversary was actually and so we had canceled that trip sensing it was close, put and had some extended time away. And as I looked back on it now, I had three weeks of time just carved out that I wouldn't I think my life would have looked like stepping back in to the and not really processing or grieving the way that I needed to. But God was, man, just so kind in giving me the time with Katie, with our kids, and with It's important that I grieve. When you experience a loss of some kind, a relational loss, a dream, that we set aside time for that He desires to do. Secondly there on your outline, I should grieve in community. In community. Again in principle, I think we do this, but I would say that we're really good at the initial response, right? When you hear about a friend of yours who's lost a loved one of some kind, we're quick to an email, a phone call, stop by their house, send them flowers, take them a meal. Something to say, I'm praying for you and I'm with you. The challenge is that It's never a meal. It's always a season and at some point, it becomes the hurting to reach out to others When as a community, we have to remember that the call for us is to walk with brothers and In This is Us, Jack and Rebecca, when they were pregnant with triplets, they lost the third baby upon delivery. They ended up adopting an abandoned child that was there at the hospital and when they get home with three babies, Rebecca has this point with the weightiness of She doesn't tell Jack where she's going or if she'll even be back. And when she does show this is what happened. (mellow music) (baby crying) - You know, I didn't know where you were the last four hours. - I know, I'm sorry. - I thought you ran off to - I would never run off to Mexico and abandon the kids without you. - Promise? - I promise. I can't stop thinking about I can't. I know, I know we have these new babies and I should be happy, but I just can't stop thinking about him. - Me too. - Yeah? - Yeah. It's all I think about. You know, I feel, I feel guilty when I think about him and then, you know, I feel guilty when I - Me too. I thought it was just me (scoffs). - No, it's me too. (mellow music) - I love you. - I love you too. - You see the relief in her face when she realized she wasn't the only one feeling that kind of guilt and grief? She said I thought it was just me. Can you imagine what their life would look like had they where they realized that the same pain? It's like at some point, would have turned into anger or sadness. They would have done maybe through alcohol or medication. Whatever the case, it conflict in their home and they would have taken when really, all they A willingness to grieve in community and talk with each other Jesus knew that we were in our grief, and because of that, when He was on the cross, looking out over people, He saw two folks, both that were gonna need And in John 19 there on your outline, this is what it says. When Jesus saw His mother there and the disciple whom He He said to her, &quot;Woman, here is your son&quot; and to the disciple, From that time on, the disciple took her into his home. What Jesus was saying in your pain, I need you than you've ever been. I need you to love one So the question for us then is what does that look like? A good example is in Job chapter 2. After hearing that his wife and family had been lost, that Job was hurting, his friends go to see him. And there on your outline, it says, when they saw him from a distance, they could hardly recognize him. They began to weep aloud and sprinkled dust on their heads. They sat on the ground with him for seven days and seven nights. No one said a word to him, his suffering was. Now just as a side note in grief, if you have a friend that's hurting, tearing your clothes and showing up dirty, I'm not letting you in (congregation laughing) Unless you have a lasagna, Then maybe, all right. You could read that passage and think, well, his friends didn't but I think they knew When someone is in that kind of grief, you're not gonna be able to offer words that lead to life, but, man, there is a ministry to presence. A burden shared is a burden lightened, and just sitting there with him silent, communicated without communicating that I'm here for you, that I love you and that you're not alone. Romans 12:15 says it this way. Rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. Man, there's a number of reasons why we don't do this in a prolonged manner. First of which is just because when we let everything That's why they call It's like, it doesn't how pretty you are, when you're willing to let And so you think, well, at the house. I'm still not all put back together. I'm gonna take another day off work. I don't want anybody to see me like that. Our temptation is to isolate and withdraw when the reality is My seven year old, Asher, man, he's got all the words, right. He's a storyteller. And the truth is always of whatever the story is. Lately, he's been telling us that his friends weren't playing with him. He hasn't wanted to go to school. He's always loved school, been like the class clown but lately that just hasn't been the case, and so this past Monday, Asher had isolated himself from the class, and a couple of his and they said, Asher, why And Asher's response is, in my life? And all this time, like, I haven't known what the but the truth is he's And he doesn't know how If there's ever been a man, it's the playground. He's never met a stranger. He knows how to be silly and have fun, but he finds himself in a place where he's had fun in the past unable to have fun now, because of the feelings of sadness. And so, he's isolated. Man, whether you are seven or 57, the temptation in the midst of pain is gonna be to remove but the truth is, we need So it's important that Lastly there on your outline. I should grieve in community with hope. With hope, what does that look like? 2 Corinthians 1:3-11 It says, praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the God of all comfort. This is the money verse. Who comforts us in all of our troubles. He's not the dad that says, Your knees aren't even bleeding. It was just a fall, you're okay, you're not hurt. You know, that's what I do. That's not Him. Father of compassion, God of all comfort. He deploys them in our times of need. Comforts us in all of our troubles. Why, so that we can comfort those in any trouble with the have received from God. What that means for each of us in a season of grief or pain or loss, why is it Because when Father God there's gonna come a point later in life where He uses the same not to comfort somebody in my own knowledge, in my own ability, but to comfort them with the very comfort I received from God. That means there's purpose to your pain, whatever it may be that if you'll be present mentally, engaged emotionally, if to this season of grief, to bring about good in For just as we share abundantly so also our comfort If we are distressed, it is If we are comforted, which produces in you patient endurance of the same sufferings we suffer. And our hope for you is firm. Why is it important that 'Cause in our pain, it can be We need people around us that won't let us get stuck in Won't let us hang too long You're gonna feel the same pain tomorrow that you did today if all We walk through our grief with people so that they can help us move along, 'cause their hope can be firm for us when ours is not. Our hope for you is firm, because we know that just as so also you share in our comfort. We do not want you to be uninformed, brothers and sisters, about the troubles we experienced in the province of Asia. We were under great pressure, far beyond our ability to endure, so that we despaired of life itself. Indeed, we felt we had received the sentence of death. And for anyone who's in their life, man, that sentence best captures it. It felt like I had received A sorrow had come over But this happened, he says, that we might not rely who raises the dead. If you ask yourself, why am I still here? Why did this happen to me? Why do I feel like I've It's so that you would rely on God. So that you would lean into Him, the God who raises the dead. He has delivered us, He has delivered us in the past. He will deliver us in the future. On Him, we have set our to deliver us, as you Then many will give thanks on our behalf for the gracious favor granted us in answer to the prayers of many. I should grieve in community, with hope. Man, we live in a world today where we are surrounded by sorrows, bombarded with tragedy. You barely have time to grieve after hearing about one or personal tragedy with news of another. Man, apart from the hope of Jesus, our world is a mess. How do we find hope? For many of you today, here at Mount Pleasant, we're gonna sing a song and the opening lines of that song say are you hurting and broken within, overwhelmed by the weight of your sin? Jesus is calling. And church, today, it's that if you're hurting the loss of a loved one, a dream or vision for your life that you've been preparing for that you've realized isn't gonna be yours to Man, we worship a God who If we'll allow ourselves we can find hope in Jesus. And for many of you today, I'm praying and believing you're gonna find that hope, maybe for the first time. Maybe it'll look like you becoming part of the family of God, praying a prayer of faith, saying God, I don't have I want to receive the that You would send Your for my sin, that by making a I might have eternal life, acknowledging that Paul said to be absent with the body is Jesus said to the thief on the cross, today you shall be with Me in paradise. By making a profession of faith in Jesus, we don't have to live as a people who have no hope. That's the point Paul was making here. Don't grieve as people who have no hope. Man, as believers, don't to overshadow the promise of eternity. There's so much about our but where we spend our eternal home is one that we can lock down today. And I'm praying for many of you that'll be the prayer you pray. For others, maybe in your grief, it's time to take a and today we've tried to do that as easy as we can. All you have to do is text the word GRIEF to 320320. We believe God presses in in our pain and we want to be a church whatever that might look like. There's many different small But all you have to do is text GRIEF to 320320 and your campus pastor will follow up with you It's important that I grieve in community, with hope. Let's pray. God, I thank You so much that You are the Father of compassion, the God of all comfort who draws close to comfort And I pray for everyone under whether it's a pain and a grief that is raw and fresh that we're very much in the thick of today or maybe one that happened years ago that we suppressed or stuffed down and have never really leaned into You on. God, I pray that our hearts that we would encounter You as the God who loves us and is crazy about us. God, would You lead us Would You usher in healing in our lives today? We pray in Jesus' name, amen.