Today, the name Vermeer instantly conjures an known as the &quot;Mona Lisa of the North.&quot; The 17th girl, sublimely glancing at the viewer from pearl upon her lobe, has become a universal Vermeer's career was devoted to exploring tender interior spaces of both mind and environment that his mastery of pigment and light elevated the providing an inimitable glimpse into the Johannes Vermeer was born the in the mercantile middle-class family. His father Reijnier Jansz and then art dealer. His mother Digna Baltus is to her ability to sign only an &quot;x&quot; in place Despite the painter's popularity during his life, history. In 1625, before the painter's birth, manslaughter of a soldier following a brawl at was granted owing to the familiarity between the St Luke. The painter's maternal grandfather was Little is known about Vermeer's education and an art dealer and connections with local artists as a painter in the mid 1640s. However, his that the Delft painter Carel Fabritius served as Fabritius only entered the Guild of St. Delft's most prominent painter, has also is documentary evidence that the two artists young Vermeer; however, there is nothing that In 1653, Vermeer registered as a master painter in of opportunities, patrons, and connections Vermeer married Catherina Bolnes, the daughter both sets of parents being resistant to the the wedding went ahead after Vermeer's efforts to prove his devotion to Vermeer painted Christ in the House of Martha of a Biblical narrative. His marriage the social scale significantly, and it is contact he had with his family while living Christ in the House of Martha and Mary housed in the Musee des Beaux-Arts, Valenciennes. Jesus that appears only in the Gospel of Luke, 10:38-42. Jesus visits the home of the sisters Mary of Bethany, the latter typically conflated in According to the Gospel of Luke: As Jesus and village where a woman named Martha opened her who sat at the Lord's feet listening to by all the preparations that had to be don't you care that my sister has left me to do Martha,&quot; the Lord answered, &quot;you are worried and needed. Mary has chosen what is better, In the painting, Vermeer depicts the sisters and the contemplative. The triangular structure the three figures, whilst Vermeer has given stressing the importance of the The pigment analysis of this the pigments of the baroque period vermilion and lead white. Vermeer did not blue pigment of choice ultramarine but with Saint Praxedis (1655). This is the second has been attributed to Vermeer. In 1969 two though some scholars still doubt of a painting with the same title by the with most biographical details of Vermeer's life, have seen Ficherelli's painting. The most there is no crucifix in the Ferrara work. It is St. Praxedis was a Roman virgin, who was honoured Vermeer depicts the Saint wringing blood from a The female figure in the background on the left The painting's provenance before the mid-twentieth bought it at a minor auction house in New York as a possible Vermeer when being shown as a art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New attention to the signature &quot;Meer 1655&quot; and suggested it could be a genuine Vermeer on the Companions. Following Reder's death (also in 1969) who also believed it to be by Vermeer. Foundation bought it from Spencer in 1987. subsequently argued the case for the attribution It was sold at Christie's in London on Piasecka Johnson Collection Foundation. It sold forty-two thousand five hundred pounds (Ten hundred sixty U.S. dollars), at the lower million pounds. Some art market commentators to Vermeer may have contributed to the relatively in the National Museum of Western Art in Tokyo, This appears to be a long-term loan to the museum catalogue, the Rijksmuseum revealed that Kufi Diana and Her Companions. Completed by circa painting by Vermeer, which is housed now at the exact year is unknown, the work may be the with some art historians placing it before Christ The painting's solemn mood is unusual and the nymph washing the central figure's and historians, both for her activity and illustrating one of the dramatic moments in the scene shows a woman and her attendants a private, reflective moment would grow stronger The painting depicts the Greek and Roman goddess her companions. She wears a loose fitting, on her head, a diadem with a symbol of the washes her left foot. Another, behind Diana, sits most skin Vermeer shows on a figure in any of at Diana's left, holds her own left foot with her apart from the rest of the group and facing them her fists in front of her. A dog sits in the viewer as it faces the goddess, her attendants Except for the woman whose face is all of the other faces in the painting including that of the dog. None of the absorbed in their own thoughts, a fact which In 1999-2000, when the painting underwent it was discovered that an area of blue sky in 19th century. Numerous reproductions up to that over the patch with foliage to approximate the particularly on the right, where about 15 cm in a &quot;woodland glade&quot; or &quot;near the edge of a wood&quot; thought to be original to the painting, although from above and to the left, with short shadows that the scene appeared to be taking place in by the lighter, but darkening patch of sky in the background of the painting, together The painting is signed on the lower left, Vermeer may have been influenced by Jacob van Loo's painting that bears the same title The Procuress. This is a 1656 oil-on-canvas can be seen in the Gemaldegalerie Alte Meister shows a scene of contemporary life, an image of from his earlier biblical and mythological scenes. and dated (the other two are The Astronomer being sold on an auction in Amsterdam, The woman in black, the leering could be the eponymous procuress, while the a doublet with slashed sleeves&quot;, has been there is a resemblance with the painter It seems Vermeer was influenced by earlier works Procuress (circa 1622) by Dirck van Baburen, Maria Thins and hung in her home. Some critics style and expression, because it lacks the that--if the work was by Vermeer at all--it to find a suitable mode of expression. that &quot;The temperament of the 24-year-old The jug on the oriental rug is a piece of a bannister, probably produced in Usak, medallions and leaves. The instrument with five buttons was added by Vermeer in a soldier, is fondling the young woman's breast According to Benjamin Binstock, this understood as a psychological portrait of a didactic message. Binstock says the procuress could be Vermeer's wife Catherina A Girl Asleep, also known as A Woman Asleep, created in 1657, this work is housed in the may not be lent elsewhere under the terms of young lady appearing to be asleep, whilst an empty is displayed on the table. There is an ambiguous for many years. X-rays have revealed that which Vermeer later decided to paint out, of the painting revealed a man in the second room the presence of the dog would have alluded to suitors strike up on the street.&quot; The man and the suggesting how the experience of the senses with a pillow on it, possibly signifying company. The idea that she was recently together the glass on its side and the possible The Chinese bowl with fruit is a symbol of familiar with the symbolism of Dutch art of the a gauzy material would have brought to mind more likely owned by Vermeer's patron, Pieter van The painting was among the large collection the estate of Jacob Dissius (1653-1695). It is owned by Dissius' father-in-law, Pieter Claesz then passed down to Ruijven's daughter Dissius. The work's history from that John Waterloo Wilson in Paris after 1873. when the Sedelmeyer Gallery in Paris bought it also of Paris. Kann owned the work until 1907. It London to Benjamin Altman, and it was exhibited 1913, when it passed into the hands of the Girl Reading a Letter at an Open Window. This and is housed in the Gemaldegalerie in of the painting was lost, with first Rembrandt work before it was properly identified was briefly in possession of the Soviet Union. an open window in profile. A red drapery hangs inward and which, in its lower right quadrant, foreground left, partially closed, masks a quarter drape reflects the green of the woman's gown on the red-draped table. On the table beside the This use of light may support speculation mechanical optical device, such as a double to help him achieve realistic In 1742, Augustus III of Poland, Elector of belief that it had been painted by Rembrandt. Hooch. It was so labelled when French art critic it as one of the rare works of the Dutch painter Girl Reading a Letter at an Open Window was during the bombing of Dresden in World War II, in a tunnel in Saxon, Switzerland; when the The Soviets portrayed this as an act of rescue; after the death of Joseph Stalin, the Soviets &quot;for the purpose of strengthening and furthering and German peoples.&quot; Aggrieved at the thought of museum curators in the Soviet Union suggested that world-famous treasures of the Dresden Gallery&quot; the a Letter at an Open Window and Sleeping Venus by and the painting was returned. Well-preserved, it X-ray examination of the painting in the 21st the girl. Further work by conservator Christoph part of the painting differed from the rest of the died. In 2019, it was decided by the Staatliche its original composition by Vermeer. The painting painting from Vermeer's own collection of The restoration provides an opportunity to on the wall may suggest that the girl is reading Gemaldegalerie Alte Meister (Old Masters Picture superficially amorous context, it is a fundamental Officer and Laughing Girl. This painting in The Frick Collection in New York. It which is a girl entertaining her suitor. whose face is illuminated by soft, direct light. who is believed to have posed for many art historians have determined that Vermeer had white collar, which would have hidden much of her cover all of her hair, drawing more attention with braiding appears in many of Vermeer's was usually worn as an everyday, common dress. mostly hidden in the shadows of the table. because they hid stains well. Art historians have surprised the girl with an impromptu visit during usually used for white wine. Because at that time The cavalier in the foreground wears displaying his wealth and rank. His hat which was weather-resistant and good for snowy hats were imported from the New World, in this eastern United States, which was at the time The red in his uniform is associated with power note to the painting. His rank as an officer is presence in the immediate foreground brings drama artistic device--in which an object is placed in of the overall painting is called repoussoir. and Vermeer probably learned it from The nature of the interaction between conjectured. Many art historians believe that honorably courted by this soldier. her open hand and smile could indicate Officer and Laughing Girl is one of depicted maps or globes. The map that hangs as a Willem Blaeu - Balthasar Florisz van which Vermeer must have owned, as he used der Krogt wrote that &quot;Vermeer's gift for realism mounted on linen and wooden rods, map ... He captures all of its characteristic The window and lighting is characteristic most likely because it is modeled after the similar to the window in the Girl Reading The glass in the window has many variations details of this painting. Only bright outside scene can be observed, as Vermeer never Some art historians believe that Vermeer used create the perspective in his painting. or a vanishing point, Vermeer probably what the relative size of the people should as it projects an image seen through the historical evidence that Vermeer used such a many of his paintings, including Officer Created circa 1658, this is one of Vermeer's the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. The painting shows products like butter and cheese, in a plain room container on a table. Milkmaids began working them to do housework as well rather than hiring of the milkmaid are various types of bread. She linen cap, a blue apron and work sleeves pushed floor behind her, near Delft wall tiles depicting a pole (to the right). Intense light streams The painting is strikingly illusionistic, the weight of the woman and the doesn't wash out the rough texture of the maid's thick waist and rounded shoulders&quot;, wrote Times. Yet with half of the woman's face in her downcast eyes and pursed lips express &quot;It's a little bit of a Mona Lisa effect&quot; in according to Walter Liedtke, curator of The Metropolitan Museum of Art, and &quot;There's a bit of mystery about her for daily task, faintly smiling. And our In Dutch literature and paintings of Vermeer's male desire--dangerous women threatening the centre of Dutch life--although some had started to represent them in a more neutral is one of the rare examples of a maid Vermeer's painting is even more understated, one of the Delft tiles at the foot of the depicts Cupid - which can imply arousal of a is daydreaming about a man. Other amorous symbols used as a symbol of the female anatomy. The foot female sexual arousal because, when placed under according to Liedtke. The coals enclosed inside heat of lust in tavern or brothel scenes, or the husband&quot;, according to Serena Cant, a British art and presence of milk seem to indicate that the dairy products, such as milk and butter, so the Since other Dutch paintings of the period indicate presence in the picture may symbolize the standing The painting was first owned by Pieter who also owned works by Vermeer of attractive This painting has &quot;perhaps, the most brilliant century, English painter and critic Joshua quality. One of the distinctions of Vermeer's was his preference for the expensive natural where other painters typically used the much lead-tin-yellow is also a dominant color in less somber and conventional rendering extant works). Depicting white walls was with his contemporaries using various forms of daylight with different intensities, displaying surfaces. The artist here used white lead, was widely known among Vermeer's contemporary Vermeer was able to use it so effectively&quot;, The woman's coarse features are painted with of the bread, as well as the crust itself, along are rendered with pointille dots. Soft parts of with dabs of ochre used to show the rough edges of right and close to the Dutch oven, has a broad Cant believes is a suggestion that the piece is thick impastoed dots that resemble a knobbly crust despite being closer to the viewer, are painted realism of the wall, with its stains, shadowing, of the woman's dress, the gleaming, polished panes of glass in the window are varied in a row from the bottom, far right) reflected on the another has a scratch, indicated with a thin white second from right) is pushed The discrepancy between objects at various Vermeer used a camera obscura, according to Cant. the canvas &quot;has really punctured the theory of traced compositions in an optical device [...] lasts maybe 10 seconds, but the painting The pin in the canvas would have been tied to would have snapped to get perspective The woman's bulky green oversleeves were painted rest of the woman's clothing, worked at the same painting of the clothing suggests the coarse, cuff uses a lighter mixture of ultramarine and beneath it. The brilliant blue of the skirt or transparent top layer) of the same color. material is a less coarse fabric than The Milkmaid was exhibited at the and the outbreak of World War II during the Netherlands - caused the work to remain in the time it was displayed at the Detroit Institute of the World's Fair exhibit was working), and was in 1939 and 1941. During the war, the work was where it was hanging as late as 1944, according to the painting in an exhibition, and the next at the Palazzo delle Esposizione in Rome and the exhibition at the Mauritshuis in the Hague and the the painting was at the National Gallery of Art in The Art of Painting&quot;, and it was part of the National Gallery, London from June 20 to September Museum of Art venue of that exhibition, earlier 2009, on the occasion of the 400th anniversary Manhattan), where it was the central feature alongside several of the museum's five Vermeer Vermeer's paintings from the 1650s demonstrate Italian Caravaggio, which he would have known painters such as Gerrit van Honthorst and Dirck decade, Vermeer became increasingly interested by Pieter de Hooch, a prominent Delft genre figures within light-filled interiors and a shadow. His earlier genre paintings are marked by pointilles (small dots of paint) and thick impasto The Glass of Wine. Vermeer was about 27 when believe it was his first fully mature work. The where it enjoys a popular reputation. It portrays interior setting. It contains figures situated its architectural space is highly defined. In ground, rather than positioned in the foreground. and the portrayal of a woman drinking from a Courtyard. However, Vermeer's work breaks away is rendered in a far more elegant and higher-class of the figures, the patterned tablecloth, the and the coat of arms in the stained window Compared to his earlier paintings, Vermeer's while the faces and clothes of the figures are tapestry of the tablecloth and the window linear brush strokes. At the time attempting to develop the ideas of De Hooch; Ter Borch, and Frans van Mieris the A Lady and Two Gentlemen. Also known this painting was finished by 1660 and is housed Germany. The work was acquired by the Duke has been on display since 1754, making it the The painting depicts two men, one appearing servile attention to the young woman. She is with the questionable proprietary of their poised between genuine pleasure and a on the viewer of the painting, View of Delft. Housed in a museum in the Hague, by some to be Vermeer's masterpiece. Completed realistic detail, using pointillism to great and demonstrates Vermeer's fascination with life. The painting has always enjoyed a good its earliest history. In the mid-nineteenth Theophile Thore to rediscover Vermeer, A technical analysis shows that Vermeer natural ultramarine, and madder lake pigments. The landscape was painted from an elevated possibly the upper floor of the Mechelen tavern very right of the painting is a medieval in front of which are two herring busses. It the other being the Schiedam Gate, shown in the between the Rotterdam Gate and the Schiedam the Schiedam Gate is a long red-roofed arsenal reflected in the calm harbour of the river Schie, On the lower left side of the painting, five to take them to Rotterdam, Schiedam, pulled by a horse and could hold up to thirty on the red interior of the barge. To the barge's originally painted a third person next to them, Behind the Rotterdam Gate is the illuminated the Nieuwe Kerk would be positioned more toward the center to make it more prominent. There those would not be added to the church until The Nieuwe Kerk was where Vermeer was baptized elder sister were buried. In the background is the which was built around 1246, making it Delft's Pieter Claeszoon van Ruijven, a lover View of Delft along with The Little Street. Van Vermeer's senior. He may have been introduced the notary who documented Vermeer's marriage however, that in 1657 van Ruijven lent Vermeer for Vermeer and specifically worded the document money. Vermeer was the only person named in family. After van Ruijven's death, View of Delft auctioned by her husband Jacob Dissius on 16 about twenty-one thousand dollars in 2024. In Willem Philip Kops. After his death it passed on passed it on to her daughter, Johanna Kops, who the Mauritshuis at the time, Johan Steengracht bid on it as it would not fit in the cabinet. On Cornelius Apostool, urged the minister to ask painting was then sold to the Dutch government for 2900 guilders. However, the king had it Paintings established at the Mauritshuis in The reasons for this decision are not known. It the painting or that he saw the depiction of Girl Interrupted at Her Music. This painting is was completed by 1661. It depicts a young woman, her music by a man looking down at the score. The as in many other depictions of young women in also questionable -- music teacher or lover? It was painted in the baroque style, using oil on canvas. In this painting, with a gentleman beside her. This painting century in Europe. It also focuses on the The room that they are shown in is one to a person of haute bourgeoisie. The painting The wine glass, discreetly shown is tied with both joyfulness and seduction. scenes that depicted feasts that included these large gatherings became smaller and more wine was also associated with love during this and untouched, which symbolizes the slow moving On the left side of the painting is a multi-paned for the scene. Vermeer used the same window design The Girl with the Wine Glass, The Glass of Wine, with her Maid, Woman with a Water Jug, Woman with Pearl Necklace). Some experts questioned whether the lighting from the window was thought to The chairs depicted in the painting are are some of the few objects in the painting You can see the minute details including and the "lozenge" pattern that were all The hazy painting in the background within a painting was discovered after its up by a wall and a hanging violin. Several painting and what it could have to do with the warning the couple about the dangers of love, that only have one lover, that Cupid is holding up or shows that &quot;love is in the air&quot;. The Cupid painting may never be revealed On the table sits a vase made of porcelain and the main centers for porcelain in the Netherlands success&quot; in recreating Chinese porcelain. Love and especially with the presence of a musical duet another was one of the few activities where young two in the painting were likely part of the haute and educated when it came to music, and each In 1662, Vermeer became the head of the Guild of close contact with numerous Delft patrons, established him as a well-respected painter, led many scholars to calculate that the artist While Vermeer continued to primarily his brushwork became noticeably smoother and that marked his earlier works, while his refinement in style can be in part attributed to who were known for their highly rendering with nearly imperceptible brushwork. Vermeer's luminous, smooth surfaces and nearly invisible Woman in Blue Reading a Letter. Housed in was completed by 1663. The central element of the window (not depicted) reading a letter. The woman that the woman's rounded figure is simply a result loose clothing may be suggestive, pregnancy was While the contents of the letter are not is revealing. The map of the County of Holland wall behind the woman has been interpreted written by a traveling husband. Alternatively, before the woman might suggest a lover as The very action of letter-reading reflects a as a common private moment becomes The painting is unique among Vermeer's floor or ceiling can be seen. The composition and the female figure are Reading a Letter at an Open Window. This work has Pearl Necklace and Woman Holding a Balance. The was published in 1620 and reprinted by Willem Officer and Laughing Girl. The latter however, a Letter depicts a monochromatic print. by a monochromatic exemplar preserved in the One day in 1663, while Vermeer was away from brother Willem returned and physically attacked to stab her with a pointed metal stick. The attack when the Vermeers' maidservant put herself Willem was heard to shout &quot;she- devil&quot; and &quot;old before being taken away and incarcerated the traumatic, violent episode didn't make its way Vermeer was known to capture in paint reflects a The Music Lesson. Completed by 1665, this painting James's Palace, London, where it has remained it was unknown that the work was by Vermeer, until The Music Lesson is a painting of a young a man. The man's mouth is slightly agape along with the music that the young girl a relationship between the two figures and the This was a common theme among Netherlandish used the same objects within his paintings various instruments, tiled floor and windows of few paintings produced by Vermeer which when his family was forced to sell them. and it is currently on display in the Picture The painting depicts a young woman while an elegantly dressed man stands of the harpsichord bears the inscription in sorrow". Behind the woman a large viol a vulnerable position if the lady was to step of horizontal and diagonal lines, and the The picture was sold in May 1696 in Delft, which included many Vermeers. It was later Pellegrini in 1718, with Pellegrini's Smith. The Music Lesson has been part of the when King George III bought Smith's collection it was believed to be a work by Frans van Mieris signature. It was not correctly attributed though some scholars were skeptical Woman Holding a Balance. This painting was Weighing Gold, before microscopic evaluation empty. The painting was among the large 1696 in Amsterdam from the estate of Jacob considerably above the prices fetched though somewhat below The Also called Woman Testing a Balance, is an oil Vermeer, now in the National Gallery of Art was known as Woman Weighing Gold, but the balance in her hand is empty. Opinions on with the woman alternatively viewed as In the painting, Vermeer has depicted, pregnant woman holding an empty balance before the pearls and gold within spilling over. beneath a mirror, and a window to the left light. Behind the woman is a painting of the outstretched hands. The woman may have been According to Robert Huerta in Vermeer and Plato: variously &quot;interpreted as a vanitas painting, as a religious meditative aid, and as an incitement have imagined the woman is weighing her valuables, reading parable into the pearls. Some art critics, as &quot;symbolically weighing unborn souls&quot;, have seen who perceive her as measuring her valuables, suggests that the woman should be focusing on the with the mirror on the wall reinforcing the suggested that the balance represents her careful piety. In this interpretation, the mirror on Woman with a Pearl Necklace. This painting was in the Gemaldegalerie Berlin. It depicts a young apparently considering whether it is the right at the exact moment where she considers her own too high for the woman to be naturally able to on her vanity. It is believed that this painting where it was recorded as being found following paintings, which suggests that the sitter Painted in 1664, this scene depicts a a window's light source. Dressed in a woman most likely comes from an upper-class it incorporates the color yellow, a draped a light source from the left, as well as For example, to the far left, a yellow, drawn back curtain is used. With a rich tone Vermeer is able to create a balance between the curtain would cover is very similar to On that same side of the wall, Vermeer displays made of ebony, which indicates wealth and is also distinctive. Vermeer associated the sense feminine power. Also due to Vermeer's interest portray duality. Other historians believe this the reminder of death. However, there is not A large portion of the painting happened to to set a stage for his main subject, the young behind her, the viewer can look more to the main is definitely the most descriptive part of the she is portrayed in a yellow, fur-trimmed can investigate how Vermeer painted. From the many thin layers of gray and white, which reveal during the Baroque period many Dutch artists realism. These coats also give historians a many Dutch interiors were filled with a variety long Dutch winters. These styles of furs were The woman's facial expression is also telling. As the young woman is caught clasping her pearl stares blankly and almost vainly ahead of the black-framed mirror. The woman retains a nice was very common to the period and revealed a Another important aspect of Vermeer's Woman domestic tools on the table. A water basin, the table. This painting may suggest criticism lack of occupation, and her Lastly, the deep blue tablecloth painting brings strong contrast to a contrast spot in order to maintain Woman with a Lute. Housed in the this painting was created circa 1663. The an ermine-trimmed jacket and enormous pearl presumably expecting a male visitor. &quot;A musical the floor in the foreground and by the flow floor,&quot; according to the Metropolitan Museum by contemporary viewers as a symbol of almost certainly cut from the same bolt as that The work likely was painted shortly and it shares with that painting rectangular motifs. But the painting a shift in that direction by Vermeer in Vermeer began using shadows and soft contours impression of spatial recession and atmosphere the objects in the foreground and by abrasion The painting was given to the railroad industrialist Collis Potter Huntington. Woman with a Water Jug. This painting the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York. This in the early to mid-1660s as the artist was not and the light was his only source of emphasis. light is composed of colours, and the effect the blue drape is reflected as dark blue and the red fabric modifies the The work was purchased by Henry Gurdon eight hundred dollars. When Marquand was the first Vermeer in America. with other pieces in his collection to the A young woman is found in the center of the right hand, while she holds a water jug with her Both of these, among other objects, are upon on a rug of Asian origin. Behind the table stands woman gazes out the window. The clothing of a black and gold bodice. A white cloth serves on the wall is by Huyck Allart and depicts Girl with a Pearl Earring. Widely considered is housed in the Mauritshuis gallery in the Lisa of the North'. Going by various names over title towards the end of the 20th century after His signature &quot;IVMeer&quot; is located in the upper very prominent and can be difficult to see. It In 1881, on the advice of Victor de Stuers, who from being sold to parties abroad, Arnoldus auction in the Hague, for only two guilders and purchasing power). At the time, it was in poor this and other paintings to the Mauritshuis in at the time also thought to be by Vermeer, was the National Gallery of Art in Washington the painting was claimed by Vermeer expert twentieth-century artist and forger Theo van The famous painting depicts a girl turning to look as though about to speak. The painting is given into the painting more and gives the girl a of sfumato (the blurring of lines), much like Vermeer achieves a very realistic The painting is a tronie, the Dutch 17th-century to be a portrait. It depicts a European girl and what appears to be a very large pearl as an with it being possible either that she was generalised and mysterious woman, perhaps There has been speculation that she is though this has been dismissed as an After the most recent restoration of the painting of the girl's gaze toward the viewer have it was discovered that the dark background, enamel-like green. This effect was produced by glaze--over the black background seen now. However, indigo and weld, have faded. In 2014, Dutch about the material of the earring and argued on the grounds of the specular reflection, the As an example of how celebrated the painting is, novel, also entitled Girl with a Pearl interest in Vermeer and his works. The novel was A Lady Writing a Letter. This painting is believed phase circa 1665. The lady depicted is writing as she turns her head to regard the viewer. It is in this work by Ter Borch, a Dutch artist who The lady in the painting is shown writing a letter have been interrupted, as she has turned her head while she continues to hold the quill in in a lemon-yellow morning jacket and wears a The number of compositional elements in the figure and the sparse objects in the woman and which emphasizes the directness of her gaze. on the table. This concentration of small used in the rest of the composition, which On the back of the wall is a painting, which The painting of which only a part is shown in possibly a double bass. It is known from the vanitas still life with a double bass and skull. description in the inventory of Vermeer's estate painter Cornelis van der Meulen it is likely Meulen's hand. Vanitas paintings were popular meaninglessness of worldly aspirations and the by contrasting symbols of death and decay relate to worldly success. Vermeer's intention in with an elegantly dressed lady was likely to all worldly possessions and achievements are Many of the objects seen in the painting, such and the string of pearls, also appear in other he or his family members owned the objects, are his relatives. It has often been suggested in his models that which he could not give In 1940 A Lady Writing was bought by Sir where it was hung until Oakes' death. Oakes was tragically murdered by the Mafia. The Havemeyer, whose sons later bequeathed it to Girl with a Red Hat. This painting as being one of Vermeer's 'tronies', a genre of unintended to be portraits of specific subjects. The portrait depicts a very young woman appears to be lace and a red hat. Her hair is She looks at the spectator as if she has just a voice, that has captured her attention. Her receives light from the right, which is However, after a study using the for a 2022 exhibition, titled Vermeer's began by painting the portrait of The older pigment analysis by Art historian investigation. The red hat is painted in two mixed with a black pigment, the upper layer is azurite and yellow ochre for the green areas The painting may have been among those owned Andrew William Mellon Educational gave the painting to the National Gallery Girl with a Flute. This painting is also Washington. The attribution to Vermeer has been who have pointed out that the musical instrument in the picture is rare in with its shape being similar to that of a considered an exotic curio in the Netherlands it would be strange that a forger should Scientific examination of the picture confirms analysis of the oak panel, based on an examination the early 1650s, which is consistent with The painting was discovered in a private who exhibited it at the Mauritshuis in 1906. Joseph Widener in the 1920s and given to the The Concert. Completed by 1666, this painting harpsichord, a seated man with a lute All three are deep in concentration the foreground of the painting is a table and a cittern place don top. The pattern of towards the musical trio gathered around the lid is decorated with a painting of a serene hangs a painting by Dirck van Baburen's, called A Lady Seated at the Virginal, implying The Concert was owned by the French critic wealthy American collector Isabella Stewart on her death in 1924. The painting was the most from the museum on 18 March 1990 and it has not valuable unrecovered stolen painting, with a value The Art of Painting. This famous work is an complex of Vermeer's surviving works. It depicts by a window, with a large map of the Netherlands figures, the subject and the painter, which though the face is not visible. Experts attribute subject is the Muse of History, Clio, wearing tome. The double headed eagle, symbol of of Holland, which adorns the central golden faith. Vermeer was unusual in being a Catholic The absence of candles in the chandelier might The map on the back wall has a rip that divides The rip symbolises the division between the controlled Flemish provinces to the south. The political division between the Union of Utrecht The painting is considered to have been very with it or sell it, even when he was in debt. piece to her mother, Maria Thins, in an attempt creditors. The executor of Vermeer's estate, the determined that the transferral of the work to It is not known who owned the painting for most was considered to be by Vermeer's contemporary until the late 19th century. Pieter's signature intervention of French scholar, Thore Burger and that it was recognised as a Vermeer original. It in Vienna. After the Nazi invasion of Austria, Hermann Goring attempted to acquire the painting. Count Jaromir Czernin by Adolf Hitler for million Reichsmark through his agent, Hans was rescued from a salt mine at the end of World bombing raids, with other works of art. The by Andrew Ritchie, chief of the Monuments, who transported it by locking himself The Americans gave the painting to the Austrian as it was deemed to have been sold voluntarily, now the property of the State of Austria and on Study of a Young Woman. This portrait was Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York. Because in tone and composition, it is often considered to Girl with a Pearl Earring. The subjects have scarves draped over their shoulders, and In addition, it is likely that the creation of The sitter is depicted as having a small nose and thin lips. This apparent lack of this work was painted on commission, although daughter. The picture encourages the viewer to feelings, or character, something typical a Pearl Earring and this painting are usual rich background. Instead the girls producing an isolating effect and heightening The painting may have been owned by Pieter then by his widow and next their daughter. of Brussels, owned the painting by 1829, and Schloss Meppen, from 1833 to the early 1950s. In the Prince d'Arenberg by Mr. Charles Wrightsman estimated at around four hundred thousand pounds picture to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in Mistress and Maid. Now forming part this painting depicts a maid, plainly leaning towards her mistress, while hand. The mistress raises her fingers to so we are allowed to see little of her expression. handing her a letter which has just arrived, the the maid is asking for instructions on where to There is a strong use of yellow in the and blue in the silk tablecloth and the maid's women as they are sitting at a desk, doing his domestic scenes containing women. The and falls on the mistress' face. The mistress has her fingertips lifted to her chin in a questioning are formed with sweeping brushstrokes of with definition. Vermeer uses a dark background, of a Young Woman and Girl with a Pearl Earring. period and that was reflected in the mistress' Letters are a prevalent theme in Vermeer's such as Woman in Blue Reading a Letter (circa letter, but in this painting the added expressions of the two women suggest anxiety Surviving records show that there persons one of whom is writing a letter' which Van Buyten, in settlement The Astronomer. This painting is housed in the Geographer, they are both the only paintings companion. They were most likely pendants, forming since they are almost the same Both works are also dated, with The The Geographer in the following year. Roman numerals on the cupboard, The astronomer is portrayed sitting at a table, Jodocus Hondius). Above the cupboard are to the front is a curious diagram, which has the 1621 edition of Adriaan Metius's Institutiones volume is open to Book III, a section advising the wall is a painting of 'The Finding of Moses'--Moses in all the wisdom of the Egyptians&quot;), which Portrayals of scientists were a favourite Vermeer's oeuvre includes both this astronomer believed to portray the same man, possibly Antonie canvas for the two works came from the same bolt The two paintings appear to have been kept The Astronomer was acquired in the 1880s de Rothschild. In 1940 the Nazis confiscated it to be taken to Germany. In 1945 The Astronomer was returned to the Rothschild family The Geographer. This painting depicts a In his right hand he holds a pair of dividers, on a map. The geographer's eyes peer the side of his face as he pauses, silent brighter than the interior in The Astronomer, The geographer, dressed in a Japanese-style be &quot;someone excited by intellectual inquiry&quot;, charts, a globe and books, as well as according to Arthur Kingsland Wheelock. conveyed most notably through the figure's side of the composition, and the sequence of Vermeer made several changes in the painting that the man's head was originally in a different sees it, indicating the man perhaps was looking the dividers he holds in his hand were originally originally on the small stool at the lower right, Details of the man's face are slightly blurred, Mistress and Maid), according to Serena Carr. the sunlight or an indication of intense depicts a &quot;flash of inspiration&quot; or even left and the position of the oriental carpet revelation. &quot;He grips a book as if he's about The globe was published in Amsterdam in 1618 globes were commonly sold together, and the a Hondius (Hendrick rather than Judocus)&quot;, created as pendant pieces, according to Cant. where the Dutch East India Company was then pointille dots, not to indicate light reflected the dull ochre cartouche &quot;frame&quot; printed on we know the decorative cartouche for future editions--reflecting the The cartographic objects surrounding the man are the globe, the dividers the man holds, a window), used to measure the angle of celestial man is using, which, according to one scholar, on vellum. The sea chart on the wall of &quot;all the published by Willem Jansz. Blaeu. This accuracy profession. The Astronomer, which seems to form sophisticated knowledge of cartographic man modeled for both. That man himself may have surveying and geographical instruments, and Wheelock and others assert the model/source was a contemporary of Vermeer who was also born textile business, and both families had a strong van Leeuwenhoek was described after his death mathematics, philosophy, and natural science ... distinguished masteres of the art.&quot; the Delft artist Jan Verkolje) about 20 years similar to Vermeer's model. At the the scientist would have been about 36 years his examination for surveyor, which he documentary evidence for any kind of relationship although in 1676, van Leeuwenhoek was The pose of the figure in Vermeer's painting in Rembrandt's famous etching&quot; (although to Lawrence Gowing. Similar arrangements Vermeer's signature is inscribed on the wall behind. The inscription on the wall century. It may give the correct year having like The Astronomer, it might The wealth of his wife's family allowed rather than to support his family as and he never took on pupils or apprentices. The pigments like lapis lazuli for the skirt of The Girl with a Wineglass. While some have suggested would have bought and supplied the artist with unsurprising that it was around this time that the The Love Letter. Housed in the Rijksmuseum in playing the cittern, having been interrupted fireplace two paintings are displayed, the lower is a lost work by Vermeer, and the other picture The tied-up curtain in the foreground creates intensely private, personal scene. There is also were often hung with little curtains to conserve in other Dutch works of the period. The diagonals depth and three-dimensionality. The fact that it made clear by the fact that she is carrying as a symbol of love - often carnal love; luit was reinforced by the slippers at the very bottom symbol of sex. The floor brush would appear to side of the painting may suggest that domestic The colors blue and gold are important the household that The Love Letter takes substantial wealth. The gold is located on and many of the objects, which complements the picture frames. Classical influence is also The two paintings on the wall are also a stormy sea, a metaphor for tempestuous a traveler on a sandy road. This may refer to the lady. Love Letter remains the only one The two women are most likely the same models as concern a letter and provoke questions regarding Interestingly, The Love Letter was stolen an exhibition in Brussels, but the work was The Lacemaker. This painting was completed by 1670 is the smallest of Vermeer's paintings. It holding a pair of bobbins in her left hand as she is making her bobbin lace. Vermeer probably used many optical effects typical of photography can be Vermeer presents the various elements which as the pattern of the material she is working on of her hair and the cross which form her eyes unusual for the era in which Vermeer worked. In as spilling from the sewing cushion with physical blurring of these threads contrasts sharply with Vermeer's painting is often compared to a portrait and genre painter Caspar Netscher. tone. In the earlier work, both the girl's have sexual connotations, which are completely Vermeer's late paintings feature greater patterns and colors of objects, rather than with bold and angular planes of color. This paintings such as Lady Writing a Letter with Lady Writing a Letter with her Maid. This painting Dublin. It depicts a middle-class woman attended messenger and go-between for the lady and her quiet restraint and self-containment of Vermeer's of the 1670s. It may have been partly inspired The painting's canvas was almost certainly cut Lady Writing a Letter with her Maid is the first composition; where the focus is not only on his third work in which the drama and dynamic shown standing in the mid-ground, behind her lady, to be completed. The positions of their bodies The folded arms of the maid seem outwardly as an however she is detached from her lady both gaze towards the half-visible window indicates impatiently for the messenger to carry her lady's absoluteness of this view; according to Pascal a look or a smile&quot; from either woman, the mere as the composition of a love letter indicates The crumpled page lying on the floor could just received or an earlier draft of her letter depicted on the rear wall of The Finding describing how the infant Moses was is portrayed after his rescue, surrounded The painting contains many of Vermeer's usual with the inside/outside axis of interior spaces, the verticals of the dresses, window frame and abstract forms, recalling his earlier View of This painting was owned by Sir Alfred who died in 1994. It was housed at Russborough It was first taken on 26 April 1974, when connected to the IRA. Lady Writing a Letter with little damage to the work. On 21 May 1986 the in Antwerp seven years later. Sir Alfred presented Ireland in 1987, including this painting, which Allegory of Faith. This painting is housed in is an unusual painting in the oeuvre of Vermeer, faith. The figure of Faith is portrayed with a gazing fervently upwards, while her right foot and an open Bible are displayed. The globe is the Faith rests her foot on the continent of Asia, On the floor lies a bitten apple, connoting by a stone and blood gushes from its mouth, The previous masterpiece The Art of Painting Faith, which was most likely commissioned Both paintings are set in the same room, not long after Vermeer's death Allegory of the banker Herman van Swoll, although The Guitar Player. In this painting, Vermeer instrument is placed comfortably on sitting in the corner of a room. Her attire is an ivory-colored satin dress, and a pearl pastoral landscape bordered by an extravagant and a guitar. Prior to this painting, Vermeer On the contrary, this young girl has an open girl's smile and tipped head, along with the painting suggests that she is playing Her dress and hairstyle reflect the relevant The young girl is portrayed with as if she is in the act of speaking or in this painting is conveyed through the young pictured behind her, and the soft tones Vermeer is able to provoke feelings Dated circa 1672, this work of art is one providing insight into the techniques he favored. The painting has been on display as part of the Iveagh Bequest collection. when the painting was held for ransom, The The morning jacket portrayed in this painting of which are A Lady Writing a Letter, Mistress each painting, the jacket depicts different types thin patches of gray and yellow lead-tin paint the folds in the jackets fabric and fur trim. can be acknowledged through the inclusion of dark arm and shoulder. From a distance these small side-by-side. Historians conclude that the fur on but either cat, squirrel, or mouse. The jacket in The Guitar Player is one of the few Vermeer's depiction of a pearl necklace alludes work he used an abstract technique to portray the Allegory of Faith. To begin, he painted curved around her neck to depict a shadow. of white spherical highlights. He did not the natural translucence of the gemstone. Vermeer simplified and dismissed intense detail of his own style, along with a technique that Vermeer's depiction of a young girl making music inspiration, as well as the art of painting in in Spain, and was keenly sought after in the guitar was cheaper and easier to play. combination of ivory, ebony, tortoiseshell, with multiple layers of ornately scrolled paper. as both a continuo (harmonic) instrument, and a is bolder than that of the lute, and this is strings reverberate deeper and fuller than as loud as the modern flamenco guitar, and This painting depicts a five-course guitar, Vermeer's depiction of a guitar suggests in which the lute is left behind with its The depiction of this guitar was created with is created with a depiction of a finely tooled arrangement of painted strokes. These strokes yellow paint. The decorative white and black trim cheerful atmosphere. The small detailed sound which portrays the light reflecting across its well thought out technique Vermeer used strings. Some of the strings are blurred, and are vibrating. Because of this, we can Vermeer's picture-within-a-picture was The landscape that is depicted behind the young A Wooded Landscape with a Gentleman and Dogs the mimicked composition is cropped slightly young musician covers the gentleman and focus towards the centered tree, as well as Vermeer may have incorporated this sun-filled reference to woman's beauty. Artists in the the topic of female beauty to nature, which was Vermeer's depiction of a whitewashed wall illustrates an individual strumming a guitar painting's composition is balanced due to the unobtrusive wall helps establish the mood of and spatial depth. Because of the wall's color, temperature from the incoming light. Vermeer's According to the Delft building historian frequently integrated in the houses, castles, The beginning process of whitewashing a wall which is created with burned seashells. thick enough, then the process of Although unrecognizable to the untrained eye, through Vermeer's artistic career. At behind her shoulder, a silhouette This finial references chairs designed and crafted the Spanish craftsman used leather and not of rawhide. These chairs were respected for creators of these chairs regarded themselves Vermeer's decision to depict three books suggests through a high level of education. Even it has been argued that the middle book's stated that the possible representation of the then the painting could indicate a decision young girl's body language and facial expression individual on her right. Others argue that which is familiar in Dutch paintings of the the young musician featured in this haute bourgeoisie who could read, Vermeer's artistic style in the 1670s is often The Guitar Player properly demonstrates the paintings portray quiet self-contained worlds, style demonstrated abstract painting techniques, through the diffused illustration of shifting create paintings that demonstrate dynamic poses case, sound) is taking place. The Guitar Player This is another painting by this time from Kenwood House on 23 February ten weeks later, it was recovered in Lady Standing at a Virginal. This painting London, and depicts a young woman playing the she seems to recognise someone, and she smiles at them. On the virginal's lid a landscape picture hanging on the wall in the Cupid is thought to have been inspired van Veen. Cupid holds a card showing the number Lady Seated at a Virginal. Also housed in most likely Vermeer's last surviving painting, Woman Playing the Virginal, completed a few years woman sitting at a virginal, who turns to the the back wall is The Procuress by Van Baburen, Baburen's painting symbolises mercenary love, represented in the previous Vermeer painting believe that both of these Vermeer works were After Vermeer's death the two paintings were were reunited by the critic Thore. Once more they Virginal was bought by the National Gallery, but Salting, who bequeathed it to the National which represent the last of Vermeer's A Young Woman Seated at the Virginals. This in New York. The painting is thought to work was little known, but it was determined examination and passages of painting very similar According to the technical analysis performed tell-tale signs of ultramarine blue were wall. It is well known that Vermeer used providing further evidence that the The last three years of Vermeer's life were filled Dutch Republic by the French, German, and British the once prosperous, middle-class country. The afford to keep himself, his wife, her mother, and of debt, borrowing thousands of guilders, and was Vermeer died on December 16, 1675, having fallen into a fit of madness and depression. In &quot;...during the ruinous war with France he but also, to his great detriment, was left that he was dealing in. As a result and owing means of his own, he lapsed into such decay and as if he had fallen into a frenzy in a day and a Due to the very localized fame during from the art world until the 19th century when started to turn their eyes toward the real and at capturing moments of ordinary beauty, he who revived an awareness of the master's (3 more are disputed Vermeers) Vermeer is considered today to be one of the In the twentieth-century, the Surrealist work and produced his own variations including as a Table in 1934, as well as The Other artists like the Danish painter Vilhelm interiors for their own nineteenth and has modernized Vermeer's Woman in Blue and subduing the color palette so is looking at an early photograph Among many of his exalted paintings, Girl with of the North.&quot; Its staggering realism and novelists, and filmmakers for decades. Most artist Banksy reinterpreted and reproduced using a burglar alarm in place