Oriental Sangyo Co., Ltd. was founded in 1953 as a group company of Tokai Carbon Co., Ltd. This is the only company in Japan that specializes in producing pencil leads. Today I will show you the process of making a pencil lead. Let's take a look together. Raw material composition. Mix the raw materials according to the mixing ratio. Hang it on a roller. Add water and make a paste. Form the paste into one lump. Molding. Put the mass in an extrusion press and extrude it to the size of a pencil lead. Cut the core to size. Recycle leftovers. Making colored pencil cores. Put the mass in the extrusion press and extrude it in the same way as the black pencil lead. Drying. Place the wick in a metal tube to dry. Rotate the tube to dry. Firing. Place the dry wick in the box. Put the box in a dryer and bake it in a furnace at 1,000degC. Oil immersion. Soak the fired pencil lead in hot oil. Packaging. Put the finished nib into the box while checking the size. Test. Hokusei Pencil Co., Ltd. is a company that specializes in producing pencils for over 70 years Factory/office *Pencil types and colors may change depending on the process. note that For pencils, I use cedar and cypress trees that grow in American forests. It is a large tree with a height of about 30m, about 70 to 80 years old Carve the board and make a semi-circular groove where the lead fits him Check the NG part (Because it can be used other than the colored groove) Place the lead in the groove of the board After applying the adhesive, stack another board, put a weight on it, and stick it together Fix after gluing Sharpen it into a pencil shape. By changing the cutter, the axis can be hexagonal, round, triangular, square, heart-shaped, etc Turn it over and scrape the other side as well Mix the paint used for painting Pass through the perforated rubber and apply paint Defective product inspection Process of imprinting the product name and core density Sharpen the pencil Put it in a box, can, bag, etc., and you're done. Finished pencils are sent from the factory to stationery stores Xing niLiu shiIp mimasu 5Fen Hou Gu matsutaShi Gao chiyo-kuwoXing karaQu riChu su. Xiang Jie me Mo suri Founded in 1968, Iwako Co., Ltd. is a manufacturer specializing in plastic stationery, mainly making erasers prototyping Make a prototype using wax or plastic (3D printer) Modeling for 3D printer output cleaning After cleaning, take out the dried prototype assembly The process of coloring the pellet that is the material of the eraser Assemble the mold that determines the shape Insert the pin that pushes out the finished part The process of attaching the mold to the machine fixed with magnets A cooling water circulation hose is attached to cool the melted and hot eraser material in the mold. put the colored pellet into the machine melt and spray pellet Finished eraser parts separate parts from excess Drop the completed parts with a pin The surplus parts are reprocessed and reused Process of assembling finished parts packing cataloging Kuretake Co., Ltd. is a long-established company that has been in business for over 120 years. Starting from ink stick making, they manufacture and sell calligraphy supplies and pens. Ink stick is a solid ink made from soot and used for writing, which has been used as a type of stationery in Asia since ancient times. Today I will show you the process by which ink stick is made. Let's take a look together. Making the mold. Dissolving the glue. The glue, which is the material for making ink stick, is melted in a double boiler to make a glue solution. Mixing and kneading the soot and glue solution together. Kneading with feet. Kneading with hands. Putting the ink stick in the mold and pressing it. When taking it out of the mold, remove the excess paste. Drying in ashes. Since the ink stick will crack if it is rapidly dried, it is gradually dried over 10-30 days by removing the moisture from the humid ashes. To naturally dry the ink sticks, it is woven with rice straw. Natural drying. Polishing. Finishing. Coloring. Packaging. Test. Japan Chalk Industry Co., Ltd. located in Misato City, Saitama Prefecture in Japan. Japan Chalk Industry has been making chalk for over 80 years. Today I will show you the process by which calcium carbonate chalk and gypsum chalk are made. Let's take a look together. Process of making calcium carbonate chalk 8 types of calcium carbonate paste Defective calcium carbonate chalk paste and water Mixer 30 minutes After resting for a day, calcium carbonate chalk is processed. The extruder- cut calcium carbonate chalk is dried for one day. Process of making gypsum chalk Gypsum will harden naturally when mixed with water. Pour into the mold After 5 minutes remove the hardened gypsum chalk from the mold. boxing Test.