We begin at the end of World War I. After the defeat of the Central Powers, harsh Austria-Hungary and the Ottoman Empire are As per the Treaty of Versailles, Germany loses This particularly benefits Poland, which is cutting Germany in two. The German army must be limited to 100,000 Finally, Germany and its allies are held solely The German people see the treaty as humiliation. The only consolation for the country is, as that its infrastructure and industry are intact. Meanwhile, the victors too do not unanimously In Italy, public anger mounts because the in addition to suffering a high death toll In the United States, the Senate goes against and does not ratify the Treaty of Versailles the new League of Nations. This international organization is tasked However Russia, which became the USSR after is excluded from the League of Nations. Weakened and frustrated by the loss of European Russia finds itself isolated as the West fears The United Kingdom focuses on its immense empire which covers almost a quarter of the land surface of the planet. France, the northern regions of which are finds itself without strong allies in the which is rejected by the German people. In Germany, high debt and speculation on the The country slows down payments for war reparations. In reaction, France and Belgium, which count on these payments for their own send troops to occupy the Ruhr, a rich industrial region. Hyperinflation reaches its peak. $1, which in 1914 was worth around 4 marks, Some banknotes become less valuable than the The United States and the United Kingdom propose to adjust German debt and grant credit to The United States then lends to Germany, which which themselves are indebted to the United by buying arms and equipment on credit during the war. The United States thus becomes the backbone After a year of reforms, Germany returns back Tensions ease and the country is even admitted The global economy booms, with the United The abundance of raw materials and the development accelerates production and lowers prices. In Italy, Mussolini's fascist party obtains by banning all other political parties. In New York, the Wall Street crash takes place of the 20th century. Its repercussions are global. Germany is badly hit with 30% of its population The government in power is held responsible In the legislative elections of 1932, the Its president Adolf Hitler is placed as head In a short time, he eliminates all opposition The Weimar Republic is replaced by the 3rd Hitler's ambition is to unite the German peoples -- who he considers "superior" -- into He wants to annul the Treaty of Versailles, The country leaves the League of Nations, and reinstates compulsory military service. In reaction, France and the United Kingdom Hitler sees this as an opportunity to massively In 1935, Italy launches a policy of colonial Its armies enter Abyssinia, an independent Despite occupying its capital, Italian forces and the exiled emperor of Abyssinia would In Spain, a civil war pits Republicans against who has the military support of Italy and The two countries take the opportunity to by forming the Rome-Berlin Axis. Germany also signs an alliance with the Empire Japan now takes advantage of a civil war in by declaring war on the country. Japan seizes new territories and massacres In Austria, the local Nazi party after exerting succeeds in officially annexing the country to Germany. Hitler now wants to seize Sudetenland, a Czechoslovak France and the United Kingdom, trying to avoid betray their Czechoslovak ally by authorising 6 months later, however, Germany violates Slovakia becomes a German satellite state. Hungary, which lost two-thirds of its territory Hitler now eyes the Polish corridor. An ultimatum is issued to Poland, which rejects it. France and the United Kingdom then announce in case of a German invasion. Meanwhile, Italy invades Albania, while in - dominated by Japan - and Mongolia - a Soviet ally - is followed Despite its alliance with Japan, Germany does as the country is preparing to invade Poland. Germany even signs a nonaggression pact with A secret protocol delimits the spheres of in Poland and in Eastern Europe. After its defeat, Japan abandons its westward and instead focuses attention to the south. On September 1, Germany attacks Poland without In reaction, France and the United Kingdom Polish armies are quickly overwhelmed by Germany's It involves concentrating maximum force on to quickly break through a front line, surrounding enemy pockets, and neutralizing them. Despite German forces being concentrated in and remain stationed at the borders, instead as it did during WWI. The Soviet Union, in accordance with the Molotov-Ribbentrop The two powers prevail and occupy the country. The USSR then focuses on Finland. When the latter refuses to renegotiate the which Russia considers a threat to Leningrad the Red Army begins an invasion. But it faces greater resistance than expected, the USSR struggles to win. Finally, peace is signed and the border is But the Winter War proves to be a fiasco for which does not go unnoticed by Hitler who In the West, the Allies threaten an important and supplies 50% of German industry. In reaction, Germany invades Denmark and Norway. Maintaining its momentum, the Reich launches The French and British, who fear a new Schlieffen send quickly a large part of their forces to form a common front with Belgian and Dutch armies. But Germany, as it did in Poland, launches After massively bombarding a weak point, its Panzer tanks pierce the front line and 1.5 million Allied soldiers are surrounded. In a few days, more than 330,000 British and are evacuated via the port of Dunkirk, which is taken over on June 4. German armies then charge Paris. Italy takes advantage to declare war on France, The new head of the French government, Marshal But General Charles De Gaulle, exiled in London, After signing the armistice, Petain's government with the South East and French colonies remaining Germany occupies the north and the Atlantic The British begin to capture and destroy French In the East, the USSR, still in alignment seizes Baltic countries and Bessarabia without Hitler now wants to invade Britain. But the island is too well defended by the The British RAF and the German Luftwaffe regularly But the British fleet regenerates faster than British air force installations then become On the night of August 24, a German plane and bombards a district of London. In retaliation, Britain bombs Berlin the following Hitler is furious. The battle takes a new turn. Both camps begin targeting cities. Despite London being regularly bombed, the Hitler then plans to abandon this front to On September 27, Japan joins Germany and Italy Despite their alliance, Germany and Italy Mussolini concentrates his forces in the conquest from Libya to Egypt, Italian East Africa to But it is a failure for his troops who retreat while the Royal Navy dominates over the Italian Germany is forced to intervene to prevent from falling entirely into British hands. Another aim is protecting Romanian oil which A German army is sent to Libya, while another After Hungary, Romania and Slovakia, it is Yugoslavia and Greece are then invaded within On June 22, Germany and its allies launch -- the largest in history -- against the USSR, which passes de facto into Finland takes the opportunity to join the On paper, nothing can stop the Wehrmacht, Blitzkriegs are launched on a large scale, allowing the capture of some 3 million soldiers While behind the front lines, German mobile To support the USSR, Allies open a supply But the route seems threatened by the Shah The USSR and the United Kingdom then decide In the USSR, the German advance is slowed due to the sheer vastness of the battlefield In addition, the Germans underestimated the regenerates quickly with the arrival of new where a non-aggression treaty was signed with A new front is created at the gates of Moscow, after which German troops suffer a knock-out punch falling from the sky. In a few days, temperatures drop below -30 Badly equipped, German forces suffer while the Soviets counterattack What Hitler feared is happening: some 80% On the Asian front, to counter Japan's expansionist the United States imposes an embargo on oil and steel, essential resources for the country's industry However, in the south-east of the continent, there are large reserves of oil, iron and rubber. With European powers preoccupied with war Japan thinks it can quickly seize these lands. The only threat in the region is the United stationed at Pearl Harbor. Japan decides to strike hard and by surprise as much as possible any military intervention On December 7, without a declaration of war, bombs the military port of Pearl Harbor. The offensive is successful, although damage The United States, which already supplies with arms, joins the Allies. But they would need a few months to repair and enter the Pacific. Japan takes advantage of this delay to successfully Civilians are largely targeted throughout Japan massacres populations in conquered countries. In Europe, Nazi concentration camps, initially intended to lock up political opponents, Jews, gypsies, Jehovah's Witnesses, homosexuals In occupied territories as well as in Germany, In Western Europe, resistance is mainly non-violent, refusal to collaborate, propaganda, sabotage In the East, mainly in Poland, Yugoslavia, militias launch guerrilla warfare against In the Atlantic Ocean, German submarines -- called by sinking commercial ships that supply the The United States, for its part, secretly In addition, the country now gets ready to In 2 months, two decisive battles put an end On the Eastern Front, Hitler launches a new targeting the important oil reserves of the Axis troops quickly reach the gates of Stalingrad, but the industrial city is fiercely defended by the Soviets. In the South Pacific, Allied forces, with launch a counter attack, the objective being to move from island to In addition, the United States uses submarines that transport resources to Japan. In Egypt, British troops win a decisive battle that definitively pushes Italo-German forces out of the country. While in the West, an Allied landing allows In retaliation, the Germans and Italians invade In the USSR, as the 6th German Army managed a Soviet counterattack takes place outside They drive out Romanian troops, who form the and surround the 300,000 German soldiers in the city. After two months of resistance, they are forced In Africa, the last Axis troops are defeated. The Allies control the continent and now set A first landing takes place in Sicily. On the Eastern Front, Hitler tries to maintain which leads to the biggest tank battle in Under pressure, Stalin urges his allies to The United Kingdom and the United States first by intensifying bombing of industrial centers Hamburg, the country's second city, is largely In Kursk, despite heavy losses, the Soviets In Italy, after the fall of Mussolini, a British The new government signs an armistice with But the Germans anticipate this scenario and With an Allied victory now seeming possible, and Roosevelt for the United States meet in The three leaders agree to coordinate better, via two landings in France, and to provide military support to the Communist In the east, the siege of Leningrad ends after claiming the lives of at least 1 million civilians. In the West, after the bombing of German factories Allies are ready to open a new front. The biggest military landing in history allows troops largely from the United States, to gain a foothold in Normandy, while the USSR for its part launches a huge which in two months pushes the Germans back by 600km. In France, while a second landing takes place On multiple fronts, Allied advances liberate Only the Yugoslav resistance drives out the Again, Stalin, Churchill and Roosevelt come Roosevelt obtains the future creation of the which would replace the League of Nations. Countries that declare war on Germany before which causes a wave of war declarations with It is also decided to recreate Poland. But Stalin refuses to cede conquered territories. Polish territory would therefore be moved which itself would be divided and occupied The USSR swears to also declare war on Japan The last 4 months of the Reich prove to be In concentration camps, on battlefields and on average, 30,000 people die every day. Berlin is finally surrounded by the Soviets. Hitler who had taken refuge in his bunker The capitulation of the 3rd Reich is signed and ratified in Berlin the following day. In Potsdam, the victors decide the fate of Italy loses its colonies. Germany, as expected, is divided and occupied, The new frontiers of the continent would result Polish and German minorities would be driven Finally, an ultimatum is issued to Japan, demanding Japan ignores the ultimatum. The country is heavily bombed by the United More than 60 large industrial cities had already The United States then drops 2 atomic bombs while the USSR begins invading Manchukuo, Finally on September 2, Japan surrenders. The country would be occupied by the United In the West, the USSR and the United States Finally, in Indochina, the French regain control but face opposition by some Vietnamese groups Colonial empires worldwide are weakened as provoked by heavy involvement in war and high World War II is the deadliest war in history, of which 66% are civilians. The Soviet Union and China are by far the while in China civil war resumes between Communists In Europe, almost 3 million tonnes of bombs Many cities are destroyed, mainly in Germany. The continent finds itself divided with the and the West under US influence. For the first time, Germany and France would and preserve peace by creating the European Coal and Steel Community, the predecessor of the European Union. At the international level, the United Nations Other international organizations such as From an energy point of view, the great powers and scramble to control global oil resources. Rivalry accelerates between the USSR and the The two superpowers would embark upon a Cold