- What are the requirements Perhaps it is a fussy, One that only occur in the rare cases where conditions are absolutely perfect. An event that demands to be precisely aligned. Or perhaps life starts with relative ease, just throw together a few and life inevitably spawns. Each of these possibilities with our current data of All life on earth is genetically related, distant cousins harking back known as LUCA, the Lowest So despite the biodiversity we're all just descendants Maybe there were others but for now we have no Crucially, the fact that doesn't actually teach us anything, because we already know that. Of course there had to be one success or else how could you and I Life could be incredibly And if so, it's no coincidence in one of the rare Because for living there could simply be no other way. This means that our mere existence, nor indeed that of the does not help us in trying to answer this grandest of questions. How often does life get started? If we were to one day then that would prove that More importantly, that second start would have nothing to do with us. Our existence is not dependent upon whether it happened or not. Such a discovery would It would likely be the most in human history, proving Of course there has throughout the years, engineered clouds on Mars, Venusian bio-signatures, and of course, claims of alien contact or sightings. Yet none of these past claims have crossed the scientific bar needed to call them a A reproducible set of observations with an unambiguous interpretation. The Martian canals is a that we've discussed in illustrating how easily can interfere with an objective analysis of data pertaining to alien life. Of course, an absence of evidence is not evidence of absence either. Life could be incredibly rare or very common or anything in between. So again, our existence in of itself doesn't provide any In fact, trying to use it in such a way actually forms a circular argument. Because of course, our is predicated upon at least one success. A much better piece of of when life emerged on the earth, occurring cosmically quick, within just a few hundred million years. In one of our previous papers and videos I showed how this quick start is also still burdened with ambiguities. Yet overall, it suggests that if we had the ability to somehow rerun the clock on then we'd give nine to one betting odds that life would indeed If you're comfortable calling then this single data point seemingly settles the debate, right? Re-run Earth's clock over Therefore life should be Well, it's that second step where we need to tread very carefully. Because remember I'm so that means that a identical conditions to the earth, the same orbit, the same mass, the same initial atmosphere, of each and every pebble But if I move one of those or one of those continents, Like the butterfly effect, might drastically change the fate of life to a potentially far more dire outcome. This is where the famous Rare First formulated by Professors Peter Ward and Robert Brownlee, the Rare Earth Hypothesis has now become a highly influential and As the name suggests, it of our planet are incredibly unusual. Finely balanced just right for life. If true, the idea that life starts quickly with Earth-like conditions because those conditions that life hardly ever gets Or a different take on the idea, and one that is more consistent is that precise Earth-like for intelligent life in particular. Perhaps there's microbes on Mars, but if you want a civilization, you really need something So what exactly is it that to be so special about our home? There's the fairly obvious Too small and the planet's that it can't hold onto Too heavy and the planet's higher gravity risks runaway growth into a giant planet. The next obvious factor is from your star that liquid When the book was published in 2000, well, we really didn't know much about either of those factors. But of course in the years since, exo planet discoveries have amassed and now we finally do have some insights. For example, we now are common around typical stars. However, we still don't yet know how common are rocky planets on Earth-like orbits You can check out our Rare earth goes much further than just mass and orbit though. To gain some insight, I'm gonna highlight four key additional factors that are often invoked Factor one, a habitable a magnetosphere to protect it This effect is coming into recent focus as we consider sending astronauts to the moon or Mars on a long term basis. The Earth's magnetic field protects us from ionizing radiation, along it's field lines. Since the moon and Mars don't have an intrinsic global magnetic field, this ironizing radiation poses leading to cancerous cells Of course, one solution is for astronauts just to hunker down under some regolith, either in caves or throwing In fact, the earth by virtue of its much thicker atmosphere. Indeed, renowned has argued that Earth's thick atmosphere is in fact sufficient to protect us even without a magnetic field. An idea which has support from the fact that life clearly persisted during Earth's frequent So perhaps the field isn't Moving on, factor two are necessary for life The main thrust here is of rock, nutrients and chemicals are enabled by the subduction of crust. When an oceanic plate we essentially recycle chemicals locked up in rocks, the fossils, and oil. The elements within them are liberated under the intense heat and eventually re emerge It is thought that this recycling is an advantage for biology, maintaining a fresh supply However, here too, there's been pushback. Some arguing that earth mass objects inevitably form plate tectonics, and that even without it, you For factor three, we turn to our moon. Our moon is freakishly large compared to the planet Whereas most moons in the solar system are no more than 1/10000th Our moon is 100 times greater, at over 1%. A consequence of this is that it has an oversized most noticeable through the tides. But going deeper, it's also thought to stabilize the axial tilt of our planet, which is locked in at an angle It was Jacques Laskar in a seminal paper in 1993. But since then, astronomer suggesting that stable obliquities can occur without a big moon too. A large moon could help in other ways, too such as generating huge shortly after its formation. And perhaps even kick via the giant impact that formed it. But in both cases, it's deeply unclear how crucial these are for life. The final factor I'll Impacts from comets and asteroids that could extinguish life on the earth. Clearly, too many of although it's also been suggested that not enough is a problem too. Perhaps sometimes evolution and needs a clean slate, a In this context, Jupiter to play an important role, perhaps protecting us from giant impacts. For example, in 1994, we as Jupiter took one for the team. As the 1.8 kilometers Shoemaker-Levy However, simulation work doesn't provide such a clear picture. In fact, astronomers Horn and Jones found that Jupiter actually led to more meteorite impacts So as you can see, there has about the validity of Now, rather than doing a I think it's more useful just to ask how can we combine these together? Can we somehow use them to calculate just how rare earth is? It was John Kramer who suggested who be combined together to build a so-called Rare Earth Equation. It computes the number of NE, as a function of the various inputs. So as an example, we could Where FP is the fraction FR is the fraction of those FH is the fraction of those planets that are in the habitable zone. FM is the fraction of And FJ is the fraction of those with a Jupiter-like companion. Five factors and yes, I'm ignoring the geology factors in this example. Notice that by construction, each one is a subset of the previous. So FH for example, is not the fraction of all planets in the habitable zone, but rather it's just for the rocky ones. This is known as conditional probability and it's gonna be important to remember. Now this sequence of multiplicative, conditional probabilities the famous Drake Equation, which calculates how many In fact, the relationship is even deeper because the Drake Equation for the fraction of So that means that we could with the latter four factors from our Rare Earth In effect, then, the Rare Earth Hypothesis can thus be seen to kind of Either earth at the Drake Equation into a myriad of finer grain parameters that are necessary for true earth analogs. I think presented like this, it ostensibly seems We're improving the Drake Equation we are posing a refined But is really true? Certainly one advantage is that it's very flexible. Look, you might disagree that a large moon is necessary for life, but instead think that a Okay, fine. You can easily just swap out which would still leave you That would give us this equation, which we'll call scenario A. Alternatively, perhaps you think that the earth is a far more rarefied and finely-tuned concept alone can allow for. Perhaps you add on a parameter for the solar system's galactic location and then another for the and then another for et cetera, et cetera. Eventually, maybe you end up with a list of say 80 factors, 80 distinct properties, that are all simultaneously necessary for a plant to be truly habitable. Let's call this scenario B. So what is the effect in scenario A, versus 80 in scenario B? Well, for simplicity, let's imagine that each of these factors has So for example, the first factor is the probability of a planet Which coincidentally, is In scenario A, we have So the final probability is one half multiplied which we can write is one Working that out, that gives us a final probability of 1/16th or 6.25%. Okay, so unusual, but not extremely rare. Now let's try scenario B. With 80 factors, we have to do one half, but now to the power of 80, which equals one in a trillion trillion, or 10 to the power of -24. That's a number so ridiculously small that even considering every single star in the observable universe, you still wouldn't get Of course, the choice of in that example was entirely arbitrary. The real point of that little exercise was to highlight just how important the number of factors we I think often we get hung of those individual parameters, Should they be 1% or 10%? But in actuality, it's to argue about how many parameters should go into that Now, of course, we don't really know how many factors to include. Remember that these factors are intended to describe the different to make a planet capable If we had a proven, universal then we could figure out on the blackboard ab initio. But we don't. We know hardly anything In the absence of that, one might try looking at our own planet as a single data point and trying to extrapolate, what the conditions for life Of course, trying to extrapolate off a single data point And indeed, this is what that Ward and Brownlee are really doing. And whilst they have reasonable arguments for the factors they we've seen how there's considerable debate about them as well. Furthermore, there's no until we start to detecting And I think this is where my The whole philosophy of as an idealized example is inherently, inherently, It tacitly endorses a narrow perspective. One that assumes that the is the only way which That our experience, our through which sentiants can blossom. And look, we're all often guilty We base much of our philosophy of life upon our own direct experiences, ignoring the very disparate, that our fellow human A full understanding of and in terms of biology, requires a larger view, That might sound like I'm waxing a little over philosophically here. And sometimes I'm indulgent of that. But let me just illustrate a specific mathematical when it comes to the origins of life. Look, I can buy the argument are indeed the product of a series of highly improbable events. First, you need X, then you And as we add more and more terms, yes, I agree that probabilities But crucially, that recipe may not be the only path to intelligence. There may be entirely to arrive at a civilization. So for example, even might never have had a magnetosphere, it was a moon orbiting a giant planet. And thus, protected by the A completely alien setup, could eventually lead to intelligent life. Equations like the Drake Equation and the Rare Earth Equation assume an inherently Because remember each is conditional upon the previous one, forming an ever narrowing funnel towards something which But really, the search for isn't just a search for our doppelgangers, it's far broader than that. And so perhaps we should imagine adding some parallel For example, let's imagine that the planet had failed to form a large moon. That doesn't mean that the doors to intelligent life are closed. In fact, that closed door Another pathway towards intelligence that is distinct and In this way, we would have of the equation to itself. We no longer have a series No, now we have a sum of a Perhaps there's a few or perhaps there's a countless number. We simply don't know. And so, because of this, I to the Rare Earth Hypothesis. Now you might jump to the conclusion that I therefore believe there are lots of earths out there, right? I mean, if I don't believe in X, then surely that means I believe in the opposite of X, right? Sadly that's often become that the modern media often But it's a false dichotomy. In science, it's okay to remain until evidence is presented either way. And right now, we have no evidence. So I indeed withhold my belief. I'm not a skeptic, I'm not an advocate. I just await the result As I've spoken about I think this philosophy Consider that you tell yourself and others that you believe in say, despite the fact we have really no compelling evidence for it. Okay, fine. But now you face a when the data comes in, then maybe you see that you were wrong. And so often, so often there is nothing that we find harder in life than to admit that we were wrong. Especially if we express Instead, there is a tragic tendency to manipulate the information. To devise ever more elaborate narrative-fitting interpretations and to seek out any snippet, to agree with our initial preconception, even sometimes at a subconscious level. Because admitting that But believing that you And look in a way, I don't because hey, we all But the real point is when it comes to questions or the abundance of we have essentially no data. And so it's okay to withhold your belief until you see evidence either way. You don't have to plant a We'll get to the data on this one day, but it may be a very And yet, when that day comes let's make sure that we leave our preconceptions, And just listen into what the universe is saying to us with So until next time, stay (galactic music) Hey, thank you so much for This video is supported In fact, I wanna thank two that's Joseph Alexander to one of our new Illuminati-level donors, that is Mike Hedlund, thank If you too, wanna help us out, you can click the link up above and get access to special perks. And until next time, see (upbeat music)