It's the territory of phantoms. Scrub- and woodland flank narrow through the African savannah. The gallery forests These shadowy thickets next to ... offer unlimited niches This is the domain of a leopardess. In her realm she might be almost ... appearing out of nowhere, For some denizens of the forest Moving like a shadow ... ... she is the secret queen The coolest time of day. The leopardess has left for a few minutes of peace. Something her cub, playful at five is determined to interrupt. We are on the edge of a gallery During the night the leopardess After her dawn rest she carries It's not easy to drag between spindly olive branches. But they're the only trees here, That's why leopards always prefer And it soon becomes clear why Job done, she descends ... ... leaving him to eat. But as so often with leopard cubs, He's grounded his breakfast. His mother's used to it, But her attention is distracted. This could get tricky The cats don't realize the danger This time it's higher in the tree The boy was lucky too ... ... and after half an hour his The way down is head-first as ever. Now, in June, the brooks still But the grasslands beyond the thick So this forest offers more than From the largest ... ... to small, secretive ones that loves the nourishing buds it finds here in abundance. There's the cautious bushbuck, spending most of its time A dik-dik hides in the shade, But it needn't fear this hunter: the serval specialises in birds, Though baby gazelles are sometimes A fully grown reedbuck is well But it still keeps an eye There's plenty of prey in the grass The reedbucks are not in danger. Another family is on the hunt ... ... alerted by the leaping serval. It's a caracal mother This small, shy wild cat also prefers birds. The broken terrain, offer leopards excellent in the gallery forests. But any turn in the river can lions. And any chance they get, Leopard young are most at risk. But as long as his mother's with There's plenty of time He needs the training, and she up to a point. But when she goes hunting, he must stay behind. A cub would just get in the way. Leopard territories in the stretching alongside are mostly smaller than But being so narrow, they reach The leopardess will cover great Leopards hunt by day and by night, just like lions. And when she has young to feed, In the late morning she moves off, patrolling areas she has abandoned Soon she has spotted dik-diks. These shy little browsers live in Their senses are just as sharp as Any strange scent or instantly attracts their attention. The thicket has multiple eyes and like a single great alarm system. She can't afford to let But this time the warning worked. With so many animals on watch But the prey is easier Above her, Nubian woodpeckers and are busy feeding their chicks. The birds don't interest her, but their tree could be The climb was worth it. Down beside the brook No rush: reedbucks stay in place till they or until it gets too close. But once they're spotted, this response can play into Hugging the edge, skimming the shadows, she takes a long detour. For several minutes she'll But she has every reason to believe it'll still be there. Unfortunately, the last stretch A further detour. The reedbuck has sensed something. The vast majority of hunts But there's no sign of frustration. The border between bush creates many ecological niches. With abundant drinking water, these for many of the leopard's Impala antelopes eat grass Typical edge dwellers, they're at home both in the bush They don't try to hide in the instead females gather in herds Impalas and leopards have regular But in the daytime, the big herds are a tough too many eyes and ears. So the leopardess scans Thomson's gazelles are among the They prefer open habitats and rely Leopards can't match their sprints. But when conditions are right, First she needs a good starting One that offers cover Now, it's all about timing She'll wait until all the Tommies A gentle dip and a couple of are all the cover she needs now. Most grazers have virtually They're very sensitive to movement. Keeping all the gazelles she moves in, step by step, A stalk like this can last The slightest mistake will Finally, she's close enough - and all heads are down. The lashing hooves could deliver But she knows how to Attacks like these come for the herbivores near the brook. For the next few days, mother She won't come back here soon, to give the prey time to forget A week later the leopardess is He will soon know her territory Protecting their young is a continuing challenge She has learned one solution Put him in an abandoned She has several such hiding So wherever she goes hunting, The francolin is But you never know what might On his own he's not too keen, A shady place next to the shelter By now, in August, many of the But these forays are still She knows where the water is. The open savannah is hot, The grass has been chewed short, offering little nourishment The gallery forest beckons, and the last sources The heat seems to be getting Even the secretary bird The vibrations and the noise It's good to have His mother isn't worried She's fixed on something else. Two steenboks grazing close by. In the dry season these little They too are in search of But the presence of the elephants and gives the leopardess away. Further effort would be She won't catch them off guard now. Best to start again somewhere else. Like a shadow she moves to another where she hasn't been seen Always looking for prey This freshening wind may help her, rustling leaves drown out And scents travel further. She's got wind of a reedbuck. Hard to find between She lurks for minutes - Only when the buck gets up, She doesn't even try The chance is gone. But she won't give up. There's plenty of other prey And there's a cub, All morning she goes about a movement, a swirl of air - the presence of prey. She's down low - ready to strike. But any wrong movement since she has no visual contact. She mustn't stay away too long. With an impatient son. Time is gnawing at him. Early that afternoon Like a ghost, without a sound, In this thicket, hunter and hunted can miss each other by centimetres. At last! Hours of work have brought that she'll share with her son. For a leopard big prey and this is the rule. The son seems more delighted than by her gift! But now ... he can play-practise his own hunt! Young leopards rarely see That means they can't copy So his reactions And those instincts clearly direct By the end of September there's Everything slows down. The leathery leaves of the ebony But the brooks and pools are dry. Just a little grass is left. Time to move, to another The family take a short-cut across This country is empty, Without cover, it's not ideal But it might serve ... ... for hunting practice! If only the real thing Out here they're vulnerable. That suits the leopardess Above all, she doesn't want to with her son in tow. Perhaps he senses, she's unsure. She spots a wart-hog hole for a vulnerable piglet, or The family that used this one, After a tiring walk they come to Where there's still a trickle In places the trees meet That's where the gallery In the twilight a pied kingfisher that have gathered in The leopardess hasn't visited She must get her bearings, and she must make sure there are The sounds of fishing waterbirds tell her, this is But other leopards - or lions - could have taken over So she carefully scans for Exhausted by the long trek, His mother needs to find him so she can carry on hunting. She's quite happy to take over from its rightful owners. With the boy settled, What can this part of Vultures are proof that However, there can be It depends who else is here ... This needs a closer look. A leopard won't reject But she's always on her guard So she won't expose The vultures have done a good job but there's enough left. Unfortunately, the big carcass is She doesn't mind vultures But there might be bigger, So she takes in some fast food, nervously peering In October the first warthog litters are born Especially sensitive these babies now seek Over their first days, they spend This mother has chosen because, being taller, they are But piglets can be annoying - and can get injured. So they should all keep a As their mother makes For the leopardess, the arrival is an important signal. These new families will be helpful A leopardess can't challenge And on the open savannah she has no real chance of getting Females don't take their baby ... so they can escape in a second A fully-grown warthog is a Leopards will avoid the sharp tusks As the sun beats down Unable to regulate they must return to the shady With their attentive mother there's nothing here But then chance lends a hand. The first babies of the season stir a lot of excitement With so many hogs together, too much curiosity can result in from the mothers. Suddenly warthogs are chasing piglets have been killed Despite its mother this piglet has to run It just makes it into the cover This is a chance for if she gets to the piglet first, But she should avoid Unfortunately, the good grass has lured many of There's no fooling around It's hard to say, Just this second the piglet Back to hunting mode! The young one has left the bush She must hurry now. But the little one is already back Not so easy now. But this time the leopardess Perhaps this is an inexperienced It's still early afternoon. Sometimes females leave their young when they go for an evening graze. So, there's hope yet. This has been a busy Mother and piglet withdraw Once more, her hard work As so often when big cats hunt. A few weeks later. It's the short rainy season and the grass is back Herbivores can build up and replenish their reserves. The rivers have filled up. Hippos have walked for kilometres But it's a season of conflict Nights in the highlands and mothers fight over holes One will frequently try Without a safe hideaway, piglets can die of cold in these The holes become important meeting And that presents fresh But there's no hurry. This is going to be a lucky dip. For weeks, grey clouds hang Most days bring cold showers. The Leopardess takes the bad watching the mother warthogs for their young. Warthogs don't have and now the competition for holes because the young of the previous Damp days are good days She just has to find the right This family group is still but the piglets are too well The rain has stopped. In the strong wind, a number of grazing mothers have But there are so many holes! And not every warthog An encounter with a tough hog When it gets warmer, she'll have less chance of finding It's becoming a race against time Each check is brief. Nothing here. Move on ... And finally: a warthog mother has abandoned Now the leopardess must make sure A disaster for the warthog family, is a couple of days' food for It's a long trek back to her son, as he waits patiently in the ... on another wet and But the downpours make and that's why the warthogs give The young leopard doesn't mind he's fine with the all the prey Unlike herbivores, the great predators have no fixed Many cubs die young, so mothers can't afford to wait They'll mate again For herbivores, on the other hand, a steady food supply even if their young suffer Once a leopard cub is past even a deluge doesn't lower his to harm him. She's relaxed: her son is safe And new-born herbivores will make in the coming weeks. Mother and son now disappear ... in the dense, green Invisible phantoms But the adventure continues. The leopard family ... and perilous encounters. The family grows larger ... ... and the older son must make to adulthood. Northern Serengeti. A quiet brook. Its banks are lined A confusion of waterways, and tall trees that It's the home of a leopardess. She has brought up a son here. Now roughly a year old, he looks But he's still playful He's survived the toughest Now he confidently explores interested in everything. In late July the great wildebeest from Tanzania into Kenya, streaming ... and into Mother and son are on high alert. Wildebeest calves Not only for leopards. Lions hunt in the bush too. Big cats can take each other All the big predators because they compete for Right now the leopard is So is the lioness. At the last moment she senses, The lioness got there first. But She wouldn't win a Her son does the right thing, Bad luck with the hunt, good luck No feast today. They make do with the remains Even though they hunt together, the older her son gets, the less Caring for him is hard work, When the cupboard is bare every sliver of bone counts. But for the next three months, there are enough successful to feed herself and her son. And he spends much of his time high looking out for smaller prey. In September, when the migration bringing the wildebeest back it's time for the leopardess An adult reedbuck is plenty of food The male can eat Now a year and a half old, almost as big as his mother. If it were up to him, their relationship could continue But the comfortable stay at Hotel She has a gentleman caller. An imposing figure of an adult male in his prime. Males cruise their territories on the lookout for opportunities Scent marks she's been spreading, Around this time the leopardess and often roams alone. She even loses interest in hunting. She could easily have crept up on from her cover in the bushes, She wanders through her domain for Changes are on the way And a few days later ... A rare sight: a leopard couple Leopards join leopardesses when the female is receptive. It's almost the only chance to see In a glade of the gallery They'll mate frequently for days. Multiple couplings are necessary So for a few days there's plenty Her son is still at their base He now has his mother's The mighty male mating with his The youngster is wise to His neighbours the grey-backed fiscals are not He's gorging himself right next to With these fiscals, the last brood and help to raise That's why so many birds He's had enough. While he looks for a shady place the food delivery is picked up He finds a secluded spot ... while kilometres away his mother and her mate Leopard mating is not In contrast to their And they haven't finished yet. Not by a long way. The noisy honeymoon is audible And it draws the attention What she hears is: two competitors. And they're distracted. The male takes a break. For a while it's quiet The lioness may lose track But it won't be silent here Are these bitten ears Since lions and leopards ... this could be just the moment That was close! For now, the honeymoon is over. At the end of October the rainy season once again The great leopard male is far away, His range covers those He will keep moving, to find His task in life is to survive But in weather like this even he The downpour transforms the gallery Used to crossing dry river-beds, this giraffe now encounters It looks like it needs a while This could be why. The crocodiles spent their dry in the riverbanks. But they're patient. A giraffe is a lot of work. The leopardess now spends She still needs to look but he's beginning to fend Leopards are loners. As the rain falls, tiny rivulets New waterways form day by day. Linking the different they become highways An irresistible scent tempts the ancient reptile A hippo has died here. A mountain of meat ... ... that the giant catfish But the hippo's skin is too tough. They'll have to wait. At first, even the crocodile But it's better than nothing and his digestive juices will And now, it's on a roll. The leopardess's territory now offers enough food High water levels and rich to the riverbank. The pools are cloudy from sediment Water full of fish, frogs and insect larvae. The saddle-bill stork senses fishy extra-attuned to movement. It can't expect to see prey Each bird has its own technique The hamerkop seeks its victims Or... wherever there's the The little lesser-striped swallows for the nests they build Meanwhile, grey-headed kingfishers in their nests. And the Egyptian geese let their Everyone works with ... and in the way that suits them. In the succulent green bushland ... ... the young leopard is surrounded The fig trees above all attract ...like these African That's nothing for him. But the tree is a great lookout All around him, animals are enjoying the rich gifts And that's not only true Insects offer an inexhaustible And beyond the bush, on the ...it's the high point of the The impalas roam far and wide... With no shortage of grass... ...right now, they have no need to The kori bustard just Specifically for females Everywhere fawns and calves This Thomson's gazelle comes into when the predators are resting, It'll spend the next few weeks in an environment entirely Impala mothers have another way At first they hide their young ...leading them out On the return journey There is no time to waste to get For the young leopard these weeks But he still has a lot to learn. That fawn has disappeared, as He knows the baby must be But the mother antelope knows The young leopard isn't paying Cleverly the mother tempts him from the hiding place. He tries to cut her off. No good. The experienced impala mother Now he'd need a huge amount of luck He knows better than to try. January. Four months on... The leopardess has hidden her new ...licked clean, with no scent - and little danger She stays away as much as possible, so as not to betray In the daytime she's The two baby females are alone It's the perfect nursery. Utterly inaccessible, The branches pen the cubs like bars on a baby's cot. During the day the leopardess In the late afternoon it's time She doesn't follow but takes the direct route, The last thing she needs But today, the danger The old adversaries are The leopardess is focussed waiting for her in the thicket, It's late; she doesn't Again, at the last moment her sharp Neither cat is a particularly especially over long distances. They're too far apart for this The leopardess runs. And the lioness chases. Just to make a point. The leopardess won't risk until her competitor The next morning she's After suckling the babies, once more clearing their scent. The cubs are now ten days old. They have only just opened their But they are housetrained, The trouble is, soiling outside the hideout So, the mother moves When she grips them on the neck, the babies fall into a carrying She's in a hurry now. She wouldn't want to be caught It's always possible the lioness With one done, she comes But this was a good hiding place - in fact it's quite tricky Finally she threads her She brings the young'un together This time in the safety These holes are valuable ...where her young will be They become very elusive now, in secret hiding places in the These are the most dangerous weeks Rain, cold and rival cats take Three months later: the young family has survived Both cubs are healthy They're not used to open grassland The impala buck is uneasy as well. These are leopards! Up to now the cubs have spent in the dense thicket Now the leopardess takes them she's avoided since the sudden In the fissures of the she knowns dozens where her offspring will be safe. The terrain around the brook is an exciting adventure playground Irresistibly curious, they follow There's so much to discover... But their mother knows: not every They should stay close. And the leopardess is always For instance, baboons can be very aggressive Strong males can spell Here, the monkeys haven't And the cubs have no idea how to behave They're seeing these animals The baboons have young too... ...with her cubs in tow she'd Now the baboons have noticed She hurries to make space, so the It's all a little much A kilometre on, she calls a halt, and revives them with a healthy They're being watched. Soon the cubs are back on form, A male leopard at the edge is keeping them in his sights. The leopard mother is fully aware Like all big cats, leopard males can be dangerous She'll keep a close eye on him. As evening comes, the male Finally the female decides The cubs don't seem to notice This is her older son, in familiar territory. He's anything but welcome! Any male in the vicinity He is uncertain. Then something unexpected happens. One of the cubs simply goes up who it's probably seeing Intimidated by his mother, he daren't accept the youngster's He fears his angry mother but wants to stay in this The second cub tries to win but mother is not amused! The adult son mustn't The leopardess is uncertain, too. She breaks eye contact and, in a peace offering, The cubs don't give up. Now the first one rejoins the game! A difficult moment for big brother. His mother could interpret He must leave. She needs all her territory to raise the new generation. The young male will spend seeking a territory not claimed He'll make it through by killing and is soon far away He must obey strict rules on One is: stay clear of There's no fooling ...and the hyenas judge Not a good place He moves on. On his way he prefers areas that remind him of places So he mostly follows thickets, It's harder for a young male than for a young female. Daughters are often tolerated at the edge of her range. They may even take over Sons, though, seek their and at the same time They need to travel far enough They also have to conquer that cover many female ranges. All this makes it harder He may be trying for years, and many a hopeful youngster He's distracted by a male impala... ...noisily trying to keep the under control. If males really fight, there can be an exhausted It's worth waiting for the result. But here the challenger thinks and the buck sees him off Nothing here for him. His search for a new home through the northern Serengeti. In the Masai Mara ebony brushland has spread over That's why, though he is almost 20 kilometres the environment looks These bull giraffes can't seem to They've been at it for hours. They're young, ardent, Older bulls are hardly ever and certainly not for so long! He's fascinated: strange creatures, At dusk, many ungulates gather sharing eyes and ears The zebras seem to have picked up In the last rays of twilight for the vigil of the night. Even the combative giraffes For the leopard this is the most The herd of impala females But there are young bachelor males, They might wander carelessly close He may not yet have the massive but by now, he's an experienced, and it could be time for his The bucks are heavier than he is, But he can't ignore this chance. Perhaps he chose the wrong victim? But if this is a test, This triumph will boost and greatly improve his chances in the territorial disputes Many kilometres away, beside the brook that was his home his mother is raising the twins as devotedly as she did The two cubs are healthy Once again, an impala The youngsters dig in, but they're not especially hungry, Everything is fine. And even at this tender age each Leopard cubs play far less When they grow up, they will be For a long time to come, she will If all goes well, her daughters may one day inherit To become, in their turn, the elusive queens