William: Welcome. The cease-fire between the Israeli and Lebanese governments and including the militant group Hezbollah that went into effect early this morning appears to be holding. We spoke to the security official who helped secure the deal. Reporter: Today in southern Lebanon, a rare and precious feeling, hope. Families displaced by 40 months of war rushed to return home. Lebanese soldiers rushed to the country's borders, the first step in implementing the cease-fire. A celebration of its destruction. They said the U.S. Designated terrorist group into the war with victory but I great cost. The united nations says airstrikes damaged or destroyed nearly 25,000 homes. &gt;&gt; I have no other place to stay so I am forced to do this. We say that as long as we are safe, everything can be compensated. Reporter: On the Israeli side of the border, soldiers today patrolled through areas no longer under rocket fire. Inside Lebanon, Israeli commanders plan to withdraw, also claiming a form of victory, killing most of the leadership of Hezbollah and removing their weapons from near the border. For the more than 60,000 Israelis who fled at their home last October, some have nothing to return to and they feel skeptical that the cease-fire can hold. &gt;&gt; We fear that Hezbollah will start again to build forces. Reporter: The agreement calls for the Israeli withdrawal to conclude within 60 days, alongside Hezbollah moving fighters north about 17 miles north of the border. I am joined by the special envoy who led the negotiations. Thank you very much. It has been a bout a day since you announced the cease-fire. Is it holding so far? &gt;&gt; So far it is holding. A couple of little things here and there to be expected on day one. I think of most importantly at about 9:00 P.M. Our time, 4:00 P.M. Local time, people woke up to the first time in almost 14 months without bombardments, raise, sirens, drones, etc. For most of the people living in south Lebanon and northern Israel, this is been a mineable day. Reporter: One of the key differences between this agreement and the one that ended the last war is for the U.S. To chair a mechanism that will monitor and judge violations on both sides. The first question is will that chair be a U.S. Military official? &gt;&gt; The chair will be both from the U.S. Military and civilian foreign policy national security apparatus. They will look at the monitoring and making sure any violation is repeated immediately. And dealt with immediately. Not by us but by a Lebanese security forces. Reporter: Some in Lebanon fear that the U.S. Is chairing the mechanism is primarily designed to call out Hezbollah operations and therefore provide a green light to Israeli military operations in Lebanon. How can you assure parties in Lebanon and Jan that that is the case? &gt;&gt; I have spent a lot of time in Lebanon throughout the years. Most Lebanese were demanding that the USB that chair of this. During negotiations, every one of the parties except Hezbollah wanted the U.S. The on the committee. I think they know that we can work both with the Israelis and Lebanon. The U.S. Has been the largest supporter and trainer of the Lebanese armed forces over the years. More than any other country. I think there is a lot of trust. Reporter: There is a letter of assurance to Israel. Have you given them wide discretion? &gt;&gt; The agreement has now become a public document. It says that Lebanon and Israel retain the right to self-defense as prescribed under international law. The president of the U.S. Yesterday specifically said that if there are any violations that pose a direct threat to Israel, meaning that it has not been handled through the mechanism, they would have the right to defend themselves under international law. That is our commitment. We did not make that a secret. That is part of the agreement. The expectation is that the Lebanese army will be able to prevent such violations and if they do happen, they will be mitigated or destroyed or dismantled or discouraged in a matter that -- mayor that does not require anyone else to take any other military actions. That is the goal of Israel and the Lebanon and the mechanism we will be chairing. Reporter: You have mentioned the Lebanese armed forces. They will have to secure southern Lebanon and all of Lebanon's borders with some 10,000 forces. Officials have long said they do not have the resources to be able to do that. How will you help get them there? &gt;&gt; If you see the agreement, what I tried to do in this document was to learn the lessons from mistakes that was made earlier. There was no implementation. It called for things that even at the time were not realistic. It called for 15,000 Lebanese army troops. Not possible. The cease-fire that has now going to affect means and nobody is shooting anymore. But the Israeli military is still in Lebanon. They will withdraw in phases. Within the next couple of weeks as the Lebanese army advances to the south and deploys there. The reason for that as they do not have the capacity. What I see happening is about 5000 Lebanese troops will be deployed to the south in the coming 60 days and then and the several months after that, we will do additional recruiting and training of more troops to be able to go down south and get from 5000 to 7000 to 8000, etc. It will probably take over a year to get the 10,000. Reporter: Beyond the question of capability, I want to ask about political will and maneuverability for the Lebanese armed versus given Hezbollah's political strength. Will they really be able to take on Hezbollah? &gt;&gt; You talked earlier about the mechanism. There is another big difference. The end of the war in 2006, Hezbollah arguably fought Israel to a draw. That is not the case here. They are extremely weak at the moment. They have lost military and political capacity. Their leadership has been decimated. Much of the leadership that has been there for the past several decades is not there. There is a moment of opportunity for Lebanon to rise up and establish the sovereignty of the state, the strength of the state. That is what we intend to help together with the French and other allies to help the Lebanese do. Not just supporting them with the resources and commitment that T Ty need but also the economy of Lebanon to rebuild and continue prosperity. Reporter: What is preventing Iran from filling in those gaps that Hezbollah has? &gt;&gt; They are going to try but I would say that Iran is significantly weaker today than they have been. Part of this agreement is to make sure that the rearming which happens from Iran through Syria is at least diminished and slow down if not eliminated? Reporter: Who is responsible for that interdicting of weapons? Will Russia play a part of that? &gt;&gt; There are a couple of parts of this. Part is what happens inside Syria and what happens in Lebanon. This agreement is about what is happening inside Lebanon. The agreement calls for the Lebanese state to take control of all border crossings. Authorized and unauthorized. The Lebanese army and there are other security services responsible for those border crossings to make sure that they assert control. There is a second question of what happens inside Syria. That is a matter for a different conversation on a different day. Reporter: Thank you very much. &gt;&gt; Thank you. Take care.