Intoxication is the nature of the moon tch, May 10th is it's called Buddha Pournami. This is the day Gautama, This year it's on 10th of May. This full moon day There are many aspects to his life- the most that's not his name. His name is Buddha means- he transcended his intellect. Buddhi means the intellect; dhadha means one who One who is in his intellect is a non-stop Something happens they suffer, nothing happens That is if you are below the mind we call them buddhu If you are above the mind, you are a Buddha, if you are in the mind, you are non-stop suffering So how did he become this? He was a prince of a small princely state. Because some yogi predicted that this will either When he made this prediction, He did not want him to become a great sage; So he decided he will not expose him to... suffering or misery, he may turn into a sage. So he kept him in utter pleasure- the best When he was eight... nineteen years of age, Kept him in a palace secluded form the rest never exposed to any kind of suffering. One day he thought he will just take a drive through So he was going and then he saw a man who So he had never seen a old man in his life, He said, 'what happened to him?' So the 'How does it happen' he asked. He looked at himself, he was a nice youth. 'What! They live long enough, they get old.' I will become like this (Gestures). Then he saw a man lying on the street who was ill He said, 'stop! What is this guy? What's he doing?' 'What does that mean?' He said, 'a body, It can happen to just anybody.' 'Me? A Prince! Then he saw, oh! I can become like this. Then they were going further, he was completely they were carrying a dead body of a man. 'What does that mean?' 'That happens to everybody Just eating, pleasures, nonsense, And he struggled; he went This suddenly being a prince and these pleasures broke apart for him and he started looking, what This (Referring to Oneself) is going to get What am I investing my entire life in this? Tch, he looked at his wife and his child, he could not leave. He struggled and struggled and passed. When the boy was one-and-a-half years of age, In the middle of the night, like a thief, without telling He went in search; I want to know the truth these are times when different At one point there were over 1800 schools, 1800 different ways of doing things, 1800 Not the kind that you are seeing in California, doing like this (Gestures), really intricate It is like how the Medical Science is becoming today. All you needed was your family doctor. Today I was few years ago I had a, you know, I had a knee injury And I was all packed up and I was speaking, that's how (Few laugh) Somebody told me... gifted me too old for any other game (Few laugh), you So I was sitting there in Atlanta and talking, speaking So, after the... when this is over... I mean when I was speaking, one person raised But then he said, 'Sadhguru I would like to examine I said, 'come on, you are an orthopedic.' Said, 'no, no, Which one are you?' So specialization, A time will come probably in fifty years' need one hundred doctors to check you. By the time you get these one hundred appointments Then it'll become ridiculous. Okay you went to three If it becomes fifty-hundred doctors for a This happened to yogic system- people started Each specialization has a whole thing by itself. Someone just came and told me, there are dentist... For example dentistry, just thirty-two teeth, Thirty-two teeth, nine years of study still they don't If you start studying one tooth at a time, you will see You... somebody can spend a lifetime of study you had thirty-two dentist to look into your So as specialization, specialization happens, This happened to yoga. It crossed that point where 1800 So that is when Patanjali came and kind of minimize this expanse that was growing endlessly. So when Gautam came, it was post-Patanjali So he went from school to school. We are talking about Samadhi, okay (Laughs)? He pursued eight different forms of Samadhi. He saw all but still it did not liberate him. So in this There is a certain system of practice Their fundamental practice is this- they will never ask because they want to beat No matter what you are always going in pursuit You may complicate it in so many ways but about economy means you're just thinking Survival glorified, but still it is survival. So one fundamental sadhana for them is, you you simply keep going. So Samanas used to just walk, But the culture was sensitive, if they saw at home and run behind him and serve him wherever Today if you become a Samana, you will walk Those days people were sensitive to his sadhana So, there were thousands of Samanas walking So Gautama became a Samana and even if you Tch, so that food will come. He became all bones, just bones and a bag Then he came to a place where there was a river is gone now, no more river. Just about eighteen-to-twenty inches of water, He stepped into it, halfway down into the There was a tree branch, a dead branch, he He doesn't have the strength to take the He held on, we don't know for how long, people when you are feeling so weak, those two minutes Then as he hung on, he just realized what What is it I'm wandering the entire country, what is it that I'm looking for? Then he realized, All I have to do is just take away the barriers When he realized that everything is within him, there the next step and the next step. He crossed the river, Bodhi tree, which has become more famous A part of the tree, a remnant or a... a progeny and he sat under the tree, it was this full moon He sat there and he sat there with this determination- existence now or I will sit here and die, Once he made that resolve, because the only minutes your intentions are changing. If you are totally on, to know what is within It should happen in a moment, isn't it? Time is a quantity which is necessary only If there is no distance to travel, if I ask You're already siting, it's already there. So you are already alive and on, it doesn't don't have to do anything particular. When he saw this, he was fully enlightened for many months on end properly, years actually, And people around him, he had gathered about he's real because he doesn't eat, he's And they saw, he's in some state, exuberant Then they were waiting for him to open his He opened his eyes, looked at them, smiled They were totally disappointed, they thought They walked with him for four to eight years When he got enlightened, they left him (Few laugh) He said, 'cook something, let's eat.' There are many beautiful episodes in his life after he has become a Buddha and went and Tree not because tree is the best place to Because that was the there were no buildings So tree was a good place, a pleasant place to sit under An astrologer, who is of great proficiency he had come to... In India people of any this Those rivers are going away, I will tell you So, he came for a bath to the river then he saw the through which by looking at the way one's feet So he saw the footprint and then he saw somebody who should rule the world. Then he wondered, why would such a person Then he followed the footprint thinking he Then he saw this monk- Then he looked at this, this... he thought or I'm being fooled or I'm in some kind of a Then he went to Gautama and asked, Gautama was tch, in this kind of, Jasjeet (Few laugh), he said, 'I'm nobody. I'm just a nobody.' You should conquer the world. See, there are two ways you can have the world, I can make you yours, either by capturing or by including you as a part of myself, yes? Both But if you go by conquest, it will be a pain If you include, this will become a great enhancement Then he said, 'you are a monk! I own nothing and I am a nobody Even mathematicians are trying to teach you So you becoming a no-thing You are a no-thing means you've become all inclusive, You are a no-thing; you can be any way you want. is not curtailed, you can be anything So Gautama said, 'I'm anyway the emperor I'm actually a nobody because everything If you see I'm responsible for everything, everything Hmm? Because you own them Because you take responsibility for them, If you own them forcefully, they will never Sadhguru: If you forcefully own somebody, They'll never ever be yours. He said, 'you are a monk, you have nothing, to a Participant), I'm sorry (Few laugh), and everything is yours' what is this? Gautama said, You are busy making predictions of life. I have a plan.' You are incapable of making a plan and executing predictions, isn't it? Yes or no? If you are capable of making a plan and executing Participants: No! Sadhguru: No. So, Gautama said, 'you are busy making predictions. Come... become a part of my plan. You must become a part of this plan. This same world, this same world can be turned by a paradise plan, isn't it? Yes or no? do that... because between a possibility Are... do we have the courage and the commitment to