Breaking demonic strongholds. The battle many healed or on the way to deliverance and healing one of the most powerful testimonies I've heard in heard of this testimony. It's a young girl who had of her when she was sitting on the horse and the kicked her out and she fell as a young girl, she developed seizures grand mal seizures. and then they intensified. She couldn't go to her a little seizures and so they had to pull her the doctor decided to do a surgery on her actually intensified her seizures and it didn't she's watching television and on the television, a word of knowledge and says, I see a horse, the horse and God is healing you. So she listens from God, claims the healing, didn't feel anything for the next month, for the first time in all God supernaturally heals her. Now, 30 days seizure. As she is on the floor having a seizure, in her mind there's a battle. The God didn't heal me. The another thought seizure. I remember hearing her testimony and this I chose to believe, I was healed. I didn't its place of influence. I didn't deny its I got up from that seizure instead of this is not my portion. I was healed. I don't am. That was the last seizure she had again. A lot of times people get healed and you get delivered and the same demons that were on that they are on the inside. Because when they are on the inside. But when they are on the outside, it messes with people and sometimes, they're like, back for the deliverance but you must understand be broken when you get delivered and when you get your identity. He wants you to go back to Egypt deliverance. When sometimes you got to go forward that old Pharaoh in the Red Sea and the enemy Somebody say, break the stronghold. In the only once. The concept is all over the Bible going to read to you the famous verse that we &quot;For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal casting down arguments and every high thing bringing every thought into captivity to the just a context of this. In the context, pulling resistance in people's minds, particularly how and the nature of his apostleship. That's why you his apostleship to this group of people. So he's their minds. A stronghold if you're taking builds in our mind and emotions. It's a place imprisonment or incarceration in your thinking for you. Now interesting that overlooking ancient the top of that, was a fortress. So Paul uses the To destroy strongholds, cast down towers and to on the top of the hill and sometimes in that talking to Corinthians using the imagery that they captives inside of the fortress on the hill. He we're bringing down those strongholds and we are Christ. If you're taking notes, write down point strongman, a demon lives in a stronghold, house enter a strong man's house? Have you noticed that strong man's house and carry off his possessions over quickly on the difference between open lay a foundation for this understanding. An open how they stay. An open door really there's three things. There is the things that are involved and things that are called intrusion. So inherited the bloodline. The involvement is when you're intrusion is when demons intrude usually through you and demons can use that as an opening. Think to demons is an opening. How demons stay, how you have a renter that lives in your house. They front door but they usually have a room that they get through an open door. They don't stay through usually a place, a room and the Bible calls that in our emotions and we mention a few types of anger, rejection, depression, abuse and Write this down, anger, rejection, depression, how they stay. They get in through an open What gives them a place to stay is the stronghold the door but we do not remove their room, we demon. Think of Israel. Illustration. Israel came land. They were always in pain and suffering. it was wilderness. No the two men, Caleb and can take somebody out of a ghetto. Taking a ghetto you can take somebody out of Egypt. Taking what the enemy is interested a stronghold so when he leaves, you're still to torment you and it gives him a place to again. The strongholds, demolishing them is very the devil a foothold. Now, some of us, we use that an opportunity but that word there 'a foothold' a specific marked off geographical location. It zone or geographical position. It deals more than we can all sometimes potentially. For example, the door stays open. This doesn't mean that a if you do all of these sins, this is how the the case because you can meet people who did in. Why? Few reasons. How you grow up, you're build by building your self-esteem as a child Demons do not violate somebody's will. That's sin and you absolutely don't see a demon getting the same and boom, they got a demon. One person person watches porn one time like it happened I asked this person who has done over I think why is that that a one person can do this sin and same sin and they don't seem to get a demon, is it true or maybe the demon is hiding? And says, think of immune system. One person can sick. The other person can come in contact with immune system that the person has. That's why train them in the ways of God. If they ever get or come in contact that doesn't always mean that, a spiritual immune system that's built. It them. When you praise God, when you you're building a spiritual immune fall and touch something that is not right. you ask the blood of Jesus Christ to wash is that? Because you have a spiritual a license to sin. It just gives you power somebody. So the Bible says do not devil a room as part of a stronghold mind. An open door is how demons get in in. Demons are cast out but strongholds as we've down. Now let me give you an example. Let's say renters living there and on top of that, not only there but underground, you found out there's completely demolished. There's two things you renters. It does not destroy the house. You stands. You evict the renters and then strongholds down. Now how many of you know it's Now of course and I mean respectfully, when I'm or anything like that but it's easier to bring the house down. To demolish a house takes a lot of difficult. They pack the bags and they leave. The For them to bring that hotel down, will take a brought down slowly but people come in quickly quickly and demons usually get out quickly but it's not an easy process which is why it with something I'm going to deal with right your life but he actually also wants to build he comes to steal, kill and destroy John 10:10. also building something. He's building, I like mindsets. He will sometimes even use what the truth to break down the stronghold. It is but the truth fights what is true, subdues what than the facts and the physical realm that we was here and I mentioned about a fish. They did a not born again. It eats other fish for living, fish world. They put a Barracuda fish into a fish Barracuda fish thanked God for lunch and went is they put a glass in the fish tank and they put of course, Barracuda fish saw the lunch and next time remembering the fact that there's time even slower and after a few days, Barracuda and then they removed the glass and side. Why? Because when you fail so many times built. What are you being building? Failure. one way that the enemy is destroying and while he's building something. Fear, anger, depression. way, he is building our life. They did a study took five homeless people and they decided to do put the millionaires in a homelessness position think it was five people that they did a study people who received a million dollar not only they suicide. All the five millionaires when they went could not do a business they did before and number contacts. Within five years, most of them were but everybody was out of the streets within about to this conclusion. Being a millionaire mind. Something that might offend you right now do with money, it has a lot to do... I didn't That's one of the reasons people who win lotteries who are successful basketball players and you see That's why Shaquille O'Neal, when he received minutes and his financial adviser called him and statistic like all of your other predecessors and his masters and then got his PhD in finance and he's a great basketball player but because he mind changes. It almost like it becomes a magnet and the Bible's been telling us this for a long not be conformed to this world but be transformed really believe in our subconscious level that you life and we tell God, you heal me and then I'll I'll be happy. God, give me a husband and then around. The devil has used your situation today the strongholds are coming down. Come down. The Bible uses I think it's five mindsets. Number two is a sober mind Titus 1:8. mind Romans 8:6. Anxious mind Luke 12:29. Romans 8:6 which tells me that this is not an anxious thought. When you have an anxious mind are anxiety. When you have a debased mind are twisted. When you have a carnal mind are carnal. The sound mind meaning, the dominant it doesn't just refers to random thoughts, that dominate your mind. If you look at this with and I'm not talking about the thoughts thoughts that kind of think on their own. It's the kind of you hear stuff, it's your subconscious of does this. It's the automatic responses. It's to break and build healthy strongholds that we have a stronghold of peace, that we scripture says, you shall know the truth John verses later John 8:36 and if the Son sets you the name of Jesus removes demons but strongholds in one breath Jesus said, whom the Son sets free My name drives out demons but then He says, if will set you free. So I don't get it. So is it's both because if you understand that demons build in people's minds and what breaks those much it is the truth of Jesus, the word of God. stronghold. Buddha said, I'm the seeker of truth said, I am the truth. My words are life. My words He always pointed them to Himself. He follow Me. I am the truth. Something happens when expels demons in the power of the Holy Spirit the principles of Jesus that have a life inside. written thousands of years ago. See this book says God did that to a corpse, it became living soul. received the Holy Ghost and then God went into a Spirit of God. You inhale the truth of God. You why it comes alive every time you read it. That's when you memorize it, it cleanses you from sin. sin against you. The sword of the Spirit is the but by every word that proceeds from the mouth than any two edged sword. Something happens when inside of your system, breaks down strongholds, breaks down abuse, breaks down rejection, breaks down things people said about you, layer by down. Somebody shout, the truth doesn't set you free. The knowledge. You skunk because soap doesn't make you clean. why Jesus didn't say the truth sets you free. He the truth that cannot help you. You can have it Advil doesn't work in the bottle, it only works in it has to go from the pages to my thoughts, gallons of white paint, the color of your change when you apply that paint on every piece the truth but He says if you don't know it, if you. I was born and my parents told me that my next two years, I spent in a hospital. In the hospital and my uncle, my pastor prayed for to life. As a teenager when I grew up, I grew I didn't know that was bullying until I came to how you treat deformed children and I felt I was saw that I struggled and they scheduled the first successful because afterwards so my problem is the other one resists. Just looks straight, my instructions so the doctors tried to fix that, I'm 13 years of age. I don't speak any English. I I grew up with were my two neighbors and they're My pastor starts a church and the church that they have worship clapping. I grew up in a very no earrings, no clapping, no drums and none of clapping. Now, I was conditioned that clapping I'm experiencing culture shock. I'm experiencing teacher speaks in a language I do not understand Slavic Russian churches in the community quickly We were not allowed to shake their hands with was normal for stuff being thrown in my face from I had to leave those buses so that I don't get top of that because my optical nerve was damaged, my head gets exposed to the sun. I'm 13 and a and scared of people. I was actually skipping I found out and I heard that the teacher said, class and talk for a minute and 20 seconds about people that I spent that day on the bus station. my subconscious that God made a mistake when He East and the Soviet Union and all of the stuff and do? Let's keep him until he dies and in heaven, theology about me. So when a preacher would get up ear... went the other one. I had an issue with Why did He allow me to be born like that? Did I do wrong that He wanted to... I don't know punish me prayer at the age of 13 and a half and 14 became this world because it's better with me not in it. Nobody else wants me to be here. I don't belong party I would come, I felt rejected. In fact, what I would come, I would look at people and I would I met somebody the first question they would what do you mean? With your eyes. To me, it ask my name, they asked what happened to me. I became conscious reminded me, something is wrong surgery at the age of 13 and a half in the United it would look similar. It didn't work. The doctor Lift it higher but when you sleep, your eye won't insecure is one thing. Looking scary for my future My only place where I thought I could belong It's a charismatic church you know like this didn't feel like I fully belonged but I said okay. and there was only one really place you can be this young worship team. So my hope was... I was This is one place I'm going to be good at and I'm meaning at the time in our church, the church was I was so excited. I found an ounce of hope until was asked to leave this worship team and these we don't know how to tell you but you're not microphone. Let me be there. They said, your I wept going from that apartment back home. The failed. I was hoping for an accident. Taking I don't want to commit that but if God does of me when I was lying on a swing, it was an and I hoped that mine will be quick as well. I meaning and my life was an accident because some bullying. What I did every day is I locked Monday through Friday was like a clock. I bumped some other music very loud because I didn't want accused God. I was vulnerable. I was telling, Why do I have to suffer with headaches? Why the mirror and I'm scared of what I see. I I'm fearfully and wonderfully. Yes, I am fearful. minutes that and then somehow you know like you very God I just accused of everything. It's like had the same thing in Psalms you know like starts you. It seems like God wasn't threatened by was broken. I was hurting. This happened day every single day. Then I would read this word it would happen in one day. I wish it was one happening about the process of 3 years, it's to change inside of me. You know why Adam felt naked though he had a perfect body because of what shame came and I feel like the Holy your problem with why you feel this about and what you've been eating is your own view to feed on My word, your diet changes and then first is this God supernaturally healed me of my what started to happen is this is I stopped caring school to get affirmation or approval. I friends. My eyes were still the same. Everything the very worship team that kicked me out, how they put me back there because my voice did went straight A's in school. At 16, I became the very thing I do most of the time and I'm those people who know me, I'm extremely shy. What else you know I'm very shy. As a person, I'm an That part still stayed there and the Lord uses and so but the fear of people is no longer most of you are not distracted with my eyes either. Today, I don't hate myself. I'm not like am married. God has given me purpose. What I'm something I've read in the book, it changed my know the truth, the truth will set you free. skeleton but something inside that changed is the most important thing and that is what's there. Positive thinking couldn't do it. counseling couldn't do it for me. What did it has its place but the place that I was in, when to coach me but what I love the Holy Spirit for you fall before Him and you lean on this word, are in. He's going to help you to get out of that that low self-esteem. He's going to help you to to get out of that hopelessness and it will seem you have no hope. You have no future but if you My will to give you hope and a future and if there soul and that hope is found in Jesus. That hope scriptures. You shall know the truth and the Number three, stronghold is the devil's work. in parenthesis. Be nice to yourself. Demons are are broken down over time. Think of a stronghold takes time. Now I want to share to you a verse for the devil has sinned from the beginning. that He might destroy, somebody say, 'destroy', is the word in Strong's G3089 and that's the I'm going to read you another verse where this answered I'm sorry but the One that's coming to loose. The word loose here is the same does loosing sandals have to do with destroying demonstrate. Strongholds are like shoelaces, takes time. Only then you can layer by layer, you have to... how do you one by one. That's how the devil puts a tight says I came to destroy, loosen straps and it's loosens... when God loosens those process. You don't get it done at the altar. You day. I wish there was a pill like that. There is no impartation for a practice of... it takes a process. think of strongholds. Some of you will never You're like I'm breaking down strongholds. first. It takes time, it's not immediate. I of loneliness, that curse, that generational curse Interesting that happened with my wife is when Africa and one pastor prayed for her and said, her and said, you are free and so we left home you things and I was like man, that's it. This will mention yesterday. To try to solve my wife's I tried to marry her sister with one of the guys was her best friend so her sister would visit somebody from our church thinking if I can get she moves, my wife's loneliness, not having she hated all the guys that I set her up with this is failing. This is not working. So we pray for her. She didn't manifest but she felt home and the nightmares and those attacks did go find just a deeper deliverance minister who I'm sorry babe but that's the best that I could continue to support you and my wife worked at post one of the things that she was allowed to do is was sorting mail and then delivering mail. What teachings on the Holy Spirit and for five to she would listen to that. What started to happen to happen after that is that her job, her of look for recognition in the church as a found the girls that nobody wanted to hang a small group with them. This small group groups. This is funny. Her sister married sister. I was like, that's a sign from God. So when she no longer needed those one of the things when you have a stronghold you go into and sometimes you think friend if every place you went to, you you. If it's five churches you went to and five one, I agree. Maybe it's them. Second one, perhaps one, I'm sorry. That's you because you're the people carry a strong stronghold in their life attracts the very thing they're filled with. The environment, totally different. Why? Because what you have more of until you have abundance. If it, you honestly attract. I don't believe in law something happens when you carry a stronghold. You thesis. It's almost feels like the just have cheese on your nose and it's called the stronghold and I saw my wife in I would say that it was a deliverance that broke. but developing your mind through the scripture curse. So that's why I don't want you to go in problem as a nail and also, I do not want you to change. Deliverance removes demons, that's all. your habits. It doesn't change your character. routine of reading the word. It doesn't change the that you have always been negative. It only gets they still need to be changed by breaking yourself and the truth you know begins to praise. Number four, your mind gets better. To break down the strongholds, you have to break this lie that if there is a mind. That's what I believed. If only my face altered. If only people accept me in this place involved and I belong and I have a self-esteem. If to your eye, that I will no longer feel like I I could eventually change as a result of them, everyone. That means you are responsible for my weather is responsible for how I feel, everyone A dangerous way to live. When you read Genesis the first thing that God creates on day one was Now, I'm a logical person and not super you don't get the light if you don't get the I don't understand how can you get get the light younger, I used to tell people on the first day, the light and then you read the Bible more actually make the sun on the first day. He then we have a problem because the world I live, sun. The world God lives you get the light so you father until you have a child and the world God a child. The world I live you're not righteous if you have to be righteous so you can do right right side up. God's world is right side Change my husband. Change my children. Change Change everybody and then I'm going to change my first bring the light and then I bring the sun. to come from your circumstances. I want My peace I want it to come from Me and because of that, you you get the stars. Some of you have been asking the sun. Change my health. Change my circumstance. I want to bring the light outside of the sun. The the moon. I want to be your light. I want to be then when you no longer need the sun, I'll bring stars on the day five. I'll bring you the blessing the day 10 and you will say I'm no longer needing you. Come on somebody. Right side up. Touch your six. Excuse me, number five. Stop Write this down. You have thoughts. You are doing the thinking, you. The biggest lie we believe is the mind like a child, it needs to be trained. It yelling child but it is your child and you Finally brethren, whatever things whatever things are just, whatever things whatever things of good report, if there's I want you to watch this, meditate. You choose about that. Proverbs 23:7 &quot;For as man thinks thought captive like a prisoner of war. Remember, every thought into captivity to the obedience of before you can make them captive. What do I mean you captivate them meaning, sometimes if you're thoughts, especially the automatic ones. When to beat and the thought begins to say, it's going I'm going to get fired. I'm going to get and so this coming out of my head? And then you take the lead the thought like a captive with the sword of Jesus. So you can't make them captive until you become aware. Sometimes when it's a negative I remember you know we grew up in a poor household the things that my dad always told me is in our good cars that could last but never nice cars pride of life or what it was. I wanted an Audi. young and etc. Anyway, just wanted an Audi and my dad fixed Audi's and so he says bad car, very so and I was like well, I still want it and so my that's kind of last you son and easy to change agree. I don't deserve it but I still want it. So the generational curse, just kidding unnecessary curse. I go buy this Audi, the only difference me meaning, he sold me a bad car but my dad never he would have spotted that but I didn't know how So I come back home and then, I come back home the car doesn't break, it accelerates on the they fix everything and go to the place, they I had another problem and my dad says, I told you. this is the way it's going to be for the rest it will break. Why? Because it's just not part of told my dad. I said, Dad, I know that's how we live and I'm not going to accept that as my future got another nice car that I gave away and but broke down, part of me. My dad's voice came out break. This is what happens when you don't stay see and sometimes you experience that resistance go back to how I used to be, like that girl with a Here I am. I thought I was going to be healed. other part is like no, I'm going to go into the some resistance, I'm going to stay with because and I'm not going to yield to the past and I'm the Bible says, If you're willing and obedient, God says. I know your dad might not have that Kenneth Hagin that says, he says, somebody's the land is Cadillac. Somebody's good of the land to judge somebody else's definition of the good how God begins to meet their needs and provide for Well, that's not your problem or their problem of the land as somebody else's. If for my dad, Japanese car that was nice. My definition and changed. All right, God bless you everybody, to your thoughts. Write this down, train your not to be trusted meaning, you don't lean on be deceiving. Now we know God uses our thoughts is the scripture teaches us, we need to train need to choose those thoughts. We impose thoughts thoughts be imposed on us. Number seven, don't his delight is in the law of the Lord and in His you fill your conscious mind with scripture, it you feed your mind with becomes your mindset. you can control what you feed your mind with already the set thoughts that are thinking kind of I'm going to change my mindset, not right don't change what your mind is filled with. spills into your mindset, into your subconscious. It's what responds automatically, you don't go what you fill your conscious mind with, regularly. memorizing the word, being in the Bible study, Because while your mindset is dictating one something else and you're filling your mind which mindset begins to change with time. Amen. Eastern fills your mind. Eastern meditation is about to God. Eastern meditation is passive. Christian demonic Christian meditation is Holy Spirit filled if you have an app on your phone, most likely it I was like what do you think I was doing for The meditation is a very famous topic today out of new age and the thought of meditation meditation is a Biblical concept. The big and meditation in Buddhism is this. Buddhism aggressive warfare. It's warfare. You're not doesn't say empty your mind. It says meditate You take your thoughts captive. It is aggressive. your mind with the truth of God and the Holy Ghost You're trying to attach yourself to the truth of yourself to the Holy Spirit. Come on somebody. word. Number eight, confess what you of this what I've dealt with right now is with God's word and everything. Once it goes break the stronghold? It's not only filling speak. This doesn't mean you have to quote King word that are in line with God's word. Joshua your mouth, but meditate in it day and night, that is written in it. And then you will make have to switch careers. You just have to switch becomes successful and then you will have good way meaning, whatever that you've been doing, in jail and God says, I'll bless that. You can be Why? Because as you meditate on My word and God God's word begins to spill out of your mouth. building. Instead of looking at every obstacle and the Lord is good. He's got us. Everything is well with my soul. You might not feel that but you my feelings but if I control my thoughts and To renew your mind, stop being addicted Do not conform to this world but change your mood. them at times. They're boisterous. They're like, understand, that's why a lot of you listen better. You have developed this thing inside of and it's all about feeling better instead of you feel better. There are drug addicts who feel not about how you feel, it's how you think. The it's changing my thoughts and changing my my feelings around and my thoughts is God's I want you to be careful what you speak. but my feelings. Put your feelings in the back sit down. David said to his soul. He soul. David says, why are you disquieted down at his soul and speaks to it. Most I don't know what's happening to me. Get out of your thoughts. You are a spirit and you can speak your thoughts with God's word and begin to speak the law not depart your mouth meaning, I got and some people think there was a real devil that I could be wrong, that it was like physical because it wouldn't be temptation. Come on, you won't be tempted. You'd be like... in the name he loses. If he would do that, it's when he like... and it sounds more like you. That's why we are. When I'm tempted, the devil doesn't That's what makes it confusing for me. That's because it sounds kind of like me. So it could thoughts. It could be... I'm not saying this is tempted and I'm tempted but what I love is the with thoughts. The biggest challenge that people thoughts. Never fight thoughts with thoughts. stop them. The moment you release something, the like... it's like you're playing a mental soccer match. Out. You don't win a battle like up and not out loud maybe, under your breath then your thoughts quickly just anybody? Number nine, expect God to show up, not is expectation. Expect miracles. Now, you know expect God to show up as it is to expect the expect God to show up meaning this, do not... worst case scenario. Now sometimes people are be prepared. Don't expect the devil to show up in God to show up in the future. Your expectation it's the reverse and drive. It takes the same directions are very different. It takes the same you're not sure as it takes for God to show up going to happen. It takes the exactly same of very different. So train your thoughts, your mind I don't know it looks like there could be a bad report. Well, Vlad, you're building our hopes up Zechariah that we are prisoners of hope, even you. One man married his wife and she had this the house. So first night she gets him. She says, so. She's like you need to go check the house the house everywhere. No thief. He comes back and thief. Thank you. The next night, the thief is in check. The thief is in our house. He says okay, 30 years. He already was like just blindfold he comes in and there's a barrel of a gun to his there now. So the thief took everything and the wife. She's been expecting you us. What do you expect? Expectation is the up. Expect oh but my child is getting worse. It have to be connected to the circumstances. God's goodness. God will show up. Faith in a I don't know what the future holds. I How? I don't know but I trust Him to show to show up. I don't want the devil to show I don't want to see the devil show up but expecting God to show up and lastly and this Why? Your mind thinks your brain is what you and the mind is like the relationship pianist. I'm the mind. This is your brain. you turn it on, maybe it will work. Your is what does the thinking which means if be altered. It will be affected. That's one of foods, whole grains, fish, healthy fats as olive work properly because some of us cannot make the keys are broken and we're like but I have they're breaking your keys. I don't know because you're feeding the instrument, you're that instrument, then all of your skills properly. Your food, what you eat and I'm I'm talking about that food that we will God is different. That deals with our mind, the the brain. You need to feed your brain. That means a lot of times, not only you're destroying God's happen and then you know and we charismatics, health. Yeah, we hate it. Why the kind of snacks that are in the lobby of every church. What shows up in our small groups? The it's quick and we're like God, heal me while break this piano. God, may the melody flow through really. I made you in My image and likeness. Where My image but it's in you. Why is it you have many of us die and we pay for our premature death we eat listen. So I really want to encourage each take care of your brain because your mind does thinks through. If that's not healthy and you can you can hurt it by the kind of food that you eat, There are things that happen in genes. There are is responsible for our bad eating habits but I a poor job of taking care of our temple and to fast and pray but to also to eat healthy and feet. Did you receive something today? Amen. I know some of you made a decision to go on January 3rd and come on somebody, the Lord is I want you to place your hand on your mind. We're of victory, truth, God's presence. The strongholds we hearing the truth. I want you you know every when it doesn't come out head first, we call it a broken here. There's a breach that took place and come out head first. He wants your mind to come Lord God, I choose your word to renew my mind. reject that right now. I renounce that right in the name of Jesus. I commit myself to studying I commit myself Lord God to applying myself to Jesus, I pull down every demonic stronghold right in the name of Jesus Jesus in the area of my area of my relationships Lord in Jesus mighty Lord God not to live a life of fear, not to pessimism, not to live a life expecting the devil expecting good report from God, expecting the just an optimist but because I'm a believer Lord. we just renounce every negative expectation. the pattern of speech that is not in line with Lord some of our mouth is just like a verbal pessimistic defeated words, we repent of that God. truth. Let them have God in them. Let them have Lord God. Let them have positive outlook Father your word to be my spiritual food. I choose the I want you to pray for your brain and I want you Don't make promises, you're not going to keep to exercise so that my brain is well taken care brain missing chemicals, I'm going to pray right of you who maybe have had a brain attacks like a... you were born with some kind of a disorder. right now. Nothing is impossible to God. Brain is Lord right now in the name of Jesus Christ, we against right now every swollenness in the brain. supposed to be there. We come against every brain disorder, PTSD, anxiety disorder or any kind of Lord God, we come against it right now, we speak we ask you that you are God of creation and God in Jesus mighty name, healing right now. Every you will bring healing right now, bipolar or OCD Father hasn't planted Lord God right now, we just word and your word says God, that you took our healed and so I speak healing right now, that fog there because of maybe brain problems, spiritual we speak life to it. We speak breakthrough to it brain that we will see the light of God. We will the Holy Spirit in Jesus mighty name, in Jesus Lord. We love you Jesus. You can put your hand room that maybe you came here today and you're for sickness yesterday. I'm just going... I have are here and you're saying, Hey I'm believing for raise your hand, just right there where you are. next to you, I want you to come up to them right to ask them their name. So come up, each person just all around the sanctuary. If you're a come up yet but if you're a believer, just come over there, one for each person. Ask their name. that they have or what is the sickness that they Thank you. Thank you. If somebody comes up to you, what is the pain or the sickness that they have, women and women, I want you to ask if you can do not put your hand under their different body and right now just for next 60 seconds, I want you to leave. Come on. Go. Just command that pain come up to them, just pray for them. Command that just command those joints to be healed right now in Jesus mighty name, by the fire of the Holy Son of David, have mercy on them right now. Let Jesus name. Be healed in Jesus name. Be restored you to be in right now in Jesus name, strength in whatever that is broken, be healed in Jesus mighty was a tension, be healed right now in Jesus name and so I want you to ask them. Ask them right now few days later but I want you to ask them. Say, it. Maybe they couldn't do something without that If you prayed and there was a relief or there to just... the whole group just wave your hands so