Asrock N100DC-ITX. You guys have been begging me to make a video and it took me months to finally deliver. Why? Well, because there isn't really much to It's a great board for a low power small It comes with a passively cooled 4 core CPU It can be powered from a single 19V power It draws less than 6 watts at idle, It has both an M.2 slot, and an open ended It features a powerful iGPU that supports And you can actually buy it locally, at least Which means that you won't have to import like some other low power motherboards. So, that's it, right? Video over? Well, not quite. Thing is, the Asrock N100DC-ITX has one big which makes it a no-go for a DIY NAS. It can only take 2 hard drives. That's right, not only does this board only it also doesn't offer any way to power your apart from this wimpy JST connector and a power cable made for, once again, two And it's so frustrating! Because there isn't really any other board has a PCIe x2 slot for a 10 gigabit networking and supports lower C-states! But fret not, because today, we're gonna be fixing that problem and turning the N100DC-ITX into the perfect I'm also gonna be putting together a little and the Jonsbo N2 case, as well as doing some benchmarks and measuring I'm very excited about this low power build, so let's put it together - right after Now Notion is the kind of app that doesn't In fact, everything you're hearing right I'm using Notion to manage pretty much every budgeting, project management, scripting and And recently, Notion's launched a new feature It's your personal AI-powered assistant which provides an intelligent search functionality Now I've benchmarked a few CPUs on this and every time I want to see how a certain I either have to go to my own YouTube channel or go to the video's script and look for With Notion Q&amp;A, I can simply ask "how do when it comes to Dune transcoding?" And as you can see, it's gonna look through results for all the CPUs. Including the N100. Oops, spoilers! But Notion Q&amp;A is actually only a small part which includes tons of helpful features that make writing and editing text in Notion a breeze Since I use a teleprompter in my videos, I try to write things in a more conversational using Notion AI, I can rewrite entire blocks like casual, professional or straightforward. I can also use Notion AI to check things like and simplify some more cumbersome sentences. Which, as someone who's not a native English As an added bonus, unlike generative AI tools like ChatGPT, Notion does not use your data to train You can get started with Notion for free, and unlock all the AI features for just $10 Notion Q&amp;A is still in beta at the time of making this video, and if you're intersted in trying it out, So thank you Notion for sponsoring today's video, and now, let's get back to the N100! So, what exactly do I mean when I say that Is it because it only has two SATA ports? No. That one is actually a pretty easy fix The N100DC-ITX features an M.2 slot, so you can simply buy this 6-port ASMedia plug it into the motherboard and this will give you 8 SATA ports in total. And unlike the JMB585 which is installed on the NAS centric the ASM1166 supports PCIe power management, Awesome! So what about the SATA power? Well... That part is a bit tricker Unlike it's bigger brother, the N100M the N100DC-ITX doesn't have a 24-pin ATX so you can't power it with a standard ATX Instead, you're supposed to use a 19V laptop And when it comes to powering your drives, the N100DC-ITX comes with a 4-pin JST power As well as this adapter cable for two SATA please ignore the fact that there's actually Now if you just want to use two hard drives or maybe don't want to use any spinning this is not that big of a deal. But what if you need more drives? Well, right now, you're probably thinking, why not just take the stock SATA adapter, and solder more SATA ports onto it? I mean, there are SATA splitters out there And even though that might work, I really The 4-pin power connector on the N100DC is And a typical 7200 RPM hard drive can pull when spinning up. Which means that if you have, say 4 hard drives, those will pull around 10 amps, all from a Now I don't know about you, but even though the simultaneous spinup thing I still wouldn't want to risk it in the Especially for a system that's supposed The only case in which I would recommend this is if you're building an SSD only NAS, since SSDs need way less power than hard drives. That being said, Let's talk about the solution that would let us That is, powering the board with a standard Now at first, I almost scrapped the idea. The Asrock's website says that you need And a standard computer power supply can only So there's no way we can power this board short of using a voltage converter. Or at least that's what I thought, until As it turns out, despite what Asrock says, This motherboard will happily take anything which makes our task way easier. Armed with that information, we can make a custom power supply cable, using a 4-pin CPU power extension cable and a DC jack to terminal block adapter. I'm gonna cut the male part of the 4-pin strip the wires, and feed them into the terminals on the 12V jack And there we go! Cable done. Finally, in order for our power supply to without a signal from the motherboard, we can use a thick piece of wire to jump the That way, the power supply is gonna turn on If you want to be fancy, or don't have a you can buy an ATX jumper, like this one. So here's a test set up that I built, with a Jonsbo N2, a SIlentStorm Sharkoon SFX An M.2 SATA controller a 2.5 inch boot drive. and 5 3.5 inch hard drives. As you can see, the system is unplugged from but once we plug it in, we should hear our And once we press the power button on the To avoid having to press the button every we can go into the BIOS and set the motherboard when plugged into the wall. Since we're using a DC jack with block terminals, we can also use these convenient WiFi antenna to pass the cables from the inside of the That's not my idea btw, I stole it from And, voila! An N100DC-ITX build with 5 hard drives! And enough room to add two SATA SSDs down So now that we've fixed the biggest issue let's talk about the build! This machine is actually gonna be running and serve as an offsite backup for my Youtube It's also going to run Syncthing and Photoprism, and basically pull all the new photos from I've already made a video about their current and some of you guys suggested that I use Honestly, I thought that the idea was genius, and kinda just decided to do it. I'm working on a separate video for this in which i'm going to go over the components, set up things like remote control, peer to docker, and so on. So make sure to subscribe, if you don't For now though, let's talk about the power Now in order to test this board's power I decided to swap from the SFX power supply Most of the measurements on this channel were so in order to be able to compare this board I'm gonna be plugging it into a PicoPSU. With a 16 gig stick of RAM, and a SATA SSD, this board draws 6.7W from the wall at idle, After some trial and error, I found that the So I forced the L1 ASPM for the NIC with this which brought the power consumption to 5.2W, and allowed the system to get to C8. I also saw no difference between plugging and powering it with our custom 12V to DC jack adapter the power consumption stayed the same. After plugging in the SATA controller, as well as our 5 hard drives and putting them the power consumption goes up to just 10.9 which is about what you should expect from if you're gonna be using it as a DIY NAS. That's pretty impressive! Now one of the reasons why I prefer the N100DC-ITX is the PCIe x4 slot which is actually only wired for x2. Still, this should be more than enough for Personally, I can recommend this Trendnet It's based on a new power efficient Aquantia and supports PCIe power management. There are other cards based on the AQC100 and some may be cheaper or easier to get where so do your research. After plugging in the networking card, and letting the drives sleep, we see a total power consumption from the That's with 16 gigs of RAM, 1 SATA SSD, and a 10 gigabit networking card. Not bad at all! And in case you're wondering, disabling no effect on the overall power consumption One weird thing I noticed with the 10 gig is that if I ran the iperf3 in a single-connection However, when running it with 5 connections I was able to get the full 10 gigabit speeds, even when testing in both directions. At first I thought that the card But looking at htop, the N100 processor only gets I also tried playing with jumbo frames and So, if there are any networking experts out please leave a comment below. One more thing I wanted to test on the board, In my last video, I used this board to run Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 10 and Windows 11 And while I was at it, I measured the power During the installation process, the entire card, was pulling around 18W of power That's with all versions of Windows being But once the installation was finished and the power consumption went down to around Remember, that's with 5 Windows VMs running So here are what the final power consumption 5.2W at C6 with nothing plugged in but a 12W at C2 with 5 Windows VMs running at 10.9W at C6 with an external SATA controller without the VMs and 12.4W at C6 with all of above except plus a 10 gigabit SFP+ networking card. Honestly, this might be my most power efficient and since the N100 CPU also has a TDP of 6 the average power draw, including both idle is probably gonna be pretty low as well. Now that we've talked about the power consumption, let's move on to hardware video transcoding. Now despite its modest CPU performance, the N100 comes with a pretty capable iGPU. It supports QuickSync, and you should have As an added bonus, it also supports AV1 decoding, which we're gonna take a look at later on in the video. But first, let's take a look at our usual In the 1080p H264 test, the N100 scores 125 In the 4K H264 test we see 35 fps In the 1080p HEVC test, the N100 scores 54 and finally, in the 4K 10-bit HEVC test, we And here's what it looks like compared to As you can see, it's pretty close to the except for the H265 1080p test, where the At the same time, let's not forget that unlike the Skylake and Kabylake chips which As for my traditional Dune test, the N100 manages to transcode the movie at And, once again, here's how that compares Now, since the N100 supports AV1 decoding, Here it is playing back a 4K HDR AV1 copy which is about the same as the HEVC. Keep in mind though, that unlike Intel Arc So if you're looking for a low power CPU maybe look elsewhere. Now, if you're buying a N100-based motherboard, you're probably not buying it for performance. That being said, it can definitely handle like running a couple of VMs, some docker and doing ZFS stuff every now and then. Sure, 5 Windows VM is probably pushing it, but even then, we're mostly limited by RAM, Performance-wise, the N100 should be similar to i3-6100. Which is a dual core Skylake chip with a 51W TDP Which doesn't seem all that impressive Until you realize that the N100 is a 6W chip Which makes it 8.5 times more efficient than the i3-6100 And compared to the previous generations like the N5105 and J4125, the N100 is definitely an improvement. I'm still working on a test suite for home so for now, we'll just have to trust Cinebench So there you have it guys! We fixed one of N100's biggest issues, And built a super compact and power efficient with 10 gigabit networking and hardware video transcoding I hope you guys enjoyed this video and as usual, I'd like to thank my Patrons