I asked 10,000 people to rank their favourite In this video we'll be taking a look at what Which out of the 19 main series Mario games Well, let's find out! But first, I've got an announcement. The brand new &quot;TGD 16-bit&quot; t-shirt is now You can get in in white or black, and every Okay, on with the video! So, the first step was to create a survey But before that - what even counts as a main What should I include in the survey? Games like Super Mario Bros, or Super Mario But what about games where it's not so easy Like the original Yoshi's Island, for instance. It was marketed as Super Mario World 2, but Then there's Super Mario Land 3, where you I didn't include either game in my list. Finally, there's Mario Run for mobile phones. Now, on Nintendo's website, they do class it is a platformer where you play as Mario. So fine, Mario Run makes it onto the list. And with my decisions made, I now had a final Now it was time to put together a survey for So, I opened up Google Forms and got to work! People could give each of the 19 games a rating I told people not to rate any games they haven't up. Plus, I asked people to write up to 3 words way, we can find out why certain games were And with that, the survey was done! All that was left was for me to post the link And with that out of way, I waited for the So, a couple of months have gone by since my survey. A huge thank you to every single one of those So, I've downloaded all of the data, and list of every single Mario game along with We're going to start at the bottom of the most popular Mario game of all time! Let's-a go! Number 19 Run, the first and only Super Mario game for With an average rating of 2.11, this is - according game of all time. And that's not a huge surprise, as Mario Mario game. Rather than you - the player - controlling the levels by himself. All you can do is tap on the screen to make And it turns out, quite a lot of people didn't "Fun but repetitive" said one person, And that's one thing that Mario games really Number 18 Levels, known in Japan as Super Mario Bros The game received a score of 2.36, with some and "terrible level design". Because Mario 2 focused more on challenging At every turn, the game attempts to trick killed. And it turns out, that's not very fun. My favourite response about the game is this Number 17 American version of the game. With a score of 2.96, the American Mario 2 least according to the people who filled out I think the reason this game ranked so low much like a Mario game at all. Even if players in the 1980s didn't know into Mario 2, they could almost certainly little bit off. That being said, Mario 2 is extremely creative it has impacted the Mario series more than it. But for some, the game remains nothing more Number 16 Game Boy, with an average rating of 2.97. And this little Game Boy game marks a major portable entry in the Super Mario series. It's also brimming with creativity - the are unlike any other Mario game. The only problem is Mario himself - he feels which is a bit of a problem. Oh and there's one more issue - the game Like, you sometimes have to squint to see playing on a dim, green Game Boy screen. One person described Super Mario Land as "Clunky on. Number 15 average score of 3.00. Now, this game is the 4th entry in the New the charm of these games had really started As the first Mario game I ever played, I do Bros 2, but I'm also not going to pretend New Super Mario Bros 2 is a perfectly fine Two people described it as "Getting very I think is a little harsh, but ultimately Number 14 Mario Bros game, with New Super Mario Bros said about the last game applies to this one These games even came out during the same Let's just move right on. Ok, number 13 is Super Mario Land 2. This is the sequel to Super Mario Land, the And with an average rating of 3.27, people With better looking graphics and a killer to retain the "weirdness" of the first it to create a game that holds up so much At the end of the day, Mario just feels great And who can forget that Super Mario Land 2 "Creative and underrated", wrote one person, GameBoy game". Wow! Number 12 Mario Bros. That's right, the original Super With a score of 3.43, Super Mario Bros is have expected. Back in 1985, this game totally changed the copycats, too! If it wasn't for Super Mario Bros, the rest But coming back to Super Mario Bros in 2022, rating. The Mario series has only become more creative, 35 years, and playing Super Mario Bros now has come. It seems that people were pretty divided in "Classic but outdated", "Still holds but fun". I think for me, "simple but fun" perfectly with Super Mario Bros. Number 11 tried to fuse 2D and 3D Mario games together. Surprisingly, this is the first 3D Mario game Now, 3D Land netted an average rating of 3.69, as hell", but also "kind of forgettable". I remember really enjoying 3D Land when I don't really have anything particular to So, perhaps that means that it really is a But ultimately, 3D Land is a really fun game exactly what you want from a Mario game. Number 10 And in the 10th spot is New Super Mario Bros Now, New Super Mario Bros Wii brought one is multiplayer gaming. For the first time, multiple people could one addition really brought the game alive. It's a hugely iconic part of the Wii era the game received - about half of them seem Number 9 an average rating of 3.76. As the follow up to the critically acclaimed up to. And I think quite a few people would argue Featuring some of the most frustrating moments received a lot of negativity over the years. But I think in recent times, people have come actually has a lot to love about it. For one, it is bursting with creativity, and "Fun but frustrating", says one response, And I think that says it all. If you're able to look past this game's you'll have a pretty fun time. Number 8 Mario Bros for the DS. With an average score of 3.78, this is the Bros sub-series. And that's no surprise, as New Super Mario after a 13 year absence. "Return to form" says one person, "Best You see, it's easy to think of the New Super for the retro Mario platformers of yesteryear. But that's not at all fair, especially when New Super Mario Bros is a joy to play, bursting that have since become Mario staples. Number 7 a rating of 4.05. And honestly, I thought Mario 3 would rank For a lot of people, Mario 3 is their favourite And it's easy to see why - compared to Mario From iconic new enemies like the Angry Sun 3 is one of the most influential games in And, I think, it's aged really well! Mario 1 and 2 feel like retro games if you a really great game. And considering it came out over 30 years "Best NES Mario", says one person, "Timeless And I'm inclined to agree with both of those My only critique? Mario is so slippery to control in this game, ice! Next up, number 6 is Super Mario 3D World, I feel like this game has been enjoying a When 3D World was first released on the Wii anything else. People wanted another Mario Galaxy game, or released this strange 3DS sequel. But Super Mario 3D World is a truly excellent I mean, you might not be friends anymore after is brilliantly designed to bring out your "Best WiiU game", one person wrote, "My But the response that sums up the game for Because I think for a lot of people, that's When it first came out, they weren't exactly But over the last few years, lots of people found a really great Mario game to play! Number 5 Mario 64, with a score of 4.22. Now, you could talk about Mario 64 for hours It was the game that brought Mario into 3D, it. It feels effortless. I never stop being amazed by the Mario series' While every other franchise was struggling worked, Nintendo casually pumped out one of "Revolutionary", "Still holds up", And while the game's camera system didn't so much fun! If you're stuck for what to play next, well for a guaranteed great time. Number 4 average rating of 4.31. Now, Super Mario World marked the Mario series' better music, better art, and more buttons This game is about as polished as the Mario just flawless, and every single detail is world map to the surprisingly deep mechanics So many iconic Mario levels can be found in a day. But of course, there's one show-stopping game: Yoshi! After keeping the idea of Yoshi in his head to bring Yoshi to the Mario series with this to play! "Best 2D Mario", "Best 2d Mario", People are absolutely in agreement that Super And considering that the game ranks as the I think we can truly say that, according to "best 2d Mario" game of all time! Number 3 on the list is Super Mario Galaxy The story goes that Nintendo had so many ideas Galaxy game, that they ended up creating this But don't get me wrong, Mario Galaxy 2 is offcuts - this game is bursting with unique And with Yoshi added into the mix, Galaxy Nintendo has ever put together! "Great sequel", says one response, while word "Yoshi". Yoshi really did steal the show here, but Mario Galaxy 2 is a brilliant game all round! Next is the runner up, number 2 on the list, of 4.49. Mario Galaxy is just amazing. Taking goofy old Mario and sticking him in on paper, and it yet led to one of the greatest according to this survey! With its stunning visuals and just really Nintendo pulled out all the stops for this Mario Galaxy is dramatic and almost cinematic And yet, it still feels like Mario. Every second, the game is throwing some new, you, but it never feels disconnected at all. It all comes together to form a practically "Breathtaking" wrote one person, "My and last but not least "Mario in space." Because who knew that Mario in space would And finally, the best Mario game of all time... With a rating of 4.64, it's well ahead of If I had to describe Mario Odyssey with only This game is the strangest Mario game Nintendo thing. Every time you turn a corner, you're face During the game's reveal, the first thing in a realistic city. And that really tells you everything you need You cannot predict what will come up next it the perfect Mario game. Because, that sense of surprise, of wonder, Even up until the game's final moments, breathtaking and hilarious twists that just I don't think I've experienced a game Odyssey. There have been Mario games that are more even! But I've never played a Mario game as delightful And looking through people's responses to 3D Mario" and another third say "best I know that as the most recent Mario game, memories than some of the older games, and here. But when they created Super Mario Odyssey, the player, and it's incredible. It's like eating this huge buffet of food Every bite tastes totally different, and yet the sum of its parts. This game is a triumph for Nintendo. So, you're free to have your own personal It's certainly not an easy question to answer, Every Mario game is good at worst and a masterpiece But if you HAD to pick, well, I think Super Hi, it's Thomas! I've literally just finished editing the video it! I just wanted to remind you that you can get at ThomasMerchDocs.com, I designed it myself, it, so I do hope you enjoy it! And a huge thank you to everyone who filled a while to get this video together, hopefully And I will see you next week, in my next video! Bye!