Since we came and sat here you are half-an-hour You must go and volunteer in a hospice or Last moment when it comes, when they die, they're Mohnish: My question is, suppose humanity makes what would we do if we reach an ideal society What would our endgame be? Sadhguru: Is it a deal between you and these See look at it this way because you can't Look at yourself, right now you're thinking Let's say, right now I make you an engineer, this moment. Then you're thinking I you need a promotion, I got you. Then you think you need wealth, I got you, right now. What do you want now? (Laugh), Mohnish: Let's say, I want a job. Sadhguru: Yes. Now, we are looking at the You've got everything you wanted right now, things that you cannot imagine right now, What do you want right now? Mohnish: I wouldn't know what to do. Sadhguru: Just look at it (Laugh). When you say this, all you want in your life, what you're To get a job it must take three years, then Look at all the people who have good jobs. are they going blissfully, dripping ecstasy? Hello? they're getting blood pressure going to work. They're So what do you want? Is there a girl here? Mohnish: Don't know anymore? (Laughter) Sadhguru: That's good. "I do not know", I like that Everybody keeps fooling themselves at every I want to become an engineer," it will keep you busy Then, "I want job, job" it keeps you busy Then I want this kind of job, that kind of I want that much money, that much wealth, I want this kind of girl, that kind of girl, Then children will come, I want my child to well, we are preparing for your funeral (Laughter You need to understand just this. Right now you may be but essentially what you call as my life right now is just As you sit here, time is rolling away for all of us. Can you roll it back? Yesterday was not fruitful, As we sit here what is ticking away here is Since we came and sat here you are half-an-hour It doesn't matter how young you are. So, it's a certain amount of time. And that time, it rolls at the same pace for everybody. You do you're awake, you're happy, you're unhappy. Do whatever mercilessly, isn't it? So there is energy that you call If you're like this, I'm talking about the classroom If you're like this, twenty-four hours feel But have you seen on a certain day you're very happy, Yes or no? So time is a very relative experience If you're joyful, if you live hundred years, Only miserable people will have a loooong Because if you're miserable, you'll always But if you are joyful the possibility that a human being For what possibility this carries. So what Because life is a certain amount of energy. If you function at one level of energy, what you do in ten the same thing you can do in one year's time. in terms of impact and profoundness of experience, another has lived for hundred miserable years. You may think right now engineer this one, that one. Fundamentally as a life, it's just time and energy, Do you want to make something out of it? There's no When I say making something out of it, it What should you become in the society, that's Fundamentally, why you have come here in terms Question is how profoundly. Right now, if people want to They will experiment, not this, this. Yeah, yeah. I know. Or they'll experiment this or they experiment how to down your faculties. You know, United States So, when I went to a few colleges or universities Someone like you must legalize marijuana for us". I said, meth legal. What's the problem? No problem." so that you can smoke up and come to the college right? the pilot comes smoked up. Because the guy is already flying without the airplane Okay, you're not getting the point (Laugh). You need a You want the surgery? "Oh, no." Then you clearly I want all of you to look at this. Do you believe you If you want to enhance this life, you must That's the only and only way you can enhance You cannot lower your faculties and think What kind of stupidity is that? Simply because it I can make you feel like this all the time. How is that? Look at my eyes I am stoned (Laughter &amp; Never touched a substance but fully stoned the greatest chemical factory on the planet is here. you can create any experience that you want If you are having an experience, even to experience Is this the greatest chemical factory on the Are there chemical engineers? So I am asking, how are We gave you such a sophisticated machine. Blindly do this and then you think pumping Believe me, the only and only way you can The way you see, the way you hear, the way If this is enhanced, is life enhanced in many But I'm saying from what you know, from your Suppose you could see twice better than somebody If you could taste better than other people, If you could feel better, is it life enhanced? On this level, you understand this, but there if you enhance this. if you sit here, you will be blissed You wouldn't want to touch any damn thing because just So about what is the end game? If you had everything, If you had everything that you can ever dream of, You must think, isn't it? I won't supply with an answer. that means you're super short-sighted. This happened to Gautama the Buddha. Because of some astrological prediction that a great Emperor or a great sage, and he wanted He protected this boy and put him in a separate everything that you can dream of, everything there. everything on. He should not see any suffering. He saw one old man and he asked, "Why is You know, his chauffer or his chariot driver said, He said, "What me? I am a young prince, He said, "Yeah, everybody will become like Then he saw a man who's suffering with some kind of He said, "It will happen to a lot of people. Who it will Most people think it happens to other people. And then he saw a funeral, a dead body. "What is that?" Do you also know, you will also die? No because No intellectually they know, but they think they are Mortal means you have a limited amount of If you're always conscious about this, how If you're conscious about it. If you think you're a other people will die, all the best. It will come. See, people may think this is extreme, but you must go where people die, and you must see, it's very important. Only then you become sensitive to life, life becomes it's a limited amount of time. If you watch this, over eighty percent of the people, last moment when it they're not in pain, they're not in something else, A look of bewilderment comes because all their life they never lived a life. This is important you must and there is an existential reality which is life. their psychological reality to be existential. has become more significant than the cosmos, What you think, what nonsense you think and feel, This means you are making your creation more This means you must suffer. If you don't suffer, Because if your ignorance doesn't make you Because it takes a lot to come out of that trap. to come out of the trap of ignorance? When people can What is the use of knowledge? What is the use What is the use of realization? If people can live what is the point? When you're ignorant, you must suffer. the greatest evil right now on the planet is not evil,