With an empty mind and open heart, let yourself Let your mind rest in this dark awareness It is not who you are or what you've been you want to be. Contemplative prayer, when done right, is It's the cloud of unknowing, the hidden It takes you into silence, far from thoughts It makes your prayer very short. In it, you learn how to reject and forget God cannot be known by reason, nor by thought, But God can be love and chosen by the true, Even the most ignorant person on earth can by practicing contemplation in the beauty Do this work until you feel the delight of Be very careful how you spend your time. There is nothing more precious. In the twinkling of an eye, heaven may be This work [of contemplation] is far from any for these are produced not by the stirring intellect. Such a proud, ingenious intellect must always to be truly undertaken in purity of spirit. The universes which are amenable to the intellect By love, God can be embraced and held, but No matter how sacred, no thought can ever prayer, because only love--not knowledge--can Sometimes God may send out a ray of divine you and the Divine and letting you see some You'll feel on fire with this love. I can't describe this experience. It's beyond words. My foolish, human tongue can't describe Even if I dared, I would refuse, and that's So Lift up your heart to God with a gentle The first time you practice contemplation, a cloud of unknowing. You won't know what this is. You'll only know that in your will you feel When I say 'darkness', I mean the absence Whatever you don't know and whatever you've don't see them with your spiritual eyes. For the same reason, by 'cloud' I don't between you and God." You must also know that this darkness and God, whatever you do. We cannot penetrate this cloud of unknowing but we can penetrate these clouds through We may "shoot humble impulses of love" with our thoughts but with our love. This is an echo of Gregory the Great's well-known So, be sure you make your home in this darkness Stay there as long as you can, crying out to God over and over It's the closest you can get to God here in this cloud. Work at this diligently and God's mercy "If you are to experience God or to see it must always be in this cloud." So, I encourage you--bow eagerly to love. Follow its humble stirrings in your heart. Let it guide you in this life and it will Love is the essence of all goodness. Without it, no kind work is ever begun or Simply put, love is good will in harmony with Simply sit relaxed and quiet. Center all your attention and desire on God, and heart. If you want to gather this focus into one little word of one syllable, not two. The shorter the word, the more it helps the God or love works well. Pick one of these or any other word you like, Fasten to your heart. Fix your mind on it permanently, so nothing Don't analyze words at length because studying contemplative prayer. Only grace gives this gift. Be as simple in your loving contemplation of your own self. Don't analyze God's being or yours. Let go of thinking, and worship the Divine it fully, for its own sake only, nothing more, of you is God. If you want to make this cloud an integral there, you must do one more thing: complete To the cloud of unknowing above you and between and God, add the cloud of forgetting beneath If the cloud of unknowing makes you feel alienated yet put a cloud of forgetting between you When I say 'everything in creation', I also everything they do and are, as well as There are no exceptions. You must forget everything. Hide all created things, material and spiritual, As long as you're thinking about anything, the more you have in your mind that is not So let go of every clever, persuasive thought. Put it down and cover it with a thick cloud The mind is always distorted in some way, can lead us to great error. When distracting thoughts press down on you demand your attention, pretend you don't Try looking over their shoulders, as if you're That something else is God, hidden in a cloud Doing this the work of contemplation will When tried and understood, this spiritual for God, the desire to feel and see the Divine This longing is true love and love always If you can sit and do nothing, then you can There's another trick you can try, if you When exhausted from fighting your thoughts, down before them and cower like a captive Give up. Accept that it's foolish for you to fight Do this and you'll find that in the hands Let yourself feel defeated. Accept your failure. And always keep this plan in mind because melt like water. During contemplative prayer steer clear of I also don't want you outside, above, behind 'Where then,' you ask, 'will I be? If I take your advice, I'll end up "nowhere"!' You're right. Well said. That's exactly where I want you because Make sure that your contemplative work is Obviously, during contemplative prayer, your will think that you are doing nothing because that stop you--keep on working at this 'nothing', Persevere in contemplation with a renewed that your intellect cannot possess him. For I would rather be nowhere physically, be a powerful, rich lord, able to go wherever with every 'something' that I own. So, abandon the world's 'everywhere' more valuable nowhere and nothing. Don't be bothered that your intellect is I love it even more for its inscrutability. Its infinite worth makes it incomprehensible. Also, remember that you can more easily feel It can be experienced but not grasped. That's why it seems completely hidden and at it for a very short time. Let me clarify 'dark' here. When a person experiences this nothing, the light and not by actual darkness or by an So, who labels this 'nothing'? That would be the outer self. Our inner self calls it 'all' because intuitive sense of all creation, both physical to any one thing. So, work diligently in this nothing, which Put aside your exterior ways of knowing, such because I'm telling you that this contemplative God has none of these dimensions. In fact, nothing spiritual has these characteristics. So, stop trying to work with your body's Abandon them entirely. Those people who start the inner work of contemplation hear, smell, see, taste or touch spiritual They work against nature, taking the wrong Although God has ordained that our body's and physical things, I mean that in no way help us understand spiritual things. Whenever we hear or read about something that to us in any way, we can be sure that this We have the same experience in contemplative struggle to know God. It doesn't matter how much profound wisdom our understanding cannot help us gain knowledge God alone. But the failure of understanding can help When we reach the end of what we know, that's That's why St. Dionysius said that the best, is known by not-knowing. When your soul is engaged in contemplation, It's totally at peace because it knows exactly Also, when practicing this prayer, your soul You become discerning. And you no longer want to wander from the Go forth and gently conquer, then. Be humble and passionate in this work. Persevere. Contemplation begins on earth but continues Love never ends.