Have you seen this man? Probably. This is one of the most famous And it's supposed to be the Unabomber, an American terrorist across the country for almost 20 years. Obviously, the sketch artist And the Unabomber left So how was he finally caught? Linguistics. I'm Erica Brozovsky, Ph.D., Otherwords. When the Unabomber sent a 35,000 word manifesto to the newspapers, James Fitzgerald and Roger Shuy They found some outdated terminologies that weren't likely to come from a woman like anemic and chimerical suggested and they knew that odd spellings, popular in the Chicago area In 1995, in the Washington Post She asked her husband David to take a look some of the phrases from letters At the time, But when they heard that David's middle aged man from the Chicago area, Fitzgerald and Shuy compared the letters David supplied them with the manifesto unless it was an elaborate hoax, Shortly thereafter, the FBI raided an isolated cabin wilderness where they found Ted Kaczynski, and an original copy of the manifesto. In a way, we are all forensic linguists. Have you ever reread a friend's text trying to deduce Have you ever pored over a warranty Or stared at graffiti on a bathroom wall Jesse could have done In all of these cases, you're choice, grammar and punctuation But the term forensic linguistics until the 1960s, when Swedish linguist reexamined a controversial murder case In 1949, a Welshman named Timothy Evans and baby daughter in a series of strangely Three years after his conviction downstairs neighbor, a man named John and the real murderer of Evans' Why would Evans confess to something Since he was functionally illiterate, all his statements had been dictated totaling almost 5000 words. Svartvik like the frequency of different types What he found was that whenever a different voice seemed to take over. Maybe Evans changed his speaking style Or maybe the dictating officer This kind of analysis, known as stylometry, assumes that each of us has our own idiolect, a unique way of speaking that can be used Your idiolect includes and pronunciation, Do you prefer active voice Do you tend to put adverbial clauses You may not notice these habits, One of the key methods of stylometry People who use more nouns, articles and analytic, while those who favor verbs, adverbs and pronouns You can also put words like family, religion, sensuality In 2015, social psychologist James W Pennebaker used this word to analyze Shakespeare's plays Much like an FBI agent to the text of a play with disputed and found that Shakespeare was the most with his frequent collaborator Stylometry has been used to identify It's how we know that the Zapatista is actually the respected writer It's how journalist Joe Klein was outed of the political novel Primary Colors was revealed to be a pseudonym But authorship attribution when you have a big body of text In criminal investigations, it's you a 35,000 word manifesto. Smooth move, Ted. Most of the time Take the 1996 murder of six year old Even before her body was discovered investigators already thought about the ransom note left behind. For one thing, it was about three times with phrases lifted "Do not attempt to grow a brain." The letter also contained "adversarial stylometry," when someone deliberately tries like misspelling simple words which is not an adjective that people Linguists are also called in to analyze serial killers like the Zodiac Killer In 2018, a forensic linguist used modern techniques police in 1888 Not only did he confirm that the first two letters were written a potential connection with a third letter written by someone from the Central News This might mean that all the letters never wrote to the police at all In such cases, the corpus is so small about the type of person who wrote them But that may be changing thanks to aach one of us has an extensive corpus tweets and comments that can be mined And artificial intelligence can analyze After all, that's exactly find patterns in language. But the complexity of AI can also limit The most powerful systems meaning their own programmers don't know They find patterns in language would have trouble understanding it, And that does not fly in a court of law. You can't have a computer on the witness Perhaps the day will come when A.I. evidence is as accepted But until then, juries can't convict Unless we outsource jury duty to A.I. as well, and I'm terrified to think For now, human and not just to introduce evidence. They help lawyers complicated statements with disputed monitor police interrogation tactics, speaking defendants are interpreted The fact that we all have our own unique It's at the core of personal expression and contributes But it also means that no form As the famous Miranda warning goes, anything you say can and will be Styl--stylometry Stylometry, yeah. Every time I say it it feels weird. Stylometry. Drama! Jan? John? Jan. Jan Svartvik. Did you hear me say often? Often with a T.