At any of East and West - Transmission rotary switch? - Cable. - How about slot PLCA - Zero-seven. Should our today's warriors can than anything our bloodstained After all, it takes to launch the missiles our civilization to - Bravo. - Charlie? The missiles we can all agree on that. So we'd better that might lead to nuclear war. - U-turn commit time. Three, two, one: mark. - The long range missiles of the opposing sides can to 10,000 different targets. Unless mutual terror or good they may rise out of holes and come bursting from the sea. And where would And where would Well...the obvious targets In cities. So the city dwellers of the threat and counter- And our nuclear nightmares begin with the destruction of like Paris, an emblem and heaven knows where A single nuclear from out of the huge could lay the whole of in an explosion much of Nagasaki or Hiroshima. The cosmic lunacy which is not, as you might of irredeemably wicked men. No, it's palliative, and considered In the meanwhile, military how big a bang they how much rubble for a ruble. Our dreams might be untroubled had really managed to but unfortunately the causes the armed to jostle and probe each other and to shadow box within sight of their potential adversaries. Although the crew acknowledges a point scored the sparring would if war had already begun. A British aircraft Today they shoot While the western play catch as catch can, it's follow the leader. A helicopter from teases the American admiral at unusually close quarters. Only the law of the high seas restrains this unfriendly game, and also, I trust, a healthy if encounters should Will the Americans refrain Ah no, you see; they stage And it's in the that a United States helicopter patrols the border the frontline ally The white posts mark the and the army pilot has to fly within a It doesn't look like the most but all the outlandish firepower that's concentrated here - could touch off a nuclear The East German fences, from the border, delineate the geopolitical rift that If I negligently drop I couldn't just run because they will have fallen into the other side of the I might as well throw And this is how close to this demarcation line at this observation In front of here and behind for the war that The new European war get out of hand thousands of tanks and planes, but eventually thousands And this sinister to the perpetuation across which young watch each other so warily. - What's that you've Our mission here is the East German border. It is to observe, record, whether it's an East or walking right or whether it's a work My personal feelings If there's any place in it's right here on the border. Europe has for turning its pleasant If that ever happens again, these troops will It's been all quiet for most of the past 30 years. But all along the the British, and other troops of the North Atlantic face powerful opponents and Eastern Europe. In this sector where juts nearest to the who stand at what soldiers as the West's most forward - It's...kinda strange and have them wonderin' what they're thinking what they're They've got a job - I don't know, to talk to them, but we can't... I don't know... They just sit around and They go hide from us and stuff. - I have talked to a few Most of 'em are just - You got that right? The Americans are into their battle tanks of the fateful frontier. - We're always ready I have a unit that's always It's always manned; it less than 15 minutes. And all they have to and the rest of us will I've got 250 different They consist of tanks and my tank company. Scout vehicles mounted with Ammunition trucks, jeeps, We pack one heck of a big punch, much larger punch in the United States Army. - So, these are 155 They're capable of indirect We have different types of We have the rounds that and drop bomblets and They have a nuclear capability. I think that the nuclear in the political scene today. I think that you can and in the news how much in everything that is I think that us knowing and them knowing is a deterrent that that will keep us Apart from the guns bombs of much greater power can Supersonic strike aircraft, for instance, are fully The crew can take to destinations on the battlefield The leaders of increasingly outnumbered They doubt their ability to win a war in Europe So, as their current statement if NATO's conventional forces selective and limited could not be deferred. But to postpone for any need to &quot;go NATO looks to its conventional The snag is, of course, have nuclear weapons, too. So aircraft specially might seem a more prudent The fighting men who are liable to perish by it, too. Even non-nuclear weapons that any war in Europe would swift and terrible Who would want to meet Who would want to meet a helicopter leaping up before him? It's chockfull of gadgets The predictable drives the generals and their The command bunkers are dotted all around Europe For instance, at an just west of the Rhine. Beneath the terraces, secure themselves and nuclear fallout. So it would, as between one team of They're sending to help the ground troops. Thank goodness it's - In the event there is the primary mission will be to task and air support, for the U.S. within the central region. - Four oscar nine zero - Roger that, sir. Juliet - One fox six zero two romeo. He was successful on target - Five two three will If the and if the political the commanders can replace with nuclear bombs... a contingency that is - A nuclear war could from a Soviet attack And indeed...NATO defenses have this nuclear risk built It is made clear that we cannot defend without initiating the Initially, hopefully on but with every possibility to ultimately a major in which the territory of should be at risk. Well, this is quite deliberate. It is part of the - If NATO fires any nuclear then the Russians will with nuclear weapons because their nuclear weapons by and and therefore have to in a nuclear or even And therefore, the risk I would say inevitable, would be very rapid. And this would certainly lead to the total destruction - The buildup in the is a serious one...both in and in the nuclear field. Perhaps one of the most is that it doesn't of the fact that you've a very tangible improvement The Soviet military effort - On the surface it does appear that there's an of Soviet forces in Europe... of course, advanced are too large for That of course is a statement and it doesn't really Soviet prescriptions. The Soviet argument a large and legitimate to carry out in They have the defense of and of course their Europe is very large, And they must also face From the Soviet point of view, they have not to deal but there's always been the something with which we So therefore, from they would argue that their to discharge its defensive task. But it's the powerful missiles and of armies much stronger than the generals of NATO. They picture the Russian tanks and charging through unstoppable by It's not at all obvious could be in the Soviet interest, yet among the Western allies The NATO general on happens, himself, And in this nightmare, he turned into a in the desperate bid to before they reached the Rhine. Just let the unwholesome work on your imagination and the first of our To me, one possible sequence They had to try and stop you understand that I hope. This is the last of Who would've thought would keep us down Now...there's something Nobody actually intended your or your school friends The German general in Put yourself in his shoes He was always opposed to In fact he said, &quot;Do like a war criminal like But, on the first had advanced 40 miles On the second day, 80 miles. And it was then that the told the German general, this war with nuclear weapons. Your chancellor and are in full &quot;So it's come to this,&quot; &quot;Well, at least, thank God, &quot;Oh, but it will my friend. We want you to &quot;There must be some other way... If I could swing the onto the flank...&quot; were getting impatient, although the British &quot;There's quite a lot Although we've managed into a nuclear fire put in a good word for us. There's a good chap.&quot; A nuclear fire zone farms, people, civilians. The American &quot;We are going to accomplish on armored spearheads and we are going to send in Czechoslovakia You see, the that they could smash at the same time saving not Cologne and You remember the of Cologne cathedral. A A German corps commander, added his voice to the rest. &quot;Why am I being abandoned like Where are the nuclear weapons?&quot; So, at length, the &quot;Very well, although may my &quot;Oh, you know. You know the And so...the Germans and the and on the morning the first bombs lit up the Although as the German why on Earth would when they're winning? And of course, when the there was no logical for the nuclear Would there be any European Well some nations believed of a nuclear force of and that the hostage cities The French, for instance, of such a nuclear makes it immune from But have things changed so much since the Elysee Palace by Louis XV's mistress, whose contemporary, about the heroic Well, I wonder what of the president of who now lives in the Elysee, enough nuclear power thousands of miles away. In the most elegant he has enough power to make the war of the seem like an outing, And because an enemy France puts her command You don't have to be a but you'd be the computerized as France has done, and A nuclear weapon, and, so the French and, so the French hope, a to potential enemies. It's hard to grasp that has so much death in it to be by heat, blast, fire, But we'd deceive that the French are of the standing attached to After all, who isn't? Their supersonic bombers of the methods that for fighting or threatening They have ballistic missiles, here going by road to a base in the The missiles a la of hurling H-bombs as far or over any lesser distance. The key that could do it - Bonjour. - The weapons are meant to deter any nuclear attack that the French won't be They could also help to so the French spare their missiles up to scratch. But they don't want all joining the nuclear club. Their tour de force The submarines that each carrying 16 missiles. They could easily of any enemy. But if the French think they Why not Brazilian or Korean nuclear bombers? The United States first made Then Russia fearing Next came the British, and bombers now loyally Then France, firmly The Chinese, who followed, is bound to come. Inevitably perhaps, it By all accounts, Israel and perhaps South Africa, too, while Pakistan is So the bomb is proliferating of the world, despite of the diplomats to prevent it. Will the seven or eight soon be 18 and then 80? There's a new form of that nuclear weapons but only for rich, After all, it's rather You can continue to while preaching If you are a smaller nuclear weapons, then I'm nuclear weapons, then I'm afraid if not criminal. Well, whether there is in this hypocrisy, to point a second way this time through the less And the greatest in the narrow streets where modern technology The global bazaar for is not easy to equip himself for making bombs. - We and the Soviets... have set a very bad example essentially demonstrating are the main instrument And essentially are of our status as a superpower. That being the case, to convince anybody - All these countries in the acquisition have generally hostile neighbors and you have what you call and country B, and you For example, in South and are both interested It's quite clear that to acquire nuclear weapons, country B will And so very dangerous would be triggered. - I was astounded that the has declassified so it's available at places here that a single competent design fission bombs through to construction. There's no doubt in my of motivated organized not very highly such as terrorists, could a nuclear weapons - Any country to date that has decided a crude, maybe has been successful So looking in the future, I don't expect to see their first weapon. I think that they will they are in a position Clearly the collected is that Israelis, but they've never tested it. And I think that's what you're Spies and nuclear it's at Dimona that Even though the signs The plant itself has been kept But won't Israel's simply spur her enemies The holy city of Christians, the order is strictly It has been the focal for thousands of years. Jerusalem is at this but you can look north with its Muslim minorities east towards a patchwork patient yet unforgiving, south towards Mecca, the and west towards America, It is hard to see how an can be avoided in this area. Already in very few could have bombs of their own, to say nothing of Even with a bomb smaller maddened men could for hundreds and a tragedy which would be or here, to the wrath of God. I don't suppose we'll who blew up Jerusalem. Nowadays it seems as long ago as the fall of At the time it the Israeli prime minister as it did everyone else. Oh I wish people wouldn't You know they're relics even for amateurs like to...imagine how this war began. Oh talking about amateurs, was very active at the first got hold of the bomb. Just after those first bungled explosions at the Israelis...where is it? Oh yes...an Israeli &quot;We warned the British that nuclear weapons among unofficial groups.&quot; Well, Israel's own problems on that Sunday, or... No, it must've been the Monday when two El Al airliners and Ben Gurion Airport The secretary of &quot;The Soviets are supplying with surface to air missiles of unnecessary sophistication.&quot; And the Israelis into the Lebanon for But now, to report to their prime minister had lost control of the air. &quot;There will be a time said the Israeli prime He didn't know Or on the Wednesday, blew up the ancient with its predominantly and all its holy places. While the news of was still reverberating it could be supposed that was saying, &quot;How Who do I hit?&quot; But, his advisors were The next day on television in tears, said &quot;Why should The place that and suffered for so long. We are not mad!&quot; But of course there claim responsibility ...various groups. The Lisbon Red others too numerous and The American and the on the coast while their attempting to, as they said, The Israeli prime &quot;The superpowers even our tragedies ...and what's this you tell me on Amman Airfield? I want an Entebbe-like raid! I want you to seize all the But...the commanders were The prime minister &quot;What? The Libyans have agreed to the Lebanese? The Pakistanis have already Trembling for his cities, authorized nuclear strikes &quot;Yes, and Beirut!&quot; he cried. And so...on the eve of of prophets, cataclysms the Book of Revelations. And since the to disentangle eventually engulfed us all. The Americans and the to avoid war by they employ military high speed communication, of what they call Any loss of control entail a third route These controls are, of course, But what is fairly obvious is would come under in the event of hostilities. And here, Fylingdales Moor would probably be hit in Why? Because it has become of the American high command, endlessly sniffing the And inside those round which warn of the approach Meanwhile, high above the looking out for the first And it's in the frozen early warning outposts stand. That's because the between the superpowers The giant radars never rest in The military planners believe, that a missile upon the United In that event, they'd have before the nuclear warheads So the news from the big radars goes straight to Colorado of a continent who at Cheyenne Mountain the North American usually known as NORAD. Because they're so vital the NORAD staff put 1400 feet and the fragile world outside. And NORAD's computers any massive attack, and what's more to the can be expected to fall. - The detection would The reliability is very high. The warning time, of on where the missile since it's a matter of And the same way The warning time on where the submarine Attacks upon the sensors but we have overlapping and to knock them all out and to do so would be Even in peacetime have plenty to do, on all the satellites Most of them have and some could make mischief. The watchers see the more and more for military They rely on them for for their world-wide They are tempting And from time to anti-satellite 10382, the kernel set is 485. - Every medium that he has found ultimately some Now, whether or not in space I think is more a For those on this planet, the to its bitter end with On the windy plains they never know that won't come today to fire But how can anyone make certain that they'll never and yet never fail to shoot When the crews the brother officers are - You ready to brief our status? - Okay. LCB status is normal. - Very good. Communications status? - The radios are - Okay. Launch switches? Check the launch - Launch switch... The new of the missiles until he's given the control capsule a There must be no funny with our world at stake. It's good. - Okay. Did you check the keys already? - Yeah. - Okay, you want check our locks Well, there's your lock. - You guys have a good one. - Safe trip back. - Take care. - Well, let's go on On these young men for 30 H-bombs, the warheads of intercontinental range. Once the missiles have gone, - This is the missile Step one, launch Even here, presumably the keys that can unlock are not left lying around. And to launch the missiles, - Inserted commander. - The four key system to ensure the correct of the Minuteman missile force. Four keys is the to launch any Minuteman missile. Two keys are in each and one for myself, When we turn our keys together, we constitute one launch vote. Our one launch vote combined of another launch control center to which we are allows the four key and constitutes an In the event an unauthorized we have what we call an which is used to cancel - Enable. - Depress illuminated. Charlie, - Launcher, this is a key turn in five seconds. Bravo. Charlie, Delta, Echo. - Okay launch - Hands on. - Three, two, one, mark. - Key turn. I have one gone, Four is gone. - In order to you have to be very Any person who exhibits such as a heavy drinking problem or develops a serious or something more personal, Only the most mentally are permitted to pull and SAC bomber duty. The missiles Strategic Air Command, from an underground command Launching the missiles relayed from the but the SAC command deep enough to Indeed, attacks on might leave the superpower unable to strike back. An unusual aircraft tries Anticipating the the generals of SAC take turns of command in the comparative It has a codename, - This airborne command or an airplane similar to offers our commander in command authorities a method or communications with that we are responsible for within the Strategic We will never be We'll always be able to between the national and the Strategic Aboard several of our airplanes, including this we have the ability to if in fact circumstances would prevent them under execution orders from the national - The reasoning is In this Looking Glass, we see a disturbing sight; on ruination, on military targets crushed. An airborne general from the senior surviving Orders to wreak similar It is very images of that the superpowers seek but the very fact of the in the sky like these of other elements in And the frailest of all these Looking Glass if no word came so he too has an a jumbo jet with the It can whisk the president out of harm's way IF they make - The command system, because it depends upon and a very few people, itself to attack. So, a first strike gives the probability the military capability of Modern command systems Given all this, in in which military commanders can no longer be avoided have gone too far, there to go the full if not the first attack, certainly to establish and bring their forces right The same knotty beset the Soviet Union's Anyone who might find of a Russian missile their precautions against are at least as strict But Soviet missile officers, like their American know that in a nuclear of command and control of the highest priority. They're quite aware that headquarters can be and generals can perish. Soviet anxieties mirror The need to avoid in a surprise attack, the big missiles away before But how do they on the other side of - I don't know if there is a between the United States but there certainly in their style of operation with respect to The difference has to of these two societies. The United States is a and so are its military forces. A great deal of dependence of low level commanders of military forces. Soviet Union is a highly and so are its military forces. They have gone to as far as we can tell to even to the point of trading of their actual force elements. The to control are the are the superpower's But in time of war, will the The American sailors casting off from Holy Loch in daylight again for two months. And communicating with is difficult enough I really do not know the United States missile However, we can realize of their communication a great deal of in the submarine and men serving underneath him. In circumstances in that the United States had and their communication and could not be reestablished, would have to decide whether for which he had been prepared despite the lack of or whether he and possibly degrade the of the United States. I don't think it's how a submarine commander but everybody recognizes in which he would and some of them I think the same logic does but I personally believe under quite the that is characteristic of Indeed I believe observable operational At any given time they have and they do not from the Soviet Union as do from the United States. I simply believe they've solved the problem in a different way. They are willing to accept of their submarines tighter operational control. - I know very little but I imagine that their crews are as cramped and as isolated I'm thinking in of a Soviet submarine selected in the Pacific because to the party, and also because Now, he had lost touch His second in command told him nothing from the nothing from the The captain addressed the crew: &quot;Comrades...perhaps has been burnt to and we're the only But my orders are specific. I must have proof that before I take any initiative. We should surface, listen for news broadcasts.&quot; But... there were three bearing down on him already. &quot;Three destroyers, and a possible submarine.&quot; &quot;If they sink us we shall grunted the captain. &quot;And if I launch my &quot;they'll sink us anyway.&quot; &quot;But why should they if they have not attacked &quot;Oh...we provoke each in this war of nerves; &quot;But Comrade Captain,? The emergency aircraft?&quot; The captain took his decision. &quot;I will launch two missiles. In this way if it's the party chairman to the American president: we've punished him. We apologize about &quot;If it isn't a mistake we in part at least.&quot; &quot;But... we would never cried the second in command. &quot;Remember what The crew cheered quietly. &quot;There are certain circles to destroy us. Are two missiles sufficient?&quot; &quot;Two missiles...&quot; &quot;Proceed.&quot; And so he remained poised not knowing whether he or merely stoked fires When bomber crews scramble the end of the world. Memories of the Japanese nearly 40 years ago still so they always keep a laden with nuclear weapons. Otherwise a sudden might annihilate the entire So, if the warning comes, the An attack of that sort for a nuclear war to start. One superpower or the it can or must strike first, the aim being to cripple embodied in bombers, Any of them sooner or later could well be Even if the somewhat elderly won't they just be shot down before they reach their targets? - Not all manned bombers They have become as time goes on the Soviet Union has developed that essentially layers and addresses each layer Therefore, they sort of have in which a bomber could fly and that seems to be On the other hand, a the radars, for example, and thereby be able to and threat than one The best way, of course, the defenses and that's where The cruise missile can be and travel very near the ground where it would probably in the noise that the Therefore, be able to than a large bomber like a B-52. Then the bomber does the dangerous areas and therefore its The equation of survivability goes back and forth. You devise a new you have the ability to The other fellow who is eventually defines a Then of course you come a new weapon that takes And it's this that you are really encountering in bombing or in So, it is perhaps the bomber is and will be eliminated The superpowers to just one method of That's why scattered the intercontinental in their buried launchers. The Americans have a thousand. But would they survive Would the airborne commander have anything left to launch? Once through the the garden of intercontinental And if the order should come or from the Looking then the massive lid would be thrown aside would come roaring out. This is a silo in the military rather than in the and there are over in the farmland in this But each Minuteman nuclear warheads each aimed at a And now that the big have several re-entry swarms of powerful might in theory rain and destroy most of If the duel of missile becomes plausible, the might gravely weaken the other, unless of course the his own missiles Missiles are being into the Pacific Ocean and the same thing is the Neither country, I believe, from operational silos over the trajectory they're Therefore we don't really if you try to launch a thousand missiles and send them all cross-targeted against a thousand silos. This kind of extremely that obviously and technological processes has never been tested, has Therefore, it seems to me to say with any degree of the missile is going to is simply not true. - I certainly believe the of Minuteman through the development of their large, I certainly think they of it in the future. of it in the future. As a matter of As a matter of fact, I think to be able to launch wiping out 90% of our I don't think they'll or cause any great but over a period of time they will take advantage of our - The Soviet Union may have enough accurate technically to destroy 90% That doesn't mean that they They could launched before It doesn't mean that would do what they are They would use more missiles, than they would destroy. They would still have to ballistic missiles and the It makes no sense for the only a small component of - One of the first has to decide when he's elected and takes that oath of office, what will he do if he is no lack of confirmation a 500,000 missile attack He shouldn't have to say, Let's form a committee.&quot; he'd better make up his If he's done that, or he's not going to launch. If he's not going to the missiles are at risk. If he decides that before the adversaries' then they're no longer at risk and I would think that if and it's understood, of the overall deterrence. - If the worst what would actually happen? Well, this question exercises and well-informed computers and elsewhere, and they and try to assess how many and what damage would And these activities Any number can play. The outcome is always disastrous with tens or hundreds Yet nowadays the war often commence with one at the other's nuclear forces. The simple idea of by deterrence is being on fighting and winning quickly without suffering a question of a judicial - If our enemy is and its leaders, murdering... murdering Soviet to my mind, where our Also, I think it's militarily but it's not the kind that the Soviets should The kind of damage they is loss of their military power, loss of their ability to control But we can not even about what kind of target unless we at the that we have to be able they can do to us, because a set of targeting for our forces, if a hundred or 120 million of the beginning any reasonable American drugged, or just insane, offensive strategic options because of what we would be self-deterred. We have to have a we are not self-deterred. - The Soviet argument very simply, that then you go over to upon your own country. And indeed in military you take all measures even if it should at a potential enemy. But are Russia's own The missile submarines and land based missiles of the superpower's They're intended for the final revenge, leaving its base at from the submarine If it's bound for the Atlantic, it passes under the eyes of And they're just the first these watchful men of Norway. In keeping track of the allies in NATO and resources they can command. Could their superior technology put the missile submarine The submarine is not well When the Norwegians alert a Nimrod aircraft will In the Bible, Nimrod It's mainly concerned that of ordinary submarines through the shipping which prompts this diligence. The submarine can't avoid If they're searching for it it'll give away its sow their sound As the readings come in by So the Russian in a chase that's - Buoys are in the water then and submarines are of the line of buoys. And we're expecting them to do-- The submarine will but a string of secret and lies in ambush across its path, all the way from This pursuit of the United States Navy, with their clever They track it relentlessly. This is what passes - Sir, here's the tape The three o'clock... - All right. And when to their carrier, a computer - Okay, Lieutenant Sandberg. The machine of the submarines at sea. It can always recall so the Russian safely out of sight At the start of a war many and they might include some which form an essential part of the Soviet nuclear deterrent. The executioner could an attack submarine The American Navy has and they can hound their For the coup de grace with anti-submarine missiles American arms control that these thorough of anti-submarine the Russians' confidence of their deterrent. So, just as the West and accuracy of Soviet Soviet leaders may be alarmed by increasing Western ingenuity. An ominous interplay than any hope of victory, that might impel that - I've no doubt at all that the political administration and the political administration have, in academic terms, no wish at all to have I'm convinced of that. But the technology will that the politicians in order to stop the other side, which they trust very And it's this reason for world security. - Anybody who can count that that building over Well, tabloid newspapers on fallow days than of cats and dogs playing innocently together. It seems to prove that can be countered with Superpowers also have by virtue of their size, and they adopt before any calmer Well, how can harmony be First of all, it's to understand each You are seeing the world there from the point of I over here from my from the point of view and I seem to sense from I seem to sense your agressions. I seem to sense your Why? Because of your troops and Throughout the Arctic cross Turkey, Iran, into the hedge with characteristic where the hole was punctured China with its offer to compensate for the lost and back to Alaska again. And there is nothing in history After all, they that in 1917 feeble from the United States, landed in order to attempt to They did nothing but give the Red Army and its first experience You may remember how exercised when there were Soviet Well, what would be the and of the entire if there were Soviet troops all along the Canadian border, and throughout the Caribbean? We must remember and that a cornered animal are the least open to appeal. There comes a moment when of desperation takes over and Of course the historians, there are left, extremely difficult to on the pecan pie or that the American president when he first got the news And what is perhaps to attribute is the blame as we knew it. As the president himself said &quot;Maybe we shouldn't Well, on day one to stop fighting the Chinese to stop fighting the Russians. But on day two, the that the Americans &quot;The path to peace lies of nuclear confrontation,&quot; The Americans denied this. The American president said, both sides are Communists.&quot; On day three the a huge civil defense exercise. &quot;That is scary...&quot; said the on generated alert. &quot;The Americans are war and sent their In an effort to bring the American president and ostentatiously of civilian duties with a civilian supper &quot;I want an immediate said the secretary of defense. &quot;To execute?&quot; &quot;He has to shoot, to off the ground where &quot;Those aren't cans of caviar NORAD predicts 2,000 at our nuclear bases, and our bomber bases. The general stakes &quot;Well I...it wasn't I was thinking said the president, &quot;Although &quot;Can we just hit &quot;You'd just be wasting &quot;That's what we can do The secretary of state spoke up. &quot;If you should choose &quot;you'd certainly I realize that millions but if we retaliate, why, &quot;No!&quot; said the &quot;He's gambling on Well, if the president was he showed no sign of it. &quot;We hit their silos ah, no, they hit our and they hit our cities... I guess the bullet's &quot;Now, all you have to said the defense secretary. &quot;Yeah... Tripoli.&quot; &quot;Execute, you have the word &quot;Do the people know said the president as he &quot;Oh yes, sir, they're getting One, go to Know where the nearest one is to your office, your home, If you decided to know how to improvise and - Everybody wants to of course they do, but how? For as long as Switzerland here has been for peace and disarmament. And here in Geneva at the the negotiators now talk and napalm where of battleships and bayonets. And in their embassies, in their hotels, the glaciers of talk and with exemplary patience. What drives them on? It is the hope there may be the magic which will save I wish I could report have the greatest confidence but they are by nature and they have hedged their Like the Chinese who with a rabbit warren the Swiss are resolved any nuclear holocaust which Switzerland, owing to is hardly likely to be the from any quarter, but neutrality, fallout Every man not is forced to serve in and the men in the very well they could be or clerks practicing here in By law every new house has to have, purpose built a shelter as a protection but...be warned. This nation of fine makes no special provision nor indeed for the foreign should their missions fail. The local government has a from which it would continue in the event of... from France, Germany, or Italy, or a few misguided missiles Oh yes, I always suspected would be a bureaucrat. But actually, the and more determined than any of the in the nuclear confrontation are asked to trust of their governments, in the principle of deterrence. - Deterrence has worked that no aggressor starting a nuclear war Any aggressor would that for him to start would mean national suicide. It's also worked because that they have the that provide that they don't have to start out of fear that their Now as long as those deterrence will and that, of course, of arms control, to of strategic stability. - We have, most of of World War II, have so the Soviet Union I think today we have rough equivalence or parity. The Soviet Union but if we allow them or through our own our forces unilaterally, to then deterrence will break down and there is the by the Soviet Union. - In the next five years I think it's possible to that a risk of nuclear precisely because of and the different If we can get then I think the - I believe that the incentive for all nuclear weapon states, in particular...the to find a way of regulating in the nuclear remains very powerful. in the messy world with possibly other nuclear that incentive will And so, the two major for the maintenance of find it almost inevitable they should try in to regulate this relationship. - Perhaps every 5 or 10 that all world leaders in the atmosphere. I think if they strip down to their at a distance of they would appreciate the enormity of the at their disposal they realize this and the way I think our then I think we can for a very long time. - People talk about disarming, I think that is not I think there will that the other guy will hide some missiles, hide some supremacy of some So my belief is let's stop Let's not make any new weapons. Let's leave what we have alone and gradually even so those missiles or whatever will you and the submarines will to dive under the sea. And that kind of a will make it less to use or even to these arsenals in time May the missiles from decrepit silos to decent exposure And here in future times pause to wonder at when great nations spoke only in the language of But it's for the sake that I trust we'll ever to surpass our and think no effort of mind or too risky if that our nuclear