This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Watch thousands of high-quality documentaries the description. In 1952, the first jet airliner began carrying But it was also the same year this took to An enormous flying boat. Both of these planes were trying to predict And one company was convinced that its flying Because it would be a more comfortable way lounge, dine in a restaurant, even sleep in Flying boats were already the giants of the And there seemed to be no limit to how big The world just needed to be convinced that By the 1930s, two distinct kinds of airplanes The obvious difference was one landed on water, But in the 1930s, that was an important distinction. Because many cities didn't even have airports. And runways were often little more than dirt On the other hand, the world is covered in So flying boats could land just about anywhere. Onto the Hudson River at New York came a mighty crossing. Another milestone in the rapid advance of While the development of land planes was constrained could grow larger, heavier, and more capable. And because they could reach parts of the boats opened up air travel to far flung exotic For the lucky few who could afford it, flying a reputation for comfort. And even safety. Because over the middle of the ocean, the was a reason why many thought flying boats And it helped calm the nerves of uneasy passengers. The rapid development of flying boats lled of long-range air travel. And in 1943, one iconic British Aircraft builder flying boats. An enormous plane that would redefine air But the plan would have to wait. 1943 was the middle of the Second World War. New airliners weren't a priority. But after the War, air travel would certainly And Saunders-Roe was going to be ready with at the forefront. And this is what they came up with. The largest, most advanced flying boat airliner They called it the the Princess, a fitting cabin featuring lounges, an actual restaurant, lucky passengers. The Princess was an odd looking bird, but Also aiding with efficiency was a new innovation. Turboprop engines. Some of the first ever on an airliner. And this plane was packed with them, eight through a gearbox and another two powering It was a complex design. But it meant the princess could reach speeds 39,000 feet, and travel over 9,000 kilometres. Practically doubling the performance of earlier With the Princess, Saunders-Roe brought flying Just in time for the 1950s boom in air And the company was already designing the A sleek flying boat with swept wings and turbojets. And for Saunders-Roe, it was flying boats They were even developing the world's first But while the company seemed confident in world wasn't. In 1952, the Princess took its maiden flight. And the enormous plane was a main attraction But airlines weren't interested. Because a lot had changed during the Second For starters, the War hadn't been fought bombers. Proving the long-range capabilities of land And over the course of the War, thousands world with long concrete runways. After the War, many of these new airports to civilian use. By 1950, all of the world's major airlines to land-based airliners. It was simply a matter of economics. To land on water, flying boats need stronger, heavier, less aerodynamic, and difficult to And flying boats were more challenging to And the plane's exposure to corrosive salt All factors which made flying boats, less Still, Saunders-Roe remained committed to Convinced that their advantage in size, safety, of water without much infrastructure, would to do was convince everyone else. So the company went on an all-out marketing still match the performance of land planes. And boasting that the Princess would mark air travel. But desperation also seemed to be creeping switch to land-based aircraft had been driven even plain prejudice against flying boats. But the marketing seemed to fall on deaf ears. even BOAC, Britain's leading airline had no Instead they made a bet on the world's first Ordering a fleet of de Havilland Comets. And by 1954, it was clear that all the marketing the era of flying boats. Because Sounders-Roe hadn't sold a single After two years without a buyer, the company airframes into long term storage. The age of the flying boat was over. But not before Saunder-Roe engineers got the Flying boats couldn't compete with modern Because in 1956, Saunder-Roe engineers came A design for a truly colossal one thousand liners, which in the 1950s were still carrying Over a dozen were in service between Britain And one shipping company was looking for a It was an idea every bit as crazy as it sounds. A flying ocean liner the length of a football Just to get this million and a half pound twenty-four jet engines integrated into the And this plane would've been so big, there engineers to walk around. Even service all those jets in mid-flight. Of course, this enormous flying boat never Even more outrageous than its design, would've And it would be the last flying boat for Saunders-Roe. By the 1960's they shifted to other emerging And soon Saunders-Roe disappeared altogether, Meanwhile, the Princess Flying Boats sat in Proposals to convert them into cargo planes, aircraft never panned out. And by 1967, all three airframes had corroded. And the enormous planes were broken up and It was the largest and most advanced flying Strangely futuristic but also archaic at the A plane designed for a future that never existed. Choosing my next topic isn't as easy as I have to consider whether it'll do well that decides which videos to promote to viewers. I also have to worry about whether my videos military topics are just too risky. YouTube decides which videos you watch and It's time to do something about it. By now you've heard that $2.99 a month gets on CuriosityStream. And to Nebula, where independent channels we want to create. In a few weeks, I'll be releasing my first A video about a secret japanese World War of the War. Nebula is home to a growing number of originals, content from your favorite educational creators. Free from ads or sponsor messages. If you're looking for a deeper dive into you'll find thousands of high quality documentaries. From history and nature to engineering and Get a free month of both CuriosityStream and and use the promo code 'mustard' when