Meet John Doe. He's in his early workforce. He sees a job listing brushes up his resume. He writes applies, and then waits and he actually sees the same job him super frustrated. John isn't alone. Many people these kinds of jobs that seem to anyone. If you are in the position of course, you don't want to waste ghost jobs. But it turns out, all those open might not even be real. Ghost jobs are phenomenon that but they've come to light much they've become much more of a market. Four in 10 companies posted fake in 10 are currently advertising according to a May survey from The rise of ghost job posting in the economy. We are seeing to make that higher, and it just for telling is slowing down. Here's why ghost jobs are on the Ghost jobs are actually not companies, but they are openings company is not actually hiring time. They might be interested future, or maybe they were cuts, those roles were closed or A ghost job is essentially a job never gets filled. The increased quite dramatically seeing a decline in the rate of rate has basically halved over in 2019 we saw eight hires per seeing four hires per 10 job quite a dramatic drop. This is a pretty worrying softens the signal of what a job there is truly a hiring employer point of view. I think we're seeing a lot of reason that I think a lot of profiles up, even if they're not relationship. It's because we for you know whether it's a good different. Companies know that when they are ready to hire, so applications from potentially they're not right now able to Because of market visibility. if job openings, that will enhance showing them as a growing and that's a signal to investors or their company is expanding the Market research. Some companies, salary, what are the skill sets are posting to get that data. salary if you want to be in that why they're collecting those total compensation package and indicator and net promoter really don't know how the for market insights to go into benefit to job seekers at all. branding. The US job market significantly you look at the overall labor It's no question. This report but over the past three months, certainly a good enough clip to Accordingto June's job openings commonly known as JOLTS, the job opening stands at point market. Job openings in labor turnover near expectations, 8,184,000 expectations. Despite a tight labor market, on struggling to find jobs, the data and the real life The rise of ghost jobs is making it harder for the Fed to what the labor market looks tell you that it's very tough this notion of unhireables. laid off and just can't find a interview. There are people they're finding that they are applications, and they can't get And yet, when you look at the it would seem like we're in an and those ghost jobs are no one knows how fake that economists are trying to isn't, and they haven't yet understand. Overthe past decade, JOLTS shows openings for any given level of people think, Oh, well, maybe openings. I would push back because JOLTS specifically asks that they could fill within the that is, jobs that employers or ever, either intentionally or shouldn't appear in jolts at TheBureau of Labor Statistics doesn't use job listings for familiar with the term ghost does not have any data related It's really hard as a job seeker some signs. If you look at a job for over a month. Sometimes it many months. Some of the job of how many people have applied that a job has been open for 90 applied, putting your a number, it's probably a ghost So my firm uncovered that on LinkedIn in 2023 as of the older than a month, and these ghost jobs. They're not is the difficulty with ghost fully prove. So there are ghost rising and they're a problem, completely pin them down, and that they're posting ghost jobs It's anti employee, it's anti company. So they want to be not going to openly admit that Another red flag for a job ghost job is when it's a vague they say we're looking for a looking for a Project Manager of identification that doesn't indication that they are just so they can attract talent and potential talent that they can need to hire. Job boards are the most popular opportunities. Indeed, among the most popular job there's growing concern that doing enough to address the Job posting platforms can line of addressing them is them, even if they're not the understandable, but it's still and I believe they should take be verifying, you know, they post verification method. So out to multiple people in the hiring manager, or verifying I would love to see these job ZipRecruiter, and Indeed, hold accountable for being listings have been up and how for. If they're going to they should have options hired this position. You can can make it clear that, hey, if fit, go ahead and drop your doesn't work out, we'll reach CNBC reached out to a few major comment. LinkedIn stated that requires posts to be genuine and after six months. Indeed, noted during ongoing searches or ZipRecruiter stated that ghost policies. At the end of the day, when it companies got to do what they willing to take that they can attract the best talent the end of the day. What ghost jobs speak about the currently friendly to job taking advantage of the labor opening that's this legal gray advantage of it, and they don't because they think that they owe that they'll be able to push the with this, because there's a lot being impossible to find a job leave my job and try to find this might lead to, though, is to companies like keeping the looking for jobs the entire time recruitment contacts, because They're always looking for the about themselves. Then that's sentiment with employees. Right now, even JOLTS is giving discussion about ghost jobs is financial community is trying to Unfortunately, we probably won't permanent or temporary changes until after this cycle is over, sit there and really parse the have is a lot of hypotheses watching the data very closely. potential explanation for some that we're seeing in the labor market.