Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and I am here today at Morphy's with the classic Soviet Cold War sniper rifle, this is the SVD Dragunov. And it's an original military Dragunov And I think there's some that may not be all that So I do by the way, have a previous between this pattern of rifle, the Tiger which is the more modern and the NDM-86 which is the So if you're interested in the nuances check that video out, I will link But the original actual Dragunov of course ... well we're going to take where the Soviets wanted a and they gave it a good try Which was ... introduced as the only to discover it had some It ... wasn't acceptable as a sniper rifle, and the Soviets would end up stopping and they went back to making And they would continue to use the or designated marksman's rifle, It wasn't until 1957 that the design were actually submitted to industry And what spurred this was actually So it's important to note here, the Soviet Union makes a pretty And it adopts in the late 1940s chambering an intermediate They have the AK which is a the new infantry rifle is the SKS, and the And the PK machine gun, which we Warsaw Pact or Eastern small unit light machine During the 1950s, the closest well, to a squad automatic weapon Which is the Degtyarev machine gun Now this intermediate cartridge, ... we It maximises the firepower it allows controllable full-auto from And we like it, and ... today looking back we look at the ... 7.62 NATO Like the US dominated and squashed like the really good which was going to be a sort of intermediate Well, what's interesting is the Soviets saw that Because now, as they see it, in open field The ... NATO units can reach out mostly here we are talking Like, that FN MAG can reach out further than the And ... for logistical reasons, they they wanted to keep the squad machine and they like the rifles being They weren't going to redesign the But they needed some way to give that and engage something like a NATO at a range beyond what, say, the And so that is the justification for a And before we tear this apart in this really isn't intended There is a distinction to be made, even between a sniper's rifle and The sniper we think of today as the dude to make the perfect one single That's not ... not at all what This was designed to be an that was able to provide accurate fire It was a designated marksman, so when you If you had a larger target that task is going to go Each weapon in the squad It's worth pointing out the SVD has a bayonet lug and intended to be a cohesive part of any say bayonet So in 1957 the design requirements And there would be three designers that would One of course is Evgeniy Dragunov one is Konstatinov, and the other is Simonov. Now this is Sergei Simonov of the SKS, and he And it's not very accurate, and it's and he's eliminated pretty Konstatinov has a rifle that's actually In fact Konstatinov and Dragunov develop over the course of this competition, Konstatinov helps design the Dragunov helps make more precise They are both short-stroke gas piston, But ultimately when it comes down to Dragunov's rifle is the more accurate of the two. but Dragunov's is more accurate And Dragunov is an interesting He was born in 1920. So when this is going on He does have experience, he was And then perhaps most importantly, and he was a very accomplished And I think that's the most important what was necessary And that set him up perfectly So, let's pull this apart and let me The Dragunov is particularly relevant because it is the first purpose-built Up until this point, the marksman accurised hand-picked examples of standard And it was here for the actually developed a rifle that was not just a variation on their infantry So this is a fairly long gun, But it is not as heavy as it looks, it comes in at It is fed using 10 round detachable box magazines, We have a rail on the side of the Unlike the AK, this does use a milled receiver to And this was developed alongside It is 4x power, it's got a nice reticle to it. And I don't have a Here at Morphy's, this particular rifle (which I believe came by way of but it came in with this Also a very cool scope but this was developed It will fit on this rail, I have left it off because it's not the appropriate We'll talk about the PSO-1 in a separate video. As a rifle to be used it does have backup iron sights There's the front sight, it is windage We have a flash hider out here I should mention there wasn't actually from the early trials versions There were a couple of changes. They added a (Dragunov, again, was a very he designed the rifle with a knowing that that would be the more effective, But in order to fit the military model they changed that before it was adopted Alright, this looks like But it does have the same style of safety lever. In order to disassemble it, we and flip it around to the back The recoil spring is housed I can then take the bolt [carrier], The bolt (and this the bolt is relatively AK like. But you'll notice there's no gas piston attached It is hammer fired and it has It's not like a super-duper but for a military pattern rifle There's the hammer in the fired position. To access the gas system Unlock that, rotate it forward, and then There we go, we pull that forward and then I can pop off both There is no heat shield in there, rapidly or high volume enough to Here you can see we have a fairly thin barrel ... We'll touch on the accuracy in a minute, but while this is good one of the ... essential is that you don't have to shoot And once it gets hot The only way to prevent that which they didn't want to do out of the desire Alright, we have our gas piston out here, when you and this is going to Comes back to here, And the end of this gas piston punches Where it is going to push on the top of the Alright, ... if I pull back I can pull out the gas piston Just like the Tokarev, this is a three And then this actually has multiple So you can see the &quot;1&quot; marking I can actually rotate this over to position &quot;2&quot;. And that gives me more gas And of course lest we forget, they're on the bottom of the receiver We have an Izhevsk Arsenal mark, So this ... particular one will have And then there's our serial number: H-183. Alright, I can't quite fit this all the way out but there you have an Ultimately the SVD is adopted as a new weapon It was manufactured at And I don't have any total production numbers typically with four figure thousands I have a previous video where I talked to and he mentioned looking into like through the 1970s they were making At the same time by the way, they were making But this was a weapon one to every single squad So it really was a mass-issue but it was ... expected to And so they made ... hundreds in total, although I don't have Now a couple of questions This was initially developed with a rifling pitch rate And that was developed around a When the rifle was designed, being made in 7.62x54 by the Red Army. They were just going to use the standard Well, Dragunov was a very he's not going to use the crappy he's going to go find the best ammo the brand name was Extra, that was being And it's a 200 grain bullet instead of 148, Now in military service ... they had to develop a new But before that they wanted to Again, like having a bayonet lug, the he's not separate, he's not special from the squad, and he's expected to use the same So that could be ball, it could also be And Dragunov's design isn't all in part because of the twist rate Now in 1974 the Red Army would the rifling to the standard 7.62x54 rifling twist And that was ideal for the It was less accurate with the precision ammo, and it was more accurate with that the ... designated marksman So they deliberately made that choice. Now, ... there are a lot of people who because these are extremely and then people get their ego invested in The actual acceptance requirements were based on three 10 shot groups. So these are substantial, we're not talking three 5 shot In order to be accepted, it had to shoot no [more] You ... had to get all the rounds within a Which is worse than ... an But again, that is with ... the generic ball ammo. With the 7N1, which is the it was a little bit of longer bullet, Designed to ... work better with and also made to a With that you had to get those three 10 shot groups So the accuracy standard on this is Now it's perfectly acceptable for the And it's a nice lightweight rifle, of what you can achieve And if you want a super-accurate rifle more stuff has to go into it, you can't have a Anyway the Soviets deliberately erred on the and were willing to have an accuracy standard that It didn't prevent it from being a very successful rifle, The rifle is still around, there were a number of They went to polymer furniture, there were and ... fully automatic and all that is beyond because we just want to And I didn't even get into the I'll do that in a separate video so that we can talk about Anyway, hopefully you guys enjoyed this video. Finding on the US market original Soviet military SVDs is really quite rare. So I'd like to give a big thanks to this one to film Hopefully you enjoyed it,