(reels clicking) (gentle upbeat music) (gentle music) - Aiden Tucker. Yes, sir. I just left. Nope, haven't even made Just pulled in the parking lot. Wait, what? You're telling me they just now when I just left the meeting? Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. Hey, you know what? My flight doesn't leave I think I'm gonna go back As a matter of fact, I'm gonna get 'em to bump up that order. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know. Don't worry. It'll be fine. All right, I'll see you tomorrow. Bye. (pensive music) - Hey, daddy, you want a date? - No, thanks. - Old (bleep) probably Probably a (bleep). - Howdy Doody looking (bleep) ain't got no money anyway. - Look at them Walmart clothes. - Are you looking for something? - What you got? - What kind of shit you looking for, man? - You got X? - Come on. What the hell you looking at? - Your foot. - Something wrong with my foot, (bleep)? - Yeah. It's gotta hole in it. (gun fires) - What the (bleep)? (Aiden hushes) Chill. Don't cry. You're not crying. - (bleep) that shit. I'm out. - Listen to me. By the way I see it, you got two choices. You get that looked at within But if you decide to come after me, you won't make it two Nod if you understand me. Everything's gonna be all right, bro. All right? That's it. (drug dealer groans) - Hi, baby. - Hey. What's good? - You tired? - Hmm, not really. I'm all right. - [Kesha] Good. You sure? - Yeah. What's this? - They raised the rent again. - How much? - 80 bucks a month. - Okay then. - Okay? This is not okay. I'm so sick of this - Oh god. - They're trying to push us out. You get that, right? - Kesha, haven't you seen that they're making Don't you want a nicer, You can walk to class without - Not if that means that Not if it means that they get to push out the black and brown people so some crusty old white - Rich and white men don't buy Cadillacs, they buy Mercedes S-Class. - (bleep) you. You know what I mean. - Babe, what do you - Buy me a house. - And then how would you - With the car you'll buy me? Duh. - Oh, so I'm buying a Is there anything else on that list? Because, hey, the other hundred dollar bills you should have seen it. - Baby, you don't tell me so what do I know? Except that it's time for me - Lord. Please, I've done what you asked. Take me now. Please. How about you get the ice I'll massage your shoulders. - Hmm, I like that. But if you're gonna be rubbing - Okay. (gentle lively music) (gun fires) (robber groans) - Hey, babe. Why you sitting in the dark? - I'm serious, Aiden. I want to move. - Something happened? - A man was killed in front of me today. - How? When did this happen? - I don't know. About an hour ago? I was walking home from class and it just happened right - So how did it happen? - I don't know. He just ran out of the liquor store and I think he was trying to rob the place and he dropped a gun and he dropped money and this white guy came out. I think he was the store owner. And just blew him away - I'm sorry you had to see that. - That's it? Did I mention that he was black? - And what does that - What the (bleep), Aiden? - I tell you a black man and that's all you have to say? - Well, it doesn't from what you're telling me. Sounds like there was a business owner who was getting robbed. A guy comes in with a gun take his money. Sounds like he was defending maybe even his family. - What the (bleep), Aiden? You know, you're a real piece of work. The military must have you serving all those years. - Well, that's true, but what does that have to do with this? - Look, I'm sorry you Why don't we stay in tonight and I'll order a pizza I'm really sorry. Hey, I'm serious. I'm sorry. (plane zooming) (gentle music) (gentle music continues) (Kesha gags) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) (upbeat music) (upbeat music continues) (spirited music) (spirited music continues) - 4,300. Not bad. (spirited music) - Oh good, you're here. Don't take off your jacket. - Why, what's up? What's going on? with the real estate agent. - You set up a meeting with a realtor without talking to me first? - Yeah. - So what were you gonna do if I didn't make it here in time? - Forge your signature - Well, what the (bleep), babe? What makes you think I have enough money for a down payment on a house? - God, Aiden, do you have enough money for a down payment on the house? - Well, yeah, I do. - Okay, well then shut Let's go. - Okay, fine, but you owe me big time. - Okay. - What you doing? - Down payment on the down payment. - I thought you said we were in a hurry. I ain't no minute man. You know that. - It's your loss. Don't forget to buckle your pants. - I'm getting that later. (gentle lively music) (gentle lively music continues) (suspenseful music) - Hey. - Hey. - Mr. Weaver, hire y'all? - Sorry, what? - Did old male Weaver, hire y'all to clean up this house? - I don't know who that is, but no. - Well, what are y'all doing? - Moving in. - Moving in? Both of y'all? - Yeah. - What happened to old man Weaver? - Look, I don't know any Weaver, but we bought this place Nice young lady named Bailey. - Bought it? - Yeah. - God (bleep). - Is there's something I can... - What the (bleep) was that? - I don't really know. - Man, I may have to get me some of that. - What the hell are you talking about? You know, I'm not so sure there's gonna be anything - (bleep), man. Did you seen the titties on that (bleep)? Me likey. - You mean to tell me you'd (bleep)? God (bleep), son. - Hell, yeah, man. (Bleep), might be the It's all pink on the inside. - Well, so is the palm Damn, Chuck. You know, they shit sure was carrying a lot of packages in back there. - Uh-huh. No, no, that's fine. Just, let's get this wrapped up by the end of the week, yeah? And... Well, gimme a call when it's done. I wanna have a confirmation Thanks, Phil. Bye. What's up, Jake? - I'm not exactly sure. Honestly, Marcus, I was hesitant to even bring this to you. I mean, it could be a coincidence. Maybe my imagination. - I don't believe in coincidence, so details matter either way. Spill it. - Well, it seems like we're having a higher than usual amount of losses in the south central areas. - Losses? Such as increase in expenses or a drop in sales or what exactly? - No, sir. And that's the thing. Dealer robberies. - Dealer robberies. Who'd be stupid enough to target us? - I don't think they are. There's rumblings that other organizations are dealing with it too. - How much? - It's not necessarily the amount. I mean, that's really nothing. It's like 80 grand in the - So what then? - Just that it keeps happening in the same few cities Dallas, Fort Smith, Kansas City. - All right. I'll put five grand on Let's see if this thing is a thing. - All right, I'm on it, boss. You need another drink? - I'm good. (gentle music) - Oh! - I'm sorry. - It's okay. - It looks like you've - Yeah. - I'm Al. - Al? - Kesha. - Hey, I don't suppose you - No, I quit a while back. - Yeah, I'm trying but I wind up bumming smokes all day anyway. Well, I'll let you get to class. - Okay. Maybe I'll see you around. - [Al] I hope so, you know. (gentle poignant music) (gentle poignant music continues) - I am home. Kesha? - Found your big boy toys. - Not all of them. - Aiden. - Come on, babe. - There's nearly a hundred and you've been drag assin' about buying me used car for class. And what the (bleep) You know I hate (bleep) guns in my house. - I can't buy a car right now. - A hundred (bleep) grand, Aiden. You better explain this shit. - I will if you'll let me. - All right, go on. - I cannot buy a house and especially paying cash. It draws too much attention. That's why I took out as getting this house. - Are you a drug dealer? Did you buy my house with drug money? - Now that's two different questions. - Boy, I ain't playing with you. - No, I'm not a drug dealer. In fact, I would say - Man, I don't even know what that means. Okay, but if you are not a drug dealer, why are there guns in my house? - All right, look, I'm - There's the first sign - Look, babe. Sales job, there's a lot of pressure. I got a big territory, Why do you think they keep sending me out on the road all the time? When I first started it was getting real tight. Money, we didn't have any. So, I'm in Galveston on walked to the store, see this drug dealer - Well, I know where this is going. - Listen, this dude had no perimeter security. He had his gun flipped the had his hands in his pockets, So you know what, I was like, &quot;If this (bleep) gets So, that's exactly what I did. I walked up to him, knocked took his money, took his guns, then I went to McDonald's, didn't think twice about it. - So what happened to the dope? - I don't touch the dope. I don't wanna drive I'm not gonna try and get 'cause of the dogs. So, I take the money, stash the guns in some cheap storage Or sometimes I just dump 'em in a sewer. - Except the ones that in a cardboard box somewhere. Bet you probably got some MAGA Look, you can't just go because you don't like what they do. - Babe, I haven't killed anybody. And all I'm doing is that's not theirs to begin with. And you know what? I didn't see you complaining I would never be able to pay for your hair and your nails every week or your tuition if I didn't have this on the side. - I'm not your sugar baby anymore. I am your wife, and that matters. What am I supposed to do if and you didn't see them coming? What are we gonna... How are we gonna get by if you're gone? - That's not gonna... We? - Yes, Aiden. You said we. Whoa. We? - Idiot. - Are you sure? What, that's not a legit question? - Yes, I'm sure. - Well, this is (bleep) exciting. What? Why are you not excited? This is great. - It would be great if my husband doesn't - Well, is it a boy or girl? - How would I know. I've only been in the baby - Okay, we gotta start setting money back. We gotta pay for school, karate lessons, piano lessons. We gotta make sure we got So that we can pay what That's... - How about let her find her And do you find another way to 'Cause you're not bringing with my baby around. - Oh, it's your house now? - Yes, it will be if I find any more guns You better ask Judge Judy. - Now, why you gotta be like that? - I'm just trying to look out Now are you in or are you out? - In, of course. Man, motherhood made you mean already. - And I will knock you the (bleep) out. - Okay, I will have all of by the time he's born. I promise. - And why do you keep saying he? You don't know (bleep). - You know, I got a feeling. God knows that I cannot handle more than one of you in this house, so he wouldn't do me like that. - God is a woman with a that will straighten your ass out. - Okay, sweetheart, whatever you say. You the momma. - Now you're getting it. - We having a boy. (gentle morose music) - Hey, Kesha, what you doing? - Hey, Al, I'm just You know, I had a few minutes before class and I just thought I'd do that and chill for a bit. - Oh yeah? - Yeah, we just bought a new house and it's been crazy moving. - When you say we, who's we? - Me and my husband. - Oh. I was thinking maybe we could get a quick coffee at - I have class in like nine minutes, but, you know, it gets and I don't have to - Nice. I'll go home and change We can walk over there. - Yeah, yeah. Sounds good. - Yeah, see you soon. - Okay, see you then. What'd you get? - White Canadian. - Ugh, that sounds so good. - Why don't you try it? - Oh my god, that's amazing. - What did you get? - It's black coffee. I'm trying to cut back on my sweets. - You know, not everything Sometimes a little diversion - I'm trying to stick to my diet. - Hmm, don't you love free will though? Making your own choices That's what makes life - Yeah. I've always done what I've wanted, but I'm trying to prepare and that includes making choices for that. - I understand. You could stay on a steady diet and occasionally try something new. Maybe something you've never tried before. - I don't know if I'm ready for that, Al. - Kesha, I'm not talking - I'm aware. Don't you think I'm aware? - How would I know what you're thinking? How would I? We don't really know each other. And that's what this is about, isn't it? At least a little. - You know what I think? - Hmm? - I think I better go and I still have to call my Uber. - I'll give you a ride. - I don't think that's such a good idea. - I'll behave if you will. - Okay, but hands on the wheel. (upbeat music) Do you... Do you wanna come inside? - No, I don't think so. - Why not? I mean, Aiden's in there and - Why? - I just, I thought maybe the two - Yeah, I... I think I have enough friends. - I'll see you in a couple of days. - Yeah. (upbeat music continues) - What can I get for you? - Hi. Can I get a coffee? Black, please? - Back in a sec. There you go. One coffee, black. Can't get you anything else? - No. Well, actually, is there any way that I could possibly - No, sorry. - You sure? - Pretty sure, I'm the owner. - Okay, it just... It took a while for you to come out and I just thought maybe while you deal with whatever - Hun, I'm well aware that I've got plenty of than running the register Okay? There's no money to hire anybody. Yeah, I'm busy but I'm busy that have nearly doubled And if that's not bad enough, all my truck drivers And the bean growers, raising their fees. I'm at the point now I'd be than trying to work 70 So when I say there's no point it's 'cause there's no point - Okay. - Look, I unloaded. I shouldn't have said all that, okay? I just... Enjoy your coffee. Let me know if you need anything else. (upbeat music) - Spare a 20? - No. - Want a drink? Five? - Here. - What's this? - Take it. It's a cinnamon roll. - Does this have nuts? I'm allergic. - No, it doesn't have nuts. - All right. No money? - I don't have any money. - I'll take a check. (gentle suspenseful music) - (bleep) kickers. - I hear what you're saying, man. You know, you might catch Besides she's probably all Big (bleep) Johnson, or whatever It would be like opening a door God (bleep). Hell, man, if she needs nine inches I just might have to hit it twice. I ain't had no strange in a coon's age. - Your old lady can't say that. - Hearty (bleep) har, har. You're a funny (bleep). Hey, did you see that 69 big block in that Penny Saver for sale? - Hell, yeah. That was a 454 rat rod motor. Man, I could kick some serious But I'm not so crazy about that - Nah, anybody style's all right with me. - Yeah, I think you proved that already. - (bleep). Man, I gotta get my hands - Hell, yeah, me too. Maybe we ought to take that meth deal Morgan was talking about. - Man, you know I don't like selling to the (bleep bleep), or the damn (bleep). - If we only sell the people we like, it's gonna take like six Morgan ain't gonna like that. I don't think I wanna - I think we just need to You know, they go so much smoother. - Yeah. Something will turn up. (upbeat music) - I'm home. Babe. What am I getting a silent treatment? - Oh, hi. Sorry, I didn't realize just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen of the - Okay, you're being real extra right now. I see you're in a mood. So, I mean, what happened? Why are you mad? - Where do I start? Let's see. I got rejected from a job today and I offered to buy a since he was starving, but he didn't care And I used my nail money so I couldn't get my nails done. And then when I was walking home, those two redneck hillbillies I thought they were gonna And the top it all off, my husband doesn't get home until after eight o'clock at Yeah. I was on a sales call, West Coast, up until about 30 minutes ago. - It's fine. It's okay. - Okay, clearly you are not happy. - It's fine. Don't worry about it. - All right. - And why were you on the It's not even your territory. - I know, but I'm covering for Ralo. He's on vacation. The good news is, whatever get to keep the commission. - [Kesha] Okay. - Let's not fight, all right? - Okay. - Food smells good. How's the baby? - The same that she was 14 Sitting in my tummy, resting, - Okay, look, you tell me you're pregnant, then you want me to stop my side hustle that I've been doing to make money, then you tell me you want a car but you want me to stop working overtime? I mean, what's next? You gonna want me to quit - Actually that's not really a bad idea. - (bleep). Self fulfilling (bleep) prophecy. - You know what, you're right. It's not fair. I'm just expressing my needs to you. It's my first time being pregnant and I'm lonely and I'm scared and I need money and I need security and I want you around all the time, okay? I know it's a lot and I know I just don't know what and I don't need you to I just need you to shut up and listen. - Well, why don't you just say that? - I'm gonna (bleep) kick your ass. (gentle upbeat music) - What's up, Aiden? - So is there any way I can - You wanna give up Give it to another sales rep? - No, that's not what I mean. I just need to spend more time at home. - I'm not understanding - Wife's pregnant. I need to spend nights at home, so I figured I could manage my accounts via cell phone or the internet. Just less in person. - Shit, more time at home, Aiden with a pregnant wife? That's the last thing you want. I'll tell you what, we're trying to expand Maybe I could arrange a little - I appreciate that, but no thank you. - Okay. Well, I'll mull it over, and we can see what we can come up with. But in the meantime, I need you to attend a conference in St. Louis this Thursday. It's a three day event, but you can have a fourth if you know what I mean. - That's okay. I won't need an extra day. - Well, whatever. I offered. But... Oh, well, we'll circle back to Okay then. - Good talk. - Thanks for stopping by. - Hey, babe. - Hey, Al. Are you stalking me or something? - No. Well , not really. I mean, unless you want me to. - Creeper. - Just kidding. Is that your lunch? - No, I just found it on this bus stop. You want some? - Maybe if we had some - That would make my more interesting. - Jeez. Kesha, don't you ever cook? - All the time, actually. I just hate doing it and it's like I just finished and then whoop, it's breakfast - I make a killer chicken casserole. - Okay. - I'm saying I enjoy making it. Christ almighty. Kesha, I'm inviting you - Oh. Oh, oh, that's very sweet of you. Thanks - Tonight? - No, I can't tonight, but I'll let you know when. - Yeah, sure. - No, seriously, I'll let you know. - Okay then. I'm gonna go to class. Enjoy your lunch. - Thanks. - Jake, what's up? - Few things boss. We're up about 10% in where we introduced the blue and we're also getting a but it's not doing much yet. - Okay, good. What else? - About the guy that has dealers- - (bleep) guy is still out there? Why hasn't someone - Yeah, he hit two more down in Baton Rouge for about three grand, and then back in Dallas again for just under six grand. What the (bleep)? - But we may have some good news. I think we may have a picture of him. A pair of hookers saw the They were taking a selfie ignored them, walked shot him right in the foot. They described it to a T. I mean they could just be you know, for some info, I suppose. But they are in our network so they know what happens - Verify the pic. Make sure it's not (bleep) blurry. Date, time, all that shit, and pay them. Get rid of this (bleep) guy already. - But we don't know where he is yet. - But that's not hard. You said he hit Dallas, he hit Austin. Where else? and Little Rock. - What about Wichita? - Yeah, once. - Okay. Tulsa? Oklahoma City? - Not yet. - Well start your search there. That's where the lives. He's hitting everywhere in - Okay. So once I verify the I'll get it to our people But what are you going - 20 grand but no bullshit. I swear every swinging (bleep) And I'll tell you what, I I want this (bleep) face on the Or better yet, I want his head in a box at my front porch of my house. And if anyone else is involved, - I'm on it. - Hey, Wallace, it's Jake. - All right, babe, what you hungry for? - [Kesha] Anything, I'm starving. - Yeah. What about Rockies? - I'm not in the mood for Rockies. Tacos? - I had tacos for lunch. How you feel about seafood? Anyway, FYI, talked to the boss today. He's agreed to start So as soon as I get back next week, he's gonna start trimming it back. - Oh, that's good. Wait, where are you going? - Conference, St. Louis. But it's only for three days. - What the (bleep), Aiden? You were supposed to go in there and request less days on the road. How do you come back out with a three-day trip to St. Louis? How does that work? - Look, it's my boss. He said he is on it. It's fine. - Yeah, next, you'll be in Alaska. Watch. What about Charbroiler? - Hmm, maybe Charleston? - Hmm, yeah, maybe. (gentle upbeat music) - I don't even know what they were talking about back there. - I know. - Hey, what time is it? - It is 2:40. - Is that your husband? - No. I'm joking. I mean, honestly don't even because I haven't seen him in so long. I'm still joking. - He must have a huge (bleep). - What the fuck, Al? - I'm just saying, man. There must be something great about him the hold he has over you. - I mean, I did marry him. - Okay, so no reason to sit I'll pick you up at six, make you dinner, and keep you company. - Yeah. - What's that? - It's my address. - Oh, I remember where you live. (Al laughs) (gentle pensive music) - Hey, you recognize this (bleep) here? - That looks like that old bull that's (bleep) my next ex cow. - That looks like about - You (bleep) talking about? - That's what Morgan's - No shit. - (bleep), I wouldn't - That sure as hell is him. What's he holding you reckon? - Ah, he didn't say. Well, it might be... Might be nothing. Might be something big. It might be something he did in the past. You never can't tell - Shit, 15 grand, man. That's real money. - That's eight grand each, plus whatever's in the (bleep) house. - I wouldn't expect except maybe his old lady. You know, we better not (bleep) around. Somebody else will get in there first. - Tomorrow night, you figure? - Yep. - Ta-da! - Wow. - [Al] So this is the living room. - This is so cute. Did you... It smells good in here. Did you already start? - [Al] Yeah. It should be done in about 30 minutes. - Oh my god, the kitchen. You know, you never did tell - I work from home. Yeah. - What? (gentle apprehensive music) What is this? - I do webcam sessions, Kesha. - Oh, okay. I mean, I'm not. - No, I get it. But look, I make a hundred bucks an hour. I don't run the business There are some guys that do that. I just log in. And at the end of the week, I get a check for the hours I worked. - And you don't split - It's all solo shows. - So let me get this straight. You... You get paid a hundred bucks Mm-hmm. - [Kesha] Seriously? - If you're interested, I The guy runs it. - Mm, I don't know. I... It's not really my thing. - Yeah, no, I get it. But if you're ever interested. Anyways, I'd guide you through - I'm sure you would, Al - Allison. It's short for Allison. - Allison. - Anyways, there's the and the dining room's - And... - And? - Allison, I've never done - I know. It'll be okay. I promise. (gentle apprehensive music) (sinister music) - Look at these (bleep). - What you looking at, bitch? - I think I know that, (bleep). - [Friend] What? - Yeah, that's the (bleep) - Bullshit. For real? - (bleep), look at the picture. - Let's go. (sinister music) - What's good, brother? - I'm looking for some bars. - I ain't got no bars, man. You better get the (bleep) off. - Or what? (indistinct) The (bleep) you gonna do? What the (bleep) you gonna do? (guns firing) - Did we got them (bleep) Sammy? - I think we got 'em. - Sammy, quit playing. (sinister music) - (Bleep, bleep, bleep bleep). - So, straight to class or - [Kesha] Home. - [Al] That's probably a good idea. - [Kesha] Why is that? - Because your dress is on inside out. So when are you gonna tell your husband? - I told you he was out - So we could do it again tonight? Well, when you do tell him, - I am not. - Why... Why wouldn't you? - Allison, you knew what this was before you even started with me. I never led you on - No, no, no, that's not what I'm saying. - Well then what? - I don't know. I thought you'd wanna keep going. - Al, I never wanted to I was just frustrated and lonely. And... Okay, sure. I had like a secret fantasy. But we just bought a house and those things have to be my priority. - I just figured things - Honey, it was the most And you are amazing. I just... It's not something that I and I can't say that it's - But you can't say it won't. - (bleep) me, Al, you're relentless. - Anytime. (gentle apprehensive music) - Wow. It's not what I thought, but it was nice. - Hey. Mom, it's me, Kesha. Kesha, your daughter, mama. I'm fine. He's fine, he's good. Did I tell you we just bought a house? Yeah. It's nice. It's in a good area. Mm-hmm. You know, just thought about Yeah. Yeah. That's crazy. Did I tell you that Aiden's Mm-hmm, yeah, we're trying to save up, you know, get a little nest egg going. So, how do you feel about being a grandma? Mom, I'm trying to tell you I'm pregnant. Yeah, yeah. I don't know why it took you Mm-hmm. About six weeks. Yeah. You know what, I'm not going to class today. As a matter of fact, I think I'm just gonna stay here and rest and take a bit of a nap. Can I call you later tonight? Okay, tomorrow. Fine, Friday. Friday then. Okay, mm-hmm. Love you too. Yeah, bye. (gentle music) - Car's gone. Maybe they went up to the What do you reckon? - I figured we'd go in Can't no one see us go in from the back. I figured we can get two, before he gets back. That way, we can skedaddle after we finish him off. - Fair enough. What the (bleep) are you doing, Junior? - Well, I'm gonna park my car, buddy. - Here? - Well, if I park out by the house, somebody's likely to recognize the truck. - (bleep) damn, You're so ignorant and you couldn't pour piss without the directions - [Junior] Okay, wise ass. - You don't wanna be caught carrying five armloads of Two blocks down the street after whacking a (bleep bleep). God (bleep), son. - Oh, fine. Where the (bleep) do you want me to park? - Well, not here. (suspenseful music) - Just two houses short right That way, each one thinks (suspenseful music continues) (suspenseful eerie music) Jesus (bleep) Christ, you - Sometimes cold steel's - My daddy always said never (suspenseful music) - Hi, my name is Kesha Barnes. I live at 3313 Eastwood Avenue. I think there's a I don't think so. Yes. Okay. No, I guess not. Thanks. - Damn, find the light. (Kesha gasps) - Man, they ain't got (sleep) in here. - They're in my house. Yes, I need help now to the cops. They're in my house. (suspenseful music) (burglar groans) - (bleep)... That black (bleep) just I'm gonna catch your (bleep) - Get the (bleep) out, (bleep). - (bleep)! - It's (bleep) empty. (gun fires) Did you see that? - God (bleep). (gun fires) - Can't slice my tits off, (bleep bleep). Yeah, a few minutes. (gentle pensive music) - Jake, what's up? - Hey, boss. Hey, Morgan wants to about the new product he sells for us. - Tell Morgan he can go (bleep) himself. He keeps asking me about this (bleep) and I'm gonna send his ass to El Paso. - I got you. I'll straighten his ass out, boss. - Hey, what about that Can you find her? The brunette. I wanna get with that. Oh, yeah. (gentle pensive music) (gun fires) (gentle pensive music continues)