Etymology, let's talk about that while we're all here. Etymology, that is a study of words. Yeah, you know that. Entomology, that is a study of bugs. Yeah, and I don't know what you call it when you study words that bug you, but that's what I do pretty much throughout the day and I don't know, man. I don't know if this is true of other languages but the English language, man, we've got a lot of jacked up stupid words. They got to go. They got to go. Unbeknownst. You're gone. Unbeknownst. Nothing has ever been beknownst. That's what bugs me about it. You hear people saying, &quot;oh, I was unbeknownst to me.&quot; I had no idea but nobody ever calls him on it. I'm like, geez, dude. At what point did you beknownit? (audience laughing) You had to beknow. We beknew something was going on. How could you not beknow? Extraordinary, out. Extra ordinary, more ordinary. Who wants that? (audience laughing) You are extraordinary, can I tell you that, man? You are ordinary plus. Extravaganza, so long. More vaganza. What am I supposed to do with all this vaganza I got laying about? Deterred. (audience laughing) Don't say it ever again. I read that the other day. He was going to go downtown but he was deterred. Got to be kidding me. Oh my gosh. (audience laughing) I have to go downtown. (audience laughing) I wonder what that deturding process is all about. It sounds awful. (audience laughing) Sometimes it's a single word like that that bugs me and then sometimes it's a whole string of words. I don't even understand how they ever came together, to tell you the truth. Dead in the water. (audience laughing) Why is that different from just dead? (audience laughing) &quot;Did you hear what happened? &quot;Joey died.&quot; Oh gosh, no. Was he wet? (audience laughing) What? Horrible. He was wet. (audience laughing) It goes without saying and not to mention should just be followed by silence (audience laughing) but they're not. Every time somebody says not to mention, they just go right on mentioning something. (audience laughing) It was the least I could do. Why would you say that ever? (audience laughing) It was the least. That's what you chose to do? The least? (audience laughing) Every time somebody says that to me, all I hear is well, I really wanted to do nothing but I couldn't get away with it so I pushed myself and I did the minimally acceptable amount. (audience laughing) There's dozens of them. It goes on and on and on and on. By all means. You ever been hit with that one? Oh, it's a favorite of a friend of mine. He comes over the other day and I said, can I get you some water? And he said, &quot;sure. &quot;By all means.&quot; It's like oh gah, wait a minute. You want me to get you water by all means? You want it from a hose? You want it from a squirt gun? You want a hand scoop it out of the aquarium? How do you want this water? (audience laughing) Let me know when you've had enough. (audience laughing) Many, many meanings to go. (audience laughing) I just think we talk before we're actually thinking about what we're saying. I think that's what-- I was walking around today and I heard a guy go, &quot;I don't have my watch on. &quot;Feel kind of naked.&quot; Oh no, you don't. No, you don't. No. If I came up here kind of naked but had my watch on, yeah, we'd all feel it. (audience laughing) Oh, you're telling me I'm nude? I had no idea because I'm wearing my watch it feels like I'm completely clothed. Blahbity, blahbity, blahbity. (audience laughing) That's why I envy the chicken. Yeah, the chicken. Are you kidding me? One noise your whole life, worldwide. Just, (clucking like a chicken) And the other chickens know what he's saying. That's what gets me like, bakaw! bak bak bak. Carry on a chicken conversation. (audience laughing) I got to thinking about chicken stand up comedy. Some bird come up here for a whole room full of birds, just (bird squaking) And the whole chicken crowd, Bakaw! Bakaw! Bakaw! (audience laughing) That's the sort of stuff you think about when you work an hour a day. (audience laughing) A lot of free time on my hands.