&gt;&gt; ALLEN: I'm Peter Allen. And I'm the director introduce Daniel Goleman to you. Daniel Goleman recently been hired here myself and having we focus on the quantitative evidence of intellect. scores because we believe they demonstrate IQ matters, of course, but Daniel Goleman on the argument that IQ is only a part of personal lives and not necessarily the most addresses the role that emotions such as anger, happiness play in all aspects of our lives. manage these emotions and that we therefore with our emotions and through them the relationships and our friends. Perhaps most interestingly, power to mold not only human experience, but power of education and in his belief in the positive characteristics like empathy are an optimist. What distinguishes Daniel Goleman however, is his grounding in psychology and from Harvard and a first-rate journalism background half a dozen books that explore the physical relationships with what we experience as everyday Intelligence: The New Science of Human Relationships.&quot; important roles in numerous organizations, Social and Emotional Learning and the Mind Association has given him its career achievement a fellow of the American Association for the today draws on recent data from cognitive adds to the IQ intelligence of which most show that skills such as self-awareness, emotional have a greater impact than raw intelligence performance, leadership, and the creation smarter, more empathetic and more self-aware Goleman to Google and Google to Daniel Goleman. &gt;&gt; GOLEMAN: Thank you, Peter, for that very just hearing about this is not going to make It might interest you in pursuing some of that these soft skills have hard value in Even though the culture of tech may not necessarily elements of emotional intelligence, implicitly, no matter what they do. And I want to give concepts that might help you rethink what So here is the question. What is the relationship of IQ, and emotional intelligence? So, by ourselves, how we handle our relationships, that, because of the way the brain is structured, they are catalytic for whatever other abilities of them, to apply them, and to leverage them. about it. If you were to do a scatter plot against emotional intelligence, they're roughly distribution. Now, if you take this pool and that hires, that places a premium on cognitive you've done is really interesting because is IQ of 150 or whatever, it's very high. difference for IQ, a very little variation large difference for emotional intelligence. contributes to success in an environment like So there's actually a floor effect here for to help you be highly effective in this work from every other IQ on the floor. Interesting. a plane next to me once. He turned out to said, &quot;You know, the real job of the board And we did an internal study of alumnus of what did they look like as students.&quot; And the quants, the 4.0s, the people who were who ended up being so successful that they It was people who were good enough to get who had other abilities already. They were starting their own businesses on the side who became the founders and heads of companies afford to become our biggest donors at MIT.&quot; they did a study, interesting study of how success in that career. They did that in the ed school. And does anybody care to hazard say, GMATs, GREs and career success? &gt;&gt; GOLEMAN: Negative... what? &gt;&gt; GOLEMAN: Low. Random. It's random. It's are designed to predict one thing only--that graduate school. They do that very well. The that's been found in hundreds of studies is for four percent of the variation. It's a way in an organization like this, I'd like by a professor of mine in Harvard named David He said--back in the '70s, he wrote what psychology journal--he said, "If you want don't look at their GPA, don't look at their Instead, begin by looking in your own organization the one the person is applying for, identify 10 percent, the star performers, compare them method. Identify the traits or competencies in the average and hire people who look like now. It's a very widespread methodology among out who should be--who should we be hiring, help people develop so that we can be successful to Emotional Intelligence, I looked at a couple basically in one thing only, and that was developed, identified independently by companies are purely cognitive, IQ-like abilities, and And those are the emotional intelligence ones. basically at every level, these emotional in predicting who would become outstanding. you went in the organization, the more it a competence model of the abilities that we've to 90 percent of them are in the emotional threshold ability--particularly, of course, need to be smart enough to get in the game. that is going to allow you to become an emergent person who is most effective? And, here, it in a major way. These are what are called you the top six distinguishing competencies contributors in the tech sector. And is kind in many different tech companies. And you number one competence that distinguishes stars to improve performance, to make whatever I'm more effective. And the sign of this competence internal standards for success. They're not it's that they themselves know how good something standard. You work long hours to achieve that have this like to keep score. You like metrics. better or worse? How much better can you be? sign of this is setting challenging goals. Does this make any sense? Yeah? It resonates. or influence. And this is being able to make own in a debate, being able to marshal data when, you know, if people are starting to mode, maybe tell and compelling story or something think that manifests here? Not that important? can nod or no. &gt;&gt; GOLEMAN: Say again? [INDISTINCT]. &gt;&gt; Yeah. competency here at Google, necessarily. That Google is, you know, in a sense, a universal but quite close to it. Number three has been means pattern recognition, seeing what matters, what's crucial, to make essential connections them, to recognize what will make a difference, Number four is analysis--breaking problems seeing the implication within a complex system through and ramify over there, for example, three and four are purely cognitive abilities. intelligence domain. The next two are also Taking on challenges without being told to and in being self-confident, trusting your guy who graduated at 12, he was like supremely to operate independently, not being told what these may be more normative than distinguishing. here at Google where you have kind of the and look around if you can identify what makes are here that make people outstanding versus but kind of just normal every day here. And you would be using the same methodology I'm basis of emotional intelligence versus IQ And if you humor me, this is like a side view The brain of all from the bottom up in evolution, for survival and has been shaped by what works once we got to mammals, you needed to have have in evolution the primary survival function. called the amygdala, which has the brain's perception. Everything we see in every moment part of it goes to the amygdala, not to other it to see is this a threat. That's a constant more generally, the amygdala has presumably question for survival: Do I eat it or does to go Google, because in evolution, if you on this design of brain to us. The amygdala rather be safe than sorry. It gets a very thinks it has a match, it has the ability hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. This it changes the entire way the brain prioritizes it means that, for example, if the emotion us is what preoccupies attention. It captures the memory so that we remember and think about us at the moment. And it does all the other takes--it sends energy to the limbs so we So, it's the classic fight-flight-freeze trigger. today the way it always has, and we don't threats. We have--we operate in a complex symbolic threats. He is not treating me fairly. threats today trigger the HPA axis, the amygdala. a distressing emotion, it means that attention which is suboptimal for most of life in ways that the amygdala does is create--when it what is called an &quot;amygdala hijack,&quot; the signs emotional response. It's very sudden and intense, send an email that when that that settles, an &quot;amygdala hijack.&quot; And it happens to really when the amygdala takes us over, because we're repertoires that were learned unconsciously the good news is when we have an impulse from behind the forehead, which is the prefrontal It's okay. No problem. Sorry. &gt;&gt; GOLEMAN: You know the guy. So, the prefrontal executive center. The PFC draws together information amygdala hijack, like these guy is not treating him--I'm sure it never happens here, but just goes up to the executive center and it scans Googles the brain very quickly and it tells need to know now, like, &quot;Oh, but this is your &quot;So, I'm not going to slug him. I'm going is exactly the difference between cortical, solely in the top of the brain, the neocortex--that's abilities, which integrate the executive center just the amygdala, it's an extended network The amygdala is very widely connected throughout intelligence at the neural level, I'm talking prefrontal, subcortical integration of abilities. There are four different domains. The first Prefrontal cortex, while I'm on the subject, it drives and takes over the right side of when someone is having a hijack, someone is in the amygdala and related circuits and a good, we're having a great day, we're... good and so on, you see a very different picture and the left is hardly active. Each of us--it's Davidson at the University of Wisconsin--each activation that predicts quite accurately curve for it. Most of us are in the middle. very far to the right, it means that you are disorder. If you're very far to the left, have a bad day. And what the left does that circuit for the amygdala. So, the amygdala what are called depressogenic thoughts, something anxiety or make you really angry. And the up. I don't want to... I don't need to hear people who have this ability have more good more enthusiasm and better moods, basically. have to do with self mastery. And they are The first of these is self-awareness--knowing it. Self-awareness is very important for decision-making, also business or even technical decision-making a study done by a man named Antonio Damasio. And because he is an expert on this circuitry, had a prefrontal brain tumor which was operated surgery they snipped the connection between to see Damasio because his life was collapsing. wrong. The lawyer's life had collapsed in just as well after surgery as before, but He couldn't keep any job. His wife left him. brother's spare bedroom. And, in despair, an expert on the circuitry, can you figure a battery of neuropsychological tests. Nothing before surgery. IQ was very high still after keep a job. And then Damasio got a clue. He our next appointment? He realized that the cons of every hour for the next two weeks, words, Damasio argues, when we have a thought, we're making a decision, our emotional centers Damasio argues that in order to make a good we follow, should our team go for plan A or you know, X other guys I've dated, should job for another--all of those decisions depend emotions. The wisdom of emotions is not just that goes on very low in the brain, in the absorbs everything we do in life, every situation that didn't work. When I said that, I really Our life wisdom on any topic is stored in primitive that it has zero connectivity to knows in words. It tells us in feelings, has of the brain and to the gut. And it tells feeling. So part of self-awareness is the And this is very important for example, not and integrity. The answer to the question sense of ethics--meaning, priorities, values It comes to us through the same nonverbal attune to feeling to read yes or no. So it's second ability in emotional intelligence is has to do with our inhibitory ability. I don't the disturbing, crippling, dysphoric emotions, of course are what make life rich. You want for motivation for maintaining goal and pursuing prefrontal cortex with the connection to the us keep in mind how good we're going to feel important around here, I think, because if you about how it's going to feel, you give circuitry. Another ability has to do with impulsiveness and learning. There was a study many years ago with four-year-olds, kids in of professors and graduate of Stanford. And sat down at a small table, and a big juicy the experimenter says to the kids, "You but of you wait to eat till I come back for Then the experimenter leaves the room. This tries the souls of any four-year-old, I think. &gt;&gt; GOLEMAN: Or the rest of us for that matter, funny. Some of the kids will smell it and Some kids go off in the corner and sing and of the kids wait out the endless four or five back and they get the two. And about a third on the spot. But the payoff finding came fourteen they're about to graduate high school. And grabbed and the ones who waited. Very interesting, from such a small data point. The kids who along better with their friends. They're still goals. And the stunner was this. On their at 16 or more than standard deviation. I told the SAT, they were stunned. They said that's whose parents have--one parent has a graduate no education. It's a huge difference. But very high IQ family, so what's going on here? agitation is the sign of the amygdala being the amygdala do something or have a predicament And, that is--remember what I said that when fixates actually on what is disturbing us, me. The melodramas of, you know, late elementary it occupies the space of what's called the You may remember from cognitive science the a magic number seven plus or minus two bits of information have to do with those other one bit of information left for what the teacher which is an achievement test--it's not an of how much you learned over the course of handicapped in this ability, you will not that study. And I think it's true in any situation, trying to do. The extent to which your mind going to shrink cognitive capacity and make On the other hand, you could say that the the amygdala is an enabler of cognitive capacity for what you're trying to do. So, let's look we were to--this is the way to map what's reactivity against performance in any domain. performance and here's high and low HPA actively. U. This has been known for a hundred years is that when your HPA axis low, that's another just not into it, not engaged. And if you a very fuzzy pattern of activation. Basically, work cortex or whatever is going on. However, the closer the deadline, the more interesting an indicator of HPA level--goes up and performance is where you want to get and stay. This is if you know the literature on flow. Some of a guy named [INDISTINCT] Mahalia--Mahalia for short. And he did something really interesting from many, many domains like brains surgeons, and so on, and he asked them to describe the yourself. Even you were surprised by how well describing phenomenologically the same brain is fully focused, it's unbreakable, undistracted. but adequate, able to handle it and it feels we do in life voluntarily we do because they are--you know, when you really have--you know, One of the signs of it is feeling good. Damasio, that the feeling of enjoyment during an activity functioning. Optimal cognitive functioning You know, you can be creative. You can be can figure--solve problems at your best. Then, like you've got too much to do, too little apart, you feel frazzled. The neurophysiology gotten to a point where you're not only secreting adrenaline and things fall apart cortically causing the frazzle, with just dealing with be for cortisol effectiveness, to leverage place. It's a place that is determined by argue that the self-mastery aspect of emotional abilities or talents you may have. Now, the have to do with what's called the social brain. The discovery occurred when neuroscientists one body and one person and to look at what two bodies and two people are interacting. even know existed. They discovered that the connect with the social brain of the other that is designed to attune to and regulate the other person. The big, the first big breakthrough neurons were discovered one day when some cortex of a monkey and they're doing single were watching a neuron which only fired when cell fired and the monkey hadn't moved. The what's going on. It was a hot day and a lab cone and every time he took a lick, the neuron That's what mirror neurons do in our brains. a ray of neurons, that elicit and activate is doing, feeling, or intending. And this This is what lets all the tacit, the tacit smoothly occur without our having to think unconscious level, beneath consciousness, to end. In a room, when you got a group trying moment before someone announces it that we've everyone else's non-verbals all the time. looks like this,&quot; and everybody nods and then neurons. Another thing that's very important subtext to every human interaction. No matter making each other feel a little worse or a at this sign off level. They've looked at people who are identified by some hard metrics ten percent, and they watched how they interacted those most effective leaders laughed three times more in that interaction than the mediocre whose sole task is to spot a smile or a laugh like an intimate brain to brain connection. on during moments of rapport, you're seeing the physiology and neurology of two people's if things are awful, just not connecting, the physiology is independent. But when people know, had a good rapport, we had good chemistry, I'm talking about [INDISTINCT]. I'm talking function. We're on the same page. The ingredients Both people are paying full attention. You're a choreographed dance. You know, when I do to do unless we're doing each other or offering this is what creates a feeling of being well emergent from that is it feels good. So, the let the social brains do their dance. That findings from the social brain, one has--I by one are having the brain's image and they're shock. You see the HPA axis light up. If someone down. If a little bit, however, if her husband calm. In other words, we are biological allies who we loved. Your mere presence for someone something inside their body which is healthful. it can work quite the other way. I was talking she's very upset and she got a condolence brother died and she thought she could really barring her feelings of loss and grief. And hear the clicking of a keyboard. Really? Are this guy was doing his e-mail, and she said And the circuitry for emotional hurts, social pain. So, because we don't have enough time, in text stars, but it's in the books or--and Yeah. Some of you. Okay. That's beyond my &gt;&gt; The rest must [INDISTINCT]. stomach, so I guess that's the end of my time. news is that the circuitry which manages these through life. It's called neuroplasticity. this circuitry if we have the right learning build this platform generically, and this Davidson, who discovered the left-right racial and he finds that there's a [INDISTINCT] response the stronger the circuitry in the left prefrontal distressing emotions, and the better you feel. he's found in studies--study in a high pressure if you start to meditate, you see the beginning the first eight weeks. So, the neural basis It's the bottom line. And the Meng tells me a week and I think there's going to be a course are interested. But let me end with a finding was one guy and he was actually here, Matthieu to see, those that kind of studying the social he did in a kind of a debate, a confrontation. marital research were a couple will have a have their neurophysiology measured, [INDISTINCT], he was a monk, they couldn't ask to do it survey in the UC system of who the most abrasive enough, everybody agreed right away. So, they science would you take part in this. They said sure. And--but then as the day grew near, and more unreasonable. So they had to dump So the day comes and Ricard, who gave up his Institute, his mentor actually won a Noble in a hut, in Nepal for 25 years. The proposition ten-year position and do the same thing. So show that--or heart rate rather, and so on--showed was really worked up, really agitated. His calm. Over the course of the 15-minute debate the professor gets more and more, and more such a good time, he didn't want to stop. well-groomed, left prefrontal cortex, we can interaction with everyone during the course time for questions? you like to take some. Shall we? a mic there actually. It may be... &gt;&gt; GOLEMAN: One or two. We need to vacate &gt;&gt; So, there's a recent book by Al Gore, Assault percent has a lot to do with research like and fear drive things. Have you seen that? if he's taking too many liberties or if it's &gt;&gt; GOLEMAN: I'm afraid I haven't read the &gt;&gt; Oh, okay. people with ADD is they're more impulsive... &gt;&gt; ...and that the same level of stress which people can send them into... grow the HPA &gt;&gt; GOLEMAN: Sure. &gt;&gt; GOLEMAN: Well, you could say that meditation kids because what it does is strengthen their I personally feel it makes more sense to give building than to medicate them. have children who are--don't seem to have &gt;&gt; GOLEMAN: First of all... &gt;&gt; GOLEMAN: And what? &gt;&gt; GOLEMAN: Can pets help? Well, a really First of all, the thing about kids is by definition, The--there's the learning, the reason is that of the brain to be put in place, atomically have to be patient with kids because they abilities that we do. And when you help them there are programs called social emotional and one thing they have is on the wall of you're upset, remember the stop light, red Yellow light, think of a range of things you And any time you as a parent can help your the inhibitory circuitry left PFC, which--and brain is to help kids understand why they makes other people feel. And you need to teach level as kids change and develop mentally. would be fine. fan of all your work. &gt;&gt; Have you ever study people that are in function of the brain work a little bit better? &gt;&gt; GOLEMAN: Well, is your girlfriend here? &gt;&gt; GOLEMAN: I can't help you understand your I talk about the three different brain systems an attachment system, which is who you care other is a caring system, care taking, the life you wanted to take care of or nurture. things are activated and aimed at the same But the one of those three that most strongly is caring. So that's just a general advice. girlfriend particularly, but just in general.