Hey everyone, welcome In today's video, I'm going to be giving you a complete print on demand tutorial. Now, this video is going to cover everything that I personally do. And it's literally going to to start print on demand to and cover everything in Now, throughout this video, I'll explain things here on camera, but also I will put so you can follow along step Now lastly, before we here and get started, I just wanna say that this is There is a ton of information so it is going to move at a quick pace. And I really hope that you This literally could be a full I'm just giving it to It has all of these special everything that I have learned to use is all going to be So all I ask is if you Please just give it a thumbs up and let me know down in the comments. So without further ado, let's and get started in this video. So the very first thing to cover here is, what is print on demand exactly, Just so we are on the same page as we go through this tutorial. So essentially what the print is you create T-shirt designs, you upload them to a on demand websites. And then people can they can find those designs or other apparel, and they can actually on those items. But the whole kicker here that they ordered will be and all the customer by the print on demand website themselves. So us as the print on demand seller, we are only responsible for and uploading them to the So to show you exactly let's come over to Amazon. Which if you didn't know, is actually the largest print Not many people know that on Amazon. But to show you what this looks like, if you type in a type of and you scroll through the results, you'll see a bunch of these And any of these listings that they are actually people who and then Amazon is Amazon is creating this listing to show what it would look like. When anyone orders this item, Amazon's going to print it, ship it, take care of all of the customer service, but you would never know that Now, something I will say something like this, it does not have the Amazon This could actually be a person where they print the items themselves, they ship it out themselves. So that is mixed in here, but of the print on demand business model, they will all be labeled with So to show you what this looks like, if we click in on one of these items here, the listing is going to show up exactly like any other You can see what the product looks like, you can actually change the And the reason that you is because none of these So once you place an and then you come down, you pick what kind of shirt and you pick your size, you can actually just you can buy it now, and it ships just like any Now, with that being said, if you do everything you literally just have and then you sit back and That is literally it. You don't even need for this to happen is coming to the websites that I'm going to show you automatically on their own, so you don't have to do any advertising or anything like that. Now, saying this out loud like it's too good to be true, but I've literally been for almost 10 years now. And I'm just trying to give and create the things that I wish I had when I was starting out. So I really hope that you Trust me when I say there is plenty to go around Now, a couple important on from here just to tie Amazon is the largest print but they are not the only print What many people don't know is that when you create a and you upload it to Amazon you can also upload that exact same design with the exact same title and description to other print on-demand This means you are going and sales from not only that I'll show you in Now what's going to be really on many different print on and I figured out which and those are the ones that I'm going to be showing you in this tutorial, just so you're not wasting your time with other print on demand websites out there that don't And then the very last here is that there's of print on demand. There is passive print on demand, which I've just showed you here. This is basically you upload the designs, the websites do everything for you, and you just collect your paychecks. And then the other way is This is where you are you're uploading your own and creating your own listings, and then every time you get an order, you can actually send that order to a print on demand fulfiller. They will ship it out to do any of the printing, but you are still responsible bring your own buyers, you have to still do your When you do this passive route here, all of the customer service So needless to say, I can definitely tell you over the years, the passive route is and that is what this entire tutorial is going to be based on. Okay, so let's move right and start to get into the fun stuff. So the very first thing is that when you for print on demand, you can create those designs or any topic that you want. The only important thing to to avoid copyrighted These are most commonly song lyrics, or company or company phrases. As long as you are avoiding those things, you can create your So to give you a perfect example of this, something like this or even going back and These are all great ideas, this is kind of the sweet You're creating designs that for themselves or buy as that's interested in that topic, So for you getting started what I would recommend about what are your hobbies What are things that you know that's going to keep this engaging, it's going to keep it very interesting and fun for you to get So once you roughly have and remember you can change as many times as you want to, then I would come over to etsy.com. Now, although we are not Etsy for print on demand, we're I have used Etsy for years of what kind of designs I So type in your niche, and then &quot;T-shirt,&quot; and then just scroll through here. Now, we're not looking for and just copy, but we're to get our brain going that as inspiration for our designs. So as you scroll through here, you can see &quot;Camping because That's just a funny shirt for camping. You've got &quot;Camping crew.&quot; As you keep scrolling through, you're just going to see more ideas here. Now, something that I have learned, and this is going to be the or strategy for you to use, is yes, it gets your brain going, but it's not going to tell you to create within this overall niche that are likely to sell well. That's where I've learned to use tools where it gives you kind on what gaps there are within camping that are actually going So now that you've seen to come up with ideas and now let me show you how I currently do it. So this is a tool called Merch Informer. If you have seen my other you will see that I use this quite a bit. I'm going to show you a few different ways that I use this specific tool And I will say that this is a paid tool. So the pricing here is about You only need the newbie plan to do this. And I've actually been that I have a coupon code that I'll put it down in the description, but it gives you 20% off so it should bring it down Now, what's nice about a three day free trial, so you can actually use for three days. So you can do this whole tutorial without having to pay anything. So with that being said, and then I'll show you how to use it. Okay, so once you are we're going to come to the left side where all of these really expand into other print on demand Specifically what we are is to go to keyword research Now, this is the beauty Literally you just come up here and you type in what the niche and then you click search. And then literally in a couple seconds, it's going to break down and show you where the gaps are, where other people are Now, when you hear camping overall, you might just think to create But as you're scrolling through here, we're looking on the left side, this is going to tell you what And then we're looking at competition, and we're just looking for the green ones. That means that it's low competition specifically on that sub niche. Now, I'll show you some examples, I'll scroll through this entire thing and pick a couple out here, we will use them for this tutorial. But the super important thing to know here is that as print on-demand those big overall niches those are all going to start to get full and more competitive. However, by having a tool like this, this is literally your secret what are all of those sub that everyone else doesn't know about and people haven't thought So literally by scrolling through here, you can skip over everything that is red, and we're just going to scroll that are green, &quot;Camping Not all of these are going right off the bat. &quot;Camping is,&quot; you could but that's not what we're looking for. We're looking for, and I'll show you exactly Okay, here's a bunch of Perfect. Apparently there are a but they are made for men. You wouldn't think to do that there are not many That is exactly what I'm talking And then you've got more here, so actually camping in a travel camper, not actually setting up a tent. &quot;Beer camping, family So literally family camping, and camping women. Just like that, I've literally or low competition gaps within camping. If you go into print on I'm about to show you, and you create designs you are going to be and inevitably you are going to get sales because you're one of the You're not uploading into So once you've got this we will start with camping women and I'll show you how to do this. And then once you've you can literally come back all of these other ones So this is the next tool It is called ChatGPT. It is a totally free that you can use. The website to get to And by the way, I'll put links to all of So you don't have to memorize any of this, all the links will be waiting for you. However, at the moment this tool is still totally free to use. You just have to create an I will say though, there have been rumors about this software and putting so you can't use it for free. So all I'm trying to say is if definitely use it for So what ChatGPT does is and you can write a message. It's basically like you are except it's basically an artificial intelligence So whatever you ask it, it's and give it back to you written with artificial intelligence. Now, what I use this for in is asking it to brainstorm ideas for me or slogans that I can So now that we have the idea now let's go over here, &quot;Write me 10 funny women's You don't have to put funny in here, you could put in something I just find for print on demand, a lot of people are purchasing So having funny designs is only going to help you. So then you just hit enter or you hit go, and it's literally going to start writing these ideas for you. Now, just like that, we that we can use for print on demand, and some of these are great. So, &quot;Camp hair, don't care,&quot; that I imagine would make a great shirt. &quot;Hiking is just walking My favorite camping accessory? S'more wine, please.&quot; these are great ideas for And literally, you can change and they'll just create you a longer list. You can even do regenerate, and it will rewrite the list for you. And it's just going to or slightly different results. It'll ask you, was this better or worse? This is artificial intelligence saying, &quot;How can I make you happy? Did I do better this time? Do you want it to be slightly different?&quot; And then you can go back that it's written for you. And you can even prompt So, &quot;Make these shorter,&quot; if you want them to be shorter phrases instead of longer ones. And it's just going to As I'm looking through these, there's literally so many good designs that you can create here that are just hilarious T-shirt designs. So this is my new and improved process for finding these T-shirt design ideas. The first part being so important The second part is using AI instead of Etsy. However, there's one big and that's that it's not of these are copyright Remember in the beginning, we briefly talked about or company names, logos, or phrases. those are the most common for print on demand. However, things like also be protected by people or companies. So the next part of this process is definitely the most that you have to do for print on demand, is making sure that all of these, or the ones that you want to use at least, are not protected by other people. If you just use these the way they are and you go create your design and upload them to print the people that own these or trademark infringement. And if your account on that website gets too many of these flags, your So just spend a minute here, make sure that you are protected, free, and clear before you use these, and I'll show you how to do that. So the way to do this is you take the ones that you want to use from here, and just exclude the quotation mark. So I'm just going to take this first one, command C, or you can right And then go back over to Merch Informer. And they actually have another tool that we can use for this. You go to trademarks, and And this is literally a tool or we can right click paste, and you can start putting and search them all to see So I'm going to hit enter, And let's go grab another one of these. &quot;Camping hair, don't care,&quot; Copy, paste. Let's go grab another one. &quot;Life's more fun when you're camping.&quot; That again, these are hilarious. Copy that, we'll put that in here. Lemme just grab a couple more. Okay, so that should do it. We've got seven of them pasted in here. And literally all we do now is hit save, and it's going to drop all of And now all we do is hit check trademarks. Now, if your page doesn't already show that they are checked down and then it will show Sometimes that happens. But now we can look at and instantly know if they are safe to use for print on demand T-shirts or not. So all of these actually and they are not but if you got any red Xs, do not use those to upload on because your designs are for copyright infringement, and we do not want that for our business. So as this turned out, all the they are all free to use. This just saves you a ton of time, and you know going into this, you have the peace of mind So once you've gotten to this stage, there's literally just the You are very far along here. So first off, congratulations Now, we have our design ideas, and now I'm going to show you how to turn these into full fledged print without having graphic design experience. So when it comes to the for print on demand, they are arguably the Even if you find some really in niches that people if you have bad designs, people are simply not going to buy them. When I started out in print on demand, I still was not a graphic designer and I was creating things by hand. This took a lot of time and A lot of them were just Over the years, I have learned out there that have print That you can go in, you can change things, use download that to your computer, and you can upload those to This will make your life so It makes the design and it gives you professional templates so you're not starting from scratch. So with that said, let that I personally use for this. This is the design tool and I have used many of them It's called Placeit.net. Again, I'll put a link to This is another one that is a paid tool, but trust me, it is so worth it. Between Merch Informer and Placeit, these are the only paid for this entire business model. Now, as far as pricing goes for this one, pricing is about 9.99 per month. So it's the same as Merch Informer. Again, I've been using them forever, so I have a coupon code from them as well. I'll put that down in the description. The reason I use Placeit is because everything on their website, from the fonts, to the is copyright free. As we were just talking about, the phrases cannot be but there's also such thing as the fonts or the graphics being owned Some of these other design in the past are not 100% copyright free. So you might create a design, you upload it to a and it gets flagged and and you don't know why. It could be because the font that you used is owned by someone else. This is just a nuance to and that's why I use Placeit, is because you don't everything on here is copyright free. The reason I think it is worth that is because I understand a new business, you're not you're trying to make money yourself. So I just wanted to make and properly justified and why I recommend them into this business. So with all that being said, and I'll show you how Okay, so once you're logged into Placeit, you have a bunch of different things that you can create here. Specifically what we're and then we're going to apparel and print, we're going to go to T-shirt designs. Now, this is going to show you all of their that you can use and customize. If you scroll all the you can see there are over 800 you can choose from. And each one of these has to have at least 20 designs on them. So there are a ton of designs. Now, all of these can be customized, and you can even sort on most popular, bestselling. However, from experience here, what I would recommend for you to do is to just go straight up top and type in what your niche is. So I'm going to type in &quot;camping,&quot; and then this is going to bring on the niche of camping. Although we are not you can actually upload which is pretty awesome. But what we wanna do is scroll down over here until Now, these specifically, since we've just done and sort it by T-shirt designs, these are all going to be to camping that we can use that we know are all copyright free. So once you scroll through of all of these different and they can all be customized. The idea is that all of that we want to use, you wanna put each one of That way you have a Now, kind of a rule of thumb here is, whenever I'm going into one within a niche, like the I'm trying to create 20 upload them into that kind of gap, and then move on to the next one, Whether that was beer camping or whatever one I wanted to go into next. The reason for this is because in and searches for that, basically any design that whatever listing is likely because it's low competition and I put 20 to 40 good designs in it. That's how all of this really works, and that's a rinse and repeat process. So let's get started I'm just going to come back and I'm going to use I'm just going to copy that, and then I'm going to go back over here. And I'm going to pick I'm a sucker for these circle designs, I just really like them, they And then once you click on it, you're basically now in And basically all we need to know here is that this text corresponds to the text box over here. So whatever you change here is going to change this text box. You can move things around, you can make them bigger and smaller, and then you just hit the back button if you wanna undo something you did, or if you wanna put it back you just hit the reset button right here. So I'm just going to come over here, and I'm going to select this, and I'm going to delete And that actually didn't paste very well, so I'm just going to Camping hair, don't care. And literally as you type this in, it's going to reformat it into this design so all of the heavy Now, what's also cool about these designs is they're already in the camping niche. So the graphic that's in the middle is already about camping. Now, if you wanted to change all you do is the graphic is actually editable on the left side. So you hit edit, and you can So if we typed in camping, and it will sub that You just click on it and And all of these graphics that come up, these are all copyright free, they're all commercially usable as well, so you don't have to and then somebody flagging So literally just in a couple clicks, I've made this custom design. If you wanted to, you could literally leave and you can use this design right here. As long as you are changing and downloading it, it's And then another important if you do want to change the font itself, not the text, but the actual font, whether that's the color of the font or what the actual font you just go to the you hit the dropdown, and you can literally just go all of them are going You can even hit more fonts. And then all of these fonts you can use totally copyright free, you don't have to worry And then the same goes for the color. You literally can just click here, and you can change the Okay, so now that you've there is one extremely important thing, and Placeit makes it very easy. This background, this blue So when you're creating a you only want the design itself, you don't want this blue rectangle to be printed on that shirt as well. So not all tools will have this feature, but Placeit does have it. But what that is, is once the very last thing you do is and then you go all the it's kind of hidden here this is the transparent background. Once you click that, the And although you can't we know it's there because this is the very last thing we're doing. So now once we upload this only this design will be And in the next step, you'll So this design is literally ready to go. All you have to do now Give this just one second to load here. It's going to process your design and then you can download But once it is ready, it will Just click that. And it's going to ask you what So what I would name it is So I should still have it copied. Lemme just paste it right That's what I'm going to name this design, and I can save it right to my downloads. So this is our design right And as you can see when you zoom in here, the quality of this design So when it gets printed on a shirt, you're going to have no or having blurry images or anything. When it saves it off of Placeit, which you'll see in the And the resolution is So once you've gotten to this stage, you're literally almost done already. All that's left is really the logistics. This is just uploading to putting your title, your and you're really done. So again, congratulations in this video, you are literally So without further ado, let So this is the part of that I really enjoy, and this is something I'm When you create the designs like this and you have them saved you can upload them to multiple where they can all get traffic and they can all get So with that said, in a second we'll switch and I'll show you exactly how But first, it's very important to upload to. There are tons of different out there, but not all of them I've been selling on for many years now, and only a couple of them have Now, the reason that this is important is you don't wanna be to websites that are just Rather, I would focus on the ones that are really the big hitters here. And what those are currently are just three specific websites. So I'll put these up on the screen here so you can screenshot this or jot this down just so you But the first website The second website is and the third website is Now, these three websites All you have to do is create and literally they get tons of traffic. Just to give you some reference here, Teepublic gets about a million people to their website automatically, organically every single month. Those are just people coming RedBubble gets almost 10 and then Amazon gets almost So just by being on all you're not going to have All you're going to have to do and then sit back and So with that said, let's get this is Teepublic. When you come to Teepublic, it's basically just a marketplace. So if you were to type you will see all of the different designs that are available. And when you click on this, it will show you what it looks like. Just like we saw on Amazon, this is basically just but specifically for print on demand. So for us, let's go to the homepage, and we're literally just going And then once you get to this page, literally all you have and then you're going to So I'll fill this out with you just so we can go along step by step. And then you'll have this that says, &quot;Yes, I'd like in offsite marketing.&quot; I highly recommend just leaving that on. It's not going to cost you anything extra, it's totally free, but it allows Teepublic on your listings to try Remember, you're splitting so you get your profit, So if your design is selling well, they're going to want to advertise more of it and just make more money. So by leaving this turned on, you're just opening to get more sales from Now, if you leave this on and you decide later on for some reason that you want to turn this off, you're still able to turn it off later. I don't know why you would, that you know that that is an option. So once this is all set, And then quickly just go and verify your email. And then once you've done that, just go back to account and go to log in. And now we're just going to log in with our email and password. So just like that, you have a That's literally how easy this is. You don't have to pay, you don't have to have a business set up, you just need an email And then you can literally and it allows you to do one of two things, you can just upload a single or if you were on Placeit and you went through that we picked out and you created all seven of those designs, you can upload them all at once just to make the process faster. I only have one that we've made here, so I'll hit single file upload. And then your first time around, it's going to ask you to Now, importantly to know creating a storefront was important because people would find Now, on these print on demand websites, especially the three in this tutorial, the storefront is not very important. Rather your designs are just going to show up individually So people are going to or from the advertising that these companies are doing for you. So people are rarely ever going So you can name this it does not need to be that you are creating, because this is just the first As you create more designs you can keep uploading them again because it can be treated So I'm just going to call this Store name is available, perfect. Now, take me to the uploader. So now we've got their upload page, this is literally where we As I was mentioning before, when you create your design on Placeit, you save it to your computer, it's already saved as a PNG so we don't need to do anything extra. Just click on this little icon, and we'll go select that and we'll upload it here. Alright, just give this And here is our design right here. So remember how we had the that's why we can't really but we know from creating it But as you scroll down here, it allows us to put in our and it allows us to choose what products this is going to be And I'll walk you through Now, something that's important to note here that you might be wondering, just to try to answer this, it says, &quot;Your image isn't large enough And basically what that that we created off of so it can't be printed on a big wall art. We are just focusing so it's just going to print not the size of entire So you can disregard we are not focused on wall art anyways. So as we scroll down here, the first thing we have is our title. Now, over the years of I have tested many and what I have found in regards to saving you the most times that you can get a lot of and the most effective in you show up in these is a very simple formula that I use here. The first thing that I put in the titles is the actual phrase that is on the shirt. So this is going to be And then the second part of what is that low competition gap or that keyword that we want to show up when people are searching? So for us, that is camping women. Now, something to know from is that you do not need to or whatever the clothing item is at the end of the title here. Because when you go to whatever style of apparel is selected, they are going to auto-populate So if someone has a T-shirt selected, it will add T-shirt at the end here. So when you go over to just be sure that you are at the end, but T public, So that is how you do the titles. And then to do the description, We will copy it. Come down here and paste this. And then a couple modifications. So just say this with a capital T, &quot;This camping hair, don't care.&quot; And then put &quot;T-shirt is perfect for.&quot; And then leave what you had I'm just going to put a period there. This is going to give us the what is on the shirt and who it is for, and turning that quickly So that's literally it. That's all you have to do for all of these shirts that you make. So now a couple other logistics things, we are going to put in our main tag and then our supporting tags, which are basically what else The first thing, I would just put in your So although this is in of women's camping shirts, And the reason I wanna do that is because to know that this is a camping shirt, I don't wanna miss out So let's just select that And once you click in on here, it's going to open up all that it thinks your shirt So I'm going to hit nature, adventure, travel, camp, All of these are absolutely so I'm going to select all of them. What's nice about you all of these ideas that Teepublic I think has the of the three websites, that's Because all of these other to carry over to Merch You're doing the same process, just following their So that is it, we literally the description, and the tags. Now, just a quick question, &quot;Does this have any mature content?&quot; Hit no here, it is going to be safe to list on their marketplace I personally don't recommend creating anything that is really edgy, or something that has profanity, or something that's vulgar. I think that's just going to open you up to potential problems. So I would just stay and just create designs kind of like this. And then as you move along here, this is going to be what the in your listing. So another important thing here is that we This is white text and so we can't see that when So I'm going to just change Now, all of a sudden you can So as a rule of thumb, if you you don't want that to be and the same thing for dark Now, what I've changed over So when someone opens up the listing, what's the first color that they're going to see the design on? However, once someone's in your listing, remember in the beginning I showed you all of the different colors you could pick from? Well, that's all down here. So I could select all colors, and then it would be But as we just talked I don't want that on light shirts, so I'm just going to hit dark colors, and it's automatically going to take out all of the light designs that it may not look good on and just have the dark ones available. So all of these will look Now, this is, again, a really but when you're on the other websites, you'll just have to manually pick out what are those dark colors So now that we've got the colors figured out as to what it's a couple quick things here. So these are all different apparel items that people could possibly We've got a T-shirt, we've got a hoodie, we've got a tank top, crew neck, all the different types of shirts that people could buy this on. Now, as you are looking through here, just make sure that your and nothing is cut off. So I can tell just by looking at this, this is slightly cut off on the right. This doesn't happen every time, but I'm actually glad that it did so I can show you how to fix this. So all you have to do is come into scale and just make it a tiny bit And now your design is back, totally fits. And then just go through the others, make sure that you have no issues here. And yeah, we're perfect So if that ever happens, it and you're going to be all set. Now, the other thing, while we are on this section right here, is that we've selected that default color, which is the first one that However, if that default in every item that's this baseball tee is only not fully black. So just select the one that So all of these are We've already selected the dark colors, and now we're coming before we can actually So this section here is, what other products do for purchase beyond just apparel? There are stickers, phone And this is something that I've and it is absolutely held true. By far the most sales are going Things like stickers, and they are not going to sell And the reason that I wanna tell you that is because if you the design is not always As you could see, we had to and the other apparel items. Well, on all of these you typically have to do to get it to fit and look perfect on here. So you're going to be spending what fits good, what's and ultimately you're not going So what I recommend to you, is I literally come in here I just wanna focus on the T-shirts, and I just wanna focus on the apparel, and I don't wanna be spending and formatting all of these to make up the majority of the sales. So I recommend doing exactly setting it up this way, and and should save you a lot of time. So once you've gotten to &quot;I have read and agree to and then you hit publish. And literally just like that, if you've made it this and you followed along, you are officially a You have a live listing on Teepublic, everything is exactly As you can see what I was saying before, it auto-populated T-shirt at the end here, we have our description here. This is the only place, what the only place someone could click and find your storefront. So if they clicked here, it would show all of your But it's such a small area, that's why I don't pay All of the dark colors are all available here. And then people can or the different type of apparel that they want to purchase it on. Again, they can pick their They can literally add it and Teepublic is going to do the printing, the shipping, the customer service, we just get a split of the profit. Now, something else that's important to know here and you may be wondering, is that Teepublic sets It's something that's They run their own promotions, so they run sales on So you don't actually set When it comes to Merch you get to pick how much you and essentially you get to pick how big your profit margin is. Generally, I would say for a T-shirt is somewhere And that's the amount that comes to you every time you make a sale. Now, what's cool is that when which is a more expensive item, your profit margin might go And then the last really important thing to know here while we and payments, and all that, is that the way you get as a print on demand seller or direct deposit. Merch by Amazon uses direct deposit, or you can have them mail The other websites, they just use PayPal. Now, all of these websites are literally just going to so you don't have to do anything. Like I said, your paychecks whether you have internet It's pretty awesome. But with that being said, what we just did here is just for the other websites. So I would take this design and I would take this title, and I would go upload that to RedBubble, and then I would go upload That would be our first design, we have three listings from it. And then I would go back and and see how many of these I to those big print on demand websites. So guys, no matter where you can start print on demand. You do not need to live or region to do this business model. And hopefully this tutorial in showing you how to do Again, the links to these specific tools and the coupon codes are And all I ask is, if please give it a thumbs up and let me know down in the comments. Alright guys, that is it for this one. I will see you all in the next video.