Hey everyone, it's Andy with this week's Tips I've got a great one for everybody but especially and job interviewing. I've got three keys to getting that senior If you are a junior or mid-level resource, you'll get hired. If you are an executive or a senior manager won't get hired unless you do these three Let's talk a little bit about it. Think about what's happening when you're job You go in there, you're exchanging information. You've got to have the right responses to You've got to have good questions that you're You've got to have the right background. You need to impress. When you're at the junior and mid-levels, at the senior levels it simply is not. There are three things you absolutely must Number one, you need to get the interviewers, thinking into the future. If you can't get them to imagine what their be like with you there, you'll never get hired. You can have a great background. You could have been there, done that. That's great, but if you can't shift their opposed to you're going to catapult them forward One of the easiest ways to do that is to shift credentials, which you will review undoubtedly, What are their goals? What are their ambitions? Where do they see the company going? What exactly do they want to accomplish? Then you need to articulate how exactly you and walk them through what the future could then I would do this, and then I would do You need to make sure that in your responses when you get a chance to ask questions, that and then make sure you articulate specifically That's number one. Number two, leaders are inclusive and they're You are the high tide that has to lift all Right? Leaders build more leaders, they don't build them that you're great at inspiring, you're They're probably going to ask you questions and that's great, but I'm talking about giving there is going to inspire everybody and that a great person to work with. One of the best ways to do that is ... Now, A lot of these very senior-level interviewing front because you don't want to waste anybody's other. Then you have a middle part to it that has You're probably interviewing with colleagues, of your staff, and so on. At the end, you revisit or visit for the first Along the way, you're going to be able to to be able to talk to a lot of people. One of the best ways at the end to show that of references to the other people and the For example, &quot;Hey, Mary Jane said, when I this. It really struck me. I love that idea. Hey, Mr. Executive Man, I'd love to get your else, something greater, something more grand, If you can include a number of references good conversations you've had with them, what interviewer's mind that you are an inclusive They can start to see you as part of the team almost like you're already there. That's another way, this is also a great way making references to other people that you've your thoughts on them, and getting additional company. That's number two, make sure your inclusive Number three, you're going to get a chance process. In some cases you might be asking them along you're going to be asking them at the end, do in addition to asking great questions is questions, however awesome they are, that lead to a dead-end answer you're a dead end. I'm talking about you ask a great question, on to the next question. That's the big mistake. The message that you're sending to them is You are not somebody who's digging deep to You're not well-researched, you're not digging need to make a good decision, and now they're and you're working with the people in your deep enough. If you have follow-up questions and you start that sends the message that you are well-researched, that you're getting all the information that It also sends them the message that when you're that you're getting all the information to That is something that they want so that when or run your division or whatever it might to be a great researcher, you're going to make well-educated decisions because you're surface and oftentimes make great mistakes all the information. There you have it, three biggies. Number one, you got to get them to thinking them to feel you're inclusive, and number questions to show that you're well-researched you need to make executive-level decisions. Those are three great points. If you want more insight on how to do all for you. One is an e-book. It's called Ace Your Job Interview. I give it away free. It's mastering the best responses to the 14 There's also 43 variations of those questions to anticipate the types of questions that will be great. I also have a fantastic webinar. It's a solid hour of teaching. It's also free. It's called Three Keys to Ace Any Job Interview. The participants, the attendees get a couple the Employer, 75 great questions to ask before questions to choose from and really help catapult them questions. I hope you take me up on those. There's links in the description. If you enjoyed this video, give me a like, You know I love your circulation and I love If you're watching this anywhere other than Life blog, hop over to the blog, I've got Until next week, have a great one.