(calm music) - [Narrator] Singer. Activist. Icon. Sinead O'Connor is one singers of the '80s, well-loved for her authenticity and extraordinary connection known for her iconic shaved head, Sinead O'Connor started her music career when she was discovered by - When I was younger, I had a different platform I had stuff to get off my chest, like whatever, you know? I suppose once I got like I was able to become the songwriter I would've been otherwise, you know? (crowd cheering) - [Narrator] By creating emotional and soulful performances, she amazed audiences worldwide. Throughout her career, her wonderful voice dealing with heartbreak, trauma, sex and politics, but behind her iconic appearance, there was a vulnerable soul, scarred by her life's trials. - No, I mean the job of a singer and a songwriter is to and that's what music does, is it says the things that that people can't otherwise express, so it'd be kind of ludicrous (calm music) - [Narrator] Although her life was often surrounded by controversy, Sinead remains one of the most remarkable voices of the '80s, her song 'Nothing Compares 2U' is one of the most stunning Her battles with mental health and personal struggles became After her sudden passing in July of 2023, the echo of her voice will forever linger in the hearts of those (calm music) It's been seven hours And 15 days Since you took your love away I go out every night And sleep all day Since you took your love away (calm music) Sinead was born in Dublin Ireland on the 8th of December 1966, she discussed her difficult childhood publicly multiple times, her parents got divorced early on, and her mother was frequently and her siblings for years on end. After Sinead was caught her mother took the drastic decision to send her to reform school, where she spent 18 months. During her time there, she focused on her and music, but she was also terrified Sinead said that she had and agony. When she turned 18, her mother died in a car crash. (calm music) Sinead often opened up and her emotions in relation to it. - Without even thinking, what do you love about your mother? - The first thing that came to my mind actually is that she's dead, which is a very strange but I love about my it was very kind of her, although I miss her horribly, I really ache for her, and my suicidal thing comes from, is that I want my mother. But I cannot wait until the day that I naturally get to heaven, so that I can see my mother again. (calm music) - [Narrator] Her music career began when she was discovered by the drummer of the popular Irish band 'In Tua Nua' and co-wrote their hit Lonely man Tired man Play the blues Sing while you have nothing to lose Silver moon Weeping man Cry for me Show me your soul sympathy - [Narrator] Before finishing school, O'Connor ran away to Dublin, where she sang and played guitar on the street, and in pubs, and worked for a singing telegram service. - I think it's okay for women Sometimes people criticize but they shouldn't sit and ask you questions, you know? I suppose, you know? But what I meant about when I was younger, was I grew up in an extraordinarily abusive situation in the '70s Ireland, and that there was no so what I meant about having writing from the previous platform, was really I was trying a lot of grief, you know? When it comes to spiritual stuff, you should never ask an Irish person to talk about religion though, unless you're gonna be but when it comes to spiritual matters, I'm a person who really with the Holy Spirit, that is really important to me, and that I consider is in the same way as Lee Perry believes that music is the Holy Spirit, I'm the same, you know? So, the only thing I've ever has been child abuse actually, and or respect the Catholic Church, respecting the Holy Spirit, so I'm not inclined to kind of rant on about anything else if you like, other than through music, you know? (calm music) - [Narrator] O'Connor of the two owner/managers of a small London record label while playing with the Dublin Her time as a singer for 'Ton Ton Macoute' brought her into the spotlight and she was eventually (calm music) She also teamed up with and soon after she was signed, she embarked on her first major project, working on the vocals which she co-wrote with for the soundtrack of the film 'Captive'. (calm music) 'The Lion &amp; The Cobra', Sinead's debut album was the result was one of the most acclaimed debut records of 1987, with a pair of alternative radio hits in the singles 'Mandinka' and 'Troy'. And you should've left the light on You should've left the light on Then I wouldn't have tried You'd never have known (upbeat music) - [Narrator] Almost from the O'Connor was a controversial media figure, in interviews following the LP's release, she defended the actions of the IRA, resulting in widespread and even burnt bridges by attacking longtime supporters of U2, nonetheless, she remained a cold figure, prior to the release 'I Do Not Want What I Haven't Got' a harrowing masterpiece from drummer John Reynolds, the complexity of O'Connor's who also acknowledged non-commercial nature, they also praised her passionate and strong voice. (calm music) The album eventually sold and was certified platinum, despite not having any (calm music) The album rocketed to the and earned O'Connor four including 'Best Album', 'Best Song', 'Best Female Vocalist', and 'Best Alternative Album'. Thanks to the phenomenal 'Nothing Compares 2 U', which was originally a and first recorded by a In 1991, O'Connor was by 'Rolling Stone'. I can eat my dinner But nothing I said nothing can 'Cause nothing compares Nothing compares to you - [Interviewer] When you look back, as you say it's been nearly 20 years. - Yeah. - [Interviewer] So, when you what can you pick out that's not highlights? - Jeez, probably far But obviously the 'Nothing Compares 2 U' thing was a big one, you know? &quot;The Nothing Compares 2 U thing.&quot; It's huge! - Yeah. - [Interviewer] But, is dare I say regret, or do you just see it as you know, &quot;What happens, happens, you can't change the past&quot;- - No I don't, I don't regret anything about it, no. It was great, like I had a great trip, you know? - [Narrator] The music video won the MTV award for 'Video of the Year'. She performed a cover of to the Red Hot Organization's tribute, AIDS fundraiser album - [Interviewer] I think it seems like it's a very personal album to you in particular. I mean, talk me through that, it seems like a very emotional... From you know, stories that are very, very close to you, about your own circumstances, what's happened to you in your life, all that's true? - Yeah, it was a very which I suppose all records all songs are pretty personal really when you think about it. - [Interviewer] Yeah, if you had to pick a track on the album if you could, what would it be? - Hmm, give me a look at the... I have to try and remember what songs are on there. I know, it's been a long time. - [Interviewer] There you go. - Let me see. Probably 'Nothing Compares'. - [Interviewer] Really? - Yeah, I mean I like a lot but if I had to... If you said 'pick one', I'd pick that, yeah. - [Interviewer] Yeah, oh okay. But why... You know, that was the track that feels to you, consider it was written by someone else. - Yeah, it's just that... I just feel the song very I identify with it, which I'm sure a lot of the people do, do you know what I mean? (calm music) - It's an intriguing point, isn't it? With an artist like you and still developing that you have a track like 'Nothing Compares 2 U', which is an iconic track, an anthemic track very much for you. When you listen to it, do you still think, &quot;That means something very special to me.&quot; Or, &quot;That was of another time.&quot; Because it is the first track, not the only one, but it's the first one that - Yeah, no I love the track, I have the same emotional every time I sing it, I don't really listen to it as such, 'cause you don't really after they've come out, you know what I mean? Otherwise you've got worries. (Hosts laughing) - I think Chris de Burgh still in fact, I know it for a fact, 'cause he told us the other day. - Well, it's a bit 'Miss To be sitting there so I don't really listen to it, but I have to sing it obviously a lot, and I love singing it, I always have the same kinda (calm music) - [Narrator] 'Red Hot + Blue' of 'Am I Not Your Girl?' The album was unfortunately Frank Sinatra vowed to, &quot;Kick her in the ass.&quot; After she said she would not perform if the United States National Anthem was performed before one she withdrew her name from consideration after getting four 'Grammy she did not attend the awards event, despite winning the 'Brit Award' for 'International Female Solo Artist'. She also shared vocals on and gave background vocals from Peter Gabriel's (calm music) In May 1993, Gabriel extended an invitation in his ongoing 'Secret World' tour, where she would perform a variety of songs on a lavish stage. (calm music) O'Connor traveled and gave guest performances. (calm music) In September of 2003, the double album 'She it included rare and unreleased studio tracks, as well as live material In 2005, she had numerous sometimes featuring on their records. (calm music) Later that year, 'Throw Down Your Arms' was released, which embodied a collection by artists like 'Burning Spear', 'Peter Tosh' and 'Bob Marley'. This compilation managed on 'Billboard's Top Reggae Albums' chart. She then returned to the to work on her first since the release of 'Faith &amp; Courage'. - How old are your kids now? - My eldest is 22, my next is 13, and my next is 5, and my next is 2. So, yeah. - [Interviewer] So you've got busy? - Yeah, very. Yeah, yeah. - [Interviewer] And well the eldest, mom back out on stage again? - Oh, they don't mind. They don't mind, as long to any of the gigs or anything, they don't like coming to gigs, that freaks them out, so yeah. 'Cause they're so used to me They get freaked out when they see this other thing that you are, you know? So, I kinda keep them out of it. - [Interviewer] And yet, - Yeah, all of them, yeah. Very much so, yeah. - [Interviewer] Is that something - No, I don't push them into it at all, I've never pushed them into it, in fact, I'd probably discourage them, do you know what I mean? (calm music) - [Narrator] Aside from the 'Gospel Oak', O'Connor's recording career eclipsed by the turmoil In 1995, an extended custody and her ex-lover, Irish journalist John Waters, over their newborn daughter Roisin, deeply hurt by Waters' bitter accusations that she was not fit to be a mother, O'Connor attempted suicide in March 1999. (somber music) While recovering, O'Connor live with Waters in Dublin. (somber music) A few days later however, she took away her and flew back to London. (somber music) - I wanted to... I want to ask you the because it's something we're talking about music, and the work as it were, over that period of time, but your image changed very fundamentally at one point in your life, the short hair, which you still have and so on, and so forth. - Right. - Was that just something that you felt was a better way of expressing or was there pressure on you? Why? It's a pretty radical but it stuck. - I guess I was always like girls do I suppose, and it was getting shorter, and shorter, this was around the time I was kinda 19, I had, not a Mohawk, but it was all shaved there, and it was kind of a little bit there, and in the end, my manager said, &quot;I think Kind of thing, but also, it like coincided trying to get me to and wear short skirts, and stuff like that, so they just... The two happened at the same time, and I thought, &quot;Sure, I'll get rid of it.&quot; 'Cause I suppose... You know I like, I think that it looks better on me, I don't really suit even my kids, recently in fact, I got extensions, and everything, and my kids went mad, and said, &quot;No way!&quot; Like they much prefer the short, you know? So, I just feel like me with it short. - And we know from our own experience, they are your most honest (calm music) - [Narrator] Sinead son 'Jake' with her first son 'Shane' with Irish and son 'Yeshua' with Frank Bonadio. (calm music) In 2010, Sinead got married once again, this time to her friend, and collaborator Steve Cooney, but their relationship didn't last, they broke up the following spring. Sinead then married a fourth time, she and Barry Herridge in December of 2011, but 18 days after she announced (calm music) (dreary music) O'Connor was becoming famous for her controversial public outbursts, even more publicly surrounded, a 1992 performance by O'Connor during which she tore up a denouncing the Catholic We find it necessary We know we will win We have confidence in the victory Of good over evil (paper ripping) - Fight the real enemy. The priest isn't the ones it's the so-called 'sane the cover-ups of the cover-up, and they're still of the cover-ups. One person you cannot cover-up in front of is the Holy Spirit, these people acted like in the living presence of the Holy Spirit, they lied and cover it up, the rapes of children, they either don't believe or they don't respect it, they therefore anybody who doesn't have the right to say that they represent The Holy Spirit and run any church, or to say that they represent Christ. So, it's a matter about great importance that we have a church that's run by people who actually respect - [Narrator] Despite her contempt for the clerical hierarchy, and to bring attention towards within the institution, O'Connor maintained she was a Catholic, and devoutly spiritual. &quot;It's not the man obviously, it's the office, and the symbol of the I consider them to be of entire races of people, and a subsequent existence of domestic, and child abuse in every The singer stated in a 1992 (calm music) The 'Anti-Defamation so did Madonna, and Phil Hartman. Conservative groups and when actor Joe Pesci hosted he threatened to smack her. Two weeks later, O'Connor was booed at a signaling the end of and the start of another. - Well, here's where I'm coming from, I'm not wishing any badness to the man, I don't know anything about him, as far as I'm aware, he's had nothing to do with any so you know, I don't have but I have a bone to pick with... Here's the thing, when he changes what I'm then I will believe that they're serious about reforming their On their website there's a list, and by the way, there are 10 ex-communicable the two equal number one's, number one has two, in this order are 'female ordination' and 'pedophilia', okay? Now, the construction of and at very least, they should swap them around, in other words, it's showing you what they're comparing the rape of children to something as petty as a woman going and getting ordained. So, they should either remove you know, altogether the reference or personally as a female priest, I'd be happy, I'd be happy to just reverse the order, it looks really bad, and I don't know if it's that but to be fair, I'll give him the benefit of the doubt, but to have that as your and age after all the reports, and even the pedophilia not come first. it looks like they still and that's worrying to me. I will believe that the day that, that sentence is switched around, and it says that, &quot;The most grievous crime a Catholic can commit is 'pedophilia', and then 'female ordination'.&quot; That's fine, I don't agree with that, but to have it as your number one that 'female ordination' and then 'pedophilia' to compare the two, it's like a clever... And the church are great and messing with your head, 'cause the women get all up-in-arms, and go, &quot;Why can't we be ordained?&quot; But actually no, that sentence is about what we So, I don't believe a word of any reform, or anything else until - [Narrator] Almost becoming Sinead reported her retirement although later it was claimed had the purpose of studying opera. (calm piano music) She was away from the public taking part in a theatrical and later on, touring with Peter Gabriel. (calm piano music) Although by the mid-90s she she never stopped making music, Sinead kept writing her own songs, but in addition, she restyled Irish Folk Music, Reggae and Religious Music. She brought her unique by other artists, artists collaborations, and film-centrics. (calm piano music) Over the years, tabloid culture was obsessed and personal moves, and choices. (calm piano music) These often involving and sexuality, personal trauma and sometimes, public controversial takes. (calm piano music) - I don't really actually not that I'm not either, and I don't know that I have any problem with feminism or whatever, I just have a problem with 'ism's &amp; it's'- - [Interviewer 2] Labels. - Yeah, of any kinda. So, no it's not a feminist album at all, and if anything you know, hardcore feminists might 'cause it's a romantic album, it's all love songs and it's all you know, there are four female apart from myself obviously, and they're all very romantically-engaged, they're all love songs and you know, one of them is quite obsessed that she singing to the whole time, so it's not really terribly feminist at the end of the day. But I liked the campaign in the music industry as you may know, male and female artists, we really get treated like who're working for us, that's the way it runs, and that can be exaggerated and I often had over the years, issues around being you know, heard really as a boss, you know? Like you'd ring up your and they'll tell you, &quot;You don't need them.&quot; Stuff like that, you know? Just stupid stuff like that. So, I was inspired by the campaign, as a boss I was able to take as a boss that I would've 'cause you always don't wanna and all that kinda stuff, you know? (calm music) I will meet you later I'll talk but you won't listen to me I know what your answer will be (calm piano music) - [Narrator] In 2014, Sinead 'I'm Not Bossy, I'm The Boss.' She appeared on the cover wearing a wig, and figure-hugging black dress, while caressing a guitar. - It's cathartic in so a method-singer/songwriter, that's what we do, or that's what I do, and you're in a different and it's cathartic from one... It isn't in one sense, 'cause it's not your experience it's not anything you it is from the point of and perhaps you can go than you would otherwise, a bit like being a But I wouldn't necessarily... I'd say it's more fun than anything else, but what I like about it where albums had really, it wasn't about singles, it was a journey, and the character was whether the character was like in the case of Bob Dylan, 'Blood On The Tracks' or whether it was characters So, I quite like the idea now, than almost trying to but with music, you know what I mean? And he can plot ahead, and use characters to that isn't yours as such, you know? (cheerful piano music) - [Narrator] But at the her mental health was still precarious. In November of the following year, while recovering from surgery, she posted a message on platforms, announcing that she was in an Irish hotel, and that she was contemplating suicide. Fortunately, she was found well, and received the treatment she required. - What I did observe was that the coverage, and I've noticed it there was a guy, was it Jack Speed... I can't remember if that's his name, and forgive me if it's not, but there was a football who I believe had tried to take and I don't know if he And I hope this isn't an but the coverage, the media coverage of that, and also I thought was interesting to me because and coverage of well-known females who have had a mental illness, or suffered from depression, is notoriously abusive, and I was hoping... I hoped that one of the things is how the coverage of for example, female celebrities like Britney Spears, Amanda Bynes, other you know, they get lynched in they get mocked, and buffooned. And when males are in the public eye are dealing with the same thing, then the coverage is as it should be, you know? - Is it when you look at she's probably a prime example of that. - Precisely, you know? - She's now a laughingstock. - Exactly, you know what I mean? And I've gone through that And it's really appalling so you know, that's one of the observations I've made, and I hope that perhaps that's something that can be discussed in days to come when you know, the debate can safely, without disrespecting anyone, become about how these (calm music) - [Narrator] In 2018, to convert to Islam, and changed her name to Shuhada' Sadaqat, but she kept Sinead when she was performing. (calm music) - In Islam, you don't you call it 'reversion', the idea is that you were born that if you know, any person with any logic would realize they were Muslim all along. So, that's actually what happened to me, I'd been a theologian all but I never thought that I would join any particular religion, but because I grew up in a theocracy, I was very interested in theology. So, I studied all the different religions, and I actually left Islam 'til last, 'cause I had such a about it actually, you know? (calm piano music) - [Narrator] In June of 2021, she released a memoir and she took part in a press (calm music) Unfortunately, some of the interviews she took part in left her anxious, the singer declaring that by an interview on 'BBC Radio 4' when talking about her and the media's coverage of the situation. (somber music) On 4th June 2021, O'Connor announced her from the music industry, while her final studio album, 'No Veteran Dies Alone' was O'Connor stated that she or promoting it. Posting the news on Twitter, &quot;This is to announce my and from working in the record business. I've gotten older and I'm tired, so it's time for me to having truly given my all. 'NVDA' in 2022 will be my last release, and then there'll be no A few days later, she argued against the statement, and announced it was an impulsive reaction to an insensitive interview, and she was still going ahead with her already-scheduled tour of 2022. Another shock came for when her 17 year old son 'Shane', who was under suicide-watch, escaped the institution and took his own life. After this incredibly painful loss, she posted a series of concerning tweets, hinting that she was also and announcing she had been (ethereal music) (somber music) On the 26th of July 2023, Sinead's family announced they declared their devastation, and requested privacy from the public. (somber music) - She was, in many ways the best of us, she was one of those difficult people who refused to be silent, she was a difficult woman, and by God, we need difficult women, we need difficult people to speak out, and she did so in quite (somber music) - Like in nobody else, it is astonishing what she did, it really is. I mean, like Sinead got to do with religion that I thought, &quot;Where is she going now? She was the priest one day, and a nun the next.&quot; Et cetera. But some of the things she actually did, some of the barriers she broke down, some of the sort of... No regrets in terms of it turned out to be as I say, quite pressing, it turned out to be just true, and people weren't ready (somber music) I mean, Sinead was just completely and absolutely one-of-a-kind, she was absolutely amazing, really talented. You'd mentioned 10 albums, some of them albums in the middle were slightly dodgy I thought, but the first few, and then particularly the last two, absolutely brilliant. She went back to some great and she also has an album with the Belfast musician 'David Holmes'. But also in-between times, I mean, Sinead was just her own person, she would never have anything like regret or anything like that, it was always to do with her own ambition and success, and there was a depravity there, if you read her autobiography it's quite frightening some of it, but there's redemption she doesn't need anybody (calm music) - A trailblazer and one-of-a-kind, when I was a child, and I heard 'Nothing Compares 2 U', it stuck with me. - Iconic woman in music actually, someone really to look up to and be inspired by. (somber music) - As an activist myself, and as a woman growing up in Ireland, I completely resonate with her lyrics, and her artistry about oppression, and also I'm inspired by - Quite a surreal situation, when Sinead O'Connor at an open-mic night. What happened next? - This lady arrived carrying a huge, big white guitar, and two other ladies with her, and she was coming in anyway, is she walked in she says, &quot;Where's the open-mic on?&quot; &quot;We're just doing it down in there.&quot; So, she sat into the chair I didn't recognize her, and the next thing when I heard her voice, then I knew who it was. (upbeat music) I went to the doctor And guess what he told me Guess what he told me - [Narrator 2] For has held the hands of millions, through breakups, first dances, and funerals. 'Cause nothing compares Nothing compares to you - [Narrator 2] Today, in their thousands, as they mourned one of their own, the Irish seaside town, the singer had once called 'home'. It's been so lonely without you here - [Narrator 2] It was here her family say that O'Connor spent some living on the seafront in Bray, where we meet an old friend of hers, front man of the band 'Hothouse Flowers'. - She stunned me when I this beautiful presence, like she was the center and she had grace, and courage, you know? She carried herself very gracefully, and she was fearsome, like you could feel the volcanic energy. - Just to say thanks to Sinead for blazing the trail, you know? She illuminated the past for us all from when we were young, right up until now, you know? And we're just grateful. - [Interviewer 3] What that other people didn't- - She spoke honestly, and bravely, in a time I mean, it's just a place that's symbolic of getting together, 'cause I don't think... I mean, sure this was her home, but Sinead was you know ethereal almost, I mean, she was international, but she was certainly who felt a certain level so I think it's wonderful, Bray's beautiful, and I'm just thinking of, she must've had a lovely and I hope it helped her. - [Interviewer 3] What do you think is Sinead O'Connor's legacy- - Love this song. It's this song. And so many others like but yeah it's this song, you know? Thanks. - I'm here because we were fans, massive fans of Sinead and she'll be missed, she was an Irish legend, and I'm, as an Irish Muslim, I felt that I should be here on behalf of my community to the Irish legend she was. I just think that she was and she spoke for minorities and that's very admirable, and very brave, you know? So, yeah thank you. (crackling drowns out speaker) - That it's very, very sad that she's gone today, I think also we were trying to articulate how much pain everybody's in, I don't think I've ever but I think she filled bits of generations of this nation in her heart, she was saying things and she held our pain about (crackling drowns out speaker) if you misbehaved, and she held that along with the courage that we weren't able to fully live, and so when she died yesterday, it felt like that part at least I think that's what I'm feeling. (crackling drowns out speaker) For someone I didn't know personally. But what I hope it does fucking fire underneath what's happening with mental health, and children, and the family that reports Government at the moment should and child mental healthcare and the way it is now is not right. (crackling drowns out speaker) And tell them to get their (crowd clapping) - She was just incredible, (crackling drowns out speaker) 'cause she had so much love, and that's why I'm following through, and talk to your girls, like girls need the most, like she shouldn't have for these basic rights and to like people doing bad things. (crackling drowns out speaker) - [Interviewer 3] As someone who suffered such extreme abuse just like Sinead did, what did it mean for and open? - I think 'cause it gave us all courage, it gave us all strength, she gave strength to so many women, and the only thing I feel so sad about was the way she was treated, in Ireland I think that people we should've looked after I know she used to come in, (crackling drowns out speaker) and do you know, they're supporting her but what support did she That's the sad side of it, so my hope for her is that and I hope she's in a better place, 'cause she deserves it, she made Ireland a different place, she spoke out when - [Narrator] Sinead is after her untimely death, Sinead O'Connor leaves an undoubted, fearless musical legacy, with haunting melodies and powerful lyrics, she showed her soul through her music, touching the hearts of those who listened. (somber music) She fearlessly confronted social issues, using her platforms to advocate for the causes she believed in, despite her personal struggles, she never failed to show authenticity, and inspiring commitment. Her memory lives on through her music, which will be listened to (somber music)