In 410 AD Alaric's Goths sacked Rome in history, a landmark moment symbolizing the However, this sack had been relatively mild and great buildings escaped intact. Decades later, Rome did not escape as easily. 20 years before the Western Empire finally inflicted upon Rome what was perhaps the greatest Today we will begin telling the story of the exodus from the Danube to the shores of Africa. Shoutout to the Ridge Wallet for sponsoring We have been using wallets kindly provided say that it is one of the best products we to all of our viewers. They don't fold, don't bulge in your pocket, design. Ridge Wallets are a great gift for you and Ridge holds up to 12 cards and has an attached It comes in 30 different colours and styles, burnt titanium. For us, switching from the old wallets to super fancy gaming armchairs. But don't take our word for it - ridge Each wallet comes with a lifetime warranty like it, that they'll let you try it for If you don't love it, just send it back Support our channel and get 10% off today going to ridge.com/KINGSANDGENERALS and using The Vandals who had lived in what is modern came into contact with Rome around 170 AD reign. For five years, the emperor had been waging his Marcomanni and Quadi foes. Earlier in the second century, Marcus' predecessor Kingdom of Decebalus. Acquiring its vast gold reserves was a great beyond the Danube hid great dangers. According to contemporary historian Cassius Wars, Dacia was under the governorship of Beginning in around the year 170, unrest and and the governor had to play barbarian groups One of the insignificant tribes that entered These relatively meagre people entered Roman in return for alliance. However, Clemens refused, instead taking the He then ordered the Hasdingi - who are widely another barbarian group known as the Costoboci, area of Dacia. The Hasdingi warriors attacked and defeated the land in the same way - pillaging and ravaging Clemens decided to use another barbarian group who suffered a decisive defeat. The Vandals were adequately cowed and formally In return for this alliance, they received land if they served with Rome's armies. Throughout the third century crisis, the Vandals Roman Empire, but were instead just one of to the imperial border. In the year 270, a separate group of Vandals near Aquincum, but they were outmaneuvered When put into the larger context of incursion forces, the Vandalic raid was of little consequence, The geographical position of the Vandals throughout impossible to pinpoint for certain, but the Tisza basin allows us to zone in on a broad In the archeology of these graves, we can pass. The first is a slow spread of Roman influence region. From the second century onward, Roman jewelry out alongside native Germanic forms. The second can be found in changing Vandalic acted as powerful commercial magnets, drawing sides of the border. While the trend appears to be one of Roman-induced a certain degree of continuity in Vandal social Region-specific luxury goods still appear were eaten in some native containers along It is easy to picture a traditional Vandal to use Roman techniques and forms, contrasted Diplomacy between the Romans and the Germanic a tool to assault more troublesome tribes, might be raised and even enemies of Rome who military force. Social and political development were the state which loomed over the barbarian peoples. Its culture and martial expertise would in ultimately be the empire's deadliest foes. Most prominent examples of this destabilising the Alamanni on Rome's Rhine-Danube re-entrant However, in this initial great flowering of of the Tisza basin were left behind. In their supposed home, no faction managed The Vandals themselves remained merely a couple This relative weakness was shown clearly between the Gothic king Geberich sought to increase Vandals, who were led by king Visimar. The Vandals managed to resist for a short the Tisza valley and their king was possibly They pleaded to the Romans and received territory where the Vandals lived divided under Roman Through service in the Roman military and population some Vandals converted to Arian As with most of the barbarian groups, everything began sweeping across the Eurasian steppe, 370AD and forcing all who would not submit The Alani were just one of these peoples who, the Vandal-occupied land Pannonia. As ominous warnings of Hunnic atrocities came refugees fleeing the east, the Hasdingi king to make for his people. His Pannonian lands were a battleground at from the east there came the prospect of refugee famine. Even more unnerving was the threat of the his family - which included a young teenage would have to find greener pastures if they But where to go and how to get there? The east was out of the question. One merely had to look upon the awe-inspiring empire's east was far too strong to assault. Instead they would move into the promising the nomadic menace, for the time being at Along with some friendly Alani, Hasdingi invaded This was the era of magister militum Flavius rise to power is so famous precisely because He led a Roman counterstrike into Raetia and Their ambitions culled, the Vandalic invaders Some of the defeated tribesmen were forced in depopulated areas of Italy and even more, The second attempt of the Vandals would not In early 406 Gothic king Radagaisus crossed of his warriors into Raetia. Before Stilicho could gather a meaningful assaulted Italy. Either not realising the consequences of his for the Rhine frontier troops to reinforce With these reinforcements Radagaisus was defeated, sword almost immediately. Taking advantage of the opportunity, Godigisel some of Radagaisus' defeated horde, came history and began travelling towards the Rhine's This coalition of common purpose finally walked probably between the cities of Mainz and Worms. Roman defences in the region were totally The Vandals were aided in their invasion by by usurper Constantine III who had invaded secured it. The coalition army kept as far to the north army who might take notice of them. It was hardly necessary, since the Empire However at some point in the year 407, desertion kings denuded the army and led to Godigisel's - who were probably Roman foederati. Though the Vandal king died in the encounter, a victory anyway. Godigisel was succeeded thereafter by his Gaul. A letter by Saint Jerome informs us of how Empire, telling of how 'savage tribes in Gaul.' He writes of terrible times - massacre, destruction, The letter also speaks of how southern Gaul, Narbonensis, are 'with the exception of Yet, this was not the work of the Vandals, Instead, such devastation in these regions civil war being raged there. It was this pandaemonium which would provide this time to the south. When Constantine's revolt began to collapse juked it out for the throne and a new round In the midst of such unrest, the Vandals walked unopposed. The Vandals crossed the Pyrenees into Hispania commander under Constantine III named Gerontius, and required allies. The Vandals were perfect candidates, and were safe silver-rich province. The two years which followed this crossing people of Spain in which the Vandals and their A population who were already beset by plague, direct attack from outside invaders. A fifth century Hispano-Roman chronicler called gives us an account of how this took place: and the deadly pestilence continued on its in the cities were plundered by the tyrannical The outcome of this deadly period was clear and thus with the four plagues of sword, famine, throughout the world, the annunciations foretold As the Vandal 'wild beasts' rampaged and and 411 it is worth stepping back for a moment would have been for the population. Hispania had always been a relatively isolated spots of the empire2. Even throughout the worst periods of imperial escaped mostly unscathed. But now, Rome was incapable of protecting which probably did not go unnoticed among Even so, by 411 the Vandals' plundering they were keeping an eye on events elsewhere. A new and capable magister militum called Stilicho, and he quickly made his mark by Constantine III. Not wanting to draw Rome's full ire now the peace. Instead the barbarian inhabitants of Hispania The Alani king took Carthaginensis and Lusitania Gallaecia. The Hasdingi Vandals meanwhile took the remainder Baetica in the south. After a few subsequent years of relative peace the Pyrenees, occupying the formerly imperial the balance of power completely. With this development, each barbarian faction with the new magister militum, each hoping In the end however, Constantius stuck with to bring imperial control back to the grain-rich would oppose him. In 418 and with plenty of imperial support, smashed the Alani in battle and killed their Many of the defeated Alani then fled north and increasing their power. After that, the Visigoths invaded Baetica annihilated the Silingi Vandals. It is possible that some of them fled north simply subjugated. However, the Silingi group as a whole was never seen again in our sources. Wallia's campaign was significant both for at all, namely Gallaecia. It is possible that the Romans did not see and therefore the Visigothic attack never This meant that the Hasdingi and the Suebi Moreover, the Hasdingi were actually empowered In 420, after conflict between the Vandals hispaniarum Asterius entered the peninsula a usurper called Maximus, into the now unoccupied This proved to be a mistake, as the Hasdingi in their new rich holdings. However, when another imperial army under clear up the mess, it was defeated due to This obscure battle is usually bypassed as Merrills and Richard Miles emphasize it differently. They note that it 'might be regarded as history of the Western Roman Empire'. It was both the first great Vandal victory, ramp up. In the aftermath, Castinus' defeated Roman the rising Hasdingi. With this new burst of manpower, the Vandals began to look past Baetica's fertile fields and Mauretania. Then between 427 and 429 two events took place their final leap to Carthage. In the year 428, Gunderic died and was succeeded elected king by the Vandal elite. In Africa itself, the comes Africae Boniface western magister militums Aetius and Constantius Imperial plots and schemes led to Boniface allies - the Vandals were once against perfect So, at some point in the year 429 Gaiseric and children over the straits of Gibraltar bidding of a Roman general. One again, civil strife in the empire signalled The Vandal conquest of North Africa was almost video, so make sure you are subscribed and video in the series. Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and