On April 12, 1945, 70 nautical destroyer USS Mannert L. Abele drifts, damaged shafts - the result of a recent As the crew fights to contain fires and repair descending from 20,000 feet. These heinous than conventional bombs. In their The Ohka is a pilot's coffin and a ship's rocket-powered flying bomb designed for As the Bettys approach, Abele's gunners mothership releases its lethal cargo, it no match. The tiny aircraft is moving too fast. engines, accelerating to over 600 miles per Ohka - a purpose-built human bomb - begins its All the American crew can do is watch in horror In 1943, Ensign Mitsuo Ohta of the 405th Kokutai, aided by students from the Aeronautical developed the initial design for a unique Ohta submitted his groundbreaking plans only to face rejection. At the time, Japan was However, by 1944, the tide of against Japan, as the Allies had been racking up territory and advancing closer to the mainland. dismantled Japan's military strength, crucial directive. He ordered the creation of to launch attacks on American warships While the Allies dubbed these units &quot;Kamikaze,&quot; meaning &quot;Special Attack.&quot; Motivated by the countrymen, and emperor, Tokko pilots &quot;Bushido,&quot; the warrior's code of honor. type of Japanese military aircraft, early swift machine--one that could be constructed Suddenly, the once-discarded notion of a With renewed resolve, the Imperial Japanese the Yokosuka Naval Air Technical Arsenal The Yokosuka MXY-7 Ohka, or &quot;cherry blossom,&quot; an aluminum frame to reduce weight and a rapid development period, the type underwent followed by a powered flight in November. and easy-to-produce aircraft to strike back importantly, a purpose-built human kamikaze issue plaguing the missiles of the For this, the model's simplistic wing structure control, complete with rudimentary controls. just enough for the brief and final mission. this single-seat aircraft carried powered by three Type 4 Model 1 Mark due to its very short range of about 23 miles, a tiny Ohka to the target area and then release only one could become the chosen mothership: During the beginning stages of its mission, the in the Betty's bomb bay, with the pilot traveling area. However, if the target was close to the bolted into the cockpit before takeoff. launched from altitudes of sometimes well towards its target, with a small oxygen supply As it closed in, the pilot would then ignite individually or all at once. With these powerful the missile towards the intended ship, making That's when the model's strongest feature 600 miles per hour in a power dive, this for defenders to accurately target and destroy the As the United States invasion of the Philippines new rocket bombs. But before this tiny, terrifying the MXY-7 would have to make a journey of well Achieving this would prove surprisingly difficult. On November 28, 1944, the iconic Japanese cruise with an alternate objective: to deliver on the 29, in the early hours, Commander Joseph spotted the massive ship and launched an attack. struck Shinano on her starboard side, the efforts by Shinano's inexperienced crew to save and within hours, the carrier sank to the bottom and all the Ohkas with her to a watery grave. when another 30 Cherry Blossoms were lost which fell victim to torpedoes from USS Redfish. unsuccessful on March 21, 1945, when the G4M fighters, causing the Ohkas to be released too far The new aircraft finally got a chance to six Betty Bombers launched an assault on the this raid, at least one Ohka made a significant battleship West Virginia, causing moderate Achernar, and Tyrrell also fell victim to if these were Cherry Blossoms or another vehicle. that there were no direct hits, only a near-miss. would remain quite difficult to obtain, especially fateful missions aboard their rocket-powered, Nonetheless, recognizing the imminent threat posed to extend their defensive perimeters, Ohka combinations before they could strike. defenses, the Ohka often found its mark, On April 12, 1945, at Radar Picket Station 14 Abele was performing radar picket duty when Within minutes, well over 20 aircraft of all types for over half an hour and buzzing menacingly. closed in to attack, with one damaging both of shock, nine G4M Betty bombers approached, carrying Spotted at 20,000 feet, eight were shot down But one remained. was released from 20,000 feet, gliding at first, One minute from impact, the pilot ignited the starboard quarter at around 500 miles per hour. stricken destroyer saw the approaching With no time to lose, and despite damage operators quickly opened fire with the smaller As he closed in, the Ohka pilot aimed using a tension, the Ohka struck the destroyer amidships. already beleaguered ship that tore the ship the Okha attack, Abele sank, taking seventy-nine The devastation didn't end there. Nearby, exploded an Ohka less than 50 yards from the ship forcing Jeffers to withdraw from action. was hit by a Cherry Blossom whose warhead exploded underwater nearby. Misfortune struck missing by mere feet as the rocket-propelled As the final months of the war unfolded, radar of Ohka attacks. Responsible for relaying enemy warning system, ships like USS Gayety and USS Hugh One of the last successful Ohka strikes on picket duty about 75 miles from Okinawa, Despite being at battle stations with full off guard because of the Ohka's sheer speed. gunners had no chance to intercept it, with This success also stemmed from clever Japanese drawing the ship's fire, while the fast Ohka like Shea could adjust their targets. metal all across the superstructure. which sheared right off as the jet-propelled topside. The impact gouged a hole four smashing equipment, severing cables, and Prompt action by damage control parties quickly preventing further damage and ensuring the ship's period, Shea moved on to other operations. wall for the Empire. Ohka attacks and attempts persisted along the few months of the war continued to evolve, Betty States Navy combat air patrol fighters, especially F4U Corsair. Without escort, these Ohka-carrying Often, none of the motherships In practice, the model failed to deliver the never truly posing a significant threat other kamikaze weapons only when they hit their Historians estimate that out of more than 800 Only one ship was sunk, two were damaged beyond ships in total. No capital ships suffered These low statistics aren't that surprising, the United States Navy at the time. the United States Navy had its own nickname the aircraft: &quot;Baka&quot; - Japanese for &quot;fool.&quot; Ohka variants were built and tested for launch none came to fruition. By the time the model was In the end, not even a human-guided powerbomb despite its fearsome concept, became just another