The UK would only be able to fight Russia deputy chief of the defense staff, and Germany could do so only lack of ammunition on hand. This is while the world's geopolitical been in over three decades, with Russias invasion of Ukraine, Israel fighting Palestine and all take over Taiwan in the near future. As a response to this situation, across the board were seeing the itself in preparation for potential war in Europes collective firepower... But how Europe's military power why eleven european countries most european countries produce and use the same 155 mm is not what you think. Everyone remembers the cold war when NATO fight it out in a war that would leave During that time, both the Soviet Union and Europe latest and greatest military technology they could get their hands on. Thankfully, but it left Europe with massive With the lack of an existential european nations no longer felt the need country's economies on the military. Plus they still had all the leftover gear good equipment wasn't a priority. But now, over 30 years after the fall of Europes military equipment their ammunition The european nations have donated ammunition and equipment to Ukraine, but this has depleted One specific area is with Most of Europe uses the NATO but these have become dangerously At the start of 2022, european production of 155 mm 000 rounds per year. In 2023, 000 annually sparked by the russian invasion. Europe is expected to hit 1 million end of 2024 and 2 million by 2026. However, the vast majority of these rounds are on support of ammunition production program&quot; or &quot;ASAP&quot;. Most of Europe and NATO using isn't just a coincidence. In the event of NATO's article five being brought into war at once, each of Europes militaries will not just as a collection of small armies, but essentially operating This means that standardization of logistics doesn't become a nightmare. NATO standardization allows for supplies For example, the 5.56 mm round fired from the fired from the French FAMAS and the german G36. But it's not just ammunition Enter the F35. NATO and EU members have amounts of money on bringing their with more interoperability 2024 marked the first year that NATO required 2% of GDP spending on defense, and much of that has gone towards So far, 600 F35 Lightning II multirole total of eleven european countries. Ten of these nations are part of NATO, with Switzerland's order of Spending $6.25 billion on fifth of neutrality is an interesting but I'm sure they have their reasons! The decision across the board to adopt This will allow for more flexibility for the different air forces if attrition rates begin to rise. The reason Europe has put a bigger due to Russia's advantages in the giving them the ability to strike Buying stealth aircraft capable Europe to gain a similar ability to strike targets in contested airspaces without having to wait the years it the their own hypersonic arsenal, which they are doing too. In 2024, the UK pledged $1.26 billion towards produced hypersonic missile, with the goal of it being 90 different companies will be competing ballistic missile design. The European Defense Fund, has allocated $1.2 billion with the NATO long range fire capabilities, specifically in creating hypersonic Norway and Germany have also teamed known as the 3SM Tyrfing, but it won't be ready until 2035. As part of a larger strategy, Europe and NATO have been forced supply lines open and operating if war were to break out This has led to the establishment also known as ground which are large scale multinational troops from a naval port of entry all the The goal in establishing these land paperwork it takes to move soldiers As of now, arriving militaries still have to host nations legal jurisdiction, and this causes issues when lines as fast as possible. One way NATO and european partners together a bit smoother is increasing both the frequency and One of these is Steadfast defender, a yearly multinational training The focus of these exercises is rapid equipment from their home bases to Steadfast defender 2024 was the since the Cold War, 000 active military personnel It saw the deployment of over 80 aircraft, Because it's unrealistic for each country out military that has the latest responsibilities have mostly been specializing in one or two areas. For example, training in arctic warfare since 2006, and specializes in fighting in cold, and training other countries Estonia specializes in cybersecurity... Due to its proximity to Russia, it and the rest of balkan states cyberattacks from foreign actors. This led to the founding of in Estonia's capital of Tallinn, and it regularly conducts in the relatively new domain of cyber. Other specializations, like increased airfields or multinational aerial have been implemented across the load of collective defense. Recent reports show that NATO 5% of its own airspace, leaving the vast majority This has led to a focus on increasing specifically around coastal areas. These include american Patriot Germany is currently leading an effort which is currently seeking out to specifically to defend Of course, it wouldn't be a discussion on World possibility of a nuclear war. The use of nuclear bombs has been breakout of the war in Ukraine. Currently, the United Kingdom and France are with their own arsenal, with the UK owning about 225 However, the United States holds roughly Germany, The B61s are smaller tactical payoff military targets such as They're designed to be dropped from carried by any of Europes new F35s if given the green light With that said, Russia still sports the worlds over 4000 various warheads, vastly outnumbering the number of Poland has requested that some of Poland so they would serve as a greater This was done after Russia confirmed transferred across the border into Belarus These decisions are still up in the threats of provocation from Russia, but the idea of euro nuke lives on. Whether or not nukes are or if the war in Ukraine will There are no signs of the invasion continue to deteriorate NATO's rearmament is a hopeful deterrence, but at the very least if and when the time comes.