So guys, the Chess Olympiad 2024 is heating up. between India &amp; China. Everyone was anticipating Liren, which would have been a preview of the But as it turns out, for some strange reason, was Wei Yi who turned up to play against Gukesh. or maybe he was just not in form, who knows what not short of any drama. It was a really exciting the deciding match from board 1 because all the a lot at stake. Gukesh starts with e4, and we have moves, and in this position, d4 is the main line, So here, Gukesh opts for a very unique idea, of his comfort zone. So bishop e2, and then comes more difficult to play. Gukesh makes one more control over these light square weaknesses in the knight c6, and now Gukesh decides to go after no time in exchanging the knight for his bishop. white wants to plant his knight in the center and a bad option. So the knight jumps in. Bishop then a6, preparing to get some counterplay on the now, Gukesh has been very fast with his moves, Now the bishop is attacked, so he slides back. h8. Black's plan is now clear - at some point, he his king out of the firing line. Gukesh goes a3, b8 &amp; h3. Black plays g6, as expected. The plan these pawns. Now if you notice, Gukesh has this and it looks like a safe option because it might deadly bishops. But Gukesh is not interested in You have to take some risk to force a win, and and he prefers a more ambitious option like c3. Just look at all these aggressive pawns, black ready to fire, and it seems we're setting up for a hit that like button right now! Okay, the knight b8, keeping it on this diagonal. Gukesh is not position. E takes, g takes. And then comes another opening up his kingside. On the other hand, Wei Yi bishop takes &amp; Gukesh is a pawn up for the moment, good. In fact, Black could easily play something these pawns are rock solid in the center, so not much white can do from this position. But does not play e4, instead he just becomes greedy him with this terrible pawn structure, Gukesh can easily save it by going back to f3. alongwith this potential double attack, so bishop bishop captures, rook captures, and Gukesh it's a check. This pawn is also under pressure, so tripling down on this b2 pawn. You cannot the bishop exploits this pin &amp; white ends up in Gukesh goes after the d pawn. Then takes, and finally white takes on d6. After all these but black has a bishop pair whereas, white is left so he plays a5. Rook d8 pins the bishop. Bishop the bishop, and alongwith this, another massive check, king f2 &amp; then rook d1. The knight is now to do. One option is to attack the bishop, and option is to simplify even further by exchanging Gukesh decides to go with this variation &amp; we rook vs 2 knights. I call this challenging because The rook may keep attacking, but it can't do much keep jumping around the board constantly defending progress. Anyway, again after king e3, rook g1, it's just a lot of shuffling with the hope to after a few more moves, white manages to push a4. a chain. King advances, g3 blocks him off. Both The rook goes up, then knight f3 check, the king pins the knight, so the king moves out of the Gukesh avoids it with knight e2. Then Rook b8, such forks. So, the rook comes down again, knight rook d1 check. He tries to go after the pawns well-defended. Rook h3, this time he attacks well-defended. Now f4, black is desperately trying of the pawns, the more difficult it becomes for so white wants to keep as many pawns as possible. knight. Therefore, he attacks the rook, and once Rook takes on h4, and now all of a sudden, we have f3 attacks the rook, and after rook h1, Gukesh on - Wei Yi also advances his h pawn. Knight another check, King d8, and here comes pawn to f6. so that he can support this pawn march. Now we've don't forget, both the players are under serious for Wei Yi to activate his rook with tempo. He king alone cannot handle all these pieces, Wei Yi continues pushing his own pawn &amp; that turns to progress even further. He is just one step but it's already too late. With this move, he not on h3. That's just too much for Black to handle. interferes in between, cutting off the rook, even if Black promotes, white can get his very it becomes almost impossible for black to he cannot allow Gukesh to promote, especially side. So his best option is again rook d1 check. black as it can neutralize many potential checks type of a position &amp; hope that he would somehow that didn't happen. And in this position, Wei Yi giving away this critical pawn. That's a big big is pretty much under his control. Ideally, problem is that this pawn easily wins the game he tries to somehow eliminate this a4 pawn these knights need to quickly run up the board the best move, knight to g4. Wei Yi tries rook that just allows Black to sacrifice his rook &amp; you are left with these three squares. King e2 black is just winning if the king goes to e2. If a check &amp; reaches just in time to get rid off the D2, and a player of Gukesh's class wasn't going to h6. The idea is knight g6, and then you promote. forks the king &amp; the rook. Therefore, black tries He goes up, we have another check. Again, white knight check, king e6, queen promotion, he has Gukesh is just too sharp to fall for this. Once and that's when Wei Yi resigns. The point is that check, king d7, and now even if he tries this rook the knight, and that's just game over. So Gukesh victory, Team India is in a great position to Here are the latest rankings for both the open &amp; if India wins. Do let me know in the comments supporting. And of course, don't forget to like