- That's me, that's the and that's the burger I just made him. But there's a catch. The patty in that burger And the reason I can eat it raw is it's made entirely from plants. As you guys know, every year, I dedicate one of my 12 videos are using science and technology to change the world for the better. So, for example, two years ago, it was a paper centrifuge and microscope that could diagnose malaria for 51 cents versus $10,000 for traditional equipment. And then last year, it that helps poorer countries turn contaminated muddy water That's also when I first met Bill, and he earned my forever respect after I microwaved up and he ate them like a champ. I've been loosely following the for a couple years now, and allegedly it looks yet it's made from plants. Now, at the top of this video, I feel like I should I eat meat, like, kind of a lot. I've had some form of meat since I was a kid. My favorite genre of food is barbecue. And so be that as it may, as a firm believer in I feel like it's time for me and get to the bottom of And so today, on my quest for answers, I'm looking at three main questions. Number one, how does it taste? And not just that, but how does How successfully does it trick my brain into thinking this is real meat? Number two, is it good for me? If it does trick my brain, Is it just some kind of, And also, how does it compare to, like, the protein from a real burger? And number three, is And on this one, I have but is it like, meh, it's a little better, or is it like 100 times better? Now, I should say a big motivation for me and something I think could agree on is that the concept of The whole cows that have never and pigs, which by most that live their entire lives These factories are efficient. They're optimized for driving down costs, not for animal well-being. And I'm not trying to be a downer. It's just something I when I'm eating my In-N-Out And it's a lame excuse, but I feel like I sort of never have had a good alternative option. I mean, historically, and nothing about this But in recent years, the strategy shifted to basically try and make it as which reduces friction for So their goal is, if I'm going meatless instead of a quinoa salad, I can still enjoy the full experience of a burger with my friends. And so on that note, let's get right into question number one. Throw this puppy on the grill. (burger sizzles) Sizzle! It definitely sounds like a burger and even smells like it. And you're getting, like, which is causing the flames to come up. (burger sizzles) So, so far, the experience to just grilling a burger. When I lick the fork, it definitely tastes like All right, this cuts and feels But before I officially taste it, I kind of wanna know And to do that, I'm gonna who are the leader in this space, Beyond Meat and Impossible Foods. At Beyond Meat, the first were the labs where they Are these actual, are these actors, or these are real scientists? - These are scientists, yeah. - This feels like &quot;Jurassic Park,&quot; you know, where they're, And right out of the gate, and showed me a tray of all the main stuff that makes up their burgers. Apparently, they work but they have teams of researchers working on the texture, color, the smell, the grilling sound, even the same amount as a meat burger. Their goal is to make it for people like me to make the switch. So they have these for the color, coconut and sunflower oil for the fat so it sizzles on the grill, potatoes for carbohydrates, and then these for the protein, the majority coming from yellow peas. These burgers are better for you because they have no cholesterol, but they do have saturated so you shouldn't think of this as healthy as, like, a plain After getting the full tour, so it was time for the I've intentionally kept - Okay, great. - And I haven't tasted it, and I had opportunities, No pressure, but next week, - Yeah. You're like a professional chef, right? - [Chef Chris] I am. - In the next like 20 minutes, you need to transfer all that knowledge from your brain into mine, okay? We started with their Italian sausage made, of course, just from plants, and Chef Chris showed me some power moves to impress Bill with on the grill. I'm so scared. - [Chef Chris] Cheers. - Okay, cheers. Even putting flavor aside- - [Chef Chris] I think Bill will be okay with a little bit of a juice. - There's no way I would've guessed I wasn't actually eating real meat. That's pretty good. - [Chef Chris] Cheers. - Cheers. That's really good. I need one more taste. That's freaking good. - Thank you. - Next up was their burger, which, it turns out, was equally amazing. Genuinely, when you surround it's really hard to tell. - There's no way to tell. - My next trip was to Impossible Foods, and they actually let just from the ingredients in these bowls. - So the first thing that we're gonna do is add the water to the soy protein, and then we're gonna - Okay. we're gonna put in is which, do you know what this is? - Red #5, it's just food color. (laughs) - So this is our magic ingredient. It's called heme, which Heme is responsible for That's found in every You can get heme from soy plants. - I see. - You don't have to get it from animals. - Next we added the to hold everything together, and then finally the - Have you done any - Oh, tons of pastry work. You're gonna, like, fold and smush. - All my pastry work's shining through. - You literally just made the - Like, five little cups. - One of them was water. - One of them was water. - So now I think it's time - 96% of the folks who are self-identified meat eaters. - I'm definitely your target demo. I grew up, like, if the it wasn't a meal. - When it delivers in that same characteristic it really proves the point that we are providing a for those meat eaters out there - [Mark] This raised an interesting point. Meat has been cleverly because real men need their protein. - [Spokesperson] That's what a man eats. - [Spokesperson] Made - [Spokesperson] Eat like a man, man. - [Mark] But the truth is, get roughly half their by eating things that contain some kind of beans, peas, nuts, or whole grains like corn, rice, and oats. In fact, many high-performance athletes are switching to a plant-based diet because studies have shown it can help reduce by almost 30% in just three weeks, and inflammation makes it harder So if a plant-based diet is good enough for Arnold Schwarzenegger, Venus and Serena Williams, Nate Diaz, and a growing butt ton of others, it's probably good enough for me and my weekly rec league soccer game. Ballin' like Curry - [Chef] You can ultimately utilize this in any way you would use - So tacos, lasagna, meatballs. - You name it. (mellow music) - This is so good. This is a plant-based burger, and look at the mess I'm making. So obviously I thought their but I felt like I wanted before I felt truly So I invited some friends that serves Impossible burgers. And the thing is, you 'cause they might just change - It's really good. - Kids, on the other so we ordered them - Do you like it? - [Mark] But might have neglected to mention it to them beforehand. What do you think? - It's really good. - [Mark] There's no meat in that burger. - Wait, what? You're lying. - [Mark] Plants. - What? - [Mark] That was a plant burger. You ate a plant burger. - Instead of meat, it was vegetables? - It just tastes, like, - And so feeling more confident than ever, it was time to visit Bill, put my culinary skills to the test, and see if he could help me So I'm back in Bill's kitchen. He's gonna be here in an hour, (upbeat music) All right, Bill. - Hey. - How are you? - So I've been working - Perfect. - And I kind of wanted to talk to you about plant-based meat, and I thought maybe we - Sure. - But as a control, I know you're a big fan of Dick's burgers, so to kind of cleanse the palate, I thought we could just take a bite. - That's the real thing. - The real thing. As a non-Seattle native, I've gotta say, I think this may be an acquired taste. - Yeah, you get used to a certain burger. - You get used to it. And so now it was time for my cooking. (jaunty music) What do you think? - It's quite good. I mean, that's light-years away - Like the traditional veggie burger? - Right. You know, the quality's If the plant-based guys eventually, they claim you won't be able to tell the difference. - [Mark] Next up was my killer bratwurst. - Wow. Well, that's pretty good. - [Mark] And at this point in my quest, I felt like I had a pretty good lock on questions one and two, so I asked him about number three. - The agriculture sector is but livestock is about half of that 18%. - Wow. - And almost all of that is beef. - Is this like cow farts, cow burps? - Slightly more burps than farts, but it's a mix of those two. To put that into perspective, that means that sector for more greenhouse gases trains, ships, and planes combined. Turns out it takes a lot - Very inefficient, particularly beef, it's almost eight to one. You use eight calories to feed that cow for every calorie of because you're building bone - Now, this was a really good point I hadn't fully considered. If you think about it, as humans, we're really solar powered. We eat plants, but they get Then you might be like, &quot;Ah, But they get their which, again, get their So when it comes to getting animals are an inefficient middleman. We get on average 10% of our calories or energy in a day from meat. That might sound reasonable until you look at the to make that meat If you combined all the land in the US dedicated to raising animals, you would get an area like this, and then plus this much more to grow the crops needed Now, remember, all of for 10% of our daily energy. Now compare that to the for crops we actually That relatively small chunk of land is where the overwhelming majority of our personal energy comes from. And it's not just land To end up with 24 hamburger patties, it requires the amount of That same amount of water could make 75 loaves of whole grain bread and 30 jars of peanut butter. So if I made myself a delicious which has nearly the identical amounts of both calories and proteins and then I ate two a day, the meat would last me and the sandwiches would So that's the same same amount of calories and One just lasted me a year longer because it's a much more This is why a plant-based diet is a way more efficient We could feed an additional if all countries just ate the And here's why that fact matters. - Particularly as people get richer, they tend to eat more meat. If we don't do anything, this sector will actually grow over time. - So you're saying not just the fact that there's more people but as people move up they want to consume more meat. And you could certainly when you look at the over the past 50 years. Given the resources required, a trajectory for meat is simply unsustainable. A few decades ago, meat was but now it's a commodity for In fact, the demand is growing so much, it now makes sense for just to burn it down and to turn that forest into We've irreversibly lost and that's a double gut punch 'cause now not only is that more cow farts adding to climate change, but when you burn those trees, all the carbon stored inside them goes back into the atmosphere - One of the great tragedies about climate is that it's the poorest in the world, the farmers who live that all this heat and they're going to suffer by far the most. If you're just trying to don't eat meat, don't drive It's such a dramatic set of sacrifices that everybody has to engage in that, without innovation, we're probably gonna go - And that last part is the silver lining. Plant-based meat is the Bill's referring to here. And I'm optimistic because as the demand for the price will come down, So then not only will the experience be identical to eating meat, but it's better for and much better for the planet. Oh, and it also costs half as much. It just becomes a really easy decision for people to switch in massive numbers. All right, so what does this all mean? Now that I've completed where do I stand? And I'll say it still makes to think about these factory farms or the Amazon being burned down But at the same time, I can't really blame who know nothing about for just trying to feed their family. As long as the demand for there will be an incentive to be not cool to our So the most effective thing we can do is try and reduce that demand. So after all this, I'm not a vegan. I'm not even strictly But I have reduced the by more than half, and I feel great. Importantly, I broke out that for it to be considered a true meal, it has to have some form of meat. So if any part of this I would say don't take my word for it, try it for yourself. You can find plant-based meat options in thousands of restaurants and even at Burger King and Carl's Jr. Most grocery stores have a so you can substitute it into your favorite home-cooked meal. And remember, it doesn't like you either eat no meat or If a bunch of people did that would have a huge impact on demand. Some of the challenges we face globally can feel pretty daunting, and so I love seeing clever people innovating on the front lines, trying to make it as easy as possible for the rest of us to It gives me hope about and inspires me to wanna do my part. - I actually thought of all that livestock was going Now with these companies and other ones coming along in this space, I'd say steel and cement are now the two that I'm still scratching my head. - Well, if anyone's gonna to solve the problem, I think humanity is grateful So on behalf of, I don't know, the world, we appreciate the efforts I have some celebratory pizza rolls. Last year, I made you eat- - Actually, they're frozen. You don't want those. - It's just a prop. I'll spare you. - You tricked me, Mark Rober! (upbeat music)