All right. We're where you can lift so much weight It's Tough Man. I love a game where 2 seconds So the idea is very simple, see? Release the weight at exactly the right time. And if you don't, Skeletor beats you to I wish I knew why that happens. I don't really have Now you start obviously is incredibly trim But if this is anything the internet, you will eventually turn Right about there to get to level three. All right. So does my- Do my biceps go up ever? At all? Do I ever like do leg day? Because it doesn't look like leg days a part of this. I love that. There's Like, none of that makes any sense at all. Like, I'm trying to fill up The blood is rushing to my face so hard are going to explode out of my skull All right. Let's Okay. Then it goes to 100- How many are there? Oh, my God. Oh, it's still going. It's still going. I'm still dragging it. What is happening? Okay, now I need to know what the final one is. Alright, so does this- There, I got the maximum. Okay, I went into- Into ultra testosterone overdrive. I don't even know what's happening. My heart is eventually that I'm going to begin out of my nose just because my blood Over 10 billion. Okay. So now we're moving into level four. Did the legs get any bigger? No. I love how I got a beard, now, though. I feel like, just like in real life, you can just throw money at the problem of becoming buff So that's what I'm going to do in a second. All right. So it's 800 coins in order to buy this I love how one of It's like a really scrawny Batman. Does 400,000 coins allow me to inject myself with Anaconda blood? Oh, I got some new. I got some new exercise moves now. We're going to total body workout. Hold on, I'm going to buy a new I just need to finish this up. Whoever did the voice acting for whatever they originally were paid. They need to just increase it by times two because this is amazing. Oh, yeah. Look at the neck muscles. Alright, let's go, let's go. Oh, yeah, yeah. Keep it going. What- Okay. Yesssss... How do you even- Hold on, I need to know. All right. Okay. Yeah, that's kind of like, so you don't have to limp Just doing a tiny when you're lifting over a ton. Is that- Just watching me from afar? It is, isn't it? It's the devil. He's up there. Come on, give me a perfect. That's the perfect 2000 points! What?!? Oh, yeah. Go ahead. Give me. Give me my next level. I deserve it. First, let me drink Oh, I get to gain two levels in one shot. All right, let's just keep going. Is this like some sort It's just a giant log. I love it. Let's use it. Nice and smooth. There it is. Ultimate log squatting right there. Got to get that full body blown out. I swear right now See, right now, it kind of looks like I'm But in a moment, pipe cleaners that have been blessed I am so far past level six. I'm going all perfect. All perfect. Right. They're over 12,000. Well, Give me a quadriceps. Oh, yeah. I am literally just changing my humanity. I'm not even the same person anymore. I'm just like One Punch Man. I became. Oh, wow. I'm getting. Oh, my God. Oh no.... What is this?!?. Just like One Punch Man, when you get strong enough, It's the exact same thing here. Also, my eyes are bloodshot. I've been snorting caffeine God, that looks unhealthy. I feel like this would rip What is this? Is that what? What? Oh, my God. It's an elephant. You actually have to work out Oh, yeah? Why not just bench I mean, it's no big deal. Then you throw them in the air I need to get perfect here. Boom. Right there. Big points. I want more than one level. We're only level nine right now, Like an inhuman mutant freak of nature. We got to go far past this and find out what the apex of humanity actually is. Okay, so what do we do? What do we turn into now? the hearts, and oh, now I'm brain. Basically, I have giant infusions All right, well, let's Okay, this looks kind of normal. It looks just like big ACME weights over Oh, here, I can actually work out with a fish. Bane needs your assistance. That was close, but You'll know it's perfect absolutely ballistic We're already past level ten. I get another try here, too. Come on, baby. 6000 points. Like it's no big deal. Behold the transformation. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I love that taller than my actual scalp. Okay, so, you know, you get. This is like a monster truck tire. Oh, two couple of tires, I've got to do it. I've got to lift the space shuttle. Here we go. Perfect Yeah. Now we're doing squats with a space shuttle, because that's I'm going to send this space shuttle Well, with whatever Like I said, I don't even know if I'll be after this next evolution Apparently I may be made out of body hair. Have I destroyed the planet around me? All of the buildings are destroyed. My eyes have been replaced with tiny suns. All right, let's just keep going here. Okay? So now we have a keg. I have a double keg, and I have a boombox. A man inside of a tub drinking a martini. All right. Yeah. You know what? All right, Martini Man, you're going to be flying here in a little bit. 13,000 points! Whyyyyyy? They just mean absolutely nothing now. It's just whatever the game wants to give you. There's no way that we're only going especially if I get it perfect on this last- This guy's like my good luck charm. Him drink- Maybe that's what destroyed the planet. Maybe it's not my- My own strength. It's just the apocalypse. Yeah, two levels right there. Going straight up to level 14. I have now developed, like, You know, we've gotten this many That's what's insane. It look like tires- It may just be weights. It doesn't make any sense Even the game just does what everyone's, I'm going to I'm going to work this out It's really hard, though, You cannot mess up at all. Okay. So now there's a little bit of a larger area for me to get the perfect. this is nice and safe. See, now the game is just giving it to me. It felt bad. and faster, too. and you have to release at Let's- Let's keep going- Yep, sure. Oh, wait, why stop in a car That's right. Need help moving? That's what Gray Still Plays is for. I love that, in the end, too, the character just yeets the box truck. It's like, &quot;I don't need this truck!&quot; I wonder if the driver's still in there. Alright, so we're going to end up I don't think we can get we're going to see I feel like my I feel like my pectorals are sagging slightly. Maybe my maybe my rib it is bringing my chest down with it. So now we have just boulders, Now we have oh, it's two guys now. This guy is huge, though. If this is how many pounds, 12,400 Also, do I have a spike It might just be like a cancerous growth. All right. We're past level 15 now All right. Looks pretty similar. It's just I'm getting slightly more rocky. Why is the rubber ducky? Oh, never mind. I need to do it. I was like, why is the rubber duck? Just like, why does it weigh so much? I didn't know that it was because I love how my guy Look at how big our original building was. We are taller now than the skyscrapers The duck, however, is not enough How about this giant hotdog? Like, would a hotdog this big weigh that much? I feel like it probably would. Or this hot Hot dog, 26,000 points. Are you kidding me? Welcome to weightlifting, All right? And are my neck muscles going to get to the point Oh, wow. Yeah. I'm not even human anymore. Okay, so is this, like, Oh, it's three barrels. Okay. Or a tree. What is this? What is this? What is staring at me? It's so concerning. I don't know what that is. That is a very large, perfect area Yeah, flex. You deserve it. We're flexing. We're flexing big time, with this really fearful It's like some sort of discount Pokemon. Yeah. Okay, so we're past 100,000 points and we're going to level up into level 18. It's taking me forever to drink I've got a trident for a forehead. Lived in a tugboat, actually, Oh, I got it. Oh, It's really hard to get that because that's a tiny All right. We're going for the level here. Okay. Well, that was close to perfect, We need 160,000 heart chunks. Make Link from Zelda proud. All right. I need a perfect one here. Come on, baby. Yessss!!! I wonder if there's any passengers inside that plane. Okay, so after eating all of the lives of the innocent, I mean, I'm taller, All right. Gigantic burger. Oh, I'm dual wielding the burgers. Oh, I love it! I'm like, I'm looking out three seats. I can't believe that my wrists don't little black holes like little vortexes I am easily breaking Okay, so here we have- It's just a house. Oh, yeah. Discount Floridian property right here, man. Oh, yeah. All right, let's. We got bombs. I'll find out in a second. First of all, to lift this, 51,000 for the perfect All right. I've now moved past the city. I'm almost taller than the gigantic- Hold on. Real quick: What happens if you lift, like, the tiniest one? Like, can you even see it- I can't believe I just got that perfect. There is no room for error. Oh, yeah. That is worth something. That is worth an evolution right there. And we're even taller We're gonna be taller than whatever All right. I had to inject Hold on. I'm gonna do this one. Now, at level 25, I will finally end my evolutionary abilities. That's kind of where it maxes out at. Okay. With the perfect 57,000 going straight past level we should get part of the way So now even taller, I'm almost larger Oh, there's a volcano! All right. Hold on. Let's get that. It's just a whole mountain. 64,000 points for perfectly All of the squats! All right. We're easily I want to see if I can get at least one to keep it moving way past. All right. Growing up further aaaaaaaand... I'm Diablo now. I am actually the devil. All right. We're going to go We might as well lift the mountain in a second- And a perfect for 78,000 points! And on this one, triple perfect. Yes. All right. So past level 23 into level 24. and probably most of the way Oh, yeah. I am now breathing fire. I'm just breathing liquid magma. This will be an easy triple perfect. Perfect number two. And now perfect number three. Going to be bigger I'm going to squat so hard And here we go. Yeah. I love that you just once you finally get and that's where you start . Well, I started lifting and I eventually destroyed Anyway, folks, hope you enjoyed this episode of Tough Man.