Today we will see how photovoltaic cells can be manufactured with some simple DVDs Manufacturing a solar panel with Silicon DVDs. To start manufacturing our solar panel we will use two doors like this as a structure. But first we must leave the surface completely smooth. To do this we will begin by removing the handles or knobs, the locks,... ... and we will also remove the hinges. Now we do the same with the other door. Next we prepare some round pieces of wood to cover the lock holes. And we sand them so that they fit under pressure in the holes. We glue them with cyanoacrylate... Like this. I have to scratch the imperfections on the door so I can apply putty so that it adheres perfectly to the wood. We start by applying wood putty on all the imperfections of the doors, to have a flat surface that will act as a structure for our CD solar panel. After 24 hours, when the putty is completely dry, we sand the entire surface of the doors so that it is very smooth and thus it will be ready for painting. We start by painting one side of the doors with Zinc paint. And now we continue painting the other side of the doors with black synthetic paint. They have looked very good after painting them. We continue joining the two doors with hinges. We join the hinges in this way. And now we fix the center hinge. We have modified this hinge by joining the two parts with a long bolt. This way the doors cannot be accidentally separated. There has been a separation between both doors of 25 millimeters. This way we will have enough space in the middle to build our solar panel. We are going to make a solar panel with CDs. But we will not use just any CD, but these purple CDs, because they contain a layer of internal silicon. This type of CD does not contain silicon. It does not work. We need the silicon CDs. These do work. To make electrical contact from the back, with the grinder we will carefully remove the plastic to reach the rear layer of silicon. That way we can make electrical contact. We are going to need a huge amount of silicon CDs. It won't be easy to find them. In total we will use 210 CDs which will be equivalent to 327 volts. We removed some of the plastic to get to the back layer of silicon. This is how it conducts electricity. Prepared 210 DVDs. Now we are going to cut strips of aluminum foil that we will use later to electrically join the CDs. 30 mm wide will be enough. We must fold all the aluminum strips in half. Like this... Now we cut all the aluminum strips into pieces about 45 mm long to make the electrical connections. Here we have a CD with the rear silicon exposed. We take a strip of aluminum and put it here, on the back of the CD, and stick it with adhesive tape. It should stay like this, this way. And we do the same with all the CDs. Now we are going to measure the voltage generated by one of our silicon CDs. We are in front of a large window where a large amount of sunlight enters. We check the voltage and we have 1.56 volts. We measure again... 1.56 volts. Very good! At this moment we must begin to place our photovoltaic cells. We will follow the pattern we have in this plane. We will connect all our CDs in series, in this way to achieve 330 volts of direct current and a maximum power of 3000 watts. Thanks to the double layer of three-dimensional silicon, a DVD is capable of generating up to six times more energy than a normal silicon cell of the same dimensions. We must put on latex gloves to avoid accidental electrical contact. And we begin to position the CDs following the electrical diagram. Like this... If you look closely, the aluminum electrode that is glued to the bottom of the CD should make contact with the top layer of the CD that we place next. And so on. In this way we will connect all the CDs in series to add the voltage generated by each of them. And we do the same on the other side. Now that we have our photovoltaic cells positioned correctly, we must glue them to the wooden base with hot silicone so that they do not move. This way they stuck together very well. As you can see, the aluminum electrodes do not make good contact with the top silicon layer of the CDs. Since we don't want to stick them with adhesive tape because the solar panel would be less efficient, we will solve it in another, more ingenious way. Now we mark where we should drill. And we make two holes of 10 mm diameter. Like this... Now we put this strip of aluminum foil here and tape it down. This will be the positive terminal and this will be the negative terminal. We do the same on the other side. Now we pass the ends of the cables through the holes we have made. We fix each cable with a screw to the electrical terminals of the solar panel. The black wire will be negative... And the red wire will be positive. We repeat the process on the other half of our solar panel. And we seal the holes with silicone. Like this... So that each aluminum electrical terminal makes good contact, we are going to stick a tear of adhesive silicone on each of them. Like this... we will put one on each sheet. Later we will put a layer of synthetic glass on top that will press the aluminum sheets against the CDs. Thus making good electrical contact. Now we place the synthetic glass panels in place. And we remove the protective film. Once the protective film has been removed, we can seal all the ends of the synthetic crystals with transparent silicone. In addition, this way they will be well glued. Now we are going to put the special MC4 connectors for solar panels. Here we have put another type of connector so as not to make mistakes. In this way we connect the two halves of our solar panel in series. Now we are going to screw these aluminum profiles around our solar panel. This way it will be much more robust and have a better finish. In addition, they also help to better hold the synthetic glass panels. The result is impressive. We have also manufactured this safety closure. Let's screw it here. This way we can transport it without danger of it opening. And now our panel is finally ready. Manufacturing of the electrical panel. We will use this wooden base to fix the electrical elements. This device is a solar frequency converter. It transforms the current generated by solar panels from 200 to 400 Volts of direct current to 220 Volts of alternating current, like that of household outlets. They have the purchase link in the video description. This is a 20 amp magneto-thermal switch special for direct current. It will serve to provide electrical power to the solar frequency converter. And finally a socket base. Let's ride it. These cables will go from the output of the Circuit Breaker to the power input of the frequency converter. We will connect the red cable to the positive terminal of the variator. And the black wire to the negative. Like this... These are the power cables to connect the solar panels. The positive in the positive part of the circuit breaker, and the negative in the negative part. Now we cut the cable from the power strip here. We uncover the cables... We put these electrical terminals on them... And we connect them to the alternating current output of the frequency converter. The ground wire will be connected here. We have already finished our electrical panel. Now we are going to test it indoors with the light from our spotlights and the sunlight from a large window. We connect these two cables like this to join the two panels in series. And now we will connect the solar panel to our electrical panel. Let's check the direct current voltage generated by our large solar panel. 317... 318 Volts... When activating the Circuit Breaker and powering the frequency converter there is a small voltage drop. 290 Volts... The drive is programmed to deliver 220 Volts at 50 Hz frequency. We turn it on and see that the socket is energized. Let's check if this bulb lights up. Very good! At the moment the circuit seems to be working correctly. It's time for the real outdoor test. Testing the solar panel outdoors. Today is a very sunny day. It is an ideal time to test the power of our solar panel. With about 30 degrees of inclination so that the sun's rays hit better. Now we are going to connect the electrical panel with the solar panel. We connect each cable where it belongs. We are going to do the first test with a small air compressor. We activate the magnetothermic and energize the frequency converter. We start it by pressing the green power button. And we connect two energy meters to check the electrical consumption of each device. The frequency converter screen seems to flicker but it is an effect caused by the camera with which we recorded the video. The display shows 50 Hz, which is the frequency of the electrical current it provides. We connect the air compressor. Its consumption is approximately 700 Watts... And it works perfectly. It is normal due to the great power generated by this panel and the good weather. We can see that its real consumption is about 727 Watts. We turn off the compressor and check that the consumption is zero Watts. Let's connect something much more powerful and see what happens. Now the day is a little cloudier but we are going to trust in the efficiency of our solar panel. Let's start up this inverter welding equipment. We connect the plug. We also bring an angle grinder. We see that it works without problems even with a slightly cloudy sky. Consumes 865 Watts of power. And now let's solder. We turn on the welding machine... We adjust the power... And we start to weld these two iron profiles. We were surprised to see the efficiency of this solar panel, since due to the power regulation we did on the welding machine, the consumption was the maximum that the solar frequency converter could provide. 2200 watts!!! Very good! With this invention we can easily work in the field. If you've made it this far, say what you think in the comments and hit Like. Your Likes and your comments support us a lot. We are going to continue with our outdoor work session. We can see that this 750 Watt drill also works without problems. Now let's put this 2200 watt demolition hammer into operation. The solar panel can even handle the demolition hammer. Spectacular !!! As you can see we can work with all types of tools in the field. Now we are going to water with this water pump. The solar panel also resists the pump without problems. We are extracting water from this pond at about 15 meters. After a long day of work it is time for a well-deserved rest. This 30 Watt fan will provide us with a cool breeze. Comment if you also sleep after work. Tonight we will test our solar panel again in the light of the full moon. What will happen?... You will see it in our next video. Thanks for watching us! If you want to support us or our videos consider becoming a member. You will also have access to other member-only benefits. Thanks for being there Share this video and join the energy revolution.