Translator: Rhonda Jacobs As someone who has been well, for some years - (Laughter) I am an observer. Those of us who are in the healing arts, we are observers of the patterns Why do we become ill? What helps us to become better? I mean, we are great and I find it so interesting that for all the years that we are such mysteries. Which should tell us right off the bat that we continue that we ourselves, that we are continuing and that we as human beings are continuing to find places to observe. Let us say that the world behind our eye is our new frontier. And that we have become in a way that other generations have not, that this is the new frontier; And so observing, for example, why we don't heal, than if that question were asked before World War II. The depth to which and the depth to which is a hologram compared they asked and they were We are looking for a story, a narrative, reasons that are a complexity. When I've been working with people now and as an observer of people, there are so many, many things but I've narrowed them down, to choice. I want to emphasize the power of choice. And perhaps there was a time but we have to talk about that today. Because choice is a fundamental power We need to put choice as an authority, as a power that is so huge that if I ran the world - this is where you should say, (Laughter) if I ran the world, I would make studying the power of choice That everyone should learn have infinite consequences. From the littlest choice and that - here's the paradox - you have no idea what a little choice is or a big choice. What we are used to doing is believing that a big choice buying a house, getting married, getting divorced. In fact, those are your small choices. The choices that actually matter when it comes to healing, when it comes to positioning yourself, empowering yourself, are the tiny ones that- are the choices, I should say, that you make in the privacy that perhaps you think I have found repeatedly, repeatedly, are the most powerful the most powerful, that have the most powerful on your soul, on your sense of who you are, on your wellbeing, on your whole life map. And I'll tell you something else that these are the types of statements because if someone said, &quot;I want you to bring I couldn't do it. But if you listen and see if it doesn't settle well there So I'm going to take you through choices, the kind of choices &quot;I don't feel well. I don't feel well. And I have chronic chronicness. (Laughter) And I go from one chronicness to another. I have chronic chronicnesses. I am always a curmudgeon. Nothing makes me happy. I am always complaining, And I almost make And I almost like my life And I almost can love someone I almost make it there, but I don't actually really feel it. I think I feel it, so I think-feel. I think-feel. And every now and again but it doesn't last. I take two aspirins, it passes. (Laughter) But then I think maybe it is, But then it is, (Laughter) So I go to therapist: 'Is this love?' But if I try hard enough, but maybe, Chronicness. There's never been people like us We're extraordinary in our issues. As I go into this, here's another thing And put this in your chicken soup belly. We are born knowing certain things; we're wired for it. It's in our instinct; it's in our spiritual instincts, We are born knowing Choice is the most powerful thing and we know it. And that's the reason why I'll ask somebody, &quot;I don't know.&quot; &quot;Pick a restaurant.&quot; &quot;No.&quot; Can't even pick a restaurant. People are terrified of making choices. Terrified of the consequence. &quot;You choose.&quot; Terrified of being held accountable &quot;Well, I don't know what I want to do. The morning, the day - Your mind gets the day shift; Your mind says, &quot;Well, I think.&quot; And you don't let the two of them Because if they do Choice terrifies people. Most people will do anything So I'm going to help you out. We're going to go through that matter, that matter, that make a difference. The first choice is the decision And when I say make a choice to do that, I don't mean, &quot;Well, I live a good life.&quot; No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm talking full-scale I'm actually going to do it. I'm going to live a life of integrity. Never mind this 'speak my truth,' I'm going to live with integrity. I'm going to make my choices I'm going to live. And what this means I'm not going to compromise myself. I'm not going to put myself in a position, or if I'm in a circumstance, Or I won't force another person, I won't force another person, to be in a circumstance in order to please me. I won't hold another person captive because that has no integrity. I will not do that. Now, let me tell you something. Liars don't heal. Liars don't heal. So you can eat and you can do all this stuff (Laughter) but an honest person who eats cat food (Laughter) Dishonest people, people who lie, people who have moral crises people who blame others for things people who make choices, and they know another person's going and they are conscious of it, they know for a fact that they're and they know another person's people who deliberately believe you me, Your mind knows you did that. Your heart and soul know you did that. So don't tell yourself, that the problem with your depression Don't go there; knock it off; The decision to live an integrous life So it's not as simple as saying, Knock it off. This is major league. Second: Are you taking notes? (Laughter) You make a decision: I will not pass my suffering on, I make the decision but my wisdom. So that from the years of your life, The gifts that I have to pass on, or I will pass on &quot;Oh, my poor life. Ah, da da, da da, da da, da da.&quot; Or go harvest the wisdom. What do you want to pass on? The sludge or the wisdom? That's up to you. Everybody has a choice, but again, it's the choice. It's the choice; we all have that. And believe me, I am not saying But if we look at life, there are certain things the great religious traditions, the great spiritual, holy traditions One of the lessons of these traditions, is that life will never be that wonderful, which is what we call 'fair.' It will never be that. It will never be I had someone tell me one time, &quot;Well, if I only knew. And I said, &quot;And what difference What if God sent an angel, I mean, you've been What do you want?&quot; &quot;I want to know why this happened, What if the angel said, &quot;Because it did&quot;? Now what? Now, here's the thing: Some of the grief and injuries are so horrible it's unbelievable. And the truth is nothing can make that better. And the model of healing is a model that says healing It's not about forgetting. It's about looking and saying, 'This will never defeat me. It will never defeat me, I have to somehow turn this into my source of wisdom, but I will not live in woe. I will not.' And that becomes this choice. I have to choose: wisdom or woe. But I can't make it go away, then that is the choice: wisdom or woe. The third: the choice to take risks. Take risks in your life. Don't wait for proof, take risks. And how does this factor into your health? Because what happens is, what happens when people become ill and they feel their They always hit regrets. You will alwys hit the regret stage. You will always hit I should have done that, You will always hit that place even if you're going to go right back up. You will hit the regret stage in which Even if you just have a cold. And one of the regrets that happens when all of us begin to diminish is we review the life had we not lived a life was based on the fear of being humiliated. 'What if I'm humiliated by this?' 'What if I can't take 'What if I'm too frightened?' 'What if I'm alone?' 'What if this costs me too much money?' Well, what if? And to this I would say, go home and ask yourself 'How many of my greatest How many have actually really happened? How many of my greatest fears and then, actually calculate, write down how many of the most wonderful things did I actually have anything to do with? And probably... two. I'm giving you the benefit Because if you look, and add, most of the best things you didn't have anything to do with. And if you think, &quot;How did this happen?&quot; Probably through a lot of things that were actually very risky Don't take the safe path. Don't tell yourself that because- When you are making decisions don't look backwards for guidance, because there's nothing 'back there.' The reason you are where you are Don't look for 'over' to chart 'new.' Don't go there. When it's time to make a decision do not go to who you were, what you did, because it will pull you back, perhaps even to places to images of yourself that are no more. You are not that person. And one of the ways to weaken you is that it causes you to long for things and they're not in the field yet to come. What builds vitality, what builds the desire is for you to say, Be in the newness, not afraid of it. Be in that newness. Be there. Next: Choose new words. I love this. I love this one. When I was growing up- I'm a writer, I'm a wordsmith, but I absolutely adore words. I actually went to bed Because every word every single word, sometimes if it's appropriate, is come back tomorrow - no, make it one - that you will never use again. Just one, I just want one word, and you will never use it again. Never. And I get to have everything Everything. And I don't care if the word's I just want one word.&quot; So imagine if you decided, &quot;I'll give you the word... 'blue,'&quot; Now, I really, really want you in the next couple of days, and think about if you really which meant you had that went with that word out of your head, what would you give Zebra? You'd never see a zebra again. You really want to give up Okay, and everything that went with that. Now, when someone says your thoughts go to that exercise and then construct the words word by word. And how powerful every single word is, not only that you say to another person, What are the words you say to yourself? Words that you should Words that you should never, ever use. Words that you should say, When we finally do micro energy medicine, we will finally do energy analysis at a level that includes And we will be able to say to people: that the vibration of your neurology includes frequencies, that are so toxic, it is offset by a vocabulary that is organically so negative, I don't care what your visualization is, your vocabulary is fundamentally hostile, it is hostile. If I had to rate your vocabulary, it is fundamentally a hostile one toward everyone, and toward yourself. You get up in the morning Your first thoughts are angry. You see your life as not enough. You see others as not enough. Your first reaction Your first reaction &quot;They're not good enough.&quot; And you hold as two words, &quot;I blame them.&quot; &quot;And I deserve this.&quot; And you feel entitled. Three words that are lethal: And if you could extricate you have no idea If you never use those three words again, I will tell you right now because you're not entitled to anything. Blaming others, blaming anything and it will absolutely And you realize all is who's blaming you for something. And just picture and how would you like Because if you're blaming others, Someone's in therapy (Laughter) So stop looking at the world Finally, make this choice. Choose to get up every day Choose to get up every single day And say, I have no idea what's Why? Because I am alive. And don't base your gratitude or how you feel, but just because you are. Just because you are! Just because you are. And then hold in your heart this prayer: This day of my life will never come again. I will never see the people I will never see this sunrise again, I will never see the person just this way. No, nothing in my life like this That alone, that choice alone should take out of your heart That it should shape the life around you that it would make you with great gratitude and love. Thank you everybody. (Applause)