Around 33 million years ago, in the late Oligocene kinda mammal. As we're all well aware at this point, viral time. But this time was different. It would turn out to be the beginning of a of almost every order of mammals around today one that touched many different species, spanned years! Yes. Imagine: A pandemic that lasted 15 million And we know this pandemic happened because, ancient virus trapped in our DNA -- a molecular This fossil was not the actual virus itself, Scientists named this DNA sequence ERV-Fc, viral fossils that have been discovered in And, I know you have questions about this, Like, what was this virus? How did it end up in our genome? What disease did it cause, if any? And is it...doing anything in there now? While we don't have all of the answers yet, one of the many stories hidden in our very Whether they're animals, plants, or fungi, in common: Their DNA is riddled with the remains These viral leftovers are known as Endogenous And most of them are the remnants of ancient cells of our mammal ancestors. Those kinds of viruses insert themselves into life cycle. And when this happens in reproductive cells, parent to offspring. Now, this doesn't happen with every viral In fact, viruses embedding in the genome of Because everything has to go just right for First, the virus has to integrate into the spots to not kill those cells or disrupt how Then, those cells have to be the lucky few egg, which is what allows the ERV to be passed And then, it has to keep getting passed on over time. But over millions of years, these rare events fossil record behind. In some ways, it's actually a lot like the about here: it requires specific conditions Nonetheless!, ERVs are so common in our DNA 8% of our total genome. That's about four times higher than the of genes - the sequences that actually code Yes, you heard that right, but just in case In terms of DNA content, you're about 8% So what I'm saying is.... You are more virus than you are genes! Now, figuring out where each bit of that viral Many of these sequences have built up so many that they're really fragmented and hard But in the case of ERV-Fc, that sequence tells pandemic. Or, maybe more accurately, a series of epidemics, And, while ERV-Fc was first identified in of biologists at Boston College was able to ancient virus. They searched the genomes of 50 modern species of ERV-Fc and found them embedded in the DNA Those sequences were even shared between species Now, when a biologist sees this kind of pattern, whether there's some simple evolutionary Like, did the virus infect some early mammal groups, so that this molecular fossil was In this case, the answer turned out to be that. Instead of one infection event, it looked mammal species and embedded itself in their For example, 12 of the mammals studied, including one genetically distinct sequence of ERV-Fc This suggests that there were many independent virus as it evolved while spreading around So, we actually have two different fossils they don't do anything right now. The older one comes from an infection in the between about 20 million and 16 million years And the younger one we got from the common about 16 million and 9 million years ago. As for how widespread this pandemic was, it's except Antarctica and Australia, which were And this may explain why no Australian marsupials devils, were found to have any of that virus So, those are some of the things that we can But there are other things that we just can't, incomplete. After all, there are probably species that And others were probably infected, but the And some lineages that might have carried So, we're missing pieces of the puzzle, spread a mystery. But, by using that method known as the molecular virus strains across mammal species, researchers 33 million years ago. And from there, it spread around the world While we don't know what species the virus jumping from group to group pretty quickly. There's evidence of at least 26 independent And some of these events look pretty weird, closely related species. For example, the sequence of this virus found rodents and rabbits. Now, this doesn't mean a dolphin caught versa. Although I personally would love to know what Like I said, the fossil record of this virus some steps there. All we have to go on is what we know about by one species preying or scavenging on another. Beyond that, we just don't know. But one of the reasons that the virus was have been its ability to swap genes with other viruses, over the course of the outbreak. This is known as viral recombination, and the same animal at the same time. This lets them splice elements of their genomes cell. And it happens naturally all the time. In fact, it looks like this is probably what causes COVID-19 - to spread so successfully. There's good evidence that most of this bats, but a bit of the protein that helps to another one found in a pangolin. We still don't know what host animal was Now, recombination can also happen when a already embedded some of their sequences in And researchers have found evidence of multiple So it might've gotten the genes that helped and other strains. This seems even more likely because one of helped the ancient virus enter its target Which sounds...familiar. But what kind of virus was ERV-Fc? And how deadly was it? Well, we do know that the virus infected mammals, became embedded in their genomes. And we can look at its closest living viral infection it might have caused. Based on its genetic structure, ERV-Fc is Today, this group includes the Murine leukemia cats. And one of the most common effects of this of cancer in their hosts. So, it's possible that the ERV-Fc virus But because we don't know what kinds of was likely to have caused leukemias or some And we might never know. As the genomes of more species are sequenced, viral fossils will only improve. Because, ERV-Fc isn't the only viral fossil There are mannny others in the human genome, And without the record in our genome, we'd happened. And these ancient remnants don't just help They show us that viruses have jumped between do. And they also help us understand, and predict, Which, I think we can all agree, is pretty From one mammal millions of years ago, to us that pandemics are part of the history And, whether we like it or not, they'll Now, while ERV-Fc is a viral fossil, there's infecting us - find out more in our episode, of Years". Also - I just sanitized my hands - high fives Jake Hart, Annie &amp; Eric Higgins, John Davison Become an Eonite by supporting us at patreon.com/eons. Eonites get fun perks like submitting a joke like this one. Which I have not seen before so Ok this is from Bethie Kennedy. What is a dinosaur's least favorite reindeer? Comet! That feels like too soon to me Is that too soon? And as always thanks for joining me in the Subscribe at youtube.com/eons for more adventures in deep time