Many of us have grown reading his tales on Tales of premature burials, of ghastly cats and the dead is never clear. But when you look deeper into the life and emerges, beyond the traditional image of the for death. Poe's life was not easy, in many ways: tragic. And his path crossed the Grim Reaper's many But in today's Biographics we are going The athletic military man, the rebellious of detective fiction. And to satisfy those with morbid fantasies, his death. Thou Art the Man 1809, in Boston, from David and Elizabeth, Edgar's life had barely started when he On the 20th of December 1811 Elizabeth died both highly prevalent in the US at that time. David died within a few days of his wife, According to one account David was performing company, when he also died of an illness. A different account tells us that by the time a broken one: David had left the household, Six days after his mother's death the orphaned Edgar was fostered into the home His sister, Rosalie, was taken in by the Mackenzie Henry remained with the grandparents in Baltimore. John and Frances Allan were a childless couple they considered him to be their son. Edgar called them "Pa" and "Ma". John was a wealthy merchant, a self-made man While Edgar's relationship with Frances John would frequently clash. On the 7th of January 1812 Edgar was baptised The Allan family with Edgar in tow later moved During these years the young Edgar learned The Allans returned to America in 1820 and by one William Burke. Not the body snatcher and murderer of Burke But still, nice coincidence. Like if Stephen King had graduated from Ed Poe was a very active and athletic teenager, brooding intellectual. In the summer of 1824 he became famous for a heavy tide. That's almost three times the swimming segment [Caption: Take that, King and Lovecraft!] Apparently schoolmaster Burke followed him Maybe that's what kept Edgar going - being is a powerful motivator. But it wasn't him, just a name sake. Later that year, Edgar authored his first "Last night, with many cares &amp; toils oppres'd, Which can be paraphrased as Never Bet the Devil your Head of Virginia, Charlottesville. But his studies there were short-lived. The wealthy John Allan had no intention to the freshman had to subsidise his expenses Edgar accumulated $2,000 of gambling debts. That's more than $50,000 in today's money. John Allan refused to pay, leading to a rift occur again in the future. That year, Edgar couldn't really catch a During Christmas holidays he was looking forward and prospective fiancee, But Elmira's parents and solid businessman Alexander Shelton. Yeah, we get it, but could he swim seven miles It is understandable if in March 1827 Edgar older brother Henry in Baltimore. Still in need of steady income, in May Poe A. Perry. Private 'Perry' did well in the Army and regiment in less than two years. Not only that. He also found time to write his first book published with the pseudonym The booklet sold about 50 copies. If you come across a copy of 'Tamerlan' you could auction it for a nice $172,000. On the 28th of February 1829, Frances Allan, just like Edgar's biological mother. In the following years Edgar's behaviour a consequence of Ma's death. Initially Poe seemed to like an Army life: academy, looking forward to a promotion from He entered the academy in the summer of 1830, best to get kicked out. A once talented cadet, Poe racked up 110 offenses He was court-martialed and tried at the beginning What was the cause for his rebellion? Again, it all came from his relationship with 'Pa' had remarried, perhaps too quickly, Moreover, Edgar had discovered that John had The feud was embittered by a letter written was seldom sober. Edgar wanted to leave West Point to pursue authorisation for a voluntary discharge. When John, now cold and distant, refused, He succeeded, and was kicked out from the from 100 cadets to fund his next book of poems, "Poems" blow to Edgar, as it claimed the life of his Edgar's writing career started to pick up found in a bottle" won a $50 prize from The prize was very welcome, John had closed Second wife Louisa did not approve of Edgar, likely to inherit Allan's wealth. In 1834 John fell ill. When Edgar heard the news, he tried to reunite They had not seen each other since West Point. Edgar rushed to Richmond, overcame Louisa's the now terminal 'Pa'. Thomas Ellis, John's business partner described "With what little strength was left in him, Did they hug? Oh no: strike him if he came within his reach!" It was the last time they ever met. John Allan died on March 27, 1834 and his Bridal Ballad career took off. Rather: he was always employed, but he had Following his Ma's death in 1829, Edgar Virginia Clemm, 13 years his junior. Virginia was the daughter of Maria, who was So she was a first-degree relative of Edgar's family. This relationship was initially an innocent for Edgar and a girl called Mary Devereaux, By 1835, when Poe was 26 and Virginia only else. Despite Virginia's relatives' best attempts, married in secret, celebrating a public wedding Edgar even took in his aunt-and-mother-in-law He nicknamed her 'Muddy' for some reason her as such in later poem. Fun fact: after Poe's death, Maria was completely - among the donors: Charles Dickens! [Caption: Fun fact: a fun fact involving death Going back to Edgar and Virginia, a marriage acceptable by today's standards, and even But some authors claim that Edgar's and platonic. The theory is that after the death of both transferred his feelings of filial love to You can draw a parallel with Poe's work of April 1835. In this story, an unnamed narrator regards affection ... my friend Morella" death and issues of identity. She dies in childbirth and the protagonist ten years. As she grows old, she is uncannily alike her When the girl turns ten, the father agrees When he chooses the name 'Morella', the The tale concludes: and I laughed with a long and bitter laugh where I laid the second. - Morella" of resurrection and identity beyond death. And consider this: the narrator and Morella and Virginia. And then here is a transfer of identity from more Freudian nightmares that I can handle Morella and the husband in the tale had a How was Edgar's and Virginia's? Apparently, it was successful, despite lack Virginia had a deep adoration towards Poe Edgar, on the other hand, had started flirting exchanging letters there is no proof of a Frances was being unsuccessfully courted by keep an eye on him. These letters were enough to enrage another Poe. Her reaction caused a scandal, as she alleged She even spread rumours that Poe was Virginia was unconcerned with Poe's flirtations, health. The Man that Was Used Up workaholic, moving frequently across East He did not neglect his creative writing, though, of Arthur Gordon Pym in 1838. In the following two years Poe published two short stories 'Tales of the Grotesque and 'The Conchologist's First Book', which One of the two sold out in just two months. Guess which? [Countdown on screen: 5 ... 4 ... 3... 2 ... 1] It was the shellfish manual. I am not going to comment on the taste of was Poe's only commercial success in his But he never made a dime from royalties. In 1841 Poe took a position as editor for a platform for his own short stories. Poe grew the circulation of the magazine from Poe even convinced Charles Dickens to write But in May, Poe left the magazine, handing Remember him? Poe wrote to a friend: the namby-pamby character of the Magazine the labour which I was forced to bestow" ill to tuberculosis, some say as a consequence Her health worsened, but Poe did not stop In 1843 Poe's tale 'The Gold-Bug," won It was followed by a theatrical production deserved public attention. He embarked on a tour of sold-out poetry lectures, the Evening Mirror. It was this paper that in January 1845 published It became an immediate, nation-wide hit. What princely sum did Poe earn from this masterpiece? Fifteen dollars. $325 in today's money. In February Poe took control and ownership help him financially. If anything, he accumulated even more debt, year. Things started to pick up thanks to royalties scene, but life giveth and life taketh away: 1846 she was bedridden. She told a friend: to be as happy as possible and make Edgar On the 30th of January 1847, Virginia Poe On her deathbed, it is claimed that Virginia Poe's love for Virginia was consuming, as For almost two years he visited her grave What future lay ahead of Edgar Allan Poe now Let's pause the man's life for a while, Grotesque and Arabesque and a father of the modern short story. He composed his tales following two main rules: in one sitting; each word should contribute His published work came at the apex of the influence in Europe, where he was idolised the French "Poetes maudits". Beyond horror, his body of work encompasses not easy to define. Take the short story "The Duc De L'Omelette": when a delicacy is improperly served to him. He wakes up in a Hell and starts plotting He challenges Satan to a duel, but alas the The next best thing is a nice game of 21, Satan cannot refuse a game of cards: challenge The Duc, a skilled gambler, wins the game, In four pages Poe defines two characters, lore along the way and crosses three genres: aristocracy. Another cross-over of styles he achieved with There is some horror also here, with a killing But, most of all, the tale is the first Detective Poe established the archetypes of the genre and The Purloined Letter : a brilliant amateur and deduction; a friend who acts as a narrator; help. It's Sherlock Holmes, more than 40 years The same collection "Tales by EA Poe", This adventure-slash-detective romp tells Legrand and a freed slave, Jupiter, who decipher The story is best remembered for Legrand's and for the depiction of Jupiter: to modern But assigning an important speaking role and in 1840s America was a rather progressive Bombast to reviews of other authors. As a literary critic, Poe celebrated the works among the classics of American literature. But he was known and feared for how he destroyed This earned him the nickname of Tackling the poems of one William W. Lord, "the only remarkable things about Mr. Lord's ignorance, impudence, platitude, stupidity [Caption: Stupidity and Bombast] good Lord deliver us!" Ouch. Novelists are no luckier. Theodore S. Fay's 1835 work 'Norman Leslie' "There is not a single page of Norman Leslie at least two or three gross errors in Grammar, against common-sense." The one who gets the full tomahawk treatment "The book before us is too purely imbecile have no hesitation ... in exposing fully before pages of utter folly, bombast, and inanity" Poe was not done yet: upon our national literature ... (works) of inanity, and bombast" Poe also attacked fellow journalists, editors The editor of the Boston Miscellany, H.T. Tuckermann, was an While critic Rufus W. Griswold was dismissed "toady, destined to sink into oblivion" We'll meet him again. The Conqueror Worm heavy drinker, but actually it was only after And even then, he never drank in huge quantities. The problem was that even a small quantity In November of 1848 Poe was courting poetess Mrs. Whitman was so concerned about his reputation from alcohol as a condition for marriage. Poe failed to meet the request and Sarah called In the summer of 1849 Poe was on a lecture girlfriend Elmira, the one who had dumped Elmira was now a widow and the two rekindled In August, Elmira accepted Edgar's proposal. And Poe must have been dead serious about of Temperance, a sort of Alcoholic Anonymous Everything was working out fine. Then, the chain of events started, one that On the 26th of September 1849, Poe visited He was due to leave Richmond, Virginia to job. Carter advised Poe to postpone his trip by On the 27th of September 1849, Poe left Richmond For the following 6 days, he just vanished. [Screen fades to black, a caption appears October, 1849] outside the pub 'Gunner's Hall' came The man was visibly ill, in a state of confusion The man introduced himself as Edgar Allan Poe asked Walker to contact one Joseph Snodgrass, Snodgrass took Poe to a hospital, where was Moran noted down his patient's symptoms: for somebody called Moran also asked Poe where he had left his On the 7th of October 1849, Edgar Allan Poe The reported cause of death was phrenitis, His mother-in-law, in hearing that Poe had and found out that she had also died. One of the early reported causes of Poe's This unverified rumour was spread by Poe's Other possible causes include tuberculosis, latter may be consistent with Catterina's Author Matthew Pearl offered another explanation: This is consistent with the symptoms. Plus, when Poe's body was displaced to another noticed a small clump rolling inside Poe's This could have been a calcified tumour. Other theories involve violent crime: Poe as claimed in 1867 by biographer E. Oakes But Poe's body did not display any sign Another crime theory involves 'cooping'. This was a common type of electoral fraud Gangs of thugs would abduct and 'coop up' a disguise so they could vote several times The victims were threatened with violence Intriguing theory, mentioned for the first Points in favour: a local election Poe was wearing somebody else's clothes Argus published warnings against cooping on Now, we are not Dupins, but we have done some We searched the enigmatic name 'Reynolds' that in September there were two people called just outside Baltimore. Could they be involved in the local Baltimore Was this a name that Poe heard, or read, while We also spoke with an oncology surgeon, formerly whom we will call "Dr M". Dr M confirmed that tumoural masses can calcify He offered an additional explanation for the trauma. Not only it can cause death, but it can also the jaw to fracture and detach, free to rattle A blunt trauma at the back of the head would body did not display any sign of violence. There are many more theories, so I am going Gun to the head, I would go with cooping plus Why don't you tell us your theory in the Nevermore Poe's appeared on the New York Tribune, We don't know if Poe's death was an assassination, While praising Poe's work, 'Ludwig' that the writer had little to no friends and Ludwig would publish yet more articles praising exaggerating or inventing embarrassing details. These articles were now signed with his real Rufus W. Griswold. The irony is that Griswold was Poe's executor, his works for a nice profit, all the while alcoholic still surviving today. I hope you have learned something new about We had to skip tons of stuff but if you want Edgar Allan Poe Society of Baltimore, www.eapoe.org, his full works. And if we hear somebody repeating one of Griswold's just say