Have you ever heard of neuroplasticity? can actually change the structure of our brain. you change how you feel. I've been learning And I do recognize that yes, sometimes life source of stress is actually my own head and if we practice thinking positive thoughts and bit easier next time to think up these positive think that's pretty cool. So I've been thinking simplifying my life has helped me to change the video, I want to share with you 10 unhelpful and simpler life. And some of these have been while others are definitely still work in for me to change and let go and declutter it. Before we begin, I quickly want to thank video. Skillshare is an online learning platform anything. And I've been taking their classes for my channel, I've taken classes on digital copy. But also plant care, journaling, self-care, classes on things like making your own clothing, editing, coding, e-commerce. All ranging from are all taught by people who are experts in their And ever since I've been using Skillshare, for me to keep learning new skills. For example if then you can take Justin Bridge's class called class as well back when I first got my new camera. aperture. It was such a helpful class and within this camera and didn't know what to do with it, to use it for my work. If you also enjoy learning new or just trying out different hobbies and try. And you can even do that for free, because description box can get a one- month free trial. whole month to see how you like it. Huge thank and supporting the channel. And let's begin with kind of hot in this sweater. I haven't talked that It's not really woken up yet. So the first mindset this idea that I'm only as good as my output. And to be like on every day, all year around. Always productive. So this is kind of how I used to think subconsciously. I didn't really believe that a their self-worth is determined by how productive when you really think about you know how I thought was the underlying thought. And I think a lot of live in. But I've also just always kind of been striving to get really good grades and impress do everything right and do everything well. And feel like on a day where you're just really having took it easy, then that was a lost day. Or that than not, I would just drink more coffee, push No. My selfworth is not tied to my productivity human beings. We're allowed to have off days. off years if that's what it takes, if that's all have challenges. We are not perfect. Things happen to where someone is just not as productive output. So I now do realize full well that I absolutely nothing. If I sit on my butt all day same worth as I have when I am being productive or for not being productive or for being lazy, which take it to heart that you are not your output. you have value and worth even if you do nothing and minimalism was a really big one here, is this was with a lot lot of things. For example makeup. I had eight different colors lipsticks. Jewelry. Just having the need to always have a me see that if you want to have a lot of options, the reality of it. And the downside to that is things will be. And the more complicated keep everything organized and clean. You may lose you don't know what to wear, because you have all speak to you. So you feel like you need to go out done that. And it has been so nice to now have decision fatigue. It's nice for my home, no more purchases. So really in most cases, I now really having many many options. And a large part of it that is where decluttering has really helped me and in the beginning that was was really scary. need this kind of particular thing one day? What a black fake leather bag? You know. But if you haven't needed any of the things that I let go of. something really specific and I couldn't just use of always wanting to be prepared for any kind of just let go, because you can trust that when a with it. Or you may be able to borrow it, or worst had to. So this realization that we don't need a for every possible scenario really helped to three is a really big one. The mindset that I need one of the things that just naturally helps with I'm now 36, you just start to care less. I anymore if someone doesn't like me. And it is with just age. And I also think that minimalism well. Because when you start to get rid of all of strip down your life to what you really find get to know yourself better in that process. And you are what you find important, and you start to Someone else doesn't, then yeah that's fine. remember who said this, but she said it's okay to struck a chord with me. If you have maybe like a and you kind of feel like you were not the bad guy it, or maybe even tell people the story, you a little bit hard for me to like be like no, but You know what happened. And if someone else has a have our own right to experience how we experience like yeah, it's sad and it's tough, but it's same body as I did when I was 20. Here's a quick you don't want to hear this, that is perfectly always use chapters. Or this time stamp right here Your body changes. Your body changes when you hit now so like ever since I hit 35. And it is not the I don't really know if I can say that this And it just dawned on me like hey, I'm actually body is different, because things change naturally what I'm eating and how much exercise and movement was 20, when I could basically eat anything. It And now it is something that I have to really is that even though my weight has changed, and I now feel so much more confident in my body, and 20, I was actually really insecure. So while I do things, and getting good exercise, which is for so than a physical health thing, but you know, it is this something that I would want to keep up for I'm not going to do it. It's a whole different you're working on your body, because it's not good doing the same things, or roughly the same things, that's where I'm at right now. I can honestly say needs to stay the same for the rest of my life. Number five of the mindsets that I let go on order not to be lonely. I have always been someone And people that have been in my life for a very for many many years, sometimes more than 20 years. and appreciate. But I've never had a large social don't really know each other. So I don't have that or you go on vacation with a friend group. Things one-on-one connections. And that's basically how and most of my family I'm not really in touch a party, it's not like I could invite 30 or many people. And that used to always make me a bit lonely. Because you see these things on TV and this is a mindset that I purposefully decluttered isn't true. I am blessed with lots of deep great it. And I'm not alone or lonely at all. It's just but it is very deep. If you know what I mean. And I used to be that kind of person who when I for numbers in my phone for years. Because that way is not very short. Because you're keeping even if you're not really in touch with those these people have been in my phone for 3 years, them out. I'm fine with a short list of people in my life. And actually like love and care for these ways like that. All right, this next one is also a is a work in progress for me still. And it is the bit of anxiety around money, but also I really the scarcity mindset is one where you really focus that there won't be enough. And the opposite of where you really believe that things like money like run out. Or well, obviously you will run out there's an abundance. And it's not really focused this feeling of trusting and having faith that I had an older brother older sister um and we had they had to work really hard to make ends meet. So really they worked very hard to make sure that a lot of stress around money when I was growing always worrying about, if I wanted something, like like I was worried for our finances when I was least played a role in for me just kind of always money for like my retirement or emergencies. on gratitude and on letting go of control and Just being like hey, there is enough. Things will lot. It has completely changed how I think about this now. And what I am trying to do now with this like that as well. So even if I have a lot to do I have no time, I have all these things to do. I I have all the time today. And it just feels than you're always rushing, because you feel like like I have all the time in the world. Things will fine. And it's a a much better way of thinking mindset that my house always needs to be perfectly being a little bit of a control freak. Wanting a lot of this had to do for me anyway with letting not striving for keeping your house perfectly if you want your house to always be perfectly Because as soon as you dust something, like uh the just how cleaning goes unfortunately. So you know, There's always going to be something that needs house needs to be clean enough to be healthy, notice that I feel better when my house is clean That's not me bragging. It's just that we don't don't have any stuff to mess it up. And we don't it a lot easier. We really don't have mess, ever. the bathroom, you know everything. And to get to something than I would ideally like. we first moved into this place. It really sparked because we now own this apartment. And it made me perfect. And now I relax into it a lot more again. It is completely fine if something needs cleaning, do it next weekend. You know? That's so fine. And Number eight is the mindset that if I start I think, when you look at this list, it probably used to be. And that I guess maybe I still am a many many things. And it keeps you from trying like if I start this new hobby, if I explore this get good at it. I need to see improvements. I need life, I can't ever give it up. And obviously, that about this now, is I love half-assing things. With I learn a bit. I forget sometimes. Maybe I'll good at it, maybe not. But the point is that I don't expect myself to stick with it necessarily. scratching my foot, cuz I have an itch. There is tenacity and persistence and things. But I already my work. So I don't expect myself to do that with I'm getting like well, good no. I'm not getting it's because I'm half-assing it. I'm just allowing it is really nice. If you're like a little bit just try half-assing something. It's really enjoy something and it really fits you, then you Because you enjoy it. And you will get better at you. And that is perfectly fine. And if some some I've moved on to other things, that's perfectly that is that I always need to see improvements in and one reason only. It is that I enjoy it. get rid of stagnant energy, built up frustrations, inspiration. When I'm just you know sitting on me to get back in there. It helps me to feel good. natural talent. Like I think I can safely say that it. For example let's take yoga. When I first muscles. And I felt like I needed to improve, the beginning. And when that Improvement didn't I got very frustrated with myself. I was like I a split or something. Honestly, I still can't even that used to bug me. But now I really find that as it is perfectly fine. And with my fitness, I never in a straight line. There's not a linear sometimes there's progress and sometimes there's Regression? Where you like find that oh actually because you haven't done that particular thing in running again from the ground. And so there's just be completely okay with that. And number 10 don't matter so much. And I would be lying if decluttered. Because this is 100% a work in to find the balance there. So what I used to think And all that mattered was what I got done in challenge for me is just in finding a balance therefore want to do, like my job, and taking care enough walks, enough social stuff. All the things is difficult. Sometimes I have deadlines and I those deadlines. To get the video done in time. Or that's a bad thing, as long as you are m.indful what I'm doing to myself. How hard I'm pushing just say you know what, there's not going to be something else. And when to be like okay, I notice today, it will help my week or something. There's What is important for you to feel good. What helps you to calm down when you're feeling feeling to recharge your batteries. That is important. get empty. And you can't pour from an empty cup. bit, it comes from a place of excitement for my not caring about my own needs or feeling like they comes from a much more positive place. And I think helps when you put it on. All right, so we've come sticking around all the way till the end, I really Is there any one mindset that you have decluttered that you're actively working on decluttering each other in the comments. So I would love to a lovely cup of tea, and then I'm going to film like to have access to more videos from me, and then feel free to check out Patreon. It is a $5 a month. Of course, you can also cancel again that are already up on there, which I think is new videos every month. And this is a great way from patreon helps me to yeah keep doing this want to sign up. And also, don't forget to check link in the description box. And conversations down below. Have a wonderful day So I've been really good at taking care of So who knew? All it needs is get better. I wasn't really taking but I've gotten a lot better. It is thriving