There's a reason why rock stars are synonymous idols really lived that life. Their exploits became the stuff of legend in partying is the temptation to party too Here are some rockers who partied way too British rocker Billy Idol took punk mainstream Well, he had a punk background and his pop-rock But he really embodied the quintessential constant sneer, and torn up shirts. Idol may have dressed like a young punk, but While the likes of Led Zeppelin and The Who destroyed the penthouse suite of a hotel in &quot;No way.&quot; He took residence in the palatial quarters to leave. The entire time was a non-stop party full It got so bad that the hotel's management So, they were forced to call in the local dart and carried him out. When it was all said and done, Idol received 250 thousand dollars. &quot;NO WAY!&quot; Ozzy Osbourne is responsible for some of the but most of them happen to be true. For example, he really did take a bite out so drunk and annoyed during a record label dove. And that's just what Ozzy does at work. When he was enjoying his personal time during his opening act, he performed some especially According to Motley Crue memoir The Dirt of the same name, the band members and Ozzy Florida. After asking for some cocaine and not receiving and snorted a line of ants. One gross act deserves another, and for Osbourne's he urinated all over the pool deck. It gets worse. Osbourne then went back down to the ground In the end, it was just one more infamous &quot;It was fun at the time, but then we all sort of thought it isn't a good idea anymore.&quot; &quot;So you don't have a more stable life now?&quot; &quot;No.&quot; The Who's Keith Moon is one of the greatest Yet Moon is arguably more memorable for another made &quot;trashing a hotel room&quot; a quintessential Moon celebrated his 21st birthday in 1967 By the time he hit the stage that night, he'd started. Back at the local Holiday Inn, The Who threw Moon started a food fight, and then, while he tripped and knocked out half of a tooth. He was so drunk that the emergency dentist surgery. Meanwhile, the party had descended into a damages in the tens of thousands. Moon also enjoyed personally ruining smaller It was a tour habit of the drummer's to use blow up bathroom toilets. That is...when he wasn't busy blowing up his In 1978, and after a few hospitalizations, A doctor prescribed him medication to help In a sad twist, Moon overdosed on the drug He was only 32 years old. Led Zeppelin generated a huge sound out of instruments. A big part of Zep's extremely influential, drum work of John &quot;Bonzo&quot; Bonham, who charged like &quot;Immigrant Song&quot; and &quot;Rock and Roll.&quot; Bonham was just as hard-charging in some of when it came to alcohol. Like Keith Moon and many of music's other live the life of a rock drummer and still &quot;Control control control! In control.&quot; Bonham was a serious drinker, and not just In late September 1980, Led Zeppelin convened While working, Bonham helped himself to quadruple The drummer imbibed somewhere in the area blacked out. Bonham was so intoxicated that when his body he couldn't wake up. Bonham choked on his own vomit and passed For decades, the Playboy Mansion was literally Playboy founder Hugh Hefner lived in the sprawling High-profile guests came around most every song. It was essentially a fancy flophouse, a comfortable without judgement and freely engage in whatever And yet the legendary Dave Navarro, guitarist Peppers, found some things that were too much &quot;anything goes&quot; policy. In 2004, the guitarist published Don't Try recounting his exploits from 1998 to 1999. In the book, Navarro wrote about a visit with When the women started undressing, Navarro of heroin. With the blood that ran back into the syringe, While Navarro notes that he &quot;cleaned it off,&quot; banned -- from the mansion. Which is pretty rough...because once anyone Mansion, they cling on to it for dear life. "Uhhh, why don't I just keep him here for Most tales of rock n' roll debauchery end not in a destroyed hotel room. However, the events of December 8th, 1984, and certainly the worst in the life of hard partying got so intense that it left a body Crue lead singer Vince Neil had been drinking uninterrupted. Late on the night of December 8th, he decided booze. However, he was already very intoxicated, for the ride. While driving down a winding road, Neil lost car. While all parties were injured, Razzle got dead on arrival and Neil was arrested for While the intoxicant of choice for Motley Sixx enjoyed harder pursuits. In 1983, Sixx crashed his Porsche and damaged He got really into the painkillers doctors for long. Sixx wrote in Motley Crue's memoir The Dirt, &quot;Heroin began to consume me, first to kill the pain of life, which is the pain of not By 1986, Sixx's heroin use was an open secret put him in a rehab center...which he bailed On December 23rd, 1987, Sixx enjoyed a night Megadeth, and Ratt before retiring to a room injected by his drug dealer with a lethal Yes...lethal. Sixx lost consciousness, and a friend called After being actually, clinically dead for to two adrenaline injections administered Rod Stewart apparently faced a conundrum during He wanted to keep his signature, just-raspy-enough to enjoy the spoils of the success that his In other words, how could Rod Stewart both a small mountain of cocaine during the after-party? If he took it the old fashioned way, snorting damage nasal passages, and in turn, his throat, Fortunately for Stewart, he devised other "And I for one still don't understand the chemistry of it. And I never will, for as long as I live.&quot; Stewart wrote in Rod: The Autobiography, &quot;We started buying anti-cold capsules from of the capsules, replacing their contents Then that pill would go up...well, where most According to Stewart, &quot;They would dissolve effortlessly into the That's right -- Rod Stewart made and used Although this method worked for Stewart, his for many people. &quot;You know cuz sometimes you have it, sometimes it escapes Some people never find it in their entire lives.&quot; Maybe the most infamous hard partying hard modern medicine by still being alive despite Chasing a high has nearly killed the Rolling He got heavy into heroin in the early '70s, poisoned with strychnine-laced heroin. &quot;I was totally comatose, but I was totally I could listen to everyone, and they were [...] I was thinking, 'I'm not dead!'&quot; Now, it's hard to pinpoint the craziest thing time he inhaled his father's ashes up his Richards told the NME, &quot;I snorted my father. He was cremated and I couldn't resist grinding [...] It went down pretty well, and I'm still While we'll never know the spiritual benefits one interesting side effect. &quot;Well, it got me off.&quot; Most of the stories about Guns n' Roses concern and lead guitarist Slash. But plugging away alongside them for years, n' roll legend, was Duff McKagan. The bassist celebrated and dealt with the of alcohol and cocaine. McKagan routinely consumed a half-gallon of than 40 shots of the stuff. At one point, McKagan realized that drinking good for his health, so he traded out spirits In the long run, that wasn't so good for him burst. Doctors told him that if he were to have just McKagan told The Independent, &quot;My mom had Parkinson's and I saw her come [...] That turned me around.&quot; &quot;And that was like all the rehab I needed.&quot; Due to their love of illicit substances, particularly and Joe Perry earned the nickname the Toxic The cred to back up that nickname was confirmed rock star of all time. Tyler told Rolling Stone in 1990 that &quot;Jerry Garcia says that we were the druggiest [...] So that gives you some idea of how f---ed Tyler claims that he and some of his bandmates that they didn't have the energy to indulge And that's something he regretted. Tyler said, &quot;I'm still bummed out I didn't get all the [...] We were more interested in the finer blends of cocaine. Which, by the way, was laced with opium.&quot; At some point during his journey to sobriety, and had some seriously profound thoughts. &quot;That is E to the Z ooh tweedly-dee-sgusting!&quot; &quot;You haven't heard me sing diddley-ding yet.&quot; Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Grunge videos about rock stars Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the