- This war was sold to the Americans - The propaganda campaign for me, it was a real deception. - I don't exclude it at all - It was a vast fraud, September 11th. In the ruins of New York, But this promise is quickly betrayed. George Bush changes enemy. Osama bin Laden is replaced This about-face is the fruit with catastrophic consequences It all started less than 6 hours after the attack. At the Pentagon also hit, the Secretary of Defense, And he gives his instructions. Stephen Cambone, one of his advisors, Rumsfeld's words are explicit. On the evening of this tragic day, President Bush addresses - Today, our fellow citizens, our freedom has been attacked. We will not make a difference between and those who shelter them. This essential precision was inspired Richard Pearl. On the afternoon of September 11, the advisor at the Pentagon calls - I was on the phone with David Frum &quot;Whatever the President says, he must announce that we consider states that harbor terrorists." A strategic break with politics - This meant that if we attacked we could never prevail. And as long as states led, equipped, financed terrorist organizations, we could never defeat them. An ambitious program Stated goal of a group The neoconservatives. Dick Cheney, Donald Rumsfeld, Paul Wolfowitz, Douglas Feith, These are the advisors Joe Wilson, career diplomat, - They came to power and particularly and in that of the Secretary of Defense. The neoconservatives. They have links with the oil world, ideologues champions of hegemony Saddam Hussein, provocateur - On the evening of September 11, the president said: Someone replied: And the president said: - Two days after the attacks against during a meeting at Camp David, Mr. Paul Wolfowitz &quot;Iraq and Saddam Hussein, It therefore took only 48 hours for Change the regime in Baghdad, a simpler goal than destroying On September 19, the partisans meet at the ministry - They started by asking a question: &quot;How much longer And their response was: "Not much longer." An Iraqi takes part Ahmad Chalabi, Chalabi lives in exile and he will play a major role But we will come back to that. In the aftermath of the President Bush rises The moment is historic. The nation is united by patriotism. Bush names the culprits. Osama bin Laden, Al-Qaeda, the Taliban who rule in Afghanistan. - Our enemy is a network and all governments Not a word about Iraq, but he warns. - Our war against terrorism but don't stop there... Tony Blair, the British Prime Minister, It is the sign of an unwavering alliance Quickly, the Taliban are driven out Osama bin Laden disappears. In Washington, Bush seems in a hurry - Afghanistan is just the beginning. If you protect from terrorists, If you finance terrorists, I can't be clearer than that. If they develop weapons to terrorize entire nations, They will have to be held accountable. Barely has the president finished his Rumsfeld, go see General Tommy Franks Franks controls a huge area of Africa But Rumsfeld has something else on his mind: Iraq. He orders General Franks Iraq: an easy target. Since his invasion of Kuwait the country is under international supervision. Despite his rout and the terrible Saddam Hussein remained in power. In 1998, he even chased away the inspectors For neoconservatives, he is the devil. - Saddam was a dangerous man, dangerous for his fellow citizens Joe Wilson knows Iraq well. In 1991, in Baghdad, he was to meet Saddam Hussein. - Saddam had been brought to heel. He had been at the head but he had been relegated to the rank Just over 100 days America needs revenge. The neoconservatives Richard Pearl publishes a real The same day, Bush receives Franks In front of journalists, the two men - In Afghanistan, the country is safe, the country is stable. - We are going to end the network It will take as long as it takes. But privately, Bush confirms This change of priority worries confides in Bob Graham, senator from Florida, head of the - After a report the general asked me And the first thing he said to me: "We no longer do I was very surprised. and he told me that units as the special forces were to prepare for a war in Iraq. This is the heaviest decision The fight against terrorism for the benefit of a conventional war At the beginning of 2002, It remains to convince public opinion of the which seems very foreign to tragedy Andrew Bacevich, former army colonel - Once the decision has been made the political necessity was to sell - They prepared an operation to sell the war at the moment that the administration to protect the United States - And weapons of mass destruction are as the best selling point. "WMD", weapons Gas, poisons, nuclear. For months, this arsenal of death will be The stakes of a showdown and those who want to avoid it. - I participated in secret meetings and military intelligence, and all the agencies were had several programs for In reality, this beautiful For years, American intelligence - We spend billions of dollars, truly billions every year, for electronic espionage, satellites that take photos, and retrieve all kinds of information. And guess what? Not a single ADM site The colossus of electronic espionage, the NSA, the national security agency, William Binney, former boss was one of those who scanned Iraq. The NSA has not collected a single which would indicate that Iraq or that he still had some. Nothing suprising. Saddam Hussein's arsenal was destroyed Before September 11, senior American officials - He has not developed his abilities in He is incapable of threatening his neighbors. - We are able Its military forces Since the end of the dictator is planned, the official tone must change, and Washington presents Saddam Hussein - It's a diet that has something Such regimes and their allies - No terrorist state presents for the safety of its people than the regime of Saddam Hussein in Iraq. - To be clear, there is no doubt, that Saddam Hussein has an arsenal WMD which will be necessary To help them, the neoconservatives He and other opponents the Iraqi National Congress. - All these exiles had a common interest, that of being ex-exiles. They wanted to take power in Iraq, and they understood was to be in the vans who would have gotten rid of them Neglected by Bill Clinton, Chalabi allied himself with the worst enemies The CNI has managed to develop with the neoconservatives, but also in the Republican Party And this to obtain support In January 2001, luck smiled - When Bush took power, everyone who supported us After September 11, the collusion between turns into complicity. - The American administration to introduce them to people on weapons of mass destruction. With enthusiasm, Chalabi complies. He presents to the Americans Inexhaustible sources of revelations - The people of Chalabi's group were looking for which allowed our managers that is to say, revelations about This way we could justify Talented manipulator, Chalabi also presents and with their provocative headlines, journalists, gives credibility This mechanism of intoxication - It was clear from the start, that the institutions like the CIA or the State Department, They had no confidence in us. They called us liars, Despite everything, the Pentagon refuses to put - The idea that Chalabi had information and that he provided them to us has never been demonstrated in investigations, on the work of services before the outbreak of war. It is still necessary And to accredit Pentagon hawks The Office of Special Plans. An initiative of Paul Wolfowitz - The Office of Special Plans? It was created as an alternative to the CIA. The CIA collects this information Its analysts control them, before delivering their conclusions But the Office of Special Plans Never seen before in history Bush, Cheney and Rumsfeld end up George Tenet, head of the CIA, silences his reluctance and endorses - At one of these hearings, brought with him 3 large white folders. In these files, there were where the Iraqis were supposed to manufacture, or hide weapons of mass destruction. I asked Tenet: He has answered : &quot;We got all that I asked: &quot;Who do we have that the information provided And his response was: "0!" The lying machine will turn Exiles and the Pentagon collaborate in official creed. - By working together, these groups which became politics Fruitful cooperation In Rome, a secret service file arrives at the American embassy. He talks about a secret sale of uranium Not to be outdone, German secret services They provide the Americans Code name: &quot;Curveball&quot;. He assures that Baghdad manufactures poison For Bush, a crucial step remains The Congress. In the galaxy of power It is to him that the executive to launch the country - In August and September, the drums of war against Iraq It was obvious that the president was going to ask Simple formality But Bob Graham will try to stop - We wanted to examine the evaluation and the answer was that such What Graham is asking for is the document a summary of what all the agencies of - I was amazed to learn when our country was going to war, and we demanded - What happened was and did not want to do this evaluation because the honest answer In London, Blair comes to the aid and a "file" was published They can be implemented And Iraq is looking for uranium in Africa But in Congress, He insists, he wants proof. - The CIA did not want to make a synthesis, and they told me: And I said, "What do you mean? We don't have time to be informed before going to war? - Tenet returns to the White House and says: We will have to make a synthesis.&quot; And the White House told him: First, you have to do it While it normally takes 3-4 months. &quot;And secondly, what Vice President Dick Cheney said. Tenet will fold again Bob Kerrey, senator, former commando, - It is fair to accuse Bush and Cheney, for putting pressure on to reach a conclusion - Vice President Cheney even went and asked them: &quot;What have you This puts pressure on the services of At the beginning of October 2002, in the American Congress, a resolution authorizing war The CIA ultimately provides Classified top secret. We will have to wait until 2015 for this It is an austere text of 95 pages. Who dissects the weapons program But above all, the synthesis reflects She expresses doubts, Issued within the community To avoid these doubts the White House published at the same time, 25 embellished pages A formidable propaganda tool. - They made a very clever version If a sentence said: &quot;We believe that can They removed the maybe. In its headlines, this version which have been circulating for months. Baghdad has chemical weapons, Saddam can equip himself - The campaign to sell the war, - No doubt, the headlines than what is in the document itself. In truth, the intelligence synthesis It doesn't matter, it's the headlines Bob Graham knows it. He pleads against a vote - In making this decision, and if we believe our own and I encourage you, my friends, to read the classified version which is much more relevant We will increase the And if you don't understand, frankly my friends, - I considered that this document and this largely contributed to my decision On October 10, 2002, This is the day when the world The manipulation was successful. The war against Iraq American elected officials for leaving lies For reasons ultimately - This vote took place in October 2002, So many thought They didn't want to know too much. They just wanted to be able to &quot;The President thinks And I accept his judgment.&quot; Congressional vote is a victory and the exiles of Ahmad Chalabi, but it leaves a bitter taste The nuclear specter. The vote of Congress acquired, it remains for the hawks to ensure For that, they have a file on hand. Remember, this file from Rome, mysteriously taken out of the archives SISMI. Enzo Bianco, closely followed the story - In the secret service archives, there are thousands There is always a document that can be Someone, at the right moment, brought out and provided it to whoever could use it. The little hand is called Rocco Martino. Formerly of SISMI, French services informant, it was he who circulated among Here it is. It contains documents which evoke a sale by Niger This file on Nigerien yellowcake on the vice president's desk - When Dick Cheney saw this report regarding the Iraqis who were looking He asked CIA analysts: &quot;What do you think ?&quot; The CIA responded: "We will check. And to verify, the CIA summons - They asked me to go to Niger. In this meeting, that there was no reason because it was very unlikely And then our embassy These 2 people were the representative from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Wilson knows Niger well, He was stationed there at the beginning - When I arrived there, the first person I met He told me he had already checked Wilson returns to the United States - The volume of uranium that was mentioned, represented an increase And should have been approved by You couldn't hide it. Indeed, the Yellowcake is transported to before arriving at the port Wilson's conclusions are transmitted The vice president sticks to his record However, the Italians The documents on Nicolo Pollari, was the contact man - United States, and as later investigations established Well, the United States on the exact nature of these documents. So why the little Martino hand Did he act alone on his behalf The one who knows - I cannot reveal because I am bound by state secrecy. But we have opened an investigation. Still under cover of state secrecy, the Italian government But I can't talk about it. The law prohibits me from doing so. But this official silence does not who has been demanding for years - The fact that there is between members of the secret services who exchange information, it's not a negative thing. It becomes negative when this to build deliberately False information, which do not correspond to the interests Doubts, suspicions. For the neoconservatives, the file It feeds a fundamental fear: - The only weapon of mass destruction it's a nuclear weapon. Chemical and biological weapons Nuclear weapons are weapons Fear of the Iraqi bomb The New York Times, the daily makes headlines It evokes aluminum tubes intended to manufacture centrifuges, to enrich uranium and finally make The hawks react in bursts. Cheney at NBC. - The press talked about it. Iraq seeks to acquire tubes to make Rumsfeld at CBS. - We are sure that a tyrant has a weapon And then, it's too late. And Condoleezza Rice says a little sentence - We don't want the gun In the United States, the fakery works According to polls, nearly 80 percent of Americans or is not far from obtaining one. Finally, the Yellowcake file It will be approved - The British government has learned recently sought to acquire spoken by man this little sentence However, Bush had been warned. - When preparing the speech the CIA told the White House: &quot;You cannot use to acquire uranium in Niger.&quot; To get past the White House assigns who talked about yellowcake - Regarding the acquisition British intelligence officials, including the boss at the time, still insist today No one can say - In fact, the British case was a It was the same story told over and over again. The French government, which controls checked out the Yellowcake affair Jean-Marc de la Sabliere is then of President Jacques Chirac. - So this yellowcake thing, Nuclear experts too... Between the acquisition of natural uranium you need lots of installations, So all this seems to me A very diplomatic judgment. But Paris and the rest of the world UN: The big show. At the beginning of 2003, American power, decides to present his great manipulation Colin Powell visits the UN to against Saddam Hussein. He repeats the accusations already leveled He insists on the existence to produce biological poisons. These are the Curveball revelations. This defector who spoke Finally, he accuses Saddam of wanting He talks about aluminum tubes, who for months have been - We watched Colin Powell What a good actor!" And we gave him but only five for content. - I remember very well, I was sitting and I told him: &quot;No one in and probably not himself." - The vial that General Powell with the head of the CIA behind him, was obtained from a man He was with the services who introduced him to the Americans. And the Americans believed it, but we didn't even know him. Curveball, its real name will later admit to having invented everything Richard Perle, who so well recognizes without difficulty that many - Mobile laboratories this turned out to be completely false. There was no mobile laboratory. The aluminum tubes that could have been actually turned out to be for small caliber rocket launchers. -Did Powell lie? Why did he do it? Because the president asked him. The detour via the UN allows to appearances Just like the return who do not always find But Washington shamelessly displays - If Saddam admits he has weapons we will know that he lied to the world. If he says he doesn't have then we will provide proof France, in principle, On February 14 at the UN, Dominique de Villepin - Use of force There is an alternative to war. And on March 7, 2003, the boss of the gendarme denounces Bush's lies - After a thorough analysis, the agency concluded that the documents which formed on recent transactions, between Iraq and Niger We concluded that these allegations - We now know Our country has suffered dishonor. The shame of hearing the director of the IAEA, say before the Security Council: "It took us a day and a half. And a little research on the Internet, to establish that these documents In Paris, Jacques Chirac to any proposed resolution - I repeat, war Whatever the circumstances, France will vote no because that there is no need to wage a war, to achieve the goal that is to say the disarmament of Iraq. The Americans will do without Baradei's conclusions On the night of March 19, In three weeks, the armored columns Saddam Hussein flees. From the start of operations in Iraq, the American military launches They don't find anything. For the hawks, - You know, the intelligence agencies, These agencies work contradictory stories, facts that they cannot always The CIA, which had been so suspicious of the will be forced Especially for the worst lies. The little sentence, on African yellowcake - Maybe someone knew something but no one in the White House suspected This insistence on defending ends up being right - I understand that the American government that he had lied to the American people, and that I had to write He publishes in the New York Times and the fact that its conclusions were &quot;Given the structure of companies it would be very difficult for Niger The CIA must once again And George Tenet publishes a press release. &quot;These 16 words should not have been included It was a mistake.&quot; A skinny meaculpa At the White House, we shoot Ari Fleischer, the spokesperson The journalists offer him a cake, - We have something for you! We received the assurance And Fleischer performs his last pirouette. - But if it is, we will find it! Official investigations will denounce for misinformation about weapons But the truth is that hawks - Fraud ? Not an error, a fraud! The one who was complicit in this manipulation - Believe that an organization of exiles, with limited means with billions of dollars to gather information it is pure fiction. You will have to wait 3 years that he deceived Americans and the world. - The reason why was what we thought There were none. But I also spoke Bush sweeps away who destroyed an entire country. The shipwreck. In Iraq, the easy invasion - The sinking has begun The United States lost and they became - Anarchy, chaos, violence in Iraq of what Bush and Cheney Iraq quickly shattered, dislocated A planned dismantling. - The most convincing argument was and Israel's security in the Middle East, the nations around Israel, must be dismembered into States So in the case of Iraq, a Kurdistan, a Shiistan and a Sunnistan. This objective was openly proclaimed In this signed document A text that accuses Baghdad &quot;Israel can change its environment The effort must be focused on eliminating an important objective in itself, but also a way to fail Today, the Iraqi chaos Entire provinces escape Terrorist groups reign supreme there the leader of Daesh, - The United States bears a heavy Not because the United States but because he was born of this immensely stupid war. American behavior the occupation which continued all this created ISIS. The violence left hundreds killed, wounded, maimed, and she put on the roads - You have hundreds of thousands and no one asks why. What caused this terrible It's not an earthquake or a hurricane, but it is the invasion of a country, which was more or less intact Iraqi manipulation An addition of 3000 billion dollars. This public money came to enrich - Peace is not good for business. War is good for business. So yes, money plays a big role. - The United States meets again And this permanent war benefits They make a lot of money Profit rarely mentioned, passed over in silence. Just like the Americans who died in Iraq, including son Andrew Bacevich, An anonymous section of the cemetery - I think that one of the aspects is the speed at which Americans There seems to be a refusal to admit and - A deception of this magnitude with the fundamental principles A failure, the result of manipulation, which started for a long time in their own institutions. The one who wanted the end of Saddam Hussein and he was cast aside. - An emissary of President Bush told me: &quot;If you object we will act against you I knew that Americans There is also a decree signed who orders me to be marginalized. 10 hours after this interview, Ahmad Chalabi An autopsy concluded Saddam Hussein arrested, tried, George Bush was re-elected in November 2004. Richard Cheney is reappointed Colin Powell leaves in January 2005. Condoleezza Rice replaces him George Tenet resigned in July 2004 Douglas Feith resigns Paul Wolfowitz was appointed in June 2005, Donald Rumsfeld leaves under pressure from the generals. Richard Perle shares his time