(gentle music) - [Narrator] On June 23rd, 2018, the boys of the Wild Boars Football Club set out for training as usual. They were a football team with a coach and an assistant coach. Training went on as usual and the head coach said and got ready for the putting his phone to the side. (dramatic music) (thunder rumbles) A few hours later, when the coach pulls out he sees countless missed The children hadn't shown up at home despite hours having passed. The coach calls his players individually but none of the children nor the team's assistant until one player finally Sangpol, a 13 year old team member. He's receiving the call from home as he was picked up from but he tells the coach rode their bicycles to the in order to explore them together with their assistant coach. (tense music) The coach heads straight to the caves. But when he gets there, he (gentle somber music) At the cave entrance, the coach finds the which means that the team Only now, a rapid stream of water flows through the cave entrance, creating a life-threatening situation. The heavy rain had started and if they're still Thai police officers find backpacks and other items left behind by the boys. However, apart from the cave entrance, it was not possible to as the water level was so high that it blocked further access. (news broadcaster speaks foreign language) In addition to local authorities, special divers from the Thai Navy SEALs are called to the Chiang Rai region where a crisis management a rescue of the team. Also, a British civilian offering his help. The man's name is Vernon Unsworth, an experienced caver who lives in the area and has a good understanding having been the one who has been exploring and mapping this cave for years. Tham Luang is set to be the and just over a kilometer this cave splits into From here, the entire cave and the kids, if they were still alive, would most likely be further inside on a higher elevated section. The fact that Unsworth was He connected Thai authorities with the British Cave Rescue Council and enabled cave divers, John to fly in and join the search efforts. John and Rick were longtime dive buddies with a great deal of trust between them as they have performed and body recovery missions together. - Out of the breaking news overseas- - [News Broadcaster] 12 players - We don't know how far they have gotten. - [Narrator] With new there are growing fears that before specialized cave If the boys were still alive, they would probably have run out of food. After all, they had only in the cave. Meanwhile, heavy rainfall inside the cave, and instead of progress, the Thai Navy SEALs to advance inside. And when the British there was a certain skepticism as to what these older that Navy SEALs couldn't. - As far as I know, there's so they've never ever been So, of course, they haven't got to navigating one, which we've - [Narrator] For John, and yet also a hobby. Full-time, he works as an IT consultant and Rick Stanton is a former firefighter. But while the two civilians lack athletic or military understanding, they have a special skillset for the conditions here. Although they are only civilians, they are the absolute experts And getting through the cave here, requires many different skills, because while large parts are flooded, there are also passages where and at other places, some - Tham Luang had very poor you literally couldn't see and you had to almost feel your way along. Sometimes I just headed into the current because I simply couldn't I couldn't see any walls and so on. (tense music) - [Narrator] Rick and through the deep cave placing guidelines along the way. This first dive through the because they have to swim - There was a really strong current. You probably couldn't swim so we were on the floor pulling ourselves along. That was the only way to make progress. - [Narrator] Once Rick and John placed guidelines in a section, other divers could partially and orientation was made a lot easier, though still a challenge. The divers target is a which is a large chamber that and could offer protection Perhaps this is where the boys went. But before advancing this far, John and Rick have to The rain kept getting this might ultimately Considering the conditions, Rick and John have to pause their dives. Nonetheless, no thought amidst the Thai Navy SEALs, who were working around that would help reduce the water levels. In addition, countless volunteers such as Saman Kunan, a and an experienced diver The SEALs set up a permanent at Chamber 3. This larger cavern provided to permanently station (tense music) Even amidst a bleak situation, they tried everything they find new cave entrances, to force as much water out - No sign of life from 12 - The boys have now been Locals are holding out hope - [Narrator] Driven by the enthusiasm of the local search teams, and considering the slightly the British volunteers began embarking on their longest dive with the goal of finally (water burbling) After a long and exhausting dive, they finally make it and of the cave system. But still, there is no sign of the boys. From here on, there is no way of continuing The basic rule is to use for the way in so that you for the way back and one The divers were already but they decided to not give up just yet and advanced further into the cave system, laying guide wire throughout. They continue making their way more than twice as far from the T-section, as their initial when they eventually swim and suddenly notice a light. (water burbling) As John swims towards the light he turns on his camera. - [John] Yeah, (indistinct). - Thank you. - Thank you! - How many of you? - 13. - [John] 13? - Yes, 13. - [John] Brilliant. - [Rick] Many, many people. - [John] We are the - What day? - [Rick] Tomorrow. - [John] No, no, no. What - [Rick] Oh. - [John] Monday. Monday. - Monday. - [John] Okay, but one week, Monday. You have been here 10 days. 10 days. You are very strong. (upbeat music) - Just describe the media - [News Broadcaster] It's huge here. (news broadcasters - [Mark] To find the boys there, is a huge relief for the authorities and just for the nation (upbeat music) - [Narrator] The following dive to the team to stay with As enthusiastic as the world reacted to the boys being found, knew that finding the but no one had any idea how (gentle music) - So the plan for now is this, they are trying to out of this cave as possible. - [News Broadcaster] Elon Musk After the rescue team rejected his offer, claiming that a rigid the sinuous cave tunnels, the Tesla boss lashed out on Twitter. - In previous cave rescues, as a way to get people out. - [Voiceover] And the final inside the cave until around mid-October when the monsoon season finally ends. (gentle somber music) - [Narrator] On one hand, to teach the boys how to dive. They could practice short in their cave until they the long, difficult journey out. Option two was to rescue the team using an emergency elevator somewhat similar to the 2010 Finally, there was also until the rainy season is over. As long as they are trapped, the team would be provided with food and would be able to walk out of the cave once the water level went down. While to outsiders, it appeared as though there to choose from, the rescuers that it was even worse, that none of these options was realistic. Teaching the kids to dive is not possible. Not only are some of they are also exhausted of no proper sleep. In addition, the path has nothing to do with and a panic attack would Drilling a shaft was also In the case of the minors in Chile, it took about seven weeks before they could be freed. The situation in the Thai The team was almost a and in between, there that is difficult to drill through. And even if this approach was used, it's unclear how to exactly of the boys so that the with their chamber. Lastly, waiting until is also doomed to fail. The oxygen level in the chamber is already in a dangerous range that is not survivable And it was still only the which lasts until November. The team might have had to hold out for more than four months could endanger the safe spot they were in. The rescuers were out of options. On top of that, word of made rounds. - Waking up to this news this was young, he was fit, he and I think it really just this cave is. - [Narrator] Saman Kunan, who volunteered to help, had died. A painful loss, and a this entire operation is. - [News Broadcaster] Saman Kunan His dive partner finding him - [Narrator] With no realistic a somewhat insane idea What if the children were sedated and then transported while being unconscious? At this point, Rick Stanton gets in touch with an old acquaintance, Harris is an anesthesiologist and a cave diver with over Harris is averse to the plan far too dangerous with Still, he travels to Thailand. And what ultimately convinces him is not a change of his risk assessment, but the realization that To do this, a team was made up of some of the best (tense music) The kids in the cave and then be given two leaving them fully unconscious. Then, a special diving mask is put on, that covers the entire face so that even if a gap opens under water, the air pressure should The boys' hands were to keep their arms from swinging around, and a tank filled with 80% oxygen was placed in front of the boys' chest so that their head cannot fully tilt down, which could result in a blocked airway. The kids would also be so that they could not get lost. And from this point on, were literally in these divers hands. (tense music) - [John] If anything that was keeping their face dry, if it had been knocked in any way, then the child would've - [Narrator] For longer in which the cave can be crossed on foot, the boys were taken onto a stretcher and transported towards The drugs given to the kids are not enough for the whole journey, and the diver has to administer with a pre-made syringe. (tense music) Throughout the entire way, the divers fear for the kids' lives. But when the first two kids confidence grows. It appears as though this From here on out, the successfully been drained together with countless volunteers, transported the boys in stretchers through the remaining rocky terrain. - Reports from Northern Thailand say, at least four boys have been brought out. - [News Broadcaster] We've You can see the helicopter blades. Yes. - [News Broadcaster] Ambulances. - [News Broadcaster] - [Narrator] On the first day, four boys were successfully rescued. And the following day, On the third and last day, the plan was to rescue the last four boys and the assistant coach. (crowd cheering) But as well established at this time, something The last boy was the smallest of them all, and the positive pressure mask No matter how tight the against the face, it didn't The divers were forced which they had taken with them, but had hoped that they It is a small children's mask, more suited for recreational use, and even this one barely fits the face and keeps slipping off, as good as possible and (tense music) (water burbling) - Extraordinary moment that entire team is now free of that cave. (gentle sanguine music) - [Narrator] The rescue until the very last second. But now, it was done. All the children and the A success greater than even Although, not without a price. A Thai Navy SEAL contracted during the rescue operation. Beirut Pakbara was a who had struggled with health problems ever since the operation. One year after the rescue, he passed away. With that, two Thai Navy to save the football team. They represent the relentless effort that these Thai Navy SEALs And despite some skepticism on the British divers and the Thai Navy SEALs ultimately complimented and were able to proceed A success story that was - [Interviewer] You're heroes - If you could do something I'm sure you would too. We just had a peculiar set of skills that were appropriate in that moment. (spirited upbeat music) - [Ellen DeGeneres] Please welcome the Wild Boars Soccer Team. (audience applauding) (spirited upbeat music) (gentle music) - [Narrator] This was a story that I've been meaning and I'm glad that I finally But there are a couple of For videos to be able to they have to be advertiser-friendly, which was fine with this topic, but it's just not the case One of my favorite videos I've made is a detailed look at the where Osama Bin Laden was hiding, full of custom 3D animations. But this is a very brutal subject matter that would get demonetized and perhaps even Another thing on YouTube is how much effort I can There's more that I can do It turns out lots of and so what we did is to build a solution. It's called Nebula and it's Here, I have an exclusive in which I explored these topics that just couldn't work on YouTube. And since Nebula is a subscription model, I get to work with higher budgets, turning my dream projects into reality. (upbeat music) I am immensely proud of as I fully had the chance in ways that just wouldn't And over 650,000 people So join them and head to nebula.tv/neo, and make sure that you use that link, so choose which plan is right for you.