A strange thing happened to me year. I had never really been a count the late nights playing Heroes of But that was firmly in the era of CD-ROM disks. and one of the most popular ways Now, I was no stranger to a digital storefront--by dozens of digital games through the Xbox and assumed I would approach Steam purchases the exact my purchase behavior became so foreign to me that What I hadn't realized yet is that the Steam reading Robert Cialdini's foundational study I learned how Steam convinces users to buy I'm gonna explain exactly what those tactics from making purchases you may regret. your Steam library have you actually played? If be in the majority. According to this analysis that a user owns, on average they've only played Now, I need to caveat that this data set was not distinguish between free and paid titles. higher if you filter out any free downloads. which offer the chance to get a bunch of games the overwhelming trend is: Steam users buy a I wasn't able to find similar data for the Steam Deck that none of the console stores We'll talk about why that is in just a minute, not be for you, but the answer will depend buying games that you never play is a And over here in the western hemisphere, I would whether that's Starbucks, clothes, or Magic in the form of dollars, but it can also eat With digital overconsumption it works roughly out a storage unit to stash all of your extra though, this overconsumption can be associated plenty of Reddit posts about so-called Steam games in their digital libraries, and they Hopefully you don't fall into that category, my goal for this video is to equip you with rational decision-making. Let's get into it. if you have a Steam account then you're probably of their limited-time sales. But have you And why they have such a powerful impact on us? games get marked down--it makes mattress stores year as an active Steam user, I was assaulted with the year. The biggest ones are the seasonal a significant chunk of the site's catalog for and are usually highly anticipated by the events mixed in between throughout the rest of the publisher events and genre-specific and the effect is that no matter the day, you So to state the obvious, Steam didn't invent this shortly after the invention of money itself. effective sales will leverage the principle of as a psychological trigger that compels us to My most vivid experience with scarcity circa 2004. Until I learned about this principle, those yellow wristbands so badly that I would the sporting good stores to see if they had any in a small group of kids at school had one, I could Steam sales are chronically preying on our every sale comes a countdown. Special promotion! to a specific and relatively short timeline we suddenly feel compelled to act, or we risk the pain we'd feel thinking about that the game at a higher price later on. why are Steam sales still effective if they happen then by definition that makes it less scarce. more clear as we talk about the other tactics at Steam and console stores is the sheer number Steam may have more than 10x as many The simple explanation for this is and #2: they've made their platform Recent estimates put the global number while the total console audience sits just into even smaller slices when looking at specific Because Steam wants to cater to all types an appealing platform for small and indie good controls over game management, and a handful extremely popular place to publish games. but it has a pool of 100,000 options that will promotions. When you do happen to get an alert applies. Because that game is not always 50% the developer may mark it down in the future. extensive sales promotions. But there working quietly in the background to maximize On the surface, Steam's wishlist functionality Load up any number of online stores and I'd them--it's a simple mechanism to save products engaging more with the wishlist functionality A big reason I decided to buy the Steam Deck been ported to my main console yet. So one of device was to load up the store and check As I explored, I quickly realized that the to be tuned quite well. It was just really easy on my radar--Steam does a great job highlighting to catch your eye and make you curious. And even already been trained to take the exact actions all of those curious-looking games to my wishlist. I had probably 15 games in there already, many my mind, that act of wishlisting was just a I could look into them later. But in reality, I In Influence, Cialdini describes what he calls the people have a strong need to act consistently a friend that you'll help them move into a new commitment. And if you told them in front of the chance of you flaking is very low. choice or taken a stand, we'll encounter behave consistently with that commitment. ways that justify our earlier decision." I wasn't just saving them to look back on to those games, signaling to my future self that on the list, Steam begins its war of attrition--a you finally cave. You'll receive an email every these price drops are not uncommon. So, over time, a powerful need to behave consistently with your At this point, we've set the stage for Steam's piece missing: the audience. Imagine you're never seen before. Suddenly, during the the woman sitting to your left starts laughing notice other people in your row starting to laugh. roaring giggle. As far as you can tell, there is stage. But everywhere you look, you see laughter. As Cialdini would describe, it is fundamentally witness in this moment. You just can't help And even though your rational brain can't make justify it because it's reacting to a crystal So what do these signals look like on Steam? audience who are laughing. Steam ratings my opinion, they tie everything together. have converged toward a highly consistent typically either 5 or 10 points, are AirBnB--these platforms all depend on their five products and services to potential customers. subject to this kind of numeric scale. It's how majority of review outlets will use some kind of averaging numeric ratings can give a fairly Without any additional information, we an average rating of 9 out of 10 is gonna to be The Steam store doesn't use a numeric scale, you review a game on Steam, you're given only And the number that gets displayed on who Recommended the game. So for example, if it would show a rating of 85%, and it would So how is this so different from the other differences. First, it tends to skew positive. simply a lower bar for success. A 7/10 game higher on Steam. Because a lot of people would considered average on the numeric scale. interpret percent recommended is fundamentally average. Why? Because when we read we instantly create a mental image--an image that beings telling us to play this game. Think back to is like seeing the vast majority of the audience is a vivid depiction of social proof. that Steam uses to sell us more games. Social an action if we see others doing it--and especially generally benefited humans--if you're walking of people shouting and sprinting out the front in some cases, social proof can mislead us. Amazon fake customer reviews, which try to target our While I don't think Steam has the same kind the power of social proof through a rating system of tribal approval. With these three principles of persuasion in can now see how this whole production plays out. store. You were hoping to check out a game your you're greeted with a fullscreen banner: It's the Scarcity has kicked in. You feel a subtle pressure about it the week prior, you hadn't spent any time clock ticking in the back of your mind, you head you spot a mouth-watering 75% off tag slapped next onto the stage. You remember why you added it you trust had praised the game's satisfying you had received other notifications about as this. With the game sitting at just $15, this purchase. But you can't find one, after You decide to check the game's details one its Steam page, you see that 80% of the game's Social Proof swoops in for the finale*.* The lingering doubts you had in your head. Moments where it will patiently wonder if it's gonna This is a stiff cocktail of persuasion tactics. the seamless integration of Scarcity, Commitment, so effective at selling you games. have a game added to your cart on Steam, narrate using each of the principles described in this hear it, and are not bothered by any part But if you start to get a funny feeling in probably tells you everything you need to know. out there, let me know what you guys think in the tactics? Any strategies you've found especially Thank you guys for watching, don't forget to