My name is Alyssa. I'm from and I was diagnosed four gastric cancer The first symptom extreme fatigue. I was tired I didn't have energy anymore. It was just work, And that was So I thought, okay, maybe there's My family does have a history so I want to go When I first saw she agreed that it was not like me to especially at that age in my health history. So we ran just to see or if it would unfortunately, it came back that everything so we didn't really as to what was causing And, and, Maybe it's stress. Maybe you're just exhausted Let's do bloodwork every couple of months, and we'll keep checking in energy levels are. so a couple months getting notifications letting me know rate was over and it would be sitting down, relaxed, And after a few times I thought But you know, maybe I need and see So, they did It came back, but she didn't want me to continue that elevated resting So she and then with redid bloodwork, normal again. And so we're like, let's just keep an eye A couple months later, the very first time, and I had never had So I was just what is this and why is it And from the moment the first time, Every single time I ate, it was all day, And I was just why do I have heartburn 24 over Let me go back. So I went back and, that time I did at the same clinic because she had and she told me, well, it's probably you're getting older, so maybe you can't handle And I said, well, I've it's constantly now, regardless And she said, well, let's just start Try to cut back on So I did and I started didn't do anything. And at that time, I wanted to figure out what was going on with my heart because I was taking but we didn't And she said, well, it's probably not going to come back with good results because you've been for a couple of And I said, okay, well, let's and I guess we can go So sure enough, it came back And she said, yeah, because it's regulated And I was just because I was just and more medications. I wasn't what was causing I had never had So I said, Let me start all over. I want to wean off I don't want to take for the heartburn and I want to start Let's do testing figure out and then we can go If that's And so over months, to slow down my heart rate slowly because I didn't want to have And within two months I lost a lot of weight 15 pounds. I'm a very short person, so 15 pounds And everyone like, what's going on? Where are you You're getting really And I said, yeah, I don't know but I'm already going Well, then I started having so I would and it would almost would get stuck and I couldn't So then I would try to drink something, maybe but then I would feel It wasn't helping. Even when I drink So that happened and I was like, okay, maybe a thousand But then it happened and I said, okay, now I'm not going to wait Let me book the first appointment And again, my primary care doctor but the other doctor So I booked and she kind of was just telling everything Everything's Your bloodwork you know, I, I don't And I told her, well, I want to redo and she was kind of Like what for? We. Everything looks fine. but she started going and I think she saw my weight She said, oh, wow, you did lose in a short So yes, I did. And she said, okay. And I don't really like about the difficulty So let's get you And so I was like, we're so I, we did bloodwork Two months later, I met with the really concerned with the symptoms She said, I want to I want to do a stool do an endoscopy, CT scan and possibly So I did all of that. again, bloodwork CT scan looked great, everything And the only thing left was the endoscopy I was going to be done By that point, four months doing these tests, and I was just I'm ready. Two and a half years I have no answers and I'm spending every appointment, it was just But I wanted answers and I was just is it even worth it Because if I get no I'm still stuck And my spouse told me stick with it. I think we need to see if this this could that we've been So I did, and when I woke up the person who we found one polyp, We're not really We removed it. Doesn't you had a lot of an area that we don't It's where meets your stomach. And, Yeah, it's pretty bad. And I said, okay, so what are we doing? And he said, I'm going to take a and I asked him, so is that why difficulty swallowing? And he said, yeah, That's why. And I said, okay. Well, why I lost within a short period And he said, yeah, And then he took a deep breath does cancer And I just thought, Where did this But I was just waking up from the procedure, so I was kind of like, trying And I remember two pretty distant, Stomach related. And he said, like I said, we're I'll call the results he called in He's like, person that performed So I call myself like, hurry up, and he got there right to hear that And we were both just We didn't We kind of were just, staring at each other, Are we really hearing Is this It was just like we weren't conversation anymore. I know whatever else was said came back to the person on so do you have And I was just I have a million but I don't even where do we begin? So the only thing I could really think to ask was, Where do we go And he said, well, you know, I'm pretty hopeful that You know, but you're We're going to take care of this But what we're going is we're going to do another scan because we weren't to see so high up. And from there, you with and they will go from in addition, he did Pylori. he said that the gastric cancer, I got it I never had symptoms. And because it went it turned into And so I said, well, first and then you can, I was referred out to the cancer and the complete. 180 it was. They were moving with they said, hey, we book We don't call if it's okay with you. If it's not okay, just call us back I'm like, okay, great. So immediately they, made me an oncologist and bloodwork, scans, which I knew that was probably going to happen a new provider. And so we did that. a but before I got to this first I was kind of searching for support starting to feel like, I know I have cancer, how to feel and I in these emotions. So let me try and one of my friends hey, my mom support groups. So I searched some support groups. Initially, getting what I needed. it was just and so many people so many different And I just felt but I did find one, Sister support Group, and it was that have had joined that. And immediately I was asked about, what type of stomach And I said, They just have And so, she asked me if I would share my, And so I did, and she basically told exact type. Cancer. just like this is what's This is what they need That just empowered me I felt ready to go and I met with my surgical oncologist went through, okay, we are going to do we're going to do the first one we were, they were just so they didn't know This one, we know So we are going to with an ultrasound Okay. Awesome. He said also, we need to go ahead and implant because you're going as soon we'll have to do four then surgery to remove and then for more great, he said. But before I have to do another procedure what? The type of cancer It does not show up So, we had to cut going with cameras, and look for signs What we don't want to see to the peritoneum. And that's We don't like because there's not And at that point four and surgery would not be now. Okay, great. let's do it. So there's a lot of steps. But I felt calm that we had a plan But, unfortunately, I got a call when I was in the and it was my surgical I stepped away and he told me, during I took some biopsies and they did come back so it has spread It is stage four, surgery That just kind of because I knew that removing the stomach for this So I was just what now? And he said, well, now we're going to pivot you back and you you will just do chemo matter. And I was just like, how can I surgery And he said, no, it's for us to do that with But, you know, in four months, in with you. we could possibly called high pack, directly but at that point, I want you to do for more months of chemo. So it really just your progress. And I said, okay, so that was my she confirmed. Yep. We will have to do chemo essentially for with the goal of and I said, that is your goal however, my goal on the table to help prolong And I just want to let that's really And I'm willing to do to do if there are any trials available, I would love to do I just need And so at that point, there weren't so I started chemo, did four months during that time, One of the scans that I had a system, but there wasn't big notes on it. We weren't we didn't And then in October, my just told me that a new trial available, and it was specific that I have, as well as the spread And I thought, And she said, you know, with this, receive chemo directly and you would have surgery to remove yeah. They're hoping for the spread I just like, Like, that's That's Sign me up. And she said, we had to do just to make sure that there is no signs of spreading because that would So let's do that. So I did the scan and, the cyst on my ovary and she said, okay, so We need to make sure that that's We need Okay. let's do it. We did the ultrasound, and after that, I met with my And during he told me that, the ultrasound as non definitive. So they weren't if it was cancerous But, I was okay to go forward So I thought, amazing. Here we go. Like I'm so excited. And after that to place the port And a few weeks I began the chemo I received Everything was good. And then we started I had a break, we did more bloodwork. We did the pre-op, we did one final CT scan six days but also during that with another surgeon to remove my ovaries. She told me, well, this is going to put You know that to have kids anymore. You're very young to be going through And I said, I completely this is not a decision making lightly. Like we we know how this is going to to continue So it's not an easy But, with us this type of cancer to spread and then not to tell us for sure if it's cancers as well as my surgical stating this is the best plan. he's looked at them the laparoscopy. He said that look completely And she wishes kind of upset She wasn't and the day I had to meet with her again, so what are we doing? And I said, so we're So then I went in It was about a 7 They removed attached my intestines and they also removed I was supposed to be for a week, but I was very determined to not have I knew the surgery had a, tendency and it's not 100% but I wanted to do everything to do So they wanted me that locked around. They wanted that I was sitting up I sat I ate the protein that did everything that And because of that, and the way everything I was able to leave at four days And I had a follow up with my surgical And at that point, she went over That was a little bit just because we had was going to get me to no And we were hopeful that this trial addressed everything But, he told me that he wasn't able the cancer had gone up my esophagus, he went as high as he That was safe but he was just very he also sure at that the tumor had taken up half, half it wasn't like that but now it's taking up and he removed He removed 53 27 came back And he said, well, is that the cancer is it also signals So we're looking at We didn't really get the results even with the chemo that you did it looks like you had a zero So at that point, I was just shocked. I really didn't to think, how to feel. And he told me, we still have you on schedule more rounds of chemo but, I'm kind of concerned of the pathology. I don't know if we can wait to finish that, to put it back on system, do we need to just jump right into systemic chemo to address anything in your body versus just focusing Yeah, well, we brought back in my oncologist and, she shared it'd be best and finish the trial. And after that, you know, maybe we should just So that kind of brings to now. I am kind of Next month, just to review Is there anything else I have a great support I have great family and friends make sure I also, I mean, I rely heavily I bounce ideas Hey, we all think I'm not feeling What? What has anyone else And, you know, just them being there your concerns You know, Maybe you can ask And, I mean, they're about I wouldn't had I not, you know, been in that group because I don't see it has it been another thing is, my spirituality, that's very important So, you know, I put on my worship I pray, to guide me some days are harder And also, therapy. Therapy always felt like I was dealing with most of this but I didn't want to give in myself. So I said, okay, I get someone just to make sure that I am dealing Because, you know, for the most part, But there are times and I just want to make sure in a healthy manner. I don't want to just and think like and really I'm I would say definitely focus on your why, why do you want Why is it important? I mean, for me, it's I want to be here I have a son. And just wanting wanting to see him grow up. I want to be a grandma I always say I want to be the cool see everything. See my child grow up, see him be a husband, just see all his life, and be there And of course, spend with my spouse. You know, we have been together for almost and while that can I just feel like we have so much more time to so many My body is It is not the body Like, I always joke I'm an old woman now I just get fatigued I do one task I did a whole day's Running errands. I have a going I'm without a stomach. I'm not able to absorb B12, injections But those wear off. It doesn't hold. without my stomach. I'm not getting that maximum So I'm now anemic to absorb iron. So that's also And then having I'm going my hormones And just the of chemotherapy My body is just it's just really, And I can feel that. And it's a bit frustrating because I'm a very independent person and I like to I would say so vital. It's something that to make sure with each appointment. You know, your body. unfortunately, said, doctors, you They're very busy. And it's You know, sometimes hey, this symptom is concerning This is what I need And I think we forget that We go into the doctor just wanting them But they don't have and that that's not