Hello friends Today I will show you how when we need to water the orchid When the orchid's roots are green like this, the orchid has enough water The leaves will be green and sturdy But if the roots turn white, the plant is lacking water check the potting medium you will find it very dry Leaves will wilt very quickly if we don't water them in time In this case, we need to quickly water the orchid HOW TO WATER AS FOLLOWING: Place the orchid pot in a deep dish and water the substrate completely If the roots are still fresh but the leaves are wilted, we can soak the orchid in water for 20-30 minutes With pots using moss growing medium, the ability to retain moisture is very good, so we only need to water enough moisture. and no need to soak. Eat bananas, don't throw away the peels Banana peel contains a lot of vitamins and minerals: vitamins A, B, C, E and protein, phosphorus, especially rich in potassium. Potassium resists drought very well, helps the orchid to transport water from the root to the top, so the orchid does not wilt At the same time, potassium helps to stimulate flower growth and keep flowers fresh for a long time We cut banana peels Put all banana peels in a jar and pour 500ml of boiled water Then incubate for 1 day for the nutrients to dissolve into the water 5 vitamin b1 tablets mixed with 500ml of filtered water B1 helps plants to better absorb nutrients and growth regulator It also stimulates root growth very well After 1 day of incubation, we mix banana juice with vitamin B1 water to get 1 liter of synthetic organic fertilizer solution. Divide into a spray bottle Spray the top and bottom of the leaves evenly Orchid plants are provided with a part of nutrients that are supplemented through the leaves At the same time, it also eliminates insects to help the orchid stay green You can also use a cotton ball soaked in this synthetic organic fertilizer solution to wipe the leaves Do this 1-2 times a month, the orchid will always be protected and green Next, you use this liquid synthetic organic fertilizer solution to irrigate the orchid do 1-2 times a month and combine with other organic fertilizers that I have shared on the channel It will help orchids easily absorb nutrients Vitamin B1 helps stimulate root growth Potassium in banana juice will stimulate flower growth and help flowers stay fresh for a long time It is truly the perfect formula for the full development of roots, leaves and flowers It's very good, but you should not overdo it, it will harm the orchid You should only fertilize according to my instructions so that your orchid garden always blooms without affecting the growth of orchids. Please comment below about your results Please comment in the video so that I can help you further if your lan has problems My videos have subtitles in different languages, please choose the right language to understand the video content I share. If you find it interesting, don't forget to like, share and subscribe to support me Don't rush to leave this video and continue watching part 2/2 to support me Welcome to part 2 of the video When you plant a lot of orchids, you will not be able to avoid rotten orchids. You see my orchid has been infected with a fungus If not handled promptly, this orchid is very easy to die Even though it's rotten, it's still fresh when cut across It is also a favorable condition for the spread to respawn faster We need to cut off the branches and remove all the rot This will prevent rot from spreading Then rinse with water Use 300ml of water at room temperature Mix 1 tablespoon of unsweetened fresh milk into the water add 1 vitamin B1 tablet Use a cotton ball to absorb the mixture of B1 water and milk Then wipe the top and bottom of the leaves This water mixture has a disinfecting effect Helps get rid of fungal diseases Then use this mixture of water B1 and milk to soak the orchid root for 20 minutes The rest is used to spray other normal orchids Helps get rid of fungal diseases and supplement necessary nutrients for orchids After soaking for 20 minutes, take out the branches dry the cut use toothpaste Applying it on a cut will help it heal faster will protect orchids from rot While waiting for it to dry, I recycle old plastic containers to make tools to revive orchids Use industrial cotton to put it in the pot then let the orchid in Next, every 3 days, spray moisturizing mist with normal water Then put the orchid pot in a cool place The most suitable temperature for reviving orchids is from 20-30 degrees Celsius 1 MONTH LATER The orchid has rooted very well and grow 1 more young leaf B1 stimulates rooting very well Milk contains natural calcium to help orchids stay strong and increase resistance Now I grow orchids in pots with moss so that it adapts to the outside environment Note: When the roots are firmly attached to the substrate, fertilize the orchid Welcome to part 3 of the video There are many flower buds, the flowers stay on the branches longer. Today I share a very easy way to make orchids always grow healthily. lush green and flowers will bloom all year round. Water it once a week. and leave for 10 minutes. to help the roots turn green. then take it out. I use a small teaspoon of cinnamon powder mixed into 1 liter of boiled water. Cinnamon powder is very good, helping orchids grow very quickly. Wait for this water to cool. After the water cools, will filter this water. And I use 1 tablespoon of flour, which contains a lot of nutrients. Add 1 liter of water. The nutrients in wheat flour also help plants grow very quickly. and mix with cinnamon water. will create a great organic nutrient for orchids. And water immediately at the base of the tree. You should fertilize orchids every 2 weeks. Use this water to spray on the leaves. Helps prevent insects such as thrips and mealybugs. You should do it early in the morning and by noon the leaves will dry very quickly. Leave it like that for 20 minutes. Wheat always contains many organic nutrients. Helps orchids grow healthily. This type of water also helps a lot for weak, underdeveloped plants. If the orchid has been planted for many years and still hasn't bloomed, repot it. Cut off damaged roots. use this water wipe the leaves. Helps leaves recover from fungus. Cinnamon powder has antibacterial and antiseptic properties and wheat contains a lot of minerals. and essential vitamins, helping plants recover very quickly. Adding this amount of water helps new roots grow quickly. Soak in this water for 20 minutes. Then take it out. Place the plant in a bright place. Helps plants photosynthesize, create chlorophyll, keep leaves green and roots strong. and the flowers will bloom more beautifully. Hope it will always help you a lot. Don't forget to like, share, subscribe to the channel and ring the bell for easy viewing. Thank you for watching the video. Good luck and see you in the next videos.