Time goes by so fast. I'm now 38 I wish, I could go back Right. Hindsight is a wonderful thing and I'm sharing them on this video and start I grew them into the five areas in life and that is personal career relationships, So starting off with personal life not everyone will like you, growing up, and it took me a long time You could be out in a supermarket waiting to get your coffee or in your workplace, Someone would decide that they don't like and a lot of times So what someone might like, just how it is and it took so much pressure Because I didn't date, We should do. It's to build relationships and appreciate you for who you are. Number two, time is precious So spend the time with those You, the most and also work on things Embrace the chance to wake up every day and just simply live. Regret for me as a personal experience You never see where you're going Looking back in my life, there were things that didn't work out But I've let that go and my life Number three. Life is unfair. And let's face it, right? Because sometimes in life, we feel like So where you're born, who your family is, and what you did in your early years and as we go through life, And very much like you, But one thing I learned is to be resilient And unfortunately, the fact is that But here's the thing The world's But why not use this opportunity to use it as motivation, to make To move forward. Things like learning high income skills, embrace a healthier lifestyle, and showing Because we're living in one of the best Thus leveling the playing field And more It doesn't matter Let's move on to careers Number four is that you will not always And I caveat this and that's amazing, Like most people since my teens, this elusive passion And I try so hard for the rest of that That's set by society. It's really unrealistic to expect that And imagine instead, you embrace the And having some fun along the way. And especially my twenties. I think at that time because I had no kids, no obligations, I keep on reinventing myself, and I think you find something and you take action on that. And what you find is that in years you were where you're supposed Number five, But the same time, just putting in the hard work and you have seen this shared over success, where instant results you know, kind of stories where they talk followers in two weeks And these are kind of stories and feel like you're always behind. Because while hard work is A lot of people work but still find obstacles and challenges And I guarantee you But it's important to remember that's made out of timing skills. And a lot of times luck. And I think the key to success is a lot of times being made because Wall is really important to be It's also important to be able to open, And speaking of pivoting, especially in my own journey, eventually to running my own business I want to share a few words It's a place where I started my own online to create and edit videos so I can share Years ago. And Skillshare that let the industry experts design, illustration to be interesting. Give me a try. Use the link in my description to use this link will get a whole month I really hope that you find this helpful and giving yourself or the professional journey Work life balance is a myth. And I myself like someone. You guys are juggling You maybe have a family, young children You might be running a side hustle Or maybe simply you just want to maintain outside your current working we all have the things that we want to do, all the same time. And as a working mom, But what I found is that Every plate that I was spinning and it was just really exhausting. And now, finally, sometimes I tilt towards work. Sometimes I tilt towards family, looking after myself. because adjusting to life seasons will change at different times It doesn't mean It just means that you will focus on it And now, moving on to things Number seven is everything in life, comes from compounding efforts. If you can't especially those financial gurus about how you need to have X percent by the time you're age 30, because everyone has different And small, consistent actions over a longer So it doesn't matter when's the time The key is that you should start It's a really powerful Right? So saving invest and spending wisely. By doing these three things and creating a great financial future Number eight is that money and choices. I realized later on life that the freedom when you want, with whom you want And even though money can't buy to do what you want. so while we can't live without money to take away the stress in life we can do is know So you can make and have enough money to nine, delaying life's qualifications There's this popular idea which is one lifestyle inflation, alongside with your income, that you can I want to reach my thirties. I realize that having lifestyle as long as you can budget for it as before. Because at the end of the day and you want to spend on things after all, I can provide a better living and quality But as long as I realize with the Joneses or showing you off And now let's move on to health Number ten. Surround yourself with people and expect You should also do the same We live in the world where we're hyper The ones on social media A lot of people, you know, They may be around when things are well. They're there for the celebrations They'll celebrate your successes. But when things take a turn for the worse, And two friends, true friends, are the ones that stay with you They'll be there to support you when you're going through your challenges, And you want to make these friends Number 11. Your body is made. The food that you eat, your mind is made, and your life is made of the habits Just like a car that needs fuel to run our body needs healthy food And it's not just our physical health, That's influenced by what we eat. Our mind that we feed it, that we read, that Because all these little micro inputs is shapes our beliefs and our thoughts. And our health Whether we choose to exercise regularly, these everyday tiny little habits number 12. Don't let your phone take away The best positivity and mindfulness app In the age where we have sometimes can get so consumed tiny screen that we miss and I remember the time when I could but yet I can't seem to sit down So when I chose to adopt by not having devices I became much more intentional in my time, by doing deep work rather than Well, I think technology every single day. I think it's up to us to set our life looks like. I have so many more lessons to share, on this in the future. And lastly, I want to leave you That is, don't let society's expectations You don't have a timeline or checklist, When I was 29, I was about to turn 30. I was so stressed I haven't done that haven't really ticked And when I realized we're locking ourselves into a timeline because of the in the day. Everything will happen in its own time. And if you believe in this, Were some life lessons and realizations I love to hear about them, so please If you like this video. You might also like this video here, that I would do to change my life And down here, these are some of the life I remember to like and subscribe Thank you so much for watching Time goes by too fast. I'm 38 this year I wish I could tell my 20 year old self as much as I want to go back in time and setbacks I faced, I am today, become the same person. The Brazilian down song is a wonderful thing. Time goes by too fast. I'm 38 this year and I've learned so much, so many things As they say, As much as I want to go back in time to save myself from the mistakes. Time goes by too fast. I'm 38 this year and I've learned. Time goes by too fast. I'm 38 this year I want to tell my 20 year old self as time goes by too fast. I'm 38 this year I wish I could tell my 20 year old self. Time goes by too fast. I'm 38 this year and I've learned so much that As they say, I'm sharing all of them in this video from them and start I've summarized them across the five areas in everyone's lives personal growth ships, I'm sharing all of them. I'm sharing all of them in this video and start living intentional from today. I want to so you can start learning from them as time goes by too fast in the blink of an eye. Time goes by too fast. I'm 38 this year I learned that old self. As they say, As much as I want to go back in time from the setbacks I don't think I've become I'm sharing all of them today from them and start I'm sharing them across the five areas that you can probably relate Personal growth, health, relationships, money, careers, and professional growth, starting with personal lessons. In truth, a number one is that not and that's okay. And number one is that not I was a people pleaser growing up, this. Time goes by too fast. I'm 38 this year, that I wish I could go back Right. Hindsight is a wonderful thing. I'm sharing all of them in this video so you can learn from them and start I summarize them into the five areas health, relationships, careers, money, starting with my personal life lessons. In truth, number one, not everyone will Time goes by too fast. I'm now in my 30. Time goes by too fast. I'm now 38 and I wish I could go back Time goes by too fast. I'm now 38. I learn so much that and tell my 20 year old self. And as they say, right. Time goes by too fast. I've learned so much that I wish I could go back Right. Hindsight is a wonderful thing. I'm sharing all of them in this video so you can learn from them and start I summarize them across the five areas life, health, relationships, money, Let's get started with my personal life Number one, not everyone will I was a people pleaser growing up, and it took me a long time to understand I was a people pleaser growing up and it took me a long time Whether you're in the supermarket or your friends party, someone will decide usually nothing you did or said People just have different values, And unfortunately, it's What some people find likable And when I finally realized this, because it's just how it is, trying to please everyone. Not only it's absolutely impossible, but it just makes us doubt ourselves Of our own self-worth. When you finally realize that you don't need and what you should do with those who appreciate you And these are the relationships It's okay and it's okay. That disagreement with others, and it's okay to have disagreements with others, as long as we approach with respect and understanding, And you'll find that in time, you're going to gain more confidence also about your self-worth along the way. And as you do this more and more, you're going to find that along the way And as you do this, more and more, and the acceptance of your self will grow. And as he does more and as you do this more and more, you'll realize that your acceptance and and as you do this more and more, and your acceptance Number two. Time is precious, but regret is wasting your time. Number two, time is precious. A regret is wasting your time. Time is precious and very short. So spend the time Work on what you care about. Embrace the chance to learn to create. To experience and to love and live. Regret for me. On the other hand, I find that focusing on your past just really drains your energy and it really limits your ability It's like trying to drive and completely all of the focus on what's ahead of you on the road because you simply can't focus on If you're always looking into the past, regret for me was a wasted emotion. Regret for me was a wasted emotion that focusing on the past, It really limits my ability It's like trying to drive while looking in the rearview mirror and If you're always focused in the past. Looking back, there were so many things who hurt me. But I've let it go and Because at the end of the day, If you waste time. Life is short. When you put off a postpone Life is short when you love a future that may or may not come A life gets so much more exciting the small joys from everyday, And finally, we learn from our mistakes. Move on from this past to embrace every single opportunity