He grew up to be over six feet tall, a fashionable famous Americans of his time. But he started life in a corner of the Austrian Early Life still existed. An ethnic Serb, he came into the world in His birth seemed to foreshadow his life's massive lightning storm. The lightning that flashed during Tesla's but Tesla's mother didn't agree. Instead, she proclaimed that: His mother was not wrong - as we know today, electricity. But, on top of that, starting in childhood, came to him before he had ideas. There's another side of the story to the It's possible that these flashes - or visions he witnessed in childhood. When Tesla was just five years old he saw accident. It was after this that Tesla began having He had them for the rest of his life. The family lived in a modest home, one that of Tesla in the yard. Tesla's father was an Eastern Orthodox minister, an inventor herself. She created mechanical appliances to use around thinking undoubtedly influenced her son. Tesla's mother also had an incredible memory. She could memorize entire epic poems, and to the genes he inherited from his mother. He memorized entire books, visualized his In his early years at school, Tesla's studies By the time he entered the later years of He moved away from his family to attend the Here, Tesla was accused of cheating because His outstanding memory allowed him to perform pen or paper required - and so his teachers Nonetheless, Tesla was able to finish the instead of the customary four. During his three years at the Higher Real that ultimately defined his career and how In his physics class, the teacher demonstrated Tesla was fascinated. But it would be some time before he could He became ill shortly after graduating in For nine months, he was bedridden with cholera His brush with death helped form Tesla's fearful of germs that it took him 18 napkins In 1874, Tesla was expected to be conscripted Tesla had no interest in serving, and managed away to a mountainous region where he was After a year, Tesla was able to emerge from science. He began attending classes at Austria Polytechnic, a talented and diligent student. In fact - he may have been too diligent. Years after he left the school, and after of letters that the school sent to his father According to Tesla himself, he was working not going to bed until 11 PM. During that time, he was fully focused on He didn't even take off holidays or Sundays By the time his first year was over, he had and received the highest grades possible. But even someone with a brain like Tesla's His second year in school was a complete reversal After losing a scholarship at the end of his Gambling wasn't just a pastime for him - he He lost his tuition money gambling, and then to take them. He never did take them...and so he never graduated. Unwilling to face his family and tell them the town of Maribor and took up work as a He started gambling again, playing cards on At first, some of Tesla's friends thought out the truth eventually. He tried to get his son to return home, but Eventually, he was forced to return home when permit. For a year, Tesla worked as a teacher in Gospic, But his extended family wanted to help him funds and off to Prague he went. But it wasn't an easy jump back into academia. He arrived too late to actually enroll. And even if he hadn't been late, Tesla was enroll. Namely, Czech and Greek. So he did not achieve his academic dreams, his preferred field. He had found a job as an electrical engineer While working there, he and a friend had a One day during the walk, Tesla got one of motor. He picked up a stick, found a patch of dirt, He then built a prototype of the motor. It made sense to him, and he knew the importance for his invention in Europe. America Edison had launched his Edison Company - which Tesla secured a job at the Continental Edison in Paris. His talents were soon taken advantage of for And within two years, he was recruited to in New York. He and hundreds of others worked in Manhattan, utility for New York City. Tesla described his experiences and impressions "I came from Paris in the Spring of 1884, [Thomas Edison]. We experimented day and night, holidays not His existence was made up of alternate periods He had no hobby, cared for no sport or amusement the most elementary rules of hygiene. There can be no doubt that, if he had not who made it the one object of her life to ago from consequences of sheer neglect. So great and uncontrollable was his passion But as he had in his first year of school, One story relates that he stayed out all night being out all night. When Edison found out he was actually out Working for Edison wasn't ideal for Tesla, He only lasted six months at the company. Edison and Tesla disagreed over the alternating favoring alternating and Edison favoring direct, was the primary reason Tesla ended up leaving Tesla and Edison also differed in their approaches to the marketing side of things, while Tesla and innovation part of the work. It's possible his leaving may have been getting...and was then refused. The manager at the Edison Company challenged The first person to successfully do so would That translates to millions of dollars by Tesla jumped at the chance to tackle the invention He completed the task, presented his work...and The manager and Edison claimed the challenge told an upset Tesla: humor." Regardless of the reason, the fact is that only a few short months. He had it in his mind that he was going to with alternating currents. It wasn't so easy to just get started, though. When Tesla quit Edison's company, he had for only two dollars a day. &quot;My high education in various branches of me like a mockery,&quot; he said of this time. While he was doing that, though, he was pitching He found people who liked what they heard, young immigrant. By 1885, he was working on getting his arc promise from two businessmen to start Tesla Only a year into the venture, though, they Yet again, the inventor was penniless. In 1886, though, he met two men who were looking They set Tesla up with a laboratory in New and the Tesla Electric Company was born. In only a year, Tesla had created an induction This time, he had two business partners who and business end of things. Soon after, Tesla published a paper entitled: and Transformers." It laid out his ideas, and it got him noticed. George Westinghouse read the paper, and he Westinghouse licensed Tesla's induction at the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Westinghouse wanted to be the person who provided and he believed Tesla was the person to help In the early 1890s, Westinghouse and Edison Edison was throwing out claims that Tesla's was facing financial difficulties. But Westinghouse paid Tesla for the licensing, on projects that he wanted to. One of those projects was the Tesla coil. The Tesla Coil, which he patented in 1891, It was the first invention of its kind, and and even though the original design isn't still used in tv and radio to this day. 1891 was a landmark year in Tesla's life Along with the patent for the Tesla Coil, Tesla continued his relationship with Westinghouse for the 1893 Columbian Exposition in Chicago. Westinghouse was in charge of lighting the Here, he gave demonstrations to the public, Tesla's next major project came at Niagara Power was being generated at the falls, but system. Based on Tesla's recommendation, Westinghouse at Niagara. Tesla did the design work, and the resulting electricity to the city of Buffalo, New York. With all of these projects, Tesla was gaining world. And he was getting to know other high profile Not all of them were in the scientific sphere, One of the American celebrities that Tesla Even when he was living in Croatia, Tesla The two met in New York City, having crossed Twain had always been interested in technological together in Tesla's lab. A photograph of Twain's hand that Tesla brought Tesla right to the edge of discovering how close he had come until x-rays were actually the invention was made known. Twain was also a part of another Tesla experiment...an Twain's digestive issues. Twain was often constipated, and he wasn't Tesla had developed a vibrating disk that of it. He urged his author friend to climb on board issues solved by shaking his bowels loose. When Tesla thought Twain had had enough of off. But Twain didn't want to get off. He stayed on top of the disk, and continued He shouldn't have ignored Tesla - eventually Twain's bowels. He couldn't control them. The famous author had quite literally gone of Nikola Tesla's laboratory. Tesla never stopped inventing. He said that he only slept two hours per night, Wireless transmission of electricity was one achieve it. Living in New York, he had ample access to He was able to convince J. Pierpont Morgan and the banker provided him with one hundred tower. He was competing with Marconi to transmit Investors, including Morgan, pulled their to abandon the effort in 1906. When the project was abandoned, Tesla didn't actually mortgage the property. Tesla owed huge amounts of money to the Waldorf He lived at the lavish hotel, and he lived nearly five hundred thousand today - in the In 1917, the transmission tower was demolished He also tried to sue Marconi, asserting that wireless transmission technology. Tesla was a genius, there's no doubt about But he was a difficult man - he had many quirks focused on his work. He never married, thinking a woman in his As he said, inventions that have been made by married But there also indications Tesla didn't Then, he became dissatisfied with the attitude In 1924 interview, Tesla explained his thoughts "I had always thought of woman as possessing that made her in these respects far superior I had put her on a lofty pedestal...I worshiped this height, and, like every true worshiper, worship.But all this was in the past. Now the soft-voiced gentle woman of my reverent In her place has come the woman who thinks herself as much as possible like man--in dress, of every kind." Tesla put some of his social and nurturing towards the pigeons that flocked throughout And one in particular caught his attention. "I have been feeding pigeons, thousands But there was one, a beautiful bird, pure one was different. It was a female. I had only to wish and call her and she would I loved that pigeon as a man loves a woman, As long as I had her, there was a purpose " a device to help heal its injured wing and Tesla lived out his life in New York City, and the intellectual. He invented constantly, right up through the In January 1943, a maid decided to enter Tesla's Not Disturb sign. It had been up for 48 hours...when the maid sight of the famous inventor's body. He died of coronary thrombosis at 86 years Behind him, Tesla left a legacy of invention, He played a crucial role in the spread of led to the technology we have today.