Good morning Ryu-chan, good morning is amazing! Iku-chan says &quot;Good morning&quot; ! I'm saying ``Good morning'' Everyone is saying ``Good morning'' Ryu-chan asks me to come with him, so let's go together What can't I eat? Now I know what I can't eat. No meat. I feel like it's pork, beef, chicken, let's make it rice! yes! Sorry to have kept you waiting, Rin-chan... it's time for dinner. You're probably half asleep. I hope the results are good! It would be nice if Ryu-chan could at least eat one of the following: beef, pork, or chicken, but that's okay! Let's all pray too! Pee? I'm going to go, be careful and let's all pray together. I hope it's a good result. Thank you for your hard work! Have you been a good boy, Ryu-chan ? This is the result . Was it good? Can I say it clearly? It's bad! It's rare for a puppy to have such a reaction... do you mean it's common? With this many cases, there is a high possibility that more will appear in the future... At the moment, he is still a puppy and has atopic dermatitis, but most of the atopic dermatitis cases have not yet appeared. I don't think it's there, but the possibility of it appearing in the future is increasing... If it appears here, it looks like it's going to be a bit dangerous! It seems that if you eat even a little bit of it, your symptoms will flare up... it's very serious! No food allergies so far! What can and cannot be eaten? I can't eat beef. There's also one piece of pork. There 's no chicken . Wheat/corn... The first reaction was with rice, but I haven't given any rice. That's right! Rice? That's amazing rice...ah! But there are also foods that are inside the hood! You should definitely not feed that, even if it's food, there's always something that has even a little bit in it! Whether it's potatoes or wheat, wheat has a high reaction rate, so corn is also dangerous, so the normal rice sold in Japan is almost inedible. Since there are, what about sweet potatoes? When I asked about it, I was told if it was a bad idea... it 's plant-based , and if you eat too many vegetables, it 's okay . There's cod...There are salmon foods out there , but most salmon foods also contain wheat, so I thought it would be good if it had corn in it, or something like that, but it also has potatoes in it. I don't know what to do... it 's difficult to use commercially available rice.This company that does allergy testing takes allergy into consideration, and if our food is salmon, they use protein that only comes from salmon. Hey, they're making food! It doesn't use any other raw materials, so it's safe! It's a reservation system, and I wasn't able to buy it today, so I ordered it.It might be better to order a larger quantity.It might be better to order 3 kg... or several pieces.I think so. ! It's so bad... From now on, I keep having reactions to meat and other things , so if I feed him meat-based foods, he'll also react to other meats... I don't think he'll react to chicken at all, but he hasn't reacted for some reason. If you eat meat, there is a possibility that you will have a reaction , even if chicken is not available... Does that mean that you should not eat meat at all? I also confirmed this with the teacher, but we'll be camping and having them eat meat! Even if you let him eat it at that time ...don't let him eat it! For the time being , as for the things that don't seem to have a reaction, it's okay to feed them for now.If you feed them too much, there is a possibility that they will react, so I guess I'll just go camping once in a while. Just give me chocolate while you're there, at an event, or for your birthday! I don't eat that much! It's better not to include meat in your regular food per meal. Just in case. It's a big deal. I was shocked to hear the teacher say, ``It's rare for puppies to produce this much.'' That 's a lot ... There's a high possibility that more and more inedible foods will appear in the future ... It might be high! That's what I was told, but... I think it's better to make food that only has salmon in it.If you don't cut it out completely , it's plant-based.Don't be afraid of the signboard! Are you okay! They're not doing anything, the signboard won't move! It's okay... it's here again, Mame-chan...it's okay... Iku-chan is also infected! Scary? Because you're moving...that's it... where are you going? It's tough because the signboards aren't alive ... Rin-chan, if you fly them around too much, you'll get tired again ! Later...I can't win at the end, so wait a minute! The difference is too wide.In the end, we'll have to wait like this, so it's better to be fun.You have to go slowly at first! Rin-chan, you're starting from scratch again, so trying your best at something like that...it's tiring, it 's tiring! Rin-chan... it's okay to run like that . You did it again at the beginning, you skipped too far, and at the end... it's slow at all... it 's really slow, but it's stopped . Rin-chan, let's go . You've already lost! It's okay to lose ! I won't do it ! I won't do it again! Come on , first of all, it's too much to say that it's fast ! Let's study from the beginning