Have you guys ever done one of those 'Name It's crazy how you can spend so much time still forget Doduo exists at the most important forgettable Pokemon of every Generation? And while I think that is actually an advantage, because as that have become the poster child of forgettable thanks to it or even been on Game Freak's radar So let's get the ball rolling with Generation 1, of the gate. All 151 Kanto Pokemon are ingrained growing up in the 90's and 2000's. If the games Pokerap helped a lot. I mean, I don't even need Diglett, Nidoran, Mankey and I haven't heard point being, every single Pokemon in Gen 1 is Pokemania and for those that didn't, there are Johto game as well AND they have received a ton I decided to look at this from a purely had to name every Gen 1 Pokemon from memory, answer is Tangela. Think about it: Any Pokemon because those have multiple opportunities to be a pretty forgettable Pokemon, Exeggutor thanks to of the other. And while Tangela can evolve, it Generation, meaning your mind mostly likely won't Lickitung are prominently featured in the anime, memorable in their own right for various reasons. surprisingly difficult to find in any Kanto-based it from like competitive battling or having an hadn't existed, I think Farfetch'd would've been the point where Ash has used one on his team, that Tangela is the most forgettable Pokemon from Onto Generation 2, which was only a few years ago faces. But, Game Freak got to them before I could them, like Stantler, Qwilfish, Dunsparce, job here a lot more difficult... My first idea was always a bit of a forgettable trope. But, addition in this Gen, I think you are somewhat on top of the infamous Egg you receive chance. So instead, I would say the truly most it did receive a new evolution in Gen 4, but are not the most memorable bunch to begin with. Gen 7 with the Mantine surfing minigame, but I makes Mantine memorable. I'd say its strongest but I feel like those two are also coming close they're an evolution family so double the chances, Now that Game Freak has done so much clean-up work with the most forgettable Pokemon. You've unique Weather abilities cause it's completely who only skirt by because there's two of them and but I don't think it's unremarkable enough. The the most forgettable three stage family in Pokemon they too miss out, meaning my pick is Luvdisc. really a thing anymore like it was on like the really the only thing that made it somewhat have it lingering in the back of their minds from that passes, another poor soul forgets Luvdisc Now, there is one name that I purposefully didn't among Luvdisc's fiercest rivals for the top effects of its forgettableness aren't felt until the games is forgettable beyond belief, since it's sucks in battle. But in the anime, it was very of James's main Pokemon, which means it instead which truly has nothing going for it. It's a Baby ever... it never stood a chance. Especially not in meaning third stages, which are generally speaking stragglers, like Chatot and Carnivine, Legends that game did wonders to the notoriety of Sinnoh with them in order to progress the game in a way Chingling is a footnote, with nothing rate in the initial trailer. If that's your most Onto Gen 5, which has the biggest Dex of all, slip through the cracks. However, the newfound a movement that has resulted in many of this they're memorable' treatment. Maractus is the are also examples of Pokemon that always forgettable Pokemon. And you know... if they're about anything... they aren't that forgettable. and Beheeyem. I know I have so far said that but even with those increased odds, these two I have genuinely never heard anyone discuss shame if you ask me, cause I think they're really that is the problem... Everyone kinda likes them, Beheeyem your favorite Pokemon? Let me know in the an idea that is just completely false. Anyway, pouring in to prove me wrong, I'm calling From the biggest Dex to the smallest a new kind of memorable Pokemon emerges: memorable. Like Binacle and Barbaracle for of the object mon that always gets people riled at least. Carbink can consider itself very, very that, it's forgettable as hell and if Qualladin it would easily be among the most forgettable pick Hisuian Avalugg, since I think that even if to completely forget it even has a regional form, Pokemon, it didn't feel right. So instead, I'm controversial picks, I'd say they're probably the but these two are so easy to slip your they're incredibly weak, they're not noteworthy going for them really. But hey, with Legends ZA them that much-needed third stage or a Mega and While I haven't done the math, I've always of one stage Pokemon, which is never a good Some Pokemon have features unique enough to while something like Bruxish benefits it's hard to forget. Even if Komala has a pretty very forgettable, but I think there's one Pokemon Comfey just has nothing going for it. It's such also very unsympathetic, if you get what I mean. but in a way that makes you feel sorry for Comfey doesn't have that at all. It's Moving on to Galar, where we can honestly keep Pokemon that, in my eyes, is a top contender for you, this was the first Pokemon I ever encountered multiple decades worth of them and I still forget it is. Sure, Indeedee is incredibly forgettable, dubious title, but Pincurchin... Pinchurchin is on forgettable mountain and it pulled the ladder up would never be another Pokemon as forgettable Elgyem and Beheeyem, but I'm doing it again: if please leave a comment and explain I just need to know whether I am ragging on truly found the exception to that old statement Anyway, let's move on to the final Generation, time has passed after all. I mean, I know full-odds Shiny Pokemon, but my memory isn't from Paldea. Especially those with relevant and Bombirdier desperately needed. If those big trouble. Cyclizar is saved thanks to its means I am once again looking at a small evolution ever heard anyone talk about Rellor and Rabsca. I fans by now, some in larger numbers than others without seemingly anyone who's really rooting me by and I do admit it's not like I've seen a but Rellor and Rabsca do feel even less memorable whether they'll actually end up as the most But yeah, those are the names I would say Which species often slip your mind? if you... can remember them, that please consider giving it a like and subscribing Pokemon content coming up. For now, thanks