- Make sure that you spend time on things that give you a lot of return. Don't spend time on things Picking up a new skill can If you just try and improve the effect over many years Every day, try and just That you're not too young, you're not too old, to do something. (soft upbeat music) Before we even get started, I wanna emphasize that you You need to believe that you You need to believe that and the capability to do this. You need to ignore the haters. You need to ignore the at school or at other times in your life, that you can't do it. You need to get your and believe in yourself. And I'm telling you, you can. If I can do it, you can do it. I can't tell you the number of people that have told me during my life, or over the years of my life &quot;David, you can't do it. &quot;David, I'm putting you into this box. &quot;This is the kinda person that you are. &quot;You can't be this person. &quot;You can't be a YouTuber &quot;You can't be an instructor &quot;because you're not intelligent enough. &quot;You don't speak with the right accent, &quot;you don't have the right education,&quot; et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Ignore those haters. Ignore those people. Go out there and make What are you gonna do in In this video, I wanna talk that you need to get in It's really important I've said this many, many times and I've done this many, Look at what the hot trends and ride them. So I wanna talk about sort of five areas that I really think you should look at if you haven't already in 2023, and then look at the to ride those waves. You can't change the past, but And for me, that's what I love about You don't need a fancy degree. You don't need fancy contacts. You don't need to be part of a to get somewhere in technology. If you put in the effort, in a few years you can change your life because technology is Look at me. I got my CCIE maybe 20 years ago. What was really, really or 10 years ago or five years ago, isn't really important The hot technologies of Things are constantly which can make it harder, if you've been in tech for a long time, to keep up. But the great news for someone like you who's perhaps starting out in two years time you could be an expert in a specific sphere or niche if you like. Think about the blockchain. (screen clicks) Think about machine learning, AI. That is changing the world 10 years ago, 20 years ago, that wasn't really important compared to how important Jump on the waves, ride those Now, I'm gonna continue talking and giving you some but if you don't wanna Use the timestamps below It's important to remember that When you're starting out, it can be overwhelming because there's so much but I'm telling you now you don't have to try and Firstly, that's impossible. And secondly, there's just too much to The more you learn, the more you'll find it's easier or pick up additional skills, because a lot of it's interrelated. As an example, I have a strong For me to move into another because I've got a strong programming, et cetera. It's much easier to pick But I want you to remember and your path may change over time. You may be doing this today but then tomorrow you do and there's nothing stopping You could be the expert in this area and then tomorrow or in a few years time, you're the expert in another area because technologies change and you have to change If people tell you, &quot;You they've either not been or they've stagnated because You've gotta keep on reinventing yourself. You gotta keep on learning and changing what you're doing. If you told me five years ago that I'd have a million (crowd cheers) I probably wouldn't have believed you. You've gotta keep on and keep on learning. So to help you with that, I wanna talk about some principles. First thing I really believe You may not be able to control or what certain people I don't watch a lot of news because it can be really depressing. You can't change what people on the other As an example, I live in the UK. I can't change what the so I don't focus on that. I focus on the stuff that I can control. I can control my time. If you've got a job and you have to work a your boss could control that. But you may have some flexibility there to decide what you do with your time. And after work, what are What are you doing with - Work your ass off. There is no magic pill. It drives me crazy to go to the gym. You read one hour a day. I went and worked out five hours a day and I was working on Organize your day. Work hard. - As an example for me, and I'm not telling you that I don't watch television because it can be a huge time sink, as in take a huge amount of time. I'd rather use my time for other things. You need to decide and prioritize what's important for you. But the point is, is you You can decide where you spend your time. So don't spend time on things Rather spend time on things that will give you a long return. As an example, I learnt about networking and that's helped me over The stuff that I learned 20 years ago are still helping me today because it's a foundation Rather spend your time learning something that can help you for the future. Another important principle also known as the Pareto principle, 80% of consequences As an example, in business, 20% of your customers give If you make sure that you you're gonna have a far greater return than focusing your time As an example, if you watch a television program, just some kind of entertainment, that could give you relaxation now but what's the return on that? What's the long-term return reading a book that changes your mindset or watching a video that that could give you a return You could learn something about investing. You could learn something And that could give you return after return throughout your entire life. Make sure that you spend time on things that give you a lot of return. Don't spend time on things Picking up a new skill can As an example, learning a can be used for years and Once you learn how to code, you might use Python for or you may move onto another but you've got over a programming language. The return on that Learning Linux, as an example, can give you a massive Spend time on things that Don't spend time on things A book that I often James Clear in the book if you like, or 1% rule, that if you just try and improve the effect over many years Every day, spend a bit of time learning. Try and learn something new every day. And it's amazing how that and opens up opportunities for you. I've picked up many skills over the years. Some of them would be technical skills like networking, programming. Some of them would be business skills or just other kinds of skills So I have YouTube skills, I keep on learning, keep on trying to develop and that knowledge becomes exponential and can really change things. Another good book is &quot;Deep Work.&quot; Very difficult for some people, but often you need to Get rid of your phone, turn stuff like that. Put it away and make sure that you spend In other words, hard study. A term that could be I'm a content creator. Content doesn't get created or by looking at the I often turn off all notifications, block myself out from and try and spend time creating content where I'm not distracted. I need to turn off notifications because can you imagine me trying to create a YouTube video like this and then getting constant messages? I need to turn off the so that I can create content. Now, you may not be a content creator, but how do you think you're going to study something difficult if you don't turn off the notifications and spend time learning? You've got to do some deep work. Some books that I'd recommend &quot;The 4-Hour Work Week.&quot; Some people don't like the title but there are a lot of good Think about principles circle of control. Think about &quot;1%,&quot; &quot;Deep Work,&quot; great books to look at that can really change You need to make the effort, however, in 2023 to do things differently to what you did in the past. As that saying goes, &quot;It's insanity to do the &quot;and expect a different result.&quot; Make sure that you do something this year if you're not getting Now, this year, I'm doing it slightly I wanna talk about five core skills that you need to learn in 2023, if you don't have these skills already. And as always, please if you disagree with what I'm saying. Now, before I talk about I wanna talk about five paths. There's a lot of overlap with the skills that you would require The first path, which I think and something that I would if I was just starting my journey today, is data science, machine learning, or AI. Just recently ChatGPT has really blown up, lot of interest in this AI. If you really wanna ride the next wave, if you want to change your life, I would seriously look at data science, machine learning, AI. It doesn't matter which other Perhaps you're interested That's been a very hot AI can put you in a If you understand machine learning, if you understand data science, it can change your whole life. I would strongly suggest that you concentrate on that in 2023. And what I'm planning to do this year is create a lot of This will change many, many industries. It really has and it's gonna continue to do The ChatGPT software is just It's amazing what that AI can do. In my previous video, I put it in programming, in networking, and it was amazing what it can do. Have a look at that video But AI is gonna change things. Now, if that's not of interest to you, have a look at dev or programming. There is always gonna be in the world. Now, think about the devices that most people have with them. Could be an iPhone, could These devices run on software. People don't use their phones necessarily to make phone calls, they So if you're interested in I would strongly look at app development, specifically on iOS, Fantastic place to make a But perhaps you wanna write or Mac or other platforms, I've interviewed Dr. Chuck multiple times. Have a look at the videos below. He gives you a free path He'll teach you Python, he'll teach you C, he'll teach you SQL. He teaches you a whole bunch if you wanna become a developer. Perhaps you can't pay you don't wanna go and do have a look at his free videos which help you become a developer. Again, very, very hot in There's a big need for Many, many more jobs on the blue team side rather than the red team side. Companies need to be secure. There's always gonna be a need for people interested in cybersecurity, so that's a great place to look. Cloud is huge. Amazon, we've got Google, I would specifically look at Amazon if you're not sure which But cloud is big, only getting bigger. More and more companies from on-premise to the cloud, so have a look at the cloud. Another hot one to look at is blockchain. And I'm not talking about Bitcoin, I'm not talking about cryptocurrencies. Have a look at blockchain Now, you don't have to You could, for instance, be So perhaps looking at or helping companies Very good areas, but I wanted Have a look at APIs. They've become very hot in recent times. Some people will say, &quot;Well, &quot;so if you're a programmer, But I wanted to put this as a bonus because APIs are also really important with regards to cybersecurity. If you wanna become an ethical hacker, hacking APIs is a great place to start. APIs are used a lot in so APIs are really important. And let me talk about networking. It's very sad for me to say this but I don't think networking for the coming years. - [Crowd] Aw! - It's become very mature. It's a great stable place to get a job but it's not high growth. So if you wanna ride the get into the hot stuff, then It's really important, used but it isn't the hottest If you wanna go for a hot trend, have a look at data science Have a look at some of Networking, I would say but not high growth. Another bonus is IoT, Internet of things. I mean, are you gonna become a developer that writes code for IoT? Perhaps you're gonna and hack IoT devices. These devices are just We have smart homes. The lights that I'm using here Smart devices are taking over the world. More and more devices, et cetera, et cetera, are becoming smart. If you're into hacking, again, or perhaps coding. So there are five paths that Now, let's talk about the five core skills that you need to get. Let's say you're interested or you're interested in cybersecurity, any of these spheres, one of the foundational Now, I've been saying this for years. Learn Linux. Learn Linux. Learn Linux. And I'll still say it in 2023. Learn Linux if you haven't The world runs on Linux. If you're into hacking or cybersecurity, think of Kali Linux, think of Parrot OS. Just think of the tools that you need. They run on Linux. If you're into machine If you're into networking, networking devices often run Cloud runs on Linux. I mean, I can just repeat You need to learn Linux. This is a paradigm shift Don't be a consumer, be a creator. When you learn to code, because you can create your own tools. You're not limited by the tools available that others have created. Best programming language to If you haven't got any coding But very soon after that, Rust is the language I if you're serious about If you're in cybersecurity, if Python is a great place to start. Great place to, you know, learn. It'll really help you in your career. But also have a look at Golang, have a look at Rust soon Now, another foundational Basically, the world runs Internet of things means networking. Cybersecurity means that you You don't need to become a CCIE like me. You don't have to become even CCNP, if you're not interested You're perhaps interested but you need to have an You need to understand an IP address. You need to understand port numbers. Have a understanding of networking Important in cybersecurity just to understand what a or what an IP address is. The cloud foundational skill, once again, it's one of the hot training becoming more and more mature. You need to learn about the cloud. In the old days, we used to install applications now we put them in virtual machines. And that gets me to the And that's changed now so containers have become really hot. So have a look at virtualization. Make sure you have an appreciation or understanding of virtualization. If you work in cybersecurity you're gonna wanna run in a virtual machine. You need to understand But you may wanna take it a step further and put that in a container Make sure that you learn virtual machines, Docker and Kubernetes. Great foundational skills to learn in 2023 if you haven't learned them already. Lot of repetition of previous years here but this stuff is Right at the top, Linux. Make sure you learn a even if it's just Python. Make sure that you understand Make sure that you understand the cloud. Make sure that you As a suggestion, go and get the CompTIA So as an example, get Get Network Plus for networking. Get Cloud Plus for the cloud, et cetera. There are a bunch of that you can get. For networking, if you wanna focus on CCNA is still my recommendation. But if you wanna do cybersecurity, you may not be as focused on networking so Network Plus is fine for that. Moral of the story is: Read books, go on YouTube. There are many, many places to learn these skills. You don't have to pay a lot Okay, but what are you gonna do in 2023? Are you gonna put the effort in? Are you gonna put the time and change your life in tech? The responsibility is on you. You need to decide what I'm going to continue learning. I'm not gonna stop learning. You can't stop learning You have to keep on learning. And for me personally, areas that I'm gonna really and development. I wanna get back to the old, old days of me doing development. I also want to expand on but specifically AI. (soft upbeat music) I wanna put AI into different spheres. AI in cybersecurity, AI in Big focus for me this year. As always, I wanna wish you Go out there and make (soft upbeat music continues)