Mayday, mayday, mayday, mayday. These are the most dangerous waters This is a French fishing trawler. The water is getting more Constant streams of tankers sail by. There are plenty of rocks and gusts from the storm that could sink any ship afloat. There's a boat that's sinking. We're sinking. We're sinking. These waters, around the world, in northwest France. They're called the passage of Ushant. Each year, shipwrecks of dozens on board, and ecological catastrophes During stormy weather, professionals or just volunteers even if it means risking their own. Winters are their busiest time. In the Port of Brest is monitoring weather reports. On board, the Abeille's captain nicknamed Carlos, He's a legend in this town of seafarers, he's been involved with or led most As soon as the winds the authorities send us out. By then, there are storm warnings, close to the sea lanes. Now we're off towards Ushant, Carlos steers into position exactly Warning, strong gusts of wind Heavy swells from the west off the Cape of Brittany in the Atlantic. Close to Ushant, As he heads further passes an increasing number of local boats Sailors here know it's unwise Fishermen and yachtsmen After a one-hour journey, off the island of Ushant well protected by a natural rock barrier. Here, the tugboat is in its element ready to aid those in distress Over the past 20 years, Carlos has come of Ushant well. There are some very strong currents. There's mist and there's rocks and there are a lot of vessels merchant ships, of course. We weigh up all the factors and elements On average, there are about 150 vessels In the Cotentin area, and over in the [inaudible 00:04:36] So the more ships there are, of a collision. In order to avoid collisions, strict maritime traffic regulations. The boats heading west and those heading east so-called Ushant Sea lanes, ships are expressly Outside the zone, it's a different story, it's virtually a free for all. All sorts of vessels including the frequent channel ferries between France and England, that cast their nets that bear down on the sea lanes to the danger, container ships the chemicals and fuels that Europe needs. Monsters such as this, with as much freight They need at least ten kilometers From the bridge, visibility is zero. These huge vessels are often the cause At the helicopter base at Lanveoc and as the weather continues to close in, into action at any time. The weather as well, let's say it's 00:06:30]. The seas are now very heavy, what will happen in this area. Didier Gusmini, also known as Gus, Aged 50, Gus in the French navy. He's clocked up 6,500 hours in the air, in hundreds of rescue operations, Next door, meteorologist Philip Toneir that is threatening to get worse. What concerns him most which are a threat Some of them which are, well, can smash a plane in two. They're extremely violent locked up in those clouds It's exactly what you don't want Of course, inside there's also lightning, every kind of weather phenomena in this sort of cloud. The storm is increasing in intensity. Back at base, Gus is getting 40 knots out there, 290, rain, There's good radar indicators 50 knots? Well, easily 40 on average. In addition to the weather, A barge has slipped loose The rogue barge is 90 metres long, the size of a soccer pitch, that could easily sink a fishing boat At Marine Operation headquarters, usually out of bounds to the cameras. The crisis unit has gathered to take. The progress of the storm It's a potential danger well, you can imagine something it could crush just about anything. It could do some serious damage. The barge has to be brought under control, Gusmini and his crew On board the helicopter are five men, a diver. Out at sea, It's going to get pretty rough out there. We'll just try and monitor it. Every time Gusmini and his crew they know they're We really want to have to do this, It's a matter of being organized, on straight and getting down to business. It's not something every pilot could do, are experienced and are those We're trained for this. What are the qualities I'm not sure there are qualities as such, The Abeille is on the scene, too. Its job is to tow the barge. Not an easy task, Luckily, the storm seems to abate. Weather conditions aren't quite as bad which is a good job. With a depression stopping just Gusmini arrives in the area. That must be the barge and there's the Abeille. Yes, that must be it. Abeille Bourbon gets into position. I'm going to reduce speed. The Abeille reverses into position. If she strikes the barge, she might sink. Gusmini hovers overhead, A few cable lengths away, The Abeille continues on its course. Gusmini positions his helicopter when the storm suddenly They're shipping water now. Damn it. Despite seven metre swells, I can see some lathes on board The tug is now just a few dozen meters Everyone is in position Vertical arrival. There are two phases. The first is for the helicopter on board the Abeille. Forward three meters, we'll pull them. Ready? Three, two, one. Pull. 80 feet, 90 feet, go left. 100 feet, 110 feet. 110 feet. 130. Good, we've taken them off the boat. Okay, here they are. Let's unhook them. The second phase onto the rogue barge. Before that, though, a diver on board heads down to secure the vessel. Buffeted by the storm, rising and falling seven or eight meters. 100 feet. Keep an eye on the Abeille. That's over there, right in the middle. Stop, ahead, vertical. Try and hold this position. 60 feet. The diver is going down, vertical. Any wrong move A meter to go. Platform's moving. He's down. Hook is loose. I'm bringing up the hook. Perfect. It's a real mess down there. The barge has been wrecked by the storms. Okay, she's ready. Get ready to descend. Now it's the turn of the technician to go down at the end of the wire. He's ready. He's outside and descending. Five meters. The diver from the chopper for making sure Stop, forward. Okay, the diver's got him. He's down and the hook is free. As far as Gus is concerned, is a complete success. In the meanwhile, the Abeille Bourbon The crew is preparing to launch ropes on the stricken vessel. To make this task easier, a short distance away from the barge. See how close That's impressive. They're not scared of anything, The rope is launched the barge secure the line. The barge is now attached to the Abeille The operation is a success. The shipping lanes have been made safe. The Abeille heads back to port Yet another mission In his career, he's helped save but also many human lives. How long have you been doing this? More than 30 years. Have you kept track of how many rescues Yes. I'm at 167, 168 with this one. But to Gus, what's important and saving the lives of sailors. The job of a pilot is to take his craft, carry out his mission and bring it It's a point of honor for me to head out and to bring everyone So that way, I don't have someone's wife one day and says, &quot;What did you do?&quot; For more than 20 years, Gus everyone safely back home, he's so respected The 32F is the Lanveoc squadron, crewed by a team These are exceptionally powerful machines, and in the worst weather. Here, we're really at the tip of France. It's a bit like the end of the earth. Obviously it's an important fishing area, Fishermen set sail in often Well, at least they know that we're here. So if they get into trouble, They're the ones Well, fairly often. Thiery is one such fisherman. He's been plying the waters and fish for more than 25 years. He started going to sea at age 14. He is now what is known as a fishing boss. The boat belongs to him On board, there is plenty It's a dangerous job. We spend, I don't know, 75% of our time on water. The majority of the French people We can do 35 hours Hard work and sacrifice since fishing and feed Thiery's family. At sea, the saying goes, life gets harder Thiery and his small crew and two nights non-stop, always on their feet. We do work really long hours sometimes, I've known one guy who suffered a fracture caused entirely by tiredness. He was so tired he broke a bone, just from being tired. There's other things too, like your back. Our backs are strained so there are lots of sailors Plus, we're always wet, So our bodies get run down after a while. Not to mention the dangers from storms, Thiery doesn't need the weather forecast Sure, if there are thousands of seabirds that's a sure sign of bad weather. Then there are what we call the birds that come out in bad weather. Then you really know On this particular afternoon, A few hours later, Each wave is a struggle. Thiery is worried Put this one. Take yours off, Fred. But work has to continue. Fishing requires the same rhythm of work, regardless of the weather. Fishing nets are to the stern, the boat in such conditions. Safety measures are basic. No life vests. No harnesses. This is the kind of weather to accidents on fishing boats. Thiery and his crew It's essential to take extra care for some of the huge vessels A few moments later, a huge transporter 200 metres long Any collision and the damage We don't exist as far as he's concerned. You have to be more and more careful as the crew members and ships like those With 15 nationalities there's only sign language It's not the best solution. At nighttime, the risks are greater still. Little visibility like most fishing masters, it's Thierry There seems to be no other traffic, to chat to other fishermen You're usually all alone in the bridge. So it's a way of having some sort of company. We kid around sometimes. A little further south the pilots are scrambling. There's an alert and the Falcon pilots We've been told we need to assist that's providing emergency to an injured sailor from a fishing boat. He needs to be taken to hospital An injured sailor at sea. The boat is too far out, an airlift is the only viable solution. The Falcon 50 readies for takeoff. It will soon reach the fishing boat. Sea rescue missions The Falcon takes off first A few minutes later, The Falcon will provide the chopper to enable the injured sailor to be saved. At the Lanveoc helicopter base, military medic Dr. Christoph Bombeir is getting ready. What do you know Well, I know he's 41-year-old fisherman when a huge wave knocked him down. We know he's badly hurt his knee, we can't tell until we get on board. The crew is ready to take off. The pilot issues the latest information It's a 23-metre fishing boat. The waves are at five meters, We have two and a half tons which in theory means As for the rest, there's a falcon in 2 minutes from Lorient, and let us know what It's a typical rescue mission, it's a challenge At the back, the noise is such communicate by sign language. The Falcon has taken off heading due north. On board the Falcon it spots the fishing boat. She's called The Laura. The Falcon makes radio contact. The helicopter arrives on the scene. The pilot asks The Laura's captain to facilitate the rescue. Hello, this is the helicopter. Please head 280 degrees at five knots 280 at five knots. Laura, from the helicopter, I'm going to allow a diver Then, depending a basket in which to airlift him off. I have visual contact. Copy that. Yes, to visuals. It's rolling a bit. 20 feet and probably 15 knots. To evacuate the injured fishermen, what is known In other words, as it sails forward, by no means 40 feet, vertical is good. At the end of the winch, the diver, to later help the doctor down. He's on the bridge. Unhooked. Dr. Bombeir is lowered onto the fishing boat. He's down. The doctor heads straight and to determine We're at 67. We'll soon have been flying for one hour. Fuel consumption is good. The machine is functioning properly. The injured man is on the bridge. The doctor has strapped his right leg airlifted up with a diver. No need for a basket. The doctor is the first to be taken off for the injured man. The sailor is called Serge-Luc Alves. It's the first time the accident caused by a huge wave We're removing the strap We'll follow on behind. Airlift terminated. We're taking the injured person to Brest. [silence 00:31:04-00:33:00]. Dr. Bombeir will brief the hospital staff for the fisherman. Well, it was really heavy seas He tripped over a board He says he felt something snap. At the end, we're part of the mission. As far as we're concerned, we're finished. I have briefed the doctors and everything's fine. Good luck. So let's get ready for the next call. Sunday night, and it's not over yet. Was his injury serious? Well, clinically speaking, He'll need X-rays, though, there's nothing really wrong. He'll need to rest his leg Yes, I'd say about three quarters are similar to this one. We'd better go now. The X rays show a triple fracture Fishermen are often the victims Ports across Brittany and many families have lost loved ones. This is Guilvinec, in Brittany. Over the years, from this port have been lost at sea. Marguerite's husband perished in 1973. Time, however, the pain of loss. Within a few minutes of the accident, the mayor and all sorts of people What time was it in fact? It was 10:20 in the morning, precisely. I look at that quite often. It's still painful to me. When you see all these people it's quite something, you know? Quite something. What's this here? Well, when they come and tell you then you wonder what you've done to deserve this. Marguerite's husband was a fisherman when it was sunk by a Soviet cargo vessel. It disappeared with all hands. The worst thing is When they find something, Otherwise, you always ask yourself, that he might come back someday, Albert Marguerite had been married The oldest boy is now also a sailor, I tried my best to stop him I tried everything. Everything. I even went into a depression, to try and make him change his mind. I saw all the experts and doctors, he wanted to do. With her son at sea, Marguerite I never wanted to listen The radio, constantly tuned Marguerite is glued to the radio as is the case today. He started on the Commodore. That was the first one. He was just 16 years old. I said I wouldn't even buy another radio. I didn't want to have to listen to go through all that again. It was so long. It was seven years later. Seven years after what? Well, seven years when he started going to sea. The memorial to those lost at sea is in the Loctudy cemetery. These are all the boats On the other side, It's this one here, you see? When her husband Albert was killed, The latest plaque on the memorial which disappeared at sea three years ago. With each tragedy, Marguerite is reminded It's like it's all happening over again. Every time there's a boat that sinks? Oh yes, every time, it's the same. I get goosebumps, You always hope it'll be the last one, You see there's still plenty The fishing trawler Bugaled Breizh went missing on the 15th of January 2004. Debris from the ship but the bodies of those missing Human error, collision, Some say a submarine Despite an inquest, the disappearance More recently, another fishing boat, sank off Cherbourg. The port was stunned by the news. Just a few hours after the news the father of the captain loses all hope. I'm waiting for them to find my son. After that, well, I'm sure It couldn't be anything else. There are no rocks down there. Well, I'm really cross for me because these stupid things So other ships will come along. It'll always be like that. It's just the way it is. Of the crew of five, The survivor, almost by miracle, the youngest crew member. For as long as he could remember, Since the incident, This is where we would dock, right here. He's never spoken How long were you on board the vessel? Well, I worked on board for nine months. We were five lads and the crew, every day, just about. We would leave with the tide. Whatever time the tide was, Then when I was having a nap, and I was thrown out of the berth. Then I'm not really sure I suppose I managed to swim and then I reached the surface somehow. There, I only saw one other lad. I don't know what. The others probably were unconscious. I don't know. I couldn't hear them, It was Oliver. I tried to reach him, but I couldn't. He was yelling and hanging onto a float. He was drifting further and further away. So I decided to try and swim out to him. I jumped back into the sea as I could to swim out to where he was, At that point, I went back to the life raft and got back in. I knew he was in danger, I couldn't hear him anymore. There was no yelling. I couldn't hear him anymore. Oliver and the rest of the crew From the moment I was in the life raft, about God and stuff like that. All at once, I found religion. I was repeating, &quot;My God, I was alone, just waiting to die, I go down with the boat?&quot; I should have, I was thinking. Do you think if a cargo vessel hits you, they would have felt something? They must have, was a small boat, it was still about 60 tons. So you'd think they would realize. Yes, they'd have felt something. They should have stopped at least. Does that make you angry? I was cross you think, well, it should stop and check, try and help or something. You think my friend might have been saved. Then you just see it carrying on, leaving. How big was it? What kind of cargo vessel was it? It was big. It was huge. When you're in the water anyway, Compared to us anyway, it was huge. How far away was it when you saw it? It was only about 20 meters away It was plowing straight ahead Nothing was going to stop it. It was just going straight on. Yes, it was like we are the ones out of the way. The guilty ship is assumed a freighter flying the Maltese colors. On its bow, that match those of the Klein Familie. The wreck of the trawler has been filmed but cannot be shown that are underway. The lawyer for the Klein Familie What you see is a ship a boat that's been violently struck, which means the Klein Familie but indeed the very opposite happened. The bridge is totally destroyed, and the fishing gear So three days after the collision, was still functioning. This proves the Klein Familie If the ship that crashed into the trawler and had a proper watch, The incident is the subject where the freighter was registered. Until the trial begins, Every time a fishing boat returns to port, breathe a sigh of relief, Marguerite was always anxious You used to come Always, all the families, when they weren't at school, and wait for Dad. The Laura is coming back to port today and the wives It was The Laura that had called in the rescue services to airlift its injured sailor. When they leave, it's awful, I mean, after all, If it was just two or three days, but two weeks is a long time It's hard, very hard for the wives It's hard for everyone, and it's absolutely awful. Hi, Rambemy. How are you? How was it? Nasty weather. Very cold. Still, the sun's shining now. How is Serge doing? Well, it'll be another month or so so he'd have been out of action Well, on a two-week long trip, There were things that break down, Someone who gets hurt is less common, You've just got to keep going There's a lot of stress. That's why we always look forward We hope they can help us relax, Yes, but you're at home that we can't really take care of you You sort of lose the habit. Time on shore is always brief. A few days later, another accident means At 3:00 in the morning the Ece, a freighter is struck by another ship. The 22 strong crew is airlifted to safety British helicopters This time, no one is hurt. In the Ece's hold is 10,000 tonnes of phosphoric acid. A potential environmental catastrophe Early morning and Didier Gusmini are deployed to the deserted vessel. We're going to drop some experts on board The chemical is extremely dangerous. There's a risk of pollution then? Oh yes, definitely a big risk. Carlos is part of the rescue mission. The captain of the Abeille is called upon whether The Ece can be towed back to port You just don't know. The freighter could sink within the hour We need to find out and to see what measures need to be taken. The divers will investigate how bad and see what can be done, whether the chemicals on board into the sea. A 30-minute flight and the helicopter At first sight, The acid seems to be still in the hold, It doesn't look good, does it? It must have taken a real whack. Bloody hell, it doesn't look good at all. A few hundred meters away a 200-meter-long Maltese freighter with the Ece in the middle of the night. The Argonauts, It's equipped with underwater cameras to determine the risk of pollution of the ship that ran into it. French Navy divers film the ship's hull, The Ece has been eviscerated. Towards the stern, and acid is slowly leaking out. The situation is critical. With nightfall approaching, of being struck a second time Are you ready? Cables are launched as the Abeille and tow it to shore. All seems to be proceeding well, to the port of Cherbourg. 2:00 in the morning, are woken to be informed that is maneuvering close to The Ece issued by the authorities. We're off. They need to scramble. The latest news is extremely worrying. The ship continues to zigzag It's changed its course now by 3:50. What's its latest position? Do you have it? As of 2:30? Yes. The Ece is not the only boat in danger. The ferries that connect France the section of the channel. On board, hundreds A collision with the errant ship The rescue mission has to locate it possible. Reducing altitude, 130 feet, 55 knots, at 100 feet. The vessel is soon spotted. It appears to be a Dutch fishing boat. Its coordinates are passed on on the mainland. It's a small fishing trawler. I'm somewhat astonished I can see no one on board. Anybody seen anybody down there? There's no one on the bridge, and the boat's name The crew might be asleep. Stefan tries to rouse them on the radio. [foreign language 00:54:20]. Still no answer. [foreign language 00:54:30]. No answer. So the powerful spotlight [foreign language 00:54:46]. Finally, there's a response on the radio. [foreign language 00:55:03]. The boat has been identified I guess the person on board about the radio, so he kept communications That wouldn't surprise me. Is that it then, Well, pretty much in this case, We know it's a fishing boat. We'll make some inquiries, who it is, and what it's up to. This time the boat won't be sanctioned, and it could be detained. At sunrise, the Abeille, towards Cherbourg, is on its own. The freighter has sunk overnight. Well, last night at about 10:00, really listing badly, and at that point, It lay on its side and stayed afloat and then it finally sank at 3:38. The Ece is now 70 meters below the surface threatening to leak out of its hold. Both British and French authorities We're checking that there's been no spill, So the ships, helicopters and planes, are going to be patrolling the area the pollution. If there is, So you can tell just by looking Yes, indeed. Any hydrocarbons or pollutant and it's easily visible from the air. So far, there's no slick, The Argonaut will be carefully monitoring The chemist is at the exit. It's a navy chemist who will lead the operation. He's down. Water from the area is collected in the tubes So far, the tests are negative, The surface area around the wreck to this day. At Courson, near Brest, the Regional Rescue Operations Center, around the clock on radar screens. Each dot represents a ship. Some ships are highlighted in green, The orange ones are the ones This could include coal, But on this morning, from a pleasure boat What does the boat look like? Small cabin. Okay, small cabin. No rudder controls. Six meters long. Color? We'll take care of it, We might need to get in touch The CROS messages all boats in the area was last seen. We are searching for an [inaudible 01:00:00] class boat, Please keep an eye open for this boat. Report any information you may have. Thank you. We're heading towards Saint-Mathieu. We'll take a look around there, towards the coast, unless Okay, great. I'll stay on 67 on that frequency. I'll listen out for any more news Do you have anything up in the air No, we haven't seen anything yet. We're looking for a missing boat. It'd be nice to have some air support. Calling boat at position 48 degrees, 12 minutes north. Identify yourself, please, on channel 16. Over. Still no answer. The only call he seems to have made to say he had a problem With no working engines, It could be floating helplessly risking being crushed by a larger vessel. The picture of the missing boat and the CROS The boat must be found If the person on the boat he'll have the next morning. The temperatures drop So unless he's got he's going to get really cold. Then a Coast Guard vessel reports We've found the boat. They'll sort it out on the spot with him Roger that. To tell him back. Each case becomes personal, really. It is a missing person, after all. So when they're located, Even after five or six years and even after hundreds of such incidents, and never calls in to say, &quot;Here I am, At the CROS, every call is a potential emergency, A few weeks earlier, the center launched after an unusual phone call. Well, we got a call from someone in Paris from a Polish friend of mine in Poland, to say his boat In fact, the story was absolutely true. As the pictures show, was in the middle of the busy sea lanes. By a miracle, in this dangerous waterway. Back home in Warsaw, Janusz Kapitosky, A veteran of the Polish Navy, when disaster After six months just as he was entering his boat was struck by several huge waves. The first wave overturned the boat I was able to use the pump in about 10 minutes. Then there was a huge wave It knocked me down and the next thing I found myself in the water. Despite the storm, I was able to swim back The mast, unfortunately, had been broken, A few hours later, Janusz He was sure he was about to be saved. In the distance, I saw a freighter Naturally, I fired off my distress flares The ship was getting closer, a couple of hundred yards, then 100. It kept getting closer, I could see the crew on the bridge. They were talking and laughing, screaming at the top of my voice. I managed to send up a second flare. The whole sky was lit up red but the ship just sailed on by. In fact, I was lucky Alone in the middle of the ocean, Janusz Luckily, it was still working, The only number I knew off by heart my wife. When I got the call from my husband, He told me to stop crying and get a grip of myself. I decided, yes, he was right, Then I looked for the numbers. I found those and I rang. Barbara doesn't speak French, who in turn alerted the CROS. We ordered up a Navy Falcon 50 aircraft and it found a sailing ship After 10 hours in the water, it was Janusz's first ray of hope. I noticed that the plane It circled over me I was sure then at this point and I was about to be saved out there in the sea. The Falcon radios the closest ship which is not an easy maneuver. The seas were quite strong at the time for a small boat. We had found it. We had its exact position from the rear navigator. At that point, we were concerned or would not be able to maneuver in time Despite the bad weather, the freighter It was even more skillful in order to align itself properly the skipper up on board from his boat a rope ladder along its hull. You can see how small my yacht to the freighter. I could see the man who was coming I thought I'd never make it. It was a long climb up, believe me, The waves would lift me five or six metres even below water. The skipper's body temperature was 35 degrees, and he was in a state of shock. So we radioed the CROS and they decided The first medical attention He still remembers the moment well. When I finished my examination, I told the diver, &quot;Okay, So we helped him up Then there were cheers the sailors and the Pole well, you knew that they knew a life had been saved that day. Even today, I can't really find to express all my gratitude. They were real sailors, these people. It was their determination It was and still is It makes me cry just to think about it. Amateur sailors are not the only ones by sudden bad weather. Trinite-Sur-Mer is the home port one of the best sailors in the world of the Route du Rhum Bourgnon has been sailing in the waters He knows them well. Listen, the weather around here The sudden are tides, As the saying goes, around Brittany, in the world. It's one of the toughest areas Bourgnon is tough. More than 20 years ago, across the Atlantic in a hobby, with no equipment on board whatsoever. It bordered on lunacy. I encountered several storms on the way, that crashed down on top of me. Extremely violent, Just pray, and that's when the fear A few years later, of the best skippers in the world by winning several single handed races. A large part of the work to keep the boat on course and to focus on what the vessel is doing So if you stop concentrating, things can go really badly. In 1996, he takes part On the fourth day, the rescue services from Laurent Bourgnon. His trimaran has been overcome by a storm. There were heavy seas. We were just in front and about 24 hours later, a Filipino freighter, which was the ship nearest to me and in a quite remarkable managed to send me a large rope up onto the freighter. The crew was really fantastic. I had a great welcome. They treated me wonderfully. You see, because you're just a small thing there. So this kind of camaraderie is fantastic. When you're sailing single handed, So it was great to get That's something you should never forget, back in Paris, sometimes you do. Today, Laurent Bourgnon but he still sails Okay. Take care, guys. He's never forgotten his rescue at sea. It's not just the professionals In every port in Brittany, to save those in peril at sea. These are the volunteers No storm ever stops these men Oh, it's good for your health. At the wheel is With him, Bakers, teachers, They are all volunteers. The guys with me here are volunteers. They want to be here, Each man in this crew has saved the life Their specialty seems to be rescues helping those whose ships as these library pictures A few minutes later Back on land, Ginou He agrees to be filmed, A rescue mission It might be us one day. It could be your brother, It doesn't matter who it is I believe all sailors around the world It's a tradition that unfortunately, no sailor would want to leave Despite their courage, sometimes can only do so much. Once quite by chance, that had been turned over, was a child. His father was still alive. We warmed up the survivors. We took some of them home for the boy and the others. The next day they were found. It was a ship from Saint-Malo It wasn't a good experience. It brought tears to our eyes, actually, had held his boy's hand for 7 hours Just thinking of that and knowing thinking, &quot;I've lost my son.&quot; It must have been terrible. In churches throughout Brittany, there are memorials to those lost at sea. The rescuers remain modest, though. The sea is dominant So occasionally we do get the worst of it. If we try to get smart, because I know that I will win.&quot; When the sea is calm, Ginou spends time He's been doing this for more than 20 years. I don't think we're playing with death. No, I've never really felt scared. Worried, of course. Shaking hands, wobbly legs, You have to overcome it. It's just in your head. That's where panic sets in, the more trouble you'll find yourself in, I've never really been scared It's afterwards and I think, &quot;Well, that was close, too close maybe.&quot; In 1986, some of the volunteers We lost five friends. We never really knew They left one night to go that had asked for assistance. The weather was bad, five or six-metre-high waves. It was a bit like this morning. They then lost power on board, a blackout, that you're in heavy seas like that, Five crew, five dead. Every time Ginou leaves port, volunteers like him who died trying to save others. Whenever I go past here, of a close family member. There was a strong current and heavy winds onto the rocks in just a few seconds, Because later they found the chain it had been not strong They even tried to put their life The ship was tossed It turned over and just broke up. We found the wreck over there behind that. You always think of them Of course, yes, always. This winter, off the coast of Brittany, more than 1,500 times. They saved dozens of lives, and there were no ecological disasters