Transcriber: Leonardo Silva I do love water. I love to swim, to surf, and even to drink water. And do you know why I love water? Because I am water! Two thirds of our body is made of water. And because of that, for the last fifteen years, kind of since high school, I have been studying water. And I have a secret to tell you: water is weird, pretty weird. OK, it's weird, but it's also and fortunately, 70% of the planet is covered with water. But unfortunately, just 1% is clean water, 1% is water And that's too little. Today, one in six people has lack of fresh water. And in 2050, it will be one in two people with lack of fresh water. Either you or me will have lack of fresh water. So, the world needs fresh water. Please, don't panic, because today I'm going to tell you how we can use the weirdness of water to help us get more fresh water. So, you see, water is very important. But when I tell people I work with water, they usually say to me, We know everything about water.&quot; Even my mom tells me this. But that's not true. Water is not simple, and you have many things in water that we still need to understand. OK. You're not convinced. Let's compare water with another material: with silicon. Silicon is also abundant on the planet. 28% of the crust of the Earth And silicon also has And the fact that silicon and that we have learned how to use allows us today to have cell phones, computers, flat screens and all these instruments And, you know what? Silicon has just half a dozen anomalies. Water? Water has seventy. Yes, 70 anomalies. So, it's our duty to find ways to use these anomalous behaviors of water to have more clean water. So, how are we going to do that? Before answering this question, let me introduce you to two The first anomaly is the density anomaly. Most liquids contract under cooling. Water does the contrary. If you cool water, it expands. And that's why ice, floats into liquid water, because ice occupies more volume, and it floats on the liquid surface. But much more interesting is the fact that zero-temperature water floats in four-temperature water. See the beauty? When you have winter you have ice, followed by and far, at the bottom you have the warm four-centigrade water, with fish and plants surviving. If water was as common as other materials, in the first winter, in the glacial time, it would freeze and all life would be killed. It's not that cool -- literally cool. So, now I come with the second anomaly. The second anomaly and it's related to mobility. Water, when it's denser, its molecules move faster. &quot;OK, OK. Marcia is saying I know that when I have the cars move slower. When I have more people people move slower.&quot; Water, when you have they move faster. Is not that bizarre? So, come one, For that, I'm going to give you So, water is composed of and two hydrogens. And inside the water molecule, the interaction But between molecules the hydrogen-bond interaction. So, what's the difference Covalent is very close, is very strong and is very tight. Hydrogen bond is further apart and is twenty times weaker. OK? So, covalent bond is like marriage, or is like [what] marriage You know, the particles and they're very tight. Hydrogen bond is more like flirting. You are more distant, you flirt everywhere. OK. Now I got it. I got it. When I decrease the temperature I have all the particles together, and all the hydrogen bonds made. So, I'm further apart. like frozen, I don't move, but I have the hydrogen bonds. I heat a little bit the system, and particles can actually approach, and that's why ice floats into water. But how does this increase mobility? Easy. It's easier to flirt in a crowded party than to flirt in an empty party. So, that's why molecules when they have more particles, making bonds, disrupting bonds, making bonds, disrupting bonds. Isn't that cool? (Laughter) But, you know, not always hydrogen bonds are a good thing. This deep and great love might make water end up in bad company. Water might make bonds or something that makes water So, the bonds are not always and, actually, the industry uses to throw away the waste or to produce things. More industry, less clean water; more people, more need for clean water. So, now you can see why in 2050 we are having you without clean water you know, because we need in order to get more clean water. And that is where the anomalies Years ago, we found that the very same mechanism that makes water move faster, also makes water flow faster when confined in nanotubes. Let me explain what I mean by faster. In nanotubes, water flows 900 times faster than it would flow if the laws of physics that govern the sinks in our houses governed the nanotubes. So, water loves to be in these nanotubes. It enters and just ballistically flows. But salt doesn't. Salt hates nanotubes. It has to undress to get inside the tubes. So, it doesn't like nanotubes. So now, if you combine and the hate of salt, you have thousands as the perfect filter water that we actually have This is a possibility, when nanotubes become Great! However, and there's always a &quot;however&quot;, I don't live close to the sea. So, how can I get more fresh water, if I don't live close to the sea? So, a few months ago, when I couldn't sleep seeing, you know, weird animals, etc., I came across this beetle from the desert of Africa. This animal is capable transform it into liquid water Come on, how does this animal does that? On the back of the animal, there is an upper surface in which there are molecules And they love it so badly that they transform vapor into liquid -- which actually requires energy. And then, there is a second layer So, when the particles of liquid water they just slide, as when which you covered with And then, the animal that he just leans to the front and water just comes Isn't that perfect? Nature is perfect! So now, our group is developing a combination of those two mechanisms. We have water in nanotubes, flowing fast. The top of the nanotube loves water and the bottom and we're going to use that and into storage. So, stay tuned. And, years from now, water in nanotubes will solve the problem of lack of fresh water on the planet. Thank you very much. (Cheers) (Applause)