(suspenseful music) (police siren) (engine revving) (dramatic music) (soft music) - What's up, everybody? It's Enes here, and from Palm Jumeirah, Dubai. Today, we're checking out another one of Alpago Properties developments. Beautiful modern design. Rooftop deck. Subterranean garage. Amazing views. This house has it all. It features five 16,963 square feet of enclosed area, built on a 15,836 square foot lot. And it is currently on the As always, you can find more in the description of this video, so make sure to check that out. And before we start our to the developer, Alpago Properties, and the listing brokerage, B1 Properties for giving us the honor to show And now, let's begin. (upbeat music) (water roaring) We're gonna start our Beautiful modern design. Second floor of this property All clad with travertine, and it really gives this I love these louvers that glass panels. Then you have the reed sections and the edges tapers off beautifully. Now, we also have stone Landscaping looks really nice, and you have the walkway taking you to the front door, two water features, and we have the driveway where we have the subterranean garage. That space is amazing. And this home consists of four levels, including the rooftop deck And lastly, we also have a small walkway that takes you to the backyard. That's your catering access, that way. If you throw events, if you throw parties, you have an easy access for cars to park and get close to your backyard. Lastly, we have the entry And now let's go inside. Here we are at the entry, key padlock, and come Right above, we have these linear marble Henge light fixtures that look gorgeous. And we saw the travertine and they brought the same but this time they picked ceramic tile to kind of replicate that look. Ceramic is more durable and On my left hand side, we It weighs around 2.5 tons, made in India, has this aged steel look, and goes all the way to the ceiling. And it really sets the tone as We have a ceiling mount Another art installation and between the we have these steel all the way to the ceiling, separating the entry from great room. And this great room is incredible. Custom furniture we have the coffee table four different natural stones contrasting nicely with each other, you have your sectional couch here, two chairs, sofa on that we have this custom chandelier which is not a small number. And I just love the lines, LED lighting, natural stone application, It looks gorgeous and Now this room is all about these views. Motorized sliding glass doors open up. These are from EuroSystem, and the particular brand And because of the thin profile, it feels like indoor is We have the amazing pool in the backyard right in front of us. And we're gonna see that Now, great room actually but before we go there, I wanna take you guys that goes to two rooms. We also have an art installation here that really brings texture to this space. Awesome great room. Now coming to this hallway, the first door on my left This space is located on the I wanna first talk about this desk set up. It's from Giorgetti and it looks like it I mean, it looks gorgeous. The stitching, the everything about this And chair also matches that. On the back, we have this glass art with these curved panels. On my left hand side, we have the motorized sliding glass doors opening up to the side of the property. That way you can access rather than going through the front door. And on top of that, we have these aluminum louvers And it's just a really On this side, we have looks great. And in between, you can see open shelving TV, great office, and we even have velvet wallpaper here. Great space. Now, right on the other side, I'm gonna start with the bathroom. Same ceramic tiles are also This really unique vanity And we even have a small LED lit mirror, agate accent Another agate piece on this side where we have the open shelving, hand beaded brass, lot of And we have the water closet here, walk in shower on this and it's a good size bathroom. Now, right on the other side, we have the bedroom. King size bed with this Above that, we have the agate looks great. We have the Poliform built TV right here, and more importantly, motorized sliding glass doors open up and connect this bedroom to the backyard and the amazing views. We also have motorized So I wanted to point that out. Great bedroom, nicely detached Now coming back to the entry again, we're gonna go to the other side. Great room is all open, and after, that we have the staircase. But first, I wanna bring Two details on this side. Number one, these columns are clad with This is the first time I'm seeing this. They call it caviar cladding. And it's basically these and they just covered which creates a really unique texture. And based on the color you can pick whichever color you like. Now let's come this way. We have two beautiful glass Same sand brass tones are also here. And on the other side There you go. Looks beautiful. Complements the dining area. And right next door, It's really interesting to see the way they designed this room. We have two vanity setups It's all agate stone. We've been seeing agate And this one has more of the black tones. Same for this vanity here. And then you have your with marble top. And on the back, we have this rocky wall design, and the mirror is actually both here and between the bathrooms. So there's a nice connectivity there. Lot of textures, lot of colors, beautiful powder room design. Now, right next to us, Beautiful marble table from Henge, seating for eight, and above, we have this marble light And if you, you look closely, you can see that it consists of five different light fixtures but they installed them so that it looks like a single piece. Now on the other side, and connect the space to the outdoors. And yeah, you have your dining area here right next to your seating area. Now coming this way, But before I talk about this section, I wanna mention, we have This elevator has glass And as you go up, you can rocky wall on the back, and a beautiful wallpaper Wanted to mention that. Staff access on this side. And now let's talk about the staircase. We've been seeing a lot of agate textures in this house so far, and they also utilize the same stone as the base for the staircase. Looks great. You have the treads taking all marble, glass railing, and they utilized the same They created this built in hand railing, and right in the center, we have this gorgeous Henge light fixture that goes all the way to the top floor. This is a statement piece. This is one of the first things you see as you walk into this property, and right in the center, we We have the same marble wall also here, but in between, we have with these small wall sconces kind of lighting it up and in this wall. Beautiful space. And we have a pocket door here This part of the home We're a little bit closer to the water. On my left hand side, doors And up front, we have the sliding glass doors open up straight to your staircase access that leads you to the beach. This space is super cozy. Sectional couch here, Bang &amp; Olufsen TV, and above, we have this really It's certainly bold. We have about 40 to 50 bulbs here with LED lighting inside, and it just gives ton of to the space. Now, let's go to the other side. We have the informal dining I also wanna mention the was designed by LW Design Group, and the interiors were I think they did a phenomenal job. House looks great. You guys saw it on the exterior, backyard looks even better. Now, informal dining area, Light fixture above really compliments this warm family room. And here, we have the kitchen. Now, this kitchen is really unique. We have the Poliform island on my left, and the entire space connects to the back where we have the chef's kitchen that we're gonna see in a bit. Coming to this side, GAGGENAU gas stove, oven set up down below, marble And you have rest of your appliances here. Oven set up, espresso maker, and I feel like if you're and you wanna leave GAGGENAU is definitely a way to go. Their appliances look absolutely gorgeous. Now coming here, we have the island. This island comes from Henge. Henge is a furniture manufacturer, so it's a really unique approach or a furniture company But in this case, they It's all marble clad. You have unique angles and cuts. Then marble veins and details Your drawers are so seamless. And if you actually look this is where we have the seam, because this island actually We have the sink on this beautiful details. I don't think we've ever like this before, minus the other Alpago in Palm Jumeirah. By the way, if you haven't checked that video already, make sure to check it out. We will leave a link in the description. That property's facing the other side. This one is facing this side of the front. They both look gorgeous. All right, that's it for the kitchen. We have the paneled and going in, we have the chef's kitchen. They also use the same Poliform cabinets. Also here with different oven set up, island in the We have the pop plug around the corner, and coming here, you have your sink, more appliances, great chef's kitchen, but more importantly, we which is a great amenity to have. Push of a button, you can push the food from this floor all the way to the rooftop deck that we're gonna see later in the video. Now continuing our tour, we Secondary staircase takes as well as the top floor. Again, this is access for the staff, and around the corner, we have an exterior door that opens up to the side of the property, laundry room, two its own AC unit, and around the corner, we have the first staff room. Two single beds, skylight above, and it comes with a full bathroom. Now, lastly, we have this door taking us back to the great With that, we're done with the main floor. Now, let's go outside so we (gentle music) We mentioned it on the exterior, you have a catering access straight to your backyard. And I mean, look at this. We have the pool right in walls of glass open up to the backyard. But first, let's cover where we have this cantilevered roof line. It's all clad with beautiful stones, little bit raised from the patio. And coming here, we have This is your gas grill. You have your cooktop, and looking at the rest this cantilevered design. Stone clad, aluminum We have a Patagonia quartzite here. And coming to this section, That looks so cool. And on top of that, Mikey, This actually extends out and serves as an additional And there you go. Looks beautiful. Now, on my left hand side, we have this lounging chair So it has this floating effect and it's just a great area swing a little bit, and we're about a hundred It's pretty awesome. - [Mikey] Yeah. It's really nice being Dubai is kind of known so it's nice to have the water there. Go jump in. We were in there yesterday - Absolutely. Or you can use your amazing pool, which is right in the Looks stunning. Before we cover this pool, I wanna actually talk about By the way, we have two outdoor and now let's talk about Beautiful modern design. I love how first floor and over a little bit. All clad with travertine. You can see the strip lighting and I just love to have a little bit as it comes close Just looks very minimalist, you can just open up and second floor to these amazing views. Now coming here, we have travertine on the floors, lounging chairs, outdoor seating areas. These sliding glass doors open that we toured on the main floor. These sliding glass doors Again, connecting the And right in front of us, It's the focal point of this backyard. Two Baja shelves, hot tub in the center. And this entire pool is clad with this beautiful natural stone that's actually precut and And on top of that, they spend a lot of time because down below us, we have the subterranean garage filled with amazing cars that Now continuing our tour, we have a small outdoor dining area, sliding glass doors open connecting you to the outdoors, and coming here, we're We have these really cool outdoor chairs. Two bonsai olive trees. These are fantastic. And coming to this section, you have a grass area on the with a sculpture right in the center. Your outdoor dining area. Look at the table set up here. Looks great. Really close to your And on top of that, you have the staircase here taking you down to this amazing beach. It's really fascinating to me that you walk 15 seconds and you have access to One of the things you always the importance of location. If you've been watching our videos lately, you know that we spending There's something The energy is electric and It was only 21 years ago that massive development of Palm Jumeirah. And today it's home to more It's not only the homes that but also the collection that lines this Crescent. As our team travels the globe, we get the opportunities to and most luxurious But Palm Jumeirah is From single family homes and high rises to the ultra modern city skyline, the Palm attracts the planet's most elite. Featuring the ultimate mix with incredible amenities, and continuous access of the Persian Gulf. Getting to jet board in the gave me an interesting perspective and it constantly blows my mind that somewhere like this exists. It's crazy. All this is man-made. We have the Dubai skyline Royal Atlantis here. And if you look at this frond, all the architecture or the new properties that are being developed and which is something we on the other fronds and this is one of the and this particular and turning back, I mean, look at the architecture of this property. It's truly stunning. Roof lines, walls of glass opening up With that, we are done on the Now let's go back inside so we can check out the lower level. (gentle music) Here we are on the lower level. We have this closed off section here, staircase on my right hand side, and going through this opening, we have this paneled wall. Behind that, utility areas, and there's also a hidden door here that leads you to your driver's room. Single bed on my right hand side, built in closet, and this door opens up to a full bathroom with a washer and dryer. And now, coming back to the car gallery, amazing space, beautiful And I really like these that they have around the cars. On the right hand side, we have the panel section and this space looks incredible. And having a subterranean garage like this in a home in Palm Jumeirah is quite rare. That's why this space is so special. You have the garage door opening up to this incredible area. And we currently have six you can probably stack parking them back to back. We have a really, really These cars are absolutely gorgeous. I mean, I can't take my There are only 40 of them in the world. This one costs around $10 million. They also gave us the key. I'm not gonna start this thing, I'm too nervous to even touch - [Mikey] Pretty awesome. - It's pretty awesome, right? - [Mikey] It's a little for my comfort, though. I wouldn't want to open that door. - I totally hear you. Now, right on the other side, we have the McLaren SLR 722 S Roadster. Only 150 of them in the world. Around $1.4 million. This car is also just as gorgeous. I feel like it's such a timeless car. - [Mikey] Yeah, we had a with their CEO Ali. They just have an incredible And First Motors is actually who owns Alpago Properties. - Absolutely. Their showroom is amazing. Make sure to check out the video. We'll leave a link in the Beautiful cars, beautiful homes. Now, right next to the Bugatti, This is also an amazing car. They also gave us the And let me go inside. I'm gonna see if I can fit in, actually. Just opening this door - [Mikey] little bit close to the Porsche. - Exactly. Alright, let's step in. Ah, it feels like I'm in a race car. Well, I guess I'm in a race car. Now, if I can find the start button, I'll start this car and- - [Mikey] Look above your head. (engine roars) - I mean, this is crazy. (car revs) - [Mikey] Sounds dangerous. - Okay. Wow. That was something else. And that's McLaren Senna. Oh, that was so much fun. Alright, moving on. Right next to that, we This one is around $400,000, and this one is the Weissach Edition. Next to that, we have a And next to that, we have I believe this one was James Bond movies. I know the first one is &quot;No Time to Die&quot;, but I can't remember the second one. - [Mikey] I think it was (snaps fingers) - [Mikey] Yeah, it was &quot;Living Daylights&quot;? - It was that one. It was that one. And beautiful looking We have a glass artwork here. And lastly, this Lamborghini around $100,000. Pretty crazy, looks great. I feel like this video is turning into a car review or car tour rather but hey, this is a beautiful big thanks to First Motors. And that wraps our tour Now let's go back to the staircase so we can check out the first floor. (bright music) Here we are on the first floor landing. Nice and spacious. Same ceramic tiles are also here. Staircase looks beautiful. We can get a closer look to and off of the landing, we And before we go check out I actually wanna take everybody this way. This door opens up to a small hallway where you can see the back staircase, and then this door opens Now, this is an interesting take. We don't see a whole lot of hair salons in residential homes. I believe we've only seen but regardless, this space looks great. We have the chair here, ceiling mount shelving here, back pattern looks great. You have your TV, mirror, we have a full bathroom and a walk in shower. Now let's go back to the hallway so we can continue our tour on this level. We have three bedroom suites on this wing, primary bedroom on my right hand side. But first, I wanna take you This is where we have the screening room. Now, you guys know we tour and screening rooms on this channel, and this is certainly not the biggest, but the way they designed wall installation, projector, art installation, it definitely feels contemporary. Matches the house really well. And personally, it does it for me. I would love to just lay enjoy this place. I mean, look at this. They even have Versace - [Mikey] Very nice. Not to mention, it is very cold in here. So crawling under a blanket sounds quite nice. - Absolutely. All right, Right on the other side, we have the first bedroom Definitely good size. King size bed. And by the way, all the comes with the sale of this property. I love these rose gold light And on the back, you have Above that, another unique texture. Poliform cabinetry here. I gotta show this detail. Every single one of these including Poliform hangers. I didn't even know they have hangers. - [Mikey] We've never seen that before. - Super nice. LED lighting, all that good let's go check out the We have a carbon fiber tub here. It's from SplinterWorks. They call it hammock bathtub. It's around $30,000 and it I've ever seen in any residential home. - [Mikey] Did they have to build the tub to fit in the room, or - Well, that's a good question. So they built the room to fit the tub. - [Mikey] Really? - Yeah. So architectural drawings, they got these walls just right where you can attach these because it's floating. So the weight of the tub and water and the person that's in it are carried by the walls on each side. Then you have your satin Massive picture window facing the views. This bathroom is just stunning. We have the modern pedestal sink here, more satin bronze fixtures, and then you have your water closet here. Great bathroom. Now, let's go back to the hallway so we can continue our tour. Additional Poliform cabinetry. These rooms are definitely good size. And coming here, we are We can see those louvers on the exterior. Views of Atlantis. It's pretty awesome. Now, right around the corner, This one also comes with a king size bed. Again, glass panel back Poliform cabinetry, fully and coming this way, full bathroom. Finishes are just like the Carbon fiber tub. Again, looks incredible. Views, walk in shower, water closet, and a modern pedestal sink. Now going back to the hallway, we have the junior primary bedroom suite at the end of this wing. Two and a half tons mounted from floor all the way to the ceiling. This is also incredible. And lastly, we have this door opening up for the junior Obviously, size changes quite a bit. King size bed, and look at the backside You have glass panels on the outside. Then you have leather Then you have additional leather panels, Henge light fixtures on the ceiling, as well as the wall here. Lot of unique materials and space just feels super warm. And every single room looks Push of a button, sliding We even have a balcony here connecting all the bedrooms and the louvers that we saw at the office, they have it also here. So you can break the sun a little bit or create a little bit more privacy. And they have these louvers pretty Now, I wanna face everybody this way. We have a water vapor fireplace here. It's not a real fireplace. It just makes steam and looks cool. They also have solar panels above, so they definitely kept And on the back, we have This is Calacatta Aura with and coming here, I don't It's some sort of like a jewelry box. It's from Roberto Cavalli. And Mikey, can we get a close up? Like, look at these details. The stitching, the wallpaper And it's gotta be 20, $30,000. - [Mikey] Yeah it's like a, almost like a traveling trunk almost, but really, really fancy, yeah. - Really nice one. - [Mikey] Yeah. Now coming this way, all Poliform built in closet and going this way, we have the bathroom. Now, we have a lot of details I'm gonna start with the vanity. Beautiful fabrication, And on the bottom, we have the cabinetry nicely curving with brass lattice on top. And the same curvature where we have the LED lit mirror. Looks great as a single unit. And on the left, we have the rocky wall texture where we have the open shelving. And coming here, free standing tub. The slab right here is bookmatched, but it's actually porcelain. This is one of the most I've ever seen in my life. Meaning it's a manufactured stone. And around the corner, spacious walk in shower We have the water closet great bathroom for the Now that's not it for this level, because right off the we have the primary bedroom Another incredible space. And since this part of the you're closer to the water, and it feels like you're Motorized sliding glass We have a Juliet balcony here, and this is the main balcony connecting the entire first We have the Royal Atlantis canal views, Dubai skyline, and they also have a It's just a great spot to sit down and just get lost in your Coming back to the room, king and the developers they actually ordered an but unfortunately, due they have not received it yet. It's one of the most they have in this house. So I wanted to point that out. Now, coming here, we have a painting that reflects And on top, they have this steelwork with this painting. Bang &amp; Olufsen TV. And lastly, on the back, we have this rocky wall and this really cool lighting installation that starts from the and goes all the way to the edge. Beautiful bedroom. And we have this door and the closet. Just like the rest of the home, it's all open facing the views, water closet and bidet on this side. And this is a tiger And this thing is just crazy. We were actually here a few months ago and we got a chance to see And when they showed me how did you guys even get It's massive, but it looks great. It's actually back lit. And around it, they which is basically a printed tile that creates this figure on And yes, this is your free standing tub. We have an AXOR fixture. And on top of that, because this tub is sitting right here and this section is they had to reinforce the structure to make sure this sits level and it never caves in. - [Mikey] Wow. - Amazing. And this is your open walk in shower. Another rain head above. These AXOR fixtures are This is the first time I'm and it looks great. Massive glass wall, great bathroom. I don't know how many times I said views, but more of these amazing views. Now, going back, let's cover the vanity. This is a really interesting setup here. It's stone fabricated. We have a drawer here, And on top of that, we have the bottom section and it just creates a nice creating some separation And then on top of that, you have this woman shoe heel that serves as a column on the bottom and serves as a dresser or Push of a button, it actually raises, and you have all the shelves, And on the left, since they have a cabinet with a mustache. Really unique design element, Now, that's it for the bathroom. Going to the other side, This entire closet system glass doors and drawers. Fully specced out. We have the island in the just a beautiful space. And on top of that, you have additional And it's actually key coded because it can also serve as a safe room. This wall is actually concrete, so you have a little Now that wraps our tour Let's go back to the staircase so we can check out the second floor. (gentle music) Here we are on the top floor. We have this open landing area here, sliding glass doors open But first, I wanna take On my right hand side, we have a small kitchenette, And coming here, we have two doors where we have the utility and all that good stuff. And on top of that, you can actually access the above this property from these areas. Now coming in here, we stone fabricated vanity with mosaic back wall, and this really unique mirror throughout the property. They have it here. Marble back wall. They even put some roses Now, before we get out, we have the elevator landing here right next to the powder room. Now let's continue our tour. We have this opening taking us to the gym. This is a really exciting on the top floor of this property. Sliding glass doors open Views are fantastic. It's all open. And of course you have All Technogym. You have your TV, mirror backed wall. I really like the strip lighting that they have on the ceiling. And on top of that, they have this really unique that goes down all the way to the wall. And coming in here, we beautiful satin bronze everything you need Now on top of that, I mentioned earlier, sliding glass doors open up. In fact, Mikey, can we hit it? - [Mikey] For sure. Here we go. - There you go. They're motorized. Push of a button. They just open up and connect I wanna step out for a second. On my left hand side, rooftop extends out. We have a seating area, planters, and going to the right hand side, we have the main part another outdoor seating And right next to that, we and look at the table set up here with the chairs, cutlery, details. It looks incredible. And on the backside, we have these beautiful steel planters that look so contemporary, so elegant. And we have the outdoor kitchen here. It's the same Novara kitchen You have your sink, gas grill, fridge. You even have a gas cooktop which is super cool. And this is the dumbwaiter that we have at the chef's kitchen. It comes up all the way to this level. You can just open it up and It's a nice convenience to have. House looks great. Sliding glass doors open these views are absolutely fantastic. Since we are near the end of a frond and close to the Crescent, the barrier island around the Palm, we get these wider canals, absolutely fantastic views. We have the Royal Atlantis on this side, Dubai skyline over here. It's just really exciting to be here, to get the opportunity to share this experience with all of you. And now, let's fast so we can see this place at dusk. (suspenseful music) Throughout my life and career, I've been around the world a few times. Each location, each city, A culture that goes beyond and into something else. Dubai always leaves me It takes me back to my youth, wondering what could be It's the ultimate example how quickly a people can into reality. Every year, tens of millions visit Dubai to bask in the As our team joins with them, we can't help but be impacted by the city's incredible For me personally, I leave Dubai with a clear vision and a renewed sense that (upbeat music) - All right, everyone. That's it for the tour. Hope you all enjoy this video. My hats off to Alpago Properties for doing an amazing job with this build. They always look for and set new standards in Dubai. And I believe they have I also wanna give big thanks B1 Properties for giving us the honor to showcase their listing to all of you. And if you want more make sure to check out the Lastly, if you enjoyed the video, make sure to give us a like, subscribe, and we'll see you guys next week.