- It was a very powerful example of a 10-year-old rock giving an age of 2.8 million years. It exposes the impossibility of using modern measurements now to be able to date something in the past. Mount St Helens has got a can happen quickly. That canyon was carved in less than a day and it was due to Mount - On a personal note, Taz, have you found much pushback when you talk about the (light music) Well, we're talking about get dated at 2 million years old? I'm here with Dr. Tasman Walker from Creation Ministries International. Tas, you've been to Mount St Helens. What does this place have - Well, it has to do with the 10-year-old rock that was dated at millions of years old. And Mount St Helens is a and it erupted in 1980. It's on the west coast of towards the north of the states, and it's very close to Seattle, also close to Portland in there. And when it exploded in 1980, there were 57 people Pretty tragic. The worst disaster that's But the thing about Mount St when the new lava dome started to form, we know when it happened, and so we're able to test for dating rocks, whether whether they really work. And there were some came out of that. Now, new lava dome, what Can you give me a picture? - The Mount St Helens had a traditional, really attractive point on the mountains. And when it exploded, the at the top got blasted off in the mountain. - And then the lava built great big blob of lava. And so that lava dome enabled what does it measure? If we do a radioactive date on it, does it give the right answer? That it was 10 years old and it was sent off to the - Okay, and so as they what have they come up with? - Well, the guy that collected the rock, he did some very interesting checks. They used a normal method, and it's widely used and there's a reason for that. It's believed that argon from the rock when the rock is molten. And so, it enables us to overcome with any sort of dating method. And so, when Mount St Helens exploded, the lava dome built up, and a guy called Dr. Stephen of the rock and he just did the normal - Okay. So, what they do is they crush the rock up and they send a sample to the laboratory and the of dating tests. And what Stephen Austin did of a certain mineral out of the rock, a light-coloured mineral called amphibole, and he sent a sample of And he did another sample and sent that off. So, he had numbers of different and he wanted to see And it came back, it was very, to what it was. - When he sent them off, where it's come from, and exactly when it was formed? - I can't remember if he told them exactly that in this case. Often that is required so the ballpark of where, what and how to calibrate, and how - Okay. But he probably told them that he expected very little argon. You see, the dating method of potassium into this argon. And so, you can make very in the present. But every dating method is that you can't go back in the past. And so, geologists, they but they don't know And they need to know that to It's like if you're using a stopwatch, and you need to start it, you know when it started, But if you didn't start it, or read the clock at the beginning, you can't know how long it at the end. So, that's the way they did it. - Okay, but they're all saying that they have these even though they're not able to go back, are they making assumptions? - Well, I could call it a guess. They're making a guess about what it was. Well, how else are you going to do it? We need a number. And so, in this particular case, that there was no argon in We know that that assumption but how would you know? So, you don't know if there's You don't know what was there It's just a big assumption And so that's what Dr He was doing a check on to see if there's a, you know, And that's what happened. It was 10 years from the explosion when this lava dome came up the sample and sent it and it should have given an age of basically argon undetectable They should have been able indicate it was a really, really low date, too hard to measure it, it's so low. But as a matter of fact, whole rock, all the rock it came back with an age of 350,000 years. So that's fairly low, but it's not millions of years, - Yes, 10 years. - Much more than 10, but it's fairly low as far as Argon dating is concerned. And so that was the date. And if the person hadn't seen it explode and didn't know what the age was, they would have just That's the age of it. But what happened was, they tested the second and that came back with So, you've got 350,000, 900,000, which one is right? And then the third sample with an age of 2.8 million years old. And so that's the of over 2 million years. And so that's what happened. - So, hang on, they've got three - Same rock. - But they're giving it - That's right. That's exactly right. But you know, what happens is they just like that, they do the analysis, and it's quite a to get an exact calculation. And then when they get an answer, nobody believes the answer unless it fits with what they think it should be. And what do they think it should be? Well, they make up a story. They didn't know. When they look at the number that looks all right. Or they'd ask the geologist, Is this what you're expecting? And so, the geologist would say, well, no no, actually I was They'd say, oh there must be some loss of argon that's occurred here. And so, they would make up a story then to be able to explain the way it did and not as was expected. So, every date has got an connected with it, to So, in the case of Mount St. Helens, you've got these three with 350,000, 900,000, 2.8 million. And I always like to say, And that's exactly the way it goes. What date would you like? Which is really cool. So, they've got these It's looking like this is How do they then decide with and what's not, and where - So, it all comes into the interpretation as to how it's interpreted. And there was one guy who was world famous as far as looking at radioactive dating, and they're called radioactive geochemistry, and that sort of thing. And he said, &quot;There's no It's just a bad interpretation.&quot; - Wow. - So, it's impossible to get a wrong date because you just simply with what you think it should be. And geologists, they and what rocks, how they're and they can work out the They know that this one and they can work out the relative dating. And that's pretty reliable. If you can actually see it's pretty reliable. And so any radioactive date has to fit in with the order that's expected. And if it's outside of that, then there's an explanation comes up. Sometimes they put it in the paper. Why? Sometimes they just And when I was at the university, and I was studying radioactive dating, my supervisor said, &quot;I'd love to have you He says, because you take things for what it's written. He said, &quot;I've got all these dates, which I can't figure And I'd like you to have a look at them.&quot; So, I thought that was really cool. - So, it sounds like there's a big picture that they've got to fit their dates into. - Exactly right. - Tas, can we go back and Can we measure exactly? Well, that's the first thing is that it's actually impossible. There's no instrument the date of something. Just by measuring dates in the present, measuring things in the present, there's nothing that is around of anything, because be able to make and you have to know whether to this thing since it formed, and since you're making the measurements. So basically, all dates and the fact is you can get on the assumptions you make. But it's a very, very important to the system. That's why geologists like it. - Okay. - Is that they present they might have a date 500 million years plus And so, this plus or that it's really precise. But all that indicates is that It doesn't indicate whether And as a matter of fact, So it's interesting, this did on Mount St. Helens, and he published the paper, he was very, he looked at the examples, and he explained where he and where they fitted into the order of the things that happened. - Yeah. - He did all that, and the and the chemical analysis, and he went through and he produced these results, And of course, there's been a - That's what I was gonna ask. - It's not been received very well. Because people have thrown up basically these interpretations as an excuse for it. And so, one of the things they say is that they attack the man, and say that Stephen He doesn't know what he's doing. He should never have sent those because he knew that they were young and he knows that this on rocks that are millions of years old. And so, he should never to the laboratory in the first place. And the answer to that is, the argon in the rock, they were able to give a and so there was certainly So even though it was young, that enabled it to be analysed correctly. - Okay. What else? Well, the first one they said, &quot;He didn't know what he was doing.&quot; The second one, he shouldn't The third one was that it had excess argon. Its argon hadn't escaped and that's because the lava from as it was coming It picked up old rocks of rock contaminated the result. Well, that's a standard thing, you know, and the number comes out to be too old. That's one of the - Okay. - And so, what happens had looked at these under the microscope for anything especially like that, and there were none present. And so that was one of the things. There was no, they call them xenoliths, which means foreign rocks - So, he eliminated that one. He eliminated that one. He did it all in his paper And so, it anticipated And the other story is that, oh, that's because what happened was, the mountain is millions of years old, and the hot lava coming up from the earth, it had crystallised, and so some of the crystals And so, the crystals were it was the crystals in the lava itself. And of course, that's geologists normally look at these things, they analyse them to see for dating, and Stephen and showed that that did not apply either. And so, another one was that, oh, the extra argon is collected, and not in the crystals, but it's-he actually analyzed the crystals and saw that there was no - Okay. And they said, &quot;Oh, it was in the glass.&quot; The rock's got glass with it. And so, so you've got the - Yep. It's in there. And so, Stephen also checked that and shown that that was not So it was a very, very powerful example of a 10-year-old rock giving an age of, from one of the crystals, the pyroxene, giving an age of 2.8 million years, and which really shows, it illustrates and I and the difficulties, and of using modern to date something in the past. - Tas, I find that it's one of the biggest arguments for people, even if they don't understand when they say, oh, no, God couldn't have designed the world, couldn't have made the world, or maybe even if doesn't exist. I think evolution is the And the first reason radiometric dating, isn't millions of years old? - I love it when people say carbon dating. I say, well, in actual fact, carbon dating gives good Because when they say carbon dating, it means they don't know much about it. Because carbon-14 is the isotope, and it's got a very short five and a half thousand years. And so, it can't measure beyond about a hundred thousand years. So, they don't use carbon dating to prove the world is What we do as people who we use carbon dating, or to show that it's present You know, we had diamonds which are supposed to and there should be no carbon-14 in it, and they were analysed, and there was measurable carbon-14 in it, and so it shows that indeed these diamonds are good evidence that they're So, as people who believe we don't actually say that the world is young, because we acknowledge that But we can know the age of something, and I often like to sort and I'll say, how old are you, Sonny? And he'll say, I'm nine. I'll be in a meeting and there'll and this little kid will be there. And I'll say, how do you know that? And he'll say, it's on the calendar. And I say, well, how do He said, &quot;Dad put it there.&quot; And so, well, how do you And if dad's in the meeting, he'll sometimes say, I was there. I saw it happen. And so that's the historical method. And that's why, as people we believe it gives an accurate history, and it's got these amazing, really interesting lists of names of when Adam was so many and Seth was so many years old. And from that you can work out that the world is only So, that's why we're always that come out in millions of years of age. - So radiometric dating, what do we use that for? Well, carbon dating is a but radiometric dating there are lots of different chemicals, have different varieties So, you've got samarian, changes into neodymium, and it decays into argon, and there's lots of different ones. There's uranium, it decays into lead, and so there's dozens and And so those are the ones which have got a very long half-life of millions of years, and But carbon-14's got a The half-life, that's when of the original isotope, to have decayed away. And so that's one half-life. - [Host] Okay. - In the next half-life, the - Okay. - And so, there'll only be a quarter left. And in another half-life, it goes like that. - They measure it in those half-lives. - Yes, so that's how they work it out. - Yeah, okay. And so, someone could say, well, radiometric dating is giving us these millions of years, these dates, how could that not be right? That's because, that's exactly because they in the present and they And a lot of people find that hard to imagine that. Although I have heard a on the radio, on the ABC, the guy who hosts it, who's the scientist guy talking about radioactive dating and he says, I think it's He's got no idea how it works. But that's amazing how they get these And most people have got that impression. I think it's just the radioactivity that gives an aura about it. It's the nucleus of the atom, you know, which decays away. And so, we know that the half-life, it's sort of very stable, and so people just accept this narrative along with it, this image that it has. And it's not until, people do get it. When you say, for example, can you make scientific they'll think, no, you can't, can you? They actually think about it and realize- - That need a time machine. - Yeah, you don't have a time machine. - No. - So, how do you measure a date if you can't make And of course, you can't measure a date. And it's a matter of, as the guy said, &quot;It's a matter of an interpretation. You take the results, There's one example of a fossil in Africa, which they were trying to date. And the first analysis that they did, they expected it to be quite of million years old or less than that. - Yeah. - And the first analysis came And the people that did that, the samples and did the work, they knew that it was far too old. And so, they just rejected that. So, what do you do then? Well, you go and collect more samples. And you do some more tests. And if you can't get that you then start to crush the samples and pick out certain minerals. And you keep doing different until you get an answer that fits in with what you think it should be. And that's the way it goes. But most people are not aware of that. They'll just say that or on the radio or in the of years old, and they don't fiddling around that's gone that particular result. - We walk around our museums, we listen to David Attenborough, we hear respected people billions of years. - That's exactly right. All we feel like we can that's being told. Do scientists, if they got to well, if those dating methods then they don't work? Or are - Well, it depends. Geologists who are sending the samples off to the laboratories to be tested, I've seen correspondence from them where they get very that come back just don't And I've heard people's, you know, I've seen a discussion about in a geological members we really need to get better data on this, we need to send it off to the laboratory and get some more tests. Somebody writes back, well They're the problem, that's - We need to get better dates. It's as if, pick a date like you said. - Yeah, pick a date, pick a date. That's right, what date would you like? So, we're trying to find a test, a sample, a test, a laboratory, a method, which gives the - Do you ever hear where they're accepting, maybe Maybe we're basing this - I don't think so. I think they've got a Like there's been various which scientists have used. There was a helium method which they used with the isotopes of helium, and they couldn't get any And so that's been abandoned. And so, then there's other like I talked about potassium argon. So that was very, very much widely used. But again, you've got the problems with, there's a whole story that it gives ages which are too old. And so, they say, you and it's more argon than it should be, and it's giving an older age. And so, they call it, there's it's excess argon. So, excess meaning it's because we think the age is this. And so, it's giving this But the thing is, all argon, it's a various isotope of argon a variety. And you can't tell the difference. You can't, there's not a label on one which says, I'm excess argon, and another one which says, I'm not. They all look the same. So, how do you know what's Well, the excess is the argon So, you know what the age should be, and anything that's older So, it's very, very and people just don't And even in the scientific papers, you can read a scientific paper and they present the results, and you really have to read in detail to see just what they're doing that fits with what they want. You know, so it's, I don't think... - Most of us probably and understand that and Yeah, well, I don't think they're lying. I mean, anybody that's maybe a student doing his PhD, he doesn't want to get He wants to get past and so people will say, well, there's obviously there's obviously you're not a good experimentalist So, he picks out the ones that fit with what he thinks it that the ones that don't fit, there must be some problem with them. And so, it's a that happens to make - Would it feel a bit dangerous for a scientist to question in our world today? - Well, it can be close. Like if you get a result that's different but close, it's okay. But if you get a result that's miles away, and basically, people even though that might be where it is. So, anybody that sort of of push the envelope too far. - Yes, yeah. Just on a personal note, Tas, as a geologist yourself when you talk about the things that you believe - I do find it's interesting, like geologists have been along to various geological society meetings. What do you do? I work We produce scientific And they say, oh, really? What's that? I produce Creation magazine. And so, it's interesting. And some will want to talk. - [Host] Okay. - And some will sort of and go somewhere else. So, it's interesting being I've been in a situation where it was in a scientific establishment, and there was a really big Having these Christians had me come along- - Okay. - To do a meeting there And it just, all the other scientists just went into a frenzy about this, should not be So, the meeting went ahead and I gave a talk about amazing design in living things. - Yes, yep. - And I thought it was pretty good. I think the evidence for - Compelling. - And the guy, the first question was, how old do you think the earth is? And the point being, and you know, it caught me a little bit by surprise- - [Host] Yeah. - And I said, I said &quot;6,000 years.&quot; And basically, there you go. We don't have to listen He's obviously cuckoo because So, I learned from that. I went to a meeting, a And we got talking about this issue, and life on Mars and stuff and as we're coming out of the the road and the guy said, &quot;How old do you think the earth is?&quot; And I said, &quot;Well, I said, that depends.&quot; And I sort of occasioned a little bit rather than just saying 6,000. - [Host] Yeah, yep. - And I said, well, it depends on how you If you think it formed then it would have taken a long time. But there could have been another way in which it took only a short time. And the guy said, &quot;Yeah, So anyway, you live and learn. It's very interesting. But the age of the earth is as far as the credibility It clearly teaches the age of the earth. You can clearly determine So, and it's essential for as to why we're in the situation we're in and what God has done to redeem us. So that's a very, very vital issue. - I find teenagers can very and say, I've had the question many times, doesn't science teach us of years old? But doesn't the Bible They don't need to be adults to know there's an inconsistency there. - That's right. I remember seeing an interview with Richard Dawkins Ben Stein asked him about He was talking about design &quot;Well Richard, he said, so And Richard said, &quot;Well, it happened very slowly, And so, he's explaining as a naturalist, as a person who doesn't believe in God, doesn't believe that God created, he's sort of putting it out there that it would have happened by natural processes, and it would have taken So, that goes to the crux of the issue. - And he's very popular. Many people listen to him what he's talking about, and not question it. - Yep, that's right. That's right. So, I'm interested if I was and say, have you heard Would most of them know about it? - Yes, they would know about it. They would know about it. - Okay. - Most geologists would not of the Earth. - Because they believe it's old. Because they've got an And so, the world must be old, and so that's not even Usually, they don't - Even though we've got - That's right. - And they would just say, well, there must be something going on that we don't really know - Okay. - But they would not question it because that's their basic belief system. And they say about Christians, they say, well, you're biased. You use the Bible. You believe the Bible and So well, you believe in naturalism. And so, you've already assumed It's not a matter of faith and science, it's a matter of faith and faith. Two faiths. - I think that's a really because you will hear that throwaway line that you're not believing in science if you believe in the Bible. - That's right, that right. So, if you were to summarise the lessons, we can kind of take away and what you saw there. - Well, I'd say that the are that it's direct evidence that the dating methods, there's a problem with them. So, I think it's a clear with the dating methods. I don't think you can say that but it indicates that And I think what it can do is it can liberate somebody to think, okay, I'm not bound into absolutely having to accept something. A lot of people think they because radioactive dating - [Host] Yes. - So, this sort of helps that they're allowed to think about it. - I feel like it removes A big roadblock, that's right. There are some other that are not connected directly but they do connect with the young earth. The fact that geological - Okay. when the volcano erupted, it produced super-hot ash and it produced these fine layers. And if you saw them, you know, a geologist would likely assume to form. And there could be many, of layers there. And in I think it was something was formed in one hour. What happens is that of sediment and ash, they actually form layers automatically when they are deposited sideways, like with a blast of water, or blast of air or blast So that was one lesson, that layers happen quickly. Another one is that When you go there, you can a 40th the scale of Grand Canyon- - Okay. - It's called Little Grand Canyon. - Yeah. - And you look at it, it's got little stream running down 50 metres wide, 30 metres high. And so when you look that little stream would to carve that canyon- - Yep. that canyon was only and it was due to Mount St the hot lava melted the snow and it all came running down the side as a great big avalanche of mud and snow and water and they piled up and then So, there are a lot of has got a lot of amazing evidences that proved that geology and geologists have changed their thinking as a result of it. They have changed it that catastrophes happen, the impact of catastrophe but they still won't believe So, they think that and then millions of years, and then another catastrophe And so, they hold on to worldview like that. And the guy who wrote a book about this, he called it neocatastrophism, and he documented all these And he said, &quot;I'm very upset that I using these evidence that because I think it's totally But he's documented it all and he said, &quot;It's like the life of a soldier. You know, long periods with short periods of terror.&quot; And so geologists have into this neo-catastrophism, But they haven't changed their worldview. - Tas, some people say, why does it matter if the world or if you decided to create - Yeah, well the age of and it does matter whether or whether it took millions of years. You see, the people who and that the world made itself, they know that they need to explain that, and so And from the biblical worldview, we know that God created but it was a result of man and death and suffering and you can't have death and And that's why Jesus came. He died on the cross to pay So that's why it's vital, the - Tas, this has been amazing. Thanks so much for being with us. - It's been great to