It turns out, when Bernie Sanders was the he hosted Yeah. And a few days ago, that TV network released And I'm talking hours and hours of pure Bernie gold. Like, there's so much gold Bernie's gonna demand to the working class. And when you start the first thing how consistent Bernie has been We have a crisis situation. We are one... in the industrialized world that does not have The wealthiest people in our To a large degree, in this country in that it asks working people and poor people to pay too much, while large corporations, uh, and wealthy people Goddamn. Bernie Sanders-- he just... And I'm not talking The dude looked exactly the same You realize I'm not joking. He looks the same. Like, if you traveled back and the first person you met was &quot;Aah, this piece of shit (laughter, applause) Bernie would be like, What doesn't work (laughter) Like, I... like, I wonder. Has Bernie just looked like this Yeah, I bet when he was born, &quot;Congratulations, Mrs. Sanders. It's a beautiful, (laughter, applause) This is like... And then, the doctor just shook his hand. &quot;Welcome to the world, Welcome to the world.&quot; And although... that Bernie's been consistent it really says more than it says about Bernie, He's saying the same thing because America has had But here's what makes this old Uh, it wasn't just It was like a full TV show And by far, by far, are the ones where he interacted Like this segment, at camp about drugs. -Me. (laughter) Oh, man. That's so adorable. &quot;I don't smoke Like, it's almost like Bernie... can't tell the difference He's like, &quot;Let's talk finance. Who's got a 401(k)? Who talks about cocaine Like, the way made it seem less and more like he was trying He was just like, &quot;Uh, you know where &quot;Come on, this is Vermont. Come on, come on.&quot; A-And on the show, about hard drugs. He also called them out (laughter) Oh, man. Oh, wow! Yo, I think this kid's -by Bernie Sanders. And there'd be If Bernie kicked your ass, you'd have to move And even then, you know there'd &quot;Hey, didn't you get your ass He'd be like, So, you see, a pretty straightforward guy. Right? he might take it Like, like for instance, where he showed up to teach the kids but I think -Geez, Bernie. What the (bleep), man? These poor kids clearly don't and now you're the one (like Sanders): the Italians are in the Mafia, and, uh, why are we so scared (like a child): We're not, (like Sanders): Wrong. They have -(laughter) -Which, by the way, Yeah. I've never heard I think that was he's into some kinky shit; And... and if you think or in the classroom was awkward, right, sometimes he who were standing on the street. (laughter, groans) &quot;Don't be so shy&quot;? Actually, I think those kids were the exact Think about it. just rolled up... threw open his door and asked, &quot;What do you kids think When... when kids' parents told them not to talk that is the definition You saw the one girl. &quot;I shouldn't be here. I'm...&quot; She just walked away. -(cheering, applause) Like, I totally get Bernie was just like, They're like, I heard Jews have (laughter) But by far, by far, my favorite is when a little girl to build an amusement park and all of a sudden I was just wondering, um... my mother had this idea an indoor-outdoor First thing that before we could do is to make sure That's one of the concerns At the present moment, down in the... downtown. It's owned by the railroad. And one of the things is to figure out and how much So we're working on that. But I think your mother's idea And I congratulate you for Okay, well, All right. Bye. (cheering) Yes! Oh, yes! That little girl is my hero. 'Cause she was asking and Bernie turned it into, like, and you can tell Oh, man, that was so crazy. Ah. You know what's also crazy grew up to be Hillary Clinton.