1809. Imperial forces have trapped China's largest pirate fleet in a bay. The government has 95 ships, 1200 cannons, 18,000 men and 4 Western vessels. But the Pirates have something Cheng I Sao. Leader of the Pirate Confederation. By the time this is over, she will dictate terms to them. *intro* Let's go back a couple years. Cheng I, the first the leader of the Pirate Confederation is dead. Swept overboard in a typhoon. The commanders of the six fleets gather to choose their new leader. And those are some big shoes to fill. Cheng had been a good commander. He'd been with the Pirates in Vietnam where they'd served as privateers in a war that had transformed them from amateur bandits to a crack mercenary navy. And when the Vietnamese dynasty fell It was Cheng who founded their Confederation From the Pearl River What man could follow that? But when the fleet commanders the first to speak is a woman. Six years prior she had been just another prostitute but now they know her Which translates to Cheng's wife. And she has a proposal. She will lead After all, though Cheng she managed It was because of her that every salt merchant in Canton visited a pirate office to buy a safe passage before setting sail. Because of her they were rich and every one of them knew that Jiang had made strategy with her at his elbow. The commanders exchanged looks. The idea isn't absurd. In Confucian China But these men are all from poor Things are different out there. If a fisherman dies, his widow takes over his boat. Why should this be any different? But Cheng His adopted son And though the lad was a popular Fearless in attack and blessed by the gods. His flagship was a floating pagoda filled with idols, priests and oracles. Madame Cheng had news though. Cheung Po had agreed confederation's red flag fleet. This tipped the scale. The fleet commanders named And to solidify her power, strategic alliance. Within weeks, she and her adopted son were lovers. Madame Cheng got to work. Her first act was to strengthen her authority with a new legal code. The massive confederation, now numbering 70,000 pirates and over 1200 vessels had become disorderly. The pirates needed to remember under one leadership. From now on, anybody who disobeyed orders would be beheaded. And all stolen property would be brought to a common trust until it could be distributed fairly. If a crew made a score, they would hand it over to an accountant. The captors would receive a 20% cut with the rest going to a confederation fund for provisions and repairs. The new code also prescribed death for raping a captive, stealing from common funds or going ashore without leave. Next, Cheng I Sao turned her attention making the money. The confederation already had but it was time to expand. She extended their protection racket including fishing junks and foreign opium ships. She also dispatched the fleet They had a choice; pay up, or burn down. And her treasure warehouses began to fill. The government tried to stop her, but the Qing emperors had neglected maritime policy for decades, to the point that China didn't have a modern professional navy. The government fleet was just garrison troops loaded onto fishing and merchant junks, the same vessels the pirates used. Madame Cheng's fleet, on the other hand, was a crack ambush force. Trained to hide until their prey drew close. Then, the fleet would sweep out of hiding. War junks opening up with cannons as small sampan loaded with spearmen These tactics sent fleet after fleet But in January of 1808, the pirates killed and Pe King couldn't ignore The Emperor dispatched a new official, Bai Ling, with orders to quell this coastal threat. And he arrived just in time. For months, Madame Cheng A full-scale invasion with its rich trading ports of Canton In July 1808 Cheng Po baited Kenton's and annihilated it. Now the path to Canton lay open. For a full year, Madame Cheng sacked the Delta. Pirates extorted villages dragging off women Each depredation was bloodier The Black Flag fleet killed 10,000 people in a single expedition. Soon, citizens of Canton could hear But the campaign was taking Raids were getting more costly. Their opponent, Bai Ling, He'd also clamped down on their supply lines on shore, forcing them to live on caterpillars boiled with rice. And the military was getting tougher, too. Then, a British ship appeared, alongside 60 brand-new Chinese war junks. Bai Ling had stooped Usually Madame Cheng had no problem outmaneuvering Western ships, but in river fighting, there was no room to operate. Within a week, she'd been driven away from Canton. With her personal squadron heavily damaged, she left Cheang Po in charge and went back to her base And that is where In November 1809, Madame Cheng looked out Four Portuguese ships. Her squadron had only a few vessels, largely boarding and scouting craft. Worse, most of her junks had beached for repair. She sent an order to every ship in the fleet. &quot;Send help.&quot; Three days later, Cheang Po arrived He brought bad news though. The Black Flag fleet wasn't coming, and the enemy fleet had grown. 60 war junks, 35 fishing boats and four western ships. The pirates only had seven junks which they moored bow to stern, blocking the mouth of the bay. This was a trap. The government had wanted Cheang Po here. By threatening Madame Cheng, they had forced the pirates to withdraw from Canton entirely and gather all in one place. The Imperial Fleet began its first attack, circling in to fire, then retreating to reload. The barrage lasted two hours, until finally a pirate sampan got close enough to hurl torches onto a war junk, detonating its magazine and forcing For days, Cheang Po burned incense Twice the pirates marshalled for a counter-attack, and twice, the breeze turned against them. And then the fire ships came. 43 of them, two-by-two. Each vessel loaded with straw and explosives. The pirates, all moored together, were an easy target. It was a night of fire and gunpowder. Crackling ships drifted into the fleet, throwing sparks as barrels of powder exploded. But Madame Cheng and her captains kept calm, methodically staving off each vessel and towing it safely ashore. And then, a miracle. The smoke changed direction; a southerly wind sprang up, driving the last two fire ships back into the Imperial fleet. Madame Cheng ordered the beached junks towed out and made ready for sail. The next morning, they slipped the blockade with the wind behind them, using older vessels to shield the fleet from gunfire. In nine days of siege, Madame Cheng had lost only 40 men and completed her repairs It was a stunning victory. But it exposed a fault line The Black Fleet had taken Over the next few months, the Red Fleet would find itself simultaneously fighting imperial forces, old allies and western ships. Madame Cheng realized that the confederation had reached its zenith. From here her power could only weaken. So she decided to take a pardon while she still had a strong negotiating position. She sent the government her terms: Her pirates would get full amnesty Her men would also have the option to join the army and receive funds to establish themselves. Finally, she and Cheang Po, now married, would retain a squadron of junks for use in the salt trade. The government balked. No punishment... for anyone?! They refused to allow that, and talks began to break down. So Madame Cheng ordered one last sweeping pillaging expedition to teach them the wisdom of compromise. Then, she landed at Canton and demanded to negotiate with Bai Ling in person. Her terms had not changed. Bai Ling caved on every point, but he refused to let the couple keep How could he allow infamous pirates For days, he negotiated, But Madame Cheng just threatens to go back to sea. So he gave in. Two weeks later, the red flag fleet surrendered at Macau. It consisted of 17,318 pirates, 226 junks and 1315 cannons. But, the rot remained. Madame Cheng went straight, or at least, as straight as an ex pirate can go, running a gambling house in Canton. But the Emperor failed to see the warning sign her career represented. He continued to neglect maritime policy, and showed no interest in creating a more capable navy. But what the Emperor ignored, others saw with perfect clarity. As Cheng's life waned, the British stepped up 29 years after her surrender, a mere handful of British ships brought China to its knees, and the opium wars began. *outro* Subtitles brought to you by yours truly; Lee TF.