Hi, I'm Kasia. Welcome to Oxford Online English. In this lesson, you're going to learn how You'll see simple, effective tips that anyone skills. We'll also give you a practical, easy-to-follow listening fast. But first, let's start with some questions. I'm going to ask you about four different You should think about whether understanding for you. OK? First, you're listening to an English teacher, and clearly. Easy or difficult? Next, you're listening to a native English accent, and also uses a lot of slang and idiomatic What do you think: would this be easy or difficult Next, you're on a train. There are four non-native speakers from four They have different accents. Do you think you could understand their conversation? Would it depend on where they were from? Finally, you're listening to a news show There are many different speakers, and of They're talking fast, using a lot of less How would you find this? Probably, most of you think that the first is the hardest. However, a lot depends on you and your experiences. The big question is: what can you do in those You've been studying English for years, you hear. We get it--it's frustrating! So, what can you do? Here's a question: if you worry a lot about English listening better? No, of course not! Many English learners get very stressed and This doesn't help your English listening, understand spoken English. To understand a foreign language, you need &quot;Why can't I understand this?&quot; &quot;What was that word he just used?&quot; &quot;They're speaking too quickly!&quot; If you're worrying and thinking thoughts like You're focusing on your own worries and This makes it harder to understand, not easier! So, relax! If you understand, you understand. If you don't, you don't--it's not the end By relaxing and focusing 100% on what you're [Portuguese audio] That's Portuguese, if I don't know one word of Portuguese, so Is that a problem? No. Am I worried or stressed? No. If I listen carefully, I can hear a few words the topic in a very general way. Take the same attitude when listening to English. If you don't understand, there's nothing So, relax! Being relaxed and focused gives you the best Remember: you need 100% of your brain power language. You know what takes a lot of brain power? Translating English into your language! So, you can't do both. Professional interpreters, who translate spoken job. In fact, they can only work a few hours a If you listen to English and try to translate trying to be a professional interpreter, except they've had. Also, you're not getting paid like they Doesn't sound like a good deal, right? Again, when you're listening to spoken English, Don't do anything else. Don't try to translate things. Don't worry about words you don't know. Don't think about things you didn't hear. Just listen. Want to know a simple secret about understanding You don't have to understand what someone Wait, what? It's true. Very often, I see English learners focusing I hear things like, "There was a word I Here's the thing: understanding doesn't Very often, there are other things you can For example, if you're face to face with tone of voice and facial expressions to help Also, think about the situation you're in. What is the other person likely to say? What words are they likely to use? For example, imagine you're at the airport. You're checking in for your flight. What questions might you expect to hear? You'd probably hear questions like: Did you pack these bags yourself? Have you already checked in online? Would you like an aisle seat or a window seat? Imagine you hear the last question, but you Even if you've never heard the word before, the question. You know that there are two choices, aisle You know what window seat means. You know that aisle seat must mean something So, you can work it out. Similarly, imagine you hear this: Have you mbrmmnbsmgrm chicken online? Chicken? Did he say 'chicken'? That doesn't make sense... Right, it doesn't make sense. So, probably the person behind the check-in said 'check-in', because that's what flight. So, when you're listening to spoken English, Don't think: "I didn't understand one It's just not true! At the beginning of this lesson, we looked easier or more difficult for you to understand Generally, if you're familiar with something, For example, if you learn English from a teacher, probably find male British voices easier to On the other hand, you might find female voices You might find other accents, like American So, what's the solution? Very simple: listen to as many different voices Don't limit yourself. If you only listen to one kind of English, of English. So, listen to different kinds of English. Listen to English people from the north, south, Listen to Scottish speakers, Welsh speakers, children; listen to Americans, Australians, Listen to Indian, Chinese, Russian or Brazilian What's that? You only want to listen to native English? Fine, but remember that more English is spoken so it could be a very good use of your time It's not just about listening to different You should listen to as many different formats So, listen to songs, TV shows, films, audiobooks, can find. All of the advice in this lesson will help also need a practical plan to work on your Let's make a plan together. Ready? It's very simple: you just need to follow Rule number 1. Do something every day. Rule number 2. Do something different every day. Easy, right? "But, but, I don't have time!" You don't need much time. If you have ten minutes a day, spend ten minutes Of course, more is better, but be realistic. Don't say you're going to spend an hour you're sure you will do it! A good target is 15-20 minutes a day. This is not too much, so it should be easy It's also enough to get better and improve. What about the second rule? You need to do something different every day different voices. If you do the same thing every day, you won't Here's what your listening plan for one Monday: listen to 1-2 songs, 2-3 times each. Tuesday: listen to a podcast with American Wednesday: watch 15 minutes of a TV show from Thursday: do a listening exercise from a textbook. Friday: watch 15 minutes of a news show Sunday: call a friend and spend 15 minutes This is just an example. Your plan might be different. That's fine! Here are some questions you probably have: "Where do I get materials?" Easy, get on Google or the search engine of There's lots of stuff out there which is Yes, you have to work a little to find materials That's necessary, because you should choose "How do I choose something which is the There's a good rule here: the first time to understand more than 50% and less than If you can't understand half of what you too difficult. If you can understand more than 90% the first So, try to choose materials which are in this "How do I stick to my plan and make sure Make your plan at the start of the week. Write it down. Stick it somewhere in your home, for example Think about what time of day you should do Are you better in the mornings or in the evenings? Try to do your listening practice when your Then, when you do your listening practice That way, you'll see what you're doing You won't want to miss a day! If you have good ideas for things to listen with other English learners in the video comments. Did you enjoy this lesson? Don't forget to check out our website for many more free English lessons: Oxford Online English.com. Thanks for watching! See you next time!