Carl: This is, I'm calling this &quot;The art of And over the next 20 minutes or so you're gonna help you to create more abundance in purpose. And to be one of those people that we've been being one of those people that's alive and of life and feeling really, really good and As you've just seen from the the quick video at Mindvalley. But now my role, my purpose in life is to planet and distill their biggest ideas, their And as I mentioned in the video the 20% of and strategies, they get 80% of their results I'm lazy inherently and I wanna get the biggest of time and effort. So over the past six months I've interviewed from Lisa Nichols and Christie Marie Sheldon and many many more. My boy Brendon, Brendon Burchard, [inaudible And I mean imagine like I'm the luckiest dude thousands of dollars for coaching and for free and quiz them. And NLP uses a term called modeling. You're trying to understand at the deepest them to create this big life. And for me a big life is simply that. It's a life where you feel alive, you're doing well-paid for it. You get to achieve all of your goals and you really, really want you have great relationships in flow. And what I've discovered over the past six seemingly teach different subjects from abundance peak performance, there's actually commonalities Like, there really are these principles that language or slightly different terms there's And I have played with these principles and be the fastest and most effortless way to And I'm gonna share these seven principles But before we do that I just need to tell Because, yeah. A few years ago my life was very, very, very Like, for me to be on this path now, even out of the norm. Four years ago I was completely depressed. I was absolutely miserable, was in a job I And I got kicked out of the house I was sharing She left me because I was miserable, actually And I just thought... I was one of those people where I thought And believe it or not it didn't really give And I was just having these really dark, dark on a beanbag on the floor of my best friend's That's a really [inaudible 00:03:15] beanbag. It wasn't anything like that. It was like a little mini one and it was one And I was sleeping on this beanbag. And every night I'd sort of slip off it and wearing three or four layers, just saying Would anyone really miss me if I'm gone?&quot; I'm afraid to admit it. I had some really dark thoughts and I was maybe it's just better if I just end this Nothing is going right for me nothing ever I was in a very dark place and this culminated I was gonna pick a friend up from a late-night And there was ice on the roads. I was driving to pick them up and at the car these thoughts like, &quot;Would it be so bad if Like, would anyone genuinely miss me?&quot; Pulled up at the diner and all of the lights I mean, it should be open and my intuition And at the time being completely driven by What the fuck? Shit, I'm going in there.&quot; So even though there is this deep upon me, the door of this diner and I go in and it's And out of the darkness run two guys with Now, they're holding the place up. I've walked into an armed robbery. Now, stupidly and this will be representative my conscious mind told me, &quot;Ah, this is a This is my friend playing a trick on me.&quot; So as a general bit of life advice here outside guns at you, do what they say. I did not. And because I thought it was a joke I stood &quot;F off.&quot; They told me to get on the floor, as if. So I stood up to two guys with guns. Terrible, terrible idea. Seconds later they start beating the shit the floor. And at that moment when I was on the floor It was, like, &quot;Shit, this is for real. You need to do what these guys say.&quot; So you know, I learned from my lessons. I'm good. I'm good like that. But they locked me in this small kind of store That's where my friend is and the other staff them robbing the place. Well, what really changed my life was that out of the safe. They had a discussion about whether they should So in English if you haven't got the English That was me, what with the whole calling them And I tell you when there's a couple of guys from where you are, it creates a certain kind And questioning your decisions and whatnot. But to be honest I was very peaceful on the It was a very strange experience. And a calm came over me. But I did make a decision at that moment. And that decision was this, that,&quot;If I get out how to live a good life. How to be happy. How to be successful. How not to be miserable all the time. How to attract the people that I want.&quot; And I mean, I did. Needless to say, they didn't shoot me. Great. That was awesome. But then I went out and started studying, I studied psychology for a bit. Didn't really resonate with me. It seemed to be to focused on the past. And then I discovered personal growth. Totally changed my life. Past four years I've spent over a hundred from meditation to visualization and NLP and Trying to figure it out exactly what it is That's been my burning desire. For those of you have read Napoleon Hill's The burning desire that captivates my attention to figure out exactly what it is that creates lives. And now my life is so far removed. I am I'm incredibly blessed. I mean, I've told you about my job. I mean, you know, I get to interview the best it, travel the world. Most of allI have the most amazing woman in Some of you might met her. She's on the awesomest first team. I truly understand the truth of behind every for sure. So thank you, love. And yes, champagne and Jordans does really So with no further ado... So that's what triggered me off and that's And over the past six months where I've been realized that, you know, I sort of meandered a lot of trial and errors. I'm sure there is for all of you. But from speaking to these highly successful and I've been working with these and teaching And people get extraordinary results really, than you can imagine. So I'm gonna share these with you now and for living big. The first one is simply this, you need to that vision. It needs to captivate you. Because, frankly, if you ain't in love with day after day after day and do what it takes It needs to speak to your soul. And as Bob Proctor told me, &quot;You need to write again and again.&quot; A key distinction, it's not enough to know I was really good at saying, &quot;I don't want I don't wanna be broke.&quot; But our unconscious minds can't process negatives So when you say, &quot;I don't wanna be broke.&quot; It's, like, &quot;I wanna be broke, man,&quot; and it So the first thing I'd invite you to do is in love with my vision? Like, do I get up in the morning and think, because I can't imagine anything bigger or And if you ain't there yet I'd invite you to that point. For me, it's been a trial and error like you like and you let go of what you don't like And so eventually you end up somewhere that first step with a vision. You're capable of much bigger and greater And if you can make the vision about more Principal two is to understand that your unconscious the show. The latest neuroscience suggests that 95% unconscious level. Incredible. 95% to 99%. Most of us spend all of our time consciously I've got solve this problem,&quot; and we're relying Dr. Bruce Lipton from Stanford University &quot;Ultimately cast the deciding vote on how what kind of relationships you attract, kind subconscious level.&quot; And the way your subconscious mind or your through strong emotion and through sensory-rich Which leads to step three and this for me to change your subconscious beliefs. And that's to visualize. Now, we've probably all heard about visualization is you gotta do it with emotion and you've And you've got to create this vision in your and you touch and you taste every aspect of Which is where back to step one. You've got to be in love with it because if gonna be able to imagine it over and over Like if visualization bores you it's because Doctor Maxwell Maltz in the incredible book what we learn now in the personal growth world mind cannot tell the difference between what's Stop and imagine that for a second. Your conscious mind 95% to 99% of your total by simply using your imagination in a focused And when you take time to visualize every to change at the subconscious level. This is what a lot of these teachers, these about being led by synchronicity and flow Because it's happened at the subconscious We're not conscious of what we're doing or But when you change your subconscious beliefs Principle four is what happens after that. Because a lot of people stop there and they and I'm gonna sit in my house and wait for That never worked for me to be honest. But what does work is this idea of inspired Now, most people talk themselves out of going like, &quot;How am I gonna even start? I don't even know? This seems to be so complicated.&quot; And, of course, it is because from that level to know the myriad, the thousands of steps to. But that's okay because as doctor Joe Vitale If you are focusing on your vision and you're unconscious mind can't help but give you solutions I like to compare them to apps on your iPhone. When you download an app on your iPhone you You don't need to install anything else. You don't need to mess with the settings. You don't need to figure it all out yourself. Yu press the button, it's downloaded, it's Same with these insights. They'll flash into your mind and it will become for where you need to go next. And all you need to do is honor those ideas The more you honor these ready for you, done and put them into action quick. Money-like speed. Success-like speed. The quicker you put them into action the more get in that flow. You don't need to figure out three, five, I mean, it's great to have long-term visions they are revealed step by step by step. And all you need to do is keep going, keep the adventure because the adventure is where Principle five is slightly different and that trying to hustle and create this success we ego. And if you don't learn how to distance from &quot;You should do this or this is wrong I need of unnecessary struggle. For me, meditation... I mean, over I think 2,000 studies now prove body, mind and we all know about that. But what's less well-publicized is that for When I meditate I'm more creative, I'm more I get better ideas. I get my hustle on more. I have much better days when I meditate. And, of course, you're nicer to be around Your energy changes, people wanna help you, Because very few people in the world outside they're cool, they're at peace. And, of course, the great paradox that when increases your well-being and your happiness When you are happy now without having those relationship that you desire that's part of When you're happy now paradoxically it attracts Certainly been my experience and you'll find So stop saying, &quot;I'll be happy when, I'll I'll be happy when this changes.&quot; Focus instead on being really, really happy Easiest way to do it just meditate for a few And realize that that voice that's constantly You need to fix this. You need to do that,&quot; might not actually be Principle six. This was the toughest one for me to learn And that is I'd spent most of my 20s trying Trying to get money, trying to get ahead, And even when I got the stuff that I thought Crazy. Crazy. Didn't make me happy. But then, again, Dr. Joe Vitale taught me can't outgive the universe.&quot; I love that idea. You can't outgive the universe. So I switched my focus. So rather than trying to get stuff I was trying Give value, give service, try and help people, Give the things that you wanna get. Give money, give time, give energy. Craziest thing happens. One, you feel awesome because when you give you feel happier about yourself. But again another great paradox that the more into your life. You create this vortex of energy which comes The big life's a great example is the first Giving value is absolutely our number one We give away 60 minutes or more of free training the back sometimes, not all the time. It's going to a million dollars in sales in goal for years. Million dollars from... Audience: [applause] Carl: Thank you. So I would invite you if there's one takeaway give more value?&quot; Even more value because I mean, I've met some You're all amazing, inspiring people, but How can you help even more people, give even Because a lot of people I meet they're like, I don't wanna give too much. You know, I got to hold a little bit back.&quot; I promise you when you make that shift to comes back to me comes back to me. Tthat's cool,&quot; you'll be amazed at the disproportionate Because it's so rare someone who's authentic will wanna help you. Which leads us to the principle seven, the And I've got to tell you I wish it was sexier. I've tried for months to dream up a way to &quot;Yeah, I can get me some of that.&quot; It's a daily routine. Every single teacher who I have interviewed do every single day to get them in that state goals and taking action. And that for me has been the biggest change. Like, all of the vision and giving back, they've But if I don't do the shit I need to do in I'm off having a crappy day. But when I get up and I meditate and I visualize grateful for and I exercise and I do this, Which of the things that I've got in my daily But whatever puts you in that state, that like, &quot;Yeah, you know what, life is good. I'm happy. I'm gonna have a good day today.&quot; Which is hard sometimes because our ego wants That's its natural response, trying to fix But when you do this, when you make it a routin, what creates the... it overrides the ego. It overrides the subconscious sabotage and And, of course, because you're working on unconscious beliefs, it creates this disproportionately Which allows you to create more success in hard work, less of that massive action. Of course, you have to move, you have to put You don't need to motivate yourself. Motivation and willpower are finite resources. They're controlled by the conscious mind. Motivation and willpower. But when you get your unconscious mind on its all effortless. It becomes who you are. You embody it and that's when people are attracted With all that said a cavert. I found this qoute that I reall,y really lik. It's from Joseph Campbell, &quot;You enter the no path. Where there is a way or a path, it's someone You're not on your own path. If you follow someone else's way, you're not So from the bottom of my heart these are the the biggest impact on my life and literally helped over the past six months. I don't need you to feel that they're a prescription As a general rule Joe Campbell also said, It's a great bit of advice. Follow your bliss. If anything I've said today inspires you or sounds like fun,&quot; then follow that. That's a good indicator that that's where If something doesn't resonate it's cool. This is not a prescription. Just let it go. It doesn't work for you right now that's absolutely You got to figure out your own path and that You have no doubt noticed that one of the people that you meet here because there are authentic. The real world might say you're weird or you're in the world. The weirder you are the more authentic you you, the more successful you're gonna become. Because people absolutely love, unconsciously, alive, who are just being themselves and ain't [Inaudible 00:21:43] Audience: Yeah. Carl: Yeah. So naturally I gotta finish with a rap related So to summarize that in a slightly more concise created Def Jam Music and a number of other And was the co-author or the author of the all time. Russell Simmons says, &quot;Do you. Don't try and do me. Don't try and do no one else. Just be yourself. Do you and you'll be amazed of the big life Thank you. Audience: [applause]