So your boss comes across this chart from report. Do you believe me when I tell you that you can do it in under 90 seconds? Don't believe me? let me just quickly introduce you to the way our same numbers as the ones we saw from the McKinsey to visualize the reasons our IT staff decides to top reason, which isn't surprising, all the I'm going to create our chart. Ready? Start the timer. First things first, let's just take a sip of coffee. Now I'm ready. First thing I'm going chart. I'm just going to reference the cell, drag this down, function. This is the Repeat function in Excel. In symbol. So I'm just bringing up the Windows Emoji to repeat it this many times, close the bracket, ampersand. We're going to connect it with another symbol, go and select this circle, and before I add a quotation, I'm going to add a space, quotation and number, Enter Send this down. That's it, pretty much done, right? But we want to make this look to this. I'm going to go with this light gray, down first five in a light gray background color. I'll Ctrl + B. Let's bring over the title as well and don't need a super-duper expensive software, just need. Now, this obviously is dynamic, right? So if to respond automatically. Okay, so I'm going to in your files, there are some things that I want this. So, first of all, the REPT function returns you can adjust the font color of the text, and right? So here, I have green bars, blue bars. You don't have a lot of space in your report, you want smaller, right? So you can see my bars are getting Another way you can tweak the style of your bars but take a look at this. When I hover over these so many different variations just by changing the and the font size are going to change the bar, all same font size and the same font type, so be aware variations of this. So, I used the dash symbol can get creative, you can use emojis, whatever you just going to remove this symbol here, I'll leave type of chart. You can also use cell references type it in inside quotation, just put it somewhere So, for example, here I have the star symbol. I'm I would have to fix it, but just to show you this might not be so McKinsey-style, so let's use to fix the formatting, use the F4 key, press Ctrl with that formatting. Okay, so now you're going to also change the color of these bars by changing gray, and these are a bit too bulky, so let's formatting and change the color of the bars based are so many ways you can get creative here. So, we have sales values for these different days, be repeated 6,600 times. I can scale these. I can also decide on the size of the largest bar. So, report, I don't have that much space. I'm going to the whole chart is going to respond automatically. these are formulas that are connected to these. add comments inside your charts. So, for example, was an announcement that went out. Now, keep an announcement is added automatically. So let's say press Enter, and that's added in here. You can Pretty cool. This technique works well if you have the REPT function just ignores the decimal, so if you're dealing with small numbers and decimals Excel chart instead of using the technique that techniques and a lot more in our new course, recording this video, we added the final touches like from the inside. But before I do that, let interest for you. When we talk to our customers, high-quality, professional-looking Excel reports reports that really get noticed. So not like but ones that look like they just popped out of because these types of charts grab attention. Now, that they want to have the ability to create these pace matters in the business world. But the it keeps changing, keeps getting new features, method to use to create these dynamic charts. Excel challenges that you're probably facing in and in project management. Now, at this point in times in a row. I'm also honored to have taught courses. We understand the struggles. I believe charts. It shouldn't be time-consuming. You month. The whole process should be dynamic. That's you to be able to save a ton of time, and we want these charts that we cover in the course aren't report, but they're also very rewarding to everything update like magic. Okay, let me quickly video lessons, you're going to get all the files You have lifetime access to the course, so you say though, that even though it's called Business of really cool Excel formula combinations that We tried to cover all the scenarios that you for these. For example, let's say you need to to start. You can go to &quot;How to Pick the Right you'll have access to a quiz. This is actually visual. You also get access to cheat sheets and these charts really fast. You'll get CPD credits, and access to our super-friendly teaching if you work at a corporate job and you'd like reports, join us in the course. We'd be honored the description of this video. Click the link, this promotional bit in the video. I just had struggle creating visuals and charts in Excel, and watching all the way to the end. If you work let me know why you or they are sticking around. Which reasons from my dataset resonate? Thank you for watching. Thank you for being