Mr. Lin is a competitive man. Oh, Mr. Zhai, what are you doing? Look, you have been away from your hometown for many years. I specially brought you the specialties from my hometown to let you feel the taste of your childhood. Mr. Zhai, you are so polite. No, no, Mr. Lin, you are now the boss of a big company. I know you don't like this thing either. I know you don't like this thing either. But I grew up in the same village of ours. But I think about it. I grew up in the same village of ours. When you grow up, can you please mention our village's ten-million-yuan loan a little more? Don't worry, I will go back and personally supervise it. I'll do it well. The path I took when I left home six years ago has not changed at all. Mr. Lin has not changed at all. You escaped that year. I was only 18 years old at that time. Parents, parents, I was admitted. Parents, I got the admission notice. Parents, I got the admission notice. I was admitted. What book? Admission Notice Admission Notice What's the use of reading so many books as a girl? What's the use of reading so many books? Is n't this a waste of money? Is n't this a waste of money? Mom, what are you doing? Mom, I'll let you work hard. Don't step on it, Mom, what are you doing? I got admitted to the first university in Nancheng. I got admitted to the first university in Nancheng. What a [ __ ] university. What's the use of a girl studying? What's the use of a girl studying? Can it be provided? Can I afford you to study? Can I afford you to study? Can I afford you to study? Mom, I don't need to get money from home. Mom, I don't need to get money from home. I can work and make money while I go to school. Mom, what will happen if you let me go to school and make money? Girl, let me tell you, studying is a waste of money. While you are young, find someone to marry as soon as possible. Find someone to marry as soon as possible. How serious is that? Mom, I don't want to marry. I want to go to school. I don't want to marry. I want to get married. I want to go to school. I don't want to get married. I want to go to school. What books should I sell? Are you studying? Mom and Dad, I passed the exam. I 'm going to college. Oh, I'm going to college. There's green smoke coming out of our Lin family's ancestral graves. There's green smoke coming out of our Lin family's ancestral graves. Mom, please stop looking at it. Please give me two thousand yuan first. I'll go to the street to buy a few sets of clothes. I'll go to the street. Let me go to the street to buy a few sets of clothes. Come on, Mom, get them for you. Oops, stop counting. Hurry up and give them to me. My son will buy something good-looking, something exciting, a high-end one, something exciting, a high-end one, something exciting, a high-end one. Ah, okay, I know, I'm leaving, okay, I know, I'm leaving, go ahead, old man, our son has been admitted to college. Old man, our son has been admitted to college. Old man, our son has been admitted to college. This time, he has a future . Hey, he has his days to come. This time, when Dongliang goes to college, he has to pay for food and clothing. Your dowry money is for your brother. Parents, my brother took the exam, but it was an ordinary university. Parents, my brother took the exam. But my parents, my brother, got into an ordinary university. I got into the first prestigious university in Nancheng. Can you let him go to it? Are you going to let me go? How can you compare with your brother? Can you compare with your brother? You are a loser. Marry old Xue family early and have children. Just have children. Xue family. Mom, I'm only eighteen. Who should I marry? Mom, I'm only eighteen. Who should I marry? Mom, I'm only eighteen. What should I marry? Man, I ordered a baby girl for you. That baby girl I ordered for you is the village father, his son Xue Shixi. You are now eighteen years old. They gave us a bride price of 20,000 yuan. They gave us a bride price of 20,000 yuan. Come here, 20,000 yuan. Mom, hurry up and give the money to Mom. Hurry up and give the money back. If I don't marry, I'll give it back. If I don't marry, I'll give it back. I won't marry my parents. I'm still young. Why are you so young? I look like you. When I was this old, I gave birth to your second sister when I was your age. I told you that I have to tie you up today. Old Xue family, let go of me. Help, help, parents, what are you doing? Sister, they want me. If you marry Xue Shixi, then Xue Shixi is a little bastard. You are trying to push Shengnan into the fire pit. You are trying to push Shengnan into the fire pit. Don't be silly. Third sister, you go first. Third sister, you go first. Hey, Third Sister, run quickly, Mom and Dad, don't stop like this. Second Sister, they, Second Sister, they, they shouldn't be able to catch up, right? Third Sister, this is eighty yuan. Third Sister, this is eighty yuan. Third Sister, this is eighty yuan. This jade pendant was left by my grandpa. You take it and see. The eldest sister and the second sister can only help you until now. Come on, let's go. Second sister, let's go. What will you do if I leave? You must live a good life. 2 Sister, don't come back. Second sister, let's go. Second sister, it's been six years. I don't know if my parents will have a different opinion of me when I come back this time. Lin Ji, you will secretly investigate Mr. Lin when you come back this time. You will also secretly investigate the loan accounts when you come back. It's best not to be so quick to alert the snake when things don't match up. Wait for me. I'll change my clothes and then rush into the village. I'll take off my clothes and rush into the village again. Okay, Liu Jing, it seems my identity can't be hidden for much longer. So what should I do? Mr. Lin will tell you what to do. Okay, by the way, Liu Jing, don't call me Mr. Lin in the village. Just call me Shengnan. It 's Liu Jing. Look, is there someone in the dog cage? Second sister, second sister, second sister, second sister, second sister, second sister, please wait for me. I'll save you right away. Second sister, are you Katsunan? Second sister, it's me. Katsunan is back. Katsunan is back. Katsunan gets out of the way. Third sister, second sister. Second sister, tell me. Second sister, tell me who forced you to do this. Who put you in a dog cage like this? Third sister, run quickly. Run as far as you can. Second sister, I won't leave. Second sister, I won't leave. Second sister, I won't leave. Tell me who did it. Second sister, who did it to you? If it's like this, please say it quickly. Third sister, this is a fire pit. Third sister, this is a fire pit. Third sister, this is a fire pit. You shouldn't come back. You shouldn't come back. When you ran away six years ago, your mother wanted to make a business trip. I forced my eldest sister to marry into the Xue family. My mother forced me to marry my eldest sister into the Xue family for business purposes. Every day, life was worse than death. Every day, life was worse than death. Now my younger brother is getting married. They don't have money to buy a car or a house, so they plan to marry me too. If I don't obey, they will beat me up and put me in this dog cage. They will let me out only after I say I am obedient. How could they do this to you? Second sister, don't worry, I will be with them from now on. They don't dare to force you anymore. They don't dare to force you anymore. Third sister, you better run away. If your parents know that you are coming back, they will definitely beat you to death. They will definitely beat you to death. Please leave quickly. Second sister, I won't leave. Second sister, second sister. Sister, I won't leave. Second sister , stop, you damn money-loser. You've been running away for six years. You still have the nerve to come back. Who are you? I don't care about my daughter. I do n't care about this third daughter of the Lin family. Isn't she old? She's not old. Is this the third daughter of the Lin family ? Isn't this the third daughter of the Lin family? Isn't this the third daughter of the Lin family? She must have suffered a lot outside wearing such a shabby dress. She must have suffered a lot outside wearing such a shabby dress. She must have suffered a lot outside wearing such a shabby dress. She can't survive. I'm back. That 's right. I guess, yes, I guess she must have heard that Shengshi Group invested in our Shiren Village, invested in our Shiren Village, and gave our Shiren Village a loan. She also wanted to come back and get some small money. Wealth is good. You are a money-loser, you are a loser. You are a loser, you are a loser. You are a loser, you are a loser. You are a loser, you are a loser. I will beat you to death today. Stop it. Why are you doing this to her? Why do you treat her like this? I beat my daughter, the Heavenly King, and he can't control me. The Heavenly King and I, he can't control me, and the Heavenly King and I, he can't control me. Do you know who is standing in front of you? Do you know who is standing in front of you? We We traveled a long way here just to investigate with you. Zhu Bajie wears glasses and pretends to be a college student. Is it possible that she has been your wealthy family member these years? Is it possible that she has been your wealthy family member these years? Is it possible that she has been your rich family these years? Look at this man, he's not that good. He didn't even buy any decent clothes for Lin Shengnan . This Lin Shengnan is just a pretty faceless loser. Just, just get out of here, dad. What are you doing? You ran back when the family wanted to share the money. Dad, I didn't come back to share the money. I didn't come back to share the money. What you say is better than what you sing. You don't. To share the money, why does she need to share the money ? How many loans do you need in the whole village? She nodded. She nodded. Do you think she is Mr. Lin? Yes, she is Mr. Lin of Shengshi Group. Oh, too. That's ridiculous, Mr. Lin. Oh, it's so ridiculous. He said she is Mr. Lin. Oh my god, he is Mr. Lin. Then I am Guanyin Bodhisattva. Guanshiyin Bodhisattva. Please ask your Mr. Lin to give a few more millions to our village. Alan, you old Lin family. In what life did the burnt Gaoxiang ancestral tomb become green and a big boss appeared? Oh, where did Mr. Lin come from? Mr. Lin, you are too much. He is indeed Mr. Lin, and he is the richest woman and richest man in Nancheng. Oh my god, it made me laugh. My stomach hurts. Look at what you are wearing. That shabby guy is still pretending to be a big boss. I'll give you a discount on your legs. Get out of here. Get out of here . We don't have a daughter like you in the Lin family. Get out of here with your pretty face. Dad. Mom, Dad, you are such old fools. How could you let my third sister go? We haven't seen each other for six years. You are tall and handsome now. Take your dirty hands away. Mom, my second sister would rather be beaten and put in a dog cage than get married. It's a good idea to let her marry my son. She's young and younger than her. Hey, maybe [ __ ] Li will give us tens of thousands more. Mom, I beg you, don't marry your third sister to [ __ ] Li. I won't run away if I marry you. I won't run away. It's too crazy for me to marry you. You are simply devil parents. I'm warning you that if you dare to let your second sister marry, I will cancel all the loans in your Shiren Village. Oops, I asked you to cancel and you still can't cancel. I let you. You cancel but you still can't cancel, you damn money-losing guy, what are you talking nonsense about? If you say you want to withdraw, then withdraw. You think you are the big boss? Oh, let me tell you the truth. Those who apply for loans for us are the ones who apply for loans for us. Your eldest brother-in-law Xue Shixi is your eldest brother-in-law Xue Shixi. He is from the Shengshi Group. He is from the Shengshi Group. It seems that there is no such person in Xue Shixi's list. You really think of yourself as a leader. You even pretend to look like him. Give it to me. Shut up. It's not my dad who asked you to go to the village to pick up Mr. Lin from Shengshi Group. Why are you wasting your time? Hahahahaha. Who is this ? This is Xue Shixi who stole a sum of money from home and ran away six years ago. Who is this woman next to you? Ah, where is my eldest sister? Where is my eldest sister? You still have the nerve to mention this to me for six years. It has been six years since you gave birth to a girl and gave birth to another girl. I tell you, the Sangmenxing who married into our family is nowhere near us. Jia Anxia is fine. The doctor said it's a boy and the baby will be born in 5 months. Xue Shixi, you are a scumbag. How dare you scold me? You dare to beat me like a beast. Do you still need to choose a date? If you don't want it anymore, your brother is short of money to buy a house. Our Lin family can't get the money. I ripped off your skin today. You are a damned loser and you have to pay for it. You want our family to be divorced. Kneel down and apologize to Xue Shixi. You should admit your mistake. It's his parents who treat the eldest sister like this. Don't you care? She married into the Xue family and couldn't even give birth to a son. It's all her fault. The old Xue family didn't divorce her. She should be grateful. Why are you so anxious? Xue Shixi and qf You are all going to have a son. It doesn't matter if the family is rich and has more children. It's not like he doesn't want your eldest sister's child anymore. You guys, brother, said I am a qf. I don't want to have this son. I'm going to beat him. Oh my god, my baby, my little ancestor, what you have in your belly now is our Xue family's baby bump. You must not make any mistakes. Baby, listen to me and don't be angry. I will let this person give it to you now. You kowtow and apologize. Lin Shengnan comes over and kowtows to my little ancestor and apologizes. I won't admit my fault to the beast. I won't admit my mistake to the beast. Okay. This is the attitude of the old Lin family, right ? Now I announce that the 500,000 loan from the old Lin family will now be given to the old Li family. Give it to me. Thank you. Oh, this time I can buy a house in the city and enjoy a happy life. Oh, Shixi, don't be like this. Don't be like this. I'll ask her to tell you right away. Okay, Kung Nan, kneel down. I won't kneel down for the beast. Stop it. Stop it. Give it to me. Brother- in-law, sister-in-law, apologize, apologize, apologize. If your brother can't buy a house and get a wife, I'll sell you to the mountains to raise money. Apologize, you loser. Don't hit the third sister, you're a rip-off. Second sister, what are you looking at, son? You dare to hit me, you have made enough trouble, haven't you? I still have some hope for you, but I didn't expect you to be like this now. You want to buy a car, a house, and a wife, right? You want to buy a car, a house, and a wife, right? You want to buy a car, a house, and a wife, right? Daughter-in-law, okay, the 2 million in this card is my repayment for your kindness in raising me. But from today on, I, Lin Shengnan, have no relationship with the Lin family. It's pretty much like that. That's not what I said. You took a card with no money, I didn't tell you to take a card with no money. You also want to get away with it. Lin Shengnan, I know you will find trouble in all kinds of ways as soon as you come back this time. I know you are jealous that An Xia can live a good life and enjoy happiness with me. What's this? I just see you as a pretty person. Hey, you can compensate me for one night. Then I will allocate an additional 500,000 yuan to your old Lin family and pay back 20,000 yuan less in interest. Oh, what a good son-in-law. What you just said is true, Xue Shixi. You are not a person. How many years have you been selling outside? Now how many hands are there? I don't know how to give you a chance to land. Do n't you know how to be shameless? If you dare to hit me, I will hit you. How can I kill you? You have the ability to get through in advance. I can't believe that after 6 years, not only have you not improved, but you are still like this. This is so disappointing to me. Cancel all the loans to Shirenzhai. Cancel all the loans to Shirenzhai. Isn't it Lin Shengnan, are you crazy? Approval for the multi-million loan project. That's the Shengshi Group. The No. 1 Group in Nancheng is the Shengshi Group. Who do you think you are ? You really have a blind eye and don't know the pearl. Standing in front of you is Mr. Lin of the Shengshi Group. She is the famous richest woman in Nancheng. Will you know the richest woman in a moment? Will you know in a moment? I'll tell you to cancel all the loan projects in Shirenzhai. Mr. Lin just made the decision to cancel all the loan projects in Shirenzhai. You don't have to come here now. You all asked for it. Bring it to me. Did n't I find that you, this pretty boy, can actually act ? Really call my dad, Xue Shixi, don't go too far. Lin Shengnan is my boss. I'm asking you if you've had enough fun. No, I haven't played. I'm Mr. Lin. You are Mr. Lin. I ask your aunt to ride a big horse for you every day. Liu Jing asked Xue Shigui to come over in ten minutes. It's Lin Shengnan. I find you pretending to be awesome, right? I tell you that I am not happy today. Your old Lin family's loan project I risk canceling my loan sharking, marrying a wife, buying a car and a house. If my parents don't have a car or a house, what will Lily and I do? Oh my God, what kind of evil have I done? I gave birth to you, a loser. You are a pest, you cheap girl, you really want our Lin family to lose their incest, why don't you die outside? Well, you came back just to take revenge on us, aren't you the jh, you the jh, I was the one who gave birth to you in the first place? How could I put it in a water tank and drown you? How could I put it in a water tank and drown you? Mom and Dad, that's how you look at me, don't you? If you don't look at me that way, how do you look at you? You are just a pest. You want us to grow old. The Lin family will pay 50,000 yuan. Third sister, don't worry. This second sister, you will be fine. What's the matter, Dad? What did you just say that the ten-million-dollar loan project in Shirenzhai was canceled by Shengshi Group? You are really Mr. Lin of Shengshi Group. Oh, my good sister, why don't you? Tell me earlier, you are Mr. Lin of Shengshi Group. Oh, why didn't you tell me earlier? Oh, my good daughter, you are the big boss of Shengshi Group. The richest woman in Nancheng is me. Hahahaha, I find you guys are so funny. I will follow you. I'm just kidding. You all take it seriously . What do you mean you're joking? She's just a fake. My people told me that the CEO of Shengshi Group has already arrived at Zhaizi Square. He's a man after all. You'll get a thousand cuts. You lose money, you are making us play around . I haven't acted yet. Didn't you watch? Didn't you watch? If you do n't believe it, let's go to the square. Let 's walk around. Let's go to the square. Hey, I gave you bright clothes. Mr. Lin saw it. If you're angry, we have to finish playing, you know? Go home and I'll wait for you. Come on, hurry up! Come on, hurry up! Come on, hurry up! Don't waste time. Mr. Lin, tell me what's going on. If Xue Shigui does n't come over within 10 minutes, there's no need to come over again. Third sister, can you tell me that you are really Mr. Lin of Shengshi Group? I came back just to take you and eldest sister out so that you don't suffer anymore. I want to see who it is. I'm pretending that I'm really lucky enough to pick up such a good car. I have to have fun first before talking about it. Hey, hey, hey, Lin Sheng, hey, you are Mr. Lin of the Shengshi Group. I heard that the village recently got a multi-million loan project. I want to come back and get some. Pen, but now they have misunderstood me as Mr. Lin, then I can just take it, right? Yes, yes, I am Mr. Lin, Xue Shixi, you are doing well, hahaha, you are not as domineering as Mr. Lin, hey, Shengzi, I am the pillar. Brothers who worked together in the past, you are doing well now. You are now the president. Good luck. Lin Sheng of Sheng Group has the word &quot;Sheng&quot;. It seems that he is really Mr. Lin, Brother Sheng. Since we are all fellow villagers, you said we don't have tens of millions. Can each household be given an extra 1 million for the loan project? It's a small thing. It's easy to talk about 1 million. Can the interest be reduced by half? Okay, okay, okay, okay. Oh, that's great. Mom will stew the whole thing for Shengzi. Go eat the chicken, come home quickly, come home Lin Sheng, Lin Sheng, why don't you know you are Mr. Lin? Why do I still need your consent if I am Mr. Lin? Who do you think you are if I am Mr. Lin? Onion, you and I are Mr. Lin of Shengshi Group. Have you thought about the consequences of pretending to be me? Have you thought about the consequences of pretending to be me? You, Mr. Lin, are laughing so hard. Brother Sheng, you do n't have to listen to this [ __ ] at all. You don't have to listen to this [ __ ] at all. Hey, this [ __ ] just said that she is Mr. Lin and that Shirenzhai has these tens of millions of projects, and she said she won't give them Shirenzhai's tens of millions of projects. Lin Shengnan, get out of here. Mr. Lin is right here, don't stay here. It's nonsense. I've seen people like her a lot. They are so poor that they are crazy. They try their best to pretend to be wealthy and act like a big boss. They try every means to pretend to be wealthy and pretend to be a big boss. Then they take advantage of the poor. You say you are Mr. Lin. I already have this kind of evidence. What more evidence do I need? Is my brain not sick? If you are sick, get it treated. Mr. Lin, you are so generous. But there seems to be something wrong with your suit. Why haven't you taken off the tag yet? Why haven't you taken off the tag yet? Hey, what are you doing, Mr. Lin, your clothes are waiting for 7 days to be returned or exchanged without any reason? Well, 188 ah 188 ah 188 ah 188. Isn't that possible? Brother Sheng's suit is 188. How come the lie was exposed and you want revenge? You listen to me. I just wore the wrong clothes for my worker. You don't want to think about it. I drive a luxury car and it cost me tens of millions just for fun. I still need one or two pieces of clothing. That's right. I've seen Brother Sheng drive a car like this on TV. It's tens of millions. Brother Sheng, don't let this [ __ ] spoil your mood. Today, I'll clean her up for you and teach her a lesson. I'm telling you, this slap will make you remember. Don't mess with Brother Sheng. Oh, I'm telling you, don't mess with Brother Sheng. Did you hear that? If you cause less trouble and if you cause more trouble, my legs will be discounted for you. You are a bunch of fools. You are a bunch of fools. This car originally belonged to our Mr. Lin. If you say this car belongs to her, it belongs to you. If you say this car is hers, it's hers. If you say this car is hers, it's hers. Open your eyes and see clearly. Maybe this key is Liu Jing's that fell out when I changed clothes. Hey, this car key is with me. This car is. Mine, I am Mr. Lin, I originally wanted to benefit the people in the village, but now I am disturbed by such a woman pretending to be me. Look, this project of allocating tens of millions of loans to Shiren Village. This project of allocating tens of millions of loans to Shiren Village. Come on, Brother Sheng, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. You can't evacuate our Lin family, just deal with their family, why bother us? You can't withdraw the loan from our Lin family. How can you relieve your anger, Mr. Lin? We'll do it. Okay, as long as you agree to let her do one thing for me, as long as you agree to let her do one thing for me, this loan will be easy to talk about. What are you doing? Let her lick the shoes clean for me. Otherwise, okay, Mr. Lin, as long as you don't cancel it, just invest in that project for us. Damn it, girl, did you hear what Mr. Lin said? Mom and Dad, in your eyes, I'm not even a human being. Don't you have any dignity? Let you lick it, just lick it. Why are there so many things? It's not like you're missing a piece of meat. Hurry up and lick it. What kind of dignity is that? Dignity can buy a wife, a car, and a house. Dignity can buy a wife, a car, and a house. Hurry up and lick you, don't do this, Third Sister, what are you looking at? When the time comes, the multi-million loan project will be gone. Don't even say that I didn't contribute. Hurry up and lick it. Hurry up and lick Xue Shixi, are you crazy? Stop it. Do you dare to touch our Mr. Lin? I will put you in jail for the rest of your life. Xue Shixi, if you dare to touch me, I will make your life worse than death. You dead girl, be honest. You dead girl, be honest. Parents, parents, I am your daughter. This is how you are treated. My own daughter? Is it your own daughter? You damn girl will either lick your shoes or lose a leg. Hurry up and choose the third sister. As long as you sacrifice a little, our old Lin family will have everything. There are many children and grandchildren. It's a good deal. Yes, your brother can't live without a wife. I blame you for looking for trouble. Lin Shengnan, you said that if you licked my shoes earlier, you wouldn't have to have all this trouble. Bah, Lin Sheng, don't be proud. Brother Sheng, don't worry. You dare to stop? Hey, the village master is here. Stop whatever you are doing. Third sister, are you okay? Third sister, are you okay? Make Mr. Lin angry. Dad, why are you kicking me? I want to kick you to death. You have no head. You bastard. Mr. Lin. Oh, Mr. Lin. It's all my fault. It's all my fault. I don't know how to teach my son. Mr. Lin, she is really It's Mr. Lin, she is Mr. Lin, then who is this? He is just a liar. You, Lin Sheng, how dare you lie to us, are you looking for death? I have a car, I have the car keys, and you are still lying here. Hey, Mr. Lin, sir. My lord, there is a large amount. Don't be angry. Your lord has a large amount. Don't be angry. Your lord has a large amount. Don't be angry. Lord Village, send this guy pretending to be me to be interrogated. As for your son who is helping the tyranny. Hey Katsuo, hey Katsuo , I know I was wrong, I know I was wrong, please forgive me, please. I am blind, I am blind, I am wrong, I will change my career in the future, I will definitely change, forgive me, forgive me, Katsuo Lin He is the only son in our Xue family. Please let him go. As for all your loan projects, all your loan projects have been cancelled . There is no loan, so how can I live? These two bastards are beating his daughter. Please try this dish. Please try it. This dish was your favorite when you were a kid. Take a look. Why does your daughter still have a grudge against her mother? I remember that you tore up my admission notice and tied me up to get married. You told me that if I had the ability, I would never give up in this life. Come back, Third Sister, we are a family with broken bones and connected tendons. Why do you talk like this? I remember that we had severed our relationship in the morning. I am no longer a member of the Lin family. That's enough. That's enough. Look at me and you. Mom pooped and peed until you grew up. You should also honor us both. Now that you have money, we don't have anything to ask for. You can just give us 10 million. Dad, the third sister's money is also earned every penny, and it's not a big wind. How can you ask for 10 million for scraping it? Shut up and turn your elbows outward, you idiot. What is the difference between you and a bandit? Did I hit you lightly last time? Your skin is itchy again. Ah, why can't you eat this meal? Is it why you can't eat this meal? Is it why you can't eat this meal? Oh, oh, Katsuo, my good daughter, you also know that your brother is not a virgin, isn't he? Is n't this the right match? I 'm getting married. I'm getting married. I want a car and a house, but I'm still short of 500,000. I want a car and a house, but I'm still short of 500,000. Just give it, right? Third sister, anyway, you have money, you do this and that. You also gave me the 200,000 yuan gift. Then what about the money my parents saved for me? I will spend it after marrying Lily. Do you want to be shameless? In the morning, you said that you would [ __ ] one of our Mr. Lin's legs. How can you have the nerve to propose it now? Such a request for you, an outsider, to take care of our family's affairs means that you are sitting next to my girl like a clove of garlic, but you are like a follower. Do you want to defraud my girl of money? Girl, Mom, let me tell you, this family You have to make it clear between people and outsiders. We can't let that fat water go to outsiders. We can't let that fat water go to outsiders. Enough. You asked me to kneel down for Xue Shixi and lick Lin Sheng's shoes. Now you want to ask me for money. Liu Jing, let's go. Sister, look, don't leave. Third sister, don't forget to give me my betrothal gift money and the money to buy a car and a house. Don't forget to give me the money to buy a car and a house. Hey, look at what you're going to do. Being rich is amazing, parents. I'm telling you, if it's because of money, if it's because of money, if Lily and I can't get married, I won't be able to live anymore. Oh my god, my son, don't think about it. Oh my god, my god, this damn money-loser, don't stop. Our family's incense? He is the richest man in Nancheng. He won't even pay 10 million. You're so conscience-stricken. Just wait. Oh my god, no, even if she vomits today, she has to spit out the money for me. Oh, my parents, Lin Shengnan, isn't this? Don't you care about our eldest sister and second sister? Don't you care about our eldest sister and second sister? Then let the eldest sister and the second sister take care of her money. Liu Jing, you have to go back to the company in person today. Regarding the multi-million loan, you need to re-plan. Lin Is it okay for you to be alone here? It's okay. Go quickly and come back. They don't dare to do anything to me. What's going on? How are you? What's going on with you now? What's going on? He was going to be beaten to death by Xue Shixi. The doctor said again that your fetus is still a girl. Why did you give birth? Give me this bowl of abortion medicine. I don't drink it. My daughter is also a human being. I don't drink it. I don't drink it. How dare you follow me? You talk back to me, you dare to talk back to me, I'm wrong, why don't you talk back to me, I'm wrong, why don't you give me a girl , my child , my child, my child, I'm telling you, you are just as annoying as your sister, why don't you approve it? My loan, now I haven't even done a little business. Do you know how much do we lose? Lin Shengnan is what she is today because of your great kindness in marrying her. She will always remember it. She listens to you in everything. You asked her to add the name of our Xue family to the tens of millions loan project, but this It's not something I can decide. I can't change anything. You're still talking back now. Did n't I convince you? Stop it. Big sister, big sister Xue Shixi, how dare you do this to me, big sister? No, no, this is a misunderstanding. We are joking. Just playing with Xue Shixi, do you know that it is illegal to beat your wife? If there is another time, I will make it hard for you. Sister, Shengnan, I'm sorry, sister, I'm late. Sister, elder sister, elder sister, Liu Jing, go find someone to collect evidence of Xue Shixi's cheating . I have sent you the evidence of domestic violence. You must help my eldest sister out of the misery as soon as possible. Divorce that scumbag. It's Mr. Lin, eldest sister Shengnan. Why are you back? This is a fire pit. Run away. Sister, I will come back to find you and the second sister. I didn't expect that you would be like this. Don't think so. These are all done willingly by my sister. I don't blame your eldest sister and second sister. I came back this time to take you away. Your third sister is now promising and capable. Your third sister is now prosperous and capable. I can support you all. You hurry up and divorce that Xue Shixi. After that, I will raise you and the child. I will raise Shengnan. Marry a chicken, follow a chicken, marry a dog, follow a dog. Sister, are you confused? Do you want Xue Shixi to live every day in the future? Are you being violent? Third sister is now capable. You have to believe me. Yes, eldest sister and third sister are telling the truth. But if Sister Shengnan gets divorced or is a second-married woman, it won't sound good. Sister, you will know if you go out with me. No one outside cares about this. You have to believe me. You can't look down on yourself so much. You don't have to worry about the divorce. I will handle it. Sister, sister, you have been wronged these years. Sister, I will wait for you after you are discharged from the hospital. You're a gift. Third sister, what are we doing here ? I'm buying you a house. Third sister, you're crazy. The houses here are so expensive. Big sister and second sister, I plan to buy three houses together. We sisters, we finally got together and we will live close to each other in the future. It's better to take care of each other. Sister, please watch me go to the bathroom first. It's too expensive. You three are here to see a house. Let me introduce to you. We have the best houses in Nancheng. The largest area is Shengshi. The real estate invested by the group, I thought it was a few rich women, but it turned out to be a bunch of country bumpkins. It's you, you are the mistress, like the male manager, you and me, what are you? If I don't want to be fired, get out of here. Why are you beating me? Are n't you just a stinky mistress? You are not loved. Yes, that's what you call a mistress. And she can't even control her husband with just one slap. Do you still have to blame others? Look at your outfit, which you bought for 9 yuan and 9 with free shipping. You say it's tattered. I'm so proud of you. No one picked up the trash can that was thrown outside the door. You couldn't really have picked it up from the trash can. No wonder I smelled garbage as soon as you came in. An Xia, shut up. You should shut up. It's you, I advise you. If you are sensible, you should divorce Shixi as soon as possible. After all, we already have a child, and he is the son you asked for. You and I tell you, my sister doesn't care about that [ __ ] man. They will divorce me soon. I wish you, this pair of [ __ ], an eternity, so leave as soon as possible. Why are you dragging your feet? Do you want to wait for the Xue family's 1 million loan to make a fortune? Xue Shixi is old and has no ability. I'm afraid you will fall in love with him. Because of his money, shut up and come and drag these two country bumpkins out. The threshold of the sales office of our Huaxing Palace is not something that can be stepped on. Who dares to touch my sister? Give it a try. By the way, there is this counterfeit. Mr. Huo Lin, drag the three of them out together. Drag the three of them out together. Drag the three of them out together. Lin Shengnan, you dare to hit me. Why am I so afraid? You just hit my sister. Is n't that brave enough? I'm so angry. The security guard drags all three of them out quickly. Drag all three of them out quickly. Let 's see who dares to touch you. Is this how Huaxing Palace treats its customers who buy houses? Customers? You country bumpkins, do you know how much a house here costs? 50 million, don't talk about 50 million. You don't even have 5,000 yuan. An Xia looks down on others, but she will suffer. Third sister, 50 million is too expensive. We can't even think about it. Don't buy it. Sister, this mistress just humiliated you, can you bear it? Mistress, you don't know yet, right? We Shengnan, but the president of Shengshi Group, if you offend her, are n't you afraid that he will withdraw his investment in your Huaxing Haoting real estate? She is also the Shengshi Group. President, if she is really Mr. Lin, I can buy dozens of houses here casually. It's no problem. Can you afford it? Can you afford it? I'll tell him today. If Lin Shengnan is Mr. Lin, I'll buy this property. Everyone has heard it. Okay, here is a black card with 200 million in it. Go and swipe it. Lin Sheng is still acting. Lin Sheng dressed up as a rich woman and pretended to be a rich woman on my head. Could this be some kind of phone card? Go get the card machine. Come on, Lin Shengnan, let me warn you one last time. You can either kneel down and kowtow to me now and admit your mistake. Or I will let you know the cost of deceiving this lady. Manager An, please hurry up and return it to the manager. Will you swipe it? The transaction of 110 million has been successful. This is impossible. I know that this card must have been stolen by you, right? Are you blind? This card clearly has my third sister's name on it. Lin Shengnan. Since the money has been paid, sign the contract. What are you so proud of? If we do n't sign this contract, I won't get the house. If you don't want to sell it, are you sure? I am the manager of Huaxing Haoting. Everything here is decided by me. I won't sell it if I say it won't be sold. What can you do to me? An Xia, can you bear the consequences of what you say? I'll tell you. In this place, in this place, everything must be obeyed by me, D, even if Mr. Zhao comes today, I will still say no, feed Mr. Zhao. Am I Mr. Zhao, Lin Shengnan of Shengshi Group? I am Lin Shengnan, of Shengshi Group. I give you three minutes to get out of the hall right away. One minute late, I withdrew 100 million yuan and you are still performing here. The sugar daddy has saved a few dirty money. The sugar daddy has saved a few dirty money. You really think of yourself. Mr. Lin, our major shareholder, who am I? Will someone tell you three that you are blind? Throw them out quickly. If you don't throw them out, I will fire you all. Stop it, Mr. Zhao. Why come here when you have time? By the way, these three country bumpkins are pretending to be our president. I am helping you teach them a lesson. Mr. Zhao, you are blind. Mr. Lin, calm down. Mr. Lin, please calm down. I am not strict in disciplining my subordinates. Your Excellency has a lot of her. It's Mr. Lin from Shengshi Group, Mr. Zhao, who said that I can't buy a house after I paid. This person said that I can't buy a house after I paid. This person said that I can't buy a house after I paid. Ms. Lin, she is talking nonsense here. I'm the one who decides on the three houses you just favored. I'll give them to you for free and return all the money you just paid for. Mr. Zhao, I know it's not your fault. But the manager you personally promoted not only acts as someone else's underdog, but also has a bad reputation. If this kind of person stays in the company, then I have to consider the issue of investment. You pack your things immediately and get out. Mr. Zhao. Mr. Zhao doesn't want it. Mr. Zhao, please throw this person out. Wait a minute, Mr. Lin. Mr. Lin, I was wrong. Your Excellency. Please forgive me, okay? I was wrong. Apologize to my sister. Runan Superman is sorry. I was wrong. Please forgive me. I still have a large family to support. Okay, you can go away. Mr. Lin, Mr. Zhao, don't fire me. Don't fire me, let me go. I've caused my mother to lose her job. I won't let you go. A total of 3 suites worth 200 million. A total of 3 suites worth 200 million. A total of 3 suites worth 200 million. A total of 3 suites worth 200 million. 200 million. Brother-in-law, what did you say? 200 million. 200 million. Lin Shengnan bought 3 suites in Huaxing Haoting. The three houses Lin Shengnan bought in Huaxing Haoting. The three houses Lin Shengnan bought in Huaxing Haoting are worth almost 200 million. This white-eyed wolf took 200 million and didn't know how to show respect to us, but he built a house for those two losers. What the hell kind of house are you building for those two losers? What the hell kind of house are you building for those two losers? If I had known, I would have fawned over my third sister. If I had known, I would have fawned over my third sister. Mom, I don't care. Do n't worry if you want a house. Son, Lin Shengnan's money is our money. Lin Shengnan's house is also our house. I said I'd give it to you, so I'll give it to you. Thank you, Mom. Come, Dad, have a piece of meat. It's almost 9 o'clock. It's almost 9 o'clock. Why hasn't this stinky [ __ ] come back? Hey, why is it you, my wife? I hate it when people miss you, so why can't you come? Yes, but I don't have time today. I'll go find you another day. Another day, do you still want the son in your belly? Think about it, of course. Anyway, that [ __ ] hasn't come home yet. Even if he comes home and sees him, he won't dare to cause trouble. Little vixen, I'll serve you well tonight. I'm here. Sister, just listen to my advice and don't come back to this house. Sheng The male sister knows that you are all doing this for my own good, but after all, Shixi and I already have two daughters. Sister, listen to me, just treat him like a man and give him a chance. What if he changes his ways? It's early, hurry up and go back, go, why did Mr. Lin send the eldest sister back? The eldest sister grew up here. He has adapted to the surrounding environment. She can't divorce her for a while, so give her some time. Give her some time. Oh, by the way, I asked you to investigate Xue Shixi's cheating evidence. How about it? I've collected it all, and there's a surprise. What a surprise. I found out that this Xue Shixi also embezzled the loan amount we gave to the villagers worth 3 million. This Xue Shixi is so bold. Xue Shixi is a bastard. Usually you guys You let me know about the dirty things you did. Forget it, you brought her home to bed. The two children are still sleeping in the next room. How will you behave after you let them hear about it? Oh, it's not over. Why don't you buy Lin Shengnan a house for you? Show me the contract. I don't have a contract. I don't want a house. I don't have a contract. I don't want a house. Let me tell you the truth. I'm going to beat you to death today. I just want to strangle you to death. I make you cry. I want to kill you. Help, oh, eldest sister, eldest sister, I was wrong. Liu Jing, please call 120. Ah, I killed someone. Shut up. Please pray that eldest sister is okay. If something happens to eldest sister, I will not let you go. How is the condition of the third sister and the eldest sister now? The doctor said that her life is no longer in danger. Isn't this what happened? The two couples were fighting and they came to the hospital. This was not a fight but domestic violence. Third sister, why are you so angry? Besides, you can't talk to me. Mom, what are you talking about? Get out of the way. We are here to see Super Man. Go out, damn girl. Whatever you want to do, the doctor has already told her. Sister, she needs to recuperate in this state, so don't disturb her. You acquiesce to Xue Shixi's domestic violence against her again and again. What were you thinking before? Why do n't you be so serious about her third sister? Oops, I know Mom was wrong. Did n't I care about your sister ? You can't forgive Mom. You can't forgive Mom. You can't forgive Mom. If you really knew. You're wrong. You should support the divorce between eldest sister and Xue Shixi. Xue Shixi is a respectable person. We can't afford to offend him. Shengnan, you don't understand. Shengnan, you don't understand. Shengnan, you don't understand. What if you say your eldest sister? If you get divorced, who will support your eldest sister and those two children? Who will support your eldest sister and those two children? I guarantee that when Xue Shixi divorces your eldest sister, Xue Shixi will get 1 million as a reward. When Xue Shixi gets divorced, he will get 1 million as a reward. When Xue Shixi gets divorced, he will get 1 million as a reward. What's left of Xue Shixi belongs to my old Lin family. This marriage must be divorced. As for the divorce fees, you can't even get a penny. Kick them out. If any of you dare to disturb my eldest sister's rest again, I'm not done with you. What do you want to do? What do you want to do? Lin Shengnan, I am her mother. Lin Shengnan, I am her mother. Why are you bothering me? Why are you arresting me? Lin Shengnan, you are an unfilial girl. Believe it or not, I will ruin your reputation. You are rich. No flowers for the family. Oh, oh, oh, third sister, you are so awesome. You should treat them like this. Second sister, I have already found someone to decorate the house. You should move here quickly. You should move here quickly, Mr. Lin. Let's find professionals to take a look. If the eldest sister wants to divorce Xue Shixi after this, we are absolutely sure of victory. When the eldest sister wakes up, I will take her to get a divorce. Oh my god, oh my god, this damn money loser. She actually threw me out. She actually threw me out. What should I do if my mother comes out and goes wrong? I have to talk to Lily in the afternoon about buying a car and a house. How can I tell her about buying a car and a house? Son, just go see Lily. I will go to your sister's company right now. I'll go to your sister's company right now to make trouble. I'll let the whole world know about her. The big boss of Shengshi Group is ruthless, ruthless and unfilial. Daughter is ruthless, ruthless and unfilial. Daughter is ruthless, ruthless and unfilial. Daughter. See if she listens to me. Is the banana sweet? That peach This peach is delicious. That peach? This peach is delicious. I want to eat it too. You can eat more. What are you doing? Eldest sister and second sister. My company is in a hurry. I have to go back quickly. Everyone comes to see it. Please comment. My daughter, Lin Shengnan, Ah, now that I have money, I look down on my parents. Now that I have money, I look down on my parents. My parents didn't want me anymore. My parents didn't want me anymore. I raised him like this for nothing. My parents didn't want me anymore. I raised him for nothing. It's so big. Are the people from the Sheng Group? What kind of group is this? Aunt Li, Uncle Lin, what are you doing here? If you make trouble again, I'll ask the security to kick you out. Do you want to kick me out? Are we afraid of you at our age ? Try throwing me out, Lin Shengnan. That's a white-eyed wolf. I worked hard to raise her. I worked hard to raise her. She doesn't recognize her parents. She doesn't recognize her parents. Lin Shengnan comes out. Lin Shengnan comes out. Hey, what are you going to do? Aunt Li, hey, what are you doing? What are you doing ? You want to do something? I'm spitting blood on people. I didn't do anything at all. You beat people, beat me to death, you want to beat people. Oh my God, I didn't expect our Mr. Lin to be such an unfilial person. It's so inhumane. Look at this. My parents don't look like good people. Come out, stay away, and throw these two troublemakers out. Mr. Lin, they are your biological parents after all. They are your biological parents after all. Lin Shengnan, you finally came out. Are you still here? Ask them to throw me out and I won't go out. You throw me out. Try throwing me out. Throw me out and I'll be sick. I'll be sick. I'll be sick. Oh, I'll be sick. I'll be sick. If something happens, I'll be responsible. Oh no, kill me. Oops, no, kill someone, come here, no, call an ambulance. Auntie Lin seems to be really uncomfortable. Auntie seems to be really uncomfortable. What's wrong with mom? What's wrong with mom? Doctor, what's wrong with my mother? This is your mother. She gave it to me and asked me to make a false case of a serious illness. But now I want to tell you that your mother really has a terminal disease. The test results show that she is still in the early stage of terminal illness. Old lady, you are still smart. Old lady, you are still smart. Oh, you can come up with something like this. Here's a good idea. This loser will definitely give us a lot of money this time. Then we will live in a big house in the city and find Dongliang a wife who can give birth to a son. Then we can find Dongliang a wife who can give birth to a son. Find a daughter-in-law for Dongliang who will give birth to a son. Let Dongliang join the Shengshi Group and become the big boss. Oh, our Dongliang will be honored this time. This time, he will be honored. Yes, I didn't marry the wrong one in the first place. You're dead, old man, mom's hospitalization procedures have been completed. Three months after the procedure is completed, you will arrange for surgery or in-patient surgery. Your disease requires surgery. Girl, my mother, I know my body myself. Please bring me the money. I will check it myself. You don't need it. I have two. One card is worth 5 million, one is 10 million, and one is 10 million. If you choose this card of 5 million, I will support you from now on and ensure that you have food and drink. If you choose this card of 10 million, we will be cut off from now on. The relationship is worth it. Oh, let me tell you, don't even dream. You are my daughter for a day. We will spend your money until you die. That's what we should do. If you want to break off the relationship with us, there's no way. It's really not that easy to break off the relationship. With this money, you must go for a full physical examination. You are a loser. I wish I would get sick and let me die. I am in good health. Oh, old man, this is 5 million. This is 10 million. I have never seen so much money in my life. Oh my. This time you can post it. Hey Lu Xiao, what's wrong? Sheng Nan, my mother said that we have been dating for three years. It's time to meet you. It's time to meet you. Don't worry, they won't dislike you. It's good that I conceal my identity and Lu Xiao has been together for three years. I just took this opportunity to tell them my identity. I asked someone about it. It's a boy. Lily, you are so awesome. What are you happy about? What are you happy about? My mother said that if you want this son, you If you want this son, you should come up with a gift of 1 million, a car worth 1 million, a house in the city center with a car worth 1 million, a house in the city center with a car worth 1 million, and a house in the city center with a car worth 1 million. There is also a house in the city center with a gift of 1 million yuan, a car with 1 million yuan, and a house. Don't tell me that you don't have these. Lin Dongliang, you are a waste. I tell you to give you a month. If you can't come up with these, you can Don't even think about seeing me. Hey Lily, let's talk it over and discuss it. Dad, what's the matter? Where is the 15 million that the third sister gave our parents? Here it is, here it is, here it is, here it is. That's great. I can marry Lily. Let's go. Let's get out of the hospital. Let's have a good meal. Let's go. Let's get out of the hospital. Let's have a good meal. Show off to them. Hey, my wife, what's wrong with you? Mom, what's wrong with you? I'm a little confused. It's okay. I'm okay. I'm okay. I'm okay. I'm so happy. It's okay. Let's go. Ms. Li Ailan, what are you going to do? Are you kidding? You have to be hospitalized for chemotherapy. You will have surgery next month. Otherwise, the condition will get worse quickly. I have cancer. What are you talking about? My mother is in good health. Here, you black-hearted doctors dare to say anything to make money. Do you think I didn't give you enough red envelopes? You accepted Lin Shengnan's red envelope again. You two teamed up to defraud me of my money. I confiscated her red envelope. Shut up. You're talking nonsense, I won't listen to a word of it. Get out, get out, black-hearted doctor, hurry up, black-hearted doctor, hurry up, old man, hurry up, let's go. This hospital is all black. I've thought about it. I want to divorce him. Sister, that's right. Sister, you are right. I can't go with you about the divorce. I can't go with you. Let the second sister and them go with you. Don't worry. If you have anything to do, call me anytime. I will definitely break up with him this time. We must break up with him. The old Lin family has received 15 million. I have nothing. Lin Chaonan, Lin Shengnan, look at it for me. Hey, Lin Sheng. What are you doing? He has an idea to make money. Do you want to do it with any of you? Hahahaha. Wife, you are back. Don't do it. Touch me, I'm here to divorce you Lin Chaonan. If you want to dump me and live a good life with your children, go ahead. Xue Shixi, I told you I will take away your two daughters. As for you, we will have no relationship from now on. As for you, we will have no relationship from now on. It has nothing to do with me. Do n't touch me. Why are you letting go of me? Miss, please let me ask you. Do you need more jewelry? Butler Kang told my adoptive father that there is no need for these. They are already worth 20 million. That 's enough. There's no need to spend any more. It's enough. There's no need for more. Okay, miss, please take it. Miss, hello. This is the first time Katsunan meets his aunt. He brought her some greeting gifts. Now, my mother will definitely not say anything. Let's go. Now, my mother will definitely not say anything. Let's go. Okay, now my mother won't say anything. Let's go. Auntie, won't you agree with our relationship? Don't worry, Shengnan has everything with me. Mom, this is my girlfriend Shengnan. Auntie, please take two steps and let me see. Except This face is okay, this body is shriveled, this body is shriveled, this body is shriveled, and I am old can you give birth to a son? Auntie, this is a little meeting gift that my adoptive father and I brought you Do you know that this woman has a foster father? Do you know that this woman has a foster father? Do you know that this woman has a foster father? What's wrong with the aunt? Don't tell me. In reality, this is a godfather or a foster father. It 's just a hiding place. A shield for filth. Mom, please stop talking. Katsuo said that his adoptive father was in business. Katsuo said that his adoptive father was in business. A few years ago, she accidentally saved someone's life and that's why he agreed to accept her as his adopted daughter. Moreover, Ah, his adoptive father has no children, and all his property from now on will belong to Sheng Nan. Seung Nan, sit down quickly. So, Sheng Nan, what kind of business does your adoptive father do? My adoptive father does some real estate business. My adoptive father does some real estate business. My adoptive father does some real estate business . My father is engaged in some real estate business. Is he really good at putting gold on his own face? In fact, he is a migrant worker on a construction site. How much money can he make in a day? Ten billion, one hundred and one. Son, you don't sound like I'm worse than a migrant worker. I'm worse than a migrant worker. I'm worse than a migrant worker. I'm worse than a son. Only a woman like me can't ask for my mother no matter what. I really like Sheng Nan. Since my son likes you, you should be poorer. Forget it, but do you have a household registration in our Nancheng? Yes, how big is the house? Is it in the city center? A few hundred square meters? My adoptive father likes quietness, so he bought it in the suburbs. It's just a dirt yard in the countryside. Auntie, you only look at people. Does he have money ? Does he have a house? Does he have a house? Lin Shengnan, our Lu family is in Nancheng. Lin Shengnan, our Lu family is also a well-known family in Nancheng. Recently, we are cooperating with Shengshi Group. In the future, our net worth will double several times. Shengshi Group is just right for me. Auntie Lin, the Shengshi Group, didn't bother you, what do you do? Oh, let him come to Lily, sit and sit next to my aunt. Sitting this aunt. This is a gift I specially picked you. What about the South African diamonds? Oh, look, our Lily is worthy of being the daughter of the chairman of Shengshi Group. This move is more elegant than those country bumpkins. What did you say? She is the daughter of the chairman of Shengshi Group. Yes, our Lily is the daughter of Kang Shengshi, the chairman of Kangshi Group. When is the foster father of daughter Kang Lili multiple daughters? When is the foster father of multiple daughters? When is the foster father multiple daughters? Ms. Lin, my father has never made my identity public in order to protect my safety. It's normal that you don't know. You don't. It's normal to know. It turns out to be a fake Lu Xiao. We can cooperate with Kang's Group thanks to Lily's help. You shouldn't express your feelings. Lu Xiao, I also prepared a gift for you. This Rolex is very suitable for you at first glance. This Rolex suits you very well at first glance. I have seen it is worth more than 2 million. Lily, I can't accept your kindness. Oh, if you don't accept it, I will accept it. Lily, you are so attentive to us, Lu Xiao. Lily Yeah, you are really considerate towards us, Lu Xiao, unlike some country bumpkins. Hey, the gifts are all street stall goods. Miss Lin, I didn't know you were there today. Miss Lin, I didn't know you were there today. Otherwise, I would have prepared a gift for you. I will prepare a gift for you, otherwise I will prepare a gift for you, Miss Kang. Your tone of voice is so healthy. It smells like green tea. Auntie, look at her. Lin Shengnan quickly apologized to our Lily. Auntie, I brought tens of millions of diamonds. I didn't expect you to be so illiterate. Who wouldn't be bragging? With your worth, the most you can do is go to a 2-yuan store to get some rags. At most, you can go to a 2-yuan store to get some rags. I think the one who gets the rags is She, I think she is the one who took the tattered ones. Good reviews and cashback of 2 yuan. Isn't this 9 yuan 9 with free shipping? Lily, what's going on ? Is this watch really 9 yuan 9 with free shipping? Is this watch really 9 yuan 9? Is it free shipping? Oh, please tell me quickly. Of course it's not. I know that the watch I bought must have been stolen by my driver. I'm going back to find him now. Go to the driver. Oh, where is your driver? Ask him to come here now. Lin Shengnan, what are you arguing about? You, Lily, are the daughter of Kang Shengshi. She is worth hundreds of billions, so she can't have bargains, right? Aunt Lily, you still understand me, Lily. If you were my daughter-in-law, I would wake up laughing in my dreams, Mom Shengnan. Lin Shengnan is still here. She is a native leopard from the countryside. She is a native leopard from the countryside. We, Lily, are the daughter of Shengshi Group. In the future, Shengshi Group will be hers, right? Aunt Lily, what a coincidence. I am the current president of Shengshi Group. Shengnan, is it true what you just said? Is it true? I just took office not long ago and the inauguration banquet will be held in a few days, so I didn't have time to tell you, Shengnan, you are so awesome. It's impossible. Lin Shengnan, you must be lying. This is too much bragging. Come on, if you are the president of Shengshi Group, if you are the president of Shengshi Group, then how come we, Lily, have never seen you? She is the daughter of the chairman of Shengshi Group. Shut up, OK, shut up. I don't want to hear your lies. Chapter Lu Xiao, hurry up and send this liar out. We don't welcome her here. I just want to treat our Lily to dinner. Don't forget that cooperation with Shengshi Group depends on Lily. Lu Xiao, don't believe him. Kang Shengshi doesn't have any children at all. He only admits it. A foster daughter is an aunt. Since Lu Xiao doesn't want to keep me, I'll leave first. When I go back, I'll also tell my father about adding another 50 million to your company. Lily, Lily, Lily, don't leave yet. Just stay here. We'll be there soon. Order food Lu Xiao Shengnan, I still love you, but my family really needs this investment now. Then I'll sit down. What are you still doing standing there? Licking your face, why don't you stay and eat? Lu Xiao, I don't feel very well. I'm leaving first. Well, I want to climb the dragon and the phoenix. Country bumpkin hum, Lu Xiao, why the hell are you so snobby ? Who are you? What are you doing ? You are bleeding. What's wrong with you? Come on, get up. I'll take you to the hospital. This patient was stabbed with a knife. It's better to take him to the hospital. It's not life-threatening in time. Thank you doctor. Why are you up? Lie down. Wait a minute. What are you doing? I'm divorced. Okay. Wait. I'll come right now. I've already paid the medical bills. I have to leave in advance. My name is Xiao Ze. What's your name? Why are you so weird? Big sister, second sister, third sister, and third sister. Look, big sister, you are free now. Great. Big sister, you are free now. Great. Big sister. Now you are free. Great. Xue Shixi, let me tell you if you dare to bully me again. My eldest sister, your life in the future will not be easy. Your life in the future will not be easy. Don't you dare? Elder sister and second sister, I will enroll you in the adult class. You will study hard and come to my company to manage the company. Third sister, don't worry, sisters. Ah, I will definitely study hard. Then let's go home. Lin Sheng, I'll tell you what happened. That stinky [ __ ] divorced me. I hate it so much that I didn't even get a hair. I'll tell you what I told you. If you If you can't do it, I'll kill you carefully. Find out. Don't worry. Lin Dongliang has already given 3 million. Lin Dongliang has already given 3 million, but it's not enough. You can find another 3 million, otherwise all your efforts will be wasted. This effort has been wasted. All my savings are only 3 million. Shixi, please think clearly. After the matter is completed, what we will get is Sunzuka's 1, 5 million. I know, I know. Wow, Brother Sheng, you are too awesome, right? Just have a big boss to take care of him. I understand. Sheng Zi's three million is worthy of being the big boss. He's worthy of being the big boss. He's really generous. Handsome guy, have a drink at the bar. Handsome guy, have a drink at the bar. Shengzi will do it later. From now on, Shengzi, you can take me with you. As long as you can earn me enough 20 million, you will be my brother from now on. Don't worry, Dongliang, you can give me this 3 million in two days and I can double it in two days. I can make it double, hahaha, [ __ ], son, you and Lily went to dinner last night. Why didn't you come back all night? Mom, don't ask, son. That's right. Lily's identity, Lin Shengnan, is no better than Lily's identity, Lin Shengnan. Lily's identity is incomparable to Lin Shengnan's. What's more, she's full of lies. What's more, she's full of lies. Let me tell you, you can't believe a word of her words. Mom, I will weigh the pros and cons, Mr. Lin. The Shengshi Group you took over has just been listed for a month. The turnover has exceeded 200 million and the stock has increased by 2 percentage points. Mr. Lin, but many employees in the company don't know you yet. Do you think we should move the inauguration banquet forward? You can arrange it. It will be held in 3 days at Junhao Hotel. Chairman Lin I want to invite you for tea. It's true that I haven't seen my adoptive father for a long time. Can I have tea and chat with him? Okay, sir, your tea is your adoptive father. Miss Lin, Katsuo, is here. You girl, why are you so busy that you don't have time to see me now? Why are you so busy? It's only now that you have time to see me. Why are you so busy that you have time to see me? I thought you didn't want me, a bad old man. What did you say, stepfather? Come and sit down. Without you, I wouldn't be able to have my day today. Is it over? Is this not going to the earth? Is this endless? Is this not going to heaven? Is this endless? Is this not going to heaven? Is this not ending? Get out of the way. The patient needs ventilation. Old man, old man, old man, old man, please wake up, old man. Little girl, this old man extorts money at the first sight. You can't help him. He's extorting your money just because you don't have much money. So run away right. Run away. What medicine are you looking for? Where is the medicine? In the old man's pocket, this old man is about to die. Old man, stay away and quickly call 120. I can't fight. I can't fight. Walk around, walk around, go. Feed 120? Feed 120? There is an old man who fainted near the park. Chairman, uncle, you are the president of Kangshi Group. Yes, thank you for saving me that day. Otherwise, if there is no one to manage such a big company, then it will be nothing more than a little effort. Hahaha, you are not only a good character. I see your resume. Your work ability is also very good. From now on, you will come to work in my company, right ? That's too much. Okay, thank you. I should [ __ ] to thank you. Girl, I heard that your parents were greedy recently. I heard that your parents were greedy recently. They went to the company to make trouble for you. They caused trouble to the company. I'm sorry for the foster father's trouble for the company. I'm sorry for the foster father's company. The company is prospering under your leadership. The company is prospering under your leadership. Is there anything I'm sorry for? I'm just worried that you heard that someone almost beat you up recently. How dare you bully my daughter, Kang Shengshi? I will never let this kind of thing happen to my adoptive father after he comes up. No, it's hard for villains to guard against. No, it's hard for villains to guard against. So, foster father has arranged a personal bodyguard for you to protect your personal safety. To protect your personal safety. Safety, this kid can fight one against a hundred. One against a hundred . He is the one who broke through the hail of bullets. He is the one who broke through the hail of bullets. He is the one who broke through the hail of bullets. You will know it when you meet him. Xiao Ze, come in, Xiao Ze, come in, we meet again. What's wrong with you? You've known each other before, are you foster fathers? In fact, we just met once, it doesn't count as acquaintance, it's fate. Su Ze, I will remember you in college from now on. The young lady is here when you are not here. The eldest lady is also here. He is a foster father. Have you investigated Xiao Ze's identity and status? I have found out that he was an upright and kind man who grew up in an orphanage. He was seriously injured once and I saved him. He has been with us ever since. Be loyal and loyal to me. Then listen to your adoptive father. This time, I feel relieved. Okay, this time, I feel relieved. Where are you going to go to the mall now, Miss Lily? Why is this poor ghost like Lily following you here again? Am I okay now? It's easy to catch up with Lu Xiao, so hurry up and break up with this poor guy. Lin Dongliang, why are you here again? Lily, I'm rich, let's get married. We have 1 million yuan as a bride price, a 1 million car, a house in the city center, a 1 million car, and Do you have a house in the city, a car worth 1 million, and a house in the city center? Lily, this card has 5 million. What do you mean? 5 million. Lily, I can meet all your conditions . Let's get married right away. This card won't be empty. Well, this card can't be empty. If you don't believe it, I'll show you that it actually has 5 million. But who are you transferring 3 million to? It's a small investment. It's fine. In two days, 3 million will become 6 million. 300 10,000 will turn into 6 million. 3 million will turn into 6 million. That's awesome. Can I spend it now? Then can I spend it now? I can buy whatever I want. Baby, I love you. Come on, why do you want to buy me a watch? It's not just your watch. I want to change your whole body. I want to change your whole body for you. I don't want you. You are my bodyguard. When you go out, it means that I don't want it. I have to have it. Hello, bring me this black watch. Let's see where this country bumpkin comes from and pretends to be rich. Take this black watch. Thank you for our store's rules. If you don't buy it, you can't try it on. If you like to try it, go out and turn left. There is a discount store. When you go out, turn left. There is a discount store. It's the first time. I heard that when buying a watch, you are not allowed to try it on. There are many things that you have not heard of. Do you know how much this watch costs? Just one diamond on it costs 500,000 yuan . A diamond above costs 500,000 yuan. I'm afraid you won't be able to make that much money in your lifetime. If you still want to buy it, don't waste my time. Get out. If you want to buy it, don't waste my time. Get out. This is your store's attitude toward customers. Are others the customers and you are just passing by to join in the fun? Do n't waste my time. I don't have time to play with you. Don't waste my time. I don't have time to play with you. Madam, why don't you buy it? It's too expensive. This watch is barely worthy of it. Your watch is barely worthy of the occasion you go out in. No matter how low-end it is, it's outrageous. You have a pretty loud tone as a country bumpkin. No wonder I have a sour smell as soon as I enter this store. So you're here, you Why is the ladies model of this watch here? I want the ladies model of this watch. Okay, miss, please wait a moment. Lin Shengnan, I thought you were so chaste. Are you dating Lu Xiao and keeping a pretty boy at the same time? Do you think that if Lu Xiao knew about it, would he still want you? The person Lu Xiao loves is me. No matter how you throw dirty water, he will not believe you. He will not believe you. Even though this top is from Dior, you are wearing it. Why is this collar a little weird? It can't be the one sold online for 9 yuan with free shipping. Don't talk nonsense. Lin Shengnan, you are jealous of Lin Shengnan. It's useless for you to be jealous and slander me. As long as Lu Xiao's mother likes me and I don't like you, you will never get married in this life. Lu family, do n't ever think about marrying into the Lu family. If you have time to worry about me, why don't you worry about how to make your lies come true? Are you afraid that you still don't know my identity? There is another relationship. There is another relationship, that is. Lu Xiao's first love, what did you say? It seems that Lu Xiao didn't tell you, Lin Shengnan. Sure enough, Lu Xiao didn't tell you. That's because he has a guilty conscience. You're going to lose. Miss, your watch has been packed. Miss, your watch has been packed. The total is 1.99 million. Excuse me. Do you want cash or credit card? 1.99 million Dongliang, come here and pay for me. Hey, baby, I'm here. I'm here. Why are you here, too? The girlfriend you are talking about is this Kang Lili. Oh, it hurts so much. Yes, she. From now on, she will be your future sister-in-law. Dongliang, you know her. My third sister, my third sister, is going to reveal her secret. Although the Lu family is rich, Lin Dongliang, a fool, is more willing to lie to me. I don't want to lose this money tree. Dongliang, why didn't you come earlier? She said she is your third sister, Dongliang, why didn't you say she was your third sister earlier? Lily, you don't need to worry about this woman. This woman has long severed ties with our Lin family. Cut ties with us. Why is this woman so vicious-hearted? The old Lin family is so unlucky, Lily, stop telling me what you want to buy, hurry up, swipe 1.99 million, swipe credit card successfully, Miss, your cousin, if you want to marry this Miss Kang, if you want to marry this Miss Kang, she is not simple, she is not simple, you have to keep more. Who are you, Xinyan? I'm telling you, don't mind your own business. I'm fine with Lily. Hey, just talk, don't move your hands, it hurts so much. You tell him to let go, let go, go away, Xiao Ze, let go. How dare you touch me and kill me? If you touch me, I will kill you. Oh, don't hit me. Don't hit me. Don't hit me. I'm wrong. I'm wrong. Lin Dongliang, you are such a loser. Oh, I don't have the same knowledge as him. Oh, I don't have the same knowledge as him. Oh! I don't have the same knowledge as him. Wait until I see him again. Do you think I can beat him? What should I do this time? What should I do this time? I just helped you, but my arm hurt. You don't care about me. Oh, I'm sorry. If you make a mistake, I will transfer another 100,000 yuan to you. How come you only have 30,000 yuan left in your card after a while ? You only have 30,000 yuan left in your card. I just invested some treasure. Don't worry, you will earn back 2,000 yuan soon. By the way, you can't be cheated, can you? Shengzi is my good brother and won't lie to me. But I have invested all my money, so I have to keep an eye on Lin Sheng. I will do it tonight. Go to Liu Jing and find out all the information about Kang Lili and Xue Shixi within two days. Have you collected all the evidence about Xue Shixi's embezzlement of a loan of 3 million ? I will sort it out today. Why do you have time for Lu Xiao today? Call me, what did you say you wanted to break up with me, Lu Xiao, Lu Xiao, Lu Xiao, you come out, why are you here? Get out, I don't welcome you here. Lu Xiao, what do you say when you come out? Let's talk slowly. My son dumped you. You still have the nerve to chase me here. Auntie, Lu Xiao and I must have some misunderstanding. Even if he breaks up with me, he should tell me clearly in person. Auntie, what are you doing? Lin Shengnan, you are already looking for some pretty guy outside. You still have the nerve to come to us? Come to confront me, do you know your sense of shame? What a pretty boy! Xiao Ze is my personal bodyguard. We have nothing to do with you. You are a smelly bumpkin from the countryside. You can afford a bodyguard and get out of here! Our Lu family only recognizes Lily. Daughter-in-law, Lu Xiao, what do you have to say when you come out? Let's talk slowly. Why are you such a shameless woman? You ca n't stop me even if you go up to a pole and look for men. You can't stop me even if you look for men on poles. Why are you looking for me, Lu Xiao? If you have anything to say when you go out with me, let's talk it over slowly. No need to argue. We have broken up. I don't want to hear one more word from you. Lu Xiao, we have been together for three years and you don't believe me at all. Brother Lu Xiao, who are you talking to? Who is talking? Why is she here? She is what you call a pretty girl, right? I see you are a thief and shout to catch the thief. I see you are a thief and shout to catch the thief. Two days ago, I saw her and my brother Lin Dongliang choosing a watch. Lin Shengnan. I didn't expect you to be such a person. Lin Shengnan. I didn't expect you to be such a person. In order to clear yourself, you and Lily are the same person. Lin Shengnan, I don't know you anymore. Lin Shengnan, I don't know you anymore. Do you think of me like this? Shengnan, how can you not value innocence? You are wronged and I am the same person. How can you be wronged and accused of being the same person as you? We are Lily- faced beauties and you are not the same person. Lu Xiao, I want to hear you say it with your own eyes. Is this true ? Do you tell me with your own lips? I've had enough. Do you think there are too many people who have lied to me? Lu Xiao, I've never lied to you. I've only lied to you once. But I've had enough. At this point, you're still lying. You're not welcome in our family. Get out of here. Get out of here. Let me go, get out of here. Let me go. I won't go. Auntie, let me go. Mom, Katsuo, why did you push your aunt to the ground? Katsuo, how did you push your aunt to the ground? Do you want to kill your aunt? I didn't shut up. This vicious woman, get away from me, Lu Xiao, and listen to my explanation. Things are not what you think. I am the chairman of Shengshi Group. She is lying to you. She is full of lies. I will tell you now that we have completely broken up. Don't bother her again. I feel sick when I see you, Lu Xiao, how could you do this to me? Could it be that those three years between us were all fake? Lily, good boy, from now on, you will be the daughter-in-law-to-be of our Lu family. Remember, in front of your father, remember to be in front of you. Say more nice things in front of dad, Auntie, don't worry, Lu Xiao, please accompany me to the class reunion tomorrow. I want to make our relationship official so that I can hurt your man. Why should I keep him? But I have been with him for three years and he has never believed in me. Then you might as well think about whether he did something sorry for you first. I can do it by myself. I can do it by myself. Do n't move. Thank you for today. It's what I should do. Look to see if you're wet too, or else go wash it. I'm fine. You go take a shower. If you catch a cold because of the rain, I'd be embarrassed to deduct your salary. Where is the bathroom? There's a guest room. Hey Liu Jing, go investigate all the whereabouts of Lu Xiao and Kang Lili and all their belongings. Relationship Lu Xiao The three years we have been in love, Lu Xiao, the three years we have been in love, are you pretending? Whose clothes are these? Lu Xiao broke up with me before he could wear them. Lu Xiao broke up with me before he could wear them. Lu Xiao broke up with me before he could wear them. Is it so rare for me? I'm not worried about you looking at me yet. Hey, you look good in this suit. What are you doing? What are you doing? There's something big going on at Third Sister's house. Second Sister, I didn't see it. I've never been here. Don't misunderstand. He's just my personal bodyguard. I know that's it. I know that The Bodyguard and the Female CEO is a story about a bodyguard and a female CEO who have been in love for a long time. Do you want to read something? What kind of books have you read ? You said what happened at home? By the way, something big happened at home. Did your parents get defrauded of all their 15 million? I can't do anything about my parents. You can't help me raising you so big. I'll just take care of the Lin family's affairs. You're an unfilial daughter. Do you want to sever ties with us like your sister? Sister, hurry up and take care of Lin Shengnan's money. Hurry up and ask for it. What are you doing with the money? Let go of my eldest sister, girl, mom, please, girl, mom, please, girl, mom, please, these 1 or 5 million have been deceived by others. Your brother doesn't have a penny. Your brother doesn't have a penny. No, what are you talking about ? What's the use of telling me? Go talk to the police. Third sister, how can you be so cold-blooded? I'm cold-blooded. Who told Kang Lili just now that we don't have a half-cent relationship? We don't have a half-cent relationship now. You're so embarrassed to ask me for money. We are a family. How can we have an overnight feud? It's not like I won't marry Lily just because I don't have money. So what do you want? Give me another 1, 5 million. This 1, 5 million, yes. Come on, it's just a small amount of money. You can make up for it for your brother. Mom, please, Mom, Dongliang, how can you do this? Third sister just gave you 1 or 5 million, and now you come to ask for it. Are you vampires? I should beat you to death. Q Second sister, are you okay? Are you okay? Do you think you are Lin Shengnan? You shouldn't shut your mouth when you talk. Lin Shoucai, Li Ailan, Lin Dongliang, I tell you that I am not your cash cow. I said that last time when I gave you 1,5 million. It's been very clear that I have nothing to do with you. Girl, what you said is so hurtful. What you said is so hurtful. Oh my God, I'm [ __ ] you all the time. I'm [ __ ] you all the time. I'm pulling you. Big, it hurts my heart. What did you do to me before? Why are you not afraid of hurting my heart? Everything that needs to be repaid has been repaid. We have no relationship now. We have no relationship now. Big sister and second sister. Let's go home and stop you unfilial daughter. I won't beat you to death today. Who are you? What does my daughter have to do with you? Let me go. If you dare to touch her, try to be a mother. What's wrong with your daughter? If I do, what can you do? I won't beat you to death today. Old lady, how are you? Old lady, how are you? You dare to hit me. I'm disrespectful. You should beat me. Who dares to touch Lin Shengnan today? You are like a dog. Protect her. You are like You protect her like a dog. Who are you to her? Damn, he is just a pretty boy. Turns out you are a freeloader. Turns out you are a freeloader. Bah, I tell you. Bah, I tell you. If you are sensible, get out of here. It's my housework. It's my business whether you care about her or not. You don't know that I, Lord Ma, have three eyes. Now I will educate you. I will beat you to death. Hey, beat my wife. I fought with you today. I fought with you today. Lin Shengnan, you are so cruel. Look at how badly you hurt your parents. Hurry up and get me 10 million for medical expenses. I won't give you a dime. You can see it too, right? My bodyguards are taking action. My bodyguards are serious. If you continue to act unreasonably, don't blame me for not warning you that you may be beaten to the hospital. You and I can beat you to death right now. I tell you, I tell you. Don't mess around. You don't want to die. Get out of here, Lin Shengnan, you damn girl, you unfilial daughter, just wait for me. I can't spare you. Third sister, this man is really your bodyguard. Third sister, this man is really your bodyguard. Third sister, this man is really your bodyguard. My foster father, give it to me. The pie is pretty good, not bad. It's simply amazing. This is the first time I've seen my parents and younger brother so useless. You're doing well. Third sister, please arrange a bodyguard like this for me and my eldest sister. Second sister, please study hard first and wait. In the future, when you join the company, won't you just pick any good man? Second sister, why don't you always have a good job? Second sister, why don't you always have a good job? That one is just the third sister. I think this man is good. I think this man is good. Not bad. I think this guy is good. You two can give it a try. Sister, what are you talking about? Oh, third sister. Oh, third sister, I know how Dongliang lost his 1 or 5 million. He must have been deceived by Lin Sheng. Ah, okay, I will investigate this matter. Sisters, do you still want to subsidize them? Ever since my parents tried to force me to marry that lame old man, I have disowned them. After all, they are our parents. Then I don't care about him or anyone else. Poke my spine, eldest sister, you have to think about it, eldest sister, you have to think about it. They are a bottomless pit. When will this end? Sister, second sister, please go back first. I have something to do. 1, 5 million. 1, 5 million. It's gone like this. It's gone like this. Are you stupid? You gave so much money to that bastard Lin Sheng. Mom, what's the use of saying this now? If you want to blame, blame Lin Shengnan . If she gave us Qianba every month If she gives us 18 million a month, why should I go to Lin Sheng? Lin Sheng and Xue Shixi have a good relationship. Lin Sheng and Xue Shixi have a good relationship. Why don't I go to Xue Shixi and ask for the money? It's too late, it's too late, Lily said that if she doesn't get the money, she will abort the child in her belly. That 's my son. That's your eldest grandson. Oh, son, that child can't be aborted. You can't abort that child. But my grandson is right, you must not do it. We can't cut off the incense if we fight, but now Lin Shengnan won't give us a penny. Where can I get these millions? Why don't I tell Lily that her third sister is the president of our Shengshi Group? Old man, this is a good idea. Son, you will do it tomorrow. Just take her to your sister's company. She believes it. Yes, that's fine. Just do it like this. Come on, do it one by one, come on, do it one by one. Keep staring at them. Did n't the money you invested last time double to over 20 million? I'm optimistic about this car, it's only over 3 million. I'm optimistic about this car, it's only over 3 million. You buy the car for me first, and then you can go to our house to discuss marriage. What's wrong with you? You're dumb. Lily, this car can't be bought for the time being. I can't buy it. Lin Dongliang, I'm telling you. Lin Dongliang, I'm telling you, if you can't come up with this money today, if you can't come up with this money today, I'll kill you. Remove the child from your belly, do n't, don't, don't worry, I'm not in a hurry. Tell me what happened. I'll tell you the truth. Don't be angry. That 1 or 5 million is nothing. What did you say? It's gone. Lin Dongliang, are you kidding me? Lily. I love you so much. How can I joke about this? How can I joke about this? Lily, I really want to marry you. Lily, I really want to marry you. Although I don't have much money now, my sister is rich. My sister is from Shengshi Group. President, you said your sister is the president of Shengshi Group. You said your sister is the president of Shengshi Group. I didn't lie to you. I bought a watch that day. That's my sister. That's my biological sister. That's my third sister. She is the president of Shengshi Group. She is Lin Dongliang, the president of Shengshi Group, you have to make it decent when you make up lies. You also have to make it up properly. Your whole family comes from the countryside. You lied to me and said that your sister is the president of a listed group. I really didn't lie to you. Shut up. I've had enough, Lin Dongliang, tell you, don't let me see you again. You've wasted so much of my time. Wait, don't pester me. Li'er, can you give me back that 1 million first? Lin Dongliang, you're still not a man. Spend it. I still want to ask for money, but I don't have it. Lily, that 1 million is my end. If you want to break up with me, you have to give it to me. Touch me again. Try it. Lily, can you pay me back 500,000 first? Let go. Stop pestering me. If you don't give me money today, I definitely can't let you go. Let me go. What are you doing? Lu Xiao. Save me. He's pestering me. [ __ ], let her go. My brother actually likes this woman so much. Lu Xiao, thank you for coming. Don't worry. He doesn't dare to do anything to you when I'm here. Who are you? I want you to mind your own business. She's my girlfriend. My girlfriend's business is my business. She's your girlfriend. She's obviously my girlfriend. Lu Xiao, don't listen to him. He is slandering me because he is pursuing me. He only came here when I refused. Kang Lili, who has been pestering me, don't talk nonsense. Lu Xiao, if you see that he is a brat, get out of here. Otherwise, I will beat you to death right now. I don't believe you. Tell us clearly. It's better not to get entangled with this kind of person and leave quickly. Hey, the owner of this car gave me this car. Lin Shengnan is so angry because of you . Are you worried about Lu Xiao? Are you angry with me for the past three years? My feelings are gone. The dog gave him a few meat bones and he left with her. Do you want to consider feeding Mr. Lin? He discovered that Xue Shixi not only had a large transfer with Lin Sheng, but also bought a ticket to go abroad tonight. Xue Shixi is indeed him, yes. What did you just say ? I'm fine. Where are we going now? Xue Shixi's rental house. Let's go. Does Xue Shixi's family live here? Does Xue Shixi's family live here? The address given by his father is correct. Shixi, open the door. No, what's the matter with you? I found this place, come on, come on, come on, come on, I have something urgent to come to you. I have something urgent to come to you. How about we find it here? Come on, let us go inside. I am too busy today to greet you. I am too busy today to greet you. Hello, I'm too busy today to greet you, okay? I'll talk to you next time if you have something to do. We really have an emergency. You must help me find Lin Sheng. You must help me find Lin Sheng. I don't know where he is. Get out of here. Why don't you come and bother me? If you say you fell out, you won't recognize me. You say you fell out and you won't recognize me. Anyway, you were also my uncle before, right? You were also my uncle before, right? Anyway, you were also my uncle before, right? You guys have the nerve to mention this to me? When I got divorced, I didn't get a penny. Get out of here, listen to me, get out of here, listen to me, that thing is in the past, that thing is in the past. It's all over. Now hurry up and tell me Lin Sheng's address. Tell me Lin Sheng's address. Let me tell you. He lied to my son for 1,5 million. He lied to my son for 1,5 million. He lied to me. He lied to my son of 1, 5 million. He lied to my son to 1, 5 million. What does it have to do with me? What does it have to do with me? No, then you can't say that when you say this, right? Uncle, I beg you, please help me. Just tell me Lin Sheng's address and contact information. I will ask my girl to remarry you. I told you that Ru Nan is different from Sheng Nan. I told you that Ru Nan is different from Sheng Nan. It's different. I'm telling you that she listened to me. I'll tell you one last time. Get out of here. Ouch, you're still trying to get into trouble. Where did the old woman fall? Old man, this is our money. Old man, this is our money. Well, you Xue Shixi. You Xue Shixi, how dare you team up with Lin Sheng and the two of you to defraud my son of money? Get out! This is my money. This is my money. This is my money. You all get out of here. Give me back my cell phone. Feed Xue Shixi, what are you doing? Why haven't you come to the airport yet? Why haven't you come to the airport yet? Let me tell you. I estimate Lin Dongliang. I estimate Lin Dongliang already knows that we are a partnership. We already know that we are a partnership and defrauded him of 1, 5 million. If you don't run now, you won't be able to run away in the future. Okay, you little brat, you and Lin Sheng teamed up to defraud our family. That's my money. It's my money. Our money. My money. Get out of here. Get out of here! Come on, do you want to die? You, do you want to die? Just stand still. You two old guys are really not afraid of death. Don't blame me. Don't beat me. Just blame you. Now that you know the truth, stop, girl, hurry up and save you. Dad, Liu Jing calls 120. Xue Shixi, do you think you and Lin Sheng can still get away with these things you did? Lin Shengnan, you are a bad man and good deeds. If you do too much injustice, you will die. The law is restored. The two of you are waiting for the rest of your life to be in prison. Come on, Lin Sheng is arrested. The French Open is fine. Lin Shengnan, are you the one who put your parents in the hospital? Your brain is worthy of Lin Sheng and Xue Shixi's ability to defraud you of 1 or 5 million. You dare to laugh at me. You have such strength. Why do n't you think about it? Let the parents who love you and raise you live in the hospital for 8,000 a day. There is also a 900,000 surgery fee. What surgery fee is 900,000? Then you get the money. Are you the guardian of the patient Li Ailan? I am her son and mother. My mother's cancer has reached the mid-term stage. She needs to arrange surgery as soon as possible, otherwise the patient will not survive for half a year. The patient will not survive for half a year. What kind of cancer is it? Sister Lin won the first place in the jewelry design competition. The elder sister won the first place in the jewelry design competition. Sister Lin won the first place in the jewelry design competition. The first one successfully entered the Shengshi Group. Sister, I liked this kind of beautiful jewelry when I was a child. I didn't expect the design to be so good. I didn't expect the design to be so good. It has great potential. What about the second sister? The second sister studied economics and management and just received a sum of 5 million yesterday. It's really good to be able to get such a large number of orders when she just started learning. She has a bright future. You can take good care of her in the future and let her show off her talents. Mr. Lin has one more thing to do. Tomorrow is your inauguration banquet. Your dress is ready at the hotel. The one we customized for you is the Sovereign Hotel. The one we customized for you is the Sovereign Hotel's high-end VIP banquet hall. As expected of Lu Xiao, he invited us to the Sovereign Hotel. Come to the hotel for a class reunion. This is the most luxurious hotel in Nancheng, right? Hey, it is said that a dish here costs tens of thousands. I have never tasted such an expensive dish. It's nothing. I come here often. The taste is pretty good. Lu Xiao, let's go in. Let's go. Lu Xiao heard that you have recently had a cooperation project with our largest Shengshi Group in Nancheng. This is all thanks to Lily. Lili's identity is exposed in front of so many people. Will it be revealed? Lily is actually Kang Shengshi of Shengshi Group. You are really the daughter of Kang Shengshi. Oh my God, Lily, we have been classmates for so many years. You haven't revealed anything at all. It's too secretive. But how come I heard that Kang Shengshi has no children? That's what my father did to protect me. It makes sense to prevent it from being revealed because of safety. You see, Kang Shengshi, Kang Lili, has the right surname. He must be from the right family. Wang Qiang, look at you. You almost got wronged. I'll punish myself with a drink. Lily, look at my mouth. I'll punish myself with a drink. Ah, it's okay. By the way, Lu Xiao, where is your girlfriend? By the way, Lu Xiao, where is your girlfriend? Every time we have a party, she calls you and tells you to go home early. Don't mention the points. I'm fine with the points. I think the score is good. Then Lin Shengnan is a country bumpkin. Lin Shengnan is a country bumpkin. Lin Shengnan is a country bumpkin. How can she be worthy of you? What's wrong with the country bumpkin? She is so beautiful and devoted to Lu Xiao. How can she be willing to break up? She doesn't want to break up, but I have no feelings for her anymore, isn't she? She's so mean. Just make a phone call and you'll find out. Lu Xiao, I also want to know if Lin Shengnan has lingering feelings for you. Okay, then let's give it a try, everyone. Find Kang Shengshi. Thank you. Thank you for everyone gathering at the grand gathering. After the grand gathering, Kang's Group has been completely handed over to my daughter Lin Shengnan for management. Everyone has a great time. Have a great time. Foster father, you are so high-profile, so you are not afraid that some people will be dissatisfied. Father, you are so high-profile, so you are not afraid that some people will be dissatisfied. Father, if you are so high-profile, you are not afraid of dissatisfaction. Foster father, if you are so high-profile, you are not afraid of dissatisfaction. Who dares to be dissatisfied with me? Kang Shengshi's daughter is the successor of Shengshi Group that I have identified. She is the successor of Shengshi Group that I have identified. Who dares to go against you? I'm going to bankrupt him every minute. I'm going to bankrupt him every minute. Hey Shengnan. I'm not feeling well right now. It's none of my business if you're not feeling well. We've already broken up. It was my fault. I betrayed you. It's me who betrayed you. You , I betrayed you. I feel really uncomfortable right now. Katsuo, where are you now? I'm at the Grand Hotel 748. I'm at the Grand Hotel 748. Okay, wait for me. What happened? I see you look bad. Foster father, I have some personal matters to deal with. I'll be back in a while. Just take Xiao Ze and I'll go by myself. Don't follow me. Lu Xiao, Lu Xiao, wake up. Do you want me to take you to the hospital? How's it going? Lu Xiao, Lu Xiao. Hello, 120. Right to the hotel. Here Lu Xiao, it turns out that this country bumpkin is really such a mean person and he still comes to be a [ __ ] after we broke up. We were just joking with you. I didn't expect you to still care so much about me. Lu Xiao, this is Lu Xiao. You were lying down just now. Didn't you see that she was worried? I'm almost crying with worry. Shengnan, you are dressed so beautifully today. Is it to seduce Lu Xiao? Is it to seduce Lu Xiao and try to make him change his mind? Maybe 100 yuan from the second-hand market can buy 3 pairs of trousers. Fang, don't say that. Maybe her outfit only costs 99 yuan. Yes, yes, yes, 99 and free shipping. Okay, Shengnan, you can go. Lu Xiao, you called me here today just to humiliate me, right? Lin Shengnan was just playing for fun. Why do you have to be so serious? Lin Shengnan, why don't you stay and eat with us? Even if this matter is over, you should eat it by yourselves. Lin Shengnan, what are you talking about? I see that you spent three years. I see that you spent three years. I spent 3 years training Lu Xiao well, so why don't you treat me to a meal because you don't know what to do ? Good waiter, lady, what do you want to order? This, this, and this. And then give me this French snail, abalone, and this champagne. 10 portions. Everyone has a great time drinking today. Order whatever you want, Lily. But Kang Shengshi's daughter is worth hundreds of billions and this little thing is not even enough for her daily pocket money. You can order whatever you want. The most expensive wine and the most expensive wine in your store. All the dishes were served to me. Okay, okay. Fortunately, I still have the 1 million given by Lin Dongliang here, which should be enough to pay the bill. Lin Shengnan, just treat this meal as my thank you for bringing the best Lu Xiao to me. It should be returned to the trash. I'll throw him to you. Isn't that good ? Lin Shengnan, what do you mean? What do you mean? Trash matches trash. Shengnan, I know you feel unbalanced after breaking up with Lu Xiao, but Lu Xiao's status is extraordinary now. You You don't know yet, Kang Lili is Kang Shengshi's daughter. Now that they are together, they are a perfect match. Kang Lili, Kang Shengshi's daughter, you are so interesting. You are with my brother, and you are with Lu Xiao, and now you are out together. You are so shameless for pretending to be Kang Shengshi's daughter. Why are you cheating and slandering me by pretending to be Lin Shengnan? I know you are jealous because your status is low and you are not worthy of me. What can you do? Yes, you have a high status. Since you are Kang Shengshi's daughter, what can you do? You should know that today is the inauguration banquet of the CEO of Shengshi Group. Inauguration banquet. Yes, yes. I seem to have heard that there is an inauguration banquet today. I didn't expect it to be at Junhao. Lily, can you introduce us to us? Can you introduce us to us? We also want to meet your father. We also want to meet your father. It would be better if you could go to work at Shengshi Group. You are the daughter of Kang Shengshi. You are not willing to help with such a small favor. Of course not, but my father also said that he I don't want to disclose my identity, not to mention the company's newly appointed president, let alone the company's new president who is an outsider. I even had a conflict with my dad over this matter. Oh, so that's it. Lin Shengnan, you are too jealous. Fortunately, I listen. My mother told me to break up with you quickly. Fortunately, I listened to my mother's words and broke up with you quickly. I'm jealous, so that's what I should do to Lin Shengnan. Are you crazy? Lu Xiao, I can see you clearly today. You are such a scumbag. You are not worthy of my liking. Lin Shengnan, you kicked me in the nose. Are you so shameless? Do you still have the nerve to [ __ ] me? Why are you Lu Xiao again? How about you? Is it okay? Are you wronged? Who is that person? You brat, I asked you to get out of this room today. Lu Xiao, Lu Xiao, are you okay? Lu Xiao, stop, who are you? Get out of my box, Kang Lili, didn't you say you are Kang Shengshi's daughter? Why are you even your own father? I don't know you. Why don't you even know your own father? Why don't you even know your own father? Why don't you even know your own father? You are Kang Shengshi's adoptive father. He said she is your biological daughter's adopted father. Is there such a thing as saying that she is your biological daughter? You are so shameless. You bullied my daughter and stole her boyfriend Lily. What's going on? Do I need to say anything about my situation? Lin Shengnan is Kang Shengshi's daughter. Lily, you have been lying to me. No, I really came to give me a slap. How could it be like this? It's impossible. Mr. Kang, Lin Shengnan, is really your daughter. Mr. Kang, Lin Shengnan, is really your daughter. Yes, Shengnan. She is my adopted daughter, but she is even more my daughter and the successor of Shengshi Group, Lu Xiao, right? I now declare that Shengshi Group and your Lu family will never cooperate with Sheng Nan . I know I was wrong. I beg you to forgive me. It doesn't matter. It was this [ __ ] who lied to me. It was this [ __ ] who lied to me. How could you get out like this? I don't want to see you anymore. Get away. I don't want to see you anymore. I deserve to die. I deserve to die. That's enough. Lu Xiao, why do you think I will forgive you? Because you love me and you can't bear to leave me. Don't lie to yourself. It's hard to find a man with two legs. Is it hard to find a man with two legs? Lu Xiao, I tell you that we have broken up and you will never hire a foster father. You young people go there. Let's go on a date. I'll take care of this place. Miss, where are you going now? Do n't talk and follow me. You tell me first what you just meant. That's what it means. You provoked me first. So what if I provoke you? You're not afraid of me. What am I afraid of you? Are you afraid that you will break your fingers? Xiao Ze, I have a love relationship and want to talk to you about it. What do you think? But about my status and status, I have everything you mentioned. But the people under you can gossip. Well, I will give you a job tomorrow. My status It 's not as simple as you see. It's still not possible. Xiao Ze. From today on, you will be my Lin Shengnan's man. Who dares to bully you? I'm not done with him. I never cause trouble, but I'm never afraid of trouble. Xiao Ze, it's your turn now. What do you think? I swear to always protect the eldest lady, she will always be yours