I've spoken about special relativity for with that subject matter here too. The last handful have focused on relativity different observers, but there's another that confuses the heck out of people. This is the idea that different people see I mean, how can that possibly be? I bet you know that I was going to tell you, Before I start, I should tell you that this Sorry about that. But it has something even more important. It first uses relativity wrong, but in a way Then I identify the mistake and redo things This is a super important thing to see, because The good thing is that the math is pretty We just start out with the standard Lorentz As a reminder, those are the equations you If you've not seen them before, I talked is all about. Take a look at that video if you like, or Remember what these two equations mean. We have two observers looking at a situation. For one of them, the situation isn't moving. For the other one, the situation is moving. Typically, we say the person seeing the situation moving person is the primed observer. So in this situation, all we want to do is Now this just doesn't sound all that hard. I mean, like, there's a stick. And I measure how long it is. And there you go. I mean how hard is this? Like, am I wasting your time or something? Well, I hope not. Because you have some experience measuring But you've probably never measured the length of the speed of light- have you? Well, no, of course not. Sorry- dumb question. But now let's be a little careful about The way you actually do this is to find the the other end of the stick and then subtract Suppose you had a meter stick and you labeled 1 and put the other at location 2, which we'll X-one could be at position zero. Then x-two would be at 1 meter. Subtract the two and you find that the meter Now, you could have picked other locations. X-one could have been 98.3 meters, which means you subtract those, again, you get 1 meter. Yeah, yeah, I know. All of that was painfully obvious but trust So let's just ask ourselves what a moving And, to do that, we're going to exploit I'll tell you what. Let's make it more interesting and not use an unknown length that we'll call L. Let's you is one who sees the stick as not moving- zero. Suppose further that she puts one end of the Then, rather obviously, the other end of the this in terms of x's and t's, we would L-zero. So let's put those into the Lorentz transform sees. For location 1, you get the same zero-zero, L and t-two equals gamma v over c-squared Pushing ahead, you could then subtract the and you'd get that the length according gamma L. Since gamma is greater than 1, that see a longer length than the stationary one. But! Before you get that in your head, let me draw Look at t-1-prime and t-2-prime. T-1-prime is zero and t-2-prime is gamma v Remember that those are times. And they're not the same. That means that the primed observer didn't at the same time. And, since the stick is moving according to to measure its length. You'd totally not get the right answer. It just- it doesn't make sense. Okay- so now we get to the very crux of the First- and this is a biggy- two events that the one who doesn't see the stick move- That just sounds weird, but it's true. It's also a big reason why people dallying So, the second thing is that if we want to observer- the one seeing the stick move- we of both ends of the stick according to the There are lots of ways to do this, but I think Let's start by just subtracting the two observer. The length L-prime is just x-2-prime minus t-2-prime minus t-1-prime. We can write that out using the Lorentz transforms It's just the Lorentz equations but with Okay- maybe this is getting a little mathematical, So, remember what we need to do. We need to have the primed observer find the And that means that t-2-prime equals t-1-prime, bottom equation is zero. We want to get rid of the times and only have and get this here. And we can take this and put it in the top So, we can factor out the gamma and x-2 minus Now remember that gamma is one over the square c squared. That means that one minus v squared over c So, we can substitute that in and get this And finally, we can cancel the gammas and And that brings us to the answer. We replace the differences for both the primed and what we find is that the length of the the unprimed frame, divided by gamma. Since gamma is greater or equal to one, this to the stick sees a shorter stick than one And, using the fact that both observers can that a moving stick is shorter than a stationary Now, there's one important thing to remember in the direction of motion. There is no shrinking side to side. This means if you start with a basketball look like a pancake- still round in the direction to the direction of motion. And this is real. We see it when we do experiments smashing colliders. I made a video about the quark gluon plasma It also means something really pretty weird. Suppose you had a barn that was 20 feet long on both ends. If you got the stick moving at a little over This means that the stick would be 20 feet That means that it is possible to- for a split long barn and close the doors. Bizarre, eh? That might sound like a paradox. I mean, after all a person who was sitting shrunk. But remember that two observers don't agree So, while one would say that the barn doors There is no question that this weird effect But people often have misconceptions about Many people accept that the stick might shrink, But that's the wrong way to think about After all, when I did the derivation, the All that mattered was the x and t positions Take the stick away and you still have x's So this length contraction, which has been really does mix space and time. What one person sees as space, the other might I only there were someone who could communicate understandable way and could make a video If there only was such a person... Okay- so that's length contraction. People in relative motion will disagree on That's weird, but, you know, that's relativity You're probably amazed. So now you know what you have to do. Like the video, comment if you want, and subscribe And, of course, remember that physics is everything.