Can you literally punch your way out of a prison? And what happens when two people are handcuffed All these questions will be answered, and more, head-scratching. In 2012, perhaps history's most The guys doing the escaping had done With painstaking perseverance, they'd dug a had taken the men quite some time, but then one One of the guys was Rafael Valadao, weighed around It should be noted, he wasn't exactly with a much smaller man going first. Behind due to Valadao's size, he got stuck, When prison officers arrived on the scene, fall down laughing. Valadao had apparently and this, it seems, was amusing to the officers. extracting him told the media, "The other stuck in the wall. He started screaming in pain, A local cop explained, "He seemed to have It seems that the smaller guy that's what the reports said at the time. 19. County Jail in Tennessee, USA, cooked up a plan That was to take another prisoner's ID, a prisoner name was called, he would simply pass himself The guy doing the escaping was named Kenneth 7 inches (170 cm). The guy whose ID Using this other ID, and getting as far as was almost out of the door when a prison officer That was the fact that Burnum didn't look Taylor was in fact an African American male and his height was closer to When officers asked Burnum why he'd thought he different skin color his reply was that was "being dumb." We can't disagree with that. twice as embarrassing. In 2016, the media reported that replicating his own version of the escape We don't know his name, but thanks to a video He had believed that if he took out the toilet the sewer pipes, but unfortunately, all he and a bunch of guards pulling him back out. certainly isn't. As you might have seen in the movies if you are you'll need to do is ventilate the place or That's what happened in 2018 to a 25-year old Monte Cristo penitentiary in northern Brazil. This months digging a tunnel during the nights and He managed to dig an impressive and reached all the way to the outside. It seems one night he had been digging but as fast as he could back to his cell. He Prison authorities said Evangelista, a convicted walls and under electrified fences and only had his death. An investigation showed that the plan other prisoners for the use of his tunnel. 16. some of you feel a bit sorry for these people but you also have to remember some of That was the case with a US On January 15, 2020, she and an accomplice were 85-year old man. They followed him home and when They proceeded to fire off some bullets and At gunpoint, they took him to an ATM, and him to draw out a load of money. After talking a him in the trunk and left him at a waste facility. been able to find an emergency release switch the police long to find Boomershine, not the cell at the police station she thought she In short, the roof collapsed on taking her pants down at the same time. If landed right in a garbage can. Later in court, the 15. as one of Australia's most notorious convicts. His What makes his escape stupid is what he did he was being visited in prison after getting of heroin into Australia. On that particular plus a fake mustache and beard. He proceeded This was a job well done and an embarrassment Savvas would have kept his it seems he still wanted to eat at and this was a well-known criminal whose He was halfway through his steak when police too. He was sent back to prison, where just a was foiled. This one had been planned with one It seems the prison had guessed these guys had as well as undercover agents to foil officers, get over the wall, and drive away in with the authorities saying, "They were prepared Just hours after that plot was discovered Savvas was found dead in his cell. escapes gone wrong, it is this next one. The prison was the notorious This place started off as a penal colony where they survived the long journey across the those who had committed an offense With that in mind, you can imagine that The authorities said it was impossible you can bet they'd suffer some It was a horror prison, and that's why it This brings us to a Scotsman named George "Billy" at Port Arthur for the offence of "stealing the Edinburgh news in wrote 2018, "Other willfully and diabolically interfering with We don't know much more about Billy Hunt, but only way possible, which was through a mass he needed a disguise since the place was So, Hunt killed a kangaroo and got inside the the Neck. That's pretty clever, but let's just next. It seems the guards saw this kangaroo, they got their guns ready to shoot it. Hunt saw A report stated, Hunt was "dressed as a only to be shot at by rationed soldiers, who Hunt was charged with "absconding" and given is if you're going to escape inside a dead animal, With this next one, it's also not so much the 13. in Brazil who was serving 73 years behind bars for With that kind of sentence, a person can get when he was visited by his 19-year old father not just a wig, or a fake beard, but she handed him a quite advanced-looking Silva was immediately transformed into a teenage very believable The guards didn't fall for So yes, we think he was pretty stupid but it's even worse when you consider how fact there was no backup plan for his daughter. her father get out of prison, of course. She the prison authorities later saying nine people Now let's talk about one of the a man that did everything right 12. It's hard to call him stupid since he but it's what he did after his last escape if he got caught, he was going to be executed. while stealing a tomato, and that landed him he was placed in an isolation block in a special using small soup bowls, apparently somehow Sometime after he got out, he was in a not knowing who Shiratori was, offered and smokes were seen as a luxury in Japan. This much that he told the cop who he was. Bad move. of Sapporo expecting to be told when he was going The court ruled that he'd killed that farmer in He still served another 14 years, that killed him, not the justice system. was going through the prisoner's mind. Carlos Garcia, a convicted murderer, was doing He decided it was time to go, and so got to work razor blade attached to a popsicle stick. manage to cut through most of the window, and some more popsicle sticks to make it look Then one night in 2012, he pushed out the fake stories. Now, he was almost a free man, but he changed his mind and climbed back One of the prison officers told the media, we've never had an incident like that." what kind of vehicle you'd like to have if 10. In 2019, a 44-year-old prisoner named Curtis Ray after a brutal breakout in Tennessee. and was serving a 15-year sentence for beating again during his breakout years later when he He was eventually caught and given a life what's so strange in this story is what vehicle which you have to admit wasn't the best choice. also a downside to running during an escape even would chugging down the road in a tractor. In 2011, a prisoner named James Edward state penitentiary where he'd been These were not serious offenses, and it seems that that served as a minimum-security work camp. and off he went, running apparently Media reports say he got as far as but as he approached some houses in the woods, That was the fact that he was still We have no idea what was going through his one of the doors and ask to use the phone, and hopefully the owner of the house wouldn't He was then about as surprised as the person prison officer who was more than familiar with through the woods but was eventually If you thought that one was funny, this is going 8. Let's imagine Scooby-doo and Shaggy were convicts they're the nice guys. But still, if they were Maybe, something like them being trying to run in the opposite direction. hey? Well, something similarly silly did The year was 2009 and two male prisoners named at the Hastings District Court in New Zealand. they realized that there was a chance to run. The it turned out, running away in tandem is as hard Like a FAIL from hell, these two geniuses ran on explained how they managed to do this, saying, spray. But they got up and ran out of the court That's where they met the pole - it was all over." but a New Zealand TV news show still called it The next escape attempt is 7. Carlos Pereira and 24-year old Sidney da Cruz escape attempts of all time at the Delegacia The two waited until lunchtime was over How those bags were tied from the outside a prison officer could have been in on the escape. that the bags seemed to be "breathing." He later was a rat, but on closer inspection I could So, that was indeed a rubbish but this next one would have been great had the 6. Michael J. Norwood at the Snake River Correctional right. He could have had a movie made about him This guy made one of the best prison He used his own hair for the dummy, and he It wasn't just a head, either. He made the entire Norwood, who was 41 at the time and in prison masterpiece. An investigation showed he'd also which he intended to throw over the prison fence. a kind of hook that would keep the rope in place. 3. That's where he intended to stay out lying in his bed with a pair of headphones escape plan. Why are we calling it stupid? hadn't planned how he'd get to the fence, he'd get away through the open fields. No So, he just waited there, and then through some what the hell are you doing, get back inside Norwood later freely admitted that he hadn't He was charged $132 for the six library and he also got 180 days in solitary. made it up, but we can assure you it happened. This bizarre escape attempt happened in 2016 A prisoner named Alexander Scaramastro was in the officers and into a waiting car. Inside that car said they heard Scaramastro shout, "Go, go, go!" officer named Jim Allardyce got in the way. injuries. What happened next is confusing. Ramos where he screamed that a bunch of men had just could get the cops to arrest the parole officers, When the police officers went out to the surrounded by some very angry parole officers. and discovered that Scaramastro was trying to he had no idea about Scaramastro's plan and he'd steal the car. Then Scaramastro snitched which proved they'd both planned the escape. and you can bet that Ramos cursed This next might win the award for the 4. a man named Christopher Boscacci tried Correctional Facility in Milpitas, He was somewhere outside in the minimum and then shimmied his way to the but two, going so fast he left his It all came to an end when he fell, and when officers who'd been told about this spiderman-like on CCTV. 25-year old Boscacci was taken and was later charged with the felony Ok, so what's so stupid about this? The answer is this guy was in jail for and he was due to be released in two or three We guess he must have had a very good reason Let this next one be a lesson to all through one day without telling strangers 3. Crego found himself in a typical alcohol-sodden Another drunk guy said those familiar words, effect, and Crego, not one to waste an opportunity took the guy up on the challenge. It with the other guy taking one That ended with Crego in handcuffs in the back serious physical injury to the man. The damage to Crego also got charged with possession He eventually pleaded guilty to the crime of he didn't show up. He was due to but it seems he thought the justice system had Crego later said, "All I did was slap him." headed to Indiana. He might have stayed about his whereabouts on MySpace pages and then got an extradition warrant. later stating, "Getting a Governor's Warrant getting the death penalty over a speeding ticket." quite common to catch criminals by using think if it's not public the posts are safe Crego eventually got out in 2011, admitting that He's since been called the "Facebook Fugitive." attempt of all time. There's nothing fancy here, the impossible. The star of this story is Hector Luis Campos, he would have done anything to get out It was about four in the morning when the night but at first, they had no idea where it was coming and then start again. They wondered if They then followed protocol and but it seemed that nothing was out of place. so, the officers agreed the banging must have been What the hell, thought the officers. One of them from the cells which housed inmates who'd been eye on each of the TV screens that showed the noticed in one particular cell, their view was The officers went down to check sitting down on his bed with a very bloody, very discovered that some of the bricks around the door toilet bowl, they found bits of paint and mortar. his way out of prison, a futile task if ever "His hand is very sore right now." as we always do, and we are sure you will admit 1. you might have stumbled across a rather outrageous attempts to free inmate from British jail." a small island that is about five miles There are about 140,000 people living on kind of place you associate too much you would assume that the jails This is what a couple of daring guys must and started threatening staff with what appeared and the other was dressed like that lovable Their ages were given as 43 and 21. The reports was Charlie and the younger dude, Snoopy. day you see a giant cartoon dog going on the These guys started threatening the staff, throwing to beat down the prison door. They were That officer said, "They but it was taken seriously because they appeared and it was only later they were found So, we have a cartoon dog and his best pal armed get any more comical? The answer is yes. That's one called the Albany site and the other called guy they wanted to bust out was at Camp Hill. involved, the two men were related to the close together, but this has got to rank as We won't disagree. It seems the British and instead of arresting the men both detained under the UK's Mental Health Now you need to watch "50 Things Nobody Tells