Among the inhabitants of Casasimarro, a municipality in the province of Cuenca, the trade of guitar maker has been practiced since 1755. Although there are several active workshops, the family of Vicente Carrillo Casas is one of the protagonists of this art. After eight generations of guitar makers, Vicente continues with the tradition and the family trade. We are going to build a classical guitar, you are going to see that the guitar construction process is very slow, more than anything because it does not have any tips, it is all glued. The guitar begins with the selection of the woods, we are going to make a guitar from Indian rosewood and the essential wood is spruce pine for the top, Indian rosewood for the side and back set, Cameroon stick fingerboard and cedar from Brazil. To select the wood, both for the bottom and the top, its hardness and resistance must be taken into account. The grain line must be uniform and cut perpendicular to the palm of the wood. With a template, Vicente delimits the shape of the guitar, trying to avoid imperfections and knots, so that it is as clean as possible. Now what we are going to do is work on the top of the guitar, marking the silhouette and if there is something that we do not want to come out, then leave it out. It is time to glue the two halves of the lid, protecting it with wood and small pieces of paper. The lid must be fastened with an interlacing of zigzag strings that will guarantee the perfect union of the wood. Wedges are inserted between the strings that will increase the pressure required for gluing. Just after finishing the lid, the same process is carried out with the bottom woods. Glue drying will last overnight. The only difference with the lid gluing process is that a fillet is inserted into the joint at the bottom , where the two halves are joined. The entire contour of the instrument will be filleted over it . We take the ring out of the water, we see which is the inner part and we mark where the silhouette of the guitar is going to go , and now we start with the heat, very slowly, very soft, to take shape. For the texture of the side rings to be adequate, the wood needs to go through a sanding phase in which the guitar maker polishes the surface. As tools Vicente uses a blade and sandpaper of different grain thickness. After the rolling process, the luthier continues gluing the stock, which is the piece that joins the two rings at the widest part of the instrument. For optimal support, press with two pieces of wood and a jack. Once the glue is dry, you have to remove the wedges that hold the caps to cut out the silhouette and start calibrating the wood. As we have done with the lid, we do with the bottom, we remove the rope and mark the entire contour and then cut it with the saw. And now what we do is cut it, leaving a small margin of approximately half a centimeter to be able to have a little security when working on it as well. When the cover is already trimmed, it must be roughened with a carpenter's brush, a blade and several sandpaper in favor of the grain of the wood so that no splinters are removed. It is being stabbed and the thickness of the wood is checked with the gauge. You can see the thickness it has and it is passed until the wood is ready as it is. The caliber of the wood is very important, since each area of the guitar has specific measurements that are different from each other. It is the luthier himself who determines what those measurements are going to be , so important for sound quality. The lid is already calibrated as it has to go, it has been given sandpaper and now what you are going to do is look for the center of the lid, the axis of the lid and mark where the center of the rosette will go . The rosette is a decorative complement to the soundhole of the guitar that was formerly made by hand. Today models with a manufactured rosette are still being made, although it is common to find the piece ready to glue. Of course, always with the personal design that identifies each luthier. We must also look for the rosette drawing to come to the center, to the axis of the lid. To give the guitar more sound, some reinforcements are glued , both on the soundhole and on the bridge, and the ribs and harmonic bars are inserted . These bars reinforce the high and low sounds produced by the guitar. Its placement is one of the determinants of whether the guitar is classical, flamenco or studio. This is the neck, it is cut diagonally, the headstock is inverted and what remains is the shape of the headstock of the guitar. Now on the neck we are going to make a small hole with a milling cutter, where we are going to put the ebony rod to adjust it well and prevent the neck from bending. Another part that is built with ebony is the fingerboard, sitting on the neck, but we will have to wait until the guitar is complete to leave it with its final measurements. It's time to shape the headstock; First it is cut out of the wooden head and later it will be decorated with metal plates and its 6 corresponding pegs. The socket is a piece of wood located at the back of the neck whose main function is to join the plates that form the two side rings of the guitar. The top is glued to the neck so that the central axis of both coincides at all times. The thickness of the two parts is adapted so that there is no unevenness and the piece is homogeneous and compact. To ensure their union, some staples are placed between the neck and the top that the guitar maker will have to remove later. We already have the rings taken to the mold, with the handle, the lid on the hearth, on the template and now what we are going to do is join the ring with the lid. The ring is joined with the lid by means of small wooden angles called zoquetillos or pawns. There is usually an average of 110 to 120 pieces per guitar. One by one, the sockets are glued following the contour of the instrument. We are going to make what the bridge of the guitar is, it is usually also made of Indian rosewood, and the bridge is what holds one end of the strings in the top, the other is held in the pegbox, it is a process that is all by machine, it can be done by hand but it is very laborious. The bridge has a plate that is usually of fine marquetry or bone, usually of veal, decorated with a trim. In the past, more precious materials were used, such as ivory. Now, since we have the earring measured, we are going to make some small windows that serve to hold the bottom, so that it does not sink inside. And that's it. Finish. Once the earrings and the bottom ribs have been glued in their respective windows, Vicente gives the rule to the guitar expression used by guitar makers and that consists of checking with a rule that the 5 key points of the guitar skeleton are at the same level . After propping up the ribs, the guitar maker holds the back, tops and neck tightly with some wires. It will be necessary to join it at a good pace but safely, because once it dries it can not be rectified. The soleras, or templates of the guitar, are manufactured keeping in mind that the angles of inclination of the guitar are correct. The zero and 12 frets and the bridge of the guitar allow you to check if the angulation is correct. This process requires great precision, although if it does not exceed half a millimeter of variation it can be modified on the excess wood of the fingerboard. Now what we are going to do is edging, filing the entire guitar with these woods, they are wood veneers that we have glued to other woods and that we have molded with the folding machine. After marking with the router and delimiting the gap of the fillet. The wooden plates are glued and snapped into place. In addition to decorating the instrument, the fillets delimit the pieces into which the guitar body is divided. So that everything is very firm, the guitar is tied, either with a hemp string or with a rubber band. To finish off the process and that there is no irregularity on the surface of the guitar, Vicente removes the staples that he used to join the top to the neck. The second outer seal of the instrument, after the rosette, is the crown located on the head of the guitar. Each luthier has his own design that he captures in the wooden silhouette, to later cut it out with a band saw. After perfecting the edges with sandpaper, it is adjusted to the fingerboard, using the bone that separates them as an indicative stop. The ebony fingerboard is attached to the guitar once the head is contoured. In order for it to be well attached to the wood, Vicente will have to scratch both pieces of wood before gluing. It is already glued and I like to leave it at least one night so that tomorrow we can continue working, the neck is a very delicate part, it is a piece that carries a lot of tension and must be well glued, with its time. Once the head and fingerboard are finished, the final shape is given to the neck of the guitar. For the curved parts, Vicente uses as a reference the piece of wood that was removed from the hollow of the mouth. All that remains is to go over the neck with sandpaper, clean the fingerboard, make the cuts and place the frets. To mark the frets you have to consider the throw, or string length of the guitar. In general, the 650 guitar is usually classical, 655 and 660 is usually flamenco. The 640 guitar is usually smaller, it is made for Japan for example this type of guitar is made a lot, much in proportion to the rest of the world. Vicente makes some cuts along the fingerboard where he inlays the frets, which are normally made of a brass or nickel silver rod . The luthier trims the ends adjusting their measurement to the width of the neck. The frets indicate where the finger should be placed on the string for one note or another to sound. Before varnishing the guitar, the guitar maker places the bridge. So that the surface of both the cover and the bridge sticks well to the spider caps with an awl and gives them glue. When it comes to varnishing, Vicente prefers to do it with a spray gun and in very thin layers. It uses a semi-synthetic lacquer , which gives the lid the necessary elasticity to produce a good vibration. For special orders Vicente uses the traditional method, and replaces the semi-synthetic with shellac, also known as French varnish. Each coat needs one night to dry. The varnishing will be complete when the pore of the wood is completely covered. The headstock is made up of metal plates that are usually gold or silver in color, and which can have nuances of mother-of-pearl, silver and gold depending on the instrument. In the past, both pegs and pegbox were made of wood. According to Vicente, the sound was much better, but the precision in tuning was less. Its aesthetic function is essential since it brings great elegance to the entire instrument. The final touch comes with the bridge bone and the nut bone, which the guitar maker places after the guitar is varnished. Vicente takes the measurements to lower the bone and make it consistent with the height of the strings. After this, go deeper into the marks that will maintain the distance between the strings and round the edges of the bone edges. Vicente signs his new work as the end point of a long but very satisfactory process. It only remains to put the strings, tune them, and check that the sound quality of the instrument corresponds to the expectations of its creator. Now when we put the last string, what we do is tune it, check that there are no vibrations, the string that supports the bones well, if there is any vibration, correct it With the tuning fork, we look for the note A, which is the fifth string and on that string it begins to tune. And the guitar with this is already finished. Hello, my name is Juan Rodriguez and I am going to play a taranta with a guitar by the maestro Vicente Carrillo. The long history of the Casasimarro guitar makers and the quality of the instruments made there reaches its maximum expression in the interpretation of the great guitarists, both classical and flamenco. Artists like Paco de Lucia have attested to the professionalism and good results of the work of these great artisans.