As most of you are aware, I have been debunking point I am familiar with just about everything the most sophisticated and well-funded propaganda worth my time to create an in-depth series point, which others can use as a handy resource. creationists, this series will focus on purpose of the series is not to expose the viewer with the ability to immediately may find this useful if you are going to debate your family and you're tired of their misinformed if you need a handy guide to combatting Now before diving in, we should quickly note that us define and organize them, in order from most have scriptural literalist flat earth geocentric and pretend that Earth is a little terrarium made bible passages like Psalms 93:1 which says references the four corners of the Earth, and dome over the Earth. They believe the Earth is whose forms are precisely as their god created Next up are your standard Young Earth the previous category but they don't believe the directly from scripture, namely that everything around 6000 years ago. They sometimes make of geology and other sciences to justify Next is Gap creationism. This puts a time so as to propose that the initial creation of there were the six days of creation to produce the more scientific because it allows for an older so they typically don't dispute certain Day Age creationism is similar but proposes literal days but periods of unknown length, This again is an effort to make creationism Next is progressive creation, which posits over time. This is an attempt to explain the thereby accepting that many forms trace a clear but that divine intervention is responsible processes. So it accepts aspects of biology and geology, while denying most of Next there is intelligent design. it is a political movement spearheaded by the Institute that arose due to a backlash towards Intelligent design is a rebranding campaign avoiding negative connotations of shifty preachers they tend to be the most accepting of select common descent, and many other concepts that are nevertheless remain firmly pseudoscientific when claiming that naturalistic principles are variety of living organisms. I have an entire this organization should you find yourself wanting Wrapping up there is theistic evolution, which is but maintains that a deity sporadically intervenes there is deistic evolution, which essentially the fundamental characteristics and physical and then played no further part, thereby explanations for the origin and diversity of life. essentially the entire body of scientific whatsoever, with the singular uniting thread intent for our existence. Positing the general that can't be firmly proven or disproven in make no attempt to do so. Instead, we will be principles that creationists deny to one degree will apply more broadly to all categories, as there are things which that ideology denies But we will attempt to go over virtually and how to expose the dishonesty behind them. according to the following topics. This will allow of the history of the universe, the emergence of arrival of humans. It will also allow us to stay so that we are not constantly jumping from one preachers tend to do. So let's start things spanning from the beginning of the universe up Chronologically speaking, first we can discuss understanding, science does not have any ability a highly successful model that describes initial singularity. It does not describe how that if that is even a question that means anything. So that something came from nothing is totally universe is not understood by science, so this and we will return to it in part five to describe But once again, taking the initial singularity the universe is very much within the domain of Let's examine the most ridiculous arguments cosmology and astrophysics. Many creationists deny it, and deliberately misrepresent it. Young a kablooey graphic with fully-formed planets be preposterous. Of course this has nothing to do possible, out of the initial singularity emerged a plasma of quarks and leptons, which over and neutrons. From unthinkably high temperatures after the initial singularity there was a where it was cool enough for protons and neutrons just like they do inside stars, and that's nuclei formed. A few hundred thousand years to couple with electrons, allowing neutral atoms into gas clouds by gravitational influence all the for millions of years. When enough hydrogen the immense gravitational pressure triggers stars and galaxies first formed. The most massive producing heavier elements. When they died in the heavier elements, and spewed this material formed other stars, this time with diverse form along with stars in protoplanetary disks. ten billion years after the big bang, and our That was an incredibly abbreviated the field of astrophysics, so please visit my would like much more detail on these processes they tend to not have even heard any of the above cosmology are typically ridiculous. They will say everything should be moving in the same so how are certain things moving towards each is it that Venus exhibits retrograde rotation, planets? One need only specify that, apart our system formed ten billion years after the and that in general stars didn't form for about Earthers are always saturated in incredulity, about these phenomena. In such cases you can try and some may even be willing to learn, but most that they are making an argument from incredulity, they understand how their iPhone works? No. Is make it clear that astronomy is perhaps the most look through telescopes and see what's going on we can observe star formation in various understanding of stellar dynamics and where to analyze the composition of stars, and to the vacuum of space. Encourage them to visit their and to ask questions that the employees will which says a lot about the willful nature of Pivoting from incredulity regarding more intelligent creationists will bring up what to the physical parameters of the universe support Young Earth creationism, but could at least at face value. The universe has a values pertaining to fundamental characteristics totally different values. These would include on the electron, the ratio of the mass of the magnitude of the strong nuclear force, the the cosmological constant that determines the rate It is often said by creationists that if any values by even a few percent, that life would be even atom formation would be impossible. The values such that all of these things can arise, is because a creator ordained them to be so. put forward immediately. First, we have no way of any arbitrary value, or even any value other than constrained than we can currently explain, or time period in some kind of superposition of subsequently coming to dominate for one reason or of values that permit life are often overblown by magnitude or more, not the fraction of a percent argument. It should also be stated that some other to completely unimaginable structures, which led wouldn't have looked anything like us, as it would exist in our universe. Furthermore, without it is impossible to know how many of these be that there is only one such constant that all coincidentally allowing for life is much more also seems a bit strange that a universe so finely as far as we are aware, take over ten billion so as to be undetectable from our vantage among an endless universe of emptiness sparsely life. If the purpose of the universe was Other explanations have also been put forward, meaning many universes, each having a different trillions upon trillions of planets, with sentient planet happens to be able to harbor life, there life only around to ponder the parameters of life. This is known as the anthropic principle. permit observation, as nobody is in the universes that is the case. However, the notion of many with no empirical basis, so it is not the best it to say that it is an interesting thing to think deity, but even our universe as a programmed superior non-deities. As deistic evolution is by it is not important to dwell upon, so points that specifically contradict science. cosmology, some creationists will learn basic they can refute scientific methods for determining that the accepted value of 13.787 billion years a mountain of empirical evidence from multiple measuring the expansion of the universe through distance. Sources of visible light that are moving waves get bunched up, while those moving away from stretched out, just like how an ambulance will while approaching you and then pitched down once the greater the red shift, which tells us how was emitted, and this data can be plotted to reciprocal of the Hubble constant will give Then there is the ratio of hydrogen to 3 to 1. That there is so much helium indicates protons and neutrons, which is explained by model. No other model can account for this cannot account for this precise ratio that is nucleosynthesis epoch as demanded by the model. radiation, something which was specifically subsequently observed. This is a perfect which is a remnant of the recombination epoch, and relaxed to the ground state, emitting photons for the first time. This occurred 380,000 years stretched out by the expansion of the universe meaning the same in every direction. This isotropy thermal equilibrium, something which only makes which had predicted and estimated prior to its detection. These lines of the universe's age as understood today. because they like how it superficially described by the verse "let there be light". all of this because if they accept the findings long astronomical time spans and specific sequence worldview of a six-day creation, so they look Creationist claims regarding problems with big what we can or should observe. For example, the III stars, which were predominately short-lived, population II and then in turn population I stars. or the proportion of elements other than hydrogen something like: where are all the population III the model proposes that they are predominately be detectable in galaxies that are so far away a time when population III stars were still around recent observational evidence for population it's simply very difficult to collect such data the most sophisticated space-based telescopes. timeline of cosmic evolution and pretend we should seeing, and then wonder why we aren't seeing them. concepts but exclaim that explosions out of the big bang, which again, was not an explosion not offer any explanation for the cause of the the universe beginning around a trillionth of the initial singularity. So once again, all from nothing" are completely misguided. Big anything coming from nothing, or how the initial model describing the development of the universe. things are within the universe as it is today, can measure the parallax angle of a relatively as Earth orbits the sun. We can use cepheid in a reliable way, so we can determine distance what we refer to as standard candles, since they so vibrant that we can see them clearly even in often millions of light years, so for they must have existed for at least that many will say things like the speed of light must have make up for the large distances. This is of course basis but also in direct violation of special Some may instead claim that the star or galaxy transit to us. Whenever creationists use such ad and pressed to admit that it is not Continuing on to planetary science, we can make accepted value of 4.54 billion years plus or minus namely radiometric dating of zircon crystals technique relies on the instability of certain decay, whereby they emit a high energy particle be unstable for specific reasons. Some have a large nuclei become unstable because the strong protons fused together drops off with distance them, so nuclei above a certain size tend to decay in order to get smaller. Uranium is one such heavy where it decays into lead very slowly. By can determine the age of a meteorite, which Furthermore this can be done with two different while uranium-238 decays into lead-207, so respective values is a great way to corroborate of the rock. These can also be cross-checked to neodymium or rubidium to strontium. For including one of dozens of other radioactive Creationist responses to such data are typically that decay rates have changed over time. This is inherent stability of nuclides which have external environmental conditions. Nuclides as they do under any set of external stimuli. none of the daughter nuclide being present in chains make this assumption for obvious reasons. into argon-40, and argon is a noble gas. Noble are monoatomic. Apart from xenon, they do not impossible that argon would have been incorporated rock at the time of formation. It must have the rock formed, where it was then trapped. form of radiometric dating, and since such ten half lives, carbon dating should only be given that carbon-14 has a half life of which is why we only use carbon dating within They are oblivious to the fact that, once again, with wildly different half lives, including for the age of the Earth or other very old can be used to determine the age of the Earth, and why would they think that it was? Some of nuclides when those half-lives are millions over literally any time span, whether an hour to determine the half life. Decay is happening because the number of atoms in any macroscopic we simply measure the disintegration rate For younger objects, instead of radiometric rhythmic sediment deposits, as well as ice biological features with a reliable cyclical in conjunction with radiometric dating as a techniques agree on an age, it corroborates the of getting precisely the same erroneous date Then when it comes to the age of the Earth it is absolutely trivial to demonstrate that the archeological site we have discovered is Gobekli and there are even trees that are currently alive beliefs regarding the age of the Earth are based from the bible to set the creation of the Earth as the antithesis of proper scientific methodology. events does not compete with the rigor of predictions that are vindicated to high is simply not coming from a place of reason. of geological features, we get to stratigraphy creationists fixate on relentlessly because it so their claims. The bulk of what needs to be said so we will return to this in part three where we the standpoint of geology as well. To begin, our a bit in the 19th century. We began to understand essentially how all of these geological structures was a huge turning point in large numbers since creationists would have us all believe very rapidly after an enormous global flood. is not possible. If sediments could be packed sediments would be scarce, they'd just all be form these structures would be ridiculous, this is not something that is physically flooding does not produce any such structures. we can also discuss the problem of where all the is not a thing that exists. Even if the polar ice near covering all the continents completely with and waters from above, which is totally baseless flat earthers. Some talk about "fountains of the which is too hot for liquid water to exist. plate tectonics, which would have South America and which would produce temperatures upwards of cooled to ambient temperature by now. Beyond all evidence whatsoever for a global flood at any problem for anyone who believes the bible is is known to not have happened. Some creationists the global flood but rather poke holes in what volcanic features that form very rapidly, not volcanic activity is mechanistically totally rock. They are different types of rock that timelines are immaculately well-understood, as But in general, creationists have no ability to with geology. Take something like the Green which records the sedimentation in a group of 20 million varves, which again are thin layers layers of fine light and then finer dark sediment, the summer when there was stream run-off and the in modern freshwater lakes. This therefore took global flood would have you believe that this days through some kind of alternating turbidity doing some simple math, would amount to physical impossibility on any scale, let alone span. This feature requires geologic time to are countless other geological features, like raindrop prints, chalk layers like the White more that are absolutely inexplicable by some getting redundant, we can just broadly state that the idea of a global flood having produced all the zero working geologists who are Young Earth who is a flat earther, which also does not exist. part three when discussing the fossil record. For geology and planetary science. Creationists evidence for a young Earth. They will say that rate, around 5% per century, it can't be more short-sighted, as any geologist can tell you over geologic time, and the poles sometimes even in fact. It is precisely this phenomenon that by observing magnetic striping in newly formed mid-ocean ridges. This misrepresentation and that is to identify a temporally local Earth's magnetic field is generated by iron and align in certain ways as Earth rotates. It is to grow periodically stronger or weaker, and also as the magnetic poles are in constant motion. which contain particles that are magnetized magnetic poles, such that we can easily determine over geologic time, which clearly has not in strength and direction. Creationists make no do creationists extrapolate 150 years or so of they flat out ignore all data preceding the the model for planetary magnetic field generation do not have magnetic fields, such as Venus, which and Mars, which does not have a liquid core. A similar case can be laid out about creationist the moon is receding from the Earth very slowly due to the tidal bulge on the Earth that the to slow down slightly, and this loss of angular and moving farther away. This has been happening day on Earth has been getting longer for that ago, a day was only 18 hours and 41 minutes. again extrapolate erroneously, and calculate that have been touching Earth, so neither the moon this is a gravitational phenomenon, and the their masses and the distance between them. That as the gravitational influence changes as the moon evidence regarding periodicity of the tides, which about half the current rate around 650 million billion years ago. That the recession was slower given the stronger attraction, so there is no for the age of the Earth and moon. it is important to note the hypocrisy of like current rates of nuclear decay can't be but then proceed to make such assumptions field strength and rate of lunar recession when science. At any rate, that wraps things up with and planetary science. Let's move forward In part one of this series, we examined regarding cosmology and planetary science. With of the Earth covered, let's now dig into the to as abiogenesis, meaning life arising from with this event not just because it contradicts relationship with their deity, but also because it technical level. This makes it easy to confuse to emotion. Life comes from life. Everybody knows go over some concepts in physics and chemistry The first thing we must do is try to understand produced. When creationists scoff at the idea they are always misrepresenting the product of modern animals, which of course is multicellular life form. Obviously the first some creationists will look at something like a as yeasts are eukaryotic, and therefore that produced far more complex unicellular prior. Some will go further and examine extant but this is still totally inaccurate. While than even unicellular eukaryotes, they are still and are dramatically more complex than the first like flagella, cell walls, simple organelles, and from the first life to extant bacteria is to a human being, or perhaps even greater. we can refer to as a protocell. It would have been we attribute to life, meaning that it performs there are enzymes which are capable of promoting material, or information storage system, which not DNA. RNA and DNA are both nucleic acids, but the most important of which is that it tends to Because of this openness, RNA is capable which opens up the possibility of RNA acting strands would have been the first self-replicating which we will get to a bit later. The point is it may have needed another class and it must have had some kind of membrane to There are two facets to explaining how this purely chemical domain, where we must figure out That would mean amino acids, which are the and then ribonucleotides, which polymerize and then mechanisms by which they polymerize, or formed there would have been an incredibly complex mechanism in order to produce a narrowed-down which complexified over time to eventually what is studied by the field of systems chemistry. let's knock out a few creationist straw men that in order to substantiate abiogenesis as a lab. This is preposterous for many reasons. whether or not life ever produced sentience to general. The validity of the process was the we don't need to physically recreate something an enormous amount of knowledge regarding the need to build a star in a laboratory in order and most importantly, creationists presume involved some molecules floating together and case. We can't just stick some molecules together nature also did not do that, so the request has sets of molecules exhibiting autocatalytic long time spans to gradually produce a system the instant that such a system could be labelled arbitrary to define. There is a gradient called systems and living organisms, and the boundary not a binary system like heads and tails. Beyond in the related but separate field of synthetic from scratch, they would simply remark that only therefore god created life. It's a lose-lose we will return to this concept of autocatalysis Offshoots of this line of thinking include the will say that life arising by chance is like junk heap and assemble a 747. As dumb as this science illiterate preachers all the way up to the choice of comparing life to a manmade object objects are known to have human designers. Of how we chose to assemble them according to our nature. Second, this notion of simply sticking has very little to do with what science proposes. gradual can't be compared to a singular event. man-made objects is inherently deceptive. The therefore everthing complex must have been made by at nature. Snowflakes are geometrically highly art and architecture. However, they form by purely equally appropriate analogy would be to say that therefore everything complex forms naturally. This designed. In the end, complexity and design just clear if we accept that complexity is not the not have thousands of buttons, some of which same thing as others, and some of which don't designed to be simple and intuitive to use. The does not plan anything. It tries everything and blueprint, no function is predetermined, it relies exclusively on mutation and selection. but let's introduce a relevant key concept now. selection works in the laboratory. Say you need an need 100% yield and 100% specificity, performed will screen some number of known enzymes, anywhere match are infinitesimally low. But finding one are quite high. Perhaps the screening yields one yield and 5% specificity. You take that enzyme hundreds of mutants, one offers 10% yield and 20% 15 rounds of this, you have your perfect enzyme. mutation and selection. This process is sped up over larger time frames in nature, as certain of certain systems of molecules being better at aspect of abiogenesis that creationists are unable organic chemistry. Nature works with complex like those used by laboratory chemists. It makes allowing certain sequences to dominate over time. They are not perfect machines. Organisms to redesign from scratch, problems are fixed with genes are retained. Signaling pathways are so an engineering standpoint. A living organism is a blind forces improving upon existing templates, Going back to current origin of life research, we first need to get the components of life. At ribonucleotides, and polypeptides, which are made these small building blocks, amino acids. These synthesize, in fact, that they form in the vacuum since it works much better in a confined like an aqueous solution. Neverthless, atoms and and form larger molecules, including amino acids, that land on Earth. Probes that land on asteroids such as uracil, one of the building blocks of RNA. these molecules on a prebiotic Earth. The famous molecules like methane and ammonia, introduced a of this is that it is no problem to get amino acids were abundant on a prebiotic Earth. To speak this is referenced excessively by both danger for science advocates is to pretend that really did not. It produced the most simple and achievement, but is not even remotely comparable careful to not present this experiment as more because it is discussed so much, creationists make that only a few amino acids were produced. This glassware used in the experiment detected over ones, as such techniques were limited at the experiment has been recreated countless complain about the conditions of the experiment, essentially referring to the presence or absence a prebiotic atmosphere with no photosynthesizing criticism, as the prebiotic earth was host to variety of oxidizing or reducing potentialities, the experiment is typically done under reductive utilizing different combinations of gases always including nucleobases, another essential building and sugars also have well-understood synthetic called the formose reaction. The smallest would have been in abundance on a prebiotic Earth. smallest molecules to the monomers that must which have three components. There is a large number of synthetic chemists focus and over the past few decades enormous numbers substantiated for each of these components specifics of these pathways go beyond the scope a mountain of primary scientific literature some of which will be linked below. they must polymerize to form RNA and polypeptides. that have been firmly substantiated. The first tidal pools and hot springs, there are natural which result in sequential polymerization a chain lengthens. Once wet again there is some growing chain within solution. Over many cycles, observed in nature. Additionally, very interesting It is known that nucleotides can polymerize on of inorganic chemistry that are also beyond the for decades, and offers another pathway for collections of these polymers can get trapped in within which interesting interactions can occur. Let's mention some creationist talking points First, they will claim that any laboratory They will pretend to take issue with aspects claiming the reagents were unavailable on a the manipulations of the flask would not have done in any lab does not count. This is highly molecules do. If they do something in a flask, it They will do the same chemistry anywhere. When it isn't unique to a laboratory setting. It's the particular pressure, anywhere in the universe. can't force molecules to do things in a lab that Furthermore, experiments tend to test one thing at being investigated, so tangential processes not relevant to the research question. to distract from the point of an experiment. setup. If any type of machinery is used, they as there are certain geochemical or geophysical simulated in the lab. The setup is specifically do this with certain aspects of experimental or washing mineral surfaces with peroxides and gas is done to prevent the reaction vessel from oxygen that was not there on the prebiotic Earth. to kill and remove biological contaminants, such on a prebiotic Earth. This type of protocol makes Origin of life researchers are not stupid, nor for specific reasons, all of which are totally first thing about running chemical reactions. chemistry that are done exclusively for the happened. When chemists isolate and purify their using spectroscopic techniques that allow them and whether it is what they expected. We can't our eyeballs. We need specialized instruments, Nature doesn't have to do that, as nature happening. It makes things and just keeps going. the concept of "time of the gaps", the notion all the relevant chemistry will occur. This is their clear god of the gaps argumentation, but part. The claim is that molecules degrade very they become impossible because reactants will cartoonishly exaggerate or misrepresent these or through sleight of hand, extrapolating certain conditions to an entire peptide under effect that mineral supports offer, diminishing of course the most egregious oversight is that it establishes an equilibrium between monomers and emerge for different polymers, thus enacting a form more quickly, or degrade more slowly, are factors which result in particular sequences Going back now to our vesicles full of their interactions. Certain RNA molecules have do chemistry. We call these ribozymes. Some and polypeptides in turn can also have catalytic and other functions. With both RNA and peptides of possibilities emerges. It is important to note function to exist. It is not only 200-mers, that can do chemistry. Even di- and tripeptides catalytic function sufficient for self-replication picture materializes of suites of molecules allowing all the functions of life to slowly for energy production, which can in turn fuel is done in autocatalytic fashion, where RNA or even sets of RNA molecules that form evolutionary principles truly take hold, as the most rapidly and efficiently will proliferate in a the landscape. This is almost indistinguishable as sporadic errors in replication result in beneficial, and the best sequences are selected, It should be stressed that this concept is have been demonstrsted in the laboratory, with substrates in Darwinian fashion, compounds which and the ones which did this the most efficiently complete protocells have not been produced in a challenge. But efforts in this direction are which we won't describe in further detail, but I description for those who wish to read further. of objections, some of which are no more than researchers are perfectly aware of, while others there is skepticism about the probability of these ones that are capable of catalysis, specifically raise, as we should want to know what proportion and the same goes for polypeptides. As it turns this question, and the answer is around 1 in but in the molecular world it's not as rare as one A glass of water contains around a trillion 24th power. Compare that to 100 billion, or 10 to is stark. Biopolymers are not water molecules microenvironment where it is mechanistically forming, the number of sequences that will form astronomical number of opportunities for something a near certainty. Whether a functionally relevant day or once per year, nature had a long time to self-replication is occurring, that information long enough to exert that function. This concept biology, because similar arguments are put forward much more familiar biological systems, so we will The next topic that creationists beat to death second law of thermodynamics and entropy. Entropy, matter and energy in a system. So if molecules be a low entropy system, and if molecules a high entropy system. Regarding the second law of law forbids order from forming spontaneously, falsehood at every opportunity. Obviously ordered molecules freeze to form beautifully patterned molecules spontaneously aggregate to form formation of the first vesicle membranes from Localized ordered structures are not just possible this law actually says is that the entropy of process. Spontaneity is determined by the represented by delta G. This in turn is which essentially can be thought of as heat change in entropy, delta S, and also temperature, The first problem lies in pretending that this law the Earth itself. These are both nonequilibrium both energy and matter with their surroundings. like water molecules forming ice, the new called hydrogen bonds, cause the system of molecules goes to a lower energy, and this energy a dispersal of energy and therefore an increase has decreased locally, as the water molecules they have released energy, so delta H is negative, making the process spontaneous with respect to the the release of energy means an increase in also known as the universe. The local decrease entropy for the universe that is ordained by the polymerization and aggregation of molecules as So creationists who say that thermodynamics ordered systems have absolutely no clue what they To go even further, plenty of studies have been systems which are receiving a constant efflux sunlight, will inevitably produce ordered gradients of free energy, so as to move away from thereby producing an increase in entropy for the such nonequilibrium systems, in precise opposition specifically drives the formation of locally to living organisms. It can't be made more clear thermodynamics which leads to an increase in enough time and resources are available. make has to do with the concept of information. is self-replicating contains and transmits information, whether it is functional or not. The strand, which will be some combination of A, U, by virtue of their letters, the same can be said matters most is functional information, which achieving a particular function. Creationists information come from? Some will even refer to it to be specified by a creator, since it yields pretend that information is some kind of essence other than the sequence itself, and which must polymerize, some sequence will result. That's the information, so the process of nucleotide It is the process of selection, based which makes this information meaningful. So comes from" does not understand what Lastly, a newer trend is for creationists pertains to biomolecules. Carbon-based molecules or handedness, in that they have mirror because of the way carbon can make four bonds with a simple molecule and its mirror image, which we identical, but the atoms are distributed for biology is that molecules exhibit bioactivity that both amino acids and ribonucleotides that are of two possibilities. That is to say, biological important question becomes: How did this chirality systems? The creationist approach is to simply explanations for how this occurred. When small both forms, and then these crystals can sublime, phase. The rates of sublimation can differ with a specific enantiomer collecting somewhere manner in which enantioenrichment can occur. induce the preferential cocrystallization of Looking instead at the polymerization phase, if the rate of reaction for one enantiomer might be and thus enantioenriched polymers. This if the rates of polymerization differ according look to a later phase with replication, where again. This has been verified experimentally. than heterochiral systems. A similar objection is on the sugar moiety as well as carbon three. is a much better replicator than C2 prime. C2 prime linkage can be present in a ribozyme these objections, the key concept that In summary, creationists offer the poorest takes everything they attempt to discuss, simply esoteric aspect of the science that offends them. the complexity of extant life with what must have which its constituent parts can have formed, is of evolution, because of how complicated these abbreviated version of what we know regarding the profound short-sightedness with which creationists numerous resources in the description if you wish create an extended series about this research, explanations regarding all of the facets we have literature produced by thousands of researchers, let's move forward to part three, where we will So far in this series, we have discussed planetary science, and abiogenesis. This brings is evolving and thriving, much to the distaste change over time to produce different types creationists misrepresent it? This is going as it is truly the crux of the issue To kick things off, let's highlight the the most stereotypical, and the most flawlessly evolutionary processes: If we come from monkeys, uttered that could more immaculately demonstrate field of biology, so let's use this as a starting First, evolution does not propose that individual creationists pretend evolution suggests that a fins or legs and just morph into some other Pokemon. Evolution also does not suggest that different type of organism, especially from organism. It does not say that an iguana should like that. No type of animal alive today begat and modern monkeys are not ancestral to humans. over enormous time spans and thousands or even organisms, according to evolutionary lineages that This change is not sudden, it's a gradient. Look is one species and red is another species. pixel is practically indistinguishable from the eventually produces different colors. The precise and perhaps even somewhat arbitrary, but also organisms survive. We label different species diverge and isolate and further differentiate. A tiny branch of the phylogenetic tree of life. categorize living organisms. Nature does not care Even more preposterous than creationists who think completely different individual organism, like a who think that transitional species should like the famous crocoduck proposed by two clueless be one species above the waist and another as one of the most idiotic notions ever conceived. made of one blue square and one red square. It's even that is not a flawless analogy, because we evolves it does not have specific forms in mind. we can indeed see the intermediary aspects of to legs when tetrapods evolved, or from legs such transitional structures are impossible The fossil record clearly shows their existence, extant life. Just take a look at any walking a fish that walks. This is a real thing that organism that creationists are totally oblivious evolution of tetrapods looked exactly like morphologies that allow for some swimming and possible, since here they are, for all to see. creationists don't understand the notion that most do they have an understanding of the full scope To them, the animal kingdom is precisely as it is bears, elephants, giraffes, about a dozen others, be suggesting that one of these animals either these animals. This is genuinely what they are evolution to them. In reality, species that are of the tree of life. Humans did not "come from a relatively recent common ancestor. We share a is even more recent, as we are more similar to with all other mammals that is more distant. more distant still. All fish, more distant still. distant still. And all living organisms on Earth, the last universal common ancestor. Bacteria, are all related if we go all the way back to this process look like in the forward direction? diverged, developing different metabolic respiration. Endosymbiotic events later occurred others, developing a mutual benefit and and this is where the kingdoms of life diverge. other eukaryotes developed into animals, and so the animal kingdom as a whole, basal animals on the tree of life, which over the past 800 sponges to all the animals we can see today, which the species that have existed over time. This is and the primary evidence of this is the fossil every year since the study of paleontology stepwise morphological change, gradually leading With this understood, we can knock out a bunch of humans did not come from monkeys. Homo sapiens, other Homo species, and Australopithecines before at the common ancestor of humans and other ago. That's right, humans are apes. The common around 25 to 30 million years ago. Biological an incredible number of specimens outlining this other lineage on the tree. So expecting evolution some other branch is totally nonsensical. Nature some set plan with certain goals in mind. Nature nor would the exact same thing occur today given some evolutionary lineage from the past doesn't particularly as those more basal species monkeys producing humans, it never happened in the hilarious. Beyond the absurdity of thinking that of humans, it's the idea of evolution being organism of a species up to the next level of some In reality, small changes occur within populations creating two different branches It should be noted that when creationists are a moment ago, you can point them to modern steps. Endosymbiosis is not merely hypothetical, engulfed a bacterial cell with the capability of an organelle of the larger cell, which we call has also been observed, with a unicellular observation. These processes are not speculative, all these lineages is instead corroborated by the While different types of creationists have creationists reject the entire concept of common more or less precisely as they are, and they huge ark by Noah to survive a global flood, after we see today. This notion is so profoundly absurd as we mentioned, the perception of the animal not merely a few dozen animal species. It's not it. There are millions of animal species, perhaps would be present on the ark would require it to be in modern times. And that's just to physically Then what would happen? What would they eat? The the biomass of the animals, requiring the ark especially if we want to actually separate the Some creationists try to solve this problem by the time of the flood. So instead of thousands and the diversity of beetles we see today same would go for the variety of feline species, ocelots and jaguars and housecats all diverged And the same for mice and rats and hamsters ridiculous than the idea of millions of species in gradual evolution over millions of years, but a few hundred years? Many of these animals were to be almost instantaneous. So creationists adopt of the process they are specifically denying in Regardless of which version one adopts, there flood is over. How did the two penguins get all to Australia? How did all of the animals get of themselves anywhere else? What about all the yet they're everywhere. What about freshwater as their habitats mixed with salty ocean species do not have enough genetic diversity to that work? Both for animals and for humans, who not once but twice. And the list goes on. issues is typically magic. How did all the their habitats after the flood? Magic. How did ark? Magic. How were their progeny not cripplingly it is acceptable to propose magic as a solution to to remind creationists at every opportunity Let's now pivot to paleontology and the fossil evidence that substantiates everything we are life are immaculately supported by the millions which can be accurately dated to specific time thus elucidating the forms which have existed in change. Of course the fossil record is relatively rare occurrence. We will never have existed. But if we are doing a very large jigsaw is without every single last puzzle piece. the preserved remains of an organism or some kind soil, or amber, that is over 10,000 if preserving a large animal, or they can be very these are rare is that dead organisms tend to occurs during relatively uncommon events. The so it might become buried by the sea floor, or body does decay, but bodily particles get replaced teeth, or shells. Once the organism is gone, its so we can gather highly detailed information most common type of fossilization and it works can also occur, like insects getting trapped in the remains of soft-bodied organisms that don't which unlike the body fossils we just described, include things like footprints or burrows. to learn about what kinds of living organisms animals in the middle of a desert tells us there numerous methods of dating fossils, including electron spin resonance, thermoluminescence, the dates that we assign to fossilized remains. of course. First, they pretend fossilization are so slow. This is ironic, considering the they pretend are possible for the generation nevertheless, as slow as sediment deposition Rivers can flood suddenly. Tidal waves can occur. that can rapidly bury organisms. These are not a of years, there are plenty of opportunities for Additionally, there are even slow methods of but there are swampy anoxic regions where bacteria be slowly preserved as they are buried by sediment for deoxygenated ocean basins, where decaying Then of course the biggest problem is that the extent of the fossil record. Way back in with. That's why he explicitly stated that whether paleontological evidence of transitional we have plenty to work with. The number staggering. To present an exhaustive list of series of videos unto itself, so we will not do species" is enough to keep one occupied for important ones to illustrate precisely why these Look at Ambulocetus. This is an early amphibious so this is along the lineage that produced modern is immaculate. It was able to walk on land roughly otter, using its limbs as well as undulation for but it may have had webbed feet. This is where to modern whales. And of course there are many ending with whales that we could look at, such as This is quite different from Ambulocetus, being fully aquatic. But we still see the intermediate We should make one thing clear at this point. In species. There are no evolutionary dead is always changing. Some organisms fit so if that environment changes very little, then such as with sharks. Shark diversity has grown but there are certain sharks today which are very for the most part, change is always occurring. extinct species present on lineages that produced what paleontologists refer to as stem groups and recent common ancestor of all the currently living stem group includes exclusively extinct species do not share all the features of the crown group. one day be extinct, and they may at that point perspective of scientists in that time. It is not forms that are somehow the goal of evolution, and from one perfect form to another. It's just today. Ambulocetus is not inherently inferior to extinctions, and one day whales will go extinct understand how it is related to other mammals, that the closest living relatives of whales are of whales. It means that hippos and whales share common ancestor of both hippos and whales with that led to hippos and whales would show us an and distinct populations of this species produced over tens of millions of years. This is one of the and need to be taught with clarity. number of tactics. First, they will simply deny do this in a dishonest way by discussing the time that the fossil record posed a huge challenge not see sufficient transitional species. And this not by a longshot. For those who dare to no matter what types of specimens are collected, being truly transitional. They will pretend that of what exists today. This means they will insist land mammals and whales, no matter how ignorant the organism. Similarly, all hominid remains are all Homo species, they're all either a chimp or a is with the specimens, which very clearly display characteristics, like longer arms, and some doesn't matter that every single biological the absurdity of this claim, creationists will In this particular realm of hominid evolution, up all the time, so let's go through them the first substantial specimen ever found of complete, and allowed us to prove that these apes characteristics pertaining to the skull, pelvis, this is the only Australopithecine specimen, many of which are far more intact than Lucy. But she was a chimp in order to discredit hominid baboon bone found in the specimen, so it's just was determined that one of the bones belonged beyond that. One of the bones did not belong to to a baboon. That's the end of the story. This was the name given to a putative hominid By 1922 it was realized by the scientific extinct peccary species, which had been severely This was a misidentification made by a singular was not definitive proof of a hominid, but somehow invalidates all the hundreds of They will also bring up the Piltdown man. This was were presented by an amateur archeologist as accepted for a while in Britain, but debunked just community. Creationists again use this singular biological anthropology, neglecting to acknowledge exposed by the scientific community itself. make a fuss over nothing to deflect from an because we have firmly substantiated dozens of most recent common ancestor with other apes, person in the anthropological community who just chimps or people, due to the undeniable Another thing creationists do is they fixate is for two reasons. First, they know, just as never be 100% complete. It is not likely and it is even less likely that we would find prevent us from filling in the fossil record descent consistent beyond reasonable doubt, just other reason they do this is to use numbers in A and B, and the transition between them is a Then we find organism C, which immaculately fits A and B. But what's this! Now there are two gaps. we find organisms D and E to fill those two gaps. worse and worse. Of course this is preposterous, evolutionary lineage, and in the limit of hundreds become smaller and smaller, such that to doubt becomes more and more unreasonable. But the game they play. An example is the transition discovered way back in 1861, and presented as a birds. This was not enough for creationists, which forms have been found more clearly outlining this The gradual change in morphology that can be seen an ostrich for long enough, the resemblance obvious. The real difference is the feathers, in a manner similar to scales, as they are mutation that can occur in certain chickens that on their legs and feet, which makes them look of the regulatory genes Spry2 and b-catenin structures that resemble avian long feather it is to explain these types of changes, like we will discuss genetics in the next installment. it presents enormous problems for creationists that these specimens were deposited rapidly things get absurd very quickly. Of course these so they were all alive at the same time, died same time. The idea that all of these organisms becomes a statistical impossibility. trilobites are present exclusively in the deepest layers and no others. Hominid remains are in the is present in a narrow range of strata, which change from basal forms to modern forms. to explain the distribution. One such idea is are organized according to physical features as there is simply no correlation. Ammonites are in the bottom layers, because they are so middle to higher layers. We can also look come in a wide variety of sizes. Shouldn't they they're all at the bottom. There is no physical these fossils were deposited simultaneously Another strategy is to pretend that the separation marine animals remained towards the bottom since who couldn't run to higher ground got caught in top because they ran up some hills. This might you broaden the scope. Why are marine mammals with the ancient sharks? Why are flowering plants is clearly no broad correlation of this kind. sediment deposition happening so quickly in the coincidentally sort into the precise layers that exceptions, is beyond ridiculous. It is abundantly to time periods in which they were alive. There is is often then to simply lie about what we have geological features and pretend that they disprove faults where rock layers are pushed up due to than they really are. Creationists present this as But any geologist can easily match these strata they normally occur, and the fossils line up just fold sections of strata upside down, seemingly find things like animal burrows upside down in down. These are clear indicators that the strata the fact remains that anomalous data, even when would not be enough to negate the overwhelming point creationists have to simply pretend that as weak a defense as can be imagined, but it does to go. Scientists are evil, so just ignore all then the fossil record is a trick from Satan, or such a gaslighting Ashton Kutcher-esque deity comical. At the very least they just pretend that to an imagined tautology. The relative dating of are used to date the layers, so it's circular and absolute dating methods are completely different end, Young Earth creationists would have you life died, was rapidly deposited in sediments, couldn't possibly have formed that fast and in a principles even though evolution didn't happen. reality even a small child can understand that and we see things that are increasingly dissimilar gradients that trace clear lineages over countless that emerged and went extinct at certain events that are also well-substantiated. it gets even worse when you consider biogeography. distribution of fossilized remains. As we already certain regions. This is obviously because they us to believe that they walked from there all trace anywhere else. But we also now know due to together. Combining predictions in geology with the continents were once connected, and species the remains of those species in regions that are prediction that was later confirmed, as we found Africa and Eastern South America, as these once together many different observations and explains does to explain the sequence of fossilized remains and geographically. Everything fits precisely expectation that creationists could have. design proponents, rather than lying about the clearly outline, they will instead complain morphological change which they claim is more thus implying divine intervention. Of course explosion, which was a radiation event in which is more subtle here than with Young Earth First, they are always lying about the time list any timeframe at all, taking advantage of seem like an instantaneous event. If pressed, they instantaneous anymore. But that is still a rather be pinned down to a singular radiation event, million years, or even up to 80 million years while it is true that many new body plans emerged, the boundary between the Precambrian and Cambrian, all animal life suddenly exploded into other such radiation event they try to discuss. that there were absolutely no precursors to about the rapidity of speciation, they will which describes periods of more rapid change. describes all of evolution, when evolution often periods of change that do occur, they pretend see how this is not the case when we discuss of time for evolutionary principles to operate. more problems creationists face when trying to First, the people who wrote the bible were Those who believe the bible was written by god had a practically non-existent understanding of 14:18 say that bats are birds. They're not, some insects have four legs. They do not, they whale as a big fish. Whales are not fish, they're spotted babies in the presence of striped sticks. men with a tenuous grasp of the world around them. that creationists tend to use. Creationists do phylum, class, order, family, genus, and species. bible says kinds. At first glance this seems the animal kingdom. Dogs are a kind. Cats are Are dogs and wolves the same kind? What about tigers the same kind? Creationists differ in how hold on to the imprecision of the word kind animals of each kind. So if kind means species, kinds all got on there and stayed fed and alive. like a genus or a family, then the problem arises diversity of animals that exists today in a few it still doesn't mean anything, but it is used to they say that organisms only bring forth of their they are being deliberately vague. If kind means speciation events. We have physically observed a a new species that is not interfertile with the like Spartina anglica, and Tragopogon mirus, as paulistorum and the marbled crayfish Procambarus like the Californian Ensatina salamanders, connected by a geographic ring that represents paths diverge and meet, or one path makes a full are interfertile with their immediate neighboring those populations are unable to interbreed. Enough during these slow radiations that what was once Of course in response to this, a creationist those are just different types of salamanders, kind should be thought of as meaning genus, or of what is brought forth, as any new species will is an example of organisms bringing forth of their due to evolution. This "kind" could be the primate or the eukaryote kind. No matter what branching a taxon that encompasses everything that results a singular kind. Humans and chimpanzees are are both of the mammal kind. Humans and sharks are both of the eukaryote kind. Everything is the label imaginable, so everything does indeed bring This is one of the key things that creationists terms of nested hierarchies. Wherever branching descendants of a particular common ancestor are of that clade forever in the future. That's why and even fish. All land animals evolved from bony do not refer to ourselves as fish, rather we use includes all bony fish and all tetrapods. We're ourselves by more recent taxa, namely the genus to diverge and significant speciation events labels. It's like nested folders in your computer. you can have many smaller folders, like all the as well, which might be subphyla, or classes. but the hierarchy is always there, and if the diverse, you will likely create some new folders for phylogeny, which in the end is an arbitrary Things get trickier when considering can interbreed. A horse and a donkey can make But sometimes they are fertile. Wolf/dog hybrids, can happen. Creationists would say that this and with some justification. The definition can't a guideline. Nature does not care about the words trap nature in our attempt at rigid categorization principles. Populations diverge, sometimes losing that ability. It depends on the degree Of course no matter what you tell a creationist, never seen life go all the way from a fish to a several hundred million years, and apart from the evolutionary lineage happen precisely as it did an marking the result, then rolling them again and statistical absurdity. But in general, that much look to the fossil record to see what has already right? Well take a look at an extinct group of characteristics of both dogs and cats, these animals gave rise to both dogs and cats. differentiating members of one side from members for example, Cryptoprocta. This is on the feliform distinction is not trivial. Similarly, take a look elephants, and Pezosiren, one of the earliest having similar stocky bodies with short columnar consuming underwater plants. In general, such past, closer to the common ancestor of two clades. why some creationists resort to simply denying the fossil record. Once again, it's all lies from today, with their own eyes. Well very few can deny Unlike natural selection, which typically morphological change, artificial selection sentience. We can breed dogs in a deliberate way All dogs were once like wolves. But we identified we see today, with an enormous range in size in the form of crops. Virtually nothing in the it's all of human invention. We take things and breed generations selectively with the intent result is broccoli, kale, cauliflower, cabbage, but they all came from the same thing. and Brassica is still Brassica, but that's not change we can induce in just a few hundred years. continue to forcibly breed them. But there would the future, where we end up having to distinguish They certainly can seem that way, or they would creationists will not be satisfied, they want to dog sprout wings, or fins, or additional limbs. All primates, for example, have the same body body plan, just with significant modification. plan. Humans and gorillas are obviously different us? How much more significant are the differences between dramatically different dog breeds? this, organisms can indeed develop additional this will require molecular biology to explain, To continue briefly on this thread, we should Creationists will sometimes try to seem scholarly but in limited fashion. It is only this microevolution. Large scale evolution, or remains impossible. First, these are not that creationists use them. The only mention Russian entomologist Yuri Filipchencko, who used genetic change below the species level vs. above when it was thought that all speciation requires creationists are the only people who use these as we just alluded to, the processes that result the same processes. Pretending that you can pretending a leaky faucet could fill up a bucket could fill up the Pacific Ocean, it just would but an ignorance of evolutionary mechanisms. evolution that creationists deny, we can discuss are selected for, traits that are no longer as for their diminishment. But of course it is almost so we end up with tiny vestigial structures that but represent what once was there. For example, attach on their land-dwelling ancestors. It would whales hip bones but no legs, yet it makes perfect will desperately cling to minor ancillary those validate their existence in the context of in reproductive behavior, but this does not negate once did. It does some other minor thing, since it is working with. We can say the same thing for appendix, and more. To summarize, designating functionless, even though every creationist will in an attempt to disprove its vestigial status. are plenty of functionless biological structures. like all other mammals. Just the way that most sounds, we have those muscles too. And while a we can't actually aim our ears anywhere, despite and even attempting to function when stimulated anything. Their function has been completely lost. regarding evolutionary biology and paleontology. the tree of life is one of the most important actually proposes, rather than the cartoonish like porcupines magically morphing into fiddler because the real ammunition in obliterating into genetics and molecular biology, So far in this series we have gone through the to cosmology, planetary science, abiogenesis, continue by zooming in to the molecular level, standpoint of genetics and molecular biology. on even a high school level. For this reason, it creationists within this unintuitive sphere. If it's like shooting fish in a barrel. More focus most of their propaganda on this area and lying with confidence about things them a high probability of success. There's First we need to go over some background genetics, but you should, so let's hit the basics tutorials on biochemistry and biology that explain so head there after this series if you want to sure we know what DNA is. DNA is a nucleic acid, are four different nucleotides in DNA, each made These bases are abbreviated as A, T, C, and combinations to make DNA, which is made of two with the bases pointing towards each other in according to base pairing. A pairs with T and C of some number of chromosomes, which are very wrapped around proteins called histones. which contains instructions for the assembly and its maintenance throughout its life. In transcription, small portions of the chromosome generate an mRNA transcript. This occurs by but mRNA is a little different. Then the mRNA is base pairing, in order to generate a protein. match up with the mRNA transcript, three bases and the amino acids join together to form Proteins do almost everything in your there are enzymes that do chemistry, there are trigger physiological functions, and so forth. for our purposes here is the way that the genome type of animal. Unfortunately this is exceedingly which are a group of related genes that specify of an animal. Encoded in these genes is the number will develop along the body. This is because which are proteins that help turn other genes either promoting or inhibiting gene expression at genes have products that regulate so many other effects on the developing organism's body plan. mutations. Mutations describe changes to the mutations and they can occur for many different mutations. That is a change in just one base be to some other base. This can occur due to UV light, or totally natural decay processes where produce a high energy particle that strikes a base also occur during replication, where the enzyme enzymes exist to fix these errors, as well as the them all, so point mutations happen in every of the rest are harmful, and some are beneficial. the resulting protein change, and how that affects it could function more efficiently. Or less. functions if several mutations accumulate. mutations that can occur. There are mutations reading frame of the gene, which usually result macromutations. Very significant changes to gene duplication. During replication, the once. Additionally, during crossing over a type of cell division, misalignment can result chromosome. With two copies of the same gene, of the gene can be retained, while the other gene yield a totally different protein product. No and studies show that around 50% of gene A similar situation occurs with orphan genes, or promoters which sit next to the coding region resulting in transcription of the gene. A mutation chromosome which result in a promoter being placed This results in a brand new gene instantly, with random protein product. This protein might functionality can be subsequently molded through like gene duplication is magnified tremendously typically due to errors during cell division, don't separate during meiosis so one cell ends up leads to the possibility of many different which can have dramatic effects for an organism. cells of an organism, the effect is usually minor. organism, or the cells that produce gametes, the offspring having a significantly different a different phenotype, which refers to actual very tiny, but sometimes not so tiny. It simply development and the determination of the body even single point mutations can have drastic growing from a fly's head instead of antennae, The implications for evolution are obvious. outline the various mechanisms by which evolution selection, over the 150 years since, we now know Apart from mutation, which produces genetic better suited for survival and reproduction have are a few other important ones. Genetic drift an allele in a population due to chance and random animals have two copies of every gene, one from Alleles can be dominant or recessive, and this of a particular trait that is expressed on the the movement of genes from one population to increase genetic diversity. Then there is sexual evolutionary fitness. This operates by criteria can produce interesting morphological features. epigenetics, the list is long and we need As we can see, evolution relies largely on on the genetic level which Darwin could never knew that DNA existed. Creationists relentlessly in general never shut up about Darwin for this we actually understood evolution, so they will Young Earth creationists and intelligent design mantra, random mutation and natural selection life. They will all say this every chance they background information we just went over, we can say random mutation, they mean point mutations. macromutations like gene duplication, de which produce significant discrepancies when they say natural selection, they are ignoring the others we described. This is and potentiality of evolutionary processes. will take advantage of the negative connotation of are harmful. They will say things like "mutations of toxic green goo has fallen on the DNA and is are simply changes to the genetic code. As we are neutral. The mutation does not result in any remaining possibilities, some are harmful and some to the protein. Is the amino acid that changed in to bind to its substrate more tightly? Or not at good, depending on the situation. Significantly those organisms tend to die quickly without beneficial mutations and improved function, which Another creationist fixation has to do with DNA polymerase, and remark how unlikely it is for seem impossible, they will play a devious numbers acid residues, there are 20 amino acids, so the chance is one in 20 to the 300th power. Their and conclude that it can only exist because god sequence is far from the only sequence that will in the active site of an enzyme have limited but the rest of the amino acids contribute only tremendous variability. There are sets of amino have the same general structure plus a variable side chain, meaning they consist of only carbon we could easily swap to another similar one and non-existent. Only if we switched from something like alkyl to one containing a hydroxyl group, folding pattern, and even then it is unlikely to of the amino acid residues could be completely similar. Furthermore, new enzymes don't have to with moderate efficiency and then get refined we know for a fact that many different because different organisms have different DNA polymerase, different organisms have different and we give them different names, yet they manipulate the amino acid sequence of enzymes the natural counterpart. There is tremendous place. So this is lazy propaganda on the part stumbles upon functional sequences by chance, selection. Plenty of research has been done sequences are an abundant source of bioactive Recalling the creationist claim that this seems even more ridiculous in the light distinction between the two, it's all based on mutations and especially macromutations can in a single generation. Changes to HOX and plan. Differential gene activation can affect cell regions of the body to do different things. And incredulity regarding embryonic development. works. If a creationist tells you that evolution ask them how a body plan is implemented during ask them point blank. All animals begin as one animal with a specific body plan? Just sit and it will be vague, like: "The DNA has the plan." But how? Ask specifically and repeatedly. does the body plan develop? I bet you a million you a detailed answer. The reaction to this is arises. You have no idea what happens on the becomes a complete organism. Yet you are somehow produce? Hopefully this will embarrass them enough beliefs. If they are quiet enough to receive more plans arise from the time-regulated expression can change the body plan. Tell them about all the heard of. Tell them about examples of visible like flies growing legs instead of antennae. is no barrier preventing new species from change accordingly, so there is no meaningful Getting more specific on the anatomical like from sea to land or from land to sea, is it to webbed hands and feet, to fins? Is it really occur? What are the necessary changes to the direction? Even with humans, early in embryonic paddle shapes. Fingers and toes subsequently is between them. This loss of webbing is due so genes are selectively expressed in those the fingers can separate. If those genes are not disorders in humans where precisely this happens. it would be an enormous fitness benefit. many organisms within a population can have the genome can affect embryonic limb development and then you have fins. All of this is determined going through different stages anyway. Large scale a certain aspect of embryonic development in a blocking a single gene from being expressed. And we are even identifying intermediary structures. can be many gradations in between, such as for either walking or swimming. Even this because such an organism can suddenly evade Continuing with embryonic development, a favorite early history of embryology. In the 19th century, the embryos of many different species and Comparing these developmental pathways offers since many aspects of development are shared all chordates, including mammals, birds, reptiles, notochord, dorsal hollow nerve cord, pharyngeal thyroid gland at some point in their development. as adults, like lancelets, but others lose at lack an intact notochord, pharyngeal arches, and become the intervertebral discs, the pharyngeal and the post-anal tail shrinks away to a tiny still do form during embryonic development. We into the soft tissue. It would seem odd from go through stages where structures grow that But it makes perfect sense in the context of and then mutations cause gene expression to structures then become reduced or modified. chordates go through a phylotypic or pharyngula as elephants and sharks look extremely he referred to as "ontogeny recapitulates recapitulate their evolutionary ancestry during like the way that mammalian earbones detach from the idea is not accurate. By this we mean that a followed by an amphibian stage, and then a recognized the extreme similarity early on but The drama enters when people accuse Haeckel of it also included a few biologists. They will characteristics, since they were hand drawings. of comparison. Additionally he accidentally his first edition, but this was pointed out to Creationists essentially make a lot of fuss out ask them to clarify what they mean and where they Even more important, however, is the fact that through these stages, and various mammalian significant portion of development, something where we no longer have to draw embryos, we can more or less just like Haeckel's drawings. from intelligent design proponents that must be time problem. This one says that adaptations which of the improbability of those specific mutations a lot of issues here. First, nature is never occur and they are either selected for or they in a specific sequence, they could occur in any together during the recombination phase of sexual mutation and the offspring has both. Furthermore, selected for because only the entire set confers mutations could still confer a slight survival A similar argument from ID proponents is that biological structures are so complex, with so many evolved, because removing just one component none of the individual components can have been piecemeal. It's all or nothing. Their favorite flagellum. They will describe this structure drawing parallels to actual human machinery. these things, so god must have built this thing. when describing something like the bacterial different types of bacterial flagella there are, which demonstrate the range of solutions nature a flagellum is highly complex now, it doesn't mean have complexified after the general function was components that others possess, yet they still of exaptation. Instead of waiting for entirely components of a bacterial flagellum, existing entirely new functions. Sometimes a very small and a new protein suddenly exists for inclusion structures are never actually irreducible, and do exist. For the bacterial flagellum, a injectisome. This is a needle-like protein complex but instead of generating motion it secretes the flagellum evolved from the injectisome or vice with any irreducibly complex apparatus, there is we see one. It uses only some of the components function. We can say the same thing about that they claim is irreducibly complex. When they about the evolution of eyes, and the many types tiny bundle of photoreceptors to complex eyeballs in between. In fact it is known that eyes have species, as an example of convergent evolution. that bestow this function will be heavily selected resulting in many different types of eyes. It's smaller structures are still useful and of photoreceptors can indicate to an organism enough for it to move towards a region where it microorganisms. The same can be said for metabolic irreducibly complex, but the evolution of this concepts of sequential changes and exaptation mountains of primary literature on these topics, A good analogy for irreducible complexity is many different species of animals, plants, fungi, such that the removal of one species just like one protein from the flagellum. But precisely as it is today. Ecosystems respond to slowly shifting inputs, and interdependence can of time allow for a gradual response that produces like deleting an entire population of organisms, stripping away components of the ecosystem doesn't this specific ecosystem wasn't at one point much In general, the pseudoscientific nature of its proponents to put forward a rigorous model. are not? Is there an empirical way to test whether of any kind regarding biological systems? When admit that they can't answer these questions, which is a total copout. And also, they their most favorite example of the bacterial the gaps argument in a tuxedo, nothing more. lie about is the proportion of the genome that is of the genome, that is the percentage of actual ribosomes, transfer RNA, and so forth. Some time no function, and was therefore referred to as junk that there are sections that serve some role in enhancers, and other elements that have important 10% in terms of the proportion of the genome that of course makes perfect sense in the context of and only certain portions of the genome evolve be replicated and maintained at great energetic have evolved genomes that are entirely functional, decreases along with decreasing population sizes, strength of natural selection on mutations. junk DNA, as opposed to some bacterial species functional DNA in their genomes. In the context of a designer simply design a genome without that doesn't do anything? Creationists will cite vaguely reference more modern knowledge and say: "See! There is no junk DNA! All of intended!" But this is a fabrication. Most of the small fraction turned out to have functions that Speaking of promoters and other genomic elements, structures that specifically demonstrates how a wild-type strain of E. coli and stripped away the gene necessary for metabolizing lactose. which was replaced with totally random sequences, the resulting lactose-metabolizing enzyme the promoter region was simply deleted and these bacteria could not survive on lactose alone clones with different random sequences were which they could metabolize, and increasing levels selection, clones arose which metabolized lactose. thrived on lactose alone and the newly evolved some of which were also paired with mutations in only one that could never evolve was the one where This illustrates again the power of selection in function in the presence of a selection mechanism, it is demonstrated for them clear as day. It always forget to mention, that there are many distinct proteins can perform the same function their big number games even more meaningless. molecular biology pertains to soft rex femur was found with the modified remains fragmented blood vessels, and the remains of as biological material was thought to not be able Young Earth creationists claimed it was proof were not ancient but recent, and walked the Earth key facts and very obvious explanations. In preserved under the right conditions. The process with air and water. But this soft tissue was in contact with hemoglobin and the mineral walls it does not change the dating of the specimen. regarding genetics and molecular biology, and how far beyond reasonable doubt, we certainly can and other such complex topics. But we also can most people can wrap their heads around. Your because it is a combination of the genomes of on the basis of genetic similarity. Using the who your father is, and your father's father, and anyone presume that this concept doesn't work more Humans and chimpanzees share 98.8% of their ancestry. Other primates are slightly more distant. And we can do this type of analysis so many other indicators that align with this or de novo genes. When an organism develops an show up in its entire pool of descendants if the another marker of common descent. We can say or ERVs. This is when a retrovirus, a special its own genetic code into the genome of a host an animal. Its offspring will then have that and this will be another marker we can use to ways to confirm evolutionary lineages that make We can expand this way of thinking to any genome theory, one would simply need to find two species have to be closely related under an evolutionary such that they have a completely different suite design were the case. Why wouldn't the designer forms? And it would be nearly inexplicable in many enzymes become totally different in what Of course we never see this. The more related two genetic similarity and the more enzymes they have design, but when absolutely every aspect of principles, what room is left then, for this you believe in? Not much room at all, in fact. scientific portion of this series. Let's move arguments that creationists make that are somewhat At this point in the series, we've covered an creationists employ, from cosmology all the way reviewing arguments that creationists put forward scientific data, but are rather more philosophical creationists are not just allergic to science, but its purest form when the arguments are intended inquiry. We can also take this opportunity to that creationists use in discussion or debate, didn't fit anywhere else in the series. the universe, which we alluded to in part top to bottom, insist that the existence of the to have created it. They are perplexed as to how not apply this logic to their deity, which also resulting in an infinite regression of deities. exist without cause, so they invent an infinitely cause. If they are comfortable with their deity exist? There is no consistency to their logic. to identify some logical loophole to justify universe began to exist, so it needs a cause, but always existed, or exists outside of time, so existing infinitely into the past, or existence universe existing without cause. There is no basis even if we were to entertain the notion of a deity which can be disproved in countless other We can all admit that existence is a mystery. The and thinking about that idea is discomforting. discomfort when imagining a deity existing Creationists perceive a difference because they either because they were told the deity exists worldview would be devastating to their psyche, convinced themselves that their deity will save reasons people will insist that a deity must disprove the existence of a deity. But the notion points to the existence of a deity, is ridiculous. like Leibniz, Wittgenstein, Hume, and Heidegger puzzling that anything exists rather than nothing. experience is dominated by causality, perhaps the of our experience and may be exempt from this This could be a deity, or it could be the universe thing. But if we are comparing the likelihood without cause, the former seems more likely. Some nothingness as an unstable state, such that it is, about as speculative as metaphysics can get, so at pointing out that logic definitely does not Because science does not understand how the it must have been god, this is called a god of the essence of this argument. Creationists use this that there are not naturalistic explanations origin and diversity of life. There are. Those into a gap that does not exist. The origin of the which is why deistic evolution is not specifically therefore god" is always the worst answer to any out of their respective gaps countless times in actually works, so one can simply extrapolate that baseless guesses that make one feel special. comfortable with not knowing things. or at least misuse of scientific terminology, Preachers in particular will exclaim or a fact. Therefore, it's never been proven. factually exists. It can be described by laws, or theories, such as Einstein's general which factually exists, and can be described by powerful than laws. Newton's equation is simply a but no explanatory power. Relativity has both. and much more, but also explains what gravity In science, theories are better than laws. We can happens. We observe evolution every single day. We how the distribution of alleles changes observe evolution. Evolution happens. There is no is that it isn't proven that all life evolved years. That's where evolutionary theory comes that can be described by a theory, evolution is by a theory. Evolutionary theory explains how selection in Darwin's time. This was broadened and and by the end of the 20th century it came to be theory of evolution, one which is still growing a guess. Theories are not guesses or opinions. of disparate data, elegantly explain all of this falsifiable predictions. That's what our of life, the fossil record, genetics, and so many single model. This model makes predictions, like on phylogenetic relatedness, or the locations of more. Evolution as a theory, which explains the doubt just like the theory of relativity. is blind faith, coupled with a willful ignorance blind faith. Creationists are constantly enacting We can see these defense mechanisms in action have created. First, they will refer to anyone who which is not a real word. This is done to can subscribe to, just like a religion. Of course any rational person can see that empirical science of reason in favor of emotion. Empiricism is a the evidence matters. They will do this with will complain about Darwinism, and Darwinists. him as not a scientist but a prophet. Again, this field. Science is undeniably superior to religion physically happened in the past. So dragging it to the utterances of a single prophet competing set of doctrines that people can Darwin would be paralyzed with confusion by the known that DNA exists or what molecules are occurred since his time is barely conceivable. they pretend that nothing has happened in In reality, pretending that modern evolutionary of Species is like pretending that Newton's Principia. It's preposterous. "materialism" as a dirty word for describing the in souls because they're afraid to die. Science is no evidence for them existing. This is one of propagandists to elicit an emotional response from you die, while we say you live forever. Who are This wordplay is used generally by out some of the trickery of intelligent design they desperately seek to differentiate themselves in particular. Part of this is because they want creationism that accepts a greater proportion of reason is a political one. These groups are funded the ultimate goal of pushing America, and perhaps An early step they've been pushing for decades is classes. This used to be called creation science. the word science in there. However, in 1987 the that "creation science" is a religious concept and if taught in public school science classes. had been pushing a particular propagandized it. With this term now a dead end, they needed a This would retain all of the lies and distortions everything would be the same word for word, except omit any specific mention of the Christian in the blanks themselves. Here is how the original that the various forms of life began abruptly with their distinctive features already intact. beaks, and wings, etc." The new book "Intelligent design means that various forms of with their distinctive features already intact - beaks, and wings, etc." Shockingly similar, don't be? I wonder. The second adjustment would be that scientists" with "design proponents". And by that and replace tool. We know for sure this is what contained in once place the telling typo "cdesign improperly replaced by "design proponents". How design is just creationism with a different So when propaganda-peddling intelligent design tell them that you know, they are cdesign Apart from this transparent treachery, these ideas are presented. Intelligent by accepting geologic time and some degree of It's just a glorified god of the gaps argument. evolutionary principles rather than presenting some artificial gaps for a god to fit into. design has no ability whatsoever to discredit that would not substantiate intelligent design in mine is right". Each theory must stand on its own theory in the first place. A new model must what it attempts to replace. There is no paradigm with absolutely nothing. New science must have account for more observations, require fewer research. Intelligent design does absolutely none science in front of stock images of laboratories Because they have no ability to discredit authority in the way of misleading quotations from Karl Popper, a preeminent philosopher of science, scientific theory, but a metaphysical research ever since without noting that Popper, after literature, changed his interpretation to add the testability and logical status of the theory opportunity to make a recantation." Popper was but he was not a biologist, so he never had any be presented as though his words can refute devious is the omission of his revised stance Why do they resort to misrepresenting Karl Popper simple. There is not a single creationist or member of any scientific or academic circle. try and paint the picture that there is a serious these ideas. Teach the controversy! In reality, Creationism is not science. It is exclusively nefarious think tanks, denying basic evolutionary are not like this. The handful of figures they support creationism are always speaking outside that they are specifically placing blind faith There is no scientist that uses geological data best one or two who are credentialed but admit so their scientific authority is compromised of an authority than a preacher or your neighbor. prey to Morton's demon, which lets some science present themselves as highly science-minded, and other concepts, but then block out anything And with the creationist preachers themselves, personification of the confirmation bias of their a thousand times, which they keep repeating over ignore the refutations and don't understand them to expose such a figure, rebuttals must be made the chances of getting through to somebody. technically isn't even wrong. It must be explained evolution. Each creationist talking point must be must not be allowed to gish gallop, they must be When all other options are exhausted, preachers substantiate their script, they will simply because it's not testable or repeatable. Once the types of observations and predictions are specifically complaining about the fact life on Earth with 3D glasses and popcorn. Of we don't need to watch or even be able to see see atoms, yet we do chemistry. We can only see yet every portion has some practical application. but we can make reliable inferences based discussed throughout this series. Imagine a I missed it! I guess I'll go home." No, they begin and so forth. These clues will help elucidate This is an empirical approach to solving a case, particular research question. "You weren't there" actual argument to make, this is why creationists lie about the evidence supporting evolution. It so they have to erase it in order to ensnare their the Cambrian explosion. They lie about the lack of level genetics concepts. Dishonesty is their only Nevertheless, cognitive biases keep creationists unreasonable level of skepticism towards of scientific knowledge, while displaying If a creationist starts saying "you weren't you can turn it back on them and their scripture and see how quickly they become desperate to most important question in science, while The reason it is forbidden is that what is completely incompatible with logic. It is is when you really stop and think about it. If in a god who made millions of different types of including almost all humans. Why? Do omniscient, in common descent with divine intervention, they time because he can't figure it out on the design a universe with the right conditions for out. Instead the creationist god is sitting in he's dissatisfied with what has showed up thus that should elicit fear and obedience from us? is a trick from the devil or a test from god to in favor of blind faith in a god that makes no those of us who do not submit with so little as smart as he made us on purpose? It all falls going to do, he's not omniscient. If he knows he's not omnipotent. If he knows what we only to torture us eternally for what we he's not all-loving. At the very least we can this basis alone. It doesn't mean no god exists, pretty easily. But that is why creationists are must be reinterpreted to fit scripture, never science and logic. The scripture is the ultimate only way to retain any power over someone's creeps in, it has to be shut down. People must not just them, and they chose the right thing ignorant men are more reliable than what we be true in this modern era, and anyone This is the attitude that can make it so are genuinely misled and defending their faith, or order to ensnare more followers. Their confidence, You have to identify their weak point and bring them back. What do you mean the probability number? How did you calculate that? Based on what they are just regurgitating a talking point that So when they inevitably gish gallop, cut it Redirect to your line of inquiry. Why can't you it a point to debate regularly is undoubtedly Only by showing how clueless they are about the their lack of authority and disempower their They need high stakes, so they pretend evolution eugenics, and so forth. This is all a script Nazism was a Christian movement. As philosopher leading Nazi theorists specifically rejected character. Whatever they bring up in this arena, and many of those people are religious, the is the notion that morality is impossible and there is no evidence for a deity, so clearly may not be objective, as we quickly realize with But atheists are at least as moral as religious principles whatsoever. Take a look at bees and the fittest doesn't mean kill everyone around you. take care of one another. Whatever maximizes and consequently whatever causes certain genomes But in general, creationists will always spew and they will always put forth a ridiculous the poor Christians. They've been marginalized godless scientists who are threatened by their and they're trying to keep god out of the are allergic to truth, and putting religion in unconstitutional. Scientists can be religious, Creationists are not part of science, they don't scientists don't waste a single second thinking Nevertheless, some creationists really do convert everyone, to save them all from hellfire. on the constitution, to infringe on individual truth. And they have the right to believe these but when they try to wield political they've crossed the line. Politely or not, they In summary, creationism by any is nothing but superstition and a tool of we can help everyone leave it behind. This is but the safety of society. Blind faith is a form to subservience will accept authoritarian rule. called theocracy, and we are already seeing the human rights on the basis of religious reasoning, science classes, these are the first steps. I won't get too deep with it here, but it and disillusioning as many of their captive importance. A key aspect of this fight is the why I continue to make academic tutorials in as people can use to gather the general knowledge But I also have created other content dismantling organizations like Discovery Institute. All so if you found this series useful and learning with some of these other resources. or simply convert a few family members over to