After onsighting El Grand Bellanco it was time to visit where there was a 9a It looked like We are in Cueva Negra It's a symbolical place, People probably One interesting thing, that the underground-level caves where we climbed last time. And here, is Parada de los Monstruous 9a. Pedro and Nuria It already has some ascents, ... but definitely It is an iconic route. It had been of just few routes until now together with Jonatan Flor. They established at least 10 routes We've been here for 2 weeks already because I'm still I like those If I don't explore the whole Parada There are definitely harder routes 9b for sure, 9c I don't know Hard to say if, that you've tried as well There are many routes, When I was the lower part The ground was relatively parallel so you feel So you can check out In the first 15 meters, how I was going to climb it. Higher up, but I was hoping is maybe not the crux. Maybe around 15 meters, and I expected it I started climbing, The climbing was I definitely previewed This was I felt like I was making no mistakes and the kneebar was That gave me quite a lot of confidence Looking at it from the ground, It was obvious that there should be which is not But it worked out I got to another rest I clipped the next quickdraw that this was going There was chalk I wasn't sure At first I felt like Then I decided No, what the hell?! Damn! I was really motivated, I climbed Then I was hesitant, In the meantime, and then I broke I could still hold on but as I was falling, Even though I'm pretty sure if I was free soloing, In that case So I just said, &quot;Take&quot;, and went down. So definitely but I think you need to stick Now it's going I still haven't tried so it's going to be So... exciting! After one hour of rest Feeling definitely a bit less motivated But still wanting In the end, for me personally, was going all the way to the right with a strange match getting into this undercling, and going left I think this part is definitely because there's just It's difficult On the other hand, I would definitely go to the left but I think that I wouldn't fall off The real crux of the route Off this good kneebar you do a couple of moves On these side pulls, and then there are a couple of ... and doing this move Once you get this one leading up to yet another rest Here I was also entering a section ... the whole route, After I finished my onsight try, He told me the beta I was also told that the next section so I definitely wanted This is quite interesting. The next clip isn't hard but it takes a little bit This is a super weird move. You have this weird left-hand undercling Especially with the lower foot It's a move where you feel like Luckily I hit it perfectly, did the next move, The feeling when you climb that you never really get but it's the overall fatigue depending on how Right here but it's this overall fatigue As long as you keep having good rest, but as soon as you do where it revolves and the intensity then you find out I'd like to note that the first ascent without the kneepads, which definitely makes There is almost no doubt without kneebars, I think with the kneepads, So it's a pretty impressive ascent This section is really fun! Going feet first, It's more like... but the fact that I was flashing it, Here I have my feet jammed But it's kind of strange. Because of the feet you can't get It's not like I was nervous but there was one or two seconds so I'd like to have my hands These are all good holds It was a good decision Like this, I was going But then it was still Not knowing where to go... Even though I got some beta I definitely I didn't feel like it was over, even though the higher you go, So... there was this but it's that the very was bolted and climbed by Craig Smith, who was there on the visit. Climbing all of the first pitch giving it 7c, for this pitch of climbing... And also I think is really bold. I tried my best to give it The lower part was okay I broke a tiny sidepull. So the onsight try was over. I went up to the end and then I went down I didn't have because I knew it would be So I had to settle I quickly climbed the first 15 meters where I broke the hold Due to the broken hold and I knew The crux revolves almost nonexistent you have to slap up then right hand is absolutely nothing, slap up the arete again, and you have to go up Just an amazing climbing on sandstone, Really cool to climb. Then you continue You're in a vertical wall quite powerful Also the pump even though Also, as I didn't have much time I definitely felt I really wanted and I knew that to give it another try Also in the previous try, so sometimes I was Just like It wasn't very comfortable Right above my head, and then you're facing which is very interesting. You traverse Just to the left of the arete, But this position This right-hand makes you feel like I had a certain sequence in my mind but I figured out So I had to improvise. This heel hook Here I was thinking, I shouldn't fall anymore.&quot; And I knew that very soon where I can and the climbing I really like it when a pitch and then where you know and you can enjoy ADAM: Good, good! Woohoo! OK! The very last pitch on amazing grey limestone. I think it's around 6c. A GUY: Great! I was also told waiting for me on the top. Go for it, Adam. A WOMAN: Go for it, Adam! It was, I have to admit... I mean, I was when they told me Like, wow, what the hell? But then you're standing on the edge, And with the experience of climbing, &quot;Will the catch be rough?&quot; But it was super soft. Super nice! I wish I could do it Well, it was definitely Three pitches, The first pitch The second pitch but I broke and at first, I thought, But then I found You're having a really good arete, and this one is really bad. I think it's and then it's still resistant. In total, I think it's 8b+. And then the jump... I think it's impossible not to be scared You know but it takes But as soon as you start flying, Hippie, here is my photo book. The climbing community I mean, it's really difficult which would be It was really cool to see was stirring up It was definitely that are Thanks for all and hopefully,