Hurry up, hurry up! From there, we go to one Glory to Ukraine! Glory to the heroes! I decided to carry out a special military operation. To achieve this, we will strive to demilitarize and denazify the Ukraine. Glory to Russia! Defend your lineage, defend yourself! Defend your lineage, defend yourself! It's the best weapon, the Russians love this weapon. Do you know how many people you've killed on the front line? I'm not counting. Ukraine ! Ukraine ! Sacred mother of heroes! Sacred mother of heroes! I serve the Ukrainian nation! May death be sweet to you on the battlefield. May death be sweet to you on the battlefield. You've probably already heard a military branch of the Ukrainian army, famous both for its frontline victories against the Russian army in several regions of Ukraine, but also because several international media investigations have shown that some of the regiment's fighters are neo-Nazis. I was able to meet some of the soldiers from the most radical fringe of the regiment, and it took me a very long time to Before I start, it's very important for me that you bear in mind that the people you're about to see are not at all representative of either Ukraine or the entire Azov regiment, which has changed enormously since the start of the Russian invasion in February 2022 Most of the images were filmed at that time, when the Russians were at the gates of Kyiv, the capital. This was a time when the regiment exploded in terms of recruitment, with several thousand Ukrainians joining its ranks because they wanted to defend their country, and I say this because all the statistics we had about the regiment at the time, and what we thought we knew about the number of neo-Nazis in Azov, all became somewhat obsolete overnight. Secondly, some of the people I met weren't Ukrainians, but were Russian or Belarusian neo-Nazis who had joined the Azov regiment. This report was done with Camille Courcy, who filmed me. We were there together at the start of the invasion, and it was with her that we met the first members of Azov near a bombing raid in Kyiv on the capital's television tower. Hello ! Hello ! We're all from Azov. Yes, it's Azov. We can't show anything for the moment, you see there are four automatic missiles there. The guys here will keep an eye on things. Are there any missile residues? They're on the other side. We then went to another bombing site where I met two Belarusian soldiers who had fled their country to fight with the Ukrainians. And it's important to remember that Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko is a dictator close to Putin. That's when I start hearing interesting things. Lukashenko is an illegitimate usurper of power in Belarus, totally dependent on Vladimir Putin and his regime within the Russian Federation. When hostilities with the Russian Federation began, I supported Ukraine. I understood that Ukraine was the bridgehead of renewal, which could, among other things, enable Belarusians to free themselves, after we had freed Ukraine. After talking to this Azov fighter, he tells me about his comrade next door, who is said to be a hooligan with Dynamo Minsk, the Belarusian capital. He's a Dynamo Minsk hooligan, one of the leaders. I'm immediately concerned because I know that there are hooligans from Dynamo Minsk and Kyiv who are neo-Nazis. There are so many Ultras soccer hooligans who write to us and who have already been here. And they want to join us in defending Kyiv and defending Ukraine. Talking to him soon made me realize that he might have an important role to play between the hooligans in Minsk and those in Kyiv. I coordinate all the people who leave there. Many soccer fans from all over the world write to us. And people understand that this is, in a sense, a war of good versus evil. And it's pretty obvious who's representing good and who's in the role of evil. This is the last war after which it will be us or them. Because if Putin comes here, then Poland and other countries will be next. Then white Europe and its culture will fall. white Europe and its culture will fall. When I hear the translation of this passage, I realize that I've put my finger on something. In what he says, he explains that hooligans from all over Europe contact him via Instagram and so, inevitably, in order to find more elements, I went looking for his private Insta, which I ended up finding. Hey there, my friend from Russia, can you please take a moment to look at what you're doing? I immediately asked myself what this music was about, and in fact this song is an ode to the glory of Perun, the god of thunder in ancient Slavic mythology, but today with neo-paganism, the resurgence of polytheistic beliefs, he is also venerated as the god of warriors. And while doing some research on the Internet, I came across this ritual of a fighter from the Azov Battalion in Ukraine. Glory to Perun! Glory to Perun! Defend your lineage, defend yourself! Defend your lineage, defend yourself! Then by regularly monitoring the Belarusian soldier's Insta account, I realized I was dealing with a neo-Nazi. Once I found this guy, I negotiated to be able to continue following this group. As it was the beginning of the invasion, they had a lot to do, so they were hesitant, but I managed to convince them and they took me with them to a store where they were going to buy equipment and supplies. The skull on your right. This one? A little further on. Oui. There's almost nothing left. And the Ukrainian National Guard. In the store, one of the things that caught my eye quite quickly was the Patch wall, because I immediately recognized several of them. So I showed them to Adrien Nonjon, a researcher who knows a lot about ultra-right movements in Eastern Europe. With war, there's a profusion of neo-pagan symbols of Nordic origin on sale and used by combatants. Another widespread practice is the use of runes. The Tyr rune, for example, is linked to the warrior archetype. And then there's the Odal rune, which in Norse mythology symbolizes the home and its defense. I see we're missing the little black suns too. It's an occult symbol used by Nazis and especially neo-Nazis. After the fall of the Third Reich. Did a Waffen-SS create this symbol? Indeed, that symbol holds historical significance, originating from Wewelsburg Castle, where the SS conducted training in the Second World War. From one thousand, nine hundred and thirty-three until the end of the Second World War, the Wewelsburg castle Adrien refers to belonged to Heinrich Himmler, head of Nazi Germany's SS and Gestapo, who is considered one of the most important war criminals of the twentyth century. Himmler had made this the headquarters of his SS soldiers, and the black sun symbol could be seen in many parts of the castle. After a few minutes in the Kyiv store, a soldier called out to me in French. You speak French? Huh? No ? Yes, I speak French. You speak French? Yes, brother. How? From the legion. The guy looked very young and explained that he'd been in the French Foreign Legion. He shows me his green beret, and to tell the truth, I'm really surprised because I didn't expect to see a legionnaire in this store at all, so I tried to find out what he'd come here for, but there's one detail I didn't immediately see. What do you need to buy? As I was about to leave him, I asked him one last question, and that's when I saw the detail I'd missed. The double sig rune, the symbol of Nazi Germany's SS. And so, likewise, I went looking on his private social networks and found quite a few things. First I came across this photo with a swastika, the main symbol of Adolf Hitler's Nazi Germany. A bit later, I discover a picture labeled &quot;14, 88.&quot; In fact, it's a kind of neo-Nazi code made up of the number &quot; &quot; which represents the fourteen words of a slogan invented by an American neo-Nazi and white supremacist called David Lane. And that slogan is We must secure the existence of our people and a future for white children. And the double &quot;eight&quot; refers to the double &quot;H&quot; in Heil Hitler, because the &quot;H&quot; is the eighth letter of the alphabet. There's one last photo I'm going to stop at, because I don't recognize the design on the shirt of the guy next to the Azov soldier, and Adrien is going to help me figure it out. He's wearing a t-shirt that can easily be identified as that of a group of ultra supporters attached to Kyiv Dynamo - the White Boys, in fact. Next to the badge of the Kyiv dynamo, you can also see a Celtic cross, which over time has become a symbol of the radical far right, and a skull, which was the emblem of the Totenkopf division, an elite division of the Waffen-SS. Initially, Ukrainian nationalists recruited widely, mainly from paramilitary formations in the early 2000s to late 1900s, but also from various ultra clubs, preserving their significance. So hooligans? Yeah, hooligans. But why? Because, quite simply, these people, unlike others, already had experience of violence. Violence is highly ritualized among them, right, already in the confrontations between supporters' clubs, but they also train, there you go, there are transit journeys, there you go. So now I understand that I've put my foot in the door of Azov's most radical fringe, and that makes me want to dig a little deeper and try to meet the leaders of these ultranationalists, and I'm going to insist on filming in their base or on the front line with them. They don't want us to film the journey so as not to reveal where this base is. So there you have it, I could film, but again, only inside. No ? If you tell me now? Later. Later. But the first attempt to get into one of the bases doesn't work. They don't want journalists to come and film. It's a little understandable, though, because we're at the beginning of the invasion and the Russian army is using all public video sources to find the geolocations of strategic points. But Camille and I felt that we shouldn't give up, so we decided to stay with them. It's a new salad for the Russians. They love it. I'm the first soldier to come to the Donbas with our partners' weapons. The weapon is an American M-four. It's the best weapon, thanks to the USA. The Russians love this weapon. In fact, this guy's name is Mikhail Maiman and he talks a lot on his networks about the frontline fighting with his unit. I decided to fuck a little Russian. We went into battle. Do you know how many people you've killed on the border? A lot. I can't remember. I'm not counting. I work every day. That's my job. I've been working every day since we were attacked by muggers. When I'm attacked, I defend myself. I don't count. And in fact, I understand that Mikhail is the right-hand man of someone more important who is also present in the room. Dmytro Korchynsky. Dmytro Korchynsky is a leading figure in radical Ukrainian nationalism, and is best known for co-leading what is known as UNA UNSO, an old Ukrainian nationalist group founded in the early one thousand, nine hundred and ninetys, which had already distinguished itself by fighting in various post-Soviet conflicts. In fact, Dmytro Korchynsky is one of the veterans, one of the people who initiated this movement, with the primary ambition of destabilizing Russia, because at that time, in the nineties, Ukrainian nationalism was all about thinking about how to wrest Ukraine from Russian influence, and this meant, in particular, a strategy of destabilizing Russia by attacking its peripheries, so in this case, there you have it. Territories at war with Russia. Territories at war with Russia. I formed the Sainte-Marie battalion when the war began in 2014. We all fought together. And now we've created the &quot;Brotherhood&quot; battalion. And in the same way, we're continuing the war against Moscow. And I hope we'll end it on the ruins of the Kremlin. He's an orthodox fundamentalist, that's what he is. Their ambition is really to re-establish a form of theocracy in Ukraine, where Orthodox values would govern society. He's against women's rights to a certain extent, and he's against gay marriage. He's known for this in particular, so much so that he even talks - well, a little provocatively - of wanting to re-establish a form of Taliban, an Orthodox-inspired Taliban regime in Ukraine. In fact, after this meeting, doors will open. We were able to film some of their arsenal and weaponry, and we met other members of the regiment. I've got two minutes. This room, in particular, is the armory, the arsenal for our weapons. We stock up on automatic weapons, small arms, various types of machinery and distribute them. And at one point, one of our contacts in the SOF tells me that if we want, we can meet someone very high up but who apparently hates journalists. And we end up going to a room at the bottom of an Azov base floor. In fact, opposite me is Sergei Korotkik, an Azov leader who is considered one of the most dangerous men in the regiment. But at the time, I don't know. Instead of decorations, I received an award weapon. I was offered decorations, so I took the gun. Of course, it took on this appearance thanks to the meticulous work of the gunsmiths, but it wasn't as beautiful. It's a weapon of position, a talisman that accompanies me into battle. It's nothing to brag about. I use this one. Very quickly, he tells me he's one of the most wanted men in the Ukraine by the Russians. I was an intelligence commander in the years two thousand and fourteen - two thousand and fifteen in the Azov regiment. Has he killed many Russians? we'll say that I annoy the Russians enough to be one of the sixty-eighty people with a price on their head. Actually, it wasn't easy at all to find out more about Sergei Korotkik, because a lot of people are very afraid of him. I contacted one of the few investigative journalists who had looked into his past and was still alive. We spoke at length on the phone and he agreed to testify, but for his own safety, he didn't want to be filmed. Nor did he want his voice to be recorded or altered. He only agreed to tell me about his investigation by message. The voice you are about to hear is not his. I prefer not to do video or audio interviews because talking about him involves a lot of security risks. I started investigating Sergei Korotkikh because of his activities and links to crimes in three countries, Belarus, Russia and Ukraine. He is perhaps one of the most dangerous men in Ukraine because of his violent past. He himself maintains this image of a dangerous person in order to frighten his enemies. His violent past didn't actually start in the Ukraine, but in Russia and Belarus. I warn you, this story isn't easy to understand, so hang on. In fact, Sergei Korotkik is accused of murder in the three countries mentioned by my source, Russia, Belarus and Ukraine. But above all, he was a neo-Nazi who played a very important role in Russian terrorist groups in the two-thousand years. He's Russian by birth, but he actually grew up in Belarus. During his youth, he studied at Belarusian KGB training schools, but his studies didn't stop him from being active in various extreme right-wing and neo-Nazi organizations, both Belarusian and Russian. In particular, there are two organizations in which he has been actively involved. On the one hand, there's the Russian national unity. Paramilitary organization and neo-Nazi political parties. And another movement he partly founded was the Societe Nationale Socialiste. Illegal Russian neo-Nazi far-right organization founded in two thousand and four by Dmitry Rumyantsev and Sergei Korotkikh. Long live the Mouvement National Socialiste! Vive Hitler! Vive Hitler! The National Socialist Society was an organization whose members worshipped Adolf Hitler, who was preparing for a race war and wanted to cleanse Russia of ethnic minorities. In fact, he wanted to plunge the country into chaos and seize power. In this group with Sergei Korotkik, there were other names of neo-Nazis and murderers known in Russia, such as Maxim Martsinkevitch, nicknamed Teysak, meaning the cleaver. We have to proudly claim that we are Aryans, and do away with all the Negroes, Chinese, Jews and Caucasian wives, so that there's not a single one left. Glory to Russia! A man who confessed to murdering several people before being imprisoned, and is someone who has been talked about a little in France, because he was known to have terrorized and tortured many people from the gay community in Russia. The members of the National Socialist Society are extremely dangerous and are accused of having killed several dozen people. In particular, they are said to be the authors of a despicable execution video filmed in two thousand and seven in a wood near Moscow. In the video, two men can be seen tied up on their knees. Glory to Russia! One is about to be decapitated with a saw, and the other shot in the head. In fact, the victims were both from ethnic minorities in Russia that the neo-Nazis wanted to wipe out. The person shot was of Tajik origin, and the decapitated person was identified a few months later. He was Shamil Odamanov, a twenty-four-year-old from Dagestan, a federated republic of Russia. To this day, the video is considered Russia's most infamous and despicable unsolved hate crime. In two-thousand-fifteen, Israeli filmmaker Vladi Antonevitch made a documentary about the case, and with his investigation, he believes that Sergei Korotkik is the executioner who beheaded Shamil. I'm posting a link to his documentary on YouTube, which is completely insane and truly chilling. And in fact, it's partly because of all these accusations that he left Russia with a trail of corpses in his wake. I've been in conflict with the Russian Federation since two thousand and eight. I was declared an extremist in two thousand and nine. A lot of nonsense has been written about me, attempts have been made to discredit me, they've tried to have me handed over and imprisoned. Many of my friends have been imprisoned, and those who have died are the result of interrogations carried out in Russia. Sergei has always denied the murder charges against him, but in September two thousand and twenty, the neo-Nazi I was telling you about, Maxim Martsinevich, was found dead in a Russian prison. Authorities say he committed suicide, and at the same time, the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation, the country's main investigative body, revealed that shortly before his death, Martsinevich had written a note to a friend in which he confessed to the murder of several people in two-thousand-seven, including Shamil Odamanov and the Tajik killed in the video. He also declared that it was Sergei who had decapitated Shamil. It was partly because of all these accusations that he fled Russia to Ukraine. In two-thousand-fourteen, at the start of the war, he was even naturalized Ukrainian by former president Petro Poroshenko, but very quickly, over there, he was also accused of several murders, and that's where his profile becomes complicated to pin down, because it's hard to really know where his loyalties lie. He may have a link with the murder of Azov fighter Yaroslav Babich, but also with that of Belarusian opposition figure Vitaly Shishov and finally that of Belarusian journalist Pavel Sheremet. Pavel Sheremet was killed in July two thousand and sixteen in Kyiv by a bomb placed under his car. He was a Belarusian journalist who publicly denounced the authoritarianism and corruption of the regime of Lukashenko, the Belarusian president. Fearing for his safety, he then moved to Russia, where he continued to investigate, in particular, the power of Vladimir Putin. He quickly became a voice of dissent there too, and eventually returned to Ukraine to continue working in safety. He was a journalist very committed to human rights, regardless of the regime in power, and just before his death, he had written about the Azov battalion, which had just been integrated into the Ukrainian army, and explained the risks that this militia could represent for the country at the time. There have been many, many theories about his death, but in two-thousand-and-one, the online news site EU Observer published an audio recording said to be the voice of the head of the Belarusian KGB, in which he is heard saying that Sheremet should be killed with a bomb. As is often the case with political assassinations in Russia, Belarus and even Ukraine, nothing has ever been officially proven, but that's also why many people link Sheremet's death to Sergei Korotkik, who worked for the Belarusian KGB. In fact, we're not one hundred percent sure that Korotkik has cut all ties with the Belarusian KGB and the Russian FSB. In any case, Korotkik's past as a former student of the KGB or as a member of right-wing extremist organizations under FSB surveillance or control is always brought up. And for some, yes, he is a Russian mole. Korotkik, though publicly denying it, is suspected of murdering Sheremet because Sheremet believed Korotkik was involved in the disappearance and assassination of Boris Nemtsov, a Russian journalist who opposed the government. We must say no to war! Let's stop talking nonsense! We must say Russia and Ukraine without Putin! Russia and Ukraine without Putin! Boris Nemtsov was a Russian politician, but above all one of the most important opponents of Vladimir Putin's regime. He was also close to Alexei Navalny, one of the Russian president's most critical opponents, who died suddenly in prison on February sixteen, two thousand and twenty-four, having already been poisoned in two thousand and twenty. He survived, and several international media investigations pointed to the responsibility of the FSB, the Russian intelligence services, in the assassination attempt. Allo ? Hm, I get it, I get it. In the end, the interview was fairly short. At the time I met him, I didn't know who he was, so I think he was trying to use me, thinking that I'd probably get some messages across, but above all I couldn't confront him with the accusations that exist about his links with all these murders. Whatever happens, with this kind of character, it's something I would have prepared for months and months before taking such a risk. To finish this video, I wanted to tell you one last anecdote because during the interview, I noticed a guy listening in on our conversation and as I was leaving the base, I filmed his face to find out who he was. It turned out to be Nikita Makevei, code name Odyssey, Sergei's right-hand man, who was also a Russian neo-Nazi naturalized in Ukraine in one thousand, nine hundred and twenty-nine by Volodymyr Zelensky. And that same year, on his Instagram account, he had posted a message paying tribute to the terrorist Brenton Tarrant, who had filmed himself killing fifty-one unarmed people in mosques in New Zealand. He was a white supremacist who is now worshipped by neo-Nazis the world over for this massacre and terrorist attack. That's the end of this video, I hope you found it interesting. In reality, if I had been a Ukrainian journalist, it would have been extremely dangerous for me to publish it while in the country. And again, it's not because of the Ukrainians and the people there, but because of the few neo-Nazis you may have seen in this video. What's for sure is that my job will surely be a lot more complicated and risky if I go back to Ukraine, which I'd still like to do one day. And on a slightly more personal note, it was also important for me to tell you this story, to remind you that the people you've just seen, the murders, the threats behind them, the authoritarianism of the regimes we've been talking about, that's the far right in its violent form. And sooner or later, one cannot exist without the other. Thank you very much for watching this video. I'd like to remind you that for I have a Patreon page which helps me enormously to finance my videos. Don't forget to subscribe too. Thanks again for Don't forget to subscribe too. Thanks again for your support. See you soon.