During the first three years of RuneScape's the Magic skill was considered an expensive Runes were hard to come by in large quantities While small amounts of Runes could be bought stores or received as monster drops, you'd need a lot more than just those to your magic to any respectable level. This made the release of Runecrafting for RuneScape. The lower level runes like air, mind and water Larger quantities of these runes became much making magic much more accessible. However, the higher-level runes were still Keep in mind the average player around this was still quite young, so very few people were willing to spend their back and forth between Even worse, since each essence only gave you single rune at the early levels, you were getting both bad exp and bad money. Heck, more often than not, the essence than you'd get from selling But some players stood their ground in the and as soon as the higher-level runes opened up to them, alongside the ability to get multiple they gained access to an untouched market a game that was slowly becoming one of the worlds most successful MMOs. And with some smart decisions and access to one player in particular would stand out largest cartel RuneScape's ever seen etching their name in history as one of This is the story of Larryr. The beginning of the Runecrafting but also a slow one, as the skill was The player Choppermad was in the lead on the hiscores for the first few days tightly followed by players like Kale Stille the Herblore legend Halw Gnun and eventually Zezima who going from level 1 to 63 Runecrafting and in just three days. Most people didn't care about the race. Keep in mind this huge skill release was you might know as RuneScape 2. The players were busy exploring the new, and new member after new member was seeking the adventure of a lifetime And it surely delivered. Killing monsters, doing quests, It was easy to get sucked into the game but just like in real life, making money So, when someone appeared promising vast to find someone not biting their hand off. 'Come one! Come all!' 'Yes - you in the back!' 'Come work for Larryr', the high-level player with a partyhat would 'And you'll receive 100k coins per hour'. A bargain. It might not have been the best moneymaker but for any low level player, 100k was a goldmine. Heck - even a higher level player would consider The partyhat donning player would give meet by the Nature Altar in Karamja, receive 25 noted essence, and find a way to unnote them. Every time you return with 25 unnoted essence, as well as your payment of 10,525 gp per trip, which would round up to about 100k per hour. A simple task. Several players would show up to do the job, where queues of people would be waiting for But at all costs do not enter the altar unless instructed to Along the queue, there'd be partyhat'd waiting along the line, deciding who could enter. And if you were lucky enough to do so, throwing her hands into the air to combine Trade quickly if you're too slow, Then back out, and repeat. Larryr no doubt appeared as a powerful player and she absolutely was. But her empire started slowly; with a combination of organised adult players and a whole lot of money. When the race for the top of the hiscores players started looking for ways to Well, it wasn't hard to see where the bottleneck the reason runecrafting was so slow was restocking at a bank and getting back to the But if you had another player running with who gave you their inventory of essence... Well, you've just doubled your exp rates. But why stop at just one other person? What if you never had to bank yourself, On May 15 2004, Larryr sat on a comfortable with level 75 and that's when she hired her first runner. Together, they'd run back and forth for with Larryr paying the appropriate money But as XP built up, runes did, too. And eventually unlocking double nature runes per essence yielded not but also money. Nature runes were still quite expensive, meaning the profit was rolling in. One runner eventually became two. Two became four. Four became eight. On July 5th, Larryr passed Halw Gnun with level 83 and was catching up to the top spot, Over the summer Larryr was directly behind him in the XP race, but Kale was also hiring runners to do the On September 15 2004, to achieve 99 Runecrafting and promptly stopped all operations. Larryr also achieved 99 Runecrafting overcoming Kale, and taking control of the crown on the top of the Runecrafting hiscores. The only difference between her and Kale was that Larryr had no intention of stopping. While the competition to 99 Runecrafting was there were very few who were mad enough So with most of her competition dropping off Larryr's business quickly became the most to make some quick gold. There was no shortage of willing simps mighty Runecrafting queen, And growing. In fact, it was growing too big. Larryr was no longer able to keep control The piles at the altar grew so large that people would complain about the wait. And then there's those acting in bad faith; from those pretending to be runners so to those pretending to be her to make Larryr needed help, and so, together with her close friends, they set to work; and shaped the first and largest Welcome to Larryr's Runecrafting Business! Would you like to be a runner? Across the game world, and hire players to join Larryr's team. They'd make sure to find players that on their hands to help run the essence. The player would be sent to a trainer; a player dedicated to teaching the player The business had some strict rules, but also to follow the RuneScape rules If you broke any of the rules, you're out. Once the player had been fully trained, The lowest tier on the Larryr hierarchy tasked with unnoting essence in the closest A collector would receive the unnoted essence and in return hand the runner 25 noted essence They would then get into the long queue and wait for their turn to enter. Along the queue, there'd be the security. Players who were trusted by Larryr herself, tasked to keep order in the queue. and that only people hired to join the business would receive If there were any problems, it was security's job to hop worlds and find a new world to continue the business and inform the team members of their alongside reminding them to turn Further up the hierarchy there were the managers. Acting like the boss on the site, their job was to make sure everything to see to it that roles that needed doing and make the hard decisions if somebody Need a trainer? The manager will find someone. A runner out of bounds? The manager will talk to them. Almost at the top, there's the CEO. Kind of a conflicting name, in this situation. The group of CEOs would be the very The inner circle, if you will. The originators and Larryr's closest friends. They'd receive the massive quantities selling them in Varrock or Falador, maybe even making forum threads on to sell them all. The money would then be split across who consistently would get 100k gp per hour speaking volumes to the massive amount of Now, I know what you're thinking. This sounds ridiculous. There's no way something like this would But, despite all odds, the system worked. The business was incredibly successful. In fact, Larryr was quickly becoming one of the most influential players in all of What? Hurry up already! We don't have all day. I'm trying! But it tells me the altar If only there was an app that'd let location. Have you tried turning on NordVPN? What? With NordVPN, you get access to over 5100 servers in 60 It's never been easier to get access to news articles or even games you usually The nature altar over there is a metaphor Oh yeah, I've heard of Nord. I was considering getting it to help protect but I don't know if I can be bothered setting on my laptop, phone, computer, cat, nintendo switch, playstation... You get the idea. Oh yeah, that's a huge pain, if you want to install it like a peasant. Ha ha ha. If you want to be cool, you can actually install NordVPN directly Its always-on features makes sure is protected and anyone at home can enjoy its benefits. It means your entire family, friends visiting and creepy guy standing outside your window can surf the web completely secure and enjoy the content they want Here - try activating it. Wow! Thanks, NordVPN. No problem! Go to nordvpn.com/rswill for the cyber month and get yourself a 2 year plan with one additional month on a huge discount! Make sure not to miss it with Will Miss It. See you around, Timmy! My name's Karl... Eh, he's gone. Alright, you missed your turn, go to the back What? :'( As Larryr's business kept growing so did the community. At one point, the queue of collectors the nature altar to the general store. Hundreds of players were hired by all looking to make money. Over the following months, Larryr increased her XP rates from 150,000 where efficient players running see 128,000 xp in the same time. By November 26, she amassed more than double the xp with only 3 players having Larryr also made herself untouchable If you ran for her, you couldn't run for Even if other runecrafters could afford one match Larryr's personal juggernaut. Purely to flex, Larryr bought partyhats for all members By 2004, Partyhats were already rare items, so their status as a symbol of power especially since they weren't cheap. On October 1 2005, Larryr finally which was almost five times larger And there were still only 17 players and hit 99 at this point; so to say Larryr was untouchable While Larryr's business was strict and there was now an incredible number you might be surprised to learn that warm and welcoming. Older players would assist younger ones friendships were formed and everyone seemed to be having The people you ran with weren't your coworkers; they were your family. Working for Larryr wasn't just it was seen as a great privilege and honour. This kind of wording was used a lot but most of those chat logs have been The only real documentation we have of the time are from archived forum posts; and what better way to show that off than "Erudites Needed Lead the World", a recruitment post penned by none other than Larryr herself. From Runescape's oldest temples forged forth the breath of a new civilization. Look around you in the game and you our future generations, We have created here what may never something you can only experience, We are role models encouraging and an honorable code of ethics I'm the #1 Runecrafter; outside of my one high skill Our Runecrafting is here to help their convenience. And that is where our adventure begins You will be a role model of our community Starting out as a runner and many No hassles and countless hours of selling natures, just honest cash available. As Christmas 2005 approached the team made a post to the RuneScape forums to take some time off for the holidays as if they were the ones in control appealing to the camaraderie between the ranks. The posts paint Larryr as some sort of saintly figure as if she was crafting runes rather than just paying people All good things must come to an end however and late 2006 is where Larryr Her son asked her to move to a and what sort of mother would turn down At the time of her departure, Larryr still dominated the hiscores with 157 five times that of second place. Reportedly, her account was banned for likely due to security concerns over The managers and CEOs of the business but as they'd spent the past 2 years none of them had actually trained and since no-one could craft double nature the business ran at a net-loss, Some of the managers tried to persuade experience cap at 200,000,000, Larryr briefly returned to the game in late 2007 so that she could donate all of her of the business; who then divvied it up between all the remaining team members. And with that final paycheck, Larryr's Runecrafting Cartel disbanded for The runecrafting queen will forever be remembered in the RuneScape history innovative and successful skillers in the It took a whole three years and the release of a faster runecrafting close to her on the hiscores; when Phoenix Odin eventually surpassed and went on to be the first player Larryr's legacy as a Runecrafting legend was honoured by the RuneScape when Mod Ash added the NPC "Larriar" replacing Aubury as the NPC that to any players who hit 99. And that's it for this one. This story has quickly become one of my Just knowing that someone was able without proper platforms to plan this on, who are known for being wild and unruly... It's a seriously impressive feat. Let me know what you all thought about If you were a runner back in the days, My name is Will Miss It and I'll see you