Approximately 64% of Americans, which is biggest fear about growing older is happen decades before anyone has signs or According to the Alzheimer's Association, unpaid care to people with dementia. One -negotiable is for you to have eight number of people in the U.S. with million and is expected to reach 8.5 45% of worldwide Alzheimer's could be taken as the first signs of cognitive kind of four steps along the past. Maybe critical lifestyle factors that can wait on a miracle drug. The time for us to now. Welcome back Quick Brains. I am your host still a high amount of skepticism around this is a topic as many of you know as grandmother to Alzheimer's when I was 7 passionate about this. I want to say thank limitless. We donated part of those particularly for women. Women are twice as Yet a lot of the research is done on men of my grandmother we do that. There's also optimistic showing that implementing a cognition and quality of life in dementia Heather Sandison. We are here today to misconceptions around Alzheimer's and brain health at any age. So this is a very share it to be able to post about it. Tag consuming this. Dr. Sandison is a founder of Solsari. It's a health clinic memory care facility to have the goal of independent living. She is the author of Alzheimer's which I highly recommend. The protect brain health. Welcome to the show having me. I really appreciate your work. something that's very here and dear to my topic. Anyone who's been a caregiver and through this experience. Maybe we could this inevitable part of aging. But your briefly inspired you to take on the task maybe we could highlight some of the key perspective on cognitive decline? Yeah, I mentioned, there's a lot of skepticism be reversed because we're all taught naturopathic school. I was told, don't for them if they have Alzheimer's or them false hope. And now my mentor, Dr. suggest there's nothing you can do for hopelessness that there is so much that we function wherever we are on the spectrum chronological age, wherever we are on the brain health. And I think you know, you eloquently and with your own personal people started to climb cognitively age not expect to see them get better. And this exercise and limitless, like, what is question that you're asking every day? And I saw in my practice was people with believe that that was possible. And I saw many of those stories in the book. But the trajectory of someone's cognitive from not being verbal, from using yes or in complete sentences, to having a know, being dependent on others to help to being able to do those things for skillback, but that ability to be back, that was when I was like, wow, this this from the rooftops. I can share this some research on my clinical practice. I reduce the suffering associated with this that. I call them truth pumps. And I just conversation is obviously not intended to Definitely talk to your educated health to San Diego, read her book. It's funny diagnosis of Alzheimer's and a prognosis, we know from, you know, people's belief outcomes. I'm curious. One of the see my parents or family members or just, early signs of Alzheimer's before it's not just staving off-channel. You could people maybe be looking out for? What the first signs of cognitive decline? confidence is higher. The younger someone spectrum of cognitive decline. So I think steps along the path, right? There's the You aren't even aware that something's actually are not aware that they're having or someone else to point it out. But there before anyone has signs or symptoms can get genetic testing, if you know, like had Alzheimer's or dementia. And so if you your 20s or 30s, that helps us understand can be empowered to reduce all of the Unmodifiable risk factors are our age, the We cannot change our genetic single nucleotide polymorphisms that can life. We can't change our EPOE status. We female. As you mentioned, women are much can't change the gender we were born with. there are tons. The Lancet Commission this summer in June of 2024. And they modifiable risk factors that have an Alzheimer's. And they, the Lancet, very suggests that 45% of worldwide Alzheimer's tremendous amount of control about how our Alzheimer's, first in when your brain is second is subjective cognitive impairment. different, we could remember that name, we remember that grocery shopping list five not being picked up on maybe on the cognitive testing. And then the third Now there is nothing mild about this their job, losing their independence, They're losing the ability to interact day but they're able to carry on a fourth stage, this is diagnosable ability to live independently, maybe to meaningful conversation and connection do is prevent the progression down that help people in that full Alzheimer's patients have proven the wrong that they resources. It requires more labor, more money. It requires just so more, stuff. And it takes more time. And so everyone would get what my mentor Dr. Dale know that you're supposed to go get a colon cancer and then to get rid of it at become something that kills you. And the modifiable risk factors that we reasons why someone might end up with traumatic brain injuries, sleep acne, imbalances, lack of purpose and meaning or loss, high cholesterol, high blood diabetes, uncontrolled blood sugar. These risk factors for developing dementia and have them earlier on before they're really much about them to optimize them. And oh, treating all of these things as that is more fulfilling, your blood sugar is optimized, you're getting good exercise, up, you're getting great sleep, you're for living a meaningful life as we age health at the same time. In what you're stages, stage three and stage four, which people real hope and you're offering already gifted to a number of clients and say, a holistic approach to Alzheimer's break down some of the most critical cognitive health. Yeah, so the six ways that we break it down. Toxins, and infections. And so if we have wrong place at the wrong time of any of stressors, structure, signaling and little, it's going to dysregulate that what we're looking to do is identify what from a medical perspective, we might want even go there or spend the money or look would recommend starting with the decisions that we make every day, those what we put in our mouths, about how much we get, what time we go to bed, the those small decisions that we make every our health. And so I would highly mental engagement and activity, a proponent of an organic ketogenic diet. don't have to do that. There's multiple think that what we'll play out in the consistent in our ancestors, right? And consistent diet. You couldn't get Nickers bar, right? And so there were abundance, there were periods when there of time when maybe only meat was carnivore diet or a ketogenic diet. And so because we don't live in the days of feast approximate that by going in and out of potentially a plant-based diet and particularly processed carbohydrates from to the diabetes, the blood sugar high blood pressure that is associated at from a dietary perspective, avoid continuous glucose monitor. Those are Stello.com. I think that's a phenomenal your blood sugar is optimized. And then least 200 minutes a week of moderate to one brain exercise that I recommend is engaging cognitively at the same time as this as well. The simplest form of this is conversation while you go for a walk. But zumba or you know, any yoga Pilates, by an instructor and you have to stay a great way to do it. Racket sports where engagement. You're probably outside love the pickle ball craze for this cognitively and physically at the same you're getting more benefit for your efficiency. I love that it's efficient. You can exercise and engage cognitively engage with people you love. So that's one. And sleep. What we see over and over night, if you have apnea events, that is have severe sleep apnea, when that's you can accumulate amyloid plaques just one night of sleep deprivation. So this is having a real impact on cognition everyone has access. If you have medicine. Everyone with Medicare should advocating for yourself. And it's a chore. wants to go for an overnight sleep study. the effort, because I have watched people mocha normal is 26 and above 30 is Assessment. And I have had more than one single-digit mocha score where they were. badly to almost double that. Back in the -appropriate gifts at birthdays and are back after being on that rapid again, some personal challenge. I have a 2015, I was sleeping maybe two hours a over 250 times in each time. Each episode a surgery at UCLA by the head of a throat. And they did a U-triple p. And cut out my went up to four hours, which is not great, general. But then I had my family tested have obstructive apnea. And just like engaged and traveling. And I'm hyper aware you know, and CPAPs and dental devices. have to go to a stale clinic overnight. an overnight sleep study. And yeah, just Is there any, I'm just out of personal like sewer system kicks in, you know, practically the brain age challenges. Is Is it only sleep? Deep sleep is the way can have a little bit of like using a support that. Of course, avoiding toxins overburden of them to begin with, the metabolites that we have from cells doing the most important thing that you hear study. Jim, thank you for sharing your over in my clinical practice with the residents that live at Marama that people on all the cylinders cognitively. It can intervention. And wearing a CPAP, as you everybody wants to do it, but making right device, it can be expensive, it can put in the effort because it can be so, so my wife feels like it's like incredibly prioritizing sleep, my most important, And these are great. So you went through a sleep, and I had a question about continue. Yeah, those structures actually, but all making sure your blood vessels are brain injury is avoiding traumatic brain the head with the baseball bat is going to to, that inflammation can trigger the So activities and engagement, this is so meaning, stress is one of these things, not too little. We need purpose and recommend doing things that are fun. time? You know, even if it was in your patient and she and her husband, they hit having the most fun? And she said, in my she got another horse. She decided to get shows and she created this whole, there loved and caring for the animals that she that it came with that and the community horses. And she loved it and she was and her husband was super supportive. Now, right? But there are these things that, haven't done that in years. So going back get away with from us when we're with you know, looking to achieve the most that that we really enjoy start to fall through that back as we age is I think a really meaning. But it also might be through this is caregivers who are under a emotionally, financially, this kind of for themselves, eat well, exercise. That with dementia increases your risk of later in life by anywhere from two and a bringing this up because we don't often important part, you know, of Alzheimer's those for those listening that have supporting on how to build and maintain a that both sides don't burn out. Are you forgetfulness and longing for greater special invitation for you to watch my training where you'll discover the secrets information, details, experiences, without notes, and remembering names, mental achiever. You'll also discover 10 brain. So don't miss out on this life button or go to gymquick.com forward slash component. You mentioned there's 11 United States today, and you might be one of my first recommendations that's non continuous hours a week to yourself, where talk about dementia, you care for activities, you talk to your friends, and that's important for a couple of reasons. vessel, right? If you are depleted, you number two is because it's so a desperate situation where they haven't is not a one person job. This is a mold, not a 40-hour week thing. This is not an -hour day, seven days a week, for many, I kids, I know that my five-year-old is When you have a family member, a loved one if this is going to last five years, or 10 soon it's going to get worse and when inevitably, you know, even if we can get we can't avoid aging. There is decline someone in that position requires effort having another person to help who knows dislikes and preferences and what their and you want to get that before you think to come up and you're going to need it, of like, I'm the only one that can take that knows them well enough, but it is so because I've seen too many people where issue, or they get called away to help care for their loved one with dementia, is definitely not going to know and care somebody who's trained well, so getting important, and then doing everything with wrote reversing Alzheimer's came out of are thinking about an organic ketogenic it for you too. Get into that together. If get one for you too. If you're thinking you create an activity for them where you time? Make sure that you're applying this that's good, because I feel like a lot of saying this, they feel seen, because often of challenges, again, their full focus is person that they, you know, were chartered this is your giving people permission to together is also that, because you talk you talk about sleep, is that also that is, which is so very vital. Yeah, and you caregiver, right? You, you need to have potentially, you're not left with nothing. When you, when you lose that sense of you want to have more than not going on to that we could talk about for caregivers, we're caring for someone, whether it's a really tempting to say, like, hey, you got had breakfast with my mom this morning, easy to be like, no, no, you didn't. But start to meet them where they are, when, breakfast with mom and describe it and texture? Where did you sit? And what did of correct, when you do connect instead of into a rest, digest, and heal state. So or grieving their mom again, you can put their senses and you're curious, you're And that just allows for a totally system, both as a caregiver and as a I love that. And that could be a mantra just just being a human with with human getting your book and visiting your your all the links in the show notes always at summarize the conversation, how the find out more. What would you say are, things people should discuss with their putting together a treatment or prevention have we thoroughly evaluated all of my Alzheimer's or dementia? That is number you are considering looking at memory care whatever the sequence is for your loved really important to ask, whoever you're healthy diet? Do you have brain engaging equipment and exercise classes available environment set up like? Is it is it easy that it's easy to socialize? Touring and facilities know, these communities know value a brain engaging environment, diet, one. That will shift what they make a shift in responsibility. As we age, it's about having happy hour and our outdated. It's about taking responsibility care system is not going to do it for us. to age and so taking that responsibility show up and engage with my friends. I need need to eat well. Those things are our a shift from like, okay, I'm going to kick pill that I can take. My doctor will tell and health care will take care of me. I the case. We can't wait on a miracle drug. our own health is now. I love it. I thinking about activity, avoiding current I like the walk and talk. I love. I'm new course, I've had martial arts every -to where I can put my mind into my your brain grooves, and table tennis is conference. The next one will be March in the past. We've set up all these ping breaks, socialize and engage, but also get play any racket sports yourself? I have you've ever met. Do not pick me for your together. But it's so fun still. Even great time and it's what my brain needs. challenging for us helps to expand and in the area of our brain that potentially if you struggle with math, lean into the lean into the language. That's where you bicep curls for that part of your brain. events. They're always so fun and International Women's Day. And so we're amazing female speakers and presenters, brain and change their life and change to you for hours and I just want to thank it's very clear from our conversation, I much hope for those who are facing one who's going through that. And with the prevent but potentially even reverse those you're doing. We'll definitely send you benefit. How do people stay in touch with is felt S-A-N-D-I-S-O-N. And you can sign constantly sharing about the newest caregivers, for those suffering with prevent it altogether. We've got lots of join our list there. It's amazing. We'll include also, you know, your clinic, your can find us once there's a media. DrHeatherSanderson on Facebook. Yeah, if interwebs. Perfect. And I highly recommend get a copy of the book reversing sold. So thank you so much again, Heather, where we can be together for our annual Limitless Live and we're going to have a out, you know, more ways to fuel your You know where we post also the extended listening to this on audio, on Spotify or minutes so you can binge listen. But this put the extended version on our YouTube follow DrSanderson on Instagram and other Quick. And make sure you hit the subscribe episode with your thoughts. And so this is time. Remember to be limitless.