Today, we go to Monaco. The playground of the rich and famous. And home to our restaurant for today, Le Louis XV. It's located inside the Hotel de Paris in the entertainment district of Monte Carlo. The hotel opened in 1864 and has been entertaining guests They have every service under the sun. They will even pick you up at a nearby airport with a helicopter for 1500 Euros. The casino is also world-famous. You might recognize it from films Le Louis takes fine dining to a new level. It is named after King Louis the 15th of France who was known for his love of food and luxury. They spared no expense and Everything is dripping in luxury. The fresco on the ceiling, the Plus the view of the sea. And downstairs, there are 4 The cooking style is classic French So who is Alain Ducasse? He was born in 1956 in France. He got his education in culinary arts, and at age 24 was awarded his first Michelin star. He was well on his way. Then, in 1984, a disaster He was on a private jet with some members They hit a patch of bad weather and Ducasse was the sole survivor. He was badly injured, but he was alive. From his hospital bed, he went back to work. Creating recipes, writing menus, He was unstoppable. In 1986, the Prince of Monaco Head chef at his brand new restaurant Le Louis the 15th But the position came with a challenge. Get 3 Michelin stars within 4 years. It took him just 33 months. Today, Ducasse is the 2nd most decorated He seems to have done it all. Including a special menu for Making him one chef who's cooking We step in the door and wow. Take your breath away. The space is absolutely huge. Now I know why it's called Le Louis. It was designed for a king. I have to say, I've been here before. In 2019. And was not for me. It was a bit boring and old-fashioned. We are greeted warmly and shown to our table. The champagne trolley comes around I go for a glass of Bereche and Sons. We decide on the 6 course The first thing to the table was They were super crunchy with a nutty flavor. I really liked it. Our appetiser shows us the The amuse bouche is lightly smoked sashimi from 4 different fish caught fresh that day. The service is dramatic. Everyone and everything is treated as if Here you can experience what The first course is shrimp with They say "if you're going to The chefs at Le Louis were listening. It's a tremendous opening course. Our next course is Zebra squash with sea anemone. Anemone are also known as the flowers of the sea. But they are most famous as who are immune to their poisonous tentacles. The cooking process makes them safe for us to eat. They have an intense seafood The eating tools here are playful, Our next course is blue lobster over a woodfire The sweet, smoky flavor is One of my favorites of the day. Suddenly we are invited to tour the kitchen. It is massive and buzzing with excitement. We get to meet Chef Emmanuelle Pilon. He is super friendly and generous with his time. He puts the final touches on our next course. Cuttlefish sliced razor thin with This dish has rich, complex flavors and we eat right there in the kitchen. It feels spontaneous, but I'm We get back for our main course. Veal with green cabbage, The veal is free-range, ultra-tender They find a beautiful balance of The pre-dessert is a green apple and mint granita. It's a frozen dessert from Italy No meal would be complete Of course, these are some of the best It's always nice to make your own selection. The next dish looks delicious It's actually rose petal-infused Royal treatment once again. We tried two desserts. One is a rum baba, with a choice of rum. I love the dramatic presentation. The other is pear in three ways. Slices, in a souffle and a sorbet. Irresistible. After the meal, we go out to the terrace, to enjoy the sights and sounds of Monte Carlo at night. The waiter was so kind to bring the petit fours out to us. It was a perfect end to a delightful experience. For the drinks, the wine menu is huge. Remember, they have four hundred thousand bottles. I let the sommelier do his job and With the sashimi, a lovely chardonnay, a premier cru from With the squash and sea anemone, an another wonderful chardonnay, With the lobster, a nice pinot from 2016. With the main coure, A Carignon from the South of The sommelier was highly skilled and the At the end of the day, the And now my final thoughts The design is unreal. It's a palace of pure luxury. The walls, the ceiling. All the special utencils. I love it. The service was great. They really know how to make you feel important. I liked the perfect mirror service. Elegant and professional but kind and generous. I had a great meal. Since my last visit, the kitchen has They have kept the traditional Like the fermented vegetables and the sashimi. Beside the chef, I would like the headwaiter. He was like a conductor, It must be challenging to maintain For me, Le Louis the 15th redeemed itself today. Here you can experience what it's like to be king. Thank you for joining me If you like this video, hit the subscribe button See you next time