Here's a quick one while we're all locked down and disability...because while I agree that a few gags...the way monsters university looks at movie something special--at least to me. Because write about disability, my favorite of which being I'm also not a big fan of the message, &quot;your people!&quot; Toy Story 4 provides a good example toys all share a very real fear of being broken, anymore. Wheezy: &quot;What's the point of prolonging here...to there.&quot; When toys work any other way they have to be fixed by the end of the film fourth movie goes, &quot;Hey...maybe that's not the us Duke Kaboom, a toy who came out of the box ends the movie by performing an even cooler jump. a voice box. To show that you don't have to be the movie...gives Gabby a voice box, which would and plays a crucial role in helping her find you be my friend?&quot; GIRL: &quot;I'll help you.&quot; But I though. When she breaks her arm, Woody flips out about being forgotten or thrown away. Bo meanwhile way as another Bo Peep's might; who cares? That's characters aren't treated as any worse or better that's all. But for Duke Kaboom and Gabby Gabby, are treated as a problem to be solved. They still the commercial, &quot;correct&quot; versions of themselves &quot;That's a good message, to tell differently-abled abled kids do...maybe even better because as a the box and do things differently!&quot; I agree: these kids stories to have downer endings where they were &quot;made to do&quot; or whatever. I want Dory to with all her disabled fish friends. I want Duke the time the stories that celebrate disability as tend to rub me the wrong way. There's this an Oscar last year called Henrietta Bukowski about a plane. Everyone tells her she needs to give up but in the end her kyphosis turns out to have which erupt from her back and finally allow her secretly beautiful or even freeing when really, and there's nothing beautiful about 13-year-old homework when all her friends had finished hours be sitting alone at lunch because she hadn't There's nothing beautiful about the realization built to accommodate people like you. Having a more beautiful than anybody else: it means I have to do things other people can't, like become a means I'm in a marathon with a ball and chain cuff pointed out to them, don't want to acknowledge to cast that race in an inspirational light, or doesn't lift me up. It honestly makes me feel what if Duke Kaboom CAN'T do that 40-foot jump? supposed to? Does that make those toys somehow shows HAVE to address by any means; &quot;you can people could do cool stuff too&quot; are good messages. though. That's what makes it so special to me: their whole life to achieve a dream, and then of their own but because of how they were born. and uniquely him and better than anybody else. He midway through his jump...And it still manages to be a professional scarer, but he's told he'll scary. Mike's conflict always circles back to bars him from certain careers. It's very easy you're neurodiverse or disabled and you watch this Because of the way he was born he has to work even seem to have to try. While other students never achieve his dreams over and over and over and because of that lack of support Mike has this to work, I'm gonna need you to take deep, down.&quot; ART: &quot;Done.&quot; MIKE: &quot;From now on please.&quot; MIKE: &quot;I will tell you exactly what to that's bound to resonate with a lot of disabled or anyone!&quot; DEAN HARDSCRABBLE: &quot;Do you think he's team!&quot; HARDSCRABBLE: &quot;Do you think he's SCARY?&quot; and become a pro scarer. He gets accepted to students taunt him endlessly about how he'll boys; you're never gonna be real scarers, because school scare games and shows everyone he can do Sulley rigged the test to help Mike win, and his skills on a bunch of real kids...they aren't but he still can't change the fact that at the end They weren't scared of me. I did everything thought...I thought if I wanted it ENOUGH, I is something special.&quot; So Mike packs his bags and because he couldn't achieve his dream, he's a don't know a single scarer who can do what you I'm the one running the show. But the truth is, YOU made the deal with Hardscrabble; YOU took did was catch a pig!&quot; MIKE: &quot;Technically I caught just 'OKAY?' You pulled off the biggest scare this SULLEY: &quot;That WAS you! You think I could have done the first day of school! Mike, you're not scary. that's what sustains this film's hopeful tone: fail to achieve your dream, that doesn't make you does go on to do something very LIKE his original able to make that dream a reality for himself, but one that allowed him access to many of the things only that, but Monsters University encourages I said before, Mike has been taught that he can He has to learn how to be part of a team, and University even takes the time to point out that was born with the ability to do the thing you have probably not as confident as he lets on. It's don't seem to need to study or even work that hard disorders. They didn't develop good work habits start to struggle...they don't know what to do. because that's how they've defined themselves for You don't have to be GOOD. You could mess up you!&quot; SULLEY: &quot;Mike.&quot; MIKE: &quot;You'll never know Sullivan!&quot; SULLEY: &quot;Yeah, I'm a Sullivan. I'm the kicked out of the program; the one who was so remember at art school as I struggled not to break always these kids who would show up to critique resented them, because they seemed to represent tried. It was only years later that I started to out of their minds. I think I might have met naturally gifted person. Everybody else who turned horrible anxiety. SULLEY: &quot;Mike, I'll never know here. I act scary, Mike. But most of the time? University tells kids they're not alone--even the scared out of their minds. It's okay to ask for that jump! You can find fulfillment in a career about as a little kid, and none of that makes you deal with the reality that...yeah. Sometimes a disability. Sometimes having a disability isn't special that Monsters University found a way to ending is framed in a triumphant way, even though track to finding a career he loves, and he's not you gave this movie a pass when it first came out, and otherwise pretty...fine. Good...outside film a shot. A huge thank you to my patrons! are the best. If you, kind of viewer, would also you can also get videos early when you donate to y'all! You can't always do you set your mind