An airfield near Atlanta. Emergency on a special mission. "This is a medical evacuation - we A mission to retrieve US citizen Otto months earlier. A prisoner of War-mongering between Kim Jong-un "They will be met with fire and fury A silent mission - on "We will not to use South Korea, China Days later Otto Warmbier is back home. Severe brain damage, says the coroner. Was it torture? Warmbier's parents become pawns in a who announces that the North Korean "All I can do is shake my head, right. When the State Department sends North Korea, his plane of choice is Air, often evacuates Ebola patients. insists on the best plane He doesn't even tell his "I didn't tell them where I've been it has become more and more apparent them I was going to Korea to pick up a At Phoenix Air's headquarters, a Thompson has to solve The plane will not be allowed "Currently there are certain sanctions government and the North Korean anything we would have which we simply didn't On the morning of June 10th, 2017, on its mission. Flueckiger is joined Department representatives. and Alaska, their flight takes to northern Japan - and The outskirts of Cincinnati, Ohio. Otto Warmbier grew up here, At first, his parents don't They aren't seeking the spotlight. neighborhoods. Otto Warmbier's Otto, the oldest of three children, and his high school. At graduation His future is mapped out: College in semester abroad in Hong Kong. First, He books through a Chinese travel "destinations your mother would He joins an international "He's left a mark on me. I spoke to a lot of people Every year the agency touts their The alcohol flows freely; the guides Nights are long at Pyonyang's Otto's group has fun, too. It isn't challenge of the forbidden 5th floor, It is the staff's floor. With The hotel's surveillance Tourists are usually just admonished. This New Year's Eve, however, the a poster from the wall. And it is, according to Instead of leaving North Korea on "He simply had a tap on the shoulder. I laughingly said to him: 'That is [...] But of course there was We didn't know what would happen, but Two months later North televises a staged confession. "I entirely beg you people and for your forgiveness. I've made the worst mistake [...] I should never allow myself to to commit a crime in this country." A show trial with obviously Perhaps in exchange for a pardon. 16 days later Warmbier discovers He is sentenced to 15 years of hard His condition from this Shortly before takeoff, Dr. the few details known about "I had one small written note, one he was in a coma at a Pyongyang I knew except that he's been Was Flueckiger worried about the "I think I had felt that the the US had been bad for a while. And bring Warmbier back then there'd been In fact, North Korea's sudden negotiators. Mickey Since Warmbier's arrest, he had with the help of UN contacts. Bergman works together with Bill Mexico and former US ambassador to experienced in dealing with "In general the only available direct that represent North Korea The individuals are people that they know me from before. But at the end of the day And if you want to get to a deal, when you have to be there in person. So get ourselves Invited to North Korea? to the people who can make "It was different, you knew that was considered something special. he was an attractive young men, You knew this one was special from North Korea. The trial, where he was very upset and And you knew that this was a very North Korea-relations. So, the North use him as a bargaining chip to get They always use political They want something in return." "Would that be typical that US inmates "The North Koreas are very and their prisons Sometimes they make this political so labor is involved. Do I don't have any evidence they do. I think where the North Koreans fall of counselor visits. Sometimes It depends on the price of They want to dramatize Insiders call these contacts between people like Richards the "New York the only connection between Here, at the Palm Restaurant, it is meetings that take Mickey Bergman believes he's He is told to come to Pyongyang. "We got an invitation. I went there I did have the fantasy in my mind, Swedish diplomats also pressure diplomats in Oslo. But "I was told: Look don't be disparaged. that it takes a housand hacks to bring I hope I don't need However more times and all to get The Kim regime seems to buy time, Kim won't negotiate until he feels At the UN general assembly North threats and the insults made by "Rocket man is on a suicide mission North Korea is still studying Waiting for new insights. "The Obama administration and North The policy was strategic patience The North Koreans? they weren't And they saw the new administration, we're ready to deal. And closest thing to a concession." But what convinced Pyongyang to be evacuated? Does the regime Or is Warmbier already so weak that their prisoner? Flueckiger asks Until his crew suffers When they reach Sapporo that The flight control center doesn't The plane is grounded. "They told me that the because there was no did not want to let us fly They would have to send us to another did have relationship with. And then "I called back up to the US department person on the phone. And I said: Here intercede and resolve After night-time crisis calls Japan's prime minister The next morning Flueckiger's plane to Pyongang - a flight route "When the plane was east of the North the Japanese air traffic we are now terminating service, have a nice day. And then The Pyongyang airport Hours later on the ground Flueckiger's Warmbier has been "We were dropped of at the front door a hallway upstairs and when we and four nurses. One was the chief of doctor who had been charge of Otto's been in the hospital. They said: You can examine Otto. My first impression was: He is not in open. He was not responsive but he was reactive The doctors and nurses Flueckiger examines Warmbier. "It was a standard physical exam. I checked his eyes, pupils, did a I had what I felt was enough time to questions. They said: Let's go out. Finish your exam, then "You must have had also on your mind: what happened to make him fall "Yeah right, absolutely." "What did you think?" "Well, the North Koreans had One was botulism poisoning They said he had eaten a pork and could have had botulism poisoning but it wouldn't happen quickly in The other was that they had given him because he was very And that either he had a bad They said that themselves." "Did you have the feeling the doctors "I certainly was looking for a signs And what I concluded was that I I had the feeling they were It didn't seem that they And we examined his skin and found After hospitalization of that So that to me indicated that he Yeah, it's an indicator." "Did you have in mind the was that something that "The whole time we were there." Since Warmbier's parents won't talk been open with. A two-hour's drive The Warmbiers had turned A former diplomat with We discuss what 'strategic patience' remain silent to keep from "During many, many hours of rather the phone, I began to hear And I pushed back against it. And were efforts being made - not civilians but people in government. something was different about the way And it made the normal diplomatic work with the North Koreans - The Warmbiers have stopped talking goes by with no sign of Nobody knows that in faraway North prisoner of war, with Following Trump's inauguration, And accuse the Obama administration of Secretary of State John They confide in Trump's favorite their host's ongoing partisan - "Now John Kerry was secretary of - "We met him." - "And what was the outcome of that?" - "A nice guy, nice person?" - "Did he help - &quot;totally exasperated and overwhelmed - Did he help you in any way?" - "No, absolutely not." - "Did anyone in the State - "No, no, absolutely not." - "The first thing after I got the departments blog on North Korea? - "Wait someone from the State you two for the kidnapping and That was the message from - "Right. They acted like we were - "They judged you and blamed you for Korean government. Like it was your reached out for the US government for - "Yes. And they asked It's better for - "Yeah, better for the bureaucrats doing when nobody talks about it. Do department? For Secretary Tillerson? - "Sure. I'd like to work He can make a difference It may be disrespectful to ask for Bring my son home. You can - "I pray that this resolves. "One thing I know for sure, I have That's something that I was talking to that those things take time. It doesn't mean that you need to sit is doing everything for it, has complex sets of interests. and on average in North Korea, it's And in all the scenarios that I've worked on it for 18 month - I always Otto does come home. And I had never of what actually ended up happening." "What upset me was that it took them a They never told us that. The North didn't know either he was in a coma. a young man, Otto - by the security with each other. This is a Only the top eschelon knows what's the information within The North Korean doctors hand over Dr. Flueckiger. He writes a report. "The door opens and here comes He goes to that same spot I was in and hearing to commute Otto He was still a prisoner and had And then at that point they brought they wanted us to go through it We said: Just give us his passport, On June 13th, 2017, Otto Warmbier "The vibrations and the noise of the and it made him stiffen up almost We gave small doses of standard said, talked to each other about how Do we want him to be fully awake or do We decided he should Flueckiger's crew flies home via their administration's claims of "At the presidents direction the the release of Otto He is on his way home to be "We began to talk with the ground International and they said: the media And it was getting out of control. And that we change the arrival airport to Lunken Regional Airport." Warmbier's parents and his two younger The rescue team decides to give "We all understood what a terrible We escorted them to the plane. Fifteen had given him another dose of the The minute the parents got up there It was my impression and the nurses' recognized his parents' voices. I woke up and was kind of in that Fred Warmbier later "I knelt down by his And I told him I missed him and Since the airport doesn't have the carried from the plane, while his be the last public photograph "She and I firmly believe that he that the North Koreans order to return to the family But the hope that he "He shows no signs of responding to verbal commands or A week later, the family gives up. They have all life support systems Fred and Cindy Warmbier continue But when North Korea itself claims to another appearance on Fox News. They "Otto had a shaved head, he had a he would starring blankly into space he was deaf. As we looked at him and someone had taken a pair of pliers Within two days of Otto being home his fever He had a large scar on his right foot. They're terrorists." "They purposely and With no evidence, "Great interview. Otto was tortured Before - and also with no evidence - a York Times that "Otto had However, neither the hospital nor of torture. But what was "We have evidence that his for a length of time significant enzephalopathie. In other by lack of oxygen to the brain This is an example of what a normal example of one with changes similar that the ventricles are huge. And the shrunken, meaning that the brain was amount of time. If he was struck then he would may also have something across the brain to this side of the But what caused the brain injury? A suicide attempt? "All Including Pyongyang's "If they gave him something to sedate period of time, a long enough Her specialists also examined Their findings were inconclusive. "I can't argue with anybody that says: electrodes. It could have been, but on the skin that got infected. So there is nothing specific What remains is the allegation that twisted. Yet, the coroner says "This is an example of changes that he ondontologist looked at it as well and to those roots. And you can't pull put them in different places without If I had evidence and there was a criminal act it and would definitely Unfortunately, the evidence we particular as far as: This At first, the coroner withholds the mourning family. But in her "It felt vaguely and that I was being That I shouldn't disagree with the Efforts to get to the bottom of the countless files and articles. Much Establishing the truth would also pose Washington, where the Warmbiers With the help of government-friendly Pyongyang does not and the trial takes place And strangely enough, without appearing as witnesses. One expert witness urges the judge "I replied I do believe that this case personal tragedies suffered by the save lives. That is, deter North Korea and the judgement that The expert continues making question of Otto Warmbier's "His teeth were in perfect fine returned it was clear - at least two which is a polite way of saying He also claims that North Korea US from military action. But Washington didn't even "I can follow that they need a hostage of security or asset. But that doesn't that work? What reason do "So this is a slightly different angle North Korea intend to I don't know for sure but that does In the end, the court orders North Based, on the president's confirmation For a while, the Warmbiers publicly support to his fight against "After a shameful trial Otto of hard labour. Ottos wonderful parents Fred and Cindy with us tonight. You are powerful witnesses to a And your strength inspires us all. At some point, the North Korean leader provide the country with sufficient time studying the US President to see to get his way. And although Trump starts to praise He even exonerates Kim "I don't think that the top leadership of people, big country, lot of people. you have a lot of people. And some Some really really bad things. But he and I will take him at his word. Otto has served his purpose. Kim "He wrote me beatiful letters. The Warmbiers are shocked "Kim and his evil regime are No excuses or lavish "I had a call and talked to Fred Every now and then we talk a bit and I knew that they? that it It's hard for me to explain I am supportive of engagement I am not a fan of the high-wire work on a tactical level but when "I would hope that he wasn't trying to felt for the family and for Otto. But my buddy and? are very In New York we soon come across the official torture claim was within the Trump-administration. He received a call after citing the "I cited the New York Times story official apparently had confirmed This made the senior official And he made a point of calling me been no torture, that Otto came well cared for in the hospital that the things that you would normally I said: I'm not confirming it I'm not had said. And he said: well for the record that We ask in Washington if that's true. State Department responds by saying: When we ask for permission to his mother agrees to accompany us. Hours later, it's clear She texts us to cancel the interview. A year later we meet in Berlin. The international campaigners against "That's Otto and I. We did And that's Otto playing Football. They also show us "And that's how Otto looked when he They are plagued by more than their "That doesn't just happen. He That doesn't just happen. "A 21 year old kid who, like I eats healthy - how do you end And Flueckiger? How does he feel about and failed? Shortly after his return home to claim that the US paid North Korea two - which is later denied. And North Korea insists that "The North Koreans said they had and he died in the US. "Yes, I know. Look at that they took days. When I read that all I can "Too many lies," he says.