Is that awesome for us or what? That is good stuff. Yes, we don't have enough. People are having fun, get more done. Alright, it's hard to believe, but it's already been about a month since we were at SHARE in Kansas City. It was a phenomenal experience, all of the technical sessions, the general sessions, of course, one of which Lukas and I were a part of. But it was also a great opportunity to be on the exposition floor, to see all the booths, but especially to partake in Broadcom's special tailgating booth where we got to play games with little footballs, little bit of cornhole, even got to drink some beers. The best part was talking with a bunch of our teammates and colleagues about their experience, what they're working on, and what they think of tailgating. So let's dive in and find out more. Joel, I'm Zach. Nice to meet you, Zach. So nice to meet you. You're doing the Vitality program right now. Yeah, I am. And how far into it are you? I'm about four weeks into it, and I'm having a blast. And is this completely new to you, the mainframe space? Well, it's not. When I was in university, I did take, I actually took two classes on the mainframe, which we learned, Cobalt, Enterprise Computing. So initially, I wasn't really sure what it was about, but after I took the first Cobalt class, I really loved it. Took the second class, and I'm happy I'm here. That's fantastic. Fantastic to have had that opportunity to do a little bit of mainframe even in university. So tell us about Vitality so far. Vitality, it is intense, if I could describe it in one word. But it's intense in a good way, because I feel like this is like a preliminary introduction into what it is, learning about the mainframe. There's a lot of information coming at you really fast, and you have to be able to absorb it. And at least if you can't absorb it, you have to be able to understand what questions to ask when you feel stuck. So I really like the class because of that. And as a group, the Vitality group, we're able to help each other because a lot of the time, we all feel equally stuck together. And so we can help each other out in that way. So it's a really good environment. That's only natural, yeah. And tell us about your instructors. My instructors, well, right now, I have an instructor, James. James Hines, he's a really good guy. I mean, he is probably one of the best people I could have thought of to teach us this stuff because he's so patient. He is so open to us asking questions. He will spend 45 minutes explaining something to you if you don't understand it. And oftentimes he asks you to do that. Of course. He's a great instructor. And he goes really in-depth in explaining everything, why things are the way they are, how, like why the approach he's taking is the best approach. And it really helps us to understand the material better. So I think our instructors are amazing. I mean, they were appointed there for a reason. So it makes sense. Certainly. And is there one area which you're already kind of gravitating towards? Or, I mean, obviously you're kind of doing development with that football experience. Well, that's really all we really know right now. So far. Still on this. Yeah, I have no idea what's to come, but I'm excited for it. Hunter, how is Share treating you? Fantastic. Yeah, really good conversations, a lot of booth traffic. Everything is going great. Yeah, really interesting. Super. Have you had some sessions? I've been in attendance in a lot of sessions. Today I've got a session. Okay. And then tomorrow I've got a session. So two to go. What are you talking about? So we're going to be talking about the Open Mainframe project, specifically Open Mainframe Education, the open source education that is ahead for this next generation of mainframe learners. So that's the main topic. Excellent. Excellent. Yeah. I've seen a lot of, we have some Vitality students here and a lot of people who are quite interested in this offering. Yeah, it's exciting to see. We do have a good cohort of our Vitality residents here. You can sometimes identify them by the &quot;I am the future&quot; T-shirt. &quot;I am the future&quot; T-shirt, yes. Yeah. But they're having a great time. We're glad to see them here getting absorbed in the mainframe and learning more about the platform. Super. Now, I want to ask you about tailgating. We have all these games and this whole theme. Yeah. You also kind of look like you may have played football or some sport. Oh. So, do tell. Are you a tailgater or were you a player? I'm more of a tailgater. You're more of a tailgater? Okay. Don't let it fool you. Don't let it fool you. Yeah, this is all double cheeseburgers and beers. But, yeah. Nicely shaped cheeseburgers and beers. But, okay, fine. Yeah. Megan, how are you doing? I'm good. How are you? I'm doing pretty well. I've quite enjoyed this share conference. Obviously, I love the Broadcom tailgating booth. This was your first share? This was my first share. Yeah. Okay, nice. So, do tell us your experience so far and how this has compared to previous shares. Yeah, this has definitely been one of our biggest. I think every year we try to do something more creative or more exciting than we did before. I think we've definitely pushed our boundaries. I was going to say, you've set the bar pretty high. You've set the bar pretty high, yeah. Because it's not just about the booth. It's about the theme in general. It's the theme. It's the content. I think we've had some of the best sessions that we've had. I think the visionary talk was great. I think Greg's all conference was a lot of fun. People seemed to like to be engaged, having their little flags and things. Definitely. So, overall, it's gone really well. I mean, it's not done yet. Booth closes up today, but you guys will have your presentation tomorrow. Lunch and Learn, another one. We'll have breakfast with our DEs for our customers to get hands-on conversations for their organization solutions. So still good things in the making. And I'm pretty proud of how it's turned out. Excellent. Excellent. Peter Wasell, boss of my boss. Of course we've got to get him on camera. Peter, are you much of a tailgater? You know, I was back in the day, I suppose. Okay. What team? The New England Patriots. New England Patriots? Yes. Really? I have been a New England Patriots fan since I was a young boy. It's a good thing Greg can't hear that too. Oh, Greg has already heard that. He's already heard that. He's already giving me grief. So I grew up in New York State, and so most people wonder why I'm not a New York Giants fan. Or a Jets. Or a Jets or a Buffalo Bills. But you know, a friend of mine was a New England Patriots fan, and I joined the Cogs. Now, at that point, they sucked. That's especially weird. In any case, what excites you about the Broadcom tailgating that we've got going on here? Oh, look at the energy. I mean, there's like people playing games, like we're all here. There's a lot of conversation going on. It's great. Fantastic. And you were a part of the games today during lunch. Yes, I was. And there were some rather incriminating photos taken of you wearing goal posts. Tell us, how was it wearing goal posts? You know, I've always wanted to wear goal posts. Really? I thought, you know, if I could only wear goal posts, my life would be complete. All right. We're definitely going to cut those into the video here because it's absolutely fantastic. Well, Peter? I was going to say, I think lastly, you know, when we do something like that on stage, you got to play along. So it was a lot of fun. You got to give 100%. It was a lot of fun. Definitely. Peter, thanks for joining us. Always a pleasure. Thanks, Zach. You're clearly having fun at this Broadcom tailgating. Sure, she always have fun. Oh, of course. And you seem old hat at this. I have played a time or two, usually a little further apart. Yeah, this seems a little too easy, doesn't it? Fun. For Nick, doesn't appear anybody else. When you go tailgating, who are you supporting? So typically if it's baseball, it's the Red Sox. Okay. If it's football, I'm usually more collegiate with University of Virginia, which isn't usually the University of Virginia. Really? Is that your alma mater? Yeah, it is. Okay. We're very good at basketball. It's certainly, that's what you're known for. So what excites you about Share besides the Broadcom tailgating? So we're finally seeing that the mainframe ecosystem is coming back and is showing why we run the world to come. And people are growing. You see all the enthusiasm around. You see a lot of people from younger as well as older career paths. It's just a very diverse group. Excellent. Yeah, no, I agree completely. I mean, this is my first Share, but from what I've heard from the other folks I've been interviewing, they say that it's just changed a lot over the last couple of years, which is really exciting for the space in general. And the ecosystem is now the most important. It doesn't have to be about a vendor or a company. The ecosystem will grow, all boats will rise. It's all good. We're in a great spot. Definitely. I will let you get back because you got it. You got to beat them. All right. I don't know what the score was the other way. So how far down am I now? I'm not even sure myself. All right. I'm focused on you. Thanks so much, Jeff. Thanks again. Hey, then. Welcome to our little capturing of clips here at the great Broadcom tailgate party. Are you much of a tailgater? I used to be. You used to be. I used to be a UNC Chapel Hill. I still have season tickets for basketball and football. Oh my. But I live in Austin, not in Chapel Hill. But you still make it to some games here and there? It's been a while. It's been a while. Thank goodness for Seeky. Definitely. What excites you about Cher? I think, well, first of all, it's great to see the enthusiasm. Everybody here is a believer, they understand the real truth, you know. And it's also been great the last several years to be seeing more young people. You know, it's just not all older, getting gray haired people like me and people that are already way gray. Yeah. It's nice to see some younger folks. We were worried we were pushing the boundaries when we mentioned dinosaurs this morning. Yeah, yeah. I thought that was pretty clever, actually. Thank you. Crowd dinosaurs. Yeah, something like that. What sessions have you attended? What stood out at least in the last couple days? I've done several, but I just went to this one on the Watchtower application profiler. Yeah? Oh my God. I used to do a lot of performance work when I was a techie in small talk and C code, nonetheless. Yeah, okay. It's been a while. It's been a while. Yeah, yeah. This is killer technology. For like less than one tenth of one percent overhead, it can gather information about when something was last compiled, the version of COBOL, the optimization levels, the architecture levels. So like this example that Mario gave, this customer, we've got a loose ball there. This customer, 77 percent of their applications were using ARC 9. That's EC12 architecture. So all the advances through 13, 14, 15, 16, if I'm doing my numbers right, are not being utilized. All the new instructions. So it's tremendously good information. And then you can see, oh you've got 2,000 programs, but only two or three of them are eating up 90 percent of your CPU. So just focus on those. So anyway, I just got excited, but it's because I used to do this back when I was writing code and optimizing. So Von, cheers. What are you cooking up over here? We're cooking up a developer survey. Okay. Yep. If you're familiar with the Stack Overflow survey that they do every year. Yeah. A lot of really valuable insights. Certainly. Of course, the distributed developers kind of drown out everything else. So it's really hard to understand what are main framers thinking and what kind of tools do they want to use. So we're trying to break through that and maybe get a picture of what main frame developers think. So we're running a main frame developer survey. But. Which, I don't know if you've seen, but anyways, we have the survey run and we have some results here. I don't know if there's an easy way to get that QR code. But anyway, even though the results still dramatically skew towards the distributed, we actually offer a lot of things from the distributed point of view. Yeah, we sure do. We sure do. But this is like going beyond, I mean, obviously a big topic of that survey was tools, but you know, some of the things that were really interesting about that survey and the results is the level of satisfaction main frame developers have. And I mean, I'm not surprised to be honest. You can see all over share the passion that the developers have for the platform. And we all know that the job security and mainframe is second to none. Right. Exactly. We're hiring. Definitely. Mr. Kaplan, cheers. What a great share conference we're having. Wouldn't you say so? Mostly because of you guys. Oh my gosh. You absolutely killed it today. Represented Broadcom in the best way. I am so humbled and thank you to both of you. Thank you for the praise, but we have to thank you for giving us the opportunity and also give you a little praise because behind the scenes, there are a lot of people that really make share tick. And this guy is one of those fellows. So there've been some amazing lunch and learns with it games and trivia and everything else. And John, you helped put a lot of that together. I was part of a team that led that work and I'm happy that you recognize what goes into it because it's months of work and a lot of experts involved that we wrangled together to make other people do some cool stuff. And I think Broadcom puts together a great part of share. Nakeetha, how are you doing? I'm doing great. You enjoying share? This is my first time at share. I'm already loving it. It's a lot of fun, isn't it? It is a lot of fun. So in this great tailgating section for Broadcom, you're over here at the Beyond Code offering. So tell us a little bit about what you work on and represent. I am the offering manager for mainframe expert program, which is one of the new additions to the Beyond Code offerings. We have been very successful so far. It has been launched in 2024 and we will be going big in 2025. Excellent. And this is where we kind of pair certain engineers, architects from Broadcom to help with customer sites. Yes. So these people, the mainframe experts will be placed at the customer's side, working to accomplish or fulfill the strategic goals of the customer. Which is a value add and we are looking for great partnership with the customer. Definitely. And so if I'm a customer and I want to take advantage of an expert, what's the process? It's very simple. We're making the process very simple. You can do it during the renewal of the product or we can do a simple as a W signature is required and we will take care of the rest. All the organization. Wow. Yeah. So easy. So easy. That's fantastic. Yeah. Earl. Yes. So nice to talk with you. Definitely. So you were just telling me that today during the lunch and learn, they just sprang that upon you. You're going to talk in front of everybody. Absolutely. Yesterday. I got the questions at three o'clock yesterday. So you know what? You just go with the flow at these things. You go with the flow. So just to clarify, we had a little bit of a competition lunch and learn today. There were three teams. Earl was on the victorious red team. Let's not talk about the football thing though. I was going to say, yeah, how's your relationship with throwing these? Not very good. Okay. Well, we'll leave it at that. But what is your official role in Broadcom? The Broadcom Vitality Tech lead. So one of the things I do as part of my job is make sure the content for our students is at the level that they need so they can learn the mainframe from the basics to the intermediate to the advanced skills. And this is a pretty tricky thing, right? Because the students coming to the Vitality program have a wide background, a variety of backgrounds. Yes. Some have zero experience. But if you get the right people that have the right aptitude to learn mainframe, you can make anyone a mainframe. Definitely. We have an engineer that came through the Vitality program, was a French teacher. Really? Yes. That was what her degree was in. And she did so well that the ACF2 team wanted her on board. And now she's actually teaching ACF2 for Vitality and doing sessions at Share on ACF2 pass tickets. That's fantastic. And she's only been out of the program for about two years. Wow. Wow. I mean, it just goes to show that with the right people, the right organization and training, anybody can join this great platform. Absolutely. Absolutely. And you must be kind of a master coordinator as well, because as I understand it, you're pulling in people from all parts of the org in order to contribute. I don't know how much you asked this guy to help, but he provides the comedic element, doesn't he? He does. And he always messes with me when I'm talking. Got to keep you on your toes, right? Absolutely. Earl, thanks so much for joining us. Thank you. Enjoy the rest of the show. I was coming to look for you guys. You were? Well, we caught you. Absolutely. Vikas, welcome. Tell us, how are you enjoying the Broadcom tailgating? Oh my God. This is party of a lifetime. It's been so good to see all the game day excitement, customers coming in, all the game shows that are going on, the play that we're doing. It's wonderful. And it really presents the excitement that we have in Broadcom on a day-to-day basis. It's very bringing that to life with the Kansas, you know, the Super Bowl winners, that team. Yeah, we're in the right place to celebrate this. At the right time, the right year, and this is the way we show it off. Absolutely. And for anybody, any of your listeners on the podcast, this is not a one-day thing. You're seeing that in a game team right now. But, look, you know, come to our office, show up at any site, whether it's Pittsburgh, Lyles, Prague, Plano, you're going to see that same excitement every single day. Definitely. Everybody's bringing passion to what they do. That's what makes us a very different company. Now, I've been asking people, tailgating proper, have you done any tailgating yourself? I'm not a guy who's big into sports. Okay. But look at that catch. Okay, okay. I grew up watching and playing cricket. Okay. And tailgating isn't one of those things that goes with cricket. But there's pretty serious fandom within the cricket world. Absolutely. Die hard. Die hard, yeah. Absolutely. So, okay, so you got those strong feelings. Definitely. You just don't quite have the games. But look at you with the catch of the football. You're a natural. Excellent. Thank you so much for sharing your thoughts on this. Thanks a lot for being the evangelist, for spreading the words. Thank you. Our pleasure. What can I do for you? One of my favorite people that I don't get to see nearly often enough, Rose Sankich. How are you? I'm great. How is Cher treating you? Awesome. You're getting roped into way too many sessions like usual? Yes, I'm getting roped in, but you know, it's all good. And what's the session you're most excited to present on or have already presented on? Well, you know, we presented a panel session today called Let's Talk Zoe. Yes. We had some customers, actual end users who are not vendors that use Zoe and shared their experience with an amazing audience of about 70 people. That's fantastic. Yeah, it was incredible. And do you think people really walked away thinking Zoe's something I got to try out? I imagine so. I think many in the room had some experience with it anyway. Yeah. But I think there was enough excitement generated by those customers to encourage folks who had only experimented to maybe take it to that next level. That's excellent. Yeah. And was this also the session where you had some kind of newer developers in the mainframe space or is that another session that's yet to come? You know, typically at Share we don't find that developers. This is technologists, systems programmers. I just talked to a couple of capacity planners from Insono. Very excited to be working on mainframe, indicated that they're getting more and more clients that are interested in having them manage their mainframe. And what's really cool, I asked this specifically. Are you finding that your clients need more capacity? And they said yes. Is that awesome for us or what? That's super. Definitely. Now I know one of the upcoming sessions is about Zoe V3. Yes. That's tomorrow. That's tomorrow. Yeah. And it's just kind of incredible to be saying Zoe V3 already. Right? Zoe has just come so far and it's really just kind of a central part of the platform for a lot of people now. I think so. I mean, we started with imagining that it would start to get some traction in the market and year over year we've seen more people attend our sessions. We've seen, here's another indication. We gave two sessions yesterday that were intermediate Zoe sessions, right? Not about what is Zoe. It was more about how do you manage Zoe? How do you troubleshoot Zoe? How do you configure Zoe for high availability? More sophisticated Zoe. Those sessions were really well attended. That's super. It's incredible. And it's just indicative of how much investment so many people are giving to that space now. Right? I was talking to actually Billy from IBM because I worked with her years ago and it's just incredible how far the project has come since then. And she was also pointing out people are really moving up and it's really kind of widening the scope of its use. It's absolutely incredible. And it's wonderful to be able to say that we work hand in hand with big mainframe vendors as partners, as teammates, as people. It's a wonderful community. It really is. One thing I've been asking everybody, are you much of a tailgater? I'm really not. No? No. I mean, I'm happy to party if there's a party. But I can't say that I tailgate because I don't attend a lot of sports events. Okay. But you're in for a good party and we're in a great spot for one right now. Yes. Rose, thanks so much for talking with us. Always a pleasure. Great. Hey, sir. Good to see you. Good to see you. I see you finally get to play some games. I did. They didn't allow you on stage, right? They wouldn't. They were worried I was going to beat everybody. They didn't want to help anyone. Well, indeed, you showed the natural talent that you are. Better lucky than good as long as you have consistently good luck. Indeed. Indeed. Indeed. So, Steelers fan. Yeah. Just proximity? No, not proximity. You were living on Long Island. You were living on Long Island. Kids, I didn't like the Cowboys. And it was the era of Cowboys, Steelers, Broncos, although they would never win, but they would make it there. Okay. So I hopped on the other side. Better lucky than good. Oh, definitely. Definitely. So, tell us, I mean, this football theme, it seems like people are really enjoying themselves. We're grilling up a lot of interesting things about the different areas. I found it. You should turn that camera around and show them that we're cooking laptops. We're cooking laptops, right? And I think that's indicative of the mainframe world. The amount of processing and transactions we put through on the mainframe would just fry a laptop. A laptop. It might even barbecue. We actually, so it's funny. You said we've got this whole football theme. You know, there really isn't a football theme. It's a tailgate party. Tailgate party. I care about the game. We just want to have fun. We want to have fun. We want the party before, the party during, and the party after. What other sessions do you have this week? Are you observing now? Are you kind of free from duties? This is my wind down, right? So I did the vendor session at lunch on Monday. I was there to cheer you guys on for what's up mainframe. You were stellar. Fabulous. Thank you so much. You made it fun. You're good guys. You can relate to the folks. It was awesome. And then today we had the all conference lunch. Which was fantastic. And then I ended up meeting with the board and now I just do some dinners. Perfect. Yeah. Are you going to attend some sessions randomly as well? I'm actually flying out in the morning. Oh, you're flying out. Okay. Yeah. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. I'm going to be in the morning as well. Take care out there. [music] [music] (upbeat music)