- We're going to look at 10 of the most respected This is like a free mini course. What I've done is taken a I've already posted, I'm to put these different models so that you can see the development, the arc in roughly chronological order. And here's what we'll cover. Number one, the traits two, leadership styles, which include the democratic, autocratic and laissez Faire styles. Three, the behavioral or that look at both task Four, the situational Five, transactional, six, transformational and seven, the charismatic Eight, the vertical dyad linkage model. Nine, leader member exchange theory, and 10, servant leadership. I won't cover all theories but these are 10 highly Before we jump in, I have The first is a PDF download that will help you become a The second is a PDF download on the top five essential for professionals, and third, of my online classes at the there's always at least one I put links to those three resources in the description below. Now let's jump right in and the trait approach to leadership. We are going to talk about the This is a valuable approach but it's not without its (energetic upbeat music) Hello there friends, I'm Alex Lyon, and we have almost 200 and leadership on this channel. Virtually everything I'm going from two excellent books, on Leadership, A Communication Perspective and Peter Northouse's book on Leadership. I highly recommend both of these books and I will put those references and links in the description The study of leadership traits goes back to the early 1900s, it's of leadership and it The social scientific approach was happening in the field that was looking at individuals A trait is a defining or enduring tendency of a person. Or according to this of how we're born, they're just like eye color, heights We also have various personality traits. The traits theory of leadership says that, &quot;Leaders share a collection that the average person does not.&quot; Those traits make natural born leaders, this is what we call or great person theory. Northouse lists well-known such as Catherine, the great Joan of Arc, Napoleon Bonaparte There are certain traits that contribute to superior leadership everybody around these or perceives certain traits There have been scores of these to mention that each study of traits that leaders possess. So this can get a little confusing. So one way to overcome that that looks across these to determine the most common traits that come up over and over again. So we are going to look of the five major leadership traits that Peter Northouse presents in his book. The first trait is intelligence, leaders have a higher intelligence It's accurate to say, for of the US for all their personal flaws were extremely intelligent leaders. They were well-educated CEOs like Steve Jobs from Apple, and Mark Zuckerberg from Facebook, all have reputations as Some people believe that of intelligence like for some individuals to with the average person, still high levels of intelligence as a trait among most leaders. The second trait is self-confidence, as Northouse explains a certainty about our high levels of self-esteem in our capacity to make a difference. Barack Obama is a great of self-confidence. It's clear from everything that he carries himself with a great deal of this self-confidence, he communicates a sense of Third is determination. This is a strong drive to move forward. It's initiative, persistence, perseverance to follow through One of the most determined is Oprah Winfrey. She was born into poverty, started working in radio she overcame both racial as she moved from local TV And she built ultimately a media empire, and she's now believed to be the richest person in Hollywood. Her journey demonstrates and the ability to overcome The fourth trait is integrity. This means being honest, of principles and taking We like these leaders and we know they're going to do and follow through on what they say. Two well-known leaders come to mind. First is Martin Luther King, Jr. He is seen by many as a great example of a leader with integrity. He lived by a set of to a high standard. Another example is Abraham Lincoln, he is known as &quot;Honest at the time saw him and of integrity than many of the Fifth is sociability, this in friendly, courteous, and Leaders like this are tactful, to other's needs and well-being. In other words they have These leaders both of supportive communication One great example is she's compared to the other royals, she had the people's touch they say. She communicated comfortably with people from all backgrounds. Another example is Warren Buffet, he is the fourth richest but he has a very comfortable, welcoming communication about the importance of communication. So those are the five However, as mentioned, there of the traits approach to leadership. These three criticisms of what I have read and First, almost every study that looks at leadership traits comes So sure we talked about a but that doesn't explain why between and among these studies. So how can we be sure we got it right. Second, I'm not convinced are all really studying traits We see within these studies to influence others or some of these sound more than traits in our DNA And third, some people say they can act as if they have the trait but they're really just behaving that way, they don't necessarily possess that trait. I know many people who admit privately that they're very nervous but publicly they act like that's one of the five key traits. Despite these criticisms, on leadership traits will continue. Many people would agree that to stand apart even from an early age. Some people really do come So question of the day, how do you line up with these five key traits? As mentioned it seems at are learnable and there've and current day leaders who but work their way up and So maybe it's a little some are born great, and some have greatness thrust upon them. Hello, again, if you haven't feel free to do so now and ring the bell so you get notifications And remember to also look at in the description below this video. Now let's get back into and look at the three (soft upbeat music) Have you ever worked for Or even more importantly, do you have an autocratic Let's look at the ins and outs. Foundational leadership Lewin Lippitt and White in the Journal of Social Psychology. That many researchers still that kicked off this area of research. Lewin and his coauthors asked &quot;Is not the democratic but authoritarianism more efficient?&quot; People then and now have a lot of opinions about the different styles of leadership. Lewin and his coauthors set out to get some research driven We'll look at more of To help visualize it, there are some well-known like Darth Vader from and the Band of Brothers in the Devil Wears Prada These are obviously exaggerations, but they all have autocratic A basic description of the It is an authoritarian, to leadership and management. The term autocratic is than the term authoritarianism but essentially they mean the same thing. These leaders assume full the goals and the decisions. These leaders centralized Some researchers describe this approach as an absolute control over the entire operation. When it comes to that they have a top down approach and they dictate instructions, to the group, and they It's a control compliance relationship. These leaders take little or they are not asking They make decisions based upon their own perspective of a situation. When it comes to decision-making, I picture the autocratic and just people what to do. In terms of how they relate to followers, autocratic leaders establish between themselves and everybody else, there are clear unequal between the leader and the followers. And that's because these on their positions of authority. French and Raven call When you are an official manager, that explains your official that come with that position. The autocratic leaders comes from their job title. In contrast, autocratic leaders don't rely on their strong relationships You don't usually see and connecting with their They don't eat meals together They don't get to know they distance themselves in ways that show that inequality. So let's talk more about the research by Lewin and his co-authors. These authors did of ten-year-olds in fact. And to me, it's interesting with a teacher-student dynamic. If you think of the various over your life, it's possible an autocratic style. The children were put into and they were asked to like making theatrical masks, and making model airplanes. The adults then acted as the of leadership styles with democratic and laissez-faire styles. The researchers then watched to the different leadership styles. They also interviewed the to get their perspective was under each leader. So what exactly did they find? Well, this early research but it laid the foundation to this day think about Under autocratic leaders, followers were more And some versions of the experiments, the children were 30 to than they were under a democratic leader. This was at times a general aggression among all the group members, on one particular group of the group, ganged up on a person, a scapegoat to the point where that participant quit the group. Participants tended to be more productive when the autocratic and directly supervising them, but there was usually a when the autocratic leader left the room. In other experiments participants and apathetic and they did get aggressive under an autocratic leader, So in terms of strengths and weaknesses, let's start with the strengths. This style can be useful a decisive decision is necessary. For example, when there's there's not enough time to and get lots of feedback. Sometimes a delayed than the leader just making It's also useful when you who essentially need And this aligns with part of what Hersey and Blanchard's model of When a follower has low their model says you have to and using directive communication. Also when there's a leadership void and people lack direction then it's better to have an autocratic leader. Also, if there's already lots of conflict and autocratic leader can among participants in the short run. This doesn't solve the underlying problem that's causing the conflict to contain conflict in the short run. So autocratic leadership may but it is still a style that works under certain circumstances, However, in the long that the drawbacks clearly This is a very demanding for both leader and follower. It requires constant hands-on attention because followers will That's the norm this style establishes, the leader gives orders and subordinates comply with those orders. Most followers won't take initiative under an autocratic leader, and participants make more from autocratic leaders. So since followers are not leading this way requires for the leader and the followers. Also followers will work hard that's true, which is a but they act out when the when the leader literally Another problem is turnover, followers are more likely to when they are working And this has been shown in a 2004 article by Van Vugt, Jepson and Hart in the Journal of Experimental As we wrap up, my question is this, does this style sound like If so, clearly it can work but only under limited circumstances. In general most followers do not thrive under autocratic leaders. Be sure to take a look at the next video in this three-part series on Have you ever worked After this lesson you might that you have in common This is the second lesson Be sure to take a look on the autocratic leadership style and the laissez-faire style. To help us visualize it we see the democratic like captain Jean-Luc Dick Winters the commander of Easy Company in the Band of Brothers, by Glenn Close in Guardians of the Galaxy. These characters echo what we see in the democratic leadership style. Democratic leaders take with their followers, even still have a position of power, and still make many of the big decisions, they prefer to get feedback to help leaders shape those decisions. They like to listen to a range of opinions to make sure they're hearing they have what you call, the two heads are better A leader might even test &quot;Hey, here's what I was thinking of doing, what do you think?&quot; Or I've been hearing negative feedback about this external what has been your In cases like these, the leader may still make but at other times, democratic to followers when they can, especially when those decisions directly This is called a decentralized and authority, that contrasts of autocratic leaders. In other words, as the official leader, a democratic leader still has the right to make decisions just but instead delegates those decisions and provides the freedom to followers to make the best choices possible. So let's say a department to purchase new computers, a democratic leader would on cost or compatibility but then delegate the final would purchase their own computer. I'd like to make an if a decision goes badly, the democratic leader is not off the hook. They are still responsible and for the team decisions. So they're not handing their They can't delegate their accountability, they just believe the best with lots of input from their followers. In terms of power distance to have more equal relationships between themselves and followers. So they establish a low to autocratic leaders. The gap between the leader and the follower does not feel as obvious. To make that concrete, democratic leaders would be more approachable, and make efforts to They have good communication about their projects and about and react more spontaneously To be clear democratic and Raven call legitimate to their position, but they tend to rely more on with followers to have that influence. They trust their followers and to make good decisions. In terms of outcomes, many for this type of leader. I was recently looking at a 2019 study on the leadership styles of headmasters over the teachers they supervise, in the Journal of Education, And these authors found with the democratic style positive influence in with teachers, it's important and laissez-faire headmasters and showed some but the democratic style It was more effective than autocratic leaders were So those other styles just not as effective Let's look at the ups we'll start with the strengths. Democratic leaders tend to make high quality informed decisions. They gather lots of inputs, so their decisions are and executed by their followers. Followers of democratic and innovative because they are given room to practice problem solving. Democratic leaders get consistent, long-term productivity And this is a key difference between democratic and autocratic leaders. When an autocratic leader leaves the room, their followers do not work as hard, in contrast democratic whether they are in the Followers are brought into the decisions, goals, and directions, these leaders have also good and not surprisingly followers have a high satisfaction level when working under democratic leaders. In terms of drawbacks in certain situations, so first, when a situation is high like a crisis, maintaining will not help much, if to an organization, it is the quickest response and sometimes that means is not going be able to take a lot of time to gather input and feedback. They're not going to have in a situation like that, of professional sports, a few seconds left on the clock, and your team is down by one to have a long democratic A democratic style is not A second weakness shows that sometimes require a judgment call on the part of a leader, because And you may have to make a decision that fractures the harmony A third weakness shows up who is not particularly trustworthy. So if the leader is a team player, but the follower is not the may not be as suitable for that follower. Overall though, the democratic as the most effective of the Most research sees it with practical experience It doesn't fit all situations equally, but it's a solid leadership style for most people most of the time. So my question for you is does this sound like your style of leadership? If so, you're probably most followers will do Just recognize that for another approach. As mentioned, this is the second video in a three-part series be sure to take a look at and laissez-faire styles in those videos. At its core the laissez-faire is about giving your people space to work so they can be at their best, and many followers like this style, but this style does not have the best reputation and We are at the end of a three part series, the first two videos and democratic leadership styles. And we're starting with some on this from the late 1930s, They did a series of with one of these three of children to see how it worked out. A brief history of the term It means let do, or let them do it, it's a French term that to handle the economy. At its root, it's about the with the economy, just let it go how it's going to go, don't interfere. People in leadership studies took the sentiment and imported the term to describe the hands-off These leaders back off and and space, and autonomy to and solve their own problems. Ronald Reagan, the president as a classic laissez-faire leader. He once said, in fact, &quot;Surround yourself with the best people you can find, delegate authority, and don't interfere as long as the policy you've decided upon is being carried out.&quot; In other words, let them do it. And because of this some critics call this style a zero leadership style. In other words, some people say, it's not really leadership at to this as we will see. To make it more concrete, some examples of laissez-faire would be Ron Swanson from Parks and Rec. He's a classic hands-off leader, he even says he has a which is about less government. Michael Scott from the Office, of his style are giving or not work as the case may be. But my favorite example is in the Marvel universe. But you know, as I was looking into this, I noticed that there aren't of the laissez-faire leadership And I think it's because So on screen, it doesn't it doesn't translate to the when you're looking at it, but you see a positive example and we'll have a little She's the Queen of Asgard, but she doesn't have a top-down style even though she's a queen. In most instances, she stays out of the day-to-day operations of Asgard. She's not about pushing her authority, but she does have authority, she just comes in at key moments, or to counsel the King People come to her for guidance and she helps them figure it out without telling them what to But these examples give you in daily life, compared and democratic styles, will give some overall and goals and resources but to do it on your own. They will have fewer to check in on you for progress updates, and they're not going to observe It's a philosophy of noninterference, so when they do interact to listen and give some general advice and not as likely to micro manage you. They are not going to And this is because they have a lot of trust in their people. If you come to them for advice, in fact, they might tell you what but ultimately they that conversation and go And it can be a very Followers feel freedom, for their project, and laissez-faire leaders are at their best, and are Followers will do great if So let's begin to look at Many followers prefer this with autocratic leaders in Lewin study, 70% of participants preferred the laissez-faire style of leadership. Only 30% preferred autocratic leaders, and in practice some successful Warren Buffet is currently in the world, he runs Berkshire Hathaway, and he's a laissez-faire leader and he's famous for only or four meetings per month. So he's not watching people because he has a key feature in common with most effective laissez-faire leaders and it's a feature that That best case scenario is that these leaders surround themselves with the very best people If you're only dealing with followers who are the smartest, most and competent people, to supervise them very closely. They know how to do it, So giving them space to but this style is not generally effective. There are lots of studies that can cause stress for followers. In fact, in Lewin's original study, some participants preferred working under autocratic leaders. These participants said about &quot;He had too few things for us to do,&quot; and &quot;He let us figure The ambiguity and lack of for some followers, 70% of Lewin's participants over autocratic leaders. In the video on the I mentioned the 2019 of headmasters, over the The author's note that all in dealing with discipline issues. And when they rank them, the was the best, next was laissez Faire, and the last was the autocratic style. But they were still all so yes, leadership in can be effective, but it may in most situations. Let's clarify a few In the real world, no effective leaders are completely hands off. That's really not leadership, no leader can avoid accountability. The leader is still on so laissez-faire leaders from their followers. At minimum, they establish and provide resources to help What makes them different is they leave almost all up to their followers, is that this style sometimes because people make a huge mistake and they think it means lazy is that common word, that means a person is The words just sound similar, which is French has an it's about providing so they can work on their own. A summary of the pros on the positive side, and it works great in some situations, namely, when your followers skilled, and educated. If you're leading high-end professors, and other then it can work really well. It can work well in creative industries where people are driven. In these situations, the can be very satisfying for followers. It can be very motivating can lead a more creative and think of solutions that It also requires less top-down pressure and direct supervision. So it frees the leader to think about the bigger goals On the negative side, it only works well in specific situations, is that it results in low For many situations, followers do not use the autonomy mainly as a way to be more productive. It's not useful when competence Ambiguity is another big problem, followers can get really stressed out when they're confused and lack direction. And the laissez-faire style is not going to help much in that case. It also involves other risks, if your followers are it might be that a hands-off approach doesn't help you notice the problem. It can also create more rooms like bullying or conflict Some people will take advantage of this freedom and to do things other than working hard. In some the laissez-faire leadership style can work in an ideal situation, but when real problems do come up, leaders should really and take a more hands-on A little after the leadership in the 40s, 50s, and 60s and beyond, researchers started looking at the specific leadership skills, or behaviors that leaders performed. In general we break these and communication and and communication. I'm counting all of these as one approach, but really looking at a that collectively form and it developed over time. The Michigan Leadership Studies, Ohio State Leadership Studies and then the managerial Hey there, welcome back Alex Lyon here and today we are going to be looking at the Michigan Leadership Studies. We're just doing an overview, this is a introduction for beginners, we're working out of on Leadership, A I'll put links to that so let's get into it. So years ago, decades ago, the University of Michigan and low-performing teams had one of two, what they thought were opposing leadership styles, they either had a production oriented or a people oriented leadership style, or they could have been where they were a little bit of both but on the low end of both, and that this was a continuum. So it was essentially a one you could either be all the way over on the production oriented or you could have been all or the employee oriented side. Further studies show that and that leaders could be or people oriented employee oriented in their skills either way. So the key part or the key contribution to this Michigan Leadership they thought it was a continuum, you could either be one or the other, somewhere along that scale, but what they later realized it was not, you could be high or low in both and that really was a turning where you could be high they saw them as two separate variables. And the most effective variable they found in later studies, in both orientations to be good, strong and also have good people So question of the day, which Do you think you lean more and that's your focus? Or do you tend to be more employee or people oriented in Or do you happen to be strong I would love to hear evaluation of how you think you show of leadership position, I look forward to reading those comments in that section below the video. So thanks and I will see you soon. Hey, there, welcome back, I'm Alex Lyon and today we are looking at the Ohio State Leadership Studies. This is a set of studies from and they found some that build on some other so let's get into the details, so the researchers at Ohio called the LBDQ to evaluate and found that they had of leadership, and if you've been looking at that we have been talking about. The first is consideration and the next is initiating structure. So in the related video we talked about interpersonal or people-oriented skills and tasks-oriented skills. So I would say that consideration with interpersonal related is another way to talk about tasks, so let's dig down into consideration. They saw that these military commanders, some of them had really they had interpersonal to express affection and So they showed the people around them that they cared about them, for followers, feelings, and they maintained an amiable or a pleasant work environment. Some leaders however, and these leaders would of others, which is the most They would sometimes make to accept suggestions or explanations. So one of the variables is consideration and you could be high, or you The next main component and this is the second one. And this again, lines or production oriented activities like we've seen in some other studies, this is where you're You're assigning task, you're is expected of them on those tasks, you're setting and holding others to clear-cut performance standards. And you could be high or low at this, maybe you're not doing any of these things and you're not initiating structure. So one of the contributions of this Ohio State Leadership Study is they took the next step and they said, this is they crossed these two they made the beginnings that you could be either or high or low in initiating structure. So I asked him to pass video about which way do you lean on this? But now I would ask which box So if you're high or of these areas, where would you be? Would you be in that lower left box, that's low and structure or one of the other boxes, in your initiating structure in high and your consideration scores. I'm wondering what box and in the comment section below, which one are you, are you top right which is like the I look forward to hearing those comments in that section below, Hey, there, welcome back Alex Lyon today, we are going to look at Blake and Mccanse's Managerial Grid. We're going to just treat to this leadership model and and Hackman's leadership book, I'll put a link to that in the description below this video. So let's get into those details. Blake and Mccanse's Managerial Grid is a really commonly for both task and It's connected to several and relationships, but this that we'll see in a minute. It identifies the communication and that shows the leaders emphasis. So the X axis is a concern for production, and the Y axis is a concern to see these kinds of variables, those dimensions in many from that era, the 40s, 50s, and 60s. So what this research they created official four boxes and they gave them names and scores, so you could see where you or someone else as a leader might land of self-assessment or a questionnaire. So if you're high or low and high or low concern for with a score one through and depending upon your score, you would land in one of these four boxes. And the lowest box is called the impoverished And it's hard to imagine we have seen, and you've who had impoverished management, this is where there's on the part of the leader of how you're going to as a there's a very, the leader but then the person will leave you to complete it one way or the other, there's just not a lot of And at the bottom right, we have what's called that's when you have a but it's also very low So here you basically So there are people, but to get the job done and there's not a lot of attention or concern for people. Right in the middle is called the middle of the road management style an adequate level of and for people, and middle-of-the-road means you're gonna get or mediocre results. There's not a lot to stand And the next we have what we that's on the top left, that's for people and lots of attention to building a positive work environment, creating a supportive but you're not really in a hands on way. Now the country club manager but isn't going to be pushy on that. The country club management in the relationships, that to get beneficial production outcomes. And then we have the which is a high score you the highest score would and nine on people, and is really working with showing a high concern and a real collaborative And the managerial grid for some other leadership I think from for Hershey and Blanchard's situational management of leadership model as well. Now, some additional is that leaders, according on one cell called a So if you look at the grid, Oh, that's the way I usually am, but it also depends upon what's going on. That means that you have a that's in one of those boxes. However, leaders sometimes have a backup or secondary orientation that comes out when a situation changes, let's or possibly less pressured then like you might feel a little or a mediocre or but then when a crisis happens, let's say something out of the blue, you might really get and to get out of that crisis Now, some people might not do they might switch in the other Oh, I need to be even more because I wanna check in So if something changes, we will automate default to And then the most effective style is the team management style, is high end both concerns, so in most cases resulting in So now that there is a name to this, I'm wondering question of the day, what is a name to put to your style? So what's your dominant leadership style according to the grid? And also when things change, or when something happens, or your secondary leadership style? I would love to hear your comments in that section below this video. And as mentioned this grid of other thinking about so it's an important one to and the steps that took forward in the area of leadership studies. All right, so thanks take Now we're going to take a and Blanchard situational So what Hersey and Blanchard to take these leadership behaviors both task and relationship they branded it into what they They essentially tied the situation that the followers were in, to the type of approach the So there's more guidance in the 1960s, Paul Hersey and their situation leadership model. The premise of the model is really simple, instead of leaders just having like democratic style, these researchers said their approach depending with their followers, that leaders must look at is their followers ability and followers' willingness or you could call these skill and well, and followers could have These two variables combine four different situations that characterize followers that's the concept readiness, the leader how they should respond and we'll look at the four but I would like to use the metaphor of how an athletic coach relates to his or her players to help explain this. To me a good coach will be able depending upon how ready in a given situation. So according to this model we Level one is when the and also a low willingness level. So the athlete or employee They lack motivation and their ability. So in this situation, Hersey should use high tasks but low relationship communication. If a follower has low the situation essentially means a leader has to direct the follower or athlete, and exactly what to do piece by piece. Readiness level two is where for example, has a low ability So they don't have much skill, but they are very motivated and committed. If you've ever seen the movie, Rudy, this football player He was really fired up, but and that situation says that the leader should provide both and high relationship communication. The leader instructs the and also keeps the person motivated, they want to keep the follower encourage so they will get better Readiness level three has a high ability, but low but they don't have much motivation. You see this sometimes with an extreme amount of natural talent, but they're a little bit lazy in practice, they don't get motivated and when leaders face this say that the best course of action is to get the follower You want the follower to be involved, help them feel more Hersey and Blanchard believed that will provide the extra motivation to get the follower pumped up. Task, communication isn't really necessary for readiness level three and have all the skills that they need. And readiness level four has both ability and high willingness, so they have the skill and the will. In situations like this the leader would simply delegate projects to these followers and let them do it. They already know what they're doing and they don't need any and they also don't need much relationship communication either. Relationship communication from the leader doesn't really go down to zero though, the leader still needs to and offer recognition from time to time, that it's mostly though to maintain the followers already So in summary, Hersey and of task, communication and that came from previous models of the different situations So the model is meant to and how they can adapt and handle the different And by the way there's a and Blanchard developed, it's not a great idea to use and I don't have permission but you can certainly look for it online because I have seen it elsewhere. So my question for you about this situational leadership model I would love to hear your comments in that section below the video. Just to reminder to subscribe so you get notifications and again, feel free to look at those free resources I mentioned We are almost halfway and we're gonna change the transactional, and how these two are related. And we're getting now into We're gonna talk about To some people this is an that we should throw out of it's an important leadership area to study because it teaches us a of leadership studies. So we're gonna be working out on leadership, I'll put a link to that in the description below this video, let's get into the details. (energetic upbeat music) As I understand it James about transactional leadership and Burns basis thinking on we have five levels of needs at different points, and the are concerned mostly with satisfying the physiological safety and belonging needs of their followers. So it's an exchange, the and privileges for desired outcomes. So if the follower's performing to help the follower meet It's like a Marine drill in the Johnson book, the would trade a weekend So there's an exchange, you do A little later Bernard Bass and his research associates talked about these different factors in ways that you can observe the And the first is contingent reward and here's where the for good effort, they wanna So you only gets contingent, you only get the reward There's also management where you step in when so the leader is trying and they intervene when the acceptable performance levels. That leader then initiates corrective action to improve performance, essentially punishment. Now, even though this and it's really a managerial is a leadership approach, have had this style, you and there are some very well-known people in the public for example, Vince a football coach considered one of the most successful but he was known as being a In fact, as many coaches are. So if you performed well did you got rewarded, you got you got to win games, If you didn't perform, you you were benched and you you were punished in another words. And it sounds very calculated and very cold and straightforward, but he was one of the best he won more games than almost anybody, if I'm remembering my stats correctly. So these are the kinds that can become successful and it's not just coaches in for example, in corporate is a transactional leader, he's all about setting clear as that national motivation that they can succeed, he's He's not a particularly when you hear him talk but he does help his and they get rewarded. There's a fictitious one, but in a movie called the Devil Wears Prada. Meryl Streep plays Miranda Priestly and she's the editor of the magazine. She's harsh, she's tough to work with, but she is a good example So she is very keen to see and punish people frequently if they don't meet those standards, but she also in the end does reward people when they meet those standards, is rare but she will She is an exaggeration, of course, she's a character in the but the whole movie essentially illustrates her transactional In terms of what does this Well, the beginning of the that you'll see the leader establishing clearly defined criteria and anticipated rewards so they'll know how to get there. Then the leader will be monitoring to evaluate compliance, success or non-compliance There'll be giving bonuses and recognition for accomplishing the goals and the leader will be punishing poor work or negative outcomes. So very straightforward, but it does have some So the advantages are, it it gives achievable goals, is a very straightforward and it can be a very The disadvantages are that it's uninspiring context because you have to to push for these goals in terms of the follower engagement. So question of the day, what do you think of this Do you think it's old fashioned, do you think we should leave it behind? Or do you think at least so if nothing else you can We are going to look at We'll take a look at of transformational leaders and we'll see if you can relate to them, so let's get into it. There's been lots of interest lately in the transformational but it has its origins in the late 1970s, James MacGregor Burns where he contrasted with transactional leadership. He used Maslow's hierarchy of needs to explain these two approaches. Transactional leadership is where a leader is mainly concerned with their lower level needs of Maslow's pyramid by satisfying followers and belonging needs. It's a transaction, and exchange transactional leaders help Transformational leaders and attempt to engage them entire person to satisfy followers lower and also their higher level Esteem and self-actualization. According to Burns, enhance followers level of motivation, commitment and ownership. Ultimately the thinking goes into leaders themselves. Johnson and Hackman describe of transformational leaders, to any of these personally. First, transformational they are always looking for new They challenge business as usual. Creative people come what they have in common is non-conformist in their with ambiguity and complexity. A great example of this is Dave Kelly, he's the founder of IDEO, the most successful product Kelly and IDEO were known for developing incredibly and services for clients. So a question for you do you see yourself as a creative person? The good news is Dave Kelly has been teaching for decades, and he's can be more creative with practice. Second, transformational They communicate a lot with and through this communication, of their followers needs and Hackman say, &quot;only when the leader is involved with followers can he or she find ways A great current example is Barack Obama I've never met him, but they say that he is very interactive, and a strong communicator. He connects with everyday people and world leaders equally well. Question for you would you Do you have strong people skills? Well, communication skills are learnable and we can all improve Third, transformational Some say this is their most they can explain in where they want to take the organization, they're able to explain the and ways that energized of excellence that inspires followers. And I can think of no better than Martin Luther King Jr., he articulated in compelling language, a vision for the future His famous &quot;I have a dream&quot; of the most vision-based So a question for you, are and purpose clearly and Well, like the other you can get better with practice, I remember before King he was preaching and speaking in church and in the he sharpened his message with And practice is something Fourth, transformational as I said earlier Burns based his thinking about transformation of Maslow's hierarchy, the top Transformation leaders in their leaders to become all they can be by delegating important and trusting followers This also allows organizations I think Phil Knight the founder of an empowering leader. In his book Shoe Dog he when he was hiring employees, that if he wanted Nike to grow, he had to empower his and sell more shoes without his day-to-day direct So question for you, are you and trust others to take action. If we want to engage our and help them grow into leaders is the best way to get there. Fifth, transformational they are true believers in their cause, they demonstrate extraordinary commitment, even in the face of repeated failure, their passion, enthusiasm and Mother Theresa is a great example, her organization and mission and dying, the people on the streets that society had forgotten. She worked until she was 87 years old and was hospitalized several There were many stories about mother Teresa She would say to doctors, &quot;I have to go, I still have important work to do,&quot; her passion and commitment that electrified the people around her. So question for you, how would you rate your level of passion? If we can find something that's usually when we will We're going to look now at the charismatic leadership theory. Charismatic leaders are sometimes confused with transformational leaders, but as you'll see, always have the best interest People have been writing about charisma for over a hundred years in but it has more recently become for the past few decades, so here we go. We're going to talk about the theory behind charismatic leadership, are some people born with charisma? Or can you you personally And is this even a make or break leadership quality to begin with? Let's take a look at the details. But we're not so much how to turn on your charisma, we're going to unpack and look at the positives and then I'll give you my or not charisma is learnable. The more definitions you look up, the more you'll see three common aspects that capture the word charisma. It means number one, appeal. Charismatic people have a special kind of magnetism. Number two gift, we think of or supernatural gift and power that sets them up apart And number three, charismatic they inspire and excite then they usually have an influence over a large group of followers. Many writers start with of charisma from 1922. &quot;A certain quality of an by virtue of which he is and treated as endowed with or at least specifically Robert House use Weber's work on charismatic leadership in 1976. He said, &quot;Transcendence to both the qualities of of his mission,&quot; there's something and their mission that what we're used to seeing. To me some quick examples are Arnold Schwartzenegger, the late Princess Diana and Will Smith. They're all different, but there's a special that sets them apart from the crowd. For all their individual about the commonalities that in his book, he spells or typical behaviors we see First, they are strong and values they want Gandhi was a great role civil disobedience that he walked the talk in other words. Second charismatic leaders to their followers, they at least appear as if they know what they're doing. Third, they communicate goals. These goals are usually or moral position. Martin Luther King, Jr. for with a clear and moral position. Fourth, they communicate high expectations for their followers and to meet those expectations, this gives followers the and fifth, charismatic of followers, we can see this &quot;Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country.&quot; He aroused the motive of service that he wanted his followers You'll notice that a strong theme running through these five behaviors is the way leaders engage their followers. If they don't get their and motivated in a special way as charismatic, another key Writers who study charisma are more likely to find when the situation or the or stress on followers in some way. Sometimes there's a felt need and exigence for a powerful leader to come There is some problem, some unmet need in the followers lives and the charismatic leader comes along and offers a compelling solution. So far we've talked about but there is a dark side too. One key criticism is that throughout history have for their own benefit, not for the benefit of their followers. Some charismatic leaders use to essentially gain more power but ultimately they have a and even on the followers typical unethical examples Osama bin Laden and numerous cult leaders. In corporate America, we see Jeff Skilling and Theranos And the movie Wonder Woman is an example of a charismatic but ultimately unethical leader. Charisma and ethics do I also want to talk about a less obvious and less serious problem that on campus and in professional settings but it still matters, and I'll call it the Sometimes I will see individuals with fairly charismatic at least in the short and they stand out and they of confidence, many people view with leadership, but really to have charisma to be effective, in fact, some people turn up the to cover over a lack of Some people might light up but then they'll have trouble or following through on their own work. Not everybody who has that can back it up with actual competence. The downside of that is are given too much leadership to expose their lack of and set them up for failure. Given that, let's talk about the issue that many people ask about, with a special set of gifts and talents that sets them apart from ordinary people? Or is charisma learnable over time? And I believe that the with one exception, so on the that people like Elon Musk, Steve Jobs, Oprah Winfrey really To me certain people with charisma, at the same that we talk about can be learned and improved with practice. Almost anybody, for example, or communicate high expectations if they set their mind to it. So while we may not all be born with that special ingredient, we can all certainly learn For example, there's an area of research above our willingness and it shows that simply by than usual with the people will almost instantly see more credible and they're as opinion leaders. I know many people people who grew into compelling charismatic by working at it. So the short answer is that that way I suppose, and also But there's one exception, one and that is the issue of followers. For whatever reason, even people with the strongest collection do not rise to the level of Some people can do all of the behaviors and still seem to be So just acting more that people will respond Now the good news is there are many ways to be an effective leader that have nothing to do with charisma. In fact, many leaders have and we would not describe Bill Belichick for example, is the coach of the New England Patriots and he's won six super bowls, he's incredibly effective But few people would describe he's almost completely unlikable So having charisma does not will be effective, it doesn't Charisma is not in any way, a precondition for successful leadership. In other words, it might be or break leadership Effective leaders come in We're going to switch about two related relationship theories, or relational theories of leadership, the vertical dyad linkage model and the highly respected area of research called leader member exchange theory. Today, we're talking about the and we're working out of on Leadership, A I'll put a link to that book in the description below this video. So feel free to check that out, now let's get into the details. So George Graen and Associates developed this model decades ago, it's of leadership, there's lots and traits models, this is to the followers, so Now, before this, most researchers about the same style of So we thought that the has an entire collective. What Graen and his associates found out is that leaders treated and followers then had their of their leader, both So you might have one leader and some of the people thought the and strong leader and had and other people might've is not very connected with me, I don't feel close to them at all. So different perceptions, depending upon how the leader the results were in groups to leader and out-groups like they were not in that inner circle. So let's look more carefully which is a major feature of this theory. So in group members with the leader, they typically of roles, like they might to the leader or a quote these are not necessarily but that's the role they play. In other words, they to that relationship, to be in contact and In group members enjoy they have mutual influence and support between themselves and the leader, they are allowed more and more influence over decision-making. The expectations for them there's an expectation for take on more responsibilities than the out-group members. So there's a note here that I that these relationships and they must be mutually maintained. So just like any relationship it takes both people to to get this kind of in-group results. So let's move on to talk Out-group members have a they get treated by leaders or task oriented style, just a standard managerial They have mutually low levels of trust and support with each other. Now that doesn't mean like I don't trust that person, it's just that they haven't to look out for each other they're not granted as over decisions and they don't have a lot of input with that leader. Out-group members are expected to meet the formal role by the organization, they're and fulfill the organization's But they have lower than the in-group members. So they have a very depending upon whether you are in the in-group or the out-group. Now how do these in-groups to begin with? Well, the research shows that about who gets close to them or not. But obviously the follower also has to desire a closer relationship and in group relationship with the leader, but the leader is really about who they let in or not, they have those boundary management and it's based upon a lot of factors, just like your personal liking, similarity, your work will determine on whether Now followers may move in and and out-groups depending and their ability to fit the and preferences and this is So sometimes you'll get a and then your relationship with the new person than it was you might've been on the and then a new leader takes on the out-group and that So it all depends upon that relationship and that's why we call of leadership, so question of the day, have you ever found yourself and in work situation? I would love to hear your to that question below and I look forward to reading your comments there. Take care and I'll see you next time. Today we're gonna to talk and you know you've made has an abbreviation LMX. We are working out of on Leadership, A I will put links to that in the description below this So this model is an out-growth of the vertical dyad and his associates, and like that model the LMX takes a relational This is all about how the leader and the member relates to each other. It's about that exchange if you will, that relational exchange. Unlike vertical dyad linkage model, this model moves beyond the which is either you're in or you're out and this focuses more on between individual leader So that's the leader Using surveys to assess the can range from low LMX to high LMX, so there's a continuum here, to your leader in a variety of ways, it's not an either or situation. So let's look more into of the great things about is the benefits that you get with your followers. There is a clear link between and the benefits for high with those followers are numerous. So first of all, more and quantity for follower. The followers are more they have better mental health, they're more satisfied more committed to the organization, more likely to go beyond they're more successful They're more likely to provide they're highly motivated in their organizations And the opposite is true So if I had a magic wand and and professional settings about communication leadership skills, and I'm telling you if I had a magic wand, like what's one approach to make everything better? Develop high quality relationships with the people that are on your team. And when you do you will for that follower, and then they in turn will make the team stronger overall. So early on the research has changed their opinions early on, of the vertical dyad linkage model. And initially researchers could only have a few good relationships with their followers, but And they said, you know, they really should make every effort to build high quality relationships with all of their followers. They saw this really as the leader's duty because of the incredible with high quality relationships. So if they're the leader, in an organization, it's part of their job to maximize performance, so Now high quality by the leader's effort, make the offer as Johnson So you can't make the follower also have a good relationship with you, but the leader has to do their part. They have to attempt to develop a high quality And relationship have phases according to the research, and they start just like First phase is a stranger, and the follower meet, who immediately occupy whatever in the first place, they have a leader member dynamic there according to their job descriptions. And the next phase over Just like you develop in with other people, that's more productive task relationships, and then they also share So there might be a about their lives outside of work, and what's been going on with them, so they have an acquaintanceship. And the third level which and the high quality and that's where the two They share a variety of They show mutual trust, respect, and a sense of obligation And they are both empowered to share feedback openly and the relationship has expanded beyond the mirror job description. So it's a well-rounded with lots of back and forth. Now, one of the criticisms well, how can you develop those? Or one of the early criticisms we're supposed to have but how do we get there? So research that came a bit about how we can develop this in a way. They said that, well, when we ask over time all of these they say that the high-quality and experienced and enjoy liking, loyalty and professional respect. So if you want to develop with the people on your team here are the three ways The first one is to show liking and affect is just that positive expression when you see someone you So these are the kinds of relationships where people like each other. The kinds of people you might describe as, Oh, I have this friend at work. And even if you don't when you get to work, you you like them, they like you and it's a positive So that's the first quality The second quality is loyalty, the leader in the member and obligation to each other, a sense that they have your back, they're gonna look out for you. They're going to advocate from criticism if it comes up publicly. So there's a sense that, you're looking out for about an opportunity or I'll make sure I bring it your way. They're looking out for each other. And the third is professional respect. So when we get to know people over time, maybe you learn that, Oh soccer player outside of work. It could be something that you respect or like they've won some They used to work at a And you have noticed that the in and around your you may admire their character. There's a professional and you may even tell them that through communication. So the research shows that if you have these three mutual qualities in your relationship, then on the LMX scale. If you're missing some of that's gonna be a low on that scale. So question of the day, can you describe any high-quality relationships with the people on your team, whether you're a supervisor or a follower? I would love to hear your in the comment section below this video. I look forward to reading your comments. So until next time I will see you soon. We're almost done with on these various leadership theories and we're gonna finish up with one of my personal favorites, It's not necessarily represent a different to many of the earlier models, This video we'll look We'll look at its origins and also how it can be applicable today, so let's unpack the details. Most of the information we from Robert K. Greenleaf, he and I will put a link to his website in the description below. The video I encourage you to look into the details a So servant leadership is a philosophy, a leadership philosophy, a And depending upon how it's going to influence So before we get into servant leadership it's the best strategy is to compare it to traditional leadership because to traditional leadership. So traditional leadership in this pyramid of leadership, serving the leaders in So the people below serve this is very different It's a very boss centered approach, this traditional approach, where the person in authority typically is looking to amass more and unfortunately this people below the leaders often And anytime I watch a movie or a show about the Victorian era in England, I start to think about this where there's the person in authority, the family that owns the and the servants literally of the house often times in that house is there Now that's of course these are movies and I didn't live back about this traditional view when I watched those movies. Servant leadership really flips this whole equation on its head. This servant leadership is grounded in many of the religions Jesus said directly, &quot;Whoever wants to be first must be the servant of all.&quot; So this is a classic In fact, what he said to be like the other leaders, you don't wanna quote So that's definitely servant leadership. Obviously if people are still in charge they're still the leader, but by thinking about how they that are under their care. That's why people like Mother are classic examples of servant leaders. They have a deep sense of that they lead, in fact, a but Gandhi was trained as He had a high level of education, but he thought the best way and so he changed his whole lifestyle and approach to lead from that place of being a servant to other people. And today's organizations to be a servant leader, that if you invest in other people then they will help you And that's why you see servant leaders developing other people, in other people, getting treating them well, making at work so that they can contribute and reach their full potential. Servant leaders are known of the people that are under their care. And they're known for trust and empathy, so that's a brief look at servant leadership and how it contrasts to traditional leadership. So my question of the day to about your examples of servant leadership who have you worked for? Now you don't need to name &quot;Oh, I work for a supervisor and he was a really good I would love to hear your and I can't wait to read them, to articulate these things to name them so that we know servant and we're much more as rising leaders. So thanks, God bless and I Well, you did it, you made it to the again and I hope you have enjoyed learning about these various leadership models as much as I've enjoyed I look forward to reading and until next time, thanks, God bless. And I will see you in the next video.