I'm A.J. Gutierrez, and in this episode of EdHeads were connecting with Kristen DiCerbo, who's the Chief Learning Officer at Khan Academy. She also leads the work of Khanmigo, Khan Academy's AI chatbot that's taking the education landscape by storm. She was named by Time Magazine as a top 100 most influential people in Artificial Intelligence and so far on EdHeads, we've talked about what AI is and the promises and perils across the education landscape. Today, we're going to dive into an actual application. This is EdHeads. Kristen, I'm so excited for our conversation today. Along the journey to date with EdHeads, we've talked big picture about what AI is. The implications of these emerging technologies in the education landscape, the promises and perils of it, now is an opportunity for us to dive into actual applications and how it's actually transforming day-to-day learning for students and the experience of teachers in the classroom. And the work that you're doing with Khan Academy with Khanmigo, with AI chatbots and tutoring is definitely at the forefront in the evolution of this type of technology, so I'm excited to dive into an actual application. But before we do that, I would love to learn more about you as a person in your role as the Chief Learning Officer at Khan Academy. Tell us a little bit more about yourself and what inspired you to pursue your current career and your role in education. First, thanks for having me. I'm looking forward to the conversation. I think I can trace most of my interests in education and how people learn back to a pretty important experience I had in high school, actually, as someone who was pretty successful in school, I knew how to play the game. I knew how to be, you know, "good in school". And so as part of being in the National Honor Society in high school, I got to tutor middle school students. And it was the first kind of experience I had with really working with students who were struggling to learn something. And it was really apparent to me, these kids are trying, but they need good tools and good teaching. And I pretty quickly realized that me, as the high school student, maybe was a little underprepared to help these students and I started really thinking about how do people actually learn? What does that mean? And I didn't know at the time what was going to end up. I couldn't have said I was going to be the Chief Learning Officer of Khan Academy because this was like 1990 and there was no such thing as the internet really yet. But, I had that idea of how do people learn and what does that look like? The interesting thing is now being at Khan Academy, there's so many people, including Sal himself, that had high school tutoring experiences that became part of their journey, that started their interest in education and learning and things. So I'm a big fan of thinking about how we can get more people involved in those kinds of experiences. And I'm not just saying that because you founded Saga. It's true. It's actually funny you mention that because, one of the motivations for starting Saga, I had an amazing experience with tutors. And, and it wasn't just for accelerated learning. I mean, my tutors got to know me they communicated with my mom and my family. They knew my name. They knew my birthday. And those are the types of things that are really amazing. And it's so fun that you found that delight in working with students especially as a high school student, which is so much fun and it sparked your interest in how students learn. And that's your area of expertise. And I would love to talk a little bit more about that. But before we do, tell us a little bit more about Khan Academy. I think a lot of people are familiar with Khan and maybe the videos, but tell us a little bit more about the mission and or what you're up to. Yeah. So, at Khan Academy, our mission is to provide a free, world-class education to anyone, anywhere, which I think is a pretty good mission. It kind of attracted me to get to Khan academy, but I don't like to assume that everyone knows. So Khan Academy is online free instruction and practice in a lot of domains. We're best known for math, but also we have science and humanities, life skills like financial literacy. So lots of domains and areas. You mentioned the videos. We certainly are known for Sal's videos, but when we talk about learning, one of the key things for learning is not passively watching a video, but actively practicing. And so we do have both videos, but then practice where students can work towards getting to mastery on skills and foundational skills and skills that build on each other. And so that's another important part of the of the experience. And there's a couple of different ways that students access it. One is historically independent learners. And you know, a student who's just looking for some help on their math homework can come. So we call those independent learners. And then we also have a districts program, because we realized that the students who need us most are not out there actively looking for help. They're giving up or not trying or working through. And we realized we needed to be in classrooms where we could be thinking about being part of the whole learning experience. So our districts program allows us to work with a district, provide professional learning for teachers, provide just some tools to help. When you're a teacher in a classroom, if you have to sign each student up individually to an online, that's a big pain. So we have automatic rostering, just some of those things that ease the way for classrooms as part of this. So, folks are often familiar with the independent learners, but we also have the district program as well. Yeah. So I love the opportunity to connect directly with consumers and with families, and being really intentional about how you're collaborating with schools and districts can meet them where they are, which is really, really exciting. And the next frontier for you all is this idea of an AI chatbot tutor. What was the motivation and the why behind that? In August of 2022, OpenAI approached Sal and said, we'd like to show you this new thing that we're developing. And Sal brought me in and said, well, we'll see a demo. And they showed us what we now know as GPT 4.0. So OpenAI's new model that they were training at the time of this text generation tool, and they were trying to get it to pass Advanced Placement biology and we have a whole bunch of Advanced Placement biology questions. And so they were testing it on a lot of our questions, and they started showing us how it was answering these AP biology questions. And it was pretty impressive. But we said, actually, we don't need a tool to answer questions. We want a tool that's going to help students get to the answers themselves. And that idea of when you're tutoring, when you're a student working on independent practice, that we know is really important for learning, but what happens when you get stuck if you're at home, if you don't have someone who's able to help you, you're kind of just there and frustrated and don't know what to do. Even in a classroom, if the teacher is working with a small group and in the rest of the rooms practice- how do you get help? So that's one of the main problems that we wanted to solve with this technology. How do we provide the the supports, the scaffolding for students when they're working on independent practice to be able to get the support they need? So I would be curious how this, your understanding of deeper learning, how is that shaping how you're approaching developing of Khanmigo? And where do you see the maybe strengths and weaknesses of this chatbot currently? What are you learning in terms of its ability to do some of these things effectively? Yes. So we found as we were thinking about, how do we try to get this chatbot to do these things, that because it has some knowledge base of academic articles, we could say, we can cite an academic article and say, what are the tutor moves cited in this article and it would be able to list them. And so we can oh, there's a way that we can start to get these chatbots to do the things that we think are important in tutoring. I will tell you our first prompt, which is how the instructions that you give an AI for how to act. Our first prompt was three sentences. Like, it said, you are a Socratic tutor. I am a student. Do not give me the answer. That's a good start, I like it. It wasn't even that long ago. Our prompt now is about 500 words long, and, it includes then also including the problem, the student' working on the answers, the student's working on. We also include our human-generated hint structure into that prompt, because then we have this whole bank library of existing questions and problems. And if we include both the answer and the hint structure, the tutor, the model is more likely then to give good hints and good support and good work through where they are. But the biggest things are also then trying to make the jump from this problem I'm working on to the bigger concepts that that problem is trying to move forward. So I'm trying to do this algebraic equation. But the big idea, you know, how- why do we try to get those variables on one side and how that fits together. So trying to then prompt the model for how to make that leap is certainly a challenge. But the one of the biggest challenges that we found, it's been a year now that this has been in classrooms, we've had about 50, we have a little over 50 districts, about 100,000 students over the past year have been working on it. And we can look at their transcripts of their discussions between the chatbots and the students and one of the things is we found, this is probably not a surprise, students are not great at asking questions. They don't know what they don't know. They don't always have the metacognitive skills to think about their own thinking. And so we saw students sometimes and that cognitive effort is hard. Just type like IDK, IDK. They're not even typing "I don't know" and they're just like IDK. And so trying to think about how we get the tutor to just elicit more from the students is one of our big challenges right now, because if the student's not giving anything, it's really hard then to react to that and figure out how to help them. So, part of it is not just to accelerate learning on a student level, but you're also developing this chat bot to support teachers as well. And so that's something that's really fascinating. If you could share a little bit more about that as well. Yes. When we initially launched Khanmigo, I think we had 4 or 5 activities for teachers. Something I think we had developed a lesson hook like, what do you, what's that first five minutes of class where you're trying to spark interests and activate prior knowledge and all of that. So we had a little activity where a teacher could say, hey, I'm teaching gravity and the solar system today, let's brainstorm some lesson hooks. Well, we started showing that to teachers and teachers immediately started asking us questions. Oh, could you help me write rubrics? Can I help me to work on my whole lesson plan? Could help me write my class newsletter? So we now have about 25 different activities that teachers can do with Khanmigo. Conversations they can have. One of the things I'm most excited about is where teachers are able to talk to Khanmigo about their students' data. So we've talked for a long time about teachers using data to help inform their instructional decisions. I've worked for 20 years on, oh, we're going to make the perfect dashboard. The teachers will be able to look at the data and know what to do, but every time we put those in front of teachers, teachers see the data and say, so what should I do now? And this, allows the teacher to say, so what should I do now? Or hey, how should I group students for this next lesson? And Khanmigo will make some recommendations. It's not. And then the teacher, the expert, can decide whether to use those or not, or to adjust them and what that looks like. But that ability just to have an assistant or a brainstorming partner or any of that has been really exciting. And teachers have been really excited and keep giving us more ideas, things to use it for. I love that, and I think I love it because it underscores something that's really important about developing effective tutoring programs. So it's it's all separate from like the science of learning and tutoring. And it's being really intentional about the tutoring being integrated into what's happening in school. And so the fact that the chatbot is you're creating space for the teachers now to align with what they're doing and for them to help shape that experience is actually really important in the development of this technology. And you're also, you haven't been doing this in isolation. You've also been trying to find ways to collaborate with teachers on developing this. And so, can you share a little bit more about how you're approaching co-designing and developing the chatbot with teachers and also with students as well? Yeah. So, first we have a bunch of folks on staff that were teachers and have been in classrooms, and that's always important as well. But once people get to about five years out of classrooms, we all feel like, oh, we've gotten a little stale at remembering what that way, a little rusty. So it's both. And our design process is essentially we start with discovery, where we're looking at what are the pain points of teachers. So we have conversations with teachers about, hey, we're thinking about this problem. What are your biggest pain points here? What are the things that this can help with? And then we start thinking about, all right, what are solutions? How do we help generate different solutions that might help solve that. Then we move. So in this case you know the the problem is hey, I know all this data is in the Khan Academy system, but I don't know what to do with that or how to make it. All right. Here are some different ways we could try to solve that. Have teachers coming in. What do you think about this? Oh no, that's, probably not going to use those fancy, you know, all of that statistical analysis I really want to see what the recommendations are. And so lots of iterations there around what the solution is as we start to prototype those again, talking to teachers about building them and where all those are, I will say that teachers are really busy. And so as much as we're always wanting to do that whole process and work through, sometimes it's tough to get teachers. We have a whole, a whole funnel where we have asked teachers to participate and we get a group and then get them to sign up for a date and then get them to actually come, not any fault of teachers, but it can be tough from our side to get that participation. So anyone who's out there and is thinking, oh, I want to be involved, I encourage you to reach out to your favorite EdTech provider, whether it's us or someone else, and ask about if you're a teacher, they would love to get your input. One of the things that I'm curious to hear about this year, an initial rollout of some of these tools, if, some concerns, what kinds of concerns have educators and teachers brought up with the chatbots and what do you feel it's important for people to understand? Certainly the biggest thing in education as they came out was plagiarism and thinking about, are these just going to write all students' essays now? And what is that? You know what? What's going to happen to student writing and what that looks like. In response to that, we have launched an essay coach that if students are working in the Khan Academy system, it walks students from: Here's your assignment. Do you have questions about the assignment itself? What's the prompt? To outlining, to drafting, to getting feedback on that. But the key thing is all of students' interactions with Khanmigo are recorded in a chat history. And so students can go back to their chat history and refresh, oh, what was what was that thing I was working on? But teachers and parents also have access to the students' chat history. So if you're in that ecosystem, you can see: did the student do this work? Did the student write this? How much did Khanmigo write and how much did the student write? And Khanmigo was prompted about what kind of assistance to give and what kind of assistance not to give. So I think the point there, and there are other organizations that are similarly working with AI this way, I think the main point is the difference between general AI applications and AI applications that are specifically designed for education. And so as people start thinking about all of these are all the concerns about AI, I think we can talk about how we can address those with education applications built with the AI, but specifically for purposes in education. What are some of the concerns people have about using, like working with students and, districts to help train these models? And is there a way in which we can do so in a safe and secure manner? Yes. So there's a couple of things. One is to think, to really think deeply about what anonymizing data looks like. And so if we can remove any way for say, there's a chat conversation is if we can remove anything in that conversation that can be traced back to a particular student. So no personally identifying information, no, none of that. Anonymize that and then use that to help train the models or fine tune models. And that's one piece. The other piece is understanding kind of the difference. There's these big foundational models like the GPT 4.0s like Claudes, those kinds of things. There's data that's used to train those. But then we could also think about having data that's just used by an organization. So for us just to fine tune a model specifically for Khan Academy, we are not doing that now, but that's in the future we can think about, okay, as a student or as a district that's thinking about their students' data. There's- it's not just an all or nothing proposition. It's do we want to have our data being used to train those big models that are available to everyone? Do we want it to be used to train an education-specific model that just is focused on tutoring? Do we not want our data to be used at all? So there's a lot of nuance here for folks to think about what what they want their limits to be and what they want to do with their data. So, so far, we've talked about this tool you're developing, and I'd be curious to learn more about how that tool is being utilized and implemented in districts and education context. What are you learning about that and how that might inform future evaluations. So we saw a few things. One is that students definitely appreciated the getting unstuck part of the tools. And like that. Second, we learned that it's not just natural to interact with these tools, and both teachers and students need a little bit of help just learning how to use them well. So for teachers, we saw that teachers that had some professional learning where they got a chance to play with the tools ended up then having better, better usage, better quality of usage in their classrooms, which is not surprising. The first time you use these tools, you ask it to do something. It doesn't give you exactly what you want. You either say, oh, we can't do that, and you throw it away, or you start to learn how to iterate with it. And how does oh do that, but make it a little more engaging or those kinds of things and you get closer to what you want. But that's not necessarily a natural thing to do. So that professional learning for teachers, we learned was really important, which probably is not a surprise to anyone. But here we are. I mean, we're all learning how to use these things they're developing so quickly, right? Yeah, absolutely. Another thing that we learned that, was that students who are English language learners really appreciated the ability to be able to talk to Khanmigo in their home language. And so, we officially support Spanish and Portuguese, but it will respond in other languages too. The first girl I sat next to in one of our early trials, the first thing she asked me was, does it speak Swahili? And I was like, I have no idea if it speaks Swahili. Try it out. And she type something and it said something back. And I said, did it answer you? And she said, yes. So that's, that's support where students are like, I didn't quite get that in English from my teacher, but I can kind of clarify. So one that was kind of an unexpected finding that we got. And so what does actual implementation look like in terms of the structure? We- it definitely varies. But so one particular case, so we often find that Khan Academy in general is used in a centers model where the classroom is set up, where the teachers potentially working with a small group on a lesson in one section, there's another section that's kind of practicing on Khan Academy, and there's another maybe group over here that's doing some kind of a collaborative, you know, group project type thing. So in that scenario, you get the Khanmigo working with the students who are doing the independent practice, they're often conversing with each other too, to help and then talking to Khanmigo and, and being able to work without having to get the teacher who's over here trying to do this lesson, and they're waving their hands, trying to get unstuck. That definitely helps. The students like it and the teacher likes it. So that's one particular model. Clearly the homework model where teachers are assigning math for homework. Students can use Khanmigo. Then to be able to get the support they need to be able to be more successful on their homework. So those are two pretty standard ones that we see. We've also, there's a school in Indiana that uses this more for, ELA and humanities kinds of things. So we have where the teacher has assigned them to talk to a character in their book. And they're able to make that come alive a little bit more and have those kinds of conversations that are just bringing a little more engagement into the classroom. So, so far, you're seeing lots of different ways of this being implemented. Are you getting any insight of how you might approach or are starting to think about what an evaluation could look like in the future? Yes, we are definitely thinking, how do we- what are the things we want to evaluate? So one is clearly this tutor use case. And so if we focused on that we could say all right what kind of implementations are we looking at? Does it look like the homework implementation or the station's implementation or what that- what is it that we want to evaluate? If you throw all of these things in together in the same evaluation, you're going to be getting all different kinds of noise, and it's going to be really hard to tease out any effect of any of that. So we want to think is more clearly defining the implementation, which is what this year has been great for. So then we can start to say, all right, what is that? And what impact do we think that that has. We have it even taking the AI out of the, out of the picture, we have an internal metric that we call skills to proficient. So when you work on Khan Academy, you're able to move any particular skill from familiar to proficient to master. We know that if you get skills to proficient, you're going to see gains on external assessments, particularly our a lot of our studies are done with the NWA's map growth assessment. And so, we know if students are spending 30 minutes a week and getting those skills to proficient, that that's going to lead to those gains. Now, we want to bring in the AI and be able to say, okay, if you're using AI in this tutoring context, how does that impact the number of skills you get to proficient? And then if we can get to those end-of-the year test scores, we can start doing some measures against external assessment. But as you know, doing those big studies takes time and effort and a lot- can go wrong, in many different ways. Many ways. So you don't want to put all that effort in until you've got a clear implementation model, clear dependent variables that you're interested in outcomes and studying and make sure you've got all of that aligned so you're not going to all that effort, and not be- and just raising more questions than answers. I love that, and especially because you want to be thoughtful about what is it that we want to evaluate? Let's start off by looking at how students are growing against our own benchmarks and how that could relate to assessment growth. And yeah, and then maybe after that we can have a much more robust RCT- like evaluation. So it'll take some time. And I'm really excited about, what you learn. And there's already some precedent for the extent to which technology can allow tutoring to be much more accessible and cost-effective. In the behind the scenes conversation we had, we talked about a randomized trial of Saga Education that was published by the University of Chicago, where we paired human tutoring with adaptive learning technology. And we were able to maintain the effectiveness of our program and we're able to dramatically reduce the costs. And what was exciting about that is that that essentially it validates this premise of you can use these types of tools, maintain high levels of efficacy while significantly reducing costs. And in this scenario, it wasn't a generative AI, it was adaptive learning. And so but I think there certainly is precedent for this, and I'm very excited about what could be possible, especially with pairing this generative AI with human tutors. Absolutely. And it's the same thing we see. And a lot of these adaptive learning systems, Khan Academy, there's many others, that it's not even that you need a ton of time on them. For Khan Academy, we see 30 minutes a week on Khan Academy. We see those gains on external assessment scores. If you can pair that, then, with a human tutor who's doing the both the motivational aspects and the focusing on the things that are needed most that together seems like and we start to see in the data, it seems to really produce good outcomes. As we look toward the future, what are you most excited about when it comes to educational delivery or the education landscape against a backdrop of these emerging tools and resources? I continue to be an optimist about the idea that humans and technology can work together to improve learning outcomes. So despite the fact that we have not disrupted education, I don't know that education needs to be disrupted as much as we just want to see improvement and a path to improvement on learning outcomes for more students and where we are. So I'm excited about finding ways for your regular, average classroom teacher to be able to seamlessly incorporate some of these technology tools into just their classroom flow, their workflows of what they're doing to be able to get more students access to the help they need. I think that's really the promise of the AI and where we're going. And so part of what I think our job is, is to get, make that seamlessness possible so that it's not such a big jump to have to use some of the tools that we have. I'm really excited at creating that future alongside you. Thank you so much for taking the time to join us and look forward to what you learn in the future. Thanks for having me.