Yeah, all right there's Longcat right there. This is my worst nightmare, this is worse than they're part of the short animal family, but I have nightmares about Longcat, so we have to where's Longcat? I think Longcat was the pink unless there's there's a King Boo back there wait this? That's not okay. We [laughs] cannot tolerate find out soon. Okay so, Longcat struggling out I just had such great items in third place. Had away from that villager [Music] I need these coins from so far back there, what the? Still need to go to the side go to the side phew. Oh couldn't was right back there I'm assuming I don't see get King Boo with me! I had to switch to the most energy and Longcat just switched to it as well, have the same idea as me of course. Longcat you're It would be a shame [laughs] I think they got I messed up trying to look at Longcat. Oh almost I'm slowing down. No! What? What what do you how by anything? Longcat you're so good! Whoa got hit Longcat throwing greens. No! I really thought didn't make it up. Just bananas this is not good I can get close. Oh longc- [laughs] no! Oh that good [Music] trap the shortcut! Someone still pass 2-0 lead, I'm going for the full 10-0 sweep on to get two King Boo teddies in the room though, but I just don't want it to be Longcat you know? important as long as no one throws a red shell double item here but I got bumped! Oh this is this is bad this is so bad I'm going [laughs] so uses- okay I ran I've never run into that [laughs] even more than that, I don't want to get hit by a message you know [Music] no it got me anyway! this is what happens you take your mind Okay, [Music] I've never taken this with a star attempt that with a star next time. It's fine if mushrooms though for the shortcut. Oh okay okay son! Nice! Okay that'll dodge me some chaos for items. This is really good [Music] yeah can't do anyway. Everything is just weird right now let's right there oh no! [laughs] I almost lost if that's 3-0! So the thing with playing against this was gonna be a first to 10 but, Longcat it's on you if you lose [laughs] you know exactly hit hit hit! Oh it actually got him off the glider didn't use the star cuz oh- maybe I should have not using the star. Coin and give me a coin this is not good Longcat has a star also. I just so close that item box is so important because like everyone ahead of you is really far so the becomes better. Ooh star? People are in bullets we'll use it now there's a red shell. Still have you have green shell stay to the side where you first? Okay I'll just use this later just up [Music] this will mess you up for sure nope! that's 4-0 [laughs] whoa! We top twoed I can't both started with. Good game Longcat! Yeah yeah Longcat on King Boo this isn't right this is the getting coin? Okay um should I be safe? I'm gonna and get the coins, didn't get it but it's fine drafting me okay so there goes my front run, at off them let's go oh we're just helping each other not working. Oh okay danger danger, Yoshis never They're swerving all over the I should not even be run into their banana, you can have first. Oh I even see so I'm glad they chose not to [laughs] come forward. No! My item, I have no protection we're at 10 coins and no blue shell for a while even lap three we could get a second blue shell so I might be okay. Let's drop this right here, just the Baby Daisy. No trick I hate that [laughs] even the way to go with King Boo? Doesn't seem shell but they're not throwing it they might be right there, it's gonna be hard for the red shell in the middle of the road, the red shell takes yep not working. Okay yeah they might have had two me because my banana blocks the first one. Yes That's what you get for being long! What a shame volatile track. I could get people coming back so and it's like a good time to try and front run I need to go for a few coins though just so this doing back there. I want blue shell defense oh! Or the shortcut oh I didn't get the people directly close to me they could hit me [Music] okay got at avoiding that Subway in the thin path now, I good line here. Oh! I thought I was good. I almost smart! I am so smart! I'm the smartest person the mushroom, it's fine though it's fine though with me [Music] this blooper! Oh I couldn't see What is- okay at least I dodged the part where the it's a bagging track and people are coming back oh okay I didn't even need to do that. Pfft! I where's the fight in you [laughs] I may be small easy on me [laughs] Ok! I feel like when I have just start focusing on the race way more and I up to the coins love it oh it wasn't going for me first part is weird because of the lag and you can and then you can't front run, but now that that nice. Okay I hit the wall that's not good that's messed up everything I always mess up that section point it's just Shortcat can't do that section. one [Music] oh this is not not good! Everyone took reds? Okay at least they're not gonna hit me with I got three items there but they're all single didn't go for me what?! [Music] and I could red shell so you can have first [Music] just don't nooo! You hit yourself! You idiot you're messing hit me! Come on come on! I saw Longcat at the I can't believe the inkling still got first you I'm not gonna force myself to bag here but we'll this okay I'm in first never mind just a bit of here, oh or that could happen but no no we're fine then. And Longcat is bagging! We'll see what's the is a bit lower than I'm used to now this used to this is good. Got a bit of air pocket as I charge for but it was still pretty good. What are you do- get out of here! Why?! I actually lost first place And why was there a banana there okay this is was so [laughs] dumb. This random Waluigi player or not Shortdog definitely Longcat's friend. It's in the back. There's a blue shell... I would have disappeared, but I'm definitely beating Longcat the Waluigi player got last who unleashed this definitely have an advantage over me on this track gonna go wide here and not try to front run too shortcut. Okay maybe I can go for it. Yeah I think important to back out of that shortcut, don't take it's pretty bad if you get bumped off. Nice nice My red shell could have hit myself [laughs] I was so fast that taking a shortcut doesn't even matter made me- you made me mess up I was ugh [Music] no this Waluigi [laughs] is the actual devil right This Waluigi's gonna bullet me [Music] okay! Still right now and there's Longcat this is bad this is the [laughs] weirdest thing ever oh good bananas! come for me. And another one didn't come for me. beat Longcat. This 6,000 player is freaking me out Longcat this is your last chance this is your last been all day? It was a bit tense at the beginning messed that up! Okay no trick get the mini turbo down slow down yes! [laughs] that's where you've you know best [laughs] oh I'm so mean [laughs] oh my karma. My karma is skill issue but it's okay coins up right now, hopefully get five right here. these, don't mind if I do. Here we go we're almost for Longcat! Nope! Longcat took the shortcut a red shell even though that doesn't help me that excuse that's- I just failed the shortcut twice item box hopefully I got them, got their item okay green shell almost hit me. Okay so here is Do not attempt that shortcut, if that happens to three, clearly I can't do it right now. Okay there you go! Shortcat better than Longcat don't look at don't look down there King Boo is was the end of it. Longcat's not responding what was going on with Longcat the whole time, let's just stay near Longcat the entire race what happens. Okay so I- Longcat's still in my if Longcat goes back I'm going back with them just you Longcat? Where are you right now? There you this time I'm not gonna red shell you nooo okay Longcat experience [laughs] I'm so sorry Longcat gonna hold these items I need to catch up- oh no succeeds the shortcut cuz it's not as easy as doing well. Oh oh there it is there it is here helped [laughs] Hi Longcat [laughs] oh no! [Music] got bulleted [laughs] of course! Okay Longcat with getting hit by everything this is so funny. Here didn't happen someone else got the star. Okay! meanwhile Longcat's getting hit by everything that Like I'm still gonna do better than Longcat I just little bullet extension wait for you to exit the done, Longcat's in the back I got second place, Shortcat over Longcat. You're so right! Everything funny I I want to keep playing I don't want to doesn't matter because the race hasn't finished place, this is a bagging track let's do some thing but this time let's do some bagging oh matters yet everything could still go my way. based on how this entire thing is gone [laughs] somebody who's clearly very good at the game, happens here what items am I getting, oh this is there's still time to make this comeback. I'm get two items your items are better ninth then are as good as they get starting in ninth place, gets the same items. I'm not gonna use my star is actually on this next item set and I'm gonna you get to take two shortcuts it's awesome! You're chaotic track okay kind of messing up now. Um I here, probably the best spot to use it [laughs] it just looks like a piranha plant racing that's don't need to use that tech anymore to play as a here on lap three we take one more shortcut and such a good race [laughs] like, unless there's now I have defense against both items. You know bad luck I feel like I've been disrespecting,