(logo beeping) - [Presenter] We've all been waiting a very long time for &quot;Elder Scrolls 6.&quot; After the announcement in 2018 at Bethesda's E3 presentation, we really haven't heard much official news about what'll probably be the So because the developers aren't talking, all we have are leaks and speculation. So here are 10 possible Don't count all this as We're just having fun here. Who knows? This game could still be but we wanted to talk about it today. So let's get started off with number 10. Traditionally, the &quot;Elder Scrolls&quot; RPGs jump to new and unexplored locations for every major sequel. You know, we visited Cyrodiil, Morrowind, and Skyrim in the newer style, like open-world RPG era of Bethesda here, but one leak points us to a location the series has been before. Hammerfell, the setting &quot;Elder Scrolls 2: Daggerfall&quot; was Hammerfell and High Rock, and while most of the purported leaks only mention Hammerfell, there's really no reason would be stuck to just one location. We could get two, who knows? We could get three. But maybe we're only getting one, and Hammerfell as of right now, looks to be the most likely. The Hammerfell leak comes from a Bethesda employee, reportedly. The image board features or images from any version It's all just ideas, inspiration, and random bits of art that light our brains on fire. The Pinterest board in question but all the desert images and North African culture show off a totally different version of the &quot;Elder Scrolls,&quot; at least if you didn't play This isn't another standard sword-and-sorcery setting like &quot;Oblivion.&quot; &quot;Skyrim&quot; and especially &quot;Morrowind,&quot; like really branched out to show us different settings for so why couldn't we swap snowy mountains for sandy deserts, who knows? The region of Hammerfell features lush jungles, and a bunch of other stuff. We know this because Hammerfell and the islands surrounding it were featured pretty heavily That also means you'd be working with the Redguard culture, which is one group of humans we haven't really heard much about in this long-running series. We're all about seeing and we have no idea if these leaks even really point to anything real. The inspiration could be for one region among many in a sequel, or it could be nothing. While we are saying all this about leaks and speculation, you can also infer the Hammerfell location from the original announcement trailer back in 2018. Just watch it, and you can see a crater, white birds, mountains in the distance, and more, that suggests that we're moving out of the familiar. Fans are convinced, so yeah, it's something to look at. Next at number nine, from that same leak we mentioned, fans quickly latched on to a school of underwater fish. Underwater areas and ocean areas are things that we haven't really explored too much in detail yet in these games, and commandeering your own boat would be the kind of big feature the series needs to add after Bethesda introduced Being able to create your own personal was easily one of the and it was a feature that, like for all the game's faults, it did make it feel really unique and stand out from like We'd love to build our own boat and fight pirates on the seven seas, or however many seas are in the world of &quot;Elder Scrolls.&quot; The region is perfect between High Rock and Hammerfell, there's like a big sea with plenty of islands to explore, mysteries to solve, and bad guys to fight. There's also rampant piracy, so shooting it out with is probably a thing. The most interesting detail that's also total unbridled is that hey, maybe we finally get some underwater Many of 'em have underwater but like we wouldn't A full underwater world to explore would add a totally different and new layer of complexity kind of like in the way &quot;Tears of Kingdom&quot; added that whole entire underground world. Would Bethesda actually do any of that? We're not holding our breath, but again, we're having fun, we can always dream. Next at number eight, while there's a whole lot of leaks and speculations swirling around from you know, all these unsubstantiated sources, one of the prevailing fan theories is that the Thalmor will feature heavily in &quot;Elder Scrolls 6.&quot; And there are some pretty but let's talk more about some of the biggest The Thalmor are evil high elves that started the Great War and conquered much of the Empire in the time of &quot;Skyrim.&quot; This powerful faction with lore breaking down their involvement in the Great War, their tyranny, and just kind of being evil guys that literally everyone seems to hate. They're high elves, they think they're better and they wear black robes. They're kind of natural bad-guy vibes. And so far in the modern they've basically been background players. In &quot;Skyrim,&quot; you complete this fun mission to infiltrate the Thalmor Embassy, but like otherwise, they aren't the big villains you'd think they'd be. And Hammerfell, if it does appear In &quot;Elder Scrolls 6,&quot; has its own connection. The people of Hammerfell signed apparently a separate peace treaty with the Thalmor, becoming the only the Empire and the Thalmor don't control. Just imagine a &quot;Casablanca&quot; situation, like a neutral nation between two invading powers. That's the kind of drama we would expect from an Now at number seven, of course, the next &quot;Elder Scrolls&quot; will most likely probably only appear on Microsoft platforms. At least at first. So that means the Xbox family of consoles and PC at launch. This is both official because the decision through court documents. According to documents from that FTC versus Microsoft case, the &quot;Elder Scrolls 6&quot; is expected to be released in around 2026, and it will be an exclusive. That means we won't see &quot;Elder Scrolls 6&quot; on Nintendo Switch or PS5. Microsoft has changed This situation at Microsoft, you know, we've talked about it here at Gameranx, it's pretty weird, it's a little unpredictable. If Microsoft announced was releasing on PS5 tomorrow, it wouldn't be a total surprise. They've been dropping lots of their former exclusives especially single-player games. So unless &quot;Elder Scrolls 6&quot; has like live-service elements and always-online features, literally anything is possible. And I seriously, seriously doubt Bethesda is going to load down &quot;Elder Scrolls 6&quot; with any of the &quot;Fallout 76&quot; online baggage. Actually, we do kind of know that there won't be any in &quot;Elder Scrolls 6,&quot; thanks to Todd Howard, you know, the big guy at Bethesda? If he says there's no multiplayer, it's probably because it's true. He also lets slip another interesting bit of information we'll talk about next. At number six, that same interview with Todd Howard that we mentioned, it was on gamesindustry.biz. It revealed a very quick important detail about the release of &quot;Elder Scrolls 6.&quot; Whenever it comes out, the game will be available on the Xbox Game Pass day one with no extra charge. If you're subscribed to Game Pass, you'll get access, which is already a little bit not true. A few months back, Xbox announced a new tier that doesn't have access to new games on day one. So if you're subscribed to which is the most expensive tier, then you'll be able to without any additional charges, probably. As long as Microsoft doesn't change Game Pass again within the next few years, who knows, God knows. Next at number five, we do have to keep talking about some of these comments from Todd Howard, because he did drop some Randomized elements will says Todd Howard still riding high, before the release of &quot;Starfield&quot; brought all those back down the earth. After the initial acquisition of Bethesda by Microsoft, Todd Howard expressed will make a big impact What that actually means is a mystery. We can't know what the developers at Bethesda are planning, but after playing through &quot;Starfield,&quot; we definitely have a better understanding of the limits of procedural generation. In &quot;Starfield,&quot; the are all linear and fully designed by developers, handmade. But a lot of the planets are randomized, which sounds a lot more The planets might look a little different, have some different hills, where there might be or the colors are different, but the actual procedural generation seem pretty limited. It didn't generate a lot and we didn't even get Still, &quot;Elder Scrolls 6&quot; could benefit from that technology. At least it could help the developers generate all those caves, and forests, and catacombs you explore and then curate them to save time. I have no idea, but I really hope if Bethesda is serious about procedural generation they really work at it and they make sure that they find the fun in it. Now over at number four with a new &quot;Elder Scrolls,&quot; there will be new hardware to purchase. That same FTC versus Microsoft case we mentioned before also leaked a new upgrade that enhances the console, kind of like the PS5 Pro. That console is scheduled but apparently that isn't the only console in the pipeline. Persistent leaks are pointing at a pair of new consoles You've probably heard this before, but just to be clear, like this larger, more powerful traditional console unit, and then also the rumor like the Nintendo Switch. Those were once rumored to be in the far-off horizons of 2028, but with Xbox Console sales seemingly dropping across the board, Microsoft may push to release a new Xbox system before 2028. Even if the console did come out in 2028, we might still get &quot;Elder Scrolls&quot; as a launch title for that, who knows? Court documents might expect a 2026 release date for &quot;Elder Scrolls,&quot; but anyone familiar with has to know better. We aren't getting this game until probably 2027 at the earliest, that's just a spit-balling, but yeah. Now over at number three, this next &quot;Elder Scrolls&quot; from the formula, and that means we're on Creation Engine 2. The new version of was developed for &quot;Starfield.&quot; The developers at Bethesda are gonna apparently use it again, whether that's a good idea or not. The Creation Engine still has bits of code originating from &quot;Morrowind&quot; There are flaws that still from the same exact engines, so don't expect a lot of that will fix issues like performance getting stuff like that might never change, unless they do a whole complete overhaul that we don't know about yet. What will change are the graphics. &quot;Starfield&quot; is a pretty big step-up from &quot;Skyrim&quot; in terms of visuals, and the Creation Engine 2 might make &quot;Elder Scrolls 6&quot; a much prettier game? We hope so. What to expect? At least looking at Creation Engine 2 and looking at &quot;Starfield,&quot; at the very least, better post-processing effects, global Illumination, and some other visual upgrades. Now, down at number two. One fact we've had confirmed over and over by developers is that the skill system will be simplified, compared to what we got in &quot;Starfield.&quot; There are 82 skills in &quot;Starfield,&quot; which I think we can all agree is a lot, maybe too many. In comparison, &quot;Skyrim&quot; has a grand total of 18 skills to level up. We're probably not going to see a return of the challenge like it instead of simply earning XP by performing your skill you'd have to complete small challenges in &quot;Starfield&quot; to even progress, like kill X amount of guys and then you level up. To level up your skills, you'd end up having to for the simplest skills. That's in addition to earning XP and skill points to spend. It's one of the more disliked changes to a leveling system in a while, and really, none of that is required for &quot;Elder Scrolls 6.&quot; In Skyrim, your hero uses a skill and earns XP in that skill. Earn enough, and you'll Both &quot;Fallout 4&quot; and and while &quot;Elder Scrolls 6&quot; will probably have its own unique wrinkles to the formula, I think the feedback over They've talked a lot about how they like to pare things down, and let game systems so you're not staring at numbers, so I hope they can find a good balance between it still feeling complex to feel like an RPG, but be a little more Now at number one, the biggest and most dubious leak comes from like, to be honest, a totally unsubstantiated post on 4chan. Take it all of a grain of salt, but like of course, it Normally these types of fake leaks aren't worth discussing, but this one is so weirdly specific, it'd be fun to talk about. The supposed leak details the factions we'll be able to join, the dragons that'll be appearing, and even that a new type of word wall will appear to unlock Even &quot;Starfield&quot; had shouts, kind of, so we wouldn't be surprised if the new &quot;Elder Scrolls&quot; The real big guess here is all this other stuff, Void Gods, Nocturnal, The void is where the and Sithis is the God that rules the void. Sithis isn't mentioned in This is a daedric prince worshiped by the Thieves Guild in &quot;Skyrim.&quot; That's an oddly specific along with the Emperor. As we've discussed before, the region of Hammerfell It isn't ruled by the This suggests that the Empire might be getting into the daedra business, which isn't a terrible guess. We haven't fought an evil empire in a long time in &quot;Elder Scrolls,&quot; and their desire to defeat the more powerful Thalmor might push them to make a deal with the literal &quot;Elder Scrolls&quot; devils. This last leak might be a total fake, but we're intrigued It's kind of fun. Daedra and their portals featured heavily in &quot;Oblivion,&quot; so it's about time they made a big, splashy return. Just imagine a war in Hammerfell between the Empire and the Thalmor. Working a little bit like a big &quot;Skyrim&quot; civil war quest. We guessed that another basically has to be in &quot;Elder Scrolls 6,&quot; but again, who knows? A lot of the stuff is speculation, rumors, and some sketchy leaks, but it's fun to think about. Those are 10 things, 10 potential changes to &quot;Elder Scrolls 6&quot; that may have leaked one way or another. These things can change, the game only started so who knows what the developers at Bethesda will decide. It's their game, so we'll see. Ultimately, we just wanna play something, they announced this Either way, let us know in the comments what you think about &quot;Elder Scrolls 6.&quot; We know the anticipation is high, we know the pressure is high, especially after some so let us know how you're feeling. If you like this video and you like kind of just talking about random stuff with us every day, clicking the like button helps us out. We really appreciate it. But as always, thanks for watching, and we'll see you guys next time.