Friday April 13, 1945, America is petrified. Franklin Roosevelt, the president of the United States, while the Second World War Roosevelt More than anyone else, he embodied the hope of seeing on better grounds. As the crowd watches the whole planet Without Roosevelt, Westerners and Soviets And to build lasting peace? April 12, 1945, Washington, at the White House. Three hours after Roosevelt's death, Harry Truman becomes He enters the scene In this month of April 1945, America is still at war To make nothing simpler, It's barely been three months since And nothing predestined him the new president of the United States. He is a former salesman He launched and was elected senator for the If Roosevelt It's not for his skills. He took it for considerations while thinking he was rubbish, When we choose the vice president, it is not necessarily because it's often him places we need. In the space of a day, the old Missouri trader therefore finds himself propelled to the head He himself is stunned and doesn't hide it. On the front page of the press, journalists tell Guys, if you pray, I don't know if a boot but when they told me I had the impression that the moon, had fallen on me. Still, remembers that his grandfather to be the man for the job. He wasn't prepared for all this. He said &quot;there must be a million to perform this function. It fell on me, so I will do everything He was the kind of man who The task promises to be tough. We must rebuild the world But Truman has no During the three months Roosevelt never met him Truman was not informed of anything. I think my grandfather was wrong He was perfectly aware but I think to associate Truman with his decisions Two months before dying, Roosevelt had met It is there, in Crimea, that the big three The sealed agreements Each of the allies From all these discussions, It needs to update He's a pragmatist So he continues Will this hard work be enough? The little tie merchant from Missouri will he manage to do One month after arrival the Allies win the war in Europe. Across the continent, In London, a human tide The British Prime Minister Yet despite this moment of euphoria, Churchill looks drawn. The smile on his lips In his memoirs he writes: Weary, exhausted, and now triumphant. We knew Yet, few hearts were to be What can there be The problem for Churchill Now that the Briton is convinced to establish wherever he can. Already, unlike the Soviet leader installed Poland, six non-communist ministers but they have every day Stalin wanted It was by ideology, but it was also because it was a dictator The British Prime Minister The brand new For now, to respect He is not willing against its communist ally. Churchill can only hope The opportunity will soon be given to him. July 16, 1945, Berlin airport. The American President's plane Truman goes to Europe On this occasion, and make up your own mind about them. The discussions a few kilometers from Berlin. To get there, Berlin is nothing more than a field of ruins. Only a few This spectacle of desolation and will push him to want to help That evening, in his diary, he wrote: I had never seen a show We saw young women what they could The conference opens the next day, July 17. Here at Cecilienhof Palace, this is the only time when Stalin, will all meet together. As Truman expected, As for Stalin, his advisors never stop talking to him However, very quickly, takes the measure of the man I can deal with Stalin. He is honest For his part, Stalin, For him, Stalin has little information about him his spies and what told him about it had let him predict of slack and that we were going to be able Now, when Truman says no, it means no. Because against all odds, the American president It is in no way Question of character no doubt, Truman feels in a position of strength because he is waiting for information who could make him At the same time, in the United States, an event As he negotiates, the American president On the second day of negotiations, Finally, The doctor comes on the fact that the little boy The light in his eyes and I could have heard her screams This little boy in question, Since four years, the best scientists on the planet, are working to develop Operation code name: Trinity. The first atomic test The power of the explosion Never such power Only one weapon now has the power After some hesitation, This is bad news, This means that from now on, Soviet Union Everyone was watching And Stalin, says: &quot;I congratulate you and I hope that Stalin Despite protective measures the Russians managed to introduce where the atomic bomb was made. Among them, This German physicist fled Nazism. Fuchs is also because he is a convinced communist. For two years, all the plans for the American bomb. With this information, the Soviets began to Despite this, on July 24, that the bomb he gets nervous. Stalin hates nothing He summoned the people and he asked and to all those that he wanted us to speed up as much as possible creation This bomb will become As long as he doesn't have the generalissimo will not feel Relations with Truman Potsdam will also In the middle of the conference, to go to London where he must As a convinced democrat, the British Prime Minister Since weeks, while he is in the countryside, But on election morning, at dawn, I suddenly woke up as if someone and I felt The power to shape Churchill's intuition was correct. To everyone's amazement, he is not re-elected. To the war hero, Labor leader Clement Attlee. The day after his victory, Attlee slides into the chair, Around the table, everyone Clement Attlee is someone Churchill said Or an empty car and Major Attlee gets out. A modest man And there, because he was convinced that Churchill had done everything Because for Stalin, who is worthy of his position. Facing an Attlee Stalin takes matters into his own hands. He is the last Now, with Attlee, Britain The world only counts the United States and the Soviet Union. Truman and Stalin Very quickly, the disagreements that exist and transform Five days after Potsdam, which will have serious consequences. The United States will use The tension with Stalin August 6, 1945, in the early hours of the morning, the American bomber Enola Gay At 8:15 a.m., A gigantic mushroom Temperature 70,000 people were killed instantly. The city is nothing more than Three days later, August 9, it's Nagasaki's turn to be bombed. The whole world is in shock. For Stalin, He is convinced that Truman He doesn't understand that while on August 8, the Soviet Union entered the war For us, was clearly that the use was not intended to win but to scare the Soviet Union in order to be able to dictate Clearly, Truman wanted and save American lives. But it is also clearly Because Truman intends to let him know Since then, Stalin wants to know by what margin so he will test it. In Yalta, territories in exchange Sakhalin Island, and a railway line But Stalin now demands, In a telegram sent to Truman, &quot;Russian public opinion &quot;receive an area of occupancy "She would be seriously offended &quot;I hope that my modest Then he changes his mind and adds "Will not encounter any objection." The American president is ulcerated. His answer is straightforward. It's no. Grandfather was waiting for people He was like that that people When he discovered and that Stalin he started to negotiate with him Stalin also decided He will push his advantage in Europe. Rigged elections, power grabs. Wherever he can, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Bulgaria are about to fall This creeping Stalinization But the American president is The telegram that lands on his desk His author, a simple diplomat Kennan had time to observe He understood that he wanted and he is convinced is to show firmness. In a long telegram he describes the mode The Kremlin has with regard to world affairs, which comes from his Russian instinct Russians are impervious and very sensitive to the logic of force. Kennan explains that he is useless Anyway, does not want to be reassured since But on the other hand, because he understands the balance of power Stalin is ready to step down. Kennan's analysis confirms everything that was anticipated From then on, the change of direction is complete. Truman splits considered too soft with regard to and promotes new men. In the process, as special advisor. There remains one difficulty for Truman, make public opinion understand The operation promises to be delicate Stalin is the great ally. The one who allowed The press never stopped They suffered four years who shows them Stalin and America's best ally This propaganda Stalin is also The American president then had an idea. He will use and let him announce Churchill enjoys No one will dare And then, will surely be delighted Since his defeat in the elections, he is going through a period This March 5, 1946, the whole little town took out the flags to The sun is shining brightly. Truman, is all smiles. The American president knows that the but it will keep well A few minutes later, Churchill gives a speech and shake the whole world. From Stettin in the Baltic an iron curtain has fallen The speech The Americans are shocked. Stalin, their great friend. It was strategically to let Churchill speak and use this expression because it showed and to world opinion that this turnaround Wasn't just Truman's doing but only a personality was going in the direction Soon, Americans who admired Stalin will consider it In the USSR, pass for a moment Stalin is furious. Intellectuals are headstrong against Churchill. Churchill was the enemy He was the greatest leader He spent his whole life doing From now on, European countries that of communism or capitalism. In this race Stalin is one step ahead. He has already got his hands on and is gaining ground in the West. In France and Italy, entered the government. How far will Stalin extend Revolutionary France in 1792. The question haunts Truman and the American president understood that in this standoff he had an adversary against him Nearly two years after the end of Europe has still not recovered. The Old Continent is on the verge of chaos. Truman is perfectly aware that But before acting, he needs to have At the beginning of 1947, Truman dispatches This senator from Montana His report is frightening. In all the countries visited, tuberculosis and diseases. In Italy, the majority of the population remains ranging from 75 to 125 grams. She barely eats anything else. After reading this report, If he does not come to the aid of the Europeans, he will leave the field open Truman then decides entrusted to General George Marshall, the new American Secretary of State. Raw materials, machine tools, tons of material are transported Behind its generous appearance, the Marshall plan who need to revive their economy. It was also a way Because you can't you must have Therefore, if the United States, who had profited from the war, could not because other countries that meant that The Marshall Plan is also a weapon because American aid including Eastern countries. And of course, the Eastern countries which are also need it a lot. Czechoslovakia, Poland, But what will win? The Marshall Plan was perceived like the plan by the American imperialists. All this was unacceptable to Stalin. Eastern countries are ordered to fall into line. Sixteen countries in total All to the West. France, the United Kingdom and Italy In mid-1947, the curtain A city will pay the price between Westerners and Soviets. Berlin. The German capital is located right in the But the city itself is busy UNITED STATES, France and USSR. Together, everyone must deliver But the allies are not Priority for the Soviets because the USSR is ruined. As provided for in the peace agreements, and dismantle German industry. Entire factories are being cut up and brought to the Soviet Union Opposite, the Americans, As they promised the Americans gave We on our side, but we were not able We couldn't compete. West, while the eastern sector The Americans would like to go further in order to revive the German economy. Stalin opposes this. He wants to maintain the status quo. What Stalin wants, that is, that there is on both sides of Berlin and that the isolated West Berliners, end up falling This capitalist enclave what is East Germany, To break the deadlock, Westerners do not see This will cause, Until what point ? The generalissimo Before acting, And that's why, spying. However, at the start of the Cold War, the American secret services It is, moreover, interesting to note in 1942, the Roosevelt administration created and that this service at the end So between 1945 and 1947, the United States has no service In the summer of 1947, Truman therefore decided to create which will soon be known Henry Hillenkoetter, a former admiral is appointed at its head. Hillenkoetter has and to train The problem is that we have to find and apart from the Russians themselves, there aren't many people. For this former agent this posed serious difficulties. The problem was knowing to someone who was Russian by birth in the case of important secrets. because we never had he wouldn't work too Hillenkoetter then leaves in a hurry. In pragmatics, it's among the enemies that he is going to recruit his spies. Reinhardt Gehlen, a former Nazi ex-intelligence chief is recycled by the CIA. Gehlen knows very well He will become the brains of Through him, hundreds Americans The only thing that matters to Truman, The sky has changed. The cold war, the enemy, it wasn't Germany, limit, take people who are Of course, former Nazis are So there we are in Faced with the CIA, the Russian secret service of the GRU They are one step ahead have existed since Berlin will become In the street, in the army, All, whatever their side, have the same objective which is to to get ahead of him. Spying, in which We penetrated the heart As Truman asked them, Gehlen and his men seek to know if Westerners In late spring 1948, German spies On June 9, Hillenkoetter warns According to the head of the CIA, if Westerners this is how Stalin would react. The USSR will probably ensure to put sticks in Berlin and everywhere else but without resorting to force. It's the green light that Four days later Americans, British and French create the Deutsche Mark. For Stalin, is a provocation. He must mark the occasion. Like German spies the generalissimo then decides On June 24, 1948, he cuts off all the The roads that connect Germany to Two and a half million Without food, In Washington, part of his staff The American President Supply Berlin by air. He didn't want to trigger It was even But he didn't want and show that we did not react. Because if you let Next, I don't believe the idea but he accepted it Four days after the start of the blockade, huge American cargo planes In their bowels, and the famous CARE packages. These packages, contain Bacon, margarine, Taste of America. What Stalin it's that the Americans, the English to maintain for 11 months a supply from West Berlin at a rate of 6,000 tonnes per day. That is to say, every day, at the three Berlin airfields, there is a plane For a year, the Berliners will live who take turns day and night Despite American aid, To hold on, We see appear Vegetables, soon, To warm up too, Americans then the Berliners The trees are uprooted. No more benches On the stairs, Coats, bags, shoes. Berliners lack everything, The Americans, too, And as Gehlen predicted, Stalin does not give the order He was not ready to go to war because The Soviet Union could not while we had during the Second World War. Understanding that he has lost on May 12, 1949, Everywhere in West Berlin, For the communist leader, The little shopkeeper from Missouri made the man bend In his memoirs, He knows that in the race he has just scored a decisive point. The blockade had quickly returned Germany, towards whom she would throw was now turning It does exactly who always wanted to sow It seals reconciliation and friendship between the German people They have become extremely popular. These are the men Fifteen days after the blockade was lifted, Westerners create The Soviets responded with This time, yesterday's allies are To the White House, A visionary, he wrote: &quot;At the end of the day, our policy on the continent where there are only three solutions: a disintegration or a terrible war.&quot; This threat of a terrible war weighs Stalin did not digest He is trying to regain the upper hand. Through effort, he will, once again, On August 29, 1949, to the amazement of Westerners, the Russians blow up Fuchs's information ended up bearing fruit. Intelligence services to accelerate the creation of and they allowed us Our scientists received by our secret services allowed us to shorten from ten to five years. For Truman, the surprise was great. He never would have imagined that take so little time Stalin feels strong again. Soviet Union The world enters This cold war, Raymond Aron saying it's an impossible war, impossible because it would be atomic, improbable peace. Impossible war, improbable peace. Conflicts, in fact, But they will remain local Because never blood between Americans At the risk of causing It's in a small country, would be located on the map, that the first of these conflicts Korea. Since 1945, Korea, is busy on both sides To the south, the Americans. To the north, the Soviets. Since that time, Kim Il-sung, seeks to reunify his country. Many times, The Soviet always refused. However, on January 12, 1950, the generalissimo changes his mind. Because of a very small sentence the American secretary of state, That day, in his speech on Acheson wrote: "Our defensive perimeter is expanding &quot; Passing by He forgot Korea. This is the stupid thing not to do. There was Taiwan, there was everything, it's not smart. It's curious for someone Finally, he made a mistake and it was taken by Stalin And he said to himself that after all, Americans Stalin then gave the green light to On June 25, 1950, at 4 a.m., the North Korean army crosses Truman, on weekend is immediately notified. The American President We must respond with force. In his memoirs, he remembers. If such a scenario were not this signified the start of a Because these are similar incidents who had caused The Americans did not expect They have practically no troops there. The North Koreans are making progress and capture Seoul Truman is extremely concerned. How will this all end? The president writes to his wife. I hope I don't have to give Truman will not need because he can count on a man, Great hero he is responsible for administering Japan. He knows Asia well In a few months, MacArthur manages to resume In November 1950, the Americans have almost They are very close The Cold War threatens because since 1949, Mao then dispatches to help Here too, we finally notice, That he doesn't want and he uses this artifice to, in a way, There is, of course, not theorized, Everyone moves forward, but each so that the cold war don't become global and nuclear For Truman, this situation is psychologically exhausting. In his diary he writes: what hell to be the president of I would rather be The American President other than "the white prison". In Korea, the conflict is bogged down and it's a totally event Stalin will disappear. March 1, 1953, Kuntsevo Dacha, Stalin now lives here as a recluse. The man who does locked himself into a paranoid delirium. He is afraid of being murdered. That night, he drank a lot. In the night, For ten hours, he is dying without anyone Everyone is too scared He died alone. And all those who could have cared for him, He could have gotten over it. When the old sidekicks arrive, the Khrushchevs, the Berias, and all these people, Because that could be blamed on them, but the doctors are afraid. They don't even dare to make a diagnosis And he said to them: and be careful what you find. Lack of proper care. After four days of agony, on March 5, 1953, As soon as the news was known, five million people Everyone wants to see the remains of the one for a quarter of a century. Many people Praise God. Many others and they were stunned by the fact The third feeling that dominated "What will happen now?" The whole world is in shock. While Molotov and those close to him everyone thinks about what's next. In Moscow, people hope will put an end to tensions. Hopes will quickly be disappointed. Eight years of constant conflict and larvae between have shaped the world to this extent, that it is impossible The Cold War initiated by Stalin and make it tremble February 1945. For six years, Europe has been Millions of men died. But this time, the certainty of and the Allies are already thinking about the future. Because it is now, while that we must prepare for peace. Stalin, Roosevelt and Churchill This meeting will take place from the south of the Soviet Union. It's there, in Crimea, that the three giants the post-war world during one of the biggest the Yalta conference. From Yalta, history has remembered this photo. But what a path Why these tense faces United in war, the Allies will For eight days, the big three are going both their interests In Yalta, it's the last time Each of them is then while with this conference, the world will soon darken February 3, 1945. After seven hours of flight, gone into the night, land on the frozen ground When he got off the plane, He has a fever of 39. But the Prime Minister Even sick, he is ready Franklin Roosevelt, President despite extreme fatigue. On the track, diplomats In Yalta, many of them Thanks to their confidences, we know what really happened Their writings tell everything that Stalin did not deign His absence is already a way Negotiations have indeed begun. It is therefore Molotov, the faithful who is waiting for Roosevelt Eaten away by poliomyelitis, On foot at his side, Churchill The strangeness of this scene Churchill's personal physician, "The Prime Minister followed like when, an Indian steward accompanied And it's not Churchill will appear Because already, while the British Empire The United States and the Soviet Union In Yalta, Churchill goes Yalta is 150 kilometers from Saki. It takes no less The road is so bad and winding. For Roosevelt, He was paralyzed. To travel by car, with two cushions and support his legs It was truly As the war continues the course has been placed 160 combat planes crisscross the sky. Anna Boettiger, Roosevelt's daughter is amazed to see the means In her diary she writes: &quot; All along soldiers had been Everytime those who did not have a gun All these Russian soldiers, women Through the window, Roosevelt and Churchill Crimea was recaptured Nearly 20 million 70,000 towns and villages The USSR was And Stalin himself supervised so that no destruction This will allow Stalin, somehow, Roosevelt first. We have a lot of deaths, implied After five o'clock Roosevelt and Churchill arrive Roosevelt is exhausted. For him, the journey has begun when he crossed the Atlantic in In total, the American president Churchill 3,200, and Stalin, As if the number and that Roosevelt was the one Stalin least. Yalta Bay In the 19th century, it was a where tsars and aristocrats The participants in palaces Before the negotiations they had been completely restored. In anticipation of the conference, of things that came to make an appearance who had suffered a terrible Stalin imposed the choice of Yalta. He therefore wants his guests He will receive them with magnificence. He reserved for them The Livadia Palace for Roosevelt. It is here that took place And the Vorontsov villa for Churchill. That night, Each of the big three takes February 4, 1945. First day of negotiations. Before the debates begin, Stalin pays a visit To Churchill first. The two men have not seen each other since They are happy to meet again and The reunion with Roosevelt The Russian and the American share And the lemon is missing. Stalin takes note, he brings in a gigantic lemon tree. It impresses them, because for the English a whole lemon tree, in full it's something fabulous. They are literally dazzled. And, at the same time, it serves Because on the ground, Since spring, the roll and the Red Army takes over For Stalin, the time to monetize At 5:00 p.m., In the Livadia ballroom, everything is ready. Ministers and diplomats discuss Churchill is the first The Prime Minister is in a good mood and wearing a Russian hat He's getting better. After a good night of Stalin arrives after him. In front of the cameras, Roosevelt, for his part, had already settled in The same thing will repeat itself He forbade us to film his He had to be carried from his chair Which is not easy when you The private advisors of the three Because they are not going to negotiate alone. Churchill is accompanied by Anthony Eden, as well as the diplomat Alexander Roosevelt will rely on the man he trusts the most, but also on Edward Statinius, Stalin has two main advisors: Vyacheslav Molotov, and the diplomat Ivan Maisky. Four big files are on the table: the fate of defeated Germany, that of Poland, the UN and the war against Japan. On all these files, the position will play a determining role. Since December, Bulgaria, Hungary and Poland. The Russians are no longer Slowed down by a the Anglo-American troops, We can say that the Soviets are clearly and, from this point of view, which can have consequences In addition to this asymmetry on the ground, there is another, ideological. Churchill and Roosevelt are However, they do not necessarily On the contrary. Because in fact, the two men are quite Roosevelt appreciates Churchill, because he stood alone in Europe in 1940, and that he admires this guy who is still and, at the same time, a certain contempt, because he considers that it is while he considers notably the decolonization of the world. Roosevelt needs Because at the same time in the Pacific, Americans are The fights are incredibly violent and the Japanese do not hesitate to rather than surrender. Without help from the Soviets, Roosevelt also counts on Stalin to participate in the future that he wants to put in place. Without the USSR, To advance your project, He is an acquired ally Churchill saw this very badly. He knows very well any discrepancy So for him, Because the British Prime Minister communist regimes in Without Roosevelt's help, Churchill knows he will not have During this first day, only Everyone observes each other. In the tactical game which begins, He suggests that Roosevelt By putting him as president, somewhere, we flatter him, but also, we reduce it because he will have to And meanwhile, we can negotiate It's very clever This first session Nothing important is decided there, that it would not be easy to do So, in the evening, everyone Churchill thinks alone and calmly, admiring the paintings that Stalin had the attention to hang Roosevelt, for his part, developed his plan to Second day. Churchill arrives first again, while Stalin is This time things The question of Germany is under debate. What fate awaits Germany How to administer it? What repairs are required? On all these questions, Discussions begin Since 1944, the country would be divided American, British and Soviet. But now Churchill for France. He doesn't want to be alone anymore who want a little He therefore wants to have this complicity Stalin finally, good prince, will say: the French did not We don't see why. They collaborated. They gave in very quickly in 1940. They don't deserve it. But anyway, okay, but then you take it The concession costs him nothing. Stalin quickly gives in. But he takes the opportunity to ask He wants to get the most The USSR is ruined. The Boches must pay. This revanchist perspective And this time, both If we plunder Germany and starve how do we get it up afterwards? It will necessarily be on our own funds, and we are the ones who will pay So it's bad, it's not good. Faced with this refusal, Stalin turned away. Annoyed, he becomes suspicious. The Soviet attacks Frankly, Why don't you want Are there no ulterior motives? not wanting reconstruction Why do you want So much for the threat. Now the bluff. Stalin is going to pull out all the stops. And for this, he will rely with whom he forms an unparalleled duo. Both men are masters Molotov is the hard version, it's Mr. &quot;niet&quot;. He's the one who's not funny, who will generally stay And, in general, the moment it will be to soften the angles, to say: "Finally, In the German case, for the amount of repairs. Nothing has been decided Only a minimum In his diary, the diplomat "Molotov, who was sitting leans towards him Do I have to give an amount? -Yes, give the amount, -Which ? Five or ten? -Ten, Stalin says. >> It's a way of showing that nothing is completely decided, for the interlocutors who are opposite. 10 billion for the Soviet Union. It goes. Nobody says anything. Stalin then considered Westerners did not dare to react. But this decision will have Because faced with a Germany the Soviets will compensate themselves in kind After this first round of negotiations, each of the big three withdraws Like he usually does, and prepares the next day's debates. At his office, even today, At the Livadia Palace, Roosevelt, find some rest and For several years, and Roosevelt took it with him everywhere. She didn't just offer companionship She was very We live and I would say that she was rather who was not paid. It was a bit like his right arm. 15 kilometers away, in Vorontsov, The young woman is an actress she is a volunteer assistant Churchill likes The girls are delighted to participate. At the same time, they are very happy to show and at the same time, We can make them do things For example, Churchill because he works in his bed. He is in his bath all the time to get him out of bed On the other hand, you can send your daughter. In the evening, as during the big three are going to invite each other to dinner. The opportunity to continue The first of these dinners The Americans provide the service, And Stalin made a point of honor You have 15, 20 or 30 course dinners, with caviar, Cream is rationed in England, We forgot. In the meantime, the people but it has no The whole thing is This is Georgian and Russian munificence. It is: I can do anything. As a host, Psychologically, I am your master, but, It's beautiful and at the same time threatening. So that means we are entirely dependent This is Yalta, among others. So that its guests feel comfortable and Stalin planned everything. At the table, alcohol flows freely. We know very well that the interlocutor must And drinking is part of it, means that are made available And there, there is a whole game, Alcohol played a role This first dinner brought the Allies closer together. Trust was established. Negotiations begin So that everyone plenary sessions take place But in the morning, the collaborators are at work They imagine compromises It's then up to the big three to decide. On the third day of negotiations, February 6, the Polish file arrives on the table. This is the most difficult of the conference. It is also the most symbolic, because it is The Allies must put But they don't agree on anything. Stalin has always represents a danger to his country. Because throughout history, that Russia has been invaded. Stalin therefore wants In fact, he wishes all around the Soviet Union The Soviets wanted Everyone knew that, for the Russians, it was a central point And when you think about it, if you were a big country you wouldn't want to have You would like friendly states. But what is a friendly country? Is it a friendly country which simply has a foreign policy and who, in domestic politics, Or is a friendly country, is a country that is going to be communized? That's the big question. For the British, no question of having declared so that she becomes a communist. At the end of the conflict, Churchill wants Poland Britain was The English did a lot They did not want a country in terms of trade comes under communist domination For Roosevelt, far from Europe, But she still There are 6 million American citizens And these American citizens vote that is to say, for the party of Roosevelt. It is therefore very sensitive These Polish citizens are fiercely anti-communist. Most of them before the First World War, Stalin agreed These Poles in America, support the Polish president in exile in London since 1940. The problem is that in front of him, communist this time. This government under influence It is located right in the middle and calls itself the Lublin Committee. The London government Because six months ago, August 1944. At that time, the Red Army was Raczkiewicz, in London, decides He wants the resistance before the communists, in order to keep But the German response was fierce. For 63 days, Knowingly, Stalin lets this happen and 200,000 Poles The Polish capital 2 months later, and install a government In Yalta, behavior Churchill never digested the Warsaw resistance fighters There, he understood that he did not have and that we could therefore not that he was dealing with a dangerous bandit, and that, ultimately, even if it were necessary we were going to have real problems But now, in Yalta, Allies must form together The whole issue is knowing which entity Obviously, from the point we must build from the different components From the point of view it's just about leaving as it exists in Warsaw A standoff begins. Stalin does not want to hear On the other hand, every time take a step towards him to bring into Why would he accept? Stalin knows he is Soviet troops They occupied these countries, even if we didn't dare At any rate, In a way, the influence The Allies fail Little by little, the tone rises. Stalin is becoming more and more agitated. By his side, In his diary, he recounts the scene. "Suddenly Stalin stood up and said Such behavior when wasn't really appropriate. He started to speak Stalin is a very taciturn person except a few times So, these moments Getting up and to suddenly have it's a way of showing the things on which The Soviet tirade Hopkins, who witnesses the catastrophe, who chairs the debates. "Why not end it? Say we'll talk about it again Better stop the fees and try to leave The mastery with which stands out to everyone. Uncle Joe, exercises power In the evening, in his room, "Uncle Joe is He is very calm and reserved. When he intervenes, and gets straight to the point. >> The British Secretary of State "By subtle methods, without seeming to be stubborn. &quot;. Still, all the credit just his talent as a negotiator. Because what Eden that's what Uncle Joe does Even before he knew everything. Preparing for the conference At the time, services were very well established Our agents gave us on how Churchill and Roosevelt We knew what and what position they were going to To avoid missing anything, Russian secret services have Churchill and Roosevelt knew that. What they don't know, is that, obviously, for things But in the park, we posed which are everywhere. There are some in the trees, and they pick up the conversations Stalin does not take He doesn't want to miss a beat. He even demands that report to him everything that was said. Stalin asked how He even asked with the intonation that Churchill In the game the cards are rigged. Stalin knows the game of his adversaries. He knows exactly where he's going, where its partners are On the fourth day of negotiations, Thanks to yesterday's listening, Stalin knows that his allies are to bring about other For Roosevelt, what matters is For Churchill, it is a file which but which is underlying, that of Greece. The country is an ancient It's an issue because Greece is opening which allows them But for two years, Greece has been Communists are trying They hold the campaigns If Greece falls into communism, it's the whole Empire Churchill fears To avoid it, he therefore took the initiative In October 1944, the British Prime Minister has face to face. Roosevelt was then for his re-election. Taking advantage of the absence Churchill then proposed When we talk about sharing the world, it was in Moscow, when Churchill The document, is written by hand Like two grocers, percentages 90% for Russia in Romania, 90% for Great Britain in Greece. At Yalta, Churchill hopes And so that the Soviet the British Prime Minister is This agreement of percentages contrasts obviously with the idea and who would absolutely have on the question of zones So as not to offend Stalin, by showing off On the fourth day of negotiations, the American and the British let go and recognize the government In return, that non-communist ministers Stalin also undertakes to organize free elections as well as in all countries This word "free election" sounds even if they did not obtain All they could get from Stalin, these were declarations which saved face They're almost there. What do they But how can we imagine when the territory is completely This is where there is an illusion Because in exchange for these promises, Westerners grant They allow him by attaching a part In compensation, Poland will recover The country will thus carry out In the Polish case, The Soviet obtained His allies now hope This February 8, it's sunny Roosevelt is nervous because the discussions The American president absolutely To put all Roosevelt then invites Stalin to share Churchill was not warned. The meeting between the two allies Roosevelt fears does not prevent him from negotiating Then the American president believes He believed he could develop a And I think Roosevelt felt thanks to this relationship But that doesn't work He didn't imagine and free from all human feeling. At the same time, in the Pacific, Americans know facing a fanaticized Japanese army. Without the help of the Russians, that the war could last another year Roosevelt is determined Stalin knows it In exchange for cannon fodder And the marshal is greedy. He demands But also the occupation and a path The negotiations do not bear because it belongs to Japan to give away Japanese territory Dairen and Port-Arthur, it's more annoying China is Chiang Kai-shek. Chiang Kai-shek, and he was not invited to Yalta. Roosevelt can therefore be to make concessions That's very annoying. But Stalin tries With his charm, he will succeed and to accept Charles Bohlen, Roosevelt's interpreter, "Stalin said it was clear that it would be difficult for him, to explain why the Soviet Union It is clear that Roosevelt was annoyed Roosevelt hesitates. But in the face of intransigence the American swallows his scruples. What matters to him, Go to Dairen and Port Arthur. Roosevelt sacrifices the Chinese. He'll figure it out later once the war is over. The American President He fulfilled his objectives. On Japan, This new organization has the ambition Stalin agreed Effective participation but it is already a first step. This is a big concession to make him admit that he is going for preliminary negotiations. Even that is a big Stalin keeps saying: "If so, your thing Do I go He knows how to play it very well. It is an artist. Sixth day of negotiations. This February 9, 1945, Churchill,Roosevelt their good humor in front of the cameras. UN, Japan, Germany, the big three have found compromises and everyone got Churchill imposed himself He lifted France He assigned him The American president, on the UN and on Japan. With Churchill, he also snatched free elections in Poland But it's the marshal Unquestionably, who emerge victorious Stalin got and he got more or less this in any case, the principle of reparations. The image of a perfect understanding between However, it is misleading. In Yalta, Stalin, Roosevelt and Churchill They wanted to preserve the Alliance, while the war But deep down, each of them and its own interests. The Yalta agreements are precarious. They are the result of compromise between three exceptional personalities. On the last day of negotiations, In the evening, to friendship between peoples But this hope won't last The agreement that the big three Just three weeks Stalin violates the Yalta agreements. In Romania, while the Army he organizes the taking Poland, every time his allies propose to bring into government, Stalin refuses it. Roosevelt, until then After Yalta, Roosevelt He realized did not match On April 1, a long telegram in order to obtain explanations. "I cannot hide from you in front of the way in which it takes place, since our successful events Honestly, I can't understand why recent events like not falling But Roosevelt's warnings Without the slightest scruple, and continue to install Roosevelt dies for 11 days He will never see Churchill, who, to everyone's surprise, must attend, In Yalta, the big three to this long-awaited world of peace. The dream of fraternity Soon, yesterday's allies confronting each other in a conflict the Cold War.