Amidst the blood and dust of the Bronze contraption drawn by powerful beasts would fact these were the vehicles of heroes who Here is one such vivid encounter Next Diomedes killed two who were in a single chariot, As among cattle a lion leaps heifer, that grazes among the so the son of Tydeus hurled both from their horses hatefully, in spite of their and gave the horses to his This passage offers a graphic to set foot on a Bronze Age Battlefield. Today we will be diving into the history of this video is brought to you by a total war during the bronze age mediterranean which between the kingdoms of troy and mycenaean of grand turn-based empire management and troy will also be free to claim for for more information check out the link below Horses were first domesticated around 6,000 occurred across various parts of Europe and Asia been much smaller than the horse breeds of and most closely resembled the more diminutive It seems that initially these horses were simply wagons and carts. In this capacity they would have be seen transporting army gear. It would have been with the ideas of deploying these in battle. the first to adapt such primitive battle-carts for were pulled by a team of onagers it's likely that However the war-chariot we are most familiar with, by a team of horses, often stallions, does not second millennium BC. These were likely first and officials and perhaps even for recreational battlefield. By the Late Bronze Age, say roughly chariotry had become an important part in the ancient Near East. The Egyptians for with 1 driver and 1 archer. The rival shock forces with 1 driver, 1 shield-bearer who scale armour and a long spear. These two weapons Kadesh which featured a reported 5-6,000 vehicles, During this time chariots made their way Crete. As in the near east they would have and inevitably warfare. The earliest evidence of Circle A at Mycenae [MY-SEEN-EE]. Some have also development of roads in ancient Greece. Yet this most would have just allowed envoys and officials Either way, chariots had arrived and into armies of the Mycenaeans. As an evidence from Linear B tablets suggest that from the different Mycenaean palaces numbered a total fleet of around 400. While not as large it is still quite an impressive scale given With this context in mind let's now discuss We shall begin with the horses. Our records pulled by a team of two animals. Only in the with teams that consist of a larger number of size of what we today consider ponies. Horse not have had much in the way of protection. producing such pieces of equipment and the fact As for the chariot itself, these were also quite perishable materials such as wood and leather. The earliest is the Type 1 or Box Chariot which A similar type of chariot is found in Hittite and this must be the type that was introduced we find the Type 2 or Quadrant Chariot which is As the name implies, it features a box that By far the most common type of chariot encountered It is very similar to the Box Chariot with of a curved extension at the back. These chariots roughly 1450 and 1200 BC. Unlike the Box the Dual Chariot appears to be From the later thirteenth century BC onwards, or Rail Chariot. This vehicle is open-walled, designs from later periods which seems to from the end of the Bronze Age all the way Almost certainly, this was the type of In the case of the Mycenaean chariot crew, always showing two occupants: the driver the warrior would likely have been protected by a and perhaps even a shield. Fascinating indicates that some riders may have been even more piece of equipment was not the norm given the When it comes to offense, the warrior is and they probably also carried a sword as a depict the use of the bow. However this imagery East, where leaders hunting from chariots are Mycenaeans would have been able to deploy chariots limitations of the rough Aegean terrain. Let's now Admittedly we don't know much about chariot forces. Based on the actions of their that they devoted significant effort to for use with chariots. As for the crew we again that competitive racing and other recreational Perhaps there were even obstacle courses specific wartime training but again we So, regardless of how well they trained, how did the Mycenaeans actually use their they actually didn't ride to the battlefield quite fragile and armies were wary of subjecting vehicles would actually have been disassembled and Only once the army arrived at the field of Ok so now we are on the battlefield, what did they feature chariots apparently barrelling directly followed in the footsteps of the Hittites who This interpretation would seem to align being associated with warriors armed with we never see them engaged in combat Many would actually argue against this the evidence and the simple fact that the uneven large-scale chariot combat as might be the case there is also no evidence that either the which suggests that they were not suitable Perhaps a more plausible hypothesis is were actually used to transport warriors to and most famously in the Homeric the chariot is used strictly as a mode of Once on the field, the hero, who is always a to fight on foot. Just before combat began his the chariot off to the side of the conflict, We have a hard time imagining how such a system the men may have simply dismounted within the of the army before the engagement. Or perhaps, just more loosely organized, with a stretch of no have allowed the warriors more room to manoeuvre. Homer's work which was written long after the Some have posited a sort of middle ground between that chariots bearing commanders would have This combined arms tactic would have allowed role depending on what the situation called for. and we simply don't know exactly When it comes to the service history of the Warfare was fairly endemic in this period Thus there were plenty of local skirmishes taking have featured chariots. When the larger, have also made a showing. After all these and it makes sense that commanders would seek opponents. But of these skirmishes and battles outside of the more famous events of the Trojan Eventually however the use of the war chariot were expensive to produce and maintain which meant they could be supported in large numbers. That Mycenaean palaces around 1200 BC and continued into the Archaic period of the 700 to 500s BC. In among scholars as to whether or not chariots were war chariots in art should all be interpreted the case may be, chariots would remain a On the battlefield though, they would find new A huge thanks is owed to our supporters on writers, and artists who made this video possible. content and let us know what units of history you