. Chairman. Mr. Rowe, thank you for being here. I agree with what you said at the outset that the individual Secret Service agents demonstrated remarkable personal courage, putting their bodies in between the line of sight of the shooter and the president. That being said, the bravery of the line agents is quite different from the decisions of Secret Service leadership. Secret Service leadership committed catastrophic security failures. Indeed, the worst security failures for the for the Secret Service since 1981 since the attempted assassination of President Ronald Reagan. It is incumbent. Upon this committee to determine why those security failures happened. Just after the shooting. Secret Service put out an official statement from your spokesperson that says there's an untrue assertion that a member of the former president's team requested additional security resources that those were rebuffed. This is absolutely false. In fact, we added protective resources and technology and capabilities as part of the increased campaign travel tempo. Was this tweet accurate? With respect to Butler, Pennsylvania, it is accurate, sir. It is accurate. That The Trump team had not asked for additional security and had not been rebuffed. If you're talking about Butler, Pennsylvania, all assets requested were approved. If you're talking about the media reporting of assets requested, uh, there were times when assets were unavailable and not able to be filled and those gaps were staffed with state and local law enforcement tactical assets. So I'm reading from the Washington Post July 20th, 2024. Secret. Service said to have denied requests for more security at Trump events. The opening paragraph. Top officials of the US Secret Service repeatedly denied requests for additional resources and personnel sought by Donald Trump's security detail in the two years leading up to his attempted assassination, uh, according to 4 people familiar with the requests, is that right that repeatedly the Trump detail asked for more resources and repeatedly Secret Service leadership. Turn that down. That, that is not accurate, Senator. Uh, assets are requested. There's a process that is made, um, and how many requests did the did the Trump team or the Trump detail ask for. I can get you that number in a queue for you don't, you don't know now. So I can speak to the ones that reported in The Washington Post, and we can go through them if you like. But you don't know how many, how many requests there were. In general, how many requests since 2021 that the former Trump detail has made a request for asset. You've had two weeks. You had a spokesperson put something out that is false on its face, by the way, did you approve this statement when it went out? Uh, I, I don't know if I did or didn't, Senator spokesperson, is he still employed? Does he still have a job? So he lied on behalf of the Secret Service. He still has a job. Did your predecessor, the former director, does she approve this statement? Senator, our comms team, they, they send out statements, they do deconflict them and they put them out. Did she approve this statement? I don't know if she did or did not and you don't know if you did either. I don't recall approving it, Senator. Will you commit to provide this committee in writing? Every written request for additional resources from the Trump campaign or the Trump detail and every response from Secret Service. Senator, I will commit to providing responses and getting you the information that you are seeking. May I ask you something, and, and who makes the decision to deny those requests? Did you make that decision? Which requests are you talking about the ones that were in the Washington Post, the processor is that uh a detail uh will make a request for either staffing, technical assets, uh, that is handled between uh the field office and the detail. It goes up to a logistics office, uh, between our, so there's a bureaucracy. Is there a decision maker? It's not a bureaucracy, Senator, it's a person that's a decision maker. Is there one? Uh, Senator, it's a conversation. It's not just an absolute yet so let me tell you what I believe. I believe that the Secret Service leadership made a political decision to deny these requests. And I think the Biden administration has been suffused with partisan politics. Did the same person who denied the request for additional security to President Trump also repeatedly deny the request for security to Robert F. Kennedy Jr. whose father was murdered by an assassin and whose uncle was murdered by an assassin. Did the same person make that decision? Senator, what I will tell you is that Secret Service agents are not political. OK, you're not answering my, you know what leadership by the appointed by the president. is political. I have a simple question, yes or no? Did the same person deny the Trump requests that also denied the RFK request. That's a yes or no question, Senator. That is not a yes or no question. One, there is a process for a candidate nominee to receive protection. Is that is a bicameral a bipartisan process that he'll part bicameral bipartisan process. What can a candidate for a don't have a camera. Mr. Kennedy submitted a request that was referred over to the CPACC. OK, you're refusing to answer the question. Let me ask because, because the failures on that day were catastrophic. By the way, is it true that on the day of the of the Butler event that Secret Service transferred an agent for President Trump to the First Lady. Uh, no, sir, that's not true. That's been widely reported. It's not true. There was one airport agent that actually went on the manpower quest for the Trump detail. They handled the arrival at the airport is the what was the relative size of the Trump detail compared to the detail that is assigned to the president of the First Lady. Uh, senator, the former president travels with a full shift, just like the president. What's the, so the exact same size, is that your testimony that President Trump had the same size detail that President Biden has on the day of in Butler, the agents surrounding him, it is the same number of agents surrounding the president today. There is a difference between a sitting president who also not only hold on, you're using president in a way that is not clear. Is it your testimony that in Butler, Pennsylvania, Donald Trump had the same number of agents protecting him that Joe Biden has at a comparable event. I'm telling you the shift, the close protection shift surrounding that you asked me, Senator, and I'm trying to answer it. You are not answering it. Is it the same number of agents or not? Senator, there is a difference between the sitting president of the United States, then what's the difference? The difference 2 x 3 x 5 X command authority to launch a nuclear strike, sir. There are other assets many more travel with the president that's the former president refusing to answer of Secret Service interrup stop interrupting me. Go ahead, you are refusing to answer clear and direct questions. I am asking the relative difference in the number of agents. Between those assigned to Donald Trump and those assigned to Joe Biden. I'm not asking why you assign more to Joe Biden. I'm asking, is the difference, is it 2 X? Is it 3 X? Is it 5 X? Is it 10 X? Senator, I will get you that number so you can see it with your own eyes. Senator Marshall, you recognized for your questions.