Translator: Leonardo Silva In the late '60s, early '70s, there was a movement called the Jesus Movement, where ex-hippies grew up and decided to channel all of that My father was one such ex-hippie he started a small cult Yeah, this is a super light-hearted story. (Laughter) So, I find myself at five years old. I'm standing on a street corner the pink one with the white pinstripes. And I have my favorite white purse because I love purses, almost more than I love Christ himself. (Laughter) And my dad is yelling the gospel because he believes that's a sure-fire way I'm terrified because I'm a quiet kid, and I'm shy and I avoid And even in my brief five years of living, I have learned that yelling the gospel can be interpreted (Chuckling) But I've been taught that I could be and the burning, fiery furnaces of hell. So, there I am. It's at that moment that I see her. She's an older woman And she's not wearing any nail polish, and I don't understand how anybody would go one day without nail polish, because I love nail polish, almost as much as I love Christ himself. (Laughter) But it's totally forbidden. She locks eyes with me and she gets down &quot;One day, you will grow up and you will realize All of us have had to grow up probably not a cult. It might have been an unhealthy Maybe you just have Leaving is incredibly difficult, but it is also completely life-changing. A fun fact that all cults share is that they reject the label &quot;cult.&quot; Even now, 16 years since I left, my parents will give me a list of reasons So, fine. It wasn't a cult. It was an evangelical, fundamentalist, non-denominational, (Laughter) whose charismatic leader But it wasn't a cult. Sure, we had some You might even call them extreme. And we did live Maybe we didn't exactly with silly things like demanding careers. But it wasn't a cult because we had like &quot;God is all-present,&quot; and &quot;women can't pierce their ears.&quot; (Laughter) We wanted to return to the simple life Not sure we knew exactly We didn't want to be but also, &quot;do women really need equality&quot;? So, I guess post-Augustine, (Chuckling) My grandparents George George was a fantastic public speaker, a charismatic leader and an abusive, narcissistic, My father was an elder his wife. But it wasn't a cult because women could go as long as we were fully clothed, because nothing derails like a woman in a one-piece. (Chuckling) The Assembly targeted college-aged kids, vulnerable because they're and they're looking for a community, a place where they can connect Every summer, my dad would pack up, and we would drive to another state These trips are some We had good times together and we thought we were doing But as I grew up, I started to realize the work If you're wondering here is a list of things dating, television, science, ambitious females. Those things are so dangerous. (Laughter) Clapping loudly after a performance. God only gets the glory Also forbidden: psychiatry, adorable baby puppies. (Laughter) But don't worry, there was still so much like - kale. (Laughter) Creepy men. (Laughter) Climate change denial. Pyramid schemes were a big thing. Weird diets. Also enjoyable: anxiety, Untreated, okay? Because Cults don't want to be defined as a cult because it empowers its members Language in cults is controlled This happens in the real world, too. Despite what 98% let's not call it climate change. When I was five years old, my mom was trying to recruit so she sent me for a haircut. I told her that my secret hero was and she tried to cut my hair like hers. Basically, I came out of there looking like Javier Bardem (Laughter) Maybe a little less murdery. I was ecstatic. My parents were appalled. Short hair was God's plan for men only. At five years old, I had already in his somewhat specific (Laughter) The Assembly had a school through eighth grade. My mom was the principal until the elders realized they had (Laughter) Women were never encouraged but if they had to be, That wasn't biblical. But remember, it wasn't a cult. It was a wonderful place We didn't have the burden The men got to do that heavy lifting. It's so luxurious especially by wonderfully like elder Earl. Sure, he didn't see the wisdom (Laughter) But when I was 15 and I had the gall he had the wisdom to tell me I had distracted him because my lips were on my face. (Laughter) Revlon's light lip blush number 666 - (Laughter) had kept this poor servant of God That was my bad. I needed to apologize. Because the Assembly did target colleges, And this was the biggest break of my life. I had to start a Bible study and I had to live Training homes were the Assembly's where groups of people would live Basically, it was a super fun way Cults are all-consuming. They don't allow their members But college became a refuge for me. It was the first time in my life I could spend hours of my day And at the same time, This world that I had been taught was dark Get this: women in the arts, women in science. There was a place I started to see how small I could have left the Assembly but in a cult, when you leave, And I wasn't ready Women, children and people of color were to put it mildly. There was emotional but there was also physical abuse. When I was a young girl, and I told my dad what I had seen. He told me he would take care of it. And the Assembly did, by covering it up. Shortly after I graduated from college, I found out that my uncle's abuse My grandparents had and my own parents had maintained a code of silence, when nothing of substance had changed. Cults view professional help as a threat to their way of life. Women were never to leave their husbands, and we did not believe So, my aunt and cousins had It was time for me to leave. I could not be in a group so that a few men could stay in charge. Staunch loyalty to any group is wrong if it means supporting an abusive, Thank you. (Applause) Because that abuse and that pathology, It trickles down in the group, and good people end up My sister and I left We confronted our grandparents and George kicked us out of the house. I have never seen my grandparents and my relationship It takes a lot of work after you leave something like that. There was a lot of questioning and it was hard. But I can tell you that even was better than the best day in a cult. So, what does a young woman do once besides a lot of therapy? (Laughter) I went crazy, you guys! Crazy. I watched every rated-R movie - (Laughter) that had ever been produced I don't regret a minute of it. I cut my hair short, pierced my ears. More importantly, I admitted, &quot;I want to have a career. I'm going to be one of those I believe that I'm a feminist I started writing comedy because comedy for me is the absolute Laughing is powerful. A few years after I had left the Assembly, the romance of short hair I was walking down the street in LA, when I saw her, a young girl, in a conservative dress. She was standing on this street who was yelling the gospel I walked up to her and I knelt down in front of her and I looked her in the eye and I said, &quot;One day, you will grow up and you will realize Thank you. (Applause)