Transcriber: Amanda Chu So this has been There are 900,000 divorces in the United States Fewer than 10% of them ever talked to anybody So why would you need a science? Well, we need a science and understanding Why? Why should we care Well, it turns out a field called social and it shows that great friendships, great love relationships lead to greater health - greater wealth, greater resilience, faster recovery from illness, greater longevity - if you want to live 10 to 15 years longer, not just your exercise - and more successful children as well. So love has a kind of magic; And one of my favorite films with Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan. And I just want to share with you a quote, where Tom Hanks is on the radio and she says to him, &quot;Sam, tell me what was And Tom Hanks says, Sam says, Oh well, it was a million We were supposed to be together and I knew it. I knew it the very first time It was like coming home, It was just taking her hand and, you know, it was like magic.&quot; And Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan So what about this magic? Can science really help find Well, the first step We needed to basically understand and that's not something I did alone. In fact, 45 years ago, and this lab was built, My best friend, Bob Levenson, And Bob and I became good friends. And we realized that were not going very well; it went from one disaster to another. So basically, two clueless guys And then over 30 years ago, a romance with my wife, And we decided to work together So basic research was followed And we use validated questionnaires, that allow us to assess in the areas that need improvement. And we validated these questionnaires to make sure that we knew and we could measure things So we created this checkup - and over 40,000 couples and we get a green circle for a strength, a red box for an area But we get their story We ask them about how they met. We find out the quality from this interview. And we collect physiological as they're talking to one another: we're measuring heart rate, skin conductance, respiration, a variety of things like that. And we score their emotion in this kind of split-screen arrangement, where even though we can really code nonverbal behavior, very accurately and reliably. We have them use which they just turned to extremely positive as they're watching the videotapes, to get their perception And then we synchronize all of that: video, physiology, And on the left, you see all the physiological and, you know, a cursor that moves along. And this particular moment, you know, the wife has said something that just makes the husband And shared humor turns out to be at reducing physiological arousal. So, what do we find from this laboratory? We got over 90% success or the happiness of relationships And the major impact of that finding was that Julie and I didn't get invited (Laughter) But the effects replicated that Bob Levenson and I did and that's probably in the study of relationships now. And we're no longer alone; other labs are getting We followed these couples straight couples, gay and lesbian couples, older couples into their late 80s and 90s. So, what do we find - What predicts? And we kind of sit down in our lab about their strengths based upon this research. Well, one thing we do is we create kind of a &quot;Dow Jones And by doing that, it's really good if the cumulative positive in other words, on the left, where, you know, there really is in general, right? They go up and down. And on the right, the high-risk couple, where basically, they go down Well, turns out was that the way the conversation starts in the first three minutes will predict, 96% of the time, whether they are a low-risk couple So startup - the way each person starts before they start is very critical in this prediction. The other thing we learned is something we call Remember the roach hotel? The roaches check in, That's a really good roach trap. Well, negative emotions - anger, sadness, disappointment, fear, the negative emotions for unhappy couples once they check in, they don't check out; it's hard to exit and easy to enter And it turned out the balance is our key index of this magic that Tom Hanks is talking about the balance of positive So this ratio of positivity to negativity that's why this slide is in red - was 0.8:1, just a little bit more And I was completely wrong; I thought that would be You know, in my relationships, we were much more negative than positive, so I thought if it was balanced, But no, it turned out that, actually, the balance of positive in relationships was five to one. There was five times interest in one another, than there was hostility, So there really was a balance that was way balanced in happy, stable relationships. So this five-to-one has become pretty widely known. I left a Starbucks in Seattle recently, and a guy drove by in his pickup truck, and he rolled down the window and he said, I said, &quot;Right.&quot; So we both gave us the thumbs-up sign. So that's our index of the magic. But then we thought, &quot;OK, you have an index, What do you need And so our hypothesis physiological calm So what about those things? Can we actually measure those And can we actually make a difference? And this is right. Well, the first one, physiological calm, The couples whose heart rates were lower, whose blood was flowing less rapidly, who weren't sweaty as much, those people actually but they had great relationships. They were gentle with one another, not hostile, they reassured one another - very interesting balance in physiology And by the way, we found So I have a pulse oximeter right here, and it allows me, when I press the button, to really find out what my heart rate is And right now, my heart rate (Laughter) and my percentage of oxygen is 92%. So that sucks. (Laughter) I'm highly aroused physiologically. (Laughter) So you can't tell what's going on by looking at them; you have to actually measure it. And we have to build Now, why? Why is that so important? Well, it turns out they can take in information, they can be empathetic, they have access to their sense of humor. That's very important. But when they're flooded, when there's a diffuse activation of various parts they're much more likely So if a therapist doesn't know &quot;Can you summarize Summarize what your husband just says? Can you validate and be empathetic?&quot; They can't do it if they're So the therapist actually has to know that So physiological calm is good. That's what we learned. So, part of that trio of variables, we know we have validation But the magic also comes, So what's trust? It's something that people talk about, And it turns out we can measure it And a trusting relationship, really leads to intimacy and great sex; a distrusting relationship And guess what? The major reason people have affairs it's because they're lonely. And they have found somebody who finds them interesting in the context of a relationship So what is trust? How do we define it? How do we measure it? And here we use mathematics - And we can actually measure this idea that mutual trust comes from when both partners are not just one person's benefit So I'm always thinking I can walk into a kitchen now, and view that kitchen So I can say, &quot;Ah, so I'll clean it up, and, well, now I know when she comes in, she's not going to notice You know, I'm more of a slob. So, you know, for me, But, you know, people they really always have not just themselves, and they're thinking about both of them. But the magic also comes So what does this mean? Well, we've learned a lot about commitment from the systematic research and another woman named Shirley Glass. And what we've learned is that in relationships, a key turning point. When things aren't going well, when your partner is hostile if you really, in your own head, and nurturing gratitude for what you have and saying, &quot;This is my journey. And I'm damn lucky that turning point leads to loyalty. On the other hand, betrayal comes from, really, at that point making negative comparisons between your partner Betrayal leads whereas commitment leads to loyalty. And then, when you have that sense both of you have that - you really have a safe place, And with over 90% prediction, the mechanism by which trust, physiological calm, can we actually create Now, why would you want Why do you want Some people think (Laughter) Well, if you can create a mathematics, not just the static nature of commitment, affecting a relationship you actually will understand as it unfolds over time. And that's what therapists In their offices, they are looking at how people interact, So we need a dynamic analysis What pushes the interaction So, because we get data over time, we get behavior, perception, very much like that Dow Jones we can create the And so, James Murray, and I worked together. And because we're not very intelligent, it took us 15 years (Laughter) But when you look at them, So what we're trying to do in this graph of the husband's interaction And by the way, this holds we say wife and husband only because it's a little bit But can we go for what's happening in this graph of behavior or physiology and predict at a later time? And in fact, we can develop So on the left of the equal sign, we see the wife at time &quot;t+1&quot; and on the bottom, the husband's. So how do we predict That's what we want to know. That's what the therapist wants to know. Well, we have one parameter, and that's the old startup, right? How they start the conversation is really critical. And so that's the theory the way the wife starts up, that one constant is very, very important But then there's another parameter, and that predicts how much So some people, when they get angry, It's hard to move them. They're kind of like And in physics, It takes a lot of energy Other people are they have low inertia, right? Well, they have no stability either. So what's the right inertia? Well, we don't know, their emotional inertia. That affects how much influence which is our third parameter: the influence function. So in the wife's equation, and in the husband's equation, Well, we can actually what that influence function So here's a husband and the vertical axis So, there are some points, but we need a theory that helps us find the best fit So, our theory really said, There's one part of it when he's being positive, what's the impact of that? The steepness of the slope tells us like affection, humor. And then the other one with negativity, with anger, with hurt feelings, with sadness. And that slope gives us that positive and negative emotions have. But then we thought, well, maybe when they get that we have denoted by K sub R - maybe what happens is they can repair. And so, that other part when does repair cut in And what we discover is that if you repair early you're much more effective OK, that was kind of a surprising finding. And on the other hand, Maybe you could amplify And it turns out, yes, you can. By turning toward your partner when your partner needs the positive affect can be either, or by turning toward, amplified. So these are the parameters in our theory. But now we do a very cool thing. We actually can create a dynamic portrait And what we do is we put the husband's positive on the horizontal axis and the wife's on the vertical axis. Going up is positive; That gives us quadrants And we can describe it by two bunnies on the beach and two bunnies in the storm So we really want our couples rather than two bunnies in the storm. So this gives us a new goal All right, so this phase space portrait This quadrant one and we have another quadrant So we'd like them to really or these quadrants where one of them Although it might be good to be there because maybe one so we don't know yet. So we have those quadrants OK. There's our relationship phase space. Now, let's look at an actual conversation And there's a dot moving this is a real conflict conversation And look at that dot moving So now we see there's a dynamic unfolding, but it's kind of hard to see and know what's good and what's bad. We need equations, and we need to know What's actually compelling Is there some attractive force, Is there an attractive force to pull them toward In which case, the relationship Or is there a positive attractor that is powerful? Or is it weak, and the therapists really needs to help So, here's our old friend, the startup. Now, this couple is starting They're in quadrant number one, And there's a choice here. They either move in that direction, toward that star, that blue star, which is the attractor in the phase space that pulls their interaction especially if it's strong, or they might move the other way. They might actually cycle that moves them in the And that's our bunnies in the storm. Now, we don't want them there, or we don't want them to spend And the attractors are the forces So we're looking at but we're looking at a flow diagram, almost like a fluid flowing. And you've seen this kind Hurricane Irma, this comes from that hurricane, And there's a force moving it And we can actually do the same thing So, OK, that's a theory Does it work? Well, this is what a stable, Look at all the flows, look at the arrows, A negative attractor, We don't like that, you know. And well, what about divorced couples? Well, it turns out, with divorced couples, There are three attractors and one is unstable - the one between the two stars so what we get there is turbulence. Not only is their flow but a lot of energy is expended as they move from A turbulence is probably what predicts divorce versus being Now, I don't know which is worse, But the real test is, What about good relationships - How do they look? And it turns out when you put this you get this picture. So yes, it's true. Happy, stable relationships very, very simple phase space diagram. And no matter where they start where that startup is, they'll go toward a positive place, which is kind of amazing. That's the dynamics So we did it. We actually were able to describe, Now, here's another thing With the math, we can simulate in other words, we can do We can do experiments and mathematically, we can select the best intervention So for example, here's a couple. And what you see on the left where we can change every parameter We can change their startup, we can change their repair threshold - And here we see, you know, the green lines that show us the influence functions and the arrows that show us So let's take a look at an actual couple. And here we see this couple they have that negative attractor. And we can actually move &quot;What would they look like So we move - and this is a thought experiment - we move the couple by changing those parameters at start up, and then we take a look And look, there are They're in that And then all we need is a technology So we've created the technology and now the therapist And then they get the magic. Research findings are that the magic of physiological calm, and we know how to build it. So, science did it. When the magic is there, we find that we get Now we can understand the magic no matter where the conversation begins, it would be drawn to the positive, We'll get the five-to-one ratio - So, just to summarize, what we've really said We can assess their strengths There is magic in love we know that. And the five-to-one ratio indexes it; But we can mathematically model the magic. The magic requires calm, And maybe we can help avoid disaster which is turning out to be true So perhaps now, the magic of great love Thank you. (Applause)