[SAD MUSIC] (SINGING) I love of her. I lover her. But what can I do? Will I ever know For what good am I and her plating A star made of A symbol of those worn by men who fought and and cried. And I'm sure to wind [FIDDLE PLAYING] You happy? You made me happy. You wouldn't be satisfied being Well, I like the idea of going to run the town. Is that bad? Why didn't you want Well, it's not the Either you're a gunman A lot of difference between Is there? To me they're one and the same. When a man starts to keep on killing with Karen, I'm not afraid except not having a chance A dead man doesn't make Still thinking to your father, that it? What happened to my It was my mother and us kids. You better slip I've got to live up to what The people's choice. (SINGING) A star made A symbol of men Always ready for the call, A law man must always A star made of A symbol of men Always ready for the call, A law man must You've been a good little You and me don't You're just going to Hello, Mr. Leech. Hello, Mr. Dowdy. Don't arrest me the I'll even resist you. You'd have to get 15 years, 15 years I haven't to speak. Now I'm going to make up for it. What's the matter, Gregg? Oh, don't let it get you, son. All new sheriffs get a bit Hard to make that first arrest. I know, I remember. From now on it'll come easier. I don't like it. Yeah you will. Shooting and killing people. That's not my idea of a life. Why do you suppose the folks into office? I'll tell you why, because There was good sheriffs, father, kept this town Keeping the town peaceful is Shooters cause the trouble. What makes a good sheriff, Bill? Ask them. What do they think A man that'll stand his knowing full well there's only or-- A drunkard. If I was you Will Dowdy, You've done enough He told you he But in order to save So why don't you mind Don't ever pay attention Somebody's got to run the town. The best man's got to do it. I wish I was the best man, Bill. I ain't got it here. I wouldn't think so Think of your future. That's important too. I am thinking about my future. A man that carries a or the woman that marries him. Amen. You just keep the gun clean. You won't have any trouble. Take that Childress And if they won't let you keep Tain't no crime to want to live. I think you've had enough, Will. First day free, I'm drinking I wouldn't be in his boots Then why did you force him Because I grew to I don't want no man to Lately ain't been able to keep Haven't been able to You done all right, I like this town too, But why does it Except for those that's got other affairs, I'd trust except Leech. Leech would never I've had enough for now. [ADVENTUROUS MUSIC] Howdy, Ward. [INAUDIBLE] Why the gun, Ward? The cat's been No. I ain't seen a cat Hunting? [OMINOUS MUSIC] I asked you why the gun, Ward? You ain't going to wear Yeah. You know the law. I'm just protecting myself. That's all. You didn't wear it when No. Then take it off. As soon as I know everything I'll take it off, Take it off, Ward. Uh-uh. [GUNSHOT] Drop it, Ward. I can't. It's cocked and loaded. It's got a hair trigger. It'll go off if I do. Hold it. All right, Ward, I'm had to be one of my own people. All right, let's go. [SAD MUSIC] [ADVENTUROUS MUSIC] Howdy, Sheriff. Gregg, that's my banner. And I like it there. Oh, please. This will never do. It's crooked. This rally sure made Yeah, it sure did. I bet there's a lot of Do you feel more like I had to take Ward Blythe Oh, no, was he drunk? I don't want to talk about it. I'll let him out Well, what's wrong with Vine? I watched you when He's limping. I think he's got a growth on the [MUSIC PLAYING] I better take him if he can build up his shoe. Have you moved into I bet you haven't even Well, it takes time. Are you coming by tonight? As soon as I get moved in. Yeah, sure does. You got time. Or are you busy sheriffing? Yeah, I got plenty of time. You know, I didn't I didn't think you was Yeah, so I noticed. Nothing personal, Maybe you're right. You liked Harmon better, huh? I like somebody who's not from here but a good man. It's a man's job. And Harmon would have brought the money people. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] What's up? Nothing important. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] Hey, mister, you can't Don't you know that? Oh, is that right? It ain't allowed. Only the sheriff. Go on, kid. Beat it. Wait a minute. Let the boy have his say. You better put that banner It belongs to Ms. Karen. Look, mister, don't Go on home, boy. Kid, I don't want to hurt you. Run along now. Three against one, brave boys. That's OK. You'll get yours. Sheriff Leech will be around. You'll see. Bainey, what's wrong? Them. Tore your sign down. Well, who are they? Nobody I ever seen. They all got guns. Are you all right? Yeah, I'm OK, thanks. Boy, am I going to Well you go on home. I'll tell Gregg. He'll take care of them. You tell him what All right, but you go on home. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] [DOOR KNOCK] Who threw that young boy out? Well. You run this place? No, my father does. Where is he? He'll be-- Good afternoon, gentlemen. You know him? Certainly, he's our new sheriff. I can read. Does he come in here? Yeah, sure. When? Most any time. You never can tell. That's my banner you're Sorry, ma'am. Who are you? Name's King, ma'am, You know Gregg? No, ma'am. You want to see him? Yes, ma'am. Karen, I'll take You just finish your work. Why do you want to see him? I want to kill him, ma'am. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] Put up a bottle, barkeep. That ought to hold Thanks, Tiny. Word to the wise, Sheriff. Rumor has it you ain't Oh. You know this town ain't Changed the sights of time too. A certain group blames They want some changes. They're going to make them. What are you trying to say? Told you all I'm going to. Take it from there. Talk to Dowdy. He knows. Drop by. That's right, ma'am. And if he doesn't, He has this choice, ma'am. I'll tell him. Hey, waiting around? Bill, you know something Yeah, wait a minute. What's all this about, come Didn't tell you what? Tiny gave me a warning. You better get and come in out of the sun, boy. Tiny, have you seen Gregg? He left here about Didn't say where he was going. Seems as though there might in the street. I don't know what it was about. You might take a look up there. Something wrong? Well, there were-- Thanks. Tiny said a group of have gotten together And he said to ask you about Sure, I know about it. Everybody knows about it. Ain't nothing new. It's been going on a long time, Every town has it. Gregg, ain't no such There's always a group of that want things This town is no different. These people want an open gambling, the whole thing. I wouldn't worry about it. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] Three men rode into town. And they wore guns. Did you go down and ask No, I didn't want to Didn't want to start no trouble? Man, that's your job. You ain't start it, Belle, bring me a drink. You go down there and find out Don't sit here. Go down there and ask them. Don't just sit here. Go on down and ask them. I told you to get the Gregg. Do you know King No. Do you, Mr. Dowdy? No, can't say that Well, he's going to kill Gregg. Kill me? It's what he said. Well, I don't know why. I don't even know him. It's the history of the West. Maybe it's the son of your father killed Did he say why? No, just said he was going to had to get out of town. Gave him till 8:00 tonight. Said he had his choice. Don't let him bluff you, Gregg. If you do, there'll be more. They beat young Bainey up and And you make him hang You make him know this is Please, Gregg. How come if the people and law abiding No one man can defend it alone. How come it lays on the sheriff? No man can fight he's crazy or trying Yeah, why don't we all be He knows his job. And he'll go down there Right, Gregg? [SAD MUSIC] To get that bottle, I'll - You'll be sorry, Being brave is one thing. Look at Will. That's what being [SAD MUSIC] (SINGING) A star made A symbol of men Always ready for the call, A law man must always Got till 8:00 tonight. Either he'll be around, Looks like we're (SINGING) I love her. I love her. But what can I do? Will I ever know For what good am I with her planting [WHISTLING] No need of counting those. You won, Sheriff. I wonder. Some seem to have other ideas. You won fair and square. Glad to see you've I haven't moved in yet. Doesn't seem as That isn't the way it Some strangers rode the welcome banner. Probably some prankster, Well, it's not the It's the disrespect. When you take a got to expect things like that. But if it annoys go down and see Where did they go? In Childress's saloon. I just went by, and I'd go talk to them, Well, if I was a bet you that Gregg Leech to get feller by the and throw him out of town. Yes, good for business too. Keep the hotel filled. There's not much to it now. But I'd build another Don't you think so, Mr. Daniels? Look, I don't care what you Hey, you down there. Me? Both of you. You got something to say? Well, we were just I didn't ask you Drink your beer and We were just trying to-- All right, get out of here. You. Yeah? Spread word around town hurt if they stay indoors. Yeah, sure. Hey. Yeah? Come here. Come on, come on, All right, leave him alone. I don't want no trouble What did I tell you to? To tell everybody if they stay All right, move. I have to say that, Mr. Shut up. Congratulations and If I'm needed, you Yeah, all right. Gregg. Hey, he's a mean one, Gregg. Says he's going to kill you, into a killing mood. Sort of a looking fellow, is he? Well, I got no time now. Got a message to deliver. [SAD MUSIC] Is that him? Yeah. Yeah, that's Gregg. Should we get him? No, he'll be in. But he ain't coming in. He's leaving. He'll be back, or Another bottle, bar wait. Looks like we're Grab yourself a One on us. No, thank you. I never drink. Yeah? Where are you going? I don't know. I thought I'd just With Karen gone-- Getting worried [LAUGHTER] Go on back up the bar. Yes, sir. [SAD MUSIC] (SINGING) A star made A symbol of men Always ready for the call, A law man must always A star made of A symbol of those Worn by men who fought and and cried. And I'm sure to wind I love her. I love her. But why what can I do? Will I ever know For what good am I with her planting Oh, there you are, A glass of Bristol The bar's closed, Shakespeare. Oh, that is a bit That right, Mr. Childress? You heard him. The bar is closed. Well, then, I shall [LAUGHTER] Gregg. They're pushing people That's what they're doing. Well, pretty soon you won't be And why didn't you and some You were in there. Why didn't you fight him? Of course, that's It ain't mine. That's why my father's Times have changed, Happy. Men don't fight Tell them to form a [SAD MUSIC] Shouldn't be much longer now. Wonder what took them this long. Maybe Gregg's Do you think, Mr. Dowdy? Not likely without a shot. [SAD MUSIC] Where are you going, Will? To see what the holdup is. It ain't your job. You ain't needed down there. He'll be all right, Mrs. Dowdy. Gregg will be there. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] Howdy, Sheriff, what brings Hello, Ben. You got a train going Oh, not on Friday, Gregg. Nothing, huh? Well, let's see here. Yeah, here it is, right there. Special, huh? That's right, 8:00. Will you flag it down? Well, how many passengers, five? No, just one. One? Maybe two. Oh, wait, a minute, Gregg. I voted to put you in office, that believed you was Thanks, Ben. People like you, Gregg. But they expect a lot from you. They know what's happened. They know who's behind this. Look, Ben, all I want flag the train down or not. Gregg, I wouldn't flag her But when I do flag it down, [SAD MUSIC] Help you, pardner? You King? That's right. I understand you're That's right. I'm a past sheriff. I do? A man would be plumb he could ride into a town, Partly right. It's the crazy ones that are They happen to have big ideas. What you want to see Leech for? I want to kill him. Personal grudge, Nope. Somebody pay you to do it? Who? [THUD] [DRAMATIC MUSIC] Better walk, old man. No. [YELLING] I get no money for If I have to kill for Send him home. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] [GLASS BREAKING] [SAD MUSIC] Oh, hello, Bill. Excuse the closed door. I was just trying to keep Come on in. I thought you'd gone Didn't expect to see you The three fellas is waiting to kill Gregg Leech. You ever hear of a fella that No, I can't say that I have. You say they want to kill Leech? They'll clear town Well, does Leech know about it? I reckon he does. The girl brought the Well, has he been over there? I don't know. I haven't seen him Well, maybe you and and see what this It won't do no good. I was just down there. Two of his men threw Well, we'd better find Leech. Have you been over at the jail? I stopped by there. Nobody about. What I wanted to ask there's been some about town that maybe you was said you promised to bring in Oh, you've been talking Why sure, I ran for figured with my legal background to the community. I hope for your sake because somebody important has I was the one to let you set I'd hate for anybody to Stop worrying about me, Bill. Why I was pulling for you were talking about Us old timers got to those that weren't born here. All right, I just wanted Things might get out of hand. I just want to know if Well, certainly you If things get bad, I live, right back over there. They won't get that bad. Gregg will be around. He'll take care of it. [SAD MUSIC] How's your riding, Sheriff? All right. What was going on up the street? You got a rig you want to sell? Well, maybe. Going somewheres? How much do you want for it? Well, I got one right here. Horse and rig, $250. Just the rig. $225. That's a lot of money for a Depends how bad A little axle grease, Well, I'll let you know. What time you'll be needing it? About a 7:45 be all right? [DRAMATIC MUSIC] A Bristol cream, Mr. Childress. The saloon's closed, ma'am. Give the lady a drink, barkeep. Well, thank you. Let me have a swig. You don't look like Put the ladies drink Showgirl? For the time being. You work in here? In this town, hardly. With someone? Temporarily. (SINGING) I'll amble and I'll go where nobody With my sweetheart by and hide where troubles (SINGING) Three Mad Men The three Mad Men came The three mad men came rolled right into town. Three mad men met a pretty girl. Three mad men met a pretty girl. [LAUGHTER] (SINGING) I love her. I love her. But what can I do? I'll never know (SINGING) Three men And [INAUDIBLE]. Stella! Bar's still closed, Shakespeare. Come, Stella. I'm having fun. The lady said she's having fun. [LAUGHTER] Hey. All right, now get up. Both of you. Coward. How about digging up Hey, John. There's three gunmen They're starting trouble. And Leech ain't even been by. I thought that maybe-- I mean, my arm being like you'd go down they can't do these things here. Well, I'd like to help, Charlie. But I can't infringe You know that. I'll tell you, if he I'll come down, have a drink. And maybe I can drop a hint. Somebody's got to do a It's not the people He must have done something. You go on down and Leech will show soon. Well, they sent me up to Do you think I ought Why of course. Go keep them content. Something will And then they'll be gone. I hope so. Well, people can't even come Sure is bad for business. Men can't even-- you can't in the whole town, any place. [SAD MUSIC] Where you been? In town. Have they gone? Go on down and Where are we going, Gregg? I'll tell you later. Are they still there? You haven't answered me. What difference does it make? A lot of difference. Are they still there? Look, Karen, there's a lot of Killing King Daniels Dowdy knew what was And he was helpless But, darling, And anything that's necessary to The honest people are going to It's not a one man job anymore. It can start with one person. But so far, all they've Well young Bainey spoke up. That's a beginning. The young people had helped. I don't think Where's Dowdy? He's up at the house. He wants to see you. [SAD MUSIC] You're not running You ain't ate a thing, Will. I ain't hungry. Where you been? People have been Some of them have been up here. They want to know what you're Where have you been? In town. I met with Daniels. This man will take His reasons worse It's a paid job. I also met with Harmon. Naturally he didn't say. But Mel's right. He's behind all this. I've known it myself But I can't do I'm getting too old, Gregg. Yeah, he's behind Yeah, Harmon is smart. He's waited a long time Naturally, he didn't What are you going to I'm going to retire too. That's smart, Gregg. No need ending up Belle, I've told you a dozen What are you I'm thinking about my Karen and me, our Don't think about me, Gregg. If you're that kind of a man, Then you're not going with me? Not going with you. How can you stand there out there hiding in their to come out of hiding? Not going with you ask, a No, Gregg, my mother died fight for what was theirs. I couldn't stand [MUSIC PLAYING] Don't let me down, Gregg. More, don't let Karen down. She loves you. She always said you'd What do you say? Not wanting to die Being afraid of know anything about But nobody likes a coward, Don't you think I'm human? Don't you think I I've been scared for 15 years. But I had a job to do. I was scared today when I I'm scared now, scared going to walk out on his job and You're the sheriff Because I told these people you They believed me. Now pick up that badge and straighten this thing out. Are you going to do it? Where's my gun? I ain't got it, Will. Give me my gun, woman. I told you this morning, Will, I buried it. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] Oh, God, spare him. Are you going to let that old I've seen it in you, Gregg. I knew it was coming. We can't start by running. Sure I want a home and children. But it's more than that. It's what it's doing to you. It's tearing your insides out. Tain't Gregg at all, Will didn't do his job. Now they're here. It's Will's fault. He's just And that's the cost. (SINGING) Face my Don't go, Gregg. The sheriff will [DRAMATIC MUSIC] He hasn't got a gun. Gregg, Gregg. Gregg. Gregg. [MUSIC PLAYING] [WHISTLING] I'm ready Daniels. Come on out. Sounds like that old man. Come on, Daniels. [WHISTLING] Who's that? The old sheriff. You better go home, old man. [GUNSHOT] [DRAMATIC MUSIC] [GUNSHOTS] That makes eight of them. [GUNSHOTS] That's one gun down. Stay back. [GUNSHOTS] Henry. Henry. Henry. [GUNSHOTS] Are you hit bad, Mr. Dowdy? I'm sorry, Bill. No need to be sorry. Just be smart, kid. I'm all right now. Never be all right If you do do it, remember one you die. Gregg. Yeah? All towns are made up just this word good, bad. Yes, Mr. Dowdy. Take care of him. Remember, you go out there, You have to keep on fighting. And nobody really cares All right, Leech, come on out. Save it for me, sheriff. All right, Leech, come on. Daniels. Daniels. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] [GUNSHOT] Here you go, Leech. [GUNSHOTS] King, it's a dead end. Come on, Leech. He did it, Mr. Dowdy. Sure. Oh, Will. Oh, Will. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] Bainey, what are you doing here? I told him, Mr. Leech. I told him I wouldn't take that. I saw Mr. Harmon leaving the Tiny's? My dad said it. He said Tiny's one of them. I told them what they'd He said it's your I guess nobody wants Yeah. Go back, Bainey. You can't make me. Mr. Harmon's the cause of it, If people around that they think I'm Harmon. Harmon, this is Leech. Daniels let me have Throw your gun down and Can you see him? No. I'm going to get out Hold it, Harmon. Hit me again, Tiny, You're no good, mister. And a lot of people know. Drop that old gun, boy. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] Come on, move. I killed him Mr. Leech. He was choking me. I had to. Don't worry about it, Bainey. Things will work out. Give me that gun. (SINGING) A star made A symbol of men Always ready for the call, A law man must always A star is a symbol so they say. And I'll never Always ready for the call, wear A law man must [MUSIC PLAYING]