The Millennium Falcon is a great ship. And yet, I don't want one. What I'd like is a &quot;Aha&quot;, say exactly seven people, &quot;I know the Falcon was originally made by CEC, It is quite old, a YT-1300 class light model number by now. Some of you already know to your mind probe is considerable, it No, I'm going to reveal something a bit point to my being... a hipster. Not I assure you. When one thing is popular, I That's why I'm not content to fly a copy of Han's ship. HAN: Watch your mouth kid, or you're Enough about me, you came here to hear about spaceships. There are thousands of YT-1300 freighters in perfectly legitimate business, and the other half of the Empire, demand and prices went absolutely make a copy of the Falcon. Even other Corellian back down afterwards. These ships are incredibly there's no cost to insisting on a YT-1300. In such luxury. Some of us are on a limited budget, What options are there, for those of I've mentioned the YT-2400. This it has even greater upgrade potential. The hull stock power generators. It's clear that CEC You could use all that internal space for cargo LUKE: Boy! It's lucky you had these compartments. In practice, most owners tend to install enough upgrades that it's no more roomy than last model. Before any modification, the YT-2400 has a surprising amount of armour. Let's take a case study, the most famous example. One ship is owned by a man named Dash Rendar. The Outrider. If you want what is essentially another Falcon, Using the sublight engines, Outrider LUKE: Why don't you outrun 'em? I thought you said this thing was fast! These were Dash's first upgrade, replacing them with three military sublight engines. How does one acquire such [DZ takes a deft jab at JarJar Abrams] Who let JJ in here? We're busy talking Where was I? Oh yes, the missing KonGar KGDefender a scoundrel. A smuggler with attitude. When you He is cocky, caustic, and as mercenary as Han smuggling is when a transaction is in exchange for something. When the authorities three engines were not smuggled. The authorities When it comes to hyperspace, the turntable and the Millennium Falcon races ahead. Hyperdrives As always, Star Trek makes for an interesting by a warp factor. The starship can throttle her warp factor. Each ship has a maximum warp cruising speed. Travelling at high warp is only can often be overclocked beyond maximum warp. In Star Wars, we don't see throttling in and it runs at its inherent, native speed. lower is better. Civilian vessels are Military hyperdrives are generally class 1 or of swiftness. Being stranded in deep space is backup hyperdrive. They are around class 12 class 10 backup hyperdrive. The Falcon's main has a SoroSuub Griffyn/YT2G hyperdrive. It can than enough. I've heard rumours of a ship with All we know for certain is that the Millennium Another difference between Falcon model comes with cannons as standard, but two quad laser turrets. The Outrider has this means the Falcon is better The Outrider has the arms and like a corvette or frigate. Both ships have a Both ships have heavily upgraded wouldn't be disappointed to wind up with the Oh, and one more thing. The Outrider was in the Mos Eisley spaceport. This is certainly a pleasant little nod to canon, and it has another function. It allows getting this far through the video. Not However, if you accept this change, you're also canon is whatever Disney says it is. Some say not acceptable to me, you can't just go and change length of a super star destroyer, the second one looked up, instead of giving an incorrect value. Therefore, Han will always have shot first. It entertainment product: I know what I saw. shot from the Rodian. There, that ought Now imagine, if you will, a light number. Inconceivable! Believe it or not, isn't a flying saucer. The Corellian Engineering perfect for listening to rock'n'roll. stereo for me tunes. Then again, it lest you become The Prisoner. This is a ship or at least that's what I can tell you. At This is a more modern ship than the previous a hull taller than it is wide? My goodness, actually. The lower half of the ship is the et cetera. To fully appreciate this If you'll excuse me. One of the bounty hunters Bossk was born or hatched in 54 BBY: dunno, though, is where the planet Trandosha is. It happens to be in the same star system These lizardmen do not get on well with the to do with the way they like to skin Wookiees and a grudge for another reason: the Empire. as slave labour, after negotiations with the hunt any fuzzballs that escaped the Empire. Bossk has a grudge against one specific Wookiee. on reputation. On the world Gandolo 4, Bossk another star system, gallivanting off to chat up when Han landed the Falcon on top of it. Bossk He named his new ship the Hound's Tooth. black-and-white patterned jacket. One unusual intended for Wookiees, but it's multipurpose. an armoury of hunting weapons. Bossk doesn't he modified the Hound's Tooth to be flown solo. X10-D droid brain, which took voice commands. the Nashtah Pup. There is a docking under a large hatch. You'll just have to imagine The Hound's Tooth is both fast and agile, the large fins on the ship, which are helpful in since they contain a set of thruster arrays. armed than the bounty hunter. The Hound's Tooth The Falcon has two quad lasers, and the ships carry concussion missiles, but the Rendar has two launch tubes with 3 missiles for magazine of 6 missiles. Clearly the YV-666 is a One very cool option would be a Mon Calamari light Empire auctioned them off. The DeepWater-class 45 metres long. Despite that, they are and agile to boot. What really sets the they can travel underwater as well as in deep the two environments, and it still can't dive any other ship in the galaxy. In the water, it that shoundsh exshellent! The only problem is get a new YT-1300. Or four used ones, a ship costs So, why is it that I don't want to fly an I have my heart set on a Ghtroc 720. They look a much different from the YT-1300. There is no good possible advantage is that everyone looking In their stock forms, the both in space and atmosphere. With sublight the G720 is more manoeuvrable than the YT-1300. are debatable. The Corellian ship has a single fixed forward. The YT series are considered I want this freighter to haul cargo, not it'll be superior: up to 135 tons in the cargo the same 100-ton cargo bay. This is partly and the Ghtroc is 35 metres. Passenger capacity is Obviously it'll need some upgrades. First of all, but it would be good to have some options to shields is essential. Then my planned one dorsal and one ventral. and give excellent firing arcs. Then, it's time to really start overhauling install an oversized power generator. and save time. Don't want to get caught fiddling good pairing of shield generator and projector. Finally, the list of dream modifications. In That gives more speed in a straight I need to hit at least class 1. Maybe even it. To increase agility, the forward sunlight I'll replace the fixed forward cannons with trying to squeeze in a turbolaser, but I Maybe even a triple, given there's regarding concussion missiles or proton all your profits out the launch tubes. Now you know why I'm not interested in in the tabletop RPGs. Why, the West End computer game that allows for this is the I've found are Rebel Galaxy 1, and Elite but I can't play X3 and X4 until I've there are other options. Otherwise, Personally, I'm not the greatest mechanic. There are things I'd be able to handle on my Or a dozen of them. The stereotypical companion little droid. They're also very sleek: just Those two models are covered in arms, where R2 unit is the gold standard for astromech what? I'm not sure I can afford one. Luckily, covered. I've always loved the IA brand, you know Allow me to introduce the R5 astromech droid. This particular one is R5-D4, who intentionally Without being asked, I might add. which is not as incorrect as you might think. In just a variation on the base model. The R5 is but cheaper. Much cheaper, the cheapest astromech to buy something quite that cheap. The R5 swaps design. Uniquely, it also drops the standard R2's the typical visual sensors for a droid. The prone to breaking down. The savings in the initial bill. This droid is meant to carry out repairs, develop an abrasive, difficult personality. No, The Industrial Automaton company accepted the After the fall of the Empire, they launched the style of the R5, but went back to the radar iteration of the R2, devoid of personality and especially since the R6 is cheaper than an R2. But they aren't available during the Empire's reign. You see, the R5 was an attempt to The R4 is almost as inexpensive as the later R5, you might be able to find an off-brand The R4 was built for the customer who which is to say most people. Sometimes they're droids. The R4 is perfect to help you maintain my previous purchase. Some tools have been There is no contest: the One final side-note, from the prequels. Obi-Wan In both cases, he has a dark red droid in his and I happen to know it is R4-P17. If you've droid has the domed head of an R2, not the and two different attempts have been made to job. Obi-Wan's astro-droid is indeed an R4, but very plausible, I like that. The world is much The other explanation has to we know that the Naboo N-1 starfighter Artoo has to telescope his legs into themselves in order to fit. Both the Delta-7 and That would be fine, except the astromech line. This causes a problem, because that cross-section. The entire bottom half fuselage. To solve this, some say the R4-P the R4-P is almost spherical, to That is a good way of solving both problems, with R2-D2 aboard. We know what shape R2-D2 is, What's going on, how could this have it shouldn't have made it And just like so many Disney mistakes, thought and attention. The design in Episode II without modifications. The Aethersprite can use Suppose that instead of a socket in the wing, behind the pilot. In front of the cockpit could there does not exist any reliable source for astro-droid. That is fine, because we Aethersprite. Attack of the Clones is Contrast with Episode III, which is not possible. Nor is it excusable: the artists and model-makers would be harder to cheat by airbrushing out Again, Obi-Wan has a plausible design, even if there's no reason for it to be built so The Actis is different from the Aethersprite, This means the only possible position for the standard position seen on OT. Since B-Wings and TIE Fighters don't Ho ho ho! We have caught you in our trap. Ensnared you. You aren't going anywhere. We have Patreon stuff to read YOUR NAME HERE YOUR NAME HERE Well. That's embarrassing.. For our audience. We'll level with you. Before we were doing this, had been installing them near waterfalls and nightmare. Click the Patreon link in the But, the best reason to become a Patreon? We And we never will.