Hi everybody. Nowadays, the livestock sector has started to invest more in technology. This increases production efficiency and creates incredible techniques. In this video, we talk about the main technologies and techniques used in animal farms. You will see many of these inventions used in farms for the first time. The sheep loader is designed for ewes, rams and very large sheep. No more heavy lifting as this machines eliminates the need to catch and drag. Compressed air holds and rotates sheep ready for loading onto cradles for processing. This system provides great convenience in processes such as sheep care and shearing of wool. This machine is designed for easy and effective hoof care of large animals. All movements are controlled by a hydraulic system. In this way, hoof care requires less physical strength and becomes more precise. It also offers the opportunity to perform hoof care without stressing the animals. This system is used to protect sheep from parasites. It can be easily transported on farms and used in different places. It is easy to use and does not require any special knowledge. Parasites are killed by washing sheep in a special solution. It prevents diseases caused by parasites and ensures that sheep are healthier and more productive. FeedMixer is built for cutting up silos, round bales, square bales and most types of roughage. It cuts most types of round bales and silage. The degree of cutting varies according to consistency and type of forage. It is therefore well suited to mixing complete feed, where you often want to mix feed of very different consistency and character. The AQUATRAINER is a unique device used for rehabilitation and training by means of walking in water. This method of training assists greatly in the process of recovering from various types of injuries. Walking in water requires a great deal of effort on the part of the horse. The horse walks against the pressure of the water, which means that the horses will use the entire body more. Both the speed of the belt as well as the depth of the water can be varied. This way, the training can be completely adjusted to the needs of the horse. This system allows milking of dairy cows simultaneously and in parallel rows. It has an ergonomic and efficient design. It is ergonomically designed for milkers to work comfortably. It reduces labor costs and optimizes the milking process. High quality milk is obtained thanks to hygienic conditions. Spray-Race is an effective solution for animal spraying. The tunnel structure allows continuous animal movement and reduces animal stress. This improves pest control and reduces labor. Chicken Cat is designed to prevent chickens from being injured while being caught by hand and to reduce labor costs. The main structure of the machine consists of a collecting head system, operated by hydraulics. The collector consists of three barrel-like drums that rotate one against another. The surface of the drums very gently lifts the chickens onto the collector and then onto the conveyor. This conveyor belt brings the chickens into containers placed on the rotating loading platform. This machine makes the work on the chicken farm much easier and does not harm the chickens. The Assaf breed is known for its high milk yield and quality meat. This association brings together producers engaged in the breeding of the Assaf sheep breed in Spain. They carry out studies to improve the genetic structure of the breed in advanced facilities. Thanks to the work of this association, the Assaf breed has gained an important place in the dairy cattle sector. Assaf milk and meat contribute to food safety thanks to its high nutritional value and reliability. Milk yield is regularly checked on farms and the genetic potential of the breed is maximized. This system was produced to make the work easier in livestock farms. This straw blower robot does not require any human intervention. It is used in various livestock farms. These include sheep, cattle and goats. This system allows animals to live in a healthy and comfortable environment. This system is a special equipment designed to facilitate various sheep care processes. These cages ensure that sheep are kept safely and that various processes are carried out more efficiently. It can be used for many different processes such as vaccination, medication, feather trimming, nail care. It gives the sheep minimum stress and ensures that the animals are more comfortable during the processes. Farmquip is widely used in the livestock sector, especially in Argentina and surrounding countries. It produces equipment for cattle breeding. It has fences to confine animals safely, equipment for separating them into groups, treating them or transporting them. Farmquip offers modular systems that can be customized according to needs. Everything necessary to protect the health of animals is considered.