(upbeat music) (soft music) - I'm starting this with a mini meal prep. Essentially, I take 30-ish that I can use to make my tastier and easier. So first up is a simple featuring chopped walnuts, that I tossed with olive I like to use parchment paper so that cleanup is a total breeze. It needs about 12 minutes in tossing halfway through until it is perfectly golden and toasty. This stuff will stay good in but if I'm being honest, because I like to put it on pretty much every salad, grain It's nutty, it's crunchy, and Next, I whipped up my I feel like balsamic has gone out of style in favor like Green Goddess, but I think and it is one that I So I start my version with And if you want to avoid big chunks, grating them is the way to go. Then of course you need It helps to have a good but it doesn't have to be I think this one from Whole A big spoonful of Dijon plus, you know, a little Maple syrup helps to balance And then of course I added and extra virgin olive oil. So you can just seal your jar to emulsify, but if you like to make lattes, this super well, but it's than a whole blender. (soft music) This stuff is drinkable, so good. Tart, savory, a little And I like putting it in a to store in the fridge, And last but not least, I made If you saw the &quot;What I did this summer, you're with this one. It's super creamy, deliciously It's just like the perfect dip or spread. I tossed a couple garlic to quickly mince them, of extra firm tofu. For a double umami boost, of nutritional yeast, as It helps if you get it Lemon zest and lemon juice And then of course, my very best friend, extra virgin olive oil And then you just need From there, it's simply until it gets really creamy. It did want a slightly fluffier, So I added a tablespoon of ice water. This is actually what and it works great here too. I mean, just look at that texture. It is perfection. And this stuff will for a whole week. So I've got my mini meal prep complete. And this took like 30 minutes. And of course, these on their own, but they for the next several days so I've got some crunch, we've we've got some creamy deliciousness. So I'm gonna wash up all the dishes and then I'm gonna get started on dinner. I started dinner by scrubbing that I had been itching to use up because they are one of my Oops. As I was saying, honey nut squash, one of my favorite fall vegetables. It's like a sweeter, smaller, of butternut squash. And it roasts up not only For now, I am treating them super simply, just olive oil, salt and pepper before they get popped in the oven. But I will give them a (soft music) Meanwhile, I filled up a pot of water and got some black beluga lentils going. I love this particular and a little peppery in flavor. Plus they hold their shape well, so they're not gonna get mushy on you. I am making more lentils than I need for this particular dish, so that I can use some in a couple different ways. While the squash and lentils I used the rest of my downtime to make a miso glaze for the squash. It's just a generous amount of miso, some apple cider vinegar and tamari, a little bit of brown sugar It's savory, it's sweet and it's got a nice After 20 minutes in the oven, I took out the squash and generously brushed To help set the glaze and let I put it back in the oven, this time at 500 degrees When it was time to plate, I started with a generous followed by the gorgeous a little fresh parsley, a and a few spoons of that Look how cute this is. I'm so delighted by this I mean, I cannot wait to dive in. I've never tried this, so we shall see. I think it's gonna be This is almost the perfect fall dish. It basically melts in your mouth with the super tender but you get a nice little and the walnuts and the pepitas. The only thing missing, however, is a nice big crusty slab of bread, so you can just scoop it all up and just shove it in your mouth. I'm gonna go check my freezer now to see if we have any bread because it would be delicious here, and I will see you tomorrow. Cheers. This morning started slow and cozy, just how I like my Fridays. Per usual, I made a mug which is just a gentler way to start the morning than with caffeine. Every time I make this tea, I get questions about what's in it, so I'm just gonna let you know. It's one teaspoon each of fennel seeds, and fenugreek seeds, and then you steep it in boiling water for five, 10 minutes, and that's it. A bit later, I did go back for a caffeinated morning While I love the taste of matcha is my everyday caffeine of choice because it provides a After doing a bit of work and planning out my content I decided to get started on breakfast. I recently saw that the to be the healthiest so I've been trying to and eat more of that. I made a quick watercress arugula salad with the balsamic and some hemp seeds for protein. I'm not a scientist, but I'm pretty sure I just added a couple years Then I got a generous also from yesterday's meal prep, onto a slice of this gorgeous from my local bakery before Added a few pickled onions for and I had a little excess salad, so I just added that to the side. This gets two thumbs up from me. It's delicious, it feels indulgent, even though I'm eating and with the creamy I mean, how bad could that be? Later in the morning, I because one, I'm headed to and I wanted to bring and two, because it's fall, and this is what you do in fall. You make pumpkin bread. I started with the vegan buttermilk, which is just plant milk and that helps to keep the And then whisk together just all-purpose flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt. The real superstar of the recipe is the homemade pumpkin spice, which has a generous amount plus ginger, allspice, and nutmeg. Okay, so this is whole nutmeg. This is from my aunt's tree in India, and it's got this hard, protective shell. You just crack it, and you can buy at a grocery store. Always buy whole nutmeg So much better. It's more nuanced, but fresher, obviously. So buy the whole stuff. Pumpkin bread can be quite So to give it some lightness and lift, I lightly whipped some And aquafaba, by the way, is just the liquid from and it is a fantastic Then I mix some oil and before combining that with the The whipped aquafaba, a can shout out to Libby, the vegan a little maple syrup, (soft music) I gently folded the dry and then it was ready to bake. One must always taste one's batter. Excellent. Got my loaf pan lined These little flaps are helpful for when you pull it out of the oven, but they kinda go everywhere when you're pouring the batter in. Get yourself some little clips like these. (meows) You know, it stays in very nice. But of course, once you take these off, don't bake them. You'll be very sad if you do. This baby needs 55, maybe So in the meantime, I cleaned up and got started on making the A few tablespoons of the same amount of softened then fold in the organic powdered sugar. And once it was fluffy, I a pinch of salt, and a little lemon juice to keep things nice and tart. This frosting is incredible. It is so lovely with the tart zinginess. It's not overly sweet. Unfortunately, I'm gonna have to wait until tomorrow to frost this because we're going to my but just know that it's delicious. For lunch, I decided using some of the leftovers I mashed up the flesh from with a drizzle of tahini folded in some of the for protein and fiber, and champagne vinegar to I wanted to add more veggies to this meal, so I peeled some carrots and chopped up a Fresno pepper because I like things a little spicy. To serve, I spread a inside a whole wheat pita and then stuffed it with And I made a last minute decision to grab some broccoli sprouts, and I mixed those into the and then just a super simple dressing of my best olive oil and vinegar. (soft music) My favorite kind of lunch is where I can remix some leftovers and it's done in 10 minutes or less. And this has so many It's got the creaminess and the mashed squash, nice chewiness from the and of course that nice crisp a little kick from the Fresno chili. There is one downside. These carrots are a little too long. I should have cut them All right, I'll see you later. After lunch, I spent some uploading footage for this video, writing the voiceovers that at the moment, very meta. And I also finished off the because what's an afternoon without a little chocolate pick-me-up. For dinner, I made a that is packed with I know salad for dinner but please watch because it's I started off by making which is one of my go-to easy proteins. Once I pressed the tofu, and tossed them with olive followed by a light which is what helps the While the tofu baked, I First up, a lot of kale, like a lot. Well, technically not this but since I had some downtime I prepped extra kale so I later in the week. Kale can be a little, let's So first I tore it into small pieces, and then I massaged it with to make it nice and tender. I also sliced a sweet and tossed that in with the kale. I wanted some chewy so I grabbed some dried cherries. Oh. What is that? Well, that was a fail. Luckily, I always have so I chopped up a couple of those instead. I added in more of last night's lentils, plus a few items from the balsamic vinaigrette and And I added some vegan feta to (soft music) The tofu was just about so I popped that on top as well. If you think salad is Okay, that was mean. You should try the salad It's gonna make you The balsamic vinaigrette really Got that nice sweetness from creaminess from the feta. I'm so excited to eat So I'll see you tomorrow night, I'll see you whenever. (soft music) As I get older, I'm that will be better for my future self, things that I can easily add into my life that don't feel like a So I started wearing a weighted on my morning walk because with maintaining bone - [Max] How's that vest - It feels great. My shoulders don't ache at all. And I look super cool. - [Max] You look like but missing the pack part. - And as a Saturday morning treat, I picked up a soy latte And when I got home, I the pumpkin bread I baked the day before. There is something so satisfying about spreading frosting on a cake. I also added some pepitas and I'm not gonna lie, I really, really wanted to eat a slice but I thought it would be rude to deliver half eaten pumpkin bread. So I made my own breakfast instead and leftovers came to the rescue. I spread that gorgeous creamy whipped tofu over toasted sourdough, and we had leftover from And I smashed them down with a fork so they wouldn't fall off the bread and topped it all with A nice drizzle of olive to season the greens and lentils, plus flaky sea salt to finish. Light, yet satisfying, - [Max] Where are we going? - Oh, to my parents' place. Cousin's visiting, and I'm per usual. - [Max] Beautiful fall day. - Never tell what time of year it is here. For lunch, my mom served pav bhaji, which I will admit is It is a little messy, but it tastes amazing. It's basically mashed vegetables with lots of warming Indian spices. You serve it with soft, buttery bread. It just, it hits every time. If you'd like to see a let me know in the comments. So after lunch, which featured my mom force-feeding me pav bhaji and eating pumpkin bread for dessert, I'm in the mood for something a little more vegetable-forward. I'm gonna make the buttery from my cookbook, and I am than I would normally make dinner, just so that you can see it Cabbage is a wildly underrated and this is one of my So I cut the cabbage into wedges and seared them in a hot cast iron pan until they were caramelized and charred. The charring really adds this in addition to that as the cabbage cooks down. I set that aside and got started I bloomed some cumin seeds in olive oil to bring out their nutty aroma, and then added sliced shallots and garlic, followed by a lovely warming spice mix, which makes the dish feel cozier and even more perfect for fall. I stirred in some canned and mixed in a bit of maple syrup just to give the sauce a subtle sweetness, and then nestled the cabbage I also added a can of chickpeas and just braised everything until the cabbage was and the sauce had thickened a little bit. (upbeat music) In the meantime, I chopped up some parsley and whipped up one of my a lemon tahini sauce. This recipe is also in my cookbook, and all you need is good quality tahini... Where were we? The juice from one large juicy lemon, some grated garlic, salt, cumin, and a bit of maple syrup. It's ridiculously creamy if you mix in some ice water, and I would be happy to pour this stuff on pretty much anything. I served this gorgeous that Max cooked in the Instant Pot while the cabbage was searing, plus the chopped parsley (soft music) Probably not gonna actually eat dinner for another 45 minutes, an hour, but it looks so good, I need to have just a little taste test. I remember why I called the 'cause even though there's it's so buttery, it melts in your mouth. This is like my dream and I am so excited, this After dinner, we went for and decided to grab some ice cream. - [Max] You're sniffing the weed? - It just looks nice with the sun back. The only vegan flavor they had in stock was pumpkin spiced latte, Very interesting texture. That's actually good. I can taste cloves and allspice in there. Mm, I gave it a seven out of 10. Too sweet, though, I'm I feel like I'm gonna It's just too sweet. So there is a house on this street that has the most incredible I'm not a big Halloween person, but they take it over the top. It's kind of spooky even Spooky. (playful music) - Let's play a game. (screams) (soft music) - Sunday morning started with with soy milk, and yes, I I used for my balsamic vinaigrette. I washed it, though, so it's not weird. Cheers. I don't love this stuff, but and I can drink it quickly, After my workout, I decided with garlicky spinach and yogurt sauce. I'm not trying to break a for Sunday brunch, so I just I dried off the chickpeas, and made the spice blend, which cumin, onion and garlic plus a pinch of kala namak By the way, I'm using the word I just pulse the chickpeas until they're kind of before they turn into a paste, and I saute them in a until they're golden stirring just occasionally to get nice and crunchy in spots before adding the spice blend. While the chickpeas cooked, which is just creamy coconut yogurt, lemon juice, salt, some chili flakes, and today I decided to Once the chickpeas were golden, I spooned them over the yogurt sauce and then quickly sauteed the and added a nice big mound of baby spinach before plating everything together. And I made this as one big completed with a big scoop of sauerkraut for some gut-healthy goodness Since it was Sunday morning, and had a very leisurely breakfast while we read our respective novels. And yeah, I know it looks like summer, but I promise it's actually late October. San Diego just kind of For lunch, I kept it really simple with leftovers from the night before. I just reheated the buttery until it was hot. And to make it a bit heartier, I added some leftover cooked lentils, the gift that keeps on giving this week. And I served it over a bed of brown rice with the tahini sauce. And I am pleased to report are just as tasty as they After lunch, we decided to And again, there might be on the trees where you live, and it might be a brisk 49 degrees, but here it still looks It was actually so hot shorter than expected because that we would get dehydrated. For dinner, I made a This is my favorite way and turn it into something without very much work. I started by heating a with some of this algae oil, which has a super high smoke point and lots of good healthy fats. Added the leftover brown with a bit of salt. And I let this cook with minimal stirring since the goal is to get the I also had some leftover so I sliced it thinly and stir fried that until it was starting to soften. Added some chopped garlic, and then some of the leftover baked tofu from two nights ago, I believe. Continuing with the theme I grabbed some massaged kale and tossed that with leftover Tossed in the crispy brown rice and stir fried cabbage and tofu, plus a few tablespoons because I really like my crunch. Let's get a bite of this big ol' bowl. This is really good, especially for how much And I think it would with the tahini dressing instead of the balsamic vinaigrette, but I already ate the tahini dressing with dinner yesterday so I kinda wanna just mix things up. But more importantly, and gave it two thumbs up, which is a huge win in getting so I am very pleased. I had been waiting a literal week for this pear to ripen, and tragically- Oh no. It turned out to be quite spoiled. So I grabbed an apple instead and dusted it with cinnamon and ginger and a spoonful of almond butter. A sweet but nourishing (upbeat music) I started my morning with a steamy hot cup of this adaptogenic coffee I have no clue if there are but it does have cacao and fermented tea, it tastes good, and it so I am rolling with it. And then I decided to make I found this recipe for tempeh from my recipe archives and I don't think I've made it since then, so I was curious to see how this recipe held up after four years. I crumbled a block of tempeh and I almost always thinly slice or finely crumble my tempeh, because it just makes it less dense and easier for the I also chopped some and whipped together a smoky spiced sauce with chili powder, cumin, smoked paprika, plus a bit of tamari and agave nectar. After sauteing the garlic and jalapenos, I added the tempeh for about five minutes, followed by a bit of tomato paste just to make it richer and more flavorful. And then the sauce plus a to just give it that extra smoky flavor. (soft music) Once the tempeh was cooked, I mashed up a ripe avocado and then heated up some tortillas in a dish towel in the microwave for some very delicious taco action. A layer of avocado, the tempeh, and some pickled onions for tang. I've never tried this recipe, so I'm very curious to It's smoky and spicy and a little sweet, and honestly, anything with avocado mash and pickled onions is a win in my book. Even Max, the resident tempeh For lunch, I threw of a bunch of leftovers. I started with some massaged kale and added a squeeze of lemon and spooned on some leftover tahini sauce, plus some reheated brown rice, and a scoop of whipped tofu, a nice big sprinkling of the and for a little color some red cabbage sauerkraut. Not bad for three minutes of work. For dinner, I made a and if I can be honest for a second, I filmed this at 1 p.m. into a reel for Instagram. Such is the life of a You're always cooking before or you're eating cold food. This recipe is a riff from my channel and blog, which remains my most popular So I started with the fresh turmeric, and serrano peppers, and also added some To switch things up from I also diced some sweet potatoes and a touch of sweetness. Once you've done the prep, it You just saute the aromatics add in the spice blend, pour red lentils, and sweet potatoes, and let it simmer for 20-ish minutes. Then you pour in the coconut for lots of richness. I actually slightly prefer almond butter. I'm not a huge peanut but it is delicious either way. And then I just tossed in a for some green action, Cilantro and a squeeze of lemon How good does this look? When you see this on the 'gram, be sure to like, share, This is the perfect fall curry. It's got those and those warming Indian spices. And you can find this recipe, plus all of the recipes in a free PDF guide. Just scan this QR code or click the link in the I'll see you in the next video, bye.