They say history books are written by the But some of the winners in your history books Here's a look at why these respected historical Woodrow Wilson is considered by many to be he passed the first child labor laws, established the eight-hour day. Wilson shored up antitrust laws, helped end suffrage, even if he didn't outright support So he was indeed a pretty progressive president. Assuming you were white. Yes, unfortunately Wilson was also an irredeemable, In his book A History of the American People, ignorant and inferior race,&quot; saying of the &quot;It was a menace to society itself that the and left without tutelage or restraint.&quot; And his policies reflected this belief. As president, he actually re-segregated the According to historian Sheldon Stern, Wilson supervisors in federal service, replacing According to historian Lloyd Ambrosius, during a proposal for racial equality in the League just nationally, but also globally. Oh, and there was also the fact that he publicly massive nationwide surge of open racism that Not only did he hold a private screening of the White House, the film actually includes &quot;There had sprung into existence a great Ku to protect the Southern country.&quot; So when you hear the words &quot;institutionalized for institutionalizing it. Wilson wasn't the only major figure at the dripping racism. Henry Ford was also one of the most virulently Ford was also, of course, one of America's who literally changed the world. He not only transformed the way people get but Ford also revolutionized industry by creating He also hated Jews. And even the Henry Ford Museum says, quote, In 1918, Ford bought a local newspaper called he began using the paper as a vehicle for He would later collect his Jew-bashing articles Foremost Problem, which would go on to sell a dozen languages. Just how influential were Ford's racist views? In 1931, the rising German political figure News reporter, who noticed that Hitler had Hitler said, &quot;I regard Henry Ford as my inspiration.&quot; Hitler also wrote about Ford in his racist only person in America not controlled by Jews. &quot;Only a single great man, Ford, to their fury, In 1938, four months after Hitler annexed Germany could give a foreigner in honor of Under Ford, the Ford Motor Company continued the war, with their European factories helping fight American soldiers. John Lennon was half of one of the greatest influential bands of the 20th century. The Beatles had 20 number-one hits, 34 Billboard tunes on the planet. And after leaving the Beatles, Lennon became sentiments in his music and protesting against Behind the scenes, however, Lennon had a violent on the women he was involved with. That he physically abused his first wife, only something he admitted to, he actually songs, as &quot;Getting Better&quot; includes the line &quot;I used to be cruel to my woman, I beat her loved.&quot; He openly admitted his history of violence &quot;I used to be cruel to my woman, and physically...any I was a hitter.&quot; Lennon modeled his behavior on his father, them both, just as Lennon abused his first child. If there's anything to be said in Lennon's as he got older. Sean Lennon, John's son with second wife Yoko &quot;I think his greatest achievement was recognising stop it.&quot; &quot;And I really believe women have the worst...whatever the woman who takes it when they get home Roald Dahl created fantastic stories enjoyed His characters aren't merely beloved, many Unfortunately, Dahl's dark humor and comic darker and far more serious within him. &quot;I think the more successful you become in The creator of Willy Wonka was such a jerk him &quot;Roald the Rotten.&quot; Aside from just being a jerk, he also cheated friend, and even while she was recovering He also had to revise several books because including The BFG and Charlie and the Chocolate Dahl said, &quot;It didn't occur to me that my depiction of to the NAACP and others...which is why I revised Dahl said those were just oversights, and supposedly supposed to be dark skinned rather But Dahl never tried to deny his deep anti-Semitism, by saying &quot;Hitler didn't just pick on them for no reason.&quot; Coco Chanel is one of the world's most influential designer who originally founded the company. Chanel liked the high life and was known to politicians, and, spoiler alert, German military Nazi gear was pretty haute couture after all. When war broke out, Chanel secured lodging After the fall of France, many German officers reportedly shared more than Coco's address. Not only was she literally in bed with a Nazi, the Nazis too, as documents only recently was secretly working as a Nazi spy. And not only did she work for the Nazis, she her business partners. A French documentarian told The Jerusalem &quot;...with the help of the Nazis occupying France, of her Jewish associates.&quot; After the Nazis were driven out of Paris, as a Nazi collaborator. She managed to get off scot free, though; Churchill interceded on her behalf, possibly about other suspected Nazi collaborators within Theodore Roosevelt is on Mount Rushmore, right Lincoln. That's how highly Americans think of the president He passed food and drug safety regulations, environmental conservation, made the first Canal started, enacted laws to protect workers So he did a lot of great stuff. But he was also an unrepentant nationalist, Roosevelt believed in the superiority of the right to take what they wanted. He wrote in Winning the American West that, &quot;All men of sane and wholesome thought must these continents should be reserved for the Roosevelt believed in the literal supremacy any effort to expand that civilization, saying &quot;I don't go so far as to think that the only nine out of every ten are.&quot; As such an ardent believer in the inherent expansion overseas, both as Secretary of the When the US defeated Spain and took the Philippines for subduing the Filipinos by force, resulting of dead Filipinos in a forgotten war that A highly charismatic warrior who sacrificed Guevara has become an inspirational meme to ironic considering chances are he'd kill most While other revolutionary leaders like Gandhi non-violence, Guevara went completely in the He wrote in his &quot;Message to the Tricontinental&quot; &quot;...hatred as an element of struggle; unbending being beyond his natural limitations, making and cold-blooded killing machine.&quot; He was also racist and homophobic in his policies. The revolution wasn't for the people, it was Anyone who didn't toe his line faced death. He and Fidel Castro established labor and for anyone needing to correct their &quot;anti-social and homosexuals. When setting up the new regime in Cuba, Che's &quot;If in doubt, kill him.&quot; Thomas Edison has over one thousand patents of Congress as &quot;one of the most famous and The influence he's had on the fields of electric the lives and livelihoods of billions of people. The advances he and his company made in sound new mediums for entertainment, changing human Thomas Edison's innovative spirit also manifested Despite his reputation as an inventor, he who regularly placed personal gain and power a look at how he screwed over true innovator He also engaged in a running feud with rival Edison's company produced direct current, alternating current, or AC. Edison started a slander campaign against To try and prove his point, Edison staged animals for show. During this campaign, he murdered not just named Topsy. Fans of the film The Greatest Showman know Barnum spent decades as ringmaster to the But the movie totally retconned the uncomfortable on the often heartless exploitation of his Yes, it's true: his most callous exhibition by leasing an elderly enslaved woman named former nurse of George Washington. When Heth died in 1836, Barnum actually hosted saloon, charging 50 cents per person to watch. According to Smithsonian Magazine, Barnum he was not a racist. But as Barnum biographer Benjamin Reiss said, &quot;With Barnum you never know if that's part Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Grunge videos about your favorite Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the