This is Dr. Tom Biernacki And do you have dry cracked feet? Hey, it's winter. I live in Michigan. I see this stuff I'm going to show you the causes I'm going to show you the tips, practically stuff that you can start doing North starting now. What are the causes of dry, cracked feet? Number one, it's a lack of moisture. Our skin. It takes 30 days to grow. There is a layer of stem cells on the bottom of the foot. The stem cells essentially grow They get stronger. And then there's a thick dead skin layer The five levels of the skin Number two, the spineless layer three, scaly layers are the stratum cornum These are the thick portion. happens as the bottom of your feet They have five layers of skin Blood vessels But when it gets dry in the wintertime, a lot of harsh conditions It can break, it can rip. And then fungus bacteria can get in there. It gets itchy, That's the mechanism. There's not a ton of secret behind it, So this stratum corneum makes up the vast And when it's dry, when it's dehydrated, you can see it starts to detach And you'll also get a thick it's That's when splits happen. Especially when the skin gets dehydrated, So, number one, lack of moisture. Essentially, if water can leave that dry because there's not a lot of blood It's not really like, hey, It's really like, hey, blood So when it's cold those are things more likely to dry out When you take a shower then that moisture can leave that dead It basically can crack, twist and split Things to consider are dry weather, if you're dehydrated as well, So a lot of my patients have peripheral If you have cold feet, That means there's not a ton of blood flow And what happens is when it's winter time to your blood and prevent as much blood flow from going You can see that They don't actually even reach corneas with that fake wavy, There's no blood vessels at all. So when it's dehydrated, when it's cold, Drinking a little bit of water Can this two harsh soaps that protect your skin and they dehydrate Hot showers, hot baths. If you're washing your hands frequently, twice a day, especially in the winter this will strip your skin of natural oils Cold weather There's not as much water, Another one age. The older you get, everything gets worse. I don't think I have to tell you And medical conditions, eczema, psoriasis, Thyroid disorders, a big one is diabetes. Diabetes, Essentially, there's less nutrition It gets more dry, cracks Diabetics have dry cracked feet. This can lead to diabetic foot If you have any of these serious wounds ulcer, guide our ankle ulcer guide, Very important conditions. And check out or vascular that blood flow down to your feet. Those are very important things And those are the real root causes. But don't worry, we're going to go over So keep watching So not regularly moisturizing This could lead to excess This could let bacteria fungus It itches more. Another one is ill fitting shoes, If you develop thick, hard calluses If you're to come see a podiatrist we can clean It's all covered stuff because it's important Come visit me in Michigan. I have guides on how to treat it But if you have skin conditions, And rarely in some cases, sweating, there's creams, there's sprays I have guides on excessive Below, there's allergies, irritants, certain types of socks, I have guides on all that below. Then there's foot fungus, toenail fungus, These are actual fungal I have guides on all of that. Check that out below. They're linked in the comments We're going to go over all this as well. So dry, cracked feet treatment I'm going to run through these and show you what the most important ones, is they don't actually let me show There's nothing I'd love to show actually treating these things as I have up, the videos get demonetized So apologies and see if there's any tips and tricks how to get these videos That's the tricky thing All my videos like my wounds, my ulcers, they don't let me actually show Help me out in the comments. Give me some likes, give me some subscribes, vitamin deficiency. So there's a lot of vitamins Again, I will emphasize although it could be, Vitamin and a deficiency can lead to flaky skin, Vitamin A is famous for its skin roles. It helps with cell It's useful for acne, skin It's popular in dermatology, but it's important to get the vitamin 700 to 900 micrograms per day. Vitamin E, this is an antioxidant That's Is it the most important thing? I don't think it's And it's going to make your creams I would say try it. The non vitamin creams first. Save yourself a ton of money Vitamin A, vitamin Vitamin E is important as an antioxidant protect works by performing skin protection. Hydration is found in a lot of creams, There's also vitamin B3, which is niacin. There's also vitamin B5, Vitamin C is really important which can lead to elasticity Vitamin C is very important 75 to 90 milligrams per day. It's an antioxidant, helps with your immune system, A lot of citrus from berries, peppers, And then there's zinc, Listen, unless you have nutrition, and must have a lot of health issues, all I like my favorite multivitamins for poor blood flow circulation, I won't get into it too much here. It's probably not the cause of your drink. I really want to emphasize layer, cracking, splitting, not getting enough moisture, That's the real cause. It's probably not a lack of vitamin The best creams for dry, cracked skin. I'm going to go over these in my guide The keys are to stay hydrated. Did in any time you sweat or take a bath, and get some thick cream on there, One really important thing skin, calluses, corns, A lot of this, if you were laying in bed, So component the biomechanical trauma if you had thick cushiony soft socks that were, well, well cushioned shoe that took pressure then you'd probably not have any friction Now, the trick is, if I take my heel if I'm rubbing like this, that's You want your foot to essentially So pretend that this is your foot. If you take your foot your heel is going to create Rub in, the skin will split. What you really want without doing any of this side to side. Shear stress. In most people, your toes don't point That leads to heel stress. That leads to splitting. That's where good shoes, Now, people with a lot of these foot problems, I'm also a big fan of shoes If you're retirement age, ortho They do a great job. I have discount codes and stuff Check out my guide on slippers, sandals They don't have to be ugly anymore. And also pre-made I have guides on all that stuff below. It makes a big difference if you think you're getting some biomechanical shear Here are the best home If you have thick, dry skin, thick flaky skin, My favorite way to do this is Epsom salts. Epsom salts are cheap. Epsom salts are basically salt, You can add some essential oils I don't really think you need to that, Everybody's watching TV, you're watching, you're watching And by the way, as a Michigander, what they're doing to this poor all this man's trying to do He's trying to drink his milk, and they're suspending him Don't give me too many thumbs down, I know my video ratings in a drop but I stand by it. And after you do your getting back after you do your soak, what happens is You want to exfoliate. You can use a foot file, their calluses, corns, fake toenails. You want to clean them up. If you're a diabetic, if you have health With a podiatrist like myself, also is homemade foot scrubs. There are peels. You can put sheets that are sticky, I link to those below. There's scrubs with sugar, salt, honey where you can gently massage It exfoliates And then when you exfoliate, now's the Usually the thicker the cream, the better. You're going to do lotions or more Creams This is one really important thing. I see patients buy these really expensive They have all the vitamins, the fragrances in them, What you want to do is buy a lower cost any irritations or anything like that, You will do great using more cream You don't have to go crazy. You want things like glycerin, shea You can put cotton socks over it This makes a big difference. Just make sure you don't put it and make sure you clip your toenails. Clean off that dry skin with exfoliation You don't need to do a soak necessarily You do this in the shower. There's also foot scrubbers in the shower. There's things and you use your feet where the bristles gently Like I said, peels, pumice stones. Just be safe. If you're a diabetic, don't cut or damage Easy ones that you can do. Coconut oil, coconuts pretty cheap. Just make sure you don't slip on the shower floor and hurt yourself But coconut oil is great. Petroleum It's very thick. But if you have open oil is don't And you can also use honey aloe vera. There's also a home I've seen a lot of good results, but combining some honey and some aloe They live on for 20 to 30 minutes, Don't do it between your toes. Other home Oatmeal can help soothe dry, blend oats into a fine powder, Soak your feet for 20 minutes You can steep green tea, black tea baths that can work as well. And the best time after a bath, after a shower, When you wake up in the morning, your skin will be so much stronger, You also want to wear socks You want to clean socks. It will avoid rubbing against your shoe. You want to get some good supportive some good slippers, Here's the really big secret. It takes 30 days for your skin to grow. It can take time for your cuts to heal. So a lot of people that I see, It can take more than 30 days, for someone in retirement age. With split Rate of closure is 50% of You heard correctly, and it takes 30 days for that skin At minimum, it's basically impossible. Heal that cut in less than 30 days Keep protecting it. If you do have an open wound, keep moisturizing it, keep soaking, And you want to do foot exercises, too, if they're not moving. I have a guide how to strengthen your feet All the exercise to do for home again. Is that the most practical thing? I don't think it's The others that are practical, too, Athlete's foot. Athlete's foot Very, very common. Check out my guide If your skin is getting everywhere check out my athlete's foot guide to take care of your toenail