Big startups are shutting down. According to Pitch Book more than 3000 private year. Of the startups raising money, 19% were funded rounds. 38% of VCs disappeared from dealmaking last workers at tech companies were laid off over US corporate bankruptcy filings closed out The year has been described as a mass extinction Hyperloop One - which was supposed to reinvent $450 million dollars. [clip1] "It's like a tube with an air hard." Bird the electric scooter rental company - which filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. It was the fastest startup to ever land a was worth two and a half billion dollars. It was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange cap of above $15 million dollars for 30 consecutive Who would have thought that renting scooters throw them in a canal on their way home) would Bird ran up more than $1.6bn in net losses Smile Direct Club - which was supposed to 3D-printed clear aligners direct to customer it went public in 2019 but the stock fell be unprofitable year after year. The company shut down last month $900 million The health tech startup Olive AI which reached 2020 driven by the need for automation in The company raised over 900 million dollars In 2022 the company began laying off staff The company was allegedly trying to raise Going out of business in 2023 was particularly Zume - the robot pizza delivery company funding, the majority of which came from SoftBank valuation, shut down this summer. The writing was on the wall for quite some In 2020 they announced that they were shutting were shifting their focus to food packaging, Who did they think would invest in that - investors should be obvious to everyone. [Clip] "Yo! I haven't got all day, what kinda pizza WeWork - who set out to revolutionize office I'm told didn't work very well, and free WeWork and its founder Adam Neumann were the model led by a charismatic founder could apply idea and attract venture capital funding to At its peak, WeWork was valued in private Softbank alone invested 16 billion dollars Masayoshi Son, SoftBank's founder, allegedly the shared office space company after Neumann With such a short tour, it's unlikely that Softbank - run by Masayoshi Son (Japan's investors in the last decade. They invested in all sorts of non tech companies to attain a sky-high valuation. According to Bloomberg, the SoftBank Vision last two years on startup investments. So, why are startups failing now, how much in some of these crazy business models and Before I get to that let me tell you about [Sponsored Section] data science and computer science interactively their user-friendly app. Brilliant has thousands of lessons from foundational networks and more with new lessons added monthly. They have a great range of Statistics and Brilliant is built for busy people - You tell app every day, the app then works out your your needs. I'm told it's six times more effective watching a lecture. Whether you're learning math, computer science interactive lessons help you master key concepts To try everything brilliant has to offer free or click on the link in the video description. The first two hundred of you to sign up will subscription. OK, so we have seen a very difficult period it comes in the wake of probably the best During the decade from 2011 to 2021 VC investment from 46 billion dollars in 2011 to $345 billion In 2022 when the federal reserve began hiking as investors lost their taste for unprofitable The flood of money into Venture Capital over main factors: Firstly - low interest rates that was expected to come in ten years' of earnings due to arrive the next day. This meant that that you could focus more Secondly; A recent history of profitable exits Whatsapp and Snap meant that investors were startups - hoping to repeat those successes. Venture capital went from being a small asset that had burned investors in the dot com bubble funds or private equity. The big names in VC became household names. During the lockdown period of the pandemic new technologies at a faster rate than ever that a sea change had occurred, and the future like Zoom and Peloton. People were using apps like Uber and door on Airbnb to get out of big cities now that While the prior wave of profitable high growth in the advertising space, or in businesses had untested business models - gig economy and might never flip to profitability - or route to a customer's home. As it turned out, a lot of these new business interest rates started going up and investors Investors over the period of the tech stock a lot of new investors were young and had and they expected that a lot of the new business pandemic, would continue on forever. There was a lot of optimism around technology retail investors who didn't really worry Startups do fail all the time, so what makes Well, many of these firms were worth billions recently. The investors in private markets are supposed but the qualification to invest in private more money to lose. A lot of the VC's possibly believed in many since gone bust, but a venture capital fund until the underlying business flips to profitability. They invest at the idea stage with the goal when the hype is at its peak. They did manage to unload a number of the valuations they were hoping for, and have of investments that they bought in to at peak Historically, by the time a company had reached hundreds of million dollars in funding) it If not already profitable, it was firmly on This was not necessarily the case for many The huge valuations many of these companies been more of a function of how much money since 2011 rather than necessarily reflecting models. So, how much money has been lost in these Well, according to Erin Griffith at The New had gone into the 3,200 venture-backed companies months of 2023. That number was based on data from PitchBook and they said that the data was not comprehensive an awful lot of companies go out of business That 27.2 billion dollar number excluded many public, like WeWork, or that found buyers invested at. Erin gives the example in her article of Hopin a start-up that raised more than $1.6 billion $7.6 billion dollars and recently sold its That is a big loss and a lot of money burned. The hype around AI that we have seen in the the tech space. Meta was up 178 percent last year due to a their core business. This covers up the 46.5 billion dollars lost into, for fear that they run into Mark Zuckerberg. AI was the only bright spot for startups last almost $18 billion dollars in VC funding. So, should we expect these startup shutdowns Well, there are job losses associated with As I mentioned in the intro, Bloomberg reports at tech companies were laid off last year, that is otherwise doing just fine. The labor market has been very tight, meaning find replacement jobs easily enough. As bad as the stories of these firms shutting that the Stock market is at all-time highs tech stocks like Meta, Microsoft and Nvidia Friday. According to The New York Times, some VC's companies to consider walking away from struggling away. Some of these companies have been able to One of the negative economic effects of startup becomes harder for founders with good business According to Pitchbook, the number of active defined as firms that made two or more deals first three quarters of 2023 compared to the data. That translates to 2,725 fewer firms making According to S&amp;P Global, US corporate bankruptcy level since 2010. The FT reports that corporate insolvencies level since the global financial crisis in grappled with high borrowing costs and slowing A new paper by Bruno Albuquerque and Roshan firms around the world - argues that some is a catch-up effect, and that many of the zombie companies that had been propped up measures. These were businesses that would likely have received, which has now mostly been withdrawn. The failure of bad business models is just system and is necessary for a healthy economy. The paper defines zombie firms as firms that manage to avoid immediate default, often thanks in light of misaligned incentives. Their research shows that the share of zombie grown over the last 20 years, initially growing After a downtick from 2016 to 2019, the share likely driven by the unprecedented policy available to businesses as pandemic relief. The paper finds an increase in zombification and private firms, with zombie firms accounting 2021, up from 6 percent in 2000 and for private 1997 to over 5 percent in 2020. The authors find that the presence of zombie and employment for healthy firms. They find that healthy firms who find themselves to access credit and that nonzombie firms firms tend to exit the market at a faster entry rates in those industries are significantly The paper argues that the policies that led delay an important creative destruction in have negative consequences for long-term productivity No one wants to see firms going out of business, exciting and innovative firms, but if a business rate environment, then its disappearance means of the best businesses. If you enjoyed today's video, you should WeWork next where we look at everything that at Softbank. Don't forget to check out our sponsor, Brilliant.org Have a great day and talk to you again soon,