Hi guys, thanks for tuning in another I'm Ian, and I have a really cool once-in-a-lifetime chance here to take a look at the only extant Pancor Jackhammer. So first off, I really want to who is the owner of this gun, fondling it and getting These guns are really well known and secondarily through some movies, both movies with the Jackhammer itself, and actually movies that have guns that Ironically, ... only 3 of these and they never found any sort of But they've come to be culturally fairly So a little bit of the background on this thing. John Anderson was the guy He ... ran a little one or two man And his experience with shotguns where he actually used And while he was doing so apparently loading the thing was time And so he started back in the '50s, in the Korean War, started thinking about ways you Well, he came back to the States, and ended up building this, the Pancor He did submit it to military trials, and that's This did reasonably well in trials, HP White It was able to go through 50,000 The problem was Anderson he didn't have a whole ton of funding. And the Department of Defence ... were deciding whether they wanted And while they were thinking about that So, they take their time, eventually And by that point Pancor has pretty and doesn't have any capital He got a lot of foreign interest in the gun but nobody who was interested enough to So the gun kind of fizzled out at that Ultimately, like I said, three of these were built, so this is the only surviving example. Anderson did build a bunch of other examples He was making a lot of working to figure out exactly how to So he made a couple of but ... the only surviving It's also interesting to note and because you've seen we tend to assume that this is the military In actual fact this gun is basically a It is not quite shaped the way that the It has a lot more material on it, especially things like the trigger guard On the guns that were sent to HP White they used a lot of stampings This was the very first one. When we start disassembling it you'll see where you take a look and go, Well, that's because the and he came up with better mechanisms, And this is the one that he kept for himself So with that in mind, some it's actually a very simple gun to use. And ... a lot of guns that look turn out to be kind of blase on a very creative and interesting mechanism, Anyway, we have three main Safety on the side I'll start with: We'll take a look at exactly how that This hook back here is So if you have a light strike on a cartridge, you can re-cock the ... striker So this is not a control What you mainly use is this handguard, That manually rotates the action and re-cocks One funny thing that I This ribbed forearm is kind you'll see that virtually every time It wasn't actually originally on the gun. ... Basically the first guy who when he decided to sell off the first guy who bought it And when he got the gun this forearm And he said unless you had your hand would slip on this thing So he took the rubber handguard from an MP5SD and screwed it onto the handguard So also a lot of our depictions and video games He rented it out to a couple He also basically rented out use of it to for comic books and for video games. And so they would come and that's where most ... of Alright, before I get deep into just the basic operating mechanism because there's only a The main thing we have this holds 10 rounds, ... Now the military trials for guns like this, what the military was looking for was They wanted buckshot, they wanted mini grenades, And some of the big companies that were able to partner with ammunition Anderson was basically just a little so he had no way to make Instead he designed this gun which is the buckshot that So the way this works is actually reminiscent When the gun cycles there's a pin that I can do that manually by racking the forend, and you can see that the drum rotates. The way this works is on the forward stroke on the rearward stroke it moves So there's a peg here that's and it comes forward to here. And then because you're still pulling and then on the rearward Because of the geometry of these points, So that's also one of the sketchy is that these camming grooves had to be very And that's one of the more So, let's move on to some disassembly. I mentioned before that ... what we need to do not ... even a field trials level of gun. So as we go through you'll see basically held together Which is the sort of thing you obviously not something that So I'm going to start by So there's our rear cover, just Then I can take off the top cover. This just lifts up ... and out. We have a big metal hook at the front. That connects to this This does also have our sights on it, they You're firing buckshot, ... you're not looking for Alright, next up, let's This is rotated 90 degrees, and it comes off. And there's a big recoil spring on the So it turns out the Jackhammer gas-operated blow forward, So this big thing is A few vents maybe hold it down, and then you have a surface in the back Then to get the barrel out, I just rotate it. OK, so the barrel comes out pretty and it just pulls out the Now the way this gun works is, You can see we have a gas seal And then inside the barrel you can actually locate it by the screws there is a block inside there. If I shine a flashlight there, you can The barrel has two gas ports So one drill straight through. And then you have a seal here, and you have When this is assembled you have this little When you fire gas comes through the ports, Now, when we look at the magazine, rebated mouths on the chambers, and ... the end of the barrel actually fits When your shot shell fires, the shot and then the end of the shell expands And that forms more or less a gas seal. Then when the gas ports do their pulls off the end of the shell, and then This will make more sense when we pull the So the next step in our disassembly, so that we can pull out this pin, so I mentioned this was a tool-room prototype, This is actually what you Obviously not a militarily effective method, given that it requires taking The two guns that were sent to actually had a different ... By that point Anderson had perfected a But again, this was the tool-room This is the centre axis pin for the magazine, To clear the magazine out, I now have And now I can pull out our 10 round drum. So here we have the back end of the drum, At the front end you can see that the And what happens is this fits into the drum like that. And our shot shell, when it fires, gives This is actually in concept fairly Then when you're firing, the gas ports fill And then the drum rotates one position, until the recoil spring on the barrel forces Alright, at this point I want and talk about something that is commonly That is what was called the &quot;bear trap&quot;. This was this gun would come with a into an ad-hoc landmine. ... So none of these bear traps but there were plastic models of them made. Again, just like the models of the there were plastic models of this bear trap And I've talked to some folks who And the plastic models with a regular So the idea is actually kind of straightforward. and then you have a second part There was a special pressure rim that came (or around the outside, I'm And the bottom plate and this top piece had basically a ratcheting sort So that when you stepped on the top and you had 10 firing pins on the bottom plate. And they would fire all 10 or however many you happen So, a very neat and very creative idea. But again, none of them were actually produced Alright, getting the rest of the the firing pin and the pretty much requires me to So, we will start with these two side plates. These are actually purely decorative to We got that, now ... the forend here is Got a pair of flats in this operating rod, and this forend is held on by these two Next up, I need to take the barrel jacket off. Leave that on for the moment. I also This actually holds in the firing pin So we'll pull this off. That's the end cap, that holds the firing pin Now. Alright, and here is our firing pin assembly. So the sear is right up here at the top, And then the firing pin and you have two pieces Take a look at this now, we'll We have to take the grip The grip assembly is held on by and a flat-head screw that's probably Alright, now I have pretty much So we can take out the grip assembly, OK, we finally got pretty much I've got the screws out of here. Now, in order to take the shroud off the I'm going to pull it forward ... to Now we can separate the receiver Which again, you can see it has that And we have our operating rod So in looking at exactly how we're going to start with This is very squared off, frankly But a lot of that is because, again, So the final production guns and a lot less material Our selector lever That pin locks into the front of the assembly, Once I rotate that pin up and out of the You can see our sear down here. That pushes up when I pull the trigger. And when I put it onto full-auto, you can see there's a In full-auto I can't pull When I set it to semi, now that cutout allows And when it goes all the way back it and that's why you hear it snapping. When it's in full-auto I simply so it fires until I release the trigger. At any rate, what's happening here is these They are pushing upward into Then that is coming out here to the front. When I push these in, this That wedge pushes this spring down. And then this whole bolt is because it's locked up So when this goes down and falls out of And inertia pushes the firing pin forward That complicated enough for you? It's actually not nearly as complex as it sounds. If I mock this back up with we can show you exactly how it works. Now while all of this is going on, And this little peg on it is So this peg is running inside That's what operates the feed mechanism. Alright, now I've put some so I can demonstrate So you remember we have That is physically linked to the You install the barrel through the So when the barrel moves Now if we look at the magazine, you can see that it operates So when the gun is in the sear here is caught in the operating When I pull the trigger, pushes down on the You can see it moving right there. When I pull the trigger all the way, which allows the firing pin ... spring to It hits a primer, fires the cartridge. Then, because the op-rod is directly connected When it goes forward it rotates or rather when it goes forward it When it comes back, it rotates the The spring-loaded sear And then as the op-rod comes the rest of the way And the thing is ready to fire again. Alright guys, there's your disassembly and I hope you guys enjoyed the video. I want to for being so kind as to let me And also the guys at Movie Gun Services, and they're the ones who offered So definitely couldn't have done it without them. And I also certainly couldn't have very generously stepped up and to make it possible for me So thank you very much to all of you and hopefully you guys enjoy the video. Now, a couple of other things I want to We did put this guy on a scale, Again I want to reiterate that and it uses a lot of rather heavy cast parts. The guns that went to HP White for testing, and the guns that would have for commercial and military purposes This upper assembly, for on the HP White guns that was plastic. The trigger assembly frame would have instead of cast, it would have Anyway, the HP White guns ... they were able to Rate of fire on this was about 240 ... You kind of have to have a slow rate of fire As an interesting comparison: almost exactly what the So if you listen to one of those firing, you'll get I also want to point out that on the or at least as of when I'm filming this, the exploded view they have is directly and it does not quite accurately represent Especially the magazine different in the patent drawing than it is here. And there are a couple of So keep that in mind if you're using You should instead use Well, I hope you guys enjoyed watching the video, have some basis of reality now when you take Now you actually know how they work. Thanks for watching.