Tim. This Super, super lucky for you. So it's, it's, lucky for you. Lucky for you. I'm glad you're here. As a young medic, hazard a guess But your junior doctor diet You, you know, just snatching sandwiches and all the rest of it. What do you think's, even today, people are still consuming every day, particularly for, like, leading them to put them away And and they're in the brains. I think that plenty of foods that we've been fooled by. Yeah. Breakfast is a great example because virtually every breakfast cereal. Has all kinds of health All kinds of added vitamins and things you don't need. And it doesn't tell you that it's made. It's fake virtually none of the original nutrients So, you know, and that also goes for most of the movies and things that I used to think were quite helpful Rice Krispies Yeah, it was grown ups. I said, oh, special K. You know, some more expensive movies. Yeah. When you actually look at them, accessible carbs. That will give you a sugar spike. And not much in the way of fibre. Yeah. Nothing like that makes a dent on the 30g So that was some of the cereals that you know the biggest thing in the UK. Did the kids get. Well then you get into this habit Yeah. Then I think you've got So I was always told porridge was healthy. My mum would say to me Quaker Oats or something like this, and you know, when I was researching the book, That was a huge difference and that you can make instant. Means that those sugars are accessible instantly. And so that was just as quick as it is to make that sugars that come out into your body Whereas if you folded doing slow cooking that's going to be a high fibre low sugar So huge differences. And most people Yeah. The other one I noticed it's pretty lowers your cholesterol They're not good for you. So and then of course orange juice which beloved by myself Yeah. I gave it to my kids gallons of, you know, it tastes so good. It is amazingly healthy. Why? Vitamin C is through the roof. Tastic. But, you know, it has the same effect You think you can in the kids So I think that then you got, you know, prosecco, toast and marmalade, which most of the breads people are eating in this country, high in carbs and lower. They've got some fibre. So I don't want to completely But we attempt to buy anything Oh, look, it's brown bread. I'm. I'm superior to those people. Anything like that. But actually, or something people suck it into that. So very few breads have a decent fibre ratio. Contraction of sugar in that. So I think that's the you know that's And I think the other thing that I used to regularly eat was the of meal deal. As most doctors would do nowadays, I. Mean I used to love a meal. Deal Yeah. Used to go for whatever. Yeah. And I suppose now shops in them, Yeah. Getting this meal deal with what I thought Again made in a factory. Mass produced. And actually if you look this sort of fake brown bread really high in sugar and low in fibre, but the ingredients in the mayonnaise and the sauce, whether it's mango or not, is prawn mayonnaise. That is super healthy. Good grain. Or it's tuna and sweet corn. You know, I was always say, oh, And, you know, when I started playing I was actually horrified. I had that with my orange juice Yeah. And my blood sugar went up to 11. Gosh. You know, I mean unbelievable. Yeah. So not surprising after that fake sugar. So, you know, you know, above average intelligence And you still see plenty of people and yet medics And I think this is right. We're talking to, you know, perhaps 5 or 10% of the population, but ten, 90% perhaps still got no clue. Is making them tired. Making them. Yeah. Giving them brain. So making them hungry. Putting on weight Yeah. This is where the real motivation for me to as you talk about this their all different ways of eating And, you know, that was we're finally admitting the NHS is broken Finally, we've got a government I despite a lot of that is because we've not been talking about prevention And if you basically for people with foods that are poisoning you have many more health problems So the pressure on all services being terrible We just need to start rethinking this because it's costing us estimated a year, lost to food companies And that's you know that's the cost of the NHS. Expenditure. Yeah. What we're spending on food. Oh yes. So if we change our food from the worst habits to the best, we can reduce the burden of all these diseases ranging by about 70 to 80%. So huge potential danger and changing the food environment you eat. Were you referring to the report that year just came out today. And one of the stark things was the degree of investment even allowing for Covid year on year, a failing system, And I think the lack of focus on Part of the issue, what you just described there of those little shops with the meal deals, high street. And even when people move from becoming they still struggle to make the changes. You know, there's a lot of, you know, my colleagues who still work in Well, there's no other option How do you think we get to those people who are actually problem aware, across the population, but at least and getting them to vote with, Was difficult because people are busy and, you know, if you're surrounded by these sort of fast food outlets, offer you a nice sandwich, Yeah. And there's no healthy alternative You can see why people do that. So, you know, we've got to start And the easiest thing for a government you know, the government You've got a have rules to say You have to have some certain levels of non ultra processed food. We should be bringing that down Because most of the staff in the NHS are less healthy because they are And as you say it's not always their fault and they have got nowhere else to go. In other countries Australia, Belgium, Spain even bring that their food themselves much more than they do in this country Yeah, you do that and they bring a Tupperware, And and so that's a sort of mentality While there's still terrible food Yeah. I'd love us to have proper solid bars in, in hospitals But you can imagine that's not going to happen anytime soon, propping up those hospitals, giving them. Yeah. You know, they would otherwise So that's what we have to sort of But I think if you start here of the patients for example, Yeah you do a good job. Yeah. But the vast majority don't say you know, let's get waste street into say let's have a across the NHS, you know, no more than 10% ultra Right. And training. Yeah yeah, yeah. After all, you know, 60%. Yeah. It's absolutely crazy. And look after your staff. And I think it's changed the mentality. It's changing the mindset. It's realising that meal, you do that on a regular basis. You know, you'll be gaining a kilo. Yeah. And you will feel more times, or unwell. And there is there's a solution in that is preparing your meals yourself And and employers helping. Yeah. Because they'll have better stuff. Yeah. More energetic. More motivated. It makes absolute sense from everyone. Has many health problems and it's getting that message across. Yeah. The crisis type scenario where every doctor I know is just, you know, feels so under pressure. It's not the thing And that's why I'm, I'm a fan of what's actually going on when you consume Specifically talking and getting that real time I guess when I started doing some work and trying to revamp is, like you said, so much money goes into NHS hospitals from these outlets that are essentially selling fast food, The Greggs, It's almost like, you know, a caricature We have the same people, the same outlets, And it's also kind of what they demand That's a lot of the pushback I guess my question is, now, you know, of your old breakfast of, you know, your marmalade and juice and special K? I mean, it sounds just like my, What what do you have for You know, your blood glucose, metabolic issues Just a quick one. If you're enjoying this kind of content, you will love our free It goes into depth and we talk about the nutritional medicine and the culinary uses of an ingredient You can get access to the free newsletter Well, some days, like today, Okay. I call the Italian breakfast, Yeah. Which, apparently doesn't count for fasting, Does it not? Does it? It was a controversy around that. Some controversy and yes, it's So, yeah. I'm a big fan of saying Yeah. Because it's not really stimulation at all and allows you, you know, to not feel like you're punishing as sure. So there's all the time about, you know, skip breakfast or have it later on. So, I mean, I'm at home. I'm home, and I probably have my breakfast Yeah. And my go to breakfast is changed to the my full fat yoghurt 5050 with no caffeine. Okay. And, whichever berries I've got or fruit if I haven't got some frozen berries up. Freezer and not in the seed mix. Got really nice. Not granola in the, in the recipe book I actually love it. Or if it is from somewhere else and sprinkle that on. Making sure that at breakfast without. Yeah. It's quite nice to skip it on July. It is a really good opportunity into your diet Yeah. Yeah. When you're at home you've got it always. You don't always, you don't always know where you're going So that's what I did it. And I found it. You know, I filled out much more. And I'm not super hungry at lunchtime now. I don't have that. I used to have these of 1030 11 from dips. Go and have a, I go out with chocolate. Yeah. I've got to have a Twix. So you know I mean. And that was because you know my coffee breakfast had given me this spike And then I was obviously looking for yet to get it back there again So really high fat breakfast smoothie Really. Certainly. Yeah. And I could never go back and I occasionally in hotels and there got You know. And you might have a, some muesli and a and have a sip of orange juice and. Yeah, you know, it's It's weird when you, when you, when you go and you see what's on offer breakfast, croissant, jam, toast, And you see people, just going for it as you would do But now through the lens of how intuitive you are about what's down the line, you completely change And so avoid like, I can't think of the last time you know, I mean, I've had croissants, because I just know how crap I'm What do you what do you make of this that glucose spikes are, responsible for the dips in the lows? And you know how much of a fuss who are as respected, are saying, It's not all about the blood glucose. We shouldn't we shouldn't be obsessing What what do you what do you make of that? I think I'm in the middle ground. I mean, you know, through the studies You know, blood sugar has, in fact. But we know that blood fats have a bigger effect on the inflammation. And, we also know that feeding your gut microbiome also has an important fact has, you know, time restricted eating. So I think holistic. But also we found a ten fold difference So some people You know some people. Have a croissant and it doesn't. My wife is one of them. She does have some. She doesn't really get a sugar. Yeah. And I get a massive one. So you know we shouldn't be demonising sugar And we also shouldn't. Yeah. Delicious foods like what's on your mind Yeah. Hotel breakfast. I'm not. Sure. Yes. They don't have anything else, but, Not. It doesn't mean that you have it So yeah we mustn't fall into the trap Well it's only about glucose. And it's all about this balance in the probably if you've got your, you got sorted out that you can tolerate. The occasional burst when you were in this really bad state Yeah. Be aware of it. But it's not the, it's And I think everything in science, in medicine Sure. Yeah. So someone comes in. Oh yes. You know it's all about gluten or it's all about lectins or it's all about cancer. No, it never is. So it's a factor. But we shouldn't be absolutely obsessed And you know there are some, there will be some good foods GI effects and. So I'm sorry we don't school very well because it's, it's a beetroot. All right. Because it's, you know, it's quite sugary. Yeah. I mean, you, you became, don't you? That's how you. Sugar. Sure. Yeah. But we know that it's Yeah. It's good for blood vessels. It's more potent than in reducing blood pressure. You know, it's being used in. Mental dysfunction. You know, some other property, isn't it? That and it's got lots of polyphenols. Obviously from its colour. So if you already went on the sugar okay I could never have beetroot. Yeah. And you'd be missing out a lot. So that's, that's some good examples rigid and reductionist. Yes. That's why I want to learn more and all the different structures it's complicated and we can all just have Yeah, exactly. I guess, you know, using the same analogy who are lucky in the sense It doesn't mean that they can just eat they want, because eventually it's It will, you know, They won't feed their microbiota. So overall, it's We know that. Yeah. Because they won't be getting if you only focussed on the sugar. Yeah. Totally neutral. You'd say like you. What's the reason. It's not good for you. Yes. It won't make them feel bad. That long term that they're going But it, it just means picky. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's just you know this idea, we just have this ten fold Amazing fact. Yeah. Even identical twins should make us a bit circumspect Yeah. I think with a GI score about this. Yeah. Everything in context, you know. That that's really important. This ten fold difference I know in biology nothing's certain. But if you could hazard a guess is what is having the biggest impact Is it come down Is it or the sort of like the speed Where would you place your chips What's having the biggest impact? So when we did try to break it down, there were multiple factors that had small effects. Genes were still important. Okay. But they 18 to 20% of the differences. Okay. The next biggest was microbiome. Then it was the sort of meal composition itself. So. Whether the proteins and fats in there, So you sleep. Okay. And whether you exercise Yeah. It would take you a ton of experiments So I don't think it's a one factor And it can vary a little bit Again if you had a different sleep or. Yeah we have to sometimes Different. You know something or but you know Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We don't know. Some people might. There's a microbiome improves their mind. That's responses You know that. Don't really understand Yeah. You mentioned lectins. I could ask you about lectins. A lot of people ask me about actions And I have to keep on giving the same answer again and again this is still around. Oh, it's still around in a big way, I get a lot of messages about this, You know, What are you I know. I don't really want to be discussing it, on coming up again and again. Well, it's quite simple. You know, any sort of influence that one chemical in some foods or plants has a theoretical negative effect Sure. Some people got brilliant job this compound because it, Because in theory, it might stop you absorbing In reality, there is an effect. It's pretty trivial compared And now when everyone should be asking as well show is the randomised that shows that people who cut out eating relaxing foods, healthier. Yeah. And it doesn't matter whether it's lectin, whether it's, some, possibly carcinogen or whatever, You know, either There's no benefit of, There's plenty of studies like beans and pulses have reduced disease Yeah. These are just, to make a reputation because, you know, they're not scientists. Pick on something and, well, do the proper science. Yeah. Come back and talk about it's not to my Yeah. I, I to get angry about it Yeah. Instead it's based on fact that. And people just need to say okay shows the trials in humans nine months. You know if it all stacks up. Yeah. Epidemiologist backs out and may be supported by, the data. Yeah. Then you want to make sure. Yeah. You know, like we have Yeah. So conclusive. There we go. Pretty much overwhelming evidence from many sources to show But Yeah. We need to stop this. So. In a way because it's a bit like the, you know, the Trotskyists This when you know, fascists take, Yeah. I do wish that Really? Yeah. Junk food and fake food. Yeah. And stop attacking. You know, anyone who's trying to promote Yeah. It's almost like if you were that the food industry that actually leads people to attention, About me, I've heard. Or, you know, I've heard. And so the your attention goes there it should be, what is the Yeah. How much of it is ultra processed? And how can we move you from, processed and ultimately, Quite possible. These people are, sponsored by food Yeah. It's interesting that, If you look at the US records of what it was 20 years ago, they promoted all these influencers if only children in schools you wouldn't have an obese. That was, you know, distract from the fact that the eating, all the drinking, and that's it exercise isn't going to help children, who are drinking And that was a brilliant, distracting device So it's quite possible are coming from the food industry. She might have no interest because it's very low, They much rather create some fake food. Yeah. So I think that's a good point. We should look at this funding Yeah. You know who's paying for that publicity in these other things. Yeah. I'm highly suspicious of lots of attacks or alternate theories. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. They might send a book with You have books to sell this theory. Yeah, yeah. I mean, it is pretty remarkable. And I guess, like you know, you're in the public eye You're probably used to getting attacks I mean, how do you deal with that? I mean, obviously it's quite unnerving It's more uncomfortable for my family. Sure. Yeah. When I get nasty tweets or, so, you know, I generally mute people that I don't want, so I don't see them or, you know, I tend to look lesser, Twitter Yeah. But even you get some comments. I realise that some of them Some are disgruntled academics. That have made it their career And and so and have their own PR companies now pay for the food industry. Particularly Because they, they now see Zoe Therefore the reason the target. I did something like this is, you know, I had a tweet Oh, yeah. I said I need to have Okay. It's complete madness. And, you know, vitamin D. Supplementation, you know, and I said previously And 3 million people or whatever. And everybody related to me, these influencers who are peddling sunscreens to young women year round. Tick tock. Okay. So and you know, celebrities weighing in and, Jane Ryan, Had, Wow. What's his name? The, Gynaecology doctor read the books. I don't know. I, I try to spend as little time as I can Loads of random people. Yeah. You know, I've been studying bits of data. Yeah, yeah. My wife is a melanoma expert. And everything I said I and then the newspapers reported, the suncream industry are paying No evidence that induces ageing. Which is what I said. There's no evidence. Evidence to reduce ageing. Wow. And eventually the British society Cannot say that he's actually right. You know, why did you tell young women living in England in the winter. To wear sunscreen. SPF 30? As an extra layer on their skin all year round wearing SPF 30 in the country, And then being told they have to take Yeah. Yeah. This is all paid for by the, So that's, this is a other example of how we're influenced And how they can that they have posters My skin charities. As if it's coming You know the food industry doing the same British Nutrition Foundation in tons of quasi seemingly charitable organisations We're just we just need to wake up. Yeah. Realise that everything we're being Advice aside for how uncomfortable it is, obviously for your family How do you ground yourself the official body, How do you ground yourself from newspapers Like, well, I guess I've got quite a thick skin and I think I had reacted Sure. I didn't have that experience 900 papers, and if I didn't feel Always these subjects. So it doesn't worry me too much I know. You know, in that case, I also had a lot of experts I said I certainly. Should have asked you. So you know, I was in the thing Gotcha. Yeah. So I realise it's part of the job Yeah. I have to rattle the cage of that. And if I'm going to rattle the cage, people attacking you. Yeah. But you know, most people I meet, you know, will come up and shake my hand Doing a great job. Yeah. Makes me carry on. Yeah. But I think I can see why, it would totally intimidate some younger. My younger self wouldn't be doing this. As soon as, the heat got too much Yeah. Yeah. Well that's good to know. Let's talk about the book Because your book is really taking things out your door, even though What do you think people need to start I can almost hear the answer But perhaps with specific reference to ingredients that you're really big fans of. Right. Yeah. Well, you know, this book came out of, it's a theoretical book, food for life. Yeah. The food and it was discussing the evidence for the these ingredients that we don't need. That have these amazing properties. And it's, it's rather abstract. So it's really good just to take those abstract views and say This is 100 examples. Recipes that have. Lots of different plants in it. Lots of polyphenols in that. Also amazing flavours with interesting swaps that you might know. So it's it's often about swapping swapping white rice Yeah. You know, at about the weeks, you know, they barley do a good job. So much more. And actually first, and so recipes and shapes Yeah. Using those alternate grains High in fibre. As alternatives. And so I'm saying well actually Okay. Yeah. Why many people think it is. It's a bit brown bread. You know, it's not a sort of. Oh it must be. Yeah. I think the other, there's quite a few recipes today I'm a big fan of mushrooms, D, so I've been sunbathing. You know, I don't say, you know, as if you're trying Fantastic alternative. Mommy flavoured. Then as we're going to be chatting soon, I think in a couple of weeks Fortnum? I think so, anyway. Yeah. The fungi panel? Yeah, the fun panel. So. I mean, we don't eat enough mushrooms. Yeah. I'm cooking them. Yeah. So? So easy to grow as well. That delicious. There's so many varieties and. Yeah, they're incredibly good Different structure. And so it's quite likely that you know for all those nutrients I think we should be eating much more mushroom dishes. Yeah. During the week. Did you say they're not plants. They're not. Let's, let's double click on that. How are they? How are they not plants? So actually genetically, that closer to, animals. That's It's. Yes. You know, people think that don't Well yeah. But I think we've got to treat them And they are absolutely incredible. Species that will survive. And you know they have these, these connections on the ground that they estimate, the world and, and really responsible for soil health of the soil as well. So you need this mix of the microbes. And so you've got all these networks communicating with each other. So I know that a great respect for. Yeah. And I think we're starting to see how that might benefit people. Cancer chemotherapy. Adjuvant therapies. Some of these mushroom teas, which I thought were rubbish But some of evidence So you need to really get much more And these can be Yeah. The Chinese have been. Using for ages. It's now starting to trials and particularly cancer for cancer immune system. That was really important. But yeah I love the taste. And you know, if you're stick something else in it. But, you know, can't go far wrong. And I think it's what you need to do with the lots of lentils Pulses. And this whole concept high protein low chance with peas and I use you know So and they're incredibly cheap. So that's we talked about this in France you in your freezer bag of frozen peas. There's some great recipes in there. Yeah. Dispose of frozen peas, Pretty easy to do. And you get that I find the meals so, more and more lentils, I think what I learned, there's some writing this and testing you can do just by keeping good items Yeah. And, you know, Yeah. If you've got lots of cans of things. Lentils, chickpeas and grains. Count of tomatoes or whatever. You know, the incredible dishes. That to them I can't be bothered to cook and I need to go to the shops. And then you want to take a while, you go out and you say regret it. So hopefully people will read this that we've got a list in here. Also the Zoe Larder. And this will just make you think more about the getting these things and realising depending on the supermarket sensible. And you know people trying to eat less meat plant based broccoli. We thought about having Yeah. But in the end, you know, we actually, you know, everyone knows how to fry steak or, chicken or if they want to add it to this, the whole point is these, Converting people from having native plants to plants and the 100 recipes. Anyway, the plants are a big deal. And many, have super mommy taste so that you think. Meat might flavours. I think this is, this is what you need I think many people listening would say well and what I did when I switched, I, you know, So I was forced to, it only lasted six weeks. I don't know. I think, you know, even if it's only two weeks, Try these dishes. That will tell you that you you don't have to get fully vegetarian, you know what you're missing. Yeah. If you're you're sticking a big sock Peas or carrots around every day. Yeah. That's missing that diversity And, spices. And, it just makes it so much easier. Yeah. I think what you mentioned about the flavour is really important there like miso, soy, mushrooms, tomatoes, even, they do have these natural mommy flavours sort of, what you can say, It is a plant based book. I believe in Tati. There's no cheese or nothing like that. Well, plant based, no, there is cheese. Oh, there's some cheese. Okay. You didn't choose. An option, you know. To. Yeah, for a. Vegan to just swap it out. So, you know, you. Gotcha. Tofu. It is. But, there were some lovely other swaps instead of questionable. Sauce. Yeah. I just love on and white beans. We stock swap was standard stock Q Which although it's in small amounts is theoretically So miso paste. And they say it is fantastic fermented soy and like naturally So hopefully that will improve miso sales around the country. But also there's many people think that putting it in is actually even more Yeah. It's not for you. Yeah. So lots of little swaps like this people take as habits long term. Yeah. That's what they're all that she would recommend rapid meals. And yet you've been into this for a while. But look how easy it is to make these basic dishes. Once you, once you get into it. Yeah. Just because for the people that say Stock up your lard, And then once you've gotten it it's, it's no time. Yeah. It takes just a bit of practice. And I think the inspiration you've got in Even my wife today struggles to fathom how I make dishes from pretty much I'm just looking at the store cupboard tomato puree, lentils that can be cooked within 20 minutes, that, It's sort of encouraging people to think rather than just relying On the subject of of meat and fish, And how do you think about sort of dose So I had about 7 or 8 years without eating meat. I did eat fish occasionally. Go I was struggling with B12 deficiency, low levels in my life. Anyway. So I thought, you know, I'm, I'm sick of. I don't want to go. Sure. Yeah. So I'll start eating maybe once or twice a month. And I've always been dairy, nuts excessively. But. But I drink milk. And, I find that that helps. I quite enjoyed having me time usually with my wife's steak house. Sure. It's about the same portions I used to. You know I do enjoy tasting things I found it important that if I was writing wasn't seems too extreme. So I could talk to people about it, about cooking later without having some religious fervour about it. Because I'd be very happy. It tends to fly, but you know, at least, you know, once a week And I think you ought to be thinking more. And I sometimes. Yeah. It's easier They have to give up things. Yeah. General, my view and the view exactly Nothing should be completely Sure. There's always an event Okay, this is the time for this. You know, See what it tastes like. You know, it's like this. I think you should still be able Yeah. This idea of time meat. So when I do eat meat Sure. You know, kind of mincemeat. You get, in the UK. Cheaper. Just knowing that I actually prefer, But you know really good. The Kobe beef occasionally or you can would have venison just to savour it I still wouldn't enjoy that Yeah. Occasionally fish I eat. Not as much as I used to because, you know, I mean, it benefits eating fish a bit over quite. And, there's a real sustainable fish. Yeah. So I get more for the muscles and clams. And I also really enjoy in that to be healthy for. When you think about meat and fish with the exception of protein Do you think there are and fish in one store, a couple of times a month? We've done some studies comparing omnivores, vegetarians and vegans and, 30,000 people across the US. In the UK. And I should be say that on average, vegetarians and vegans But that is the healthiest people are where people at a lot of plants and a few, had occasional meat and fish. Gotcha. The diver well I say and greater number species, a greater ratio of good dogs to. Okay. So it's possible. So you will have less species in that gut than normally. And I have a feeling of that will be a slight advantage. So this might be the sweet spot. Yeah. You know evolution is intended for us is to have the occasional But encourages other microbes to survive To that good a pure waste strictly. Gotcha. But it's a new one. Yeah. Let's not forget this tends to be quite a way healthier than the average. Yeah. And there might be this little type So. Yeah. Might be in that, in that niche This is the first big study of its kind. But I think we don't know. Well those particular microbes that you get in need to exist versus vegans how beneficial they are. And that's a it's more theoretical. Yeah. It's funny with your wife That's literally because my wife's pregnant we generally eat mainly plants with a bit of fish, And that's literally But my I think my gut microbes aren't because I feel heavy the next day a little bit of bloating and, haven't adapted quick enough A bit of a shock. Yeah. So what's this guy doing? He told us to go. Yeah. That's really, an interesting message you make you buy much less of it. Yeah. And, Yeah. And that's funny because you and it it's and noodles, people will say, oh, I can't, They give me bloating. Exactly. I'm constipation, I feel terrible. Well, you need to smooth out your microbes those pulses and, I think it works in the things you're not used to meeting you know might cause you some problems if you don't do it gradually We definitely never thought Yeah. I was just your acid that breaks it down the microbes. Thank you. Yeah, it's a huge army. They're battling down With regards to your B12, that you're able to manage with food now, Yeah, I do check it. So once a year. But I can manage it with. Oh, it's great to. Work out once a year Yeah, I. I've got high blood pressure. So it's some evidence that low B12 has a negative impact on Perhaps more fussy than most people. Yeah. Yeah. As we should be. You know like even with my own I feel I have a lower threshold for an, And I think everyone's different. I think you know that that's, that stands. That's a good testament to that. You mentioned dairy, before, with the exception of cheese what about regular dairy their coffee in a cereal as a as a drink. What are you Very interesting. I mean, I think there's no reason for adults to drink that, you know? You think about, well, cows breast milk. And while these are milk, breast milk. Very good for children, designed for rapid growth, etc.. All the studies suggest that. You have a lot of milk, and we've got. Yeah. It doesn't make you healthier. It does make you grow faster. And so you said actually That actually more fragile. So we now all the evidence you know shows that milk is not protected Okay. I used to tell my patients You know tell you what vegans might say. Well, you need to do something about this No it will unless they've got all the vitamin So this myth that milk and calcium But now is predisposing like this epidemiology and terms. So we shouldn't be seeing it as a health drink. I think we shouldn't demonise it either. Okay. And so having you know, and milk in your coffee, it's Unless you're lactose intolerant or. So but I don't think we should be Okay. Well we used to. Yeah. Thinking it's going to be good for me you know that this is and for some people that may and it's But when you fermented that's there or you know, And so there's probably more that make it good rather than. Proteins in. So do you think it would be of probiotics something to do with, saturated fats or the proteins and how they coagulate So what would, I guess another way kefir made from milk would you have the same benefits It's hard to answer that. I mean, because you get different microbes Okay. Nice to work out. Yeah. Microbes that grow in coconut diseases. Say it's the microbes. If, milk to coconut. But I suspect that the main effect is, Love in the. Substrate. Okay. So that that's, that's my hunch. So but it means that some of the ones growing in coconuts, Yeah. And they're all, For example. Fruit too, because, they have a lot of the same benefits as the milk. In those types of studies, non-dairy ones of the world's population This is And without fermentation breaks And so it's still some people for sure. To me, I think they're seeing more of the, the norm milk products. You know, and increasingly for the planet, you got non, you know, products, fermented foods, We shouldn't be encouraging. Cows to provide us with my breast milk. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Coffee. We mentioned coffee a couple of times. Now we're both just out our coffees Clearly, you're you're a coffee drinker What do we know now about since you started writing your books? Well, I mean, some of it. My first, write my first paper on coffee. Actually, about 1991. Wow. Well, before you. Yeah. Yeah. Saying that it caused cancer pain. Okay. I spent the rest of my career Yeah. Mistake. Gotcha. I went into the Lancet, so I. My career. Well. My early career as I was a student. Yeah. So coffee's gone through the cycles of. It's a demon drink. Like it's a demon that just came back. Yeah. Typical day, you know, headlong. Sure. Yeah. It it causes cancer. It kills cancer. At the moment, all the evidence suggests that apart don't get on with it, reduced heart disease by about 20 to 30%. If you take two, three cups a day. Okay. And it looks like up to five cups Okay. You used to really worry But that's not been It's because it's a high fibre high polyphenol drink that has properties that really understand what they offer because the same holds today and also seems to be helpful So it's not the caffeine that's in the engine. Okay. So this is good news for people can tolerate the taste High quality decaf and get some benefits. So yeah I, I think I recommend everyone It isn't fermented. Yeah. Just say it's, it's one of the, you know, that's a weak Yeah. And then we've got that. You know, as a plant health. Rather than this evil, cancer You know, I used to think it was. And really fascinating. We've got a, paper coming out. Showing that there's one microbe that we've all got in this country. Promotion of Baxter. Lewis and a Baxter. Is the fanciest microbe, in Christendom. Because it only, eats coffee. Relieves. And. Because there's so many coffee drinkers and coffee And when you dose in coffee, it drops down to the minimal levels, It's hanging around in some sort and it's in the air. Because if you live with coffee drinkers, drink, or, you know, exchanging saliva. You know, after a few babies but eventually they will get this microbe drink coffee. And then. Wow. And it's is that between, a food substance Right. It's a lovely story. And, and essentially, in normally coffee drinking countries So it it's it's that we've, we've brought on about seaweed eating microbes in Japan, And but it gives us the idea that once this is based on 35, 200,000 people, microbe associations like this and say, And so I think it's like the first of many that is that was quite This fancy coffee. That's so funny. And then it's just been there Yeah. How does it get into humans? All these kind of weird stories about the gut microbes and, you know, this Yeah. And could this be. And could the microbes be producing these chemicals and help us reduce inflammation and fight porpoises? My gosh. You know, Yeah. And just in a Yeah, absolutely. And I guess that's the sort of like thread food is medicine is something that you've you've really become a proponent I think when I started, certainly that was no one was really talking but but now it's really galvanising, That these sort. Yeah. Yeah. I'll be honest, you know, genuinely said that. Yeah. Yeah. So some states, snake oil, you know, and, now, yeah, that's me saying exactly that. It is a nice confirmation that I'm not using it. Everyone needs to realise that by understanding how it works, from the sort of marketing style Really thinking about, you know, your own body and, and how it's ridiculous to single out one, get obsessed with it. Think about the thousands of chemicals your body is, is a pharmacy that, that you need to feed And, that way you people who take you down, you know, blind alleys This is the only. Yeah. Cause of this disease. This is the reason you got this. This is, you know, you can never eat this. And you system Yeah. We've really talked about those six concepts in your, And we talked about the diversity, etc.. Pivoting your protein. One thing I, this idea of, restricted eating something right at the start. What kind of window we talking about? And do you think that someone's fasting regime, quote unquote, Do you think someone would benefit a 1212 window, do you think are variations say. The studies that have been done on time, using volunteers so keen to do? Sure. Well, I was taking people off the streets So you get a selected audience And that often in the US that pay to do it complete. So you don't really know how easy or hard And that's bit sceptical about these small randomised trials So studies do show that yes. If you can fast for 60 hours so you don't eat out at 5 p.m.. You get this maximum benefit. Yeah. But you know, Can you sustain that. And we just looked at exactly that. Exactly. We asked 140,000 people So citizen science study, they will temperature eating in the 14 hour window. That, you know, this is a pragmatic it works, nearly as well. A third managed it for these. Third didn't. Listen, once, and the third sort of half did it it off, you know, and so didn't totally attend. Gotcha. So I think that gives you a flavour of how many, how many people I mean, I find it easy. My wife finds it very tough. Jonathan Wolff. Yeah. Yeah. Can't cope. Oh right. I think we have to rise as a person And it's, and it's some of, it's. How hungry do you feel as soon as you wake I feel hungry and wake up some people. You've got to respect that difference. Yeah. We're talking about this ization So I think all we can do is say is you know try it, give it a try. If it suits Easy way to improve your mood, your energy. We found that with the first people They improved their mood energy levels had less gut symptoms. Heartburn improved. Interesting. They bloating improved. But it's not for. Sure. And the important thing is for years and decades to be of use. And what you need to do But even if you did a couple of days Yeah. The smaller studies have suggested it. You know the microbes improve and you get you might be by weight loss is major to thinking about, snacking. Okay. And avoiding that late night snack. Yeah. It's not that bad for you. Yeah, but it adds on unneeded Yeah. If you Yeah. Is no problem is it's getting out of the Yeah. But you don't get it. You know, Snacks over long periods of time And so everything's So they would snack around Yeah. Two hours long. Yeah yeah yeah. Just make sure you eat enough of that. So I think that was a really useful insight into pragmatic advice. Yeah. Time. So I say to people trying. Yeah. Try and not eat after your main meal. You know, because they have it in many households Yeah. Yeah. Or tea or whatever. That's a really bad idea. Yeah. Yeah. One of the worst things. Have that, you know, want as your dessert. You know, have it with you. Or eat more for your meal afterwards, That's a better way to do it. So try it but don't assume If it's not for you. Yeah. It's super sound advice, and I. I'm one of those people Which is why, for me, I can train fasted. I have my my meal, like mid-morning. Sometimes even later. Just I sort of very intuitive about it. I just kind of gauge how I feel that day. But it's. Yeah, it's nice to know that there's the research and you've really got to be, take ownership yourself as to I'm going to bring this conversation Let's dive into fermented foods. Because this is one of the things And I think you and I both are big fans pickles ferments more probiotics rather than just relying on supplements Yeah. So there's lots of recipe. I counted how many that include ferments all of them have, Yeah. Whenever I this is three salad dressings All the just your own vinegar. You know, we've got our kimchi dressing You've got a cafe, dressing to your salads and lots of ways where you can just fold, some kimchi into many, And you talk about miso, cooking But leaving some to stir in at the end and likes to warm is actually kind. And of course, we're both big fans and swirling around a lot of this is sticking a bit of yoga with lime on top of things. Yeah. And you just realised that, well, actually there's no reason And so I've gone into the habit and you just need to make sure you've got, Yes I've got. Yeah, yeah. You can g and you can find that, And then that way you know, the you know, you get the ferments and the there's just at least three portions of ferments is, is guaranteed to improve your immune system And so particular things and Covid or taking antibiotics. You know, it's just such an easy way make the foods more interesting and tasty you know, Yeah. Kimchi you put in different textures. And I think it's a great way to introduce kids to fermented foods Yeah. So, you know, just bear with me. That potentially dangerous sounds or spiciness, which makes them. And so more and more, in with other foods Maybe there'll be something. Yeah. Well, found in the thing, but it doesn't. You know, we've got a, like, a I'll show you. It's like a little cupboard that we we keep with all our ferments And then we put them in the fridge We've, we've been fine. Nothing's actually exploded Oh yeah. Testing some of these things both the bottle. It didn't break, but I opened it. Yeah. And, basically this, it was it was a water cafe Oh, gosh. Turmeric. I've got turmeric. It's impossible to go. So that's why the main sort of downside, Sauerkraut too. The same. No dye. The same thing. So I don't want to put people off What's your preferred method That I use? A 2% lactation method. I think it's called. Yeah, I think that's the standard one is, 2% is 2% is the minimum amount of soap. So it makes it that easy. If you just say oh you got two days your, your plant is or cabbage or your radish. And makes it a 2% minimum. So you don't get below that is below that, So two, two and a half sometimes for, for my when I'm doing kimchi, 3%. Okay. Rinse it. Okay. But it means you bring it down to 2%. Sure. So I think 2% in general, Maths is good. Yeah. Yeah I get it wrong. And that way it's not too super salty. Yeah. And it just why it works for everything. Yeah. Yeah it seems to be 5 to 2%. So, I may for my get my, drinks, you know, some of the coverage. Just the water. Yeah. 5% sugar seems to work for us. Yeah. Once you get these figures in it, It's probably anything Totally. Yeah. You know, and, I want everyone to be able to make that. But. Yeah. It's so easy. Chocolate with cabbage mash. Massage it with 2% salt. Stick it in a job and that's it. Totally. Yeah. Now we love experimenting and just fold them into meals We're going to do a quick, quick around I know you could talk about Alcohol. What are your thoughts on alcohol if they change, do you think it's, Is it on the side of pure abstinence? I practice what I preach, so I drink. Okay. I what I would say is that, different people respond to alcohol Get alcohol and rest every now and again You know, you. You always reduce our alcohol. You may be having headaches and, so I said reduced. And I have, I have one alcohol free diet. But I found I actually had a couple of weeks Sure. I have. Friends. It has transformed. I think again it's, there's a person a response to this. And if you're all going to drink have as much red wine as you can. Because it is one Artisan cider is an alternative because Again, you've got the alcohol in there. I do get a lot of criticism about my, love of red wine, but, you know, it's Yeah. And, it's a very, you know, joy. It tastes it's a unique taste. I definitely, if you can have small amounts of alcohol to go out and be sociable, So again, it's it's Not tell people off. Not so you can never have things. Yeah we have it in moderation. But increasingly These low alcohol. There's, Yeah. But some of these zero alcohol cocktails. Yeah. So I, this whole field was exploding you know zero Now I tell you, you know, countries Yeah. And they're like 30% of the market. Yeah. So I think you're going to see more you know, going forward that allow you to be sociable and have actually having But many of us have taken similar tastes, I'm going to introduce you Cammie Vidal, who is, she's French She worked for Bacardi and all the And low alcohol. And she's she rates them. She's one of these sort of, judges She's phenomenal. And she's really changed my opinion on how good non-alcoholic cocktails can be. And, just the breadth of it, olive oil. What are your thoughts Fantastic. Need anything. Else? Yeah. Yeah. I don't listen to those success stories by, you know, big food companies highly processed blend of all the stuff. Yeah. Study after study of shows Perfect for putting on your salads, Don't worry about this nonsense. Like points to. Yeah. What are some of your favourite ultra That you want? Ultra processed foods. And, It's probably something I haven't been asked Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah. So I'm partial to. Gosh, I haven't had one for ages. Yeah. Remind you of. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Some of the ultra processed crisps. Okay. I now avoid the worst ones, and I'll try. And you can get pretty much non ultra You know, if you get one of those Oh yeah. Another one I mean. Yeah. Yeah. It's really good. They were really good for somebody. You know a packet of walkers I'll still gobble down. And I guess the one I, I was tempted by is something like in summer a magnum ice cream. Yeah. And I know it's not good for me, Yeah. It is. Yeah, totally. I appreciate your honesty. I completely could go all those choices I'm not surrounded, you know, that way. Yeah, I know, yeah, yeah. I'm going to be really careful about what I surround myself with, my sort of, my limits are. Like, I have to be very intentional On the subject of, ups, we're going Not not an ultra processed version. No. Some from your. Book. So, yeah, we have to watch that on YouTube But, yeah, appreciate your time, too. I can't wait to the fourth Enjoy it. If you love that episode, from the Doctor's Kitchen library. We talk about everything and food as medicine. Just like this episode right here. You can click it