Every time I score a goal I can open one Team of the Neymar for goal number one... and he puts it away off the post! Let's open our first pack Which pack should we start off with? We got a Ligue 1 guarantee We got La Liga guarantee but we also have a Serie A and we need to get Paulo Dybala... but is he the most expensive Wow it's actually Theo Hernandez who is so if we see French flag we got someone good okay what's it going to be? Italian... left wing back... Dimarco? is it Dimarco? it is 96 Pace! How much does he cost though? Look at him dance look at him - look at him dance let's hope he plays better than he dances He's not even 100K! Welcome into the team Dimarco to unlock the next team of the season but I'm not deciding the wheel is... Please just be an easy one for the first one we have to score off a corner come on Dimarco come on... right here... flick! off the post why does he have to be so short? right here yes! great save come on Dimarco How many times is it going to take? right here YES! what a goal! let's open our next team of the season pack this time I want to open and I think Vini Jr is the most expensive it's actually Jude Bellingham he's 6.7 million but I don't know why I'm getting so excited I but if they're that expensive knowing my luck we're probably what's it going to be... who's this? Centre - Rudiger? no way! how expensive is he? is he good? I was not expecting to get him! but of course it's another Real Madrid player and the same dance move oh my days we got to get these he's 600,000 - not bad, our first two players in and the team rating is 30... if they're all getting discarded Rudiger isn't known for scoring so every single it's going to be a volley outside the box volley Volley! Okay this may take forever Perfect! Why... he... that's... that doesn't count we need to score a volley he just scored that is pretty impressive no way they raged quit after that flick... shoot! that's outside! oh that's close I don't even know what foot he shoots with flick... volley! oh that's close I think he might be left footed volley! close... he might actually Rudiger... from here... yes, yes! what a strike! Rudiger! give him a griddy, give him a griddy! what in the world was that shot? I guess he is left footed I want to open the French pack next and the only player he's like 10 million coins he's 15 million coins?! imagine we get him if it's a French flag I'm going to go crazy please show me France... is it Vitinha? right - who is this? no... another defender? how are we even going to get a 94 rating? Thiago Santos I'm sorry I've not even 50,000 coins at least we're up to a 43 rating another defender so I hope entire pitch he does have 99 pace so counter attack, counter attack, let's go please, please... just get oh! look at this - look look at this one no! he just destroyed my whole body the worst part is running back don't even try to tackle me get away from me no! I would have been through everyone's tired, 82nd minute, we got to go we got it... we still got it... run! we still got it finish! why did you not shoot?! we got to just stick to the touch line this looks good... or I just beat him with pace there's just so many of them still have it... still have it... I just need to put this one away yes! yes! griddy griddy you're not skipping my griddy let's open the next pack from now on the team of the season packs which means we can get Messi will we see one of their flags? who is - is this Haaland? no way! no... never mind never mind well at least we finally have an now what do we need to score a Scorpion Kick? I've been practicing this one and the into a Scorpion Kick and then here we go... attempt number one... no way first attempt! what a goal! who needs Haaland when you got Hegerberg? the practice paid off please just give us a card give me a big flag... big flag... Italy, goalkeeper... we have Donnarumma we do have a goalkeeper I guess that's a that might be a problem is he even over 100,000 coins? he's not. He's not even 70 at least the rating is now 65 what do we need to score with our goalkeeper? A Power Shot the strategy is to win a corner, and now we shoot get in! that is maybe one of the worst all right seems like the is to get right in front get in! what was that!? they keep getting worse! maybe this will make it easier Donnarumma, first attempt as striker... oh, that actually almost went in! what a move - and the finish okay we actually got it on target for once now it's time to put it in the back of the net Donnarumma... to give us the power shot goal and it goes in! he was moving his keeper give him a little griddy that's not a griddy but it'll do let's open our next pack and it was on his weak foot too another Serie A TOTS pack has dropped which please just show me Argentina flag it's English it's centre-back it's Smalling... what rating is he it's a team of the season moments how are we going to get a 94 rating?! he's not even 30,000 coins! the rating is now 73 and I think entire backline complete in one of these videos please be an easy one run into net with Chris Smalling let's see how this goes this is a centre back you're watching no - okay that is a centre back confirmed falling, flick! what! he almost flew into the post come on Smalling...come on! the red card might make it easier for us come on Smalling... show us your pace! what if I flick it over... yes, yes! I flicked it over! we got our next pack! what a run by Smalling now we really need a player don't tell me it's Haaland please be Haaland! how many times are we going to get baited? and they're only 90 rated - 14 more more to go what do we need to score... a bicycle with Terland Corner kicks are perfect for this, let's never mind, too high in the air let's try that again bicycle? oh what a shot! no way it's a save from here no - oh my that's a lot of power in that from here yes! what a strike we need VAR for that but that looks good hit him with a griddy sorry not VAR V A R apparently I'm saying it wrong now what is the decision of VAR? that looks like a bicycle we're counting it we're on to the next pack now I didn't think we'd have to get to this point but we are desperate for a good rated player, so I'm buying this 550,000 coin pack it guarantees Serie A Team of the Season players let's see who we get I have never spent that much coins on a pack it better be worth it Christian Pulisic What? who is this? Who is Girma? She's 94 rated though! We want that - and Sommer 95 rated we're going to have to add and Sommer makes our rating but which one do we need to score... Panenka, thank goodness I don't think I'd score a free kick with Sommer come on foul me right here yes! yes, yes - no corner? what is it going to take this is the one... please just foul me yes, yes finally... will they dive out of the way? let's see ohhh what did I do I just red timed it and he dove out of the way what am I doing?! why is it so hard to score a Panenka? that's a pen finally! now please just don't red time it that's perfect... if it doesn't go in yes! we're getting the next pack! oh look at him, dance... let's dance I feel the luck is back let's see what we get English... centre - no way it's Smalling again no - who is this? Wubben please tell me there's a card behind there isn't. it's a one player pack why are they all defenders? but we are up to an 89 this is still possible now it's basically the easiest and we will get the easiest one! let's go score an own goal wait I got to make it nice Oh Sommer get out of the way! there we go, you're welcome no way they're griddying on what is wrong with people?! the last goal is a free kick and to make sure I've completed the team of the season player pick we can choose one of these three please show me some high rated cards oh my days... do any of them know how to score a free kick? No... wait Zelem has dead ball trait! they have 90 free kick accuracy welcome in Zelem we are up to a 91 and all I have to say is all right Zelem let's see what you got for the final pack... and she puts it away! let's open it I told you guys I've been practicing if this player is 94 rated Spanish... Goalkeeper again? is this Oblak? no Oblak's Slovenian We got Gallardo... 90 rated the moment of truth... do we have a 94 rated squad? 93 which means this entire and I hope you guys enjoyed this video that is like 10 million coins down the drain make sure to subscribe and I'll see you guys soon PEACE!