Hi its Tod of Tod's Workshop and Tod have a look at five daggers from the so the styles are different in different really in Italy and then tended to move always behind the rest of the continent. about is a simple quillon dagger. So you to about 1070 is the earliest manuscript very simple dagger and stylistically the pommel but fundamentally this dagger form just continues all the way through until sort of 1550 even 1600. Because purpose to be a soldier for instance, you just take what you've got. So there's a of a merchant going to market and he's for the Durer picture. although perhaps it's a little old suit somebody in the 16th century who fighting is not his primary thing, but he of the deal so he turns up and he takes perfectly suited to somebody who's going fighting but doesn't really want to dagger. Now this handle is quite which tended to be turned, I'm not it looks to me like they're actually to as a Mary Rose bollock dagger. The Mary Rose was Henry VIII's flagship and it sank just off the southern coast in daggers similar to this form. Quite a centimeters or there abouts, a little bit hexagonal or octagonal hilt very often A brass plate at the bottom here and that's just pinned in place so that you so there's a couple of pins there that dagger that you'll be seeing on a lower to be merchant class it's all going to tradesmen, workers, journeymen, sailors of course. The kind of people who do a hard living will be wearing knives such as but I'm going to show this now side by dudgeon dagger was a popular knife form Scotland towards the end of the few similarities between the Mary-Rose dagger and you can see how one has lead plate here at the bottom in the usually a brass or bronze. Here we have steel, but the the location is the same, which go through the balls and into the not a structural thing to hold the knife you're carving the handle because you won't get a good fit so it's just to Both of these have got some sort of a so there's a lot of language, a lot of that is also notable about the dudgeon sided diamond edged blades, but also you forms where it's flat on the back and edges here to give a nice isosceles this one has just been hollow ground a daggers you have a flat here and you these mottos which are on the ricasso not just been bought out of a catalog or dates on them, get a little bit of Then you get some sort of a motto like enemy&quot; or whatever. There's a particular said &quot;eat cheese or die&quot; which I thought fact I just had to go make one of those. these daggers because of the geographic Scotland, yeah it's gonna be Border people who are trying to deal with merchants, the farmers, the better to do Southern Scotland at this time daggers. Now dealing with about the same time period, are left hand daggers. These would be worn by a gentlemen type on the small of the back so you can hand. So these are being set up with a just hangs on the belt at an angle like and to pull it out. The last dagger we are The origin for these is in Italy and they're guys are going to be dueling in the favour stilettos. So it's definitely a type item, or a wannabe gentleman's type louts, lads about town, with a bit of they're the sort of people who are going to favour this. They're very small, very handy type weapons and they are really frankly, They're to do somebody harm, that is the fashion they gently and slowly make that you're going to see these things common. But if you are a very fashionable, very well-to-do man, in London of the time or possibly even Bristol the sort sort of knife that you would aspire to have, because it what it does is it tells you. It tells them that you've got money, internationalist, you're a man of which is not of local manufacture, it it is something like a Mary-Rose bollock thing of a gentleman or a wannabe interesting, it's obviously not an that are available in England in the 16th principle types that would have been be wearing them really. I hope it was models for taking part and especially fantastic location, so thank you. See you