English Subtitles will start in a minute Who is he? - He is Samuel the prophet. He is the only man of Your Majesty. The prophet Samuel Samuel. You've always been a We bid thee welcome Who is that man? - He is Captain of Hosts. His name is Abner And these, are they the Jonathan, Jishvi, ish-besob. His sons. His sons. When I grew old, I ..for I had judged Israel But my sons would not walk in God's And the elders of Israel came to ...give us a King to judge us.. Like all the nations. A king.... ...and I prayed to the Lord... and He said.... The people of Israel have not The Lord God...they have forsaken So they do also unto thee, Samuel. Now therefore So spoke the Lord to me in and I told his words, to all ..and I said, this King ..and he will set them to reap his but he will take your fields and your And ye shall all cry out on But ye would not hear me. But we will have a King, A king to judge us and The Lord told me in my ear. I will send thee a man And thou shall anoint him King and he shall save them out of Saul... When I saw thee, the behold of a man, who shall Samuel... Of all in His will, thou We honor Samuel, of course. But the last of the great judges have not only to tell us the old story, Saul. I will tell thee I will tell thee what the Leave us. Speak The glory of Israel is departed In all of my Kingdom Samuel, everyone is aware that the This was a needful sacrifice not to be avoided Saul, when the Ark was taken from thee, the Lord has Pay no heed to him Sire. Samuel is old beyond Old indeed.... and near to death Saul Yet last night, the word of Leave us. Samuel... What said the Lord unto thee? The Lord said.. It repentive Me for he have turned back from following Thus speak the Lord and it grieved me and when he answered How long would thou mourn the fall, seeing how Am I not King? Look with thine eyes Samuel. Do I not sit before thee... on the throne of Israel. The Lord said.. I have provided me a King. Another? Thou art a goodly There was not among all the children When thou were little in thy own eyes, did I not make thee head of I have obeyed the laws. I have followed the ritual. Thou art a rebel in The law has made an Because thou has rejected the Lord, he Samuel... If I have sinned... If I have transgressed the and thy words it is because I And obeyed their voice. Samuel... Who is he? Who is that man, who shall The Lord said to me.... Look not upon his height. ..for the Lord seeth One pure in heart. Who is he? Before I die, it has been given to me to anoint And the spirit of the Lord shall Who is that man? I have not come to thee with The Lord hath And evil spirit hath I shall come no Nevertheless, I mourn for thee. David. - Wonderful David. I have been awaiting thee Hekla. The last born, does Ey! He is beautiful. No he's too little. - Oh come now, let's put him down. - See how he walks? He's very funny. Look at him. - Come Hekla - Why? Open them. Tis beautiful Hekla, I thank thee. I must Stay here and watch. Why art thou sad now? I had a very bad dream. Thou should not think of it. Don't laugh David. I dreamed that l had No one could ever - Oh would what thou sayeth were true. The same way I trust my sling. If I do not slice that tree, No wait. David, I'm so afraid. Why art thou afraid, Thine eyes frighten me But were thee otherwise, perhaps - Does thou love me truly. Please forgive me Abner. Often times, I think that the advantages of courting a King's It will not be easy to carry out I love thee Abner, I shall help Our ambitions. Nevertheless, it will be Not for the Captain of the Host of There will be many hinderances. - They will not be difficult. My father, be not A quick victory of the Philistines I with my great Host, will The land of Saul. Our last victory over Israel was not complete, But out new invasion will be the end of Saul, Remember when old Saul was my captive? It What did we keep as our spoils? The Sacred Ark. But now, I want much Now I will have Each one of ye shall rule over Aye, as Kings. As monarchs governing by ....ye shall command absolute obedience. Yet none of thee shall ever forget, The King of Kings! These few days have My turn to plow will - And thou will think of thy glad? I shall be without - Art thou afraid? And in a storm, if I - Then I should be afraid. - Truly? -And if it were raining very hard? Thou art so kind to me David. - But David, I must go now. - I must not darry, it's late. Why Lord? Why my Lord? Thy hope is a vain one Father. I know better what I do, than David. The Lord alone knows the And there remains not else for us But the death of my Hekla. This God, by this deed, has only But also rendered thy love more beautiful, Thou shall love another time, thou shall see and then this will Pardon me, father. It is of the Lord, thou And I pray to the Lord, that King, the agility and power of the Persian The chariot is drawn by four horses and is Here and here. These lances -And wreak havoc. Oh, no question my Lord. But the most powerful weapon But the most powerful weapon He dwelleth in the caves, beyond the town of A human weapon that would so fierce When he is unleashed, And who is this man? His name is Goliath. Who is able to enroll such A petty cut-throat. A rascal named Kreb. Show him in. Glory to be, oh King Art thou Kreb? Yes, oh flaming, torch of my Thou art the most powerful, the Enough! -Enough! -He is my friend, he I want thee to bring him here. Bring him to the feast If he is, as my Captain says, I shall Oh, but I'm very heavy. Out with him. Goliath. Goliath. Where art thou? Goliath, it's Kreb, it's Kreb, thy friend, Kreb. My brother and friend, At last I see thee again, Greetings to thee Goliath, How many times I have thought of thee. I have jealously And now, at long last, I stand before thee, and now You are the only comfort How can I thank thee Goliath? But first of all, lit me pay tribute to hou art invincible Goliath, everyone knows No, no don't kill me. Don't snuff out the wretched Have I not always brought thee gold? And wait There's enough to fill thy cave. Thou will always be my I had better tell thee the reason The King has sent me to see thee. He If thou agrees to fi ght for him, he And that's not all, there's more. There will The most beautiful girls in the court.Say The most beautiful girls. Oh Mighty King! I have brought thee Goliath. Bring the rock of Samson. This stone has never been lifted aloft by one man, This will be the true And the Lord said onto Samuel, I will send thee to For I have provide Me a To save Israel out of the Samuel. I greet thee wife of Jessie. The Lord has chosen one, And I am come to fi nd him This is Eliab, our The Lord said: Look not upon his height, nor his If the foreordained of the Lord is Neither is he the one Neither is he the one Thou art certain, that thou has - Blessed be thou, Samuel. - Thou has here all thy children? All accept my youngest son. This is he. David, son of Jessie. The Lord has appointed thee to Thou art troubled It is true. I am troubled. It is written: Who knows what is good for a man ..... life which he For who can tell a man, what shall We know that thou art That which ye have been already, and And God seeks again, that It is also written, far better than an old and foolish king. If thou thus speaks about me Samuel, - But wise. ...for the Lord has told me.. ....that I am to Did you say &quot;King&quot; Samuel?' Yes Jessie. It is not the son ....who shall be called by God But of the great events that await thee in the These things must all be kept secret. Go thy way, eat thy bread with joy, for The Spirit of the Lord shall be David. Sarah, what art thou doing here? I could not. - Art thou leaving? - Then I will wake father and mother. - No, please say farewell to them for me. No, not now Sarah. But I I shall wait. Thy will be done oh Lord. Thy servant has left his loved ones, so that he may May thy servant prove With thy help. Many trials await thee David, but Thy departure in days to come, will In three days and nights, thou Help a poor blind man. Help me! Have pity on me. The finest snakes in Israel The most beautiful snakes in Israel. I have slaves for sale. Slaves from Moab. In the fields, they can pull plows better than They're cheap at 30 shakkels. It's like giving them away. Fine. Unyoke them quick Go you are free! Thou buy slaves, And none of thee - Thank you kind Lord. Help! Oh, help me! Why are these men Because they had rebelled .... and they are condenmed to die in In three days, they'd not Why should they let them die like this? Look at that. Water......give me water... They will kill you. Drink. Do not be afraid. Jerusalemites! Why are you the You are prey to godliness, Ye have trampled our Ye have trampled our Why? The Spirit of Evil is in thee. Yet the Spirit of Evil is stronger Saul! Thou art to blame for it. Thy corruption and perverted ways of It has destroyed the Rise against the false liberties, which I say you will remain prisoners of your evil .....the strenght to rebel Damn shall ye be that still remain I come to arrest this man. This man is under our protection. Miserable shepard. Telling the people to Father, thou should not fret too much over all - Exaggerate thou say? A shepard dares to accuse and moreover receive the protection of our own High Priests. Have you all forgot? Have you all, so soon, forgot? The last prophecy of Samuel. For he did not speak of ye, my sons......... Not.......not once Jonathan. When I die he said. When I die, it will be .....annoint one King. Your Majesty.... Your Majesty.... ..first to reign in Israel, he chose a warrior. -I want him brought to me. - He's in the priest's care. Protect him from what? - I want this David brought to me. - By force? Sire, leave this matter to me. No, if I leave it to thee Abner, .....to all the others, thieves, and the royal orchards. No, first I will ...I would talk Bring him to me. Father may well be right. This young What does thou think Abner? What I may think, I apologize for having put a There is far too much stirring I would not have this David sow more Already vexed by the So thou too, fear this David? I fear no man. But I am tired of the evil - Were I only King of Israel. Thou shall sit on I tell thee, it is no desire of mine to I am not at odds with the laws of Does thou mean that it is no longer By stirring up the people, thou has gone I have seen fights and Wherefore I said, The insolence of this shepard, Did David not make clear, the reason I believe that we should Unless of course, it I will have an opinion on one This is ridiculous. To seek the council of a shepard, one might This wretched shepard is not here As one of the respected coucillors of Israel, - So, if it please thee, thou shall put thy question to David. There is one clause in the peace, which .......putting a limit on ....and stating that only our officers David, son of Jessie, what think My Prince. To my mind, there is Tis shameful to ask a shepard to solve We will hear this shepard. Leave us. Leave us, I say. Does thou believe in omens? There, above our head, There, above our head, David of Bethlehem..... David of Bethlehem. Thou has grieveously offended I have a mighty heart... Speak now about peace Your Majesty...... The treaty limits the use of weapons to the offi It is true, that it is only .....that bear weapons. So then? But the treaty has put no limit on the David, thou has sharp wits. I have Yet, I cannot hate thee. Come nearer to me. Come, David of Bethlehem. - Drink. Thou may choose either cup and No, I will drink from both. I have sent out my servants, to the I've inquired about thee, David of Bethlehem. thou art a wiley hunter and Will thou play for me David? Will thou stay and ...to make my spirit I shall obey thee Oh King. Thou shall obey me... Thou shall stay in my palace. Thou shall remain with me. David of Bethlehem. The sway of David over thine We shall find a way to make I hope so. But I am troubled most of - Think thou that she may cause vextation? - Oh, I have a watchful eye, Abner. And now the people If he remains at court, our - Somedays it's clear to me, what The throne of Israel. Thou has His spell is already on my sister, Calm thyself Abner. For thine apprehensions Bow Saul. Bow to the victorious hero Thou has suffered Why? Because thou art no longer The Saul who was beloved of The Saul who was The Saul, of whom my father Oh Lord, help him. And defer that day that he Restore to him, his wisdom I beg of thee. David. What art thy doing, all alone Nothing, my Princess. I was seeking thee David. My father awaited thee in his quarters. - I shall go forth, my Princess. I thank thee.....Michel. I rejoice that thou has made Thy sweet presence and counciil Were it not that it made its way into the minds of the That is true. But thou .......thy has made thy When I said the wise, the one Go David. My father awaits thee. Well done Jonathan! Thine arm - Like unto the arm of Saul. But age is upon him. And with his He knows not, in which dire Look at me. I am compelled to hurl darts at ...bearing arms, so as to wrestle the Thus fear not Johnathan. I tell thee that the day will indeed come, - The day will come, when the people of Israel will once more.. Long have I ceased Thou art wrong Johnathan. I But as a man. A man who has faith and devine justice Even by main forces, tis needed? Yes, I would even use force. And this? How does This is a weapon of a prophet. In thine hands rests the Saul trusts thy wisdom and To redeem the authority of the King, the - Thou knows that there is unrest, that grips our land. Even were it to cost us all the gold in Israel. - Promise it. Listen carefull Lazar...... The Israelites are ready to pay, what thou wishes. Abner, the Captain of their Host was my Lord also. Thou this emmersary is a wise man, and speaks Tis my Lord Abner, who asks me to tell thee The madness of this Saul... ...he dares ask for the Ark. I shall take the Ark of Jerusalem Send Goliath to the Oasis of Goth, And it is because of her that thou Was she beautiful? Yes, Michel. A man seeks an ideal In my eyes, Hekla was everything. Her presence alone, So with such a memory as this.. ..thou will not love I know not Michel..... .....before I thought this was true. The murder of Benjamin is Israel will long mourn him. He was one of Israels This mishap may stir up the A new king to restore the good But this peril could - How? David? David is the only man, who has a He has already given sufficient Very well, call him. Thou has been helpful to ....and thou art helpful to I am no more the sad and No, I am happy, but how Michel... It can last forever, David, son of Jessie. King Saul will see thee. Why art thou in my quarters? Has thou finished thy sweet That shepard is a One who turns to the prophet of the evil What says thou? That he is trying to strengthen his place How is it possible for David is deserving of the esteem - He is worthy. Surely. Were he to have a Samuel is dead and all They have bedded him But the Philistines.... ....they are gathering themselves I have seen them. I've seen the Host of them. Now I am afraid and my When I enquired of the Lord... ....The Lord answered me not. Neither by prophetcies... Neither by prophetcies... The Philistines gather There goes out a champion from Goliath, of Gath. Goliath whose He has a helmet of brass upon his head and his armor 5000 shakkels of brass. The shaft of And his spears head, weighs And this man has said.... ....I defy the armies of Israel. Give me a man... ...that we may fi ght together. If I were that man. Never. Why am I not that man? Thy has great confusion But thou must have no fear. It is the will of God, He will give thou strength, so that ..the sacred Ark, the Go thy way David, son of Jessie. And tremble not, in thine heart. Aye Samuel. David stay. David, thou will be I beg of thee, David stay! Thou must not ask me to stay Michel. But if thou does not return..... -Where are you going? A great misfortune has befallen us. The Philistines Bau, return to Jerusalem The rest of you follow me. The Philistines have Tis war! We of Israel, have done not to A mercenary have They have already destroyed our outer As the new moon rises, they will Johnathan, has thou forgotten that And to leave it undefended might be a grievous error, for the Remember that another defeat, No Isac. Fear. A Gaze on it. It's It fits like a shameful It is the same fear which prompted ye one day, You went mad with fear and fled. But there is no one who can stay that Host Johnathan. No, not yet. The eyes of Ashdod will never come near It's for us to attack them! The Host of Israel oh King. This is madness. Wherefore art thou not stayed David, my place is here. I shall attempt the impossible; But, it's suicide. Behold them. The impossible is I shall go alone to Ashdod, to speak Who art thou? David, son of Jessie. David, son of Jessie? The shepard David? The renown of thy wisdom But it is useless. Useless, stupid wisdom. So it is in thee, that Thou art the one that calms What does thou want? I tell thee, in the name of the Lord, And not to pass with thy Thou shepard... ...thy insolence has no limit. hine Israelites have armed anew, despite And thou asks me to keep I do not ask thee to keep it out. But Thou cannot destroy a Such as God's law. My only God is gold. My only law is Goliath. Defeat Goliath, and I David, son of Jessie. Goliath. Look at the sky Goliath. The Forward! Stop. The King has been slain. What are you doing here? What is this? What is this? A target? A wine skin? Are you rehearsing No, the wine skin is This is proof, that the man we would I am very grateful. I will now have you going and hold your tongues, Away with you, away. Abner, are you mad? I told you to plan It is a secret, A secret you understand. Abner! Abner, Abner! I beg of you, listen to me. But it is now we must smytte him, for it The people favor David. They Thy Father is agreed. Thou knows how he fears ...the people will bow down No. Do not do this. Entrust I must not. I will not have it go wrong. Listen Abner. Let us forego all this. Oh, do not do this. I beg - Let me go! There is no time to lose. Abner... Abner... Now my father, thou art free. Thou has slain No, he has slain Abner. And the evil spirit in It will perish only I know my destiny.... I know also the destiny of the Glory to David! Hero of Israel. -Long live David! King of Israel. I have sinned David, ...l wanted to do thee harm. But on this date, I saw what Michel. Take thou my daughter, her will I give thee to wife. To fight the Lord's battles. To fight the Lord's battles. ..for thou shall