"The Channel stopped you, but not us" According prepared to fly to Normandy on the 6th of of the largest air, sea and land operation In the last episode of our D-Day series we looking at the aerial battle for Normandy. How German response to D-Day? And how did Allied To find out, we have to go The Allies knew that the Normandy moment. Succeed and victory in and the consequences could be catastrophic. the Allies planned to use their Air Power During the preliminary phase the skies over Normandy - that meant during the preparatory phase the Allies planned infrastructure to prevent German reinforcements during the invasion itself, Allied air power would Kriegsmarine and strike German ground targets Understanding the topography vital part of the preparations. In photo reconnaissance aircraft mapped every One of the aircraft tasked with this role 'Wooden Wonder', the Mosquito was among the first designed as a fast bomber, the aircraft's speed role. The Mosquito PR was fitted with several As well as using photo reconnaissance turned to more creative means of the British government launched a public appeal Families raided their holiday snaps and by the photographs had been sent into the Admiralty-run But as the land and sea operations came quickly became contentious. At Eisenhower's Tactical Air Forces came under the command of Sir two strategic bomber forces, Carl Spaatz and Sir Together they had been attacking Germany since day American bombers of the 8th Air Force RAF Bomber command attacked German cities and the campaign was beginning to take a A turning point came at the end of 1943 with Equipped with the Rolls Royce Merlin engine, into Germany. Better still, the fighter pilots attack the waiting Luftwaffe and other targets By early 1944, allied planners hoped to bring which would become known as Big Week. Between the supported by the RAF, attacked German aircraft deliver a knock-out blow to the Luftwaffe, it and led to the dispersal of its aircraft Neither Spaatz nor Harris wanted to divert and Spaatz in particular believed that alone, without putting Allied boots important to let such dissent persist. On 14 direction of Eisenhower's deputy - Sir Arthur The US Strategic Air Forces began and though they took heavy losses, they the Luftwaffe and destroyed yet more Luftwaffe attacking German cities to hitting transport France. New target marking techniques ensured with much greater precision than expected and The Transportation Plan played a crucial reinforcements to the invasion area. intensive air attacks reduced German rail traffic their ability to reinforce the landing area. away from the invasion area in a bid to divert worked. Hitler believed as late as July land in the area around Calais. This helped the kept German reinforcements away from Normandy The strategic bombers were accompanied by 9th Air Force and British 2nd Tactical Air Force. taking out roads and bridges to isolate the sector Command flew another 2,000 sorties to lay mines on mouths of German harbours. By D-Day, Normandy Not only that, the Allies also now had near destroyed the Luftwaffe between January and June fighter squadrons in France and Belgium to provide left could offer only token resistance to the the invasion. The stage was well and truly set for Hours before the invasion was due to begin, a huge deception operation went into codenamed Operation Bodyguard. The objective was On the night of the 5th of June, Lancaster dropped metal strips - codenamed 'Window' bombers had to fly in a complex circular pattern make sure the radar cloud moved at a believable that the Germans mistook its presence on their diverted defenders away from the actual landing to jam or disrupt the German radar system, Behind the deception screen was a mass of types were involved on D-Day. All of them born of tragic experiences with friendly the order to paint the stripes was not they were painted just hours before D-Day took off to join the invasion forces. paratroopers of the British 6th and American 101st to capture key sites behind the beaches and to they were well trained and highly skilled, The Douglas C-47 Skytrain, or Dakota to give it for good reason. The rugged and reliable C-47 and men. More than 50,000 paratroopers were the D-Day campaign. Each C-47 was fitted out with fully armed troops. Each paratrooper was attached their parachutes when they jumped. Dakotas also reinforcements of equipment and ammunition. targets due to heavy cloud cover and intense enemy separated from their units, while others drowned the town of Sant Marie-Eglise, Private John Steel suspended for hours as the battle raged below him. by the scattered landings, the airborne Next up were the heavy and medium bombers who beach defences. The concentrated bombing of to avoid letting the Germans know In the early hours of the 6th of June, over coastal batteries with over 5,000 tons of bombs While a similar number of B-17s and B-24s flew to low cloud and concerns over friendly fire, overshooting the beaches. The British leaving Allied warships to mop them up failed to make a dent on German defensive tons of bombs. Only on Utah beach, where as a few thousand feet, were aircraft Still, through heavy fighting, the defenders were begin advancing inland. But the resistance many of their first day objectives. That by parachute and glider, including the 6th troops were ashore. The biggest question at The Luftwaffe response on D-Day was minimal. to the Allies 14,000. All along, the German plan France once the invasion took place. And, a week into an all-out attack. But even though total the rate of attrition on the German side continued to be reinforced, but their aircraft The Allies had total air supremacy, a fact Tactical air forces were vital in armies. Armed with P-47 Thunderbolts, the days following D-Day from their base bombs and napalm the P-47 Pilots would descend on the narrow French roads. The Group suffered ten pilots engaged in a bombing run were shot down Another fighter-bomber to excel in which flew as part of the RAF's 2nd Tactical to the Supermarine Spitfire, the Typhoon's and heavy armament of cannons, bombs and low-level attacks. The Typhoon gained a fearsome hundred. However, its success came at a 151 Typhoon pilots were killed in action. That While reports of German tanks Allied aircraft were able to destroy the enemy armour. This delayed the German forces to beat them back. On June 12th "The enemy has complete command of the air over the battle zone and up to about 100 kilometres all traffic on roads or by-ways or in on the field of battle in daylight while the enemy can operate freely... capable of putting a stop to this crippling and Unable to destroy the beachhead, the Germans them from breakout in the countryside. The advantage. But the Germans had no answer to artillery and naval bombardment. When the bombers were called in to break the stalemate. The bombardment of Normandy continued throughout the carpet bombing of Caen by RAF Lancasters and American forces launched Operation COBRA, aimed 1,500 B-17s and B-24s dropped almost 3,300 tons than a thousand German soldiers of the defending Lt. Gen. Fritz Bayerlein, described how "My and at least seventy percent of personnel were This was one of the first times the US ground troops. Some errant bombs landed on and wounding 500 more. But the biggest the French civilians caught in the crossfire. Saint-Lo, and Falaise were reduced to ruins and Nearly 20,000 civilians perished during Operation The Allies eventually broke out from their thanks to their overwhelming aerial advantage. and would never again truly challenge the upcoming campaign for the liberation the Allies had proven to all but the most