The final episode of House of the Dragon after the death of her father King Viserys. In crowned Aegon as the new king in King's Landing. and she doesn't yet know that the greens and what does it mean? This video has The episode starts with Rhaenyra's son Luke. of his fever, Luke will inherit Driftmark - the Lord of the Tides. And Luke isn't ready for and Luke gets seasick. And Luke knows that he's son of Harwin Strong, so his claim to Driftmark Driftmark. He told Corlys the same thing years and she will help him earn his inheritance. she felt the same fears and doubts that Luke feels she accepted her responsibilities. Will her Rhaenyra says it's their "destiny" to rule, as Throne and Driftmark. But this season is all about Viserys chose to make Rhaenyra his heir - and chose to have bastard children with Harwin. at the Great Council, it was the lords' choice to it was the random accidental deaths of succession crisis in the first place. The Rhaenyra's family in power. Yet she thinks it's and that belief could be dangerous. was destined to be king - and that led to the similar stories with Rhaegar, and Daemon Blackfyre characters blindly follow their dreams, believing them and the people they love. So Rhaenyra's We see Luke's vulnerability, and Rhaenyra's more impact. The warmth Rhaenyra shares with and distant relationships with her children. Rhaenys escaped Aegon's coronation. So now she Aegon has been crowned. Daemon's reaction to his that Alicent must have murdered Viserys. Which is his deathbed, he was literally falling apart for an enemy to fight. Cause violence is the only way in Episode 3, when he feels insecure, so he mission against the Crabfeeder. With Viserys dead, and prepares for war against the greens. she seemed to reconcile with Alicent - Alicent Alicent betrays her by crowning Aegon instead? Rhaenyra feels hurt by her friend all over again. she starts to give birth even though it's So at this crucial moment when Rhaenyra's Rhaenyra can't participate in the politics mother told her that the child bed is the woman's And Rhaenyra always rejected that. She hated and she never wanted to give birth, she saw Rhaenyra is afraid and angry. The director In the books, Rhaenyra is even more angry and the whole time she screams curses against she would inflict upon them before she would let at her own belly, shouting for it to "get out". these photos from a prosthetics designer, like greyscale - that skin disease that the and Daemon got covered in the Crabfeeder's and Rhaenyra's baby was infected with greyscale. in the books, the baby is described as "twisted this sort of thing has happened to Targaryens malformed baby with wings. Daenerys gives birth with a stubby tail and leather wings. So why dragon-like babies? Targaryens say they are "the claimed that they were literally related to sex with humans. The books say that the Valyrians monsters to create hybrid creatures. So it sounds by Valyrian magic as a way to control dragons. be a side-effect of their.. dragon DNA. We see emphasising this dragon connection. and destruction. They are the opposite of "Dragons plant no trees". So it makes sense sometimes fail to make new life through So can Rhaenyra and Daemon build a peaceful In the books, Rhaenyra names this the sister-wife of Aegon the Conqueror. Visenya Daemon. And Visenya rode the dragon Vhagar, who is have a sister named Visenya. So now she gives that In the book, Rhaenyra blames the She says "They stole my crown and murdered As she gives birth, Rhaenyra screams Daemon's Daemon gathers their allies for war. They've But some minor lords from nearby come to help - Celtigar. It's funny to see Lord Celtigar, because and Velaryons, the Celtigars originally came and survived the fall of Valyria by coming have Valyrian silver-blonde hair, and they have and a horn that can supposedly "summon monsters powerful house. They don't have dragons like ships like the Velaryons. So the Celtigars Viserys and Corlys keep saying that the Targaryens "The last pillars of Old Valyria", they running joke in the Hot D writing room. a war while she's busy giving birth. So The Kingsguard are meant to be seven noble Kingsguard is now divided between supporting Darklyn are with Rhaenyra. Criston Cole and Arryk and is coming to help Rhaenyra. Harrold And there's also a seventh Kingsguard, who we and betrayal going on, Daemon is suspicious Daemon threatens them with his dragon, and says The Game of Thrones books often ask if rulers or through love. The Lannisters often use Starks cultivate love through honour, respect, of fear. He terrorises common folk with his gold fear you". And he tells Jace that these threats to Otto did a similar thing last episode, forcing to scare people into compliance. So leaders on Jace watches closely as his stepdad Daemon Laenor are gone, Daemon is the closest thing Daemon is.. &lt;not great. Earlier, we see Jace bad influence on Jace, teaching him to be violent? Throne - so what kind of man is Jace becoming? similar moment to Aemma and Baelon's cremation between Daemon and Rhaenyra. We not together - they don't always share their Erryk Cargyll arrives. Last episode, Erryk left Erryk took Viserys' crown. So while Aegon has has her father's crown, which is an important true heir. This crown was also worn by the Old to the realm - can Rhaenyra continue that legacy? earlier, and this funeral becomes a coronation, different to Aegon's coronation, which was that was proceeded by secrecy and infighting. and honest and heartfelt. Rhaenyra once asked if emotional when all these people kneel to Queen Rhaenyra becomes her father. She wears her like Viserys lost his baby, and lost Aemma. Will Rhaenyra's reign also be defined by loss? Painted Table. This is the table where Aegon Stannis and Daenerys plan their attacks. RBG gamer keyboard. The pieces are set to this meeting is called "The black council", and Aegon's side is called the greens. The title chess, which is another game of thrones. Red Keep in King's Landing. It was focussed reminds us there's a whole world out there. realm is in play, from Winterfell to Dorne. and who are their enemies. They already have the Massey and Bar Emmon. These are all minor houses They'll also need help from more powerful The Starks of Winterfell rule the North. Like Lord Rickon Stark swore to support Rhaenyra. Cregan Stark. The blacks figure that the Starks and will support Rhaenyra. Though in the books, rest of Westeros that by the time a northern army The Vale is ruled by House Arryn of the Eyrie. is Jeyne Arryn, and Rhaenyra says Jeyne will an Arryn, a cousin of Lady Jeyne. Though Jeyne to give him the castle of Runestone Jeyne warns Daemon that he's not welcome in The riverlands are ruled by the Tullys of current lord is Grover Tully. But Grover is old - rules for him. And Rhaenyra says that Grover his dragon to convince the Tullys to support them. King's Landing, so the region is strategically of Harrenhal as a place to gather their forces. Storm's End. In Episode 1, Lord Boremund and Boremund was friendly with his cousin his son Borros rules the stormlands. The blacks Dorne is ruled by Prince Qoren Martell. At they don't recognise the authority of the war against the Targaryens. So Dorne is The Reach is ruled by the Tyrells of Highgarden. Currently the Lord of Highgarden is a baby named books, the blacks expect the Tyrells to support rule over the Hightowers, but in many ways the overlords - the Hightowers rule Oldtown, the with the Faith of the Seven and the maesters of Otto are the main supporters of Aegon's claim. So The westerlands are ruled by the Lannisters in Game of Thrones. The Lord of Casterly Rock is Aegon. Cause Jason's twin brother Tyland is on butthurt that Rhaenyra rejected his marriage Hightowers. The Lannisters are rich and powerful, so they'll be an important ally for the greens. Pyke. Like Balon Greyjoy in Game of Thrones. called the Red Kraken, for all the blood he's old, and has already sailed and raided around the Nightfall, and it's said he loves three things are important cause they have a powerful fleet don't have a great reputation for being reliable Another important house is House Velaryon of the Velaryons are a minor house of the But in practice the Velaryons are one of the most most money. So Rhaenyra hopes for their support. Hightowers have more soldiers than Rhaenyra does. has the Throne, he has the Conqueror's crown, and by a septon in front of thousands of people, and Rhaenyra had once been popular, she was called the body is now "aged and thickened", so she might not support Rhaenyra, but that was 24 years ago, and get the allies she needs to defeat the greens? supports them. Because Rhaenyra has lots of this world. Rhaenyra rides the dragon Syrax, has Moondancer. Jace has Vermax, Luke has Arrax, Aegon has a dragon called Stormcloud, though seven dragon riders, while the greens only have which the biggest and strongest dragon. Helaena of Alicent and Viserys named Daeron. Daeron is but Daeron has a dragon named Tessarion, the Blue Jaehaerys have young dragons named Morghul So the blacks have more dragonriders some unclaimed dragons who don't yet have and is now chilling on Driftmark. Vermithor King Jaehaerys and Queen Alysanne. And there and the Cannibal. Sheepstealer is an ugly brown along with occasional sheep dog. Grey Ghost is sea. The Cannibal is a big old dragon notorious to eat hatchlings and eggs. Some say that the arrived. If the blacks can find riders for the greens' dragonriders thirteen to four. army. But the history of Aegon's Conquest shows dragons can kill dragons. Like, King Maegor the nephew Aegon and his dragon Quicksilver. powerful dragon alive. So if Rhaenyra sends she'd be risking the lives of her family. Rhaenyra Otto arrives with a message from Alicent and The Targaryen sigil is usually a red dragon. heraldry, this conflict would be very confusing. Rhaenyra uses a Targaryen dragon quartered with sea horse. While Aegon uses a golden dragon a golden dragon at his coronation last episode. greens are still figuring out their new logo. and Rhaenyra arrives on Syrax - it's just Daemon was rebelling, and Rhaenyra made him back united. It seems like a bad idea to send Otto on Otto, they've been political rivals for years. until Alicent forced him to offer peace instead. mission? Maybe Alicent should've come herself. who brings this peace offer. Rhaenyra so she rips off his maester's chain, and gives Gerardys the real grand maester. Mushroom claims But Otto gives his peace terms. He says that if king, then they'll let Rhaenyra live as the ruler Her younger sons Aegon and Viserys will go to means is that the kids will be hostages - if killed. It's like how Theon was taken to live Otto says Rhaenyra can't win. He urges Rhaenyra a book. In Episode 1, Rhaenyra gave this page of the hope that they might reconcile. But the page is about Nymeria, an ancient eastern Nymeria sailed away to escape her enemies. Like flee to the east. And like Alicent suggested running away is an option. [Pentos?]. On the and defiance - Nymeria became a ruler in Dorne. and fight, or should she try to compromise? Rhaenyra wants validation from Otto. Rhaenyra's Otto as a male authority figure. and seek acceptance from Otto and Alicent. here. Meanwhile, Daemon threatens cut diplomat. But Rhaenyra considers Otto's offer. Kingsguard Erryk and Arryk after Erryk abandoned are now on opposite sides of this conflict. this meeting, called "Farewell, My Brother". each other to change sides. And when that failed, next time they meet, they would be enemies. greens with dragons. But Rhaenyra knows that there's collateral damage. Like all those innocent weapons of indiscriminate mass destruction, and many innocent people could die. Rhaenyra doesn't faces this same problem in Game of Thrones, Landing anyway. Will Rhaenyra find a better Daemon loudly questions Rhaenyra, undermining her Rhaenyra tells Daemon that they have a higher Conqueror's dream - the prophecy that the the white walkers. But, to Rhaenyra's surprise, passed down from king to heir, and Viserys never him. Daemon often felt rejected by Viserys, another way that Viserys chose Rhaenyra and not from beyond the grave" by the person he loves. violence - Daemon chokes Rhaenyra, his wife. never been violent to Rhaenyra before. Maybe cause she's his love, the mother of his children. He killed his previous wife with a rock, after might Daemon do next time he's emotional? was fighting on the Stepstones. He got he might die - &gt;which sparked that whole tried to claim Driftmark. But now Corlys has Rhaenys accuses Corlys of abandoning her. Laena and Laenor, Rhaenys needed her husband's Rhaenys tells Corlys that Vaemond was killed for have a problem with reckless ambition. Like, and make his family rich. But he went too far Throne - he pushed for Rhaenys to be queen, he he married his son Laenor to Princess Rhaenyra. destroyed. Laena is dead, Laenor is seemingly died. So Corlys says that Rhaenys was right, his give it up and retire to Driftmark to be with But Rhaenys says it's too late for that now. are in line to the Throne. Luke is heir to to marry Jace and Luke. The Velaryons are tied to their family is in danger. Throughout judges her. She saw that Rhaenyra truly wants didn't kill Laenor. So Rhaenys says they should He announces that the Velaryons will fully support weakened by his fever. He says he's "clinging to but mayhaps the gods have preserved him for the Velaryons are a powerful ally for Rhaenyra. Stepstones and the Narrow Sea. Last time he and defend them afterwards, so the Triarchy just took to hold the Stepstones. &gt;Rhaenyra suggested Velaryons will blockade the Gullet, which is the By controlling the traffic of ships here, they So Rhaenyra plans to surround King's Landing surrender. But they don't have enough men, Arryns and Baratheons. The quickest way to dragons. So Rhaenyra sends her sons Jace and Luke kids above the Painted Table shows us that Jace they are military assets, pieces in the game of wants to go too, but Rhaenyra doesn't let him off their dragonriding to prove they are not just only Targaryens can ride dragons. Corlys corrects but he says this with pride in his voice. to talk with Lady Jeyne Arryn. Then he'll go on is young, 21 in the books. So Rhaenyra hopes that Meanwhile Luke, the younger son, will have the talk with Lord Borros Baratheon. All these Arryn and Baratheon are related to Rhaenyra, King Jaehaerys believed that dragons are best used all the battles where armies were roasted in can convince them to stay loyal, like a kind her sons and their dragons will quickly convince She doesn't want her sons to get in fights - makes them swear on the Seven-Pointed Star, the doesn't believe in the Seven - the Targaryens tend to see themselves as gods. But King Aegon the Targaryens need to respect Westerosi culture when she tries to rule Meereen. She's told you gotta wear some floppy ears. So Daenerys wears So telling Jace and Luke to respect the Seven Though she makes a mistake sending her children with little experience in politics. They have and Luke are Rhaenyra's heirs, making them And their young dragons are not as impressive as send Rhaenys on Meleys or Daemon on Caraxes her sons, and sees Luke for the last time. the Bronze Fury, who was once the dragon Jaehaerys flew all over Westeros on royal tours fought in Dornish wars, burning a Martell fleet. Vermithor hasn't had a rider. Vermithor is after Vhagar. So he could be the most powerful Vermithor and ride him. Only people with Targaryen ride one dragon - Rhaena Targaryen doesn't have Daemon sings a Valyrian lullaby to soothe ferocious. This is the dangerous power that war Luke and Arrax arrive at Storm's End, the castles in Westeros, with massive walls, and to the sky. The castle was supposedly the storm gods. Melisandre says there are Luke discovers that the greens got here first. the guy whose eye Luke cut out years ago. Rhaenyra had assumed that Borros would be like stone, strong and unmoving. But Borros is like doesn't keep his father's oath to support his distant cousin. He feels that Rhaenyra has male ruler Aegon to the female ruler Rhaenyra. pact - Aemond will marry one of Borros' daughters Stark was gonna marry a Frey in Game of Thrones. each of these women before he chooses one to marriage alliance. But Luke is not free to marry, Luke and Rhaenyra and sides with Aegon. his maester to read Rhaenyra's letter for him. illiterate, and to rely on maesters to books that maesters sometimes twist the words of Aemond takes off his eyepatch to show the sapphire wants payback for when Luke cut out his eye. So to pay the debt. Borros stops them from mutilating each other in his living room. And just like the little twirl he did years earlier. he's still got his eye balls. But In the books, there's a little more to this. Cause one of Borros' daughters, Maris speaks up. Maris So Maris says 'Was it one of your eyes Luke makes him angry, and it's because of Aemond and Vhagar swoop and snap at Luke and just wants to scare him - he enjoys terrorising control. Arrax spits flame in Vhagar's face, Then Vhagar chases them down and kills tell Vhagar to do that. The dragons disobey We saw in the Dragonpit that controlling a dragon saw Vhagar resist Laena's command to burn her - Daenerys struggles to control her dragon magic spells and horns to control dragons, but the Viserys said "The idea that we control the are fire. Dragons are magic. And the books say a hilt, you try to use it and it cuts you. Viserys just as the Valyrians were doomed. the emotions of their riders. And in this moment, and fear, so it's no surprise that their dragons the dragons acted out of their own feelings. battle-hardened nuclear dinosaur, maybe she Ultimately, it may have been a bad idea to give the death of Prince Luke, peace seems impossible. Aemond's nephew. And in Westeros, kinslaying, he admit that he killed a Luke by accident, On Dragonstone, Rhaenyra finds out that her son thought she knew grief. She had lost her mother Harwin. She lost her baby Visenya. But now that nothing of how deep grief can be. This loss or will she want to punish the greens for killing This look is similar to Daenerys' expression in Will Rhaenyra do the same? Will she unleash Season 1 is kind of the prologue to the backstory - who these families are, what's it has those time jumps and actor changes. It 2 will be different. That's when the storm If you wanna know the full story of Hot D, from out the book, Fire &amp; Blood. There's also and the worldbook, and Dunk &amp; Egg. You can get any audible.com/asx. Sign up for a Premium Plus trial even if you cancel the trial. You can get any or Dune. Membership also includes unlimited in the Audible Plus Catalog. Sign up at Thanks for watching. And thanks to the DammitMike, Micah Joel Love, Alex Kaplan, Scott