The Volvo. S60 is the largest articulated hauler It can effortlessly transport up bringing its total weight The XXL dump truck is built in Brass The A6 is the biggest vehicle with only a few parts fitted by hand. Now it needs a train. Most things with the A6 need a train car. Every part of the A6 is bigger than those Even the huge tires The factory had to be converted The machine didn't fit into the gates. They needed to tighten their gates into the correct environment. At the brass facility, around 550 workers Every hour, two finished trucks and once the dump trucks are in action, They're hard core vehicles, practically indestructible. Across southern Sweden, this plant Chief among them VA 60. The first step is cutting the sheet This high rack all the different thicknesses of material Each sheet goes onto the laser table according to specs. The thickness is ranged from 6 to 16 millimeters. This is the scrap material You can see the place from what you you're going to cut in them So you have the least amount of scrap. This gets recycled Next, the sheets are welded together. This ensures a durable joint The welding workshop of the factory after the assembly line. This means now and it's filled with a powder. When it comes out of this protective it melts between 1213 hundred degrees and connects one side with the other All right. here, too. Most of the welding work and parts have been joined by hand. The welding robots take on the longer completing the work The a60 is usually used in mines A heavier load capability means fewer journeys and higher productivity. Engineers have been developing this system and it all started with a tractor just like this one. Anyone who has been operating, with a tractor and trailer knows So they started to experiment to improve the offroad performance. Take away the front axle, put in a hydraulic steering, The first articulated hauler was born. Since then, it has developed This is the 863 axle machine. Now we have a 60, and a 60 is a full articulated roller. It has articulated joint to keep a good ground contact. And we have all wheel drive. The a60 is the biggest of its kind, with a length of 12.22 meters It's one of the largest construction It's wheel two wheel width is 3.88 meters. Its net weight is 43.75 metric tons. Maximum load 55 metric tons. That means a total weight of nearly Its container can take up to 34 cubic meters of stones, soil or debris. The 60 is powered by a six cylinder of six liters and 673 horsepower. The diesel engine supplies in all wheel drive. Its top speed is capped at 55 kilometers No wonder the a60 is affectionately known on construction sites around the world. The Sixties operational function and other types of material, a function by its huge dump body, Like almost everything on the a60, it's The parts which are produced by the laser are assembled on a special device only when everything fits perfectly. Can the dump body be fixed on by a process While in the past welders were almost has also seen an increase This is for eye protection and when I put this on this one, it's become black that the lights don't blend me. In addition to the headgear, must wear a breathing apparatus fresh air when working the spot This one component already weighs But before the dump body can continue of the manufacturing process, all of the so-called spots This job is handled by a robot, This is also Since the dump body is heated, he has it by here to set up the sheet in front so that the exhaust fumes are directed During operation in cold regions, heat or prevents the contents The S60 also comes for use in regions where the temperature But before the body is mounted onto an a60, Cleaning and painting. The vehicle is cleaned There were not some staff cool enough. We used steel pellets which are launched making it nice and clean, and then it's ready to paint so that it's done for two months before the huge parts are painted Random checks are carried out. This 3D laser scanner surveys a large part every day. First, the component is placed then a contact part fitted with with millimeter precision. Harry got the back frame Read this. Not good. Yellow is this dumped body has already been checked Ready for a coat of paint. Unlike in the car industry, is straightforward. We have three colors to choose The paint job takes almost 3 hours. After that, The coat isn't completely dry yet. It needs a little more time to set. That's so that it can be processed 24 hours later This a60 front frame has dried and is now starting its journey First, the articulated joint is attached, which will later connect The holes in the frame Celsius, using these heating bolts. This makes them a little wider. 15 minutes later, an employee Now it's whose boreholes have also been heated up. This is a lot of weight. This is about about 600 kilograms. So we have to be very careful The frame and joint by steel bolts This is for for the A40 machines. And this is 4860 machines You have the freezing cold bolt is now and it goes in without a hitch. There you go. That's why we heat them up. They are slight on their now the front frame is given an identity. Its chassis number is stamped on. It, then continues on its journey with the rear frame, which has passed line. First, employees insert the transfer case into the front frame. Then come the two steering cylinders. Unlike a truck, the a60 steers with the entire front part. While the front wheels are fixed to maneuver perfectly on the spot. Two hydraulic pumps are installed Normal steering systems, would buckle under these The small bolts that are fitted out of the deep freeze. The front axle is prepared at a pre assembly station The next step will be attaching the axle to the front frame. But before that the huge brackets must be mounted can be fitted. Suspension meters long and weigh 105 kilograms. None of these parts can be moved All workstations in the factory in such a way that the men and women Just kidding. That's why we're adapting our workstations on an equal footing. Everyone should be able to do the work totally exhausted. The front frame is now placed onto the axle The component and that's before the engine and driver's The next part to join the front frame is the engine known It has a displacement of six liters The power unit and transmission and are placed onto the frame Change of location. The scooter engine plant is located around and has been producing engines since 1868. This huge site hosts almost 3000 employees working across its 265,000 square meters. The center of everything is the foundry. This is where the world This is chips from all machining, So we take it to take care of it again. We can clean it and we melt it. Then take care of all our own shapes here. The steel is melted in these crucibles. There are always two crucibles heated up. This one is currently holding The slag is removed again and again. That's the dirt that settles on top. The temperature is constantly set degrees Celsius. Then a so-called additive whose exact composition is kept Then the men remove around Small amounts stays at the right temperature. Meanwhile, the molds have been prepared, known as dyes. They're made up of a mixture of very fine The hot steel for the engine into these molds in just a few minutes. Each dye has a left and a right side put together. The steel then flows into the gaps and cools down. Next, the dyes are crushed 40 dyes are filled each killing their inside. 90 minutes before we drop it And then you have new products coming in. The cylinder heads have now cooled down and are lined up ready for the next steps Most of which will be carried out To this end, robots bring the cylinder hea All the surfaces are processed, the ducts drilled This machine and one side to the other, But it's if you go when each part is sprayed thoroughly with a liquid, this simultaneously cools piece and rinses off The cylinder head chamber at the top, Each measurement is therefore To this end, the cylinder head is cleaned first. All measurements are then checked by means of a digital caliper. Then these limit gauges are used once more for additional checks. The blue side fits perfectly, while the red side checks Simple but effective. This one is too strict And this one is to check So this one should always fit After 30 minutes, the test is complete. All measurements are correct. The robot sends the cylinder The engine blocks are also on their way. Right now More than anything, the boreholes Otherwise there's a risk of sudden We have many holes in the surface, We have done the cylinder cylinder holes. And yeah, it's The engine blocks known as an AGB To do this, the short block engine is bolted to the HGV, stopping at each station has been fitted. The cordless which monitors Only when everything is installed the engine out of its station Then the process is repeated. The HGV moves the engine to its next assembly position. It knows which position the engine asymmetrically for the best position These robot vehicles help produce around 10,000 engines for ships and other truck manufacturers. The A6 engine which will later purify of engine oil. Then the flywheel housing is attached. This flywheel is the only used part It's only needed for the factory test run. The used flywheel is only for the hope after the whole test But before the engine can roar it has to pass the leak test first. The unit is filled with air. Of course, and then air is pumped into the engine. Only when no air escapes can they be sure that the engine is air tight. Then the HGV and the engine separate, marking the end of their journey together. The engine must now pass an initial test run of 120 seconds. If it passes, All of Volvo's commercial vehicle engines are painted before All the sensitive parts must be masked. Then the robots apply the paint in green. There are two reasons for this. We painting because we want And in green because of the tradition. And the customer loves the color. When the paint has dried, to the assembly plant in brass, 200 kilometers away. This is where the a60 is In addition to the parts that are produced up to 50 truckloads of small parts arrive These are then sorted into high Bay and delivered to the assembly line This creates space in the assembly area, but it also requires It's important We have different types of dumpers, then the one between those two and when they order from us to deliver, we know exactly which which dumper it is So then we know which door These boxes are filled with all the parts so that the employees on the assembly line because any missing parts runs on a tight schedule. Back to the assembly line, six engine has already been installed These special offset screwdrivers tighten the screws from below The team tries to avoid overhead work. Once the engine is firmly secured The vehicle is attached to a turning It lifts up the nine ton with engine and rotates it at 90 degrees. This means that all screws below For safety reasons, no one is allowed while the Vendela rotates the frame. We are. We used to lie beneath it, lying down for 35 minutes. No one can stand that. So our technicians and engineers came up with the idea And that solved the problem. Once the vandals locked in. Using ladders and lifts, the employees which just a short time ago After 35 minutes, the process is complete and the Vendela moves at the next workstation. The cooling unit is being fitted, weighing 150 kilograms. It's the centerpiece of the 90 liter It seems like a small figure hydraulic system uses almost 210 liters of hydraulic oil. The front frame now has an engine, Now comes the second largest part, It weighs around 1200 kilograms from the sister plant in Healdsburg. Change of location Holtzberg where the cabins and fuel tanks 10,500 cabins per year We loaders and excavators, for the Swedish manufacturers The plant has just over 400 employees. Female employees but that figure is rising We try to have 50 50% women and guys to reach the target. They had to increase whether it's a tank or a cabin. Life begins at the sheet Ultimately, They're both rectangular steel All side parts are required here. The basic parts for the tank The largest model in the dumper series and diesel fuel. At the next station, the individual parts are fixed to a template The filler neck Here. 60 minutes after a tank is stable and it's smart, It continues to the next station. Now its welding Later, this tank will hold 750 liters of diesel. It's another 45 minutes before all the seams are completely welded. But although the robot can turn the tank there are still corners That's why before being painted. This employee is tightening and then all the tank seams are sealed before A process which forced 750 liter tank takes 10 minutes. The employees using a brush and soapy water. Wherever small bubbles appear, air is escaping from the tank and the weld seam has to be reworked. Only when the tank is 100% airtight can it continue its journey These tanks are already painted and waiting for safety reasons, can only take place This clean room is separated by an airlock, and normal clothing Instead, We don't want to have contemplation because we can take off particles and have that in the tanks and in the sensitive hydraulic system. It can stop the complete machine. Therefore, we have this area for So we press out all dust. The A6 with a payload of 55 articulated hauler that the Swedish It was developed for heavy transport such as quarries or surface mines. The dumper is comprised of a sturdy front and a rear frame connected back to Holtzberg, where the A6 driver's All parts are placed so that the welders have These are the port for the left side and this is for the right side. And here we have the floor, And the last one is the roof where Afterwards. From now on, the four boxes This ensures that all the required parts They are then transported by a robot where the metal sheets are clamped This is the left side, Take welding. So put it into the robot. So we can get it to the metro stations. The tech in the gift shop or marriage station on the sides floor just like a house of cards. The floor is laid first, followed by the two side parts, the roof. Then all four components are welded Once all the seams are welded, the blue frames can be removed. The cabin is now complete, and the driver's cab currently But before it's mounted onto the a60, another 400 kilos of components. Since the a60 is a construction vehicle, it only has one door for the driver along with anything else This ensures that all the cabs parts are painted in one go Then the cabin is raised in the air. It's hung on a track system all the painting stations before painting. The cab takes a bath for a few hours. This involves fitting every metal part through a total of 18 Washbasins. It all starts with a decreasing bath. Several rinses which strips the surfaces and removes After that, a primer Finally, the parts and bath with water. With the paint inside, A small amount of rain. And then you put power on the electric. And then you feel that surface. The place will be coated It's around 20 micro thickness So the thickness is very, very stable. After the primer has dried, This is done by four robots The canvas painted gray Each cab needs two kilograms of paint. After 7 minutes, it's fully lacquered. At this speed, up to ten cabins per hour. Once the paint is dry, everything is checked again. An employee carries out random which should never be which should be around to one 200 maximum. But normally around the 100 microns for the thickness of the carpet, you The goal is to have 100 about around. Now the driver's cabs are on the home The assembly line at the next 26 workstations. Each cycle lasts 7 minutes, needs Then all the cabins are pushed A total of 1000 parts are attached here. The cab receives its steering wheel and the side windows are also inserted The window panes are glued in place. Of the 400 workers in the plant, and in the pre assembly. It's the largest section of the factory. Around 10,000 cabins for various every year. At Station 20, the cabin finally gets its yellow roof. The interior is also being completed now while the other vehicles These are left out on the A6 because the A6 is too big. So we had to put the mirrors for the French Otherwise, next the pedal set ensuring communication between the driver engine which is raised so that the assembly is Now the driver's cab is finished The performance test, the test stand, which the cabin is now being attached This shows whether all cables and lines If an error were to appear now, to the assembly line for adjustments. It passed the performance test. A forklift picks up the 1400 kilogram chem plus transport A truck then delivers it where the rest of the a60 already No matter what remote region of the world technology has fundamentally changed especially in undeveloped areas It's important hour operation. Drivers can locate their colleagues in blind spots, The entire fleet is thus monitored a real help for drivers in their daily Back at the main plant in brass, articulated haulers have been built The A60 is the largest vehicle produced here. We had problems with the gates They were too small. And then we go to EMC to do the testing. And also at that point, They also needed to item their gates into the correct environment. On the assembly line in brass, attached to the a60, completing the front frame. This is also Later, they will carry the warm to ensure the load Then come the huge fenders, None of these parts can be moved by hand They include fluid of the fender. Can't be lifted. It needs a crane. Most things with the a60 need a train car because each fender weighs The driver's access to the cab in parallel with the main assembly line The rear frame is being prepared. It has two axles which are powered and it houses the hydraulic system, which just like the front frame. The rear frame Then it's time the front frame, complete with comes together with the rear frame Both units are connected which gives the S60 its name. This joint will later without the front wheels moving will be moving. Yet this is where the front frame and the rear frame and finally become Now there are almost 100 hydraulic lines Then comes the second fender. The next station is where the a60 gets its fluids. Among other things, 90 liters of cooling water and 210 liters of hydraulic oil. The fuel tank, on the other hand, Only 100 liters of diesel Then the vehicle receives its two hydraulic cylinders. Later, these will raise and lower and it will have to support its weight. Plus, the maximum payload of 55 tonnes. The hauler is nearly finished, remaining. Now the dumped body is attached. This component alone weighs to be attached. Later, it will house up to 34 cubic meters of material. The hinges will be subjected They are single part units weighing kilograms. The hood and front grille Finally, the hauler gets its bulky look. Then the hydraulic cylinders are fitted on the dumped body and prepared Something We have reached the final station of the assembly line where the engine is By now A total of 50 meters of hydraulic lines and 250 meters of pipes have been laid. These must all be checked again if the visual inspection is as successful The a60 will be approved. But before that, the dumped bodies once more. Now the hauler is pulled to the final assembly station due to height and space issues. The second he gets its wheels station. Each wheel weighs 1300 kilograms and can only be moved When the a60 was first being developed. There were no existing tires with the help of a tire manufacturer. Appropriate ones were developed and today tall 33.25 inch thick tires. No other Volvo vehicles sports Each individual A robot takes on this job, tightening each nut with the correct torque. Once the wheels are attached, the team carries out An employee spotted a scratch although it's hardly the size of a coin. If it's deep enough, needs repainting. Happily. Luckily, it's just a small scratch, This is more than a common F1. If it were bigger, which takes time and delays everything. All expenses good news. The hauler is now ready, but before it's it needs one last in-house practical test. Just like the smaller Volvo a stress test on the in-house test track. All the ducks and pipes are checked again. Scratches aren't pretty, like this, Hydraulic problems are much more dangerous and to be able to find them The Swedish engineers This is just a normal lamp and this is a UV light, And so if there's a leak somewhere, that lets us easier find the leaks The inspection engineer is the last person Anything he misses could lead to serious expensive damage during use. So first, I'm going to check for this 56 hours of work have now A total of almost 500 over seven days in two days. This truck will be shipped to South I'm like the goalkeeper. Before we send it off to its clients, so I have to make sure because if it's not there, it hurts. Our name, our brand. The hauler has passed the visual Next, track. Incidentally, any adult with a driver's but only in closed off areas legal. We are checking the system. So if I tried to drive now, a suspension, but then I can just activated this, especially for the a60. Should the hydraulics fail during use, in order to avoid putting the driver dangerous situation because the vehicle generally transports loads of up to 55 tons uphill and downhill to check it. That comes down within the time range or time limit. He also checks the articulated steering, to steer on the spot terrain. The final check is an incline test. The a60 can handle gradients of up to 40% even when operating with a full payload. That's why the hauler is equipped And to reverse gears, and they will finish it up And if everything is good, And a 60 hauler costs euros depending on its features. This model is going to South Africa a day, seven days a week. This fully autonomous battery powered which can make decisions, perform tasks and interact with humans on its own. It all started with a Lego model, Then it was a case of upscaling. The Elyx zero three is not yet as a basis for the development The Elyx zero three is a five tonne It can be programed to react and will replace humans Its batteries depending on utilization. Another autonomous vehicle, the h02 unmanned load carrier was prototyped in 2015. Since 2021, mill, both in field Battery operated zero carbon It's only a matter of time go into production. The a60 is now on its way from brass The first stop is the Port of Gotham Berg. Since the hauler isn't street due to its unladen weight of 44 tonnes. The truck can only transport And then there's the matter of size. In order to get to Gothenburg at all. The hauler has to be Another Challenge is the excess width of the a60 in Sweden. Any vehicle over 3.11 with an escort vehicle. Now the convoy can get going. The Volvo S60 is the largest articulated hauler It can effortlessly transport up bringing its total weight up to nearly 100 The XXL monster truck is built in the main plant in Bra Sweden. It only takes seven days Very few parts are assembled by hand. The engines are cast in-house from pure Every part of the a60 is bigger in the factory. The dumped body alone can hold up to 34 cubic meters of cargo. Even its huge for the a60. But once the hauler is in use, A tool for the dirty work. Virtually indestructible.