Transcriber: Natal'ia Ovchinnikova I speak seven languages. As soon as people find out about that, what I'm most often asked -- other than for my phone number -- is: &quot;How did you do it? How did you go about learning Well, today I'm going to So my phone number is 212... (Laughter) I'm just kidding. See, I was raised as a polyglot. And by the time I turned 18, I could speak already And then for the subsequent three years, I learned three additional languages. It's about those 3 years Because my language acquisition process was very different from that of my peers, in that it was never of these stressful, strenuous, difficult, but rather something I loved it, every single moment of it. And I want to share with you why, what was it that made it so special. See, I did have a head start, in that I did have these four languages But there were also these 5 techniques, 5 skills if you will, that I use that made the language And it's about those 5 techniques that I want to talk about. So let's dig right in. And for the first one, the first thing that we've got to do is to take a very deep breath. And relax. And the reason for it we're taught how to do things right. From the moment we were born we're taught what things we should do, and how to do things properly. Well, when it comes to language learning, the golden rule of language learning, the most important thing, is to get things wrong, to make mistakes, and that is the first rule. Let me explain to you why. See, when we've known languages, we know a whole collection of sounds and a whole collection of structures, which combined make what I like to call -- and for the purpose our &quot;'language database.&quot; And our language database will contain all the sounds and structures However, there is a whole family that are beyond our database. And for us to be able to embark on those there is nothing within our database, nothing within our knowledge that will tell us when nothing to tell us Let's say we're going to explore There is nothing in our database. When we say it, we could say it perfectly, but in our minds, So you know that queasy feeling, when we feel like we're doing That is the trigger Because that is the signal that tells you and that you're allowing yourself Let me show you how Let's say, we're going to go So, the word &quot;door&quot; So, for &quot;Puerta&quot; we've got So, the &quot;Pu,&quot; &quot;e,&quot; and &quot;ta.&quot; However, when it comes to the &quot;r,&quot; that sound is not in our database. The &quot;RR.&quot; The rolled &quot;r&quot; does not exist And it's a little bit on the outside. So, if we allowed ourselves to bridge through our database, and to make the mistake, we could make sounds like the &quot;RR.&quot; But instead, what sometimes happens is that we get the closest relative of it and that is the &quot;ah-er&quot; sound. (Laughter) And that &quot;ah-er&quot; sound makes something which doesn't mean a thing in Spanish, and actually doesn't sound too charming. And it doesn't tell you too much. So, for the first technique, allow yourself to make that mistake, so that sounds like &quot;Puerta&quot; can come out. And now let's go to the second one. For the second one, I'm going to need We're going to read And on the count of three. So let's start with the first one, (Audience) Mao. The second one: one, two, three. SE: Perfect. Third one. (Audience) Cocao. And the fourth one. One, two, three. (Silence) Oh. Let me show you what happened We get theses four words and we put them through And we get something And I'll tell you the results of that. So for the first one &quot;Mao,&quot; which means &quot;hand&quot; in Portuguese, we put it through the filter, (Laughter) For the second one we get &quot;coco,&quot; which is &quot;coconut&quot; in Portuguese, or &quot;coco,&quot; which means &quot;poop.&quot; We put through the filter, (Laughter) And for the fourth one, we have &quot;huo,&quot; which means &quot;fire&quot; in Chinese. And we get -- if you're feeling really creative, (Laughter) But anyway, these don't tell you much And if you think it's only one way, only if you're going from English think about non-native speakers. And try to explain to someone that this [though] is pronounced &quot;though,&quot; and that this [thought] And even though they have nothing to do with one another. Or try to explain to them that this [enough] is &quot;enough&quot; and this [enuf] is just simply wrong. See, there is nothing useful when you're trying to learn a language. Why? Because it will So what is the second technique? Scrap it. Scrap the foreign alphabet. Let me give you an alternative This is a Brazilian currency, and it spelled like this. On the count of three, can we all say (Audience) Real. SE: We have some people Yeah, &quot;re-al,&quot; for the most part. And as useful as this might seem, And when you're speaking Portuguese, Let me give you an alternative. See, in Portuguese, So let me teach you how to say it. So on the count of three, let's say &quot;he.&quot; So it's &quot;hey&quot; without the &quot;y&quot; sound. So, one, two, three -- &quot;he.&quot; (Audience) HE. And now let's say &quot;ou.&quot; It's like &quot;ouch&quot;, so it's &quot;ou.&quot; One, two, three, (Audience) OU. So, &quot;HE.&quot; (Audience) HE. SE: &quot;OU.&quot; (Audience:) OU. SE: &quot;HE.&quot; SE: &quot;OU.&quot; SE: &quot;HE-OU,&quot; HEOU. (Audience) HE-OU. Now you all sound like (Laughter) So why would we go and use that looks like &quot;real,&quot; when instead you can use something that looks like this and gives you about how to say something And that puts us in a really good spot because at this point we allowed ourselves to break through our database to go into that uncharted territory And then, we figured out in a way that the information But then how can we test it? And that's where Technique number 3 So finding someone who's detail-oriented and won't let you to get away And more than finding someone the guru for the language, it's more about establishing Relationship with someone, where they'll correct you, and making sure that you're getting But at the same time, someone who will encourage you to get things wrong and to make And sticklers could be your teacher, it could be your tutor, friend, it could be someone on Skype You can find sticklers all over the place, and with technology, And then it's time to practice. And for practicing, See, I always thought I had this thing that was a little bit and then I realized how useful it was. I always did what I like to call And shower conversations are When I was learning a new language, I would stay in the shower I would remember I remember when I was learning Chinese, and I would haggle to get that wonderful dumpling, or I would go to Roma and I'd ask for directions It was amazing. The beautiful thing is that it allows you to find wherever because you're having For example, it's easy to ask Or even better, giving directions. Well, the shower conversation forces you And you don't need Another wonderful thing You can have them in the shower, walking down in the streets, and seriously, if you're in the subway, speaking to yourself in a foreign you'll fit right in. You're fine. It's great, because you don't depend on anything and I did this for years. And later on I found Michael Phelps is known to visualize several times over, Worked great for him, and it works great for me, too, so it would work for you as well. And now let's go to using the language. Because up to now, it's great, we've figured out and that puts us in a really good position and for that I recommend To find a conversation buddy, I recommend you follow what I call And that is a way that you can make sure that your incentives are always aligned So for that is, the target language should be Why? If you're anything like me, you like to learn languages, so that you can communicate so that you can reach out and understand a little bit more And so, if we try to talk to that both of us don't do really well, or whatever language you're odds are that you're going to revert So I recommend you to find someone is your target language. And if you can't find one locally, Or if you can travel, There's a problem with that, because it's difficult to find someone But I've got good news. And I've found that out when I was work, and one of my colleagues, he speaks a ton of languages, and our best language in common Our second best language in common: But we always spoke in German Why was that? It was because there were people there were people in the office But we could talk about Friday and nobody had any idea So it can also be your best (Laughter) And it becomes such a convenient tool. You can have it with your friends and you get the sense of privacy No matter where you are, So, let's recap. With the first technique we allow ourselves to break and to explore the uncharted territory of sounds and structures Then with the second one, we learn how to take notes and how to make sure in a way that we can replicate Then we can check the mistakes Fourth: Practice. Have shower conversations, And then, follow the Buddy Formula, and you can find somebody And after that, (Italian) we get to (German) where learning languages is no longer something stressful, (Spanish) but rather A world, where each of us (French) new cultures and (Br. Portuguese) is that we end up learning (Greek) As of now, But that doesn't mean (Mandarin Chinese) begins with the first step.&quot; (English) And this is not a problem, Thank you. (Applause)