Transcriber: Take A Mile Ok, so I'm looking for a volunteer. Let's see - Ok. Alright! I am going to choose you. Ok, now what you're going to do is and you're going to get on stage and you're going to tell your big idea Come on up, come on. No, no, I'm just kidding. But can you imagine - you been standing back there or down here, running your talk over and over again and suddenly you realize: You can't remember anything Your hands are shaking, you know, you think you might throw up. I mean what you're going to do? Ok, I'm just going to take jump up and down lightly, then just repeat that first line and just pray that when I come out here I mean can you imagine Fear is wonderful, Fear forces you to pretend. We imagine our way out of our disaster. Now heading for disaster but it can bring out the best in you. Each of us is writing our own scripts. We're starring, directing Sometimes like a movie. Sometimes it's a scary move, sometimes a romantic comedy, and sometimes it's a docudrama. But all of it, is of our own creation. And where does that movie come from? Imagination is the engine of our lives. And it can get us into trouble. I can think of some times when we might and want to share and even as kids we learn early on that if we are not focusing we're going to get But when we use our imagination and confined way, we call this brainstorming. Well, I want to talk about using your imagination in an unconstrained and an uncontrolled way that's not going to get you into trouble. Imagination fuels everything. Einstein according to some, wasn't the greatest genius There was another guy, Henri Poincare who actually was said to have equal But what made Einstein so unique, was that he took command and he would run He'd think, &quot;What would happen And these thought experiments led him to make new connections Well, if Einstein can do it, Ok? Let's combine fantasy and reality; kids do it all the time. For example, here's me as a small child. I was this cowboy. I was this combat fighter. I was this small racer on a bike, Tomboy, do you think? And these are slightly embarrassing but they're not half as embarrassing How many of you remember I was a performance artist. I can't tell you exactly but I do know that I passed a hat A kind friend of mine suggested and take some formal acting training. And as an actor in New York so on the weekends, and one weekend and so we went to my usual spot, and I got all set up Now, I will not reveal but let me just say it involved a tennis racket and a moonwalk. After I was through we passed a hat and you know we made 8 dollars, I'm thinking, &quot;Whoa, ok we're going So when our way down, and my friend turns to me and says, &quot;Hey Patti, did you ever want &quot;Frank, I am a performance artist; But then I can't get it out of my head, and I imagine myself, I go down the stage door where there's a star and my name, and then there's my costume laid out, and then I put on my make-up and go stand behind and wait for them to call places and that audience hush. And it was thrilling, I mean really. And it was a great fantasy to have where I was schlepping burritos at Mama's Mexican Kitchen I'd think, &quot;Well, if I were at Broadway &quot;Tavern on the Green! Yes.&quot; &quot;And If I were on Broadway, well who would I be hanging out with?&quot; &quot;Oh, Lily Tomlin and Eddie Murphy,&quot; (Laughter) And then I put it out my mind and later that fall well I don't know what happened and the NEA stopped funding performance art! Big surprise! And so came to the end of the mind, and I didn't have enough money for my rent, and so I thought, so I grab a rake, and I go up to the wealthiest and I start knocking door-to-door asking if I could rake their yard And now, my hair is shocking pink, and I knock and I knock and I knock and nobody'll even open their door except for this minister And you know it's a typical Seattle day, it's like pouring and the wind's blowing and the rain's pouring, and I'm out there raking and raking and I'm raking and raking. And finally that minister comes out and he shoves ten dollars at me and says, So I do. When I get there, Now how many of you ever had raise your hand? My people! And the first one's from my friend Karen, Boop, &quot;Hey PD, they're auditioning performance you've got to go.&quot; And the next one Boop, &quot;Patti, I think I finally found an opportunity So I call immediately and then the next day and I get in that line, that goes all the way around the block. And when I get up there to the door, they want me to do a dance routine. But I just do the little routine that I can and I'm just quirky enough (Laughter) And then this amazing thing happens. That show goes from that small theater And then, imagine, it goes from the Seattle Rep And then six months later, Broadway. Audience: Tavern on the Green. Patti Dobrowolski: Tavern on the Green. and during the run at the show Audience: Lily Tomlin and Eddie Murphy Patti Dobrowolski: No, (Laughter) Imagination changes everything. You may not know but the more freedom you give yourself the more realities you get to experience. When we play out here or in here, we transform our world. Later - and I mean much later - Great job for an actor, and one day we were in a meeting, and a guy gets up and he, instead of scribing he puts a big piece of paper up on the wall and he draws a picture And that amazing mural captured And it was like a snapshot It was like a freeze-frame in that movie, it was like an Einstein thought experiment. How can we manifest our imaginings? I wanted to know. So, here's the thought experiment I've been running with people for the past 15 years. I found that when you are facing fear, or challenge or discomfort, if you imagine yourself and dream that desired new reality, and then you draw a picture of it, and you add to it all the qualities and characteristics it will happen, You just need to pretend and then, like a child, enter into that world and dream it with all your heart, you know just play in there, you don't need to worry life will fill in the blanks, You may be surprised by which pieces of your dream but it will be the pieces Take Landfill Harmonic. They live in a dump - really. They actually live in a dump. But what they imagined was a symphony, but in this city in Paraguay So what did they do? They imagined their city filled with music, and then, they made (Video) better known as Bebi. I'm 19 and I play the Cello. This Cello is made from an oil can, and wood that was thrown The pegs are made out of an old tool and used to make gnocchi. It sounds like this. (Music) Patti Dobrowolski: Isn't that amazing? Imagination is the one tool and daydreaming is our common language. A great imagination crisis, turmoil or disaster. So trust yourself, you are uniquely designed to face any predicament that you encounter, you just need to let Thank you.