Back in 2019 on a cool Spring day in Hamburg a 25 year old woman took the stage at one of the largest digital marketing conventions in the world. and she'd say something that would make a lot of people angry. Bahlsen is a baked goods company, most known for their Leibniz butter biscuit, the choco Leibniz milk chocolate biscuit, as well as animal crackers. Their German family-run cookie cutter company with pastries that are profitable producing hundreds of millions in yearly revenue and that revenue is something that Verena made the mistake of appreciating a bit too publicly: This was cringe. Not only because she was a 25 year old family made millionaire, who wanted a yacht. But also because her wealth came from a company, that had used forced labor during World War II. From around 1940 to the end of the second world war, the Bahlsen company obtained hundreds of forced labourers to be used at their factory in Hannover. What made things worse for Verena, though, is that she did not take kindly to the criticism against her speech. Later she told a German tabloid that the forced labourers were before her time, that they were paid exactly as much as German workers and that the company treated them well. Surprisingly, people didn't think it was a particularly clever comeback. Days later, Verena was taken out of the spotlight and issued a public apology. But it was too late. Bahlsen stirred the pot, so investigative reporters decided to add some more ingredients. They discovered that the owners of the Bahlsen biscuit empire had been members of the Nazi party and donated to the SS. Many of the involuntary labourers used in Hannover came from a factory in Kyiv. A factory that the Bahlsen family had taken over after Nazi occupation. So the Bahlsens hired a German historian, Manfred Grieger, to investigate them - only after it was convenient for them to do so. Now, whether the Bahlsens are a family to be upset about - we don't know. Verena Bahlsen is no Nazi. But we can tell you whether the Bahlsen family history and how they handled it is truly unique... It's not. The Bahlsens aren't alone. And they're so, so far from the worst. Germany is the economic Powerhouse of the European Union. A country with an iron grip of the global manufacturing industry and a specialised, powerful mittelstand. But the strong German economy is built on top of a business tradition that's quite different from other Western countries. Some of its largest and most important enterprises are largely, or fully controlled by families. And families have histories. This is a video about three of these families. Families that share a difficult Nazi past but also produce products that you likely know and can consume today. And three families who, instead of fully acknowledging that past, have twisted and turned and fought trying to hide it, until of course, it was convenient not too. Families that have accrued so much wealth and taught Financial leaderboards but with names and faces you don't know. So this story starts with a face you probably do. Heinrich Himmler was one of the leading figures of the Nazi party, and one of the main architects of the Holocaust. He was appointed by Hitler to the Reichsfuhrer of the Schutzstaffel, which eventually led him to the position of Reichskommissar for the Strengthening of the German Ethnic Stock. Himmler could decide who was German in occupied areas, and how to efficiently handle those who were not. He established the first concentration camp, which impressed Hitler so much that Himmler was tasked with establishing the entire system. He was entrusted with implementing the Final Solution of the Jewish Question - and his Einsatzgruppen, alone, killed nearly two million people. But we're not here to talk about the atrocities of Himmler, we're here to talk about his friends. The Freundeskreis der Wirtschaft, was a group of German Industrialists that served as a middle ground between Nazi party and industry. The group coordinated around one million German marks to be used by Himmler outside of budget, which included the Aryan eugenics research. One of the especially passionate Nazis in that group was a CEO of a company most know a bit too well. Richard Kaselowsky He handed out signed copies of Mein Kampf to new employees. And in Himmler's inner circle, he attended practically every meeting at the Aero club in Berlin. Kaselowsky funded Himmler's Lebensborn, the plan to support aryanization by seizing children from parents, categorising them, and reassigning them to different ones - with the unwanted ones being murdered in concentration camps. Luckily for Kaselowsky, he was the step father of a child who would never be reassigned - Rudolf-August Oetker. Go to a frozen food section of your local supermarket or look for baking supplies, and you'll be sure to encounter that same name. Dr. Oetker is one of the largest family-run German multinationals on the planet, with yearly sales revenue in the multi-billions. Rudolf-August considered his step father Richard Kaselowsky, the CEO of Oetker, his real father: And like his real father, Rudolf-August was a real Nazi. Rudolf-August was not drafted, but volunteered to join the Waffen-SS. Rudolf-August later claimed that he didn't know the extent of the concentration camps, which was weird, because he trained in one. Yet, Rudolph's Nazi past never really mattered after the war ended. Although his family benefited from Aryanizations, the use of forced and slave labour, Rudolf-August was detained only for his role in the Waffen SS. The denazification of Rudolf-August Oetker never even went to trial. Instead, he was exonerated by an internal subcommittee, made up entirely of his company's own employees. A few months later, British officials confirmed his exoneration. He lied that he was forcibly moved to the Waffen SS, even though he volunteered and also had a knack for arryanizing property. So instead, Rudolf-August was made CEO. And over the next few decades, he turned Dr. Oetker into a multibillion euro empire. When he died in 2007, the company was distributed among his eight children - making each of them individual billionaires. But Rudolph was a quiet man, so he was able to hide his past quite well. In a press statement to us, the Oetker group clarified that he in fact vetoed any investigation into the Nazi history of the company- until after his death. It wasn't until 2008, a year after his death, that Rudolf's children commissioned historians to truly understand their company's history. And an uncomfortable history they found. In 2013, August Oetker, his eldest son, acknowledged that his father was a Nazi. But this announcement does not mean that the family was suddenly okay with being fully transparent about their past. Rudolf-August married multiple times. Although the five older Oetker children were open to commissioning the study, the three younger children were less receptive. The mother of the three youngest, Maja, rejected the investigation's claim that her late husband was a committed Nazi. But Rudolf was, of course, a quiet man. In order to maintain harmony and unity within his family, Rudolf-August had hoped that his eldest son August would train Alfred to take over the position of CEO: A forced power split between oldest and youngest. But when August gave up operational management, he'd promote his younger brother Richard instead. This was enough to split Dr Oetker into two. Today, they still remain ideologically divided. But where the eldest siblings decided to change the foundation named after their Nazi grandparents, The youngest siblings decided to keep their Rudolf-August Foundation In a statement to us, the younger siblings' communications team argues that the name of their foundation is kept because the family had already transparently dealt with the past, through their commissioned historical study and provenance research into the Oetker art collection. A majority of Oetker sales are generated outside of Germany. But go to their English site and you'll have a hard time figuring out who Rudolf-August Oetker or his step father really were. You can find the link to the study they commissioned, but you can only buy that book in German. In English, you can learn that Rudolf August rebuilt and helped diversify Dr Oetker on the company website. But you'll see no mention of him voluntarily signing up to join the Waffen-SS. Today, his children are some of the wealthiest people on the planet. And although the Oetker children have put some questionable effort into bringing attention to their family's nazi past... ...there are some families who have put in no effort at all. In this video we are discussing dark family secrets, which should be revealed and openly discussed. But there are certain types of information that should stay private: information such as your personal data. Online Data breaches are rising worldwide. The business of data brokers is booming. They sell aggregated profiles with security numbers, login credentials, addresses and much more. If your mailbox is full of spam or if you're receiving a robo-call from time to time, it might be because you're on some of those lists. Incogni, the sponsor of today's video, reaches out to data brokers on your behalf, requests your personal data removal, and deals with any objections from their side. Through the link in the description below and with the code "FERNTV", you get an exclusive 60% discount on an annual Incogni plan. Our sponsors enable us to fund time and money consuming projects like this one. So feel free to check out Incogni. We think that data protection can't be valued high enough. In May of 2017, three people met at a restaurant outside of Munich, A publisher, a journalist from a Bavarian public state broadcaster, and a man named Ernst Knut Stahl. According to the publisher under oath, Stahl had said, &quot;There's danger ahead, there's a street in New York with lots of investment bankers, lawyers and so forth. Coincidentally, they are all Jews, but that's not relevant here. They want to push Germany into ruin. They control everything. The publisher also said that Stahl followed up by saying that there should be a newspaper, one that actually writes the truth, and that Peter Bartels, a former editor-in-chief of Bild, would help. Months later, a newspaper did show up with Bartels helping write it - a paper openly supportive of the AfD. The AfD was a relatively young political party in Germany at this point. Initially Anti-Euro, it shifted course at the end of 2014, during the refugee crisis. Today it is considered right-wing extremist and racist by the German institute for Human Rights. Now, the question naturally arose, where did the newspaper's funding come from? See, Ernst Knut Stahl, the man who talked about jews controlling everything, was not any man. He was the asset manager for one of the wealthiest German billionaires, August von Finck, Jr. August Jr. was a private man. The eldest of the von Finck empire. He passed away in late November 2021. And left behind a investment and real estate empire where the real estate is set to encompass But when August von Finck Jr. was alive you wouldn't find him living in Germany because he had moved to Switzerland for tax reasons. And it's that knack of evading any cost that he must've gotten from his father. Back in 1931, in Berlin's Hotel Kaiserhof, Hitler was meeting Germany's wealthiest to ask them to acquire weapons for the SA, the paramilitary wing of the Nazi Party. The first man Hitler would speak to would be August von Finck, Sr. The father of August von Finck Jr. The Sr. controlled Merck Finck and held significant shares of Allianz and Munich Re because his father Von Fink known for being the stingiest man in Bavaria had little issues with raising money for Nazis. August von Finck Sr. helped promise five million reichsmarks via Allianz to arm the SA. And for his financial services, von Finck was rewarded with political advantages by being able to target his Jewish enemies. Finck wrote a letter to Munich's Chamber of Commerce that &quot;the German private banking sector is still largely made up of non-Aryan firms. The gradual cleansing of this trade, which is so strongly influenced by the Jewish element, must not be halted by the granting of applications for exemptions, but must be promoted by all means.&quot; Aufhauser's bank was seized during Kristallnacht, and Von Finck got a taste of a forbidden fruit that he wouldn't stop chasing. J.Dreyfus was one of the largest German Jewish private banks. And Finck put the Jewish owner, Willy Dreyfus, Finck also went ahead and did the same thing to the Rothschilds. Now, von FInck was not merely a financial opportunist. He was also a real Nazi. Hans Schimidt Polex, an Allianz executive and friend of von Finck stated after the war that von Finck believed that Hitler was "sent by God, to save the German people." Finck remained a convinced Nazi "who would have died for his beliefs if necessary. But for his beliefs he did not have to die; Finck didn't actually have to do much at all. And so von Finck escaped Justice. Although he did have to pay around 2,000 marks towards a general restitution fund, but he appealed it on the basis of a knee injury that he had sustained during World War 1, which was actually granted. By 1970, August von Finck Senior became Germany's second richest man. After his death, his eldest son August Junior inherited his fortune. And the Junior sold the Allianz and Merck Finck shares to Barclays bank. When August junior died in 2021, his wife and their children inherited a fortune estimated around 8 billion euros. However, attempt to find any acknowledgement by that family of their wealth's past and it seems little can be found. But the von Finck family may not even be the most wealthy, but silent of the Nazi billionaire dynasties. In September of 2015, the richest woman in Germany, and one of the richest people in the entire world spoke at a press conference. Susanne Klatten is the one of the heirs of the most successful German business dynasties in history: BMW. But in a press conference where she references Germany's great founders, there's a reason that Klatten makes absolutely no reference to her innovative founder father or grandfather. On a February evening in 1933, a few billionaires met at the official residence of the Reichstagsprasident, Herman Goring. Present were Baron August von Finck, Kurt Schmitt, a few chemical company executives, Gustav Krupp, Friedrich Flick, and a man named Gunther Quandt. Only a few weeks earlier Adolf Hitler had seized power as Chancellor. And he met the businessmen that February night personally to tell them the future of the nation. On March 5, 1933 - the people of Germany would vote in Germany's last election. If Hitler were to be elected, the titans of German industry would get a stable business climate, but only if he was elected. That night, the founder of BMW helped write off a check for thousands of reichsmarks to a man who had just told him that his goal was the end of German democracy. Gunther was one of the largest private industry users of forced and slave labour in Nazi Germany. And Gunther is special, because unlike the other military industrialists like Krupp and Flick, he was never held accountable for his crimes. And crimes he did commit. He became a leader of the armament economy, fueling the third Reich with munition and batteries. At his Accumulatoren-Fabrik in Hannover, by 1943, forced labour made around half of the workforce. In collaboration with the SS, they built a sub concentration camp on the factory complex. The concentration camp was set up with gallows and an execution area. Prisoners had accidents with boiling hot metal and hands and arms would get stuck in Gunther's machinery with flesh and bones being ripped off while fully conscious. The company calculated that there would be a turnover rate of 80 people dying each month, with slaves lasting, on average, six months. Gunther Quandt, like von Finck, was deemed a fellow traveller who only had to pay a monetary fine. He got off scot free and never received any kind of criminal punishment. But Gunther Quandt had a stronger link with Nazi Germany than the supply chain of thousands of slave labourers in exchange for ammunition and batteries. His second wife divorced him and instead married one of the chief architects of the Nazi regime. Goebells, was the chief propagandist, and also doting stepfather of Gunther and Magda's son - Harald Quandt. Harald Quandt grew up in one of the most radical families in the third reich, After the war, he became one of the wealthiest men in West Germany, but he passed away in an aeroplane accident at the age of 45 - leaving his descendants with hundreds of millions. Today his daughters and Goebbels step grandchildren, maintain a low profile, having their wealth managed through the Harald Quandt Family Office, which reports to have three sole and one majority shareholding in several financial service companies with approximately 17 billion dollars in assets. The inheritors of millions, are now silent billionaires today. But as interesting as Harald Quandt and his daughters are; it's Herbert Quandt that deserves a bit more attention. Today, you can still find a BMW foundation in his name, which promotes responsible leadership. And Herbert Quandt was quite the responsible leader. Herbert Quandt, like his father, escaped justice. According to Benjamin Ferencz, a Nuremberg trial prosecutor, if all the facts had come out at the time, Herbert Quandt would have been prosecuted. But he wasn't. Instead, he'd stay one of Germany's wealthiest, leaving a fortune to children who still remain some of the richest people on the planet. Both Susanne Klatten and her brother, Stefan Quandt, have a near half ownership of BMW, with both serving on the supervisory board. And they still run a foundation in the name of their Nazi war criminal father, and even today seem to avoid full transparency. In a press statement to us the Quandt family office press team mentioned several ways, in which the family deals with their ancestors nazi past: One, Stefan and Gabriele Quandt have openly spoken about it in an interview with a german newspaper in 2011. Two, Since 2011, the family has supported the documentation centre for Nazi forced labour in Berlin. Three, Stefan Quandt and other family members met some former forced labourers in person. And four, Susanne Klatten supports different jewish organisations and has received a prize for her engagement. We also asked why the Quandts only commissioned research into their nazi past after a German documentary about this past came out in 2007. The documentary put immense pressure on the family. In their answer, the press office seems to suggest that the family was shaken by the reporting, but did not have all the facts prior to them being made public on TV. However, the documentary also showed the family's unwillingness to help journalists investigate their past. The family also did not answer some of our questions. Questions like why they chooe to keep awarding the much criticised Herbert Quandt Media-Prize for journalists. Or if they are planning to change the name of the Herbert Quandt foundation. The biographies on both websites were sent to us by the press office. They mention some of his crimes, but commend him nonetheless. He supposedly was, quote: After the second World War, the German population was initially unwilling to discuss and accept guilt. This slowly changed over the years through an emerging culture of remembrance - zu Deutsch: Erinnerungskultur. This is seen as a national responsibility to accept, remember and learn from the collective radicalization of the country and the horrendous crimes of the nazi regime. This is formalised in the government financing memorials, museums and archives. Through history lessons and political education, the nation strives to make National Socialism and the Holocaust graspable on the one hand. And on the other, it intends to form personalities who can resist mass or genocidal violence. It's meant to develop civil courage and a citizens' ability to take part in the democratic process. Erinnerungskultur is much debated in Germany - has it become too symbolic, maybe too self-serving? But only the fringes ever question its existence. To not partake in Erinnerungskultur is extremely questionable. Especially if significant parts of one's wealth originate in war crimes and exploitation. It should not be hidden; but remembered.