[Meow] I can't believe I'm doing this. Wow, from here. Okay, so today I'm on Cat Peach. character in this game. Uh, so anyway, today I'm Cat Peach, Female Villager, and Inkling same stats. They got buffed in the last patch, so Um, and yeah, we're just gonna take a look and right? But these three characters are not optimal um, I explained in another video but it has to oh, oh, let me try this. Yes, I hit the bomb car! on that. [laughs] Oh, don't get trailed. Uh, so remember, I think it was either mini turbo or the combos that are slightly better than this one, is kind of supposed to be like the male version interesting, like a lot of the male characters at them versus their female equivalent, it's kind Like if you look at Toad versus uh, the only thing is like Peach oh no. Mario is not necessarily better than Peach, you get into the lower tiers, it's kind of just it's just kind of unfair. So I'm glad this tier characters also got buffed. But wait, are these boost panels different on each lap Oh, couldn't get him. So yeah, now we can actually I mean, maybe I would have got in second place if using each of these buffed, uh, female characters because they're female, I'm choosing them because I thought there's another item box. So, uh, and good I think they are. Oh no, I went too far. Oh, A lot of people have asked me, 'Hey, is this Um, it's just that if you go too far to the right Uh, Lakitu will just pick you up and say, sorry.' There's no visual indicator as you just have to not go too far to the right. you can do the shortcut with a star as well. If I just keep these items because I need the star for just grab one right here-- [laughs] That was so so the reason I use the blue shell right at that me and I wanted to hit them. But, but it went over So scary, everyone's near me. Ah, what? Someone just landed on my head. you might be wondering, 'Hey, how did you you might be thinking it has to do with Cat Peach is not a real cat, it's just Peach in a cat the cat costume is not soft and furry as it looks, able to survive that one. Shortcat is a real cat, boomerang but that's way too risky. So we'll just of a stat so I should never ever ever expect to If you're not optimal, you don't get to win. I'm and it's just like brown. I'm on the Streetle, unfortunately both of those do not apply on this missing stats and as we all know, stats are the cute. Unfortunately I'm still using the red I guess I could have used sponge tires to match was going for matching Cat Peach and, uh, I guess I never realized we don't actually have pink tires need a good race here. I want to get a first place Oh, did this, is this person getting would it hit them? I'm not risking it. Okay, we Oh, I think, I think last place threw it and I thought that red shell was coming for me. Nintendo's patch notes have lied to us because if they're coming for you and clearly that is just I'm probably going to get second place again, this Oh, oh no, I might win. Okay, I missed the trick nice, we got a win [laughs] that's all it took. one point of a stat, this is shocking news to the rubber duck, nice pipe frame also has water too soon, but it's okay. I might be able to win. I there's so much water on this track. This might be Come on, land here. Oh, okay, okay, nice, so I can charge a mini-turbo. Oh, I want to try point, I have a mushroom. Let's just-- [laughs] how I've played Squeaky Clean Sprint. What? Every miss the item box like that. Like that should next time I'm gonna just try and do that, and I hate the bottom path with how slippery it is, Made up a lot of time there. Okay, good, got want to stay out of the middle of the road All right, let's do this again. Oh, I couldn't start a drift. All you want to you can start charging it the whole time you're All right, and let's do that bonk. I think when I'm not sure, but I've seen the world record there is actually a good thing. Trick? Nope. my mushrooms. Let's take an alternate path, about this path too. Oh, that's cool, there's a they put a lot of care at this track in Okay, cool, cool. I'm kind of getting exactly how you're supposed to do it, but I'm Item? Okay, nice, nice, nice. Oh, this death. How are you supposed to get Okay, yeah, see, the wind affected me. It really so that probably is a real thing. Trick? Okay, fourth place. You know what? I got hit my underwater speed. I didn't mess up too race. Still not good at this track though, I will Scooty! This is one of my favorite characters I would use her more often. Not gonna lie. [gasps] right, that wasn't too bad, but I'm in the back nobody's going for coins. I mean, it's not really like I want to be at the back or I want to be of the pack. Like I'm not even gonna take the in front of me, like I would be getting hit and do this shortcut, and we're probably back in mushrooms. Okay, I can't pass first place with be in second right now. Trying not to get trailed my mushrooms are gone, but that was great. And this-- oh, never mind. [laughs] Yeah, but I-- I grow no, someone's right behind me. I should have have gotten an item if I did that, but I'm gonna Okay, oh, no! Ah, Sweet Sweet Canyon is always It's just like... I feel like you're never I have red shells. Why you gotta throw Just want to make sure, like, I can't use these Oh, what? I'm back at the front again? Okay, I have mushrooms, though, so I can take this because that shortcut at the end is really-- I didn't fall into the hole. I still might be Oh, come on. Trail? Yes! Yes. Oh, that was such she's one of my favorite characters. Of course, I'm missing a speed stat or whatever, but I am is just one of the best-designed characters in the animations honestly are such an important part my opinion, that I think a lot of people really and it was like, yeah, we love Wiggler, and the instantly in one frame switches back to regular what someone said to me. I mean, I'm not-- I don't that Wiggler could definitely have had more care female villager definitely had more than her fair You know what? Why don't you I just wrecked three people with my-- wait, that's so funny. If the blue I actually would have been able to block it. Oh, I feel like you gotta find a way to have fun destroyed, it doesn't feel so good. But if you again. [Music] You know? The ability to get sword. All right, let's take this shortcut the pipe because I'm in a star. Love that for Okay, that's fine, my items sucked a lot of people had good items. I'm actually behind me so they're not gonna pass me. Draft, that shock helped me so much. Slow down, I have right behind me were trying to slow down. Oh, yes, Okay, okay, come on, come come on. Yeah, wow, I did it again! Okay, I an anti-gravity speed boost so I wasn't actually I only won because of my stats. All right, I have quite good results on this track and I to people who are actually good at Ribbon Road. to the general population that is around like played on a different account before shortcut and I got to but it started to stabilize because I was on Ribbon Road I'd always go for the shortcut to do it but I never specifically practiced this shortcut is one of the hardest ones in the very consistent so I feel like that's what I'm up VR level, I should be able to uh, prove that I'm Cool, got the double item box. Oh, thank God, I one of these. Brake drift, go off the edge. Oh, first? that is amazing. I wish my mushroom came have a big lead, actually. This should be fine. I worry about blue shells because like, it doesn't item set, I'm fine with that. Okay, messed I stopped blue shell protection and red shell Okay, yeah, see, I have a breakaway. This is kind red shell wasn't coming for me, ha! that's so funny. Okay, I, I can safely take this I mean, there's a blue shell but it's not gonna What the heck. Invincibility, please. of my invincibility frames. I almost lost a row with a sub-optimal character. I we have the full Animal Crossing combo. Uh, I couldn't decide, my brain couldn't decide full Animal Crossing is uh, optimal with male do have the cute stat, she was way cuter than male um, this is gonna be a tough battle to try and the female villager but that's that's like four in Mario Kart unless you're way better than can really do to control your fate. All you have but sometimes you luck out and you get a bunch of at the first places, it's not like I dominated right at the end and that's uh, like if you're yeah, that was because I was good but if you're good and you had to get lucky. All right, so okay, no actually, we're we're Okay, shortcut. Ooh, took my mushroom but plant just spawned I didn't try not to get hit here, that's a very common so pulling out of first place here is going to be And my items aren't good, oh this is good. Goodbye [laughs] goodbye higher tiered male who's actually the best in the game because of the items in this race, cause you skip the final No, that didn't block the red shell. Oh no, fire, don't hit me please. That's what I mean, I think I did pretty well just unlucky. So, we have Inkling Girl on the is one of the optimal combos so that people can is one of the optimal characters, Inkling girl you can at least go with full Splatoon combo both of the Inklings and the Inkstriker have every time but like wave four was the Inkstriker yeah, I'm really happy that this is one of the the fact that she's a squid kind of freaks me out even call these, like tentacles or whatever flap ignore it. So, I'm frontrunning on Daisy Cruiser, shortcuts, besides that one that I hope Nintendo And you know what? I hope they keep patching this basically a booster course pass 2. That would I think people take the right path more I have no items. And if someone throws a red shell it won't go for me. I'm gonna use All right, yeah, it's really hard to catch up in first place this entire time. Now, a blue the squid, you know? What would be so funny if the if you think about it, it doesn't make sense why they live in the ink. They're part ink. get a traction boost when the blooper hits them. Yeah, I'm going Splat Buggy. I'm going green unlike the rest of the combos I've used, this, Inkling Girl. The only reason I'm going right? There's ink. I can't actually confirm if it wasn't. Anyway, the stats of this are the it's got one more speed and one less mini-turbo it's missing stats all over the place. So, yeah, I don't expect to do that well, but track. So, we should be okay here as long as, bagging. But actually, it's getting a little bit the whole time. I feel like every time I play I get hit at the start or something like play it normally and just run Yoshi Circuit. I not like you have to bag all this course. Oh this mini-turbo takes forever to it's barely a difference. I'm just complaining for than hitting a red shell. So glad that banana shortcut. Trail. I mean, I mean, draft. Okay. I that shortcut perfectly and I put two mushrooms, I can probably burn a mushroom here safely, it's first place running Yoshi Circuit? Usually, I try is great too. [laughs] I'm happy with this. This but when you coordinate your combo like this, then Inkling for a reason here. And also, I'm gonna little ink splatter on the cart. If you pick the and standard bike. I don't know if it applies for good one is the standard cart, so that's why I'm Yeah. So uh, I really like that design. The see from the back. You have to be looking but yeah, I love it. I love when the So at least one of the standard vehicles can the ink splatter look really nice. That piranha So let's take this shortcut again. Can I be rather fall off, honestly. What was that? I think something. If I can dodge a shock though, that Yeah had to do it to him. no, that snipe was good. That snipe was or not spin out from the shock. Oh, okay, I'm getting destroyed right now. Holy, this And yep, no items to take the shortcut, but that so it's still quite a tight pack. If I could in a very good position here. Wreck everyone, Oh, nice. Okay, that was so scary. All right, Second? Who'd I pass? Let's go. Wow, that was but for the beginning of the track, like if you supposed to be able to pass people. Ah, there's first one. Wiggler Biddybuggy. Oh, that looks Ribbon Road again. Honestly, I kind of want to play Ribbon Road twice in the same session. Wait, track variety because otherwise, I don't know, I Okay, cool. Got a trick. Got away from the person but that works. That works. That's just Two bananas? perfect. I actually like the coin because, uh, they made an update, I think three where they changed it so that the coin buff to the coin item because it was already the coin item is still the worst one, but you can easily get to 10 coins by just, uh, don't have to go out of your way to get the coins, you can more easily stay in first. Oh, don't And just like last time, I have a Always wait. Memory unlocked. I was going for first place on Ribbon Road. All right, cool. to maintain my first place because of it. That I was actually considering throwing my banana this track is, I was like, eh, I don't think I'll for, uh, super horn. Okay, I'm gonna go around. I'll have three. Oh, I messed that up. Then I place because like right now, if someone takes a I need to get comboed here. Yep, we're good. to do well online, you don't have to worry good can be so much more fun. Okay, Sunset so I decided we're gonna play this one anyway. Uh, then that will further my narrative of you can count this one. Uh, we're just planning to have this shortcuts. Oh, that off-road is so thick. I I'm, I'm pretty sure it's faster. It's just so oh, so yeah, I'm gonna need to practice it before to do that in races because, oh, everyone's right um, like try something and then I don't like it. Like try it once and then just because you really need to give it a fair consistent you just haven't found the right setup oh, cool. Right, but obviously if you have a star, where should I use a bullet? I'm, I'm gonna miss no, I'm gonna save it. I'm gonna save it. For Mario Kart research. Uh I feel like just try it there. I feel like the that sucks. That sucks. I'm never again. What the The game really gave me a star and banana on the Wow, and I got two mushrooms. I'm Yeah, ah, just a little bit. Just a little bit, not close enough. But wow, [laughs] star