{What I Love!} Hello! I'm Scruffy, and today I'm talking video game Not Pikmin music, not yet, I'll be getting In this video I want to talk about the music to tell you which one, all I have to do is [piano music starts playing] Yep! It's Mario. I mean, I suppose you also may have seen the played a Mario game or two, chances are that the game to think of it. The music of Mario alone can evoke the idea If I play this melody, [xylophone music plays] and you've played a Mario game, then you probably or invincibility theme. Why is that? Why are these melodies so catchy that we have Today, I'm going to show you why it's so important to be catchy, and some music theory behind To tackle the first point, we need to address in a Mario game if anything besides make it Well, music certainly spurs you on to explore tries to set the mood for a particular level. But there's an extra purpose to Mario's themes games, and even before electronic media. We're heading all the way back to late-19th-century history, Richard Wagner. He was a composer best known for his innovative has become a staple of film and video game It's called a leitmotif. A leitmotif is a musical gesture that becomes idea in a multimedia work of art. When this character or idea is first introduced, presented together several times so the audience and the audio. Eventually, a successful leitmotif will be or idea, even without the visuals. For instance, in his opera Tristan und Isolde, [melodica and ukelele play] You probably don't need me to tell you this Here's another example you may recognize: [melodica and ukelele play again] While this was originally a theme in the Overture based on &quot;Romeo and Juliet,&quot; many other sources or love at first sight. Leitmotifs are all around us, especially in Now, do the melodies we remember from Mario Some do, some not so much. The original themes from NES classic Super are definitely leitmotifs. One play of [underground melody] and you not the character, and possibly the scenery. The purpose of playing these themes in various get players to associate the music with Mario. So eventually someone could play the World it's from a Mario game, it's underground, Mushroom Kingdom. And it works vice versa: if I asked someone a whim, the one they'd come up with first the NES. The music works together with the game to idea of Mario as a character. Now, the reason I say some Mario themes are unclear what a theme is portraying. Listen to this theme from New Super Mario [World 1-1 theme from NSMB plays] If you've played the game you probably recognize what is it supposed to be associated? Mario, the Mushroom Kingdom, World 1-1, the I don't know, I don't think the theme is going It might be representing Mario, but since going into this game, this one isn't going That's not quite how leitmotifs work, they're Still, this theme is very memorable because How do all these Mario-made melodies maintain Hmmmmmm. Well this sounds like a job for sheet music! Time to visualize some compositional ideas and easier to remember. For these examples I'll be focusing on themes a soundtrack's worth of new music: Super Mario Personally I loved this game's soundtrack quite a few of its tracks. It's possible that not everyone who watches but that's okay: you don't need to be to get For instance, here is part of an overworld whole game: [Overworld theme plays on saxophone] This isn't the whole melody, but it is the And here is Bowser's theme, which definitely this game. [Bowser's theme plays on saxophone] So let's break down what they do to achieve Firstly, these melodies are both in common across each measure. Not too surprisingly, these motifs are distributed like they're missing any beats. We can call these phrases &quot;periods,&quot; as a &quot;periodicity.&quot; In periodicity, constructing musical phrases You have one block that is a musical statement [a piece of the overworld theme] It's one statement because the lack of motion from other materials. So you group this block of music with other When do you have a complete period? Well for starters, when you reach a multiple You also have a complete period when you end This period has a clear half cadence because The period after this would bring us back tension and release. Now if we pick apart this period even more, are very similar, down to a one-note difference. [the musical pieces play for comparison] Repetition is very important to ingraining variation makes a tune all the more interesting. So let's call this block A, and then this the first block. The third block that moves for two measures to the first block's material and has a different Another way to think of it is like a sentence: and this is the predicate telling us where Since this phrase only half cadences, this and the next phrase would answer this one, That's periodicity. You'll notice this structure in a lot of Mario smooth, and uniform way to construct melodies. The format dates back to the Classic era of the newest trend of music was galant: natural, But Mario isn't in the Classic era, it's not For instance, in the original Super Mario that are exactly repeated. Shouldn't this make the motifs tedious rather Well firstly in the NES game, this whole tune amount of time hearing it. But it has other tricks to make it ear candy, You syncopate a group of notes when you displace that were on strong beats now start on weak What are strong beats? Well, think of a ruler, you see how a standard inches, smaller markings for the midpoints, in between. This is how a measure is split into beat subdivisions. The downbeat is at the beginning of measures. These are the strongest, they would get the Since we're splitting our measures into four strongest, with the midway beat, beat 3, slightly And then beat-ween those we have smaller subdivisions But these weak subdivisions can give melodies Let's take just a snippet of Super Mario 3D [a snippet of the overworld theme plays to It's very slight, but the last two notes here I'll try playing the melody only on the strongest [a snippet of the overworld theme plays on Something about it, it just loses its soul. It feels more like a machine is producing Not to say it couldn't work, but the syncopation Plus, this ruler doesn't account for the fact this case means all the weak sixteenth note more easygoing swinging feel. Same thing, same swing happens with Bowser's [Bowser's theme plays with a swing rhythm] And the Super Mario Bros. melody, whew, it Check this out: [a snippet of the SMB overworld melody plays Like, every other note is displaced on a weaker Plus, this figure is a triplet, in which the the beat rather than twofold. And, while this melody is going on straight This whole tune is all about playing with complex pattern easy to remember. It's my theory that these two facets, periodicity of the catchiness in these melodies. Generally this amounts to meeting the brain's it on a small scale. Not only is that memorable, that also feels I also recognize these facets are based more This is because, for humans, rhythm is more A rhythm by itself is easier to remember than But there are some details of the pitches to detail. I said before that leitmotifs are all about Well sometimes that comes down to the first To make this easier to understand, I'm going and this leitmotif the &quot;evil theme." So what about the contour of the good theme associated with Mario, the colorful layout It begins on C, but sort of jumps up D and This approach helps make sense of what key F major scale. Now, while G is in the F major scale, it's three notes: F, A, and C. We can thus call this G a non-chord tone. A non-chord tone on a downbeat? It's strange from a classical music theory perfectly acceptable. And what's more, this whole approach to the pentatonic scale. It's pentatonic because it contains five This intro gesture covers four of the five the end of the second block of melody. Why is this scale so important? Well some of the oldest musical instruments tens of thousands of years, create a pentatonic The scale has been with humankind longer than It sounds so nice and relaxing. Now, I'm not so sure the composers of this of the pentatonic scale when they came up indication that Mario is on the good side. Compare that to the evil side's theme, which I'm much more confident that this was intentional. Say hello to B in the key of E minor. Now E minor is composed of E, G, and B. Not also a tritone distance from E. That means it splits the octave from E to E in half. The tritone has a history of dissonance: back tritone was associated with the devil because (Editor's note: this has since been discredited) And here it is today, showing off Bowser with like Mario had. Technically it's an approach to the next But that B gets all the attention, listen [&quot;Bowser Land&quot; excerpt plays] That's a trumpet, with a plunger mute that an instruction to trill your tongue into the Bottom line, this tune is doing everything and funky as possible. And it works. We may not think of it while playing the game, this tritone indicates Bowser is an evil, On the surface, we just think he has a great So, that's an analysis on the catchiness If you someday want to create a catchy melody you don't have to follow any of this. In order to make a theme catchy or evocative, structure or syncopation or pitch systems. This is just what works for the Mario franchise, our expectations of tension and release, but and note choices. That's kind of how Mario's dramatic structure overall a satisfying arc of good conquering In this way Mario and really any video game a work of art in which many forms of art, and a bit of drama, work together to create But you don't have to follow Mario to make With some effort and experimentation, there and memorable, even catchy. But it's still a good idea to listen to Mario incredible soundtrack to Super Mario Odyssey, Now, before I end the video, I'd like to Cheek, a fellow musician and composer who You can check out his SoundCloud page in the And with that, here's looking toward a future I'm Scruffy, and thank you very much for