Let's talk about tap water. And here I have to take a but a deep breath because and what's contained in tap not just in the US but around the world, I confess the picture I want to be clear, I'm not towards fear or conspiracy theories. However, in researching by way of looking at the meta-analysis, reviews, where specific hypotheses were tested, and in talking with experts it's a pretty grim picture, frankly, when one looks at what's contained in most tap water and that are contained in in sufficient concentrations to negatively impact our health. And the bad news is that believe it or not, much if not all tap water contains things that are bad for the biology of our cells. There is a silver lining, however, and the silver lining is that are very inexpensive can be used to adjust that tap water to but that makes it perfectly fine to drink. So that's the good news, and If you are somebody who is interested in whether or not tap like endocrine disruptors, that can negatively impact or females or both, wonderful because it's so thorough. Although the news isn't which is great, which is in Water and Their Effects This is a review from 2020 that analyzes water from a within the world and essentially focuses on a few key components. First of all, it focuses of minerals that is magnesium Many people don't realize Sounds terrible, right? But hard water is water that which turns out to be a good thing. Some water contains more Other water contains less. They looked at the presence of magnesium and calcium because that is In general, the higher concentrations of magnesium and calcium in That is, the more alkaline that water is. And the lower levels of the more acidic or lower The other thing that this review addresses is the concentration of so-called DBPs, dog bulldog porcupines, DBPs, which are disinfection So obviously, local governments, the government wants your They don't want contaminants in it. They don't want sewage in that water. They don't want chemical contaminants that are going to make so they treat water. Water treatment plants treat water with disinfection products and those disinfection called disinfection byproducts. And the presence of those DBPs or disinfectant byproducts of water by way of of magnesium and calcium. Put differently, I do believe to provide people with clean water, but in doing so, oftentimes, to that water that are not good for us. Now, it's very clear that DBPs can cause endocrine disruption in ways that are not good I did a very long, in fact, four and a half hour episode That was male and female and vitality. That, again, you can that talks about all the in the generation of and creating a healthy and so forth. It's very clear that DBPs have been shown spermatogenesis, and fertility outcomes, even at concentrations in drinking water that comes from the tap. Now, does that mean that you Well, the answer to that is a it depends. What does it depend on? Well, it depends on several things. First of all, I highly recommend and put in your ZIP code of water that comes out of This is something that is at least to my knowledge. And unfortunately, there's that I can send everyone to to get an in-depth analysis that comes out of your tap. However, I highly recommend and put in your ZIP code and figure out whether or not of DBPs or Y amount of DBPs. Now, of course, you're going and unless you're a toxicologist, probably not going to know But what you're really looking for is whether or not there are high, low, or moderate levels of Why do I say that? Well, there are studies that show that the concentration of fluoride in drinking water is of particular concern for the thyroid hormone Now, thyroid hormone has in brain and body, and thyroid for everything from metabolism When thyroid levels are disrupted or if thyroid receptors are disrupted, it can lead to depression. When thyroid hormones are optimized, it can lead to optimal mood, But in other words, it helps It relates to everything Thyroid hormone is involved in many, many things including bone health and tissue health generally. So essentially every biological process in your body is impacted And there's a study that which was published in 2018 and the title of the study is &quot;Impact of Drinking Water Fluoride on Human Thyroid Hormones&quot;. This was a case control study so this is not an extensive However, what it shows is that fluoride negatively impacts and so-called T3 levels. So you have thyroid hormone T3 and T4. Even in the standard and here's an important number, 0.5 milligrams per liter, okay? So if you can get a hold of the fluoride concentrations and find out whether or at, below, or exceed 0.5 what you'll find is that even just 0.5 milligrams per liter of water can disrupt thyroid function and this is going to for people to have familial, so genetically related thyroid with keeping your thyroid which I think is everybody. So I am telling you that you of some data about the water if you intend on drinking if you don't, just know Your local government should and/or it should be And in particular, I think it's worthwhile to address how much fluoride is present in your drinking water. Again, I don't want to I'm not trying to trigger fear here. I do think, however, by by way of reading the to a moment ago, again, links to these in the show note captions, that there is extensive of fluoride in drinking water Now, that could open a whole in our drinking water in But leaving that aside, it seems to me that most everybody should in their drinking water. And ideally everybody, yes, everybody is filtering Now, that raises the question of how best to filter drinking water. And that brings an answer of it depends on a couple of things. First of all, how healthy or unhealthy do you know yourself to be? Okay, so if you're somebody you have plenty of vigor, you have no autoimmune disease, you're not aware of any health well then, perhaps you're somebody that doesn't want to filter your water. I would argue that why wouldn't or even zero-cost approach There are going to be other individuals who are suffering or body or both that absolutely should be if they're getting their because it is pretty well established now that tap water contains a lot of these disinfectant byproducts exceeding the threshold of fluoride that we know to be healthy for us. How should you filter your tap water? Well, you have everything ranging from the so-called Brita type filters. These are going to be carbon type filters or other filters that you or a compartment where over it and it goes into Will those work? Are they sufficient to filter out the disinfectant byproducts? The general answer is yes, provided you change the However, it is not thought, unfortunately, not thought that they filter So what I highly recommend is depending on your budget that you for at-home water filters There are a number of straightforward and inexpensive tools to do that. And here I don't have any relationship to any of the water filters or things that I'm going to mention now. I want to be very clear about that. There's no brand coder affiliation here. I'm simply trying to direct you to resources that will allow for it to be more safe for you to consume in a way that meets your budget with the understanding that people have very So the range of costs here is I just want to get that You know, there are water filters that you can use repeatedly. So these are what I'll refer to as pitcher filters that Now, keep in mind that except for the replacement of the filters, which fortunately, doesn't So there are different filters. I'll provide a link to one that I found that is, at least by my read, So this is the so-called with Affinity filtration. So this is a filter that can adequately remove fluoride, lead, BPAs, glyphosates, hormones, and some of the other harmful things that are contained in most tap water. Again, I do realize that for some people, even an 80 US dollar cost But do realize that what you're doing here is that can be used repeatedly over and over. The reason why it's lower cost than some of the different filtration approaches that I'll talk about in a moment are that you can't really put that you would use, or for an entire month in one pitcher. You're going to have to into the pitcher in order to filter it. Now, as I mentioned before, for filters that can and all the other things that you want out of your top water is immense. In fact, you can find, you know, whole house water filters that are, you know, $2,000 or more. Again, these are going to be filters that are going to be in your garage or in a laundry room that are going to basically pull from the piping system of your house and deliver purified water. Technically, it's not purified, but that's removing these contaminants and fluoride from all So you could effectively drink from any or all sinks in your house. That's what explains the higher cost. I think most people are probably not going to have the disposable income or have the opportunity to include one of these whole house filters. Although if you do have the means and it's important to And then there are going to be what I would call So systems that cost somewhere Probably one of the more common ones or popular ones is a so-called These are filter systems that, again, remove the things from your tap water and they can do it at higher volumes. And they're typically countertop units. They don't require any plugin, typically, or they only require brief and they're going to filter or tens of liters of water so that you can always have access to that clean filtered or night without having to So I mention these different options because again, I realize that of disposable income. As far as I know, there's no tablet or simple as a transportable, you know, pill that you can just and remove the contaminants. If anyone is aware of one that can adequately remove please put in the comment That'd be the best place so that I and everyone else can see it. But hopefully the mention of the different filtration systems that I mentioned will that I would hope would that one could potentially afford. An important note about there are mechanisms to and chemical changes that et cetera, elsewhere. And in general, both mechanical and chemical changes are signaled across the body to whether or not those are, you know, a response of the immune system or to make us more alert So too filtration capitalizes on mechanical and chemical filtration. What I mean by that is water or any other fluid through a filter, those filters are doing two things. They are physically constraining which molecules can go pores that allow certain and not others. And almost always, they contain certain Those filters have been that neutralize certain So you may be wondering you know, magnesium and but fluoride doesn't. And that's because these filters have been very cleverly designed in order to neutralize fluoride or to prevent large molecules which is kind of easy to but also to allow certain which is small-ish, or to still pass through And this is wonderful by filtering our water that we talked about before, you're still going to and calcium was present in that water while still adequately and other disinfectant byproducts. Now, what if you can't Okay, well, here you have an interesting It's not as good as the other but it is an option and I do think it's to people who don't have for the purpose of filtering their water, which is to draw a gallon or five gallons or maybe even more tap and put it into some So it could be one gallon, five and then to let that tap water sit for some period of time to allow some of the sediment Now you might say, well, There's nothing contained and isn't fluoride diluted in the water? And indeed, the answer to that is yes. However, there is some evidence that letting tap water sit and outside the pipes that deliver that water can help remove some, not all of the contaminants in that water. If however, you are of the methods that I talked you do not need to do this, okay? I realize there's a whole world out there of people who insist in the sun or only keeping and putting it out for a few That, to me, seems a bit extreme. If you want to do that, be my guest. But I don't think most However, I do believe that for people who have zero to paying for any kind for their tap water, that and putting it into some and keeping it room or a day or more, and then of that water into another from that second container not all of the contaminants that one would need to be concerned about. And here I should mention something that I neglected to If you're going to do and let the water sit out for a bit, you would want that water to sit uncapped. Sorry, I should have Uncapped, of course, trying to keep things from falling into that water. In fact, you could even put a So you don't want things but you want certain things And you also want some of And the reason why this process of letting water sit because many of the contaminants contained within water are not present of that water or even the but rather because of the to your glass or the pot And here again, there is an So some people are living in buildings for which the pipes are very, very old, but very, very Some people are living in newer buildings and structures that have new between those pipes contain for you to consume. So by letting water sit out for a while, you are able to remove some within the pipes of your and even the pipes that lead Now, some people get really obsessed with this whole tap water thing and really want to find about the pipes and hard metals and how much magnesium and how much calcium are There are ways that you can for those sorts of things. Most people, I realize, including myself, are simply not going to do that. If you want to know what I do, I tend to drink water that is filtered through one of these lower cost filters. Or if I'm going to be I will drink certain kinds of fluid that later I'll tell you, for the sake of this episode looking at so-called molecular hydrogen water, which sounds very fancy and esoteric and almost a little wacky, but it turns out has largely to do with the amount of magnesium and calcium and the pH of that water. So if you are somebody or simply just wants to of money and try and there is absolutely a But it does require a few of these steps. [MUSIC PLAYING]