When Dan Aykroyd and Harold Ramis wrote they were writing something good. At least, I'd bothered. But they could not have foreseen exactly a one-and-done project, as evidenced by a middle, and an end. Simpler times! not only to the film, but to the idea of a a movie that earned 10 times its budget at video sales, but it found success in completely toylines, and fruit punch. The film's theme song and it's taking every ounce of restraint I All of which is to say that Ghostbusters was so was met with a sequel - which isn't as good, but this list - as well as an eventual reboot, a of course, video games. Lots and lots of video in a just world. And it is our sacred duty I'll tell you up front that the "worst" end In fact, if this Twinkie represented the it would be a Twinkie 35 feet long, and weighing But why is that? Well, Ghostbusters is a damned translate into games. It's sharply written, natural humor generated from the interplay between turn Bill Murray into a faceless character sprite, other games, and you'll start to see the problem. Ghostbusters game from worst to best, based to angry, frustrated tears. We will not count any games, however, because a man has his dignity. I ain't afraid of no ghosts. I mean, I'm Ben. And I'm Peter from TripleJump, and this is Every #20: Extreme Ghostbusters (2001) Extreme Ghostbusters for the Game Boy Color I committed in a past life. I just wish I and never have to suffer through this again. from the nausea-inducing snapping of the camera, makes it look like you're urinating. The levels and the controls provide little assistance controlling the arthritis that's slowly You move so sluggishly that the developers in a position to review it, and levels as though they can't believe anyone bothered Egon on the mission introduction screen, but Rather than redraw it, they just crammed his There are several different playable characters, is this?" into a multiple-choice question. The actual Extreme Ghostbusters cartoon, so maybe material. Really, the main problem is the sense of manage to fit the cartridge into your Game Boy. Nobody ever will. But I'm guessing the ending the word &quot;cumgrapulation,&quot; and then #19: Ghostbusters II (1992) Please, indulge me for a moment: This was released of the Atari 2600 is putting it lightly. This and its widow remarried. 1992 wasn't just home that cared about video games, but that. Why Activision would release Ghostbusters it was beyond Activision as well; they developed and screamed, "What have we done??" into Salu Ltd. scooped it up to release only in Europe, There are only two levels, and somehow they both sees you descending beneath New York to collect thinking we were showing you footage of a Lego will never reach as long as you live - sees which is only a few feet above the ground, Neither level looks as difficult as it really is, without several dozen strokes of luck in a row. playtested extensively with the goal of being the It is technically a port of the Ghostbusters II so don't get too excited - but this one really is one down a few places. What can I say? Busting #18: Extreme Ghostbusters: PC of Extreme Ghostbusters? Maybe, but you certainly twelve weeks on the air before it was brought to Were you a fan of printing programs? No. Nobody be a fan of both - which you're not; let's be Creativity Centre is the game for you. Yes. Then again, it was a stretch to charge not split hairs. Its main draw was...well, the ability to create "greeting cards, door signs, etc." Right, so it had no main draw. Funnily even bring it up, burying it under similar titles Of course, once you've wrung every ounce of fun in celebration of your nan's 90th birthday, there I mean you'll be kept busy for a few minutes, The games consist of join the dots, and snap the CD in half. I admit that I #17: Extreme Ghostbusters: Zap the Ghosts! (2001) Don't you just love it when games include complete the colon, it would double as a plot summary. not mince words, Puzzle Bobble. Or Bust-A-Move, As in, that's all it is. It's not a similar Bobble's mechanics. It is Puzzle Bobble, but superficial Extreme Ghostbusters art layered over game that was whipped together in an afternoon. never as easy as it looks, though. And with tie-in were given an extremely tight deadline in order take advantage of fan interest. It's likely that something made in 2001...wait...2001? When did the Nobody even remembered Extreme Ghostbusters at Being Puzzle Bobble - because this is Puzzle here. Especially if your main concerns with was too much fun to play, and had a soundtrack a royalty-free music archive. There's an and that alone, dear viewer, is enough to #16: Ghostbusters II (1989) Commodore 64, MSX, ZX Spectrum look better than others, but none of them end level is unique, but ultimately they're In the first, you play as Ray Stantz, descending Along the way, he will have to find pieces of his that the Ghostbusters should have taken care before lowering their friend and colleague into As the first stage took place near it only makes sense that the second you shoot ghosts while the Statue of Liberty you also have limited ammunition, in the form of you need to move little people around to gather disappears after a few seconds. Managing them It's sort of like trying to juggle while driving terms was unacceptable and I could pick up The third level is a boss fight against Vigo, to keep a baby away from Peter MacNicol. Once to stomp around like an upset toddler who has and this is the video game at home. Sorry, #15: Ghostbusters (1984) Commodore 64, Master System, MSX, NES, PC that got a game, the worse that game turned out There are far bigger problems in the world than Still, we might as well talk about it. in its notorious NES incarnation, but it years earlier, with its "original" version This is absolutely a better game than what Some of the worst quirks of the NES game are sequence, and you don't need to keep dodging game lacks some of this version's features, such here as a key and a gate. Which is a bit on the actual genitalia. Or maybe they were? I don't game also added an irritating final boss fight as the computer versions had perfectly good Or don't, because it's poison. the Master System port is by far the best, and smoothing them out into something that the best version of an awful experience, sort of #14: Ghostbusters VR - Now Hiring (2017) Split into parts for the sole purpose of the game deserves, Ghostbusters VR is less a game and Batman have given us similar "experiences" guided tour of somebody's collection of mint you certainly aren't allowed to enjoy any of it. question. Is there any point to creating a VR game there a reason to give you a proton pack in VR The first chapter sees you walking around the makes you wish the voice of Patton Oswalt would six minutes, if you fall asleep. You and are confronted with a screen that invites which may hopefully indeed have some gameplay. It's somehow even less fun than walking around At least there you could walk around. motion sickness in VR, you'll get more out more interactivity than most people #13: The Real Ghostbusters (1993) This one is...a bit of a ride, so buckle up. licensing and legal nightmares. The first game until it left Japan, at which point it became third games featured Mickey Mouse in Japan, but which got Hugo in the third game, as punishment The fourth game kept Mickey for Japan but swapped character do not steal" Kid Klown...who himself still reeling from Hugo, was spared the assault. which I will ever be expected to speak - is but gave Garfield to Europe and Peter games with seven protagonists released under Only it's not finished! Because this game was from an Amiga game starringa character called this up, I'll...actually, I'll congratulate For a time, it was assumed that Kemco simply slapped new assets onto it, especially since Crazy Castle kerfuffle. Instead, P.P. Hammer less marvelous than P.P. Hammer - confirmed that Our review of this game? It's fine. It so it's better than seven other #12: Extreme Ghostbusters: PlayStation 2004? A show that only ran for about three months that even possible? At that point, just make it show would no longer even be kids by the time ever liked you, Extreme Ghostbusters! is technically a rail shooter, in the sense that where you stand for minutes on end, shooting at throw bogies at you. You shoot them, you wait, if it might be more fun to hold your breath until and if you are lucky a lightning storm fries It's playable, but it's never any fun and looking games, and it's a bit of a stretch the closest we can come to recommending it. Ultimate Invasion did at least do its vocabulary "best" or "most impressive," but the word actually the Extreme Ghostbusters games. I can say, with #11: Ghostbusters II (1990) Ghostbusters II for the NES received middling but it's safe to say that even those scores are just glad they didn't have to play yet another Ghostbusters II feels like half of an idea There are decent ideas and elements to be found, refined enough to be worth experiencing. The consist of walking from right to left and sound simple enough to be tedious, but which are The driving stages are overcluttered gauntlets jumps over instant-kill pits. The walking stages enemies. They're sliming me, stunning me, sorry. Point is, everything is too repetitive, It's nowhere near fast-paced enough to be ashuffle-and-squirt. Actually, don't call it that. as the Statue of Liberty. It looks different, but chiptune version of Jackie Wilson's "Higher and nod to the movie which, until this point, had Make it to the end, which you won't, and you'll that I mean a very brief cutscene plays of Vigo Happy New Year! #10: The Real Ghostbusters (1987) The animated Ghostbusters series had "The Real" it with The Ghost Busters, a 1975 sitcom in slapstick with a gorilla. Easy to confuse the two, animated version of that show as well, but that of the success of the unrelated Ghostbusters only might confuse children, but counted on doing without the space, creating the very confusion Anyway, The Real Ghostbusters - also known as expanding the burgeoning and it was an audience that really, really It was actually a modification of Meikyu I don't know what Meikyu Hunter G means, I'm pretty sure it translates to something like, a fun game, and The Real Ghostbusters probably it did, but at least it made some effort. enemy swarms, and a few Ghostbusters-specific allowing friends to play as Doe, Ray, and Egon. Anything to enjoy whatsoever. You can certainly do experiences than this. That was the same year as but would you rather play a game with one friend a sinkhole would open up beneath the arcade #9: Extreme Ghostbusters: Code Ecto-1 (2002) Game Boy Advance No! Sorry to have gotten your hopes up. but it still pales in comparison to all the fun it looks fine. It's true to the visual spirit playing for that alone. That's good, because You'd think the easiest thing to get right but Extreme Ghostbusters games seem dedicated to the screen scroll smoothly as you advance? That answer it anyway: Super Mario Bros. managed it was almost 20 years before Code Ecto-1, so there's snappiness of the camera also doesn't mesh at all making the entire experience feel like There is a bit of variety to the missions, driving sequences introduce each new location. along the way. Because as long as we're reminding we might as well remind them of the Also, you can choose between two characters, #8: Ghostbusters (2016) Right, up front, let's all agree that there is the 2016 Ghostbusters film. I know, you hated it. as did most of the dead ones. But it exists, the worst people on the internet into we don't have to talk about it beyond that; the ties into. That's an odd choice, but it does allow oh boy, does it not have many merits. Considering the world was more interested in being game is a tedious slog that involves shooting can take around 40 minutes each to complete. On reflect upon the course your life has taken, and that led you to this point. On the less-bright The game was considered one of the worst things that's saying something. It sunk developer they shut their doors only three days after the would rather flush their money down the toilet On the bright side, the soundtrack is let me just check here...Grant Kirkhope?! Oh, Grant. Between this and you signing up to compose #7: Ghostbusters: Sanctum of Slime (2011) Fans of the 2009 Ghostbusters game will And their fellow bus passengers will shush Sanctum of Slime. In fairness to It isn't a bad game, to be clear, but short and mindless twin-stick shooter that is a fun enough way to waste a few hours with AI of the first game, but without the writing the entire experience does indeed feel like One nice detail is that it rolls some aspects since the previous game relied mostly on But...well, look at it. Any material from in an arcadey shooter like this. That isn't its target audience is less clear. Ghostbusters and people who don't care about Ghostbusters might Its association with Ghostbusters comes down to squeeze just a little more cash out of. I'm not about to begin rapping - not great. Just a competent shooter that was And the fact that it made it this far up the list #6: Ghostbusters II (1989) Not to be confused with the game of the same name the version of Ghostbusters II developed not great, but it's surprisingly far from around, I'm trying to be positive, alright? game has successfully done: It made us Sorry. Like a Ghostbuster. Force of habit. You bulk of the experience will consist of answering specters, or ghosts, and then heading out to bust but fire indiscriminately and you'll destroy ghosts - which will impact the amount of money have experiments to conduct on the slime beneath from the inside. Which sounds far more obscene And...that's clearly an NES controller on the Did they pay for the rights to use that, or controller was used in the film, but it wasn't a so it's not as though Dynamix could fall back This is weird. Even weirder? The fact #5: Ghostbusters: The Video Game (2009) The DS version of 2009's Ghostbusters game as the other two versions do, but it's not bad. rather than a scaled-down, inferior version of the such as the fact that you play here whereas the console versions have you playing as sequences, which seem to exist as an apology but they work... which, sadly, counts as progress. you do in the console versions, but each of the with chatty NPCs lends a completely different innocents along the way. And we don't just it's up to you to guide them to safety, which actions feel, at least a bit, like they matter. of the Ghostbusters, which can be altered by It doesn't add as much depth as it way to make this version of the game stand out. only exists in DS form so that it could pull admirable effort made in turning this into a #4: Ghostbusters II (1990) It's not perfect, but we can all agree that is the most adorable thing mankind has ever Can you honestly tell me that you wouldn't Don't lie to me. Don't lie to yourself. consists of two characters. And you know what because that's the only true drawback the moving him around and firing proton streams a child you have to keep stopping from Plus, you rely on this other character to toss out You need to make sure he's in the correct otherwise the ghost gets away. Oh, also, he can And yet it's so far up the list! How can if there are mostly bad games in a series, bad so don't knot your knickers over it. Second, have AI it's a pretty fun hour or two of gameplay. interested in Ghostbusters games, but...wait, you If you're not, why did I even make this list for #3: "New" Ghostbusters II (1990) We've already seen what poor, unfortunate NES cart that had "Ghostbusters II" written on it. Actually, it's not even rumor. Have you been is that in Japan - and then two years later in fun. As in, something that a reasonable enjoying without having their sanity questioned. similar to what we just saw on the Game Boy but to the movie. Well, more faithful overall. and I am uncomfortable with that decision in ways half-Ernie Hudson / half-Smurf hybrid, though, makes this an experience worth...experiencing. but it's obviously very similar in terms with the playing area feeling less cramped less unintelligent. I would have said I really don't want to oversell it. The and area-specific ghosts such as this Which may or may not be meant to be this thing if you're in a piece of Ghostbusters media, #2: Ghostbusters (1990) Ghostbusters for the Mega Drive often licensed games and in discussions of is utter silliness. Pardon my harsh language, and it answers the question I've been Why can nobody make a fun game in which you answers with a resounding, "Hold my Ecto Cooler." cartoonish horror sprinkled throughout. It's It has a memorable art style, a and a choice of three characters with different Yes, that's only three characters. Winston It's not perfect, I admit. There are some pretty they may well eat through your continues. The Murray's, which looks like somebody exhumed at around two hours from tip to tail, but this all and a licensed one at that, there's very little we It's cute, engaging, and actually fun. is the Ghostbusters Wiki's attempt to find a place interesting, sometimes. It's just a good #1: Ghostbusters: The Video Game (2009) PlayStation Portable, Wii, Xbox 360, PC game would be one that involved the original scrapped third film, compositions and locations recreated setpieces? Oh, "everyone"? Right. Game can be split into two halves. As it's sincerely the best thing that any however, it's a far from perfect experience. to simply inhabit this world, exploring areas Easter Eggs. Using the group's gadgets and taking hammers home a great feeling of nostalgia. degrees of good. Bill Murray was singled out but he's still funny, and it's worth at the time of recording, so go easy on him. were allowed to play it. Ghostbusters: The Very rarely are you able to...y'know...just be a you're a rookie, learning the ropes. But from you are told what to do, and then you do it. an extremely cumbersome round of Simon Says. into two entries. The Wii, PlayStation 2, "stylized" version, with the Xbox 360, PlayStation As realistic as a game about middle-aged men differences are mainly cosmetic, but there are However, since both of them would have been at the to basically talk about the same game twice in versions to pick up, well, you are an adult and However, the realistic version did get a remaster Either way, though, it's tough to argue that any The Video Game doesn't hit all of the right notes, Now let's just see how that new film turns game tie-in. The Extreme Ghostbusters could