This is crazy! Brand new details about Flight 7 is quickly approaching; how long finally been solved. And the new design and its low Earth orbit Fuel Depot have My name is Felix. Welcome to What About It!? Let's dive right in! Starship Updates Things have been moving at light speed for We have a lot of Starship info to cover Flight 6 was truly remarkable, and while we SpaceX released some footage showing This includes a similar shot to the one we and Burn from the buoy, which gives us a was after reentry. Look at it! resilient Starship is as a vehicle. along the ship's heat shield that Just baked away. survived the re-entry, these tiles most likely We know SpaceX planned to stress this ship and this is likely a result of that. coming out over the past week has not only been bit of new information, and surprisingly, not Despite the massive Fireball we saw that appeared to only be from the methane to stay intact and afloat for quite a while. also a very good sign for the launchpad's safety. it's now clear that during a landing, if the results would not be nearly A fireball on its own does not do much damage. is the shockwave and a fire afterward. resilient as we hoped. We now know that this is of the ocean rather than back at the launch how important stage zero actually is. caused by a loss of communication to the covered the pad immediately after the road Numerous things could have caused the why we've seen so much work happening here. the easiest for SpaceX to solve, as they You can see it partly implemented in the lower cover the entire Tower with a protective sheet. would provide any protection, and the rest now it's clear that the tower really After teams were done looking over the launch mount, as it typically has For some reason, this launch caused more damage the mount appears to be a different condition compared to other launches. in reducing the number of repairs needed decreasing turnaround time and the number Hopefully, this will be the Of course, it's likely that in this case, flight so even if more extensive repair works Instead, the flight hardware and any possible but we'll discuss that in more detail. Permissions are a different thing. Technology As SpaceX learns more about what areas a rapid launch cadence, its second taking all the lessons learned and applying them. helicopter tours, you were able to how quickly this pad is coming along. flight! It's unforgettable and worth every This new flyover gave us a clear view of has come, and it's clearly come a long way. as much of the digging appears to have been put been placing even more piles into the ground. so deep, which is likely why excavation is It's still a mystery how deep this flame trench has been dug deeper is visible, and it will We can also see that the Commodities Trench, which completion, with most of it being filled in. we can see quite a bit of One obvious thing to note is how clean the flyovers, and that's for a couple of reasons. we're missing a crane. Where'd it go? use out of the CC8800-1 crane which they had meaning they may even be ahead of Looking at their filing with the FAA, late January of next year. Of course, it's possible that SpaceX just realized thought they did and can instead use some of their As the tower itself gets closer to completion, to roll the Chopsticks and the Ship Quick site, where they're currently undergoing The tower looks well fleshed out, and Chopsticks has arrived, only detail work is left. is that they've completed the installation of to new sections to begin further installation Here, you can see quite a large box that be wondering why we didn't see this elsewhere, If you look towards the highway, you can see the rolls in its ships and boosters. The track that every ship and booster takes to this area. Extra reinforcement is required to weight of the prototypes can transfer through the The tank farm has also begun to expand, with installed next to the first, which we Overall, we've just seen quite a this launch pad entering service, and even launch site at Sanchez, so let's head over there. and there are over 2 million returning Help us improve the channel even further by button so you don't miss our updates! massive amount of extra content! new Starbase photo galleries including all and ground photos. More than 400 posts in the past week. Insights, chats with me, you name it. shop.whataboutit.space to buy a picture for your directly! Thank you so much! You Rock! Now, back Quite a bit of work has been done on the overall And it looks so way different than the old one. construction at Pad A, and there's a good reason Happens to the best. That's how you learn. sections were missing between them, and SpaceX We can also see that they've begun staging water-cooled launch deck closer to the mount likely making quick work on the internals. continuing nicely, and it appears they may of the scaffolding have now been removed. in this picture. I should have said there is a lack of something ship from the rocket garden. Where did it go? high Bay for preparations for its flight! as instead of moving there to prepare it for what so that it could join its sibling ship 27 and this mystery vehicle was sliced apart That's it. With it, all hopes for a or a Unicorn barn have vanished. ship meet its end in such an unceremonious way. over what could have been, SpaceX will for many more prototypes, some of You never know! Rest in SpaceX just needs more space, up production of the ships and boosters. the mega bay, booster 16 has now received its aft one sports the upgraded header tank design, likely More thrust, more power, more oomph. booster 16, which marks the completion of this SpaceX will now begin constructing the are produced separately before being Of course, this booster isn't the only one discussing incredible news regarding the lunar will take priority in the coming months. booster to fly on flight 7 and It's Black Friday, and there's one deal you talk a lot about staying safe online... are you it's easier than ever to boost your Surfshark is an easy, no-hassle solution to Wondering why you need a VPN? Simple. blocking prying eyes and shielding you from data snoopers who try to access your info. Don't The best part? Surfshark requires minimal protecting you from sneaky threats Don't know what those are? Don't worry Ever worried about using public wifi? Surfshark's start with proxy emails and instant alerts if into a "Mission: Possible" this Black Friday. entire household. Your family, your devices So, for a limited time, Go to months of Surfshark at an unbeatable price!. protect your digital life with With SpaceX pushing to increase the will be working on this booster quite a bit, So that's one-half of flight And what about the most important question? How Let's check out the hardware first. receiving its final touches. this ship's only remaining requirement is must be properly installed. Let's get it done! into the Bay shortly before flight 6, so And these engines do have a different connection to be a bit more careful when working with these. factor for Flight Seven's launch date, but We know this, as shortly after flight 6, Musk Starship program, stating that they will attempt if successful, attempting a catch on flight 8. you have it, heard it here first. a payload with it, and I don't just mean a banana Alright. So, what about the timeline? When launch? between an orbital and a suborbital it's unlikely we'll see it within a month. and what they've already proven, they can do and Thanks to a talk by Kathy Lueders, the general plans to recover a ship within the next 6 months. Given that getting approval to re-enter be needed for a catch attempt, will likely we should see flight 7 take off long before that. end of the year is unfortunately unlikely. According to documents filed by NASA to the January 11th for Flight 7. We know this because which is supposed to do thermal imaging of peak was done because NASA needs a few flights the plane. The document also confirms that Imaging of re-entry is supposed to happen That's simply not enough time to complete will be calibrated at night, which makes as seen on all flights before flight 6, an One thing to keep in mind is that these so this timeline might have changed. our calendar once more! Flight 6 took place on 11th would put 53 days between the two launches. first block 2 launch, I'd say that this is fast! the timelines for certain Milestones SpaceX wants While that is all great, we've also seen more It all came up during the Flight 6 livestream Given how close SpaceX's deadline of 2026 to these renders are likely very close to You can see that SpaceX has indeed from the outside of the vehicle. thanks to a small clip SpaceX showed during in the background that lacked solar panels. It's also clear that there are some and it is possible that these cutouts are spaces it's just as likely that this Lander could earlier stays planned for the beginning. We can also see that they have returned as seen on the earlier versions, while keeping We still have very little information about such as whether they are derived from the Draco The other obvious thing that stands the top. While this may not be the most I can promise you the views out of these will be SpaceX also shared this incredible render of what Surprisingly, this wasn't even the biggest lunar impressive most of the information contained in Until NASA decided to share that they are now Origin based on their human Lander designs. This means we got yet another amazing a trio of pressurized Rovers down to the lunar possible lunar cargo starship will look like. with the crewed lander, the main difference as a crane to lower payloads to the surface. will be a game changer. However, as powerful as a launch, as by the time it reaches Earth's orbit, This is why orbital refueling Starship program but necessary to make it work. as full reusability, which is why we were so happy SpaceX and NASA also shared a render of what SpaceX plans on performing the first demonstration pretty close to what it will look like in the end. hooked up to a fuel depot, which will then The render also shows that the Starship locations for stability, which had Clearly, quite a bit of thought has been put to its final design as well. I'm wondering if the future. SpaceX 7-Eleven! Fuel up and get This vehicle is key to Starship open the solar be. Once orbital refueling is achievable, the tyranny of the rocket equation here on That's it for today! Remember to smash that like the Algorithm! And this is how you can help us for space nerd store! A new Raptor Design and our epic are both up! The perfect Christmas gift! Link is now! And if you want to train your space IQ even journey! Thank you very much for watching,