- Hi, in this session at the triads that form and then we're going to work to look at a melody that In other words, a melody that so the whole thing sounds good. We've done a bit of this in earlier grades and if you've come to this afresh you might want to look back at some of the grades one to five material just to work out what's But I'm going to start with and we'll move on fairly quickly to see how we're going from working with the triads to actually writing some harmony which is where music starts So let's work in the key of C major and here's a stave. And in order to find the I'm going to begin by So C, D, E, F, G, A, B. Now I could write C at the top in order to complete the scale but from I'll end up with the same as I've got at the C at the bottom. So I don't particularly need that top note to work out the triads. Now what I do in order to put the third note and the fifth note above So if C is the first note, here's C. Well obviously E is a third above C and the fifth above C is G. So that's the first triad. Above D I'm going to do the same thing. So a third above D is F and a fifth above D is A. So I've got what I call a On to the next note which is E, a third above is G and a fifth above E is B. So I have a root which is E, a third which is G and a fifth which is B. Let's carry on. So the next one's F, A, C. Then I have G, B, D and then we have A, C, E and B, D, F. And as I said before if I I'd have C, E, G which is just which is why I don't need to repeat it. When it comes to labelling these triads, the convention is to do So if you see Roman numerals, you know you're talking First degree of the scale, number one. Second degree of the scale, number two. The third one, number number five, number six and number seven. So now we've got the triads Now we're going to make a because underneath these in the key of C major and how we can use these triads some chords that fit with that melody. Now obviously you can do this You could fiddle about at and try and find a chord that you think you like the But you'll see that there's Let's begin straightaway with Now the first note of this melody is C. So what we've got to do is to And you'll find that there'll with any given note in them. How does that work? Well C is the root of chord I. C is the third of chord VI. And C is the fifth of chord IV. So that's telling me that if I'm trying to harmonise the note or I could use chord IV They'll always sound good. They'll always sound because C is a member But C is not in these other chords. So if you wanted to choose it wouldn't sound so good because there is no C in chord VII. So let's have a think about this. If I've got this first note C, that's the C in the melody. Let me just take this for the time being. It doesn't matter which If I play the triad for chord you can hear that that Because C is at the bottom If I decided to go for a chord IV, here's the triad for IV, F, A and C and I've got C in the that that sounds good. So I sounds good. IV sounds good and we also said Well there's chord VI, A, C and E and you can hear that So I, IV, VI, those three chords all fit. However let's go for chord VII. If I put chord VII down, B, D, F, then I put C on the top, you can immediately hear that because C is not a member of chord VII. I'm not saying you should never use it, you may like the sound of that but in conventional harmony because C doesn't belong to any So whenever you're harmonising a note, you'll always find three and you have to make your choice. Now you'll notice certain for example, chords I, IV and V in a major key are always major chords. Chords II, III and VI are minor chords. Chord VII is slightly unusual because it's a diminished chord. So you may think, &quot;Well actually, &quot;at this particular point in the piece &quot;I'd like to use a major chord,&quot; or &quot;I'd like to use a minor chord.&quot; In the case of I, IV and VI I and IV are major chords, So you may decide that the mood dictates that you want to have a that might be one of the issues. The reason why I'm going to select chord I for this first note is of a piece of music in C major. So it's the clearest thing to do. If I use chord I, I'm that my piece of music If I use chord IV, F, A, C and I begin my piece of it may sound like a chord IV in C major but it might also sound because if you think of the scale of F major is F. And if I build chord So if it was the very first I might be tempted to to a piece of music in F major. Or if I use chord VI, A, C and E is obviously chord VI in C major. But it's also chord I in A minor. So if this was the first thing I heard I might be tempted to think that I'm hearing a piece So I want to make the And that's why I've in C major for my first chord. So here it is. There's the first note C and here's the chord C, E and G. Now what we're going to do in the case of this particular piece is we're going to write four-part harmony. In other words, we've in grades one to five soprano, alto, tenor, bass. So we're going to think in those terms. And the first thing you might decide is, &quot;Well, how do we write in four-parts &quot;when we've only got three notes?&quot; No harm in using one of as long as we using So for example, in the first chord I could decide I'm going G in the tenor and E in the alto part. So I've used these note C, E and G, C top and bottom, E in So I've taken this basic and I've used those three notes and I've just spread them out a bit. So that's the first but there's no reason to say that chord in some other way. I can take the notes of chord I and I can organise them like this or like this or like this or like this or like this. They're all different I'm still using those notes C, E and G. So that's given us an which there isn't too much because it's the first in the key of C major. So chord I makes sense. Okay, let's move on now to the next chord because we have a G in the melody and we can play the We can look at which three Well G is obviously the root of a chord V, G's also the middle of chord III and G is also the top of chord I. Now I might at this point mention that there's a kind of Chords I, IV and V are what They're the ones that are Chords II, III and VI are what In the case of a major key you'll notice the primary I, IV and V. The secondary triads are the Chord VII is a diminished chord which some people think just It's certainly a little bit uncomfortable, so generally speaking, VII is probably worth avoiding. The next least likely chord that gets used in the hierarchy of things is chord III. There's nothing wrong it's just an it's rather unusual. So VII is perhaps the least and III is the next chord I'm not dismissing it at all and there's some wonderful opportunities to use the chord III. But it's not going to be So we're looking at a note and G is in chord III so maybe for the time being But we could decide that for a chord V or a chord I. Well what would that sound like? Here's a G. If I put chord V under it, If I put chord I under it, that So I could say, well, I've so do I want to use another or might it be a better That would be perfectly logical. Another solution, just to point this out, is that we could use chord I again but we could use it in Now let me explain what I mean by that. Just for argument's sake we'll do this so we can explore this possibility. I'm going to choose for Now what this means is of chord I, C, E and G. If C is the lowest sounding note, in other words, it's the then I say I'm using and I call that chord Ia. If I just call it I, I If I use the note C, E, G E is in the bass then I say I'm using chord I in first If I use chord I and I put G in the bass then I say I'm using chord and I call it Ic. I have to say that second inversion is you're going to meet. You will meet it but So you're much more likely to live in a world of root position chords, &quot;a&quot; chords and first So for argument's sake here let's use Ib and just work out what Well it's going to have an E in the bass otherwise it's not going to Let's maybe repeat the G in the tenor and drop down to a C in the alto part. So you can see I've used but I've gone into first and I've just kind of So the first chord sounds like this and the second chord sounds like this and you can hear there's a progression. It's the same chord, it's still chord I, but because it's gone into first inversion there's a progression. Okay let's move on to the next one. Here's an A. Now remember how this works. A is going to be the root of one chord, it's going to be the and it's going to be the Let's see if we can work A, you'll notice, is the root of chord VI. A is also the third of chord IV and A is also the fifth of chord II. You might be already establishing that there's a pattern here. Do you see if it's the root of this chord it will be the third of the and it will be the fifth of the chord that's two behind that. So if it's the root of VI, you know it's going to be the third of IV and it's going to be the fifth of II. If it's the root of VII and it will be the fifth of III. You just go back two chords each time to find the next chord. It just speeds up the process. So this could be chord VI, it could be chord IV or And really, within reason, it and you may just decide to play with the sound of those I've got A at the top there. if I put chord VI it sounds like this. VI of course is a minor chord. If I use chord IV, that's If I use chord II, that's So you've got three different and you have to try and work out, not only what that sounds like, but what it sounds like as a progression from the previous chord. And again you can just sit For argument's sake, I'm It's not the only option but So here's chord IV, F, A and C. I think at the moment I'm going to use it in its root position. So it's a IVa chord and in the bass if I'm going So there's an F and let's just see what we're going to do So say we have an F in the alto part and a C in the tenor part then we've used these notes F, A, C and we've spread that Well it's getting quite exciting now. We're beginning to put How do the first three chords progress? Here's chord I, followed by Ib, followed by chord IV. It sounds quite good doesn't it? Now let's move on to the fourth beat. I've purposely just made this by putting these two quavers in. One temptation is to say, for the G and then I'll need but that would make the rate If we have one chord on this quaver then another chord on the next quaver, the chords are going to change very quick and that could actually sound in the music. It's possible that the to a chord, it's also what we call inessential notes and we talked about those on grade five theory. We talked about passing notes, notes that pass by step between So in other words the G could have a chord and this E could have a chord and this F just passes by, So we could just call that a passing note. We could also have other forms of what we call inessential A lower auxiliary note is simply when I have a note that has a chord and then I go down a note and come back to the previous note again. So this could have a chord that could just be a lower auxiliary note and this could come back to the chord. Or I could go C, D, C and in that case the D would so the C would have a chord, the D would just go up one and we come back to C that would be an auxiliary note. I can also have things Where say I have a D followed by a C, the D has a chord, could be this chord, and the C has a chord, But then if I do this, you can hear that this C So the first C is an anticipatory note. So these notes could be harmony notes because they have a chord or some of them might passing notes, auxiliary I'm going to suggest for a and that the F is a passing note, it's just passing between the G and the E. So let's find a chord that fits the G. Let's play that little trick again that we did a few moments ago. G is the root of chord V. Go back two chords, then you find G is the third of chord III. Go back two chords and you find that G is So the options for this Well, we've had two chord I's, so maybe we don't want to go there again. We said that chord III to be used after chord VII. So maybe the most obvious thing to do is to go for a chord V. So let's do that. Let's put G in the bass So I'm going to use chord V V in root position. And then let's just get some other notes that belong to the chords I've got G in the bass and and D in the alto. Okay, now then let's Here's an E. So E is what's at the root of chord III. E is the middle of chord I, it's the third of chord I. And E is the fifth of chord VI. It's possible that I'm of my first phrase. Maybe this piece of music has got a couple of two-bar phrases. Which means I also need to think about something called a cadence. Remember we talked about cadences again in grade five theory. A perfect cadence is followed by chord I. A plagal cadence is chord An imperfect cadence is It's normally, I to V, II to V or IV to V. And an interrupted cadence, which you didn't need goes chord V followed by chord VI. Let's just do those again. Perfect cadence is V to I. V-I, you can hear it, it's the end of something, A plagal cadence is IV to I, IV to I. An imperfect cadence is something to V and it's normally I to V. Here it comes, I to V. Or it's IV to V or it's II to V. And an interrupted cadence is V to VI. V-VI. And previously we suggested and the plagal cadence might be cadences that you regard as full stop cadences. They're the end of something. Perfect cadence, feels Plagal cadence, we've been An imperfect cadence of musical question mark. We've finished something No, sorry, I said a question mark more like a musical comma. So in other words we're that we're not completely at the end. So I to V, or IV to V or II to V. They feel more like musical commas. Now the question mark is You get a chord V and then by a chord I, in which But when you get V and oh, that's a little bit So that feels more like a sort of musical question mark if you like. But when we come to the end of a phrase we're trying to use We've had chord V there then we're going to Is that going to work? Oh yes, E belongs to chord So there's no reason because why we couldn't now decide that instead of having to have a chord on every single beat of the bar we're going to have a moment and just have a chord I. C, E and G, E is in that chord, G is in that chord. So that's actually rather useful isn't it? So I could do something maybe have a a semibreve and I could arrange the chord like this. So I've got a C, another C in the alto, E at the top, G in the tenor. And then I could just move to a slightly different by doing something like this. I could repeat the C in the So I've now got a first So let's now move on to the second phrase and see if we can Now the first thing you might notice about the beginning of we've got another pair of quavers and we had some quavers And we said that we didn't really want to have a chord on each quaver. It's always perfectly possible but if I have a chord on each quaver, it's going to sound a little bit hassled. If I'd done a chord on I'd have got something like this. It's very fast moving for the harmony. Much smoother to do what we did because you just hear between these two melody notes. But the chords are not moving too quickly. So sometimes that's the answer when you see quavers in a melodic line to wonder if each of those or really whether you might be dealing with one of these inessential notes. So if you see quavers or even something more you might just consider the possibility that something is an inessential note. Now if we look at this little corner at the beginning of the second phrase we have a note, it goes down one and then it comes back Now that suggests that this G could be what we call a lower auxiliary note. And the important thing is the passing notes, the auxiliary notes, the anticipatory notes, those notes do not need because they're inessential. They're not essential to the chord. That's why we call them inessential notes. So I could find a chord and a chord that fits with this A it could be the same chord or I could have one chord for this A and a different chord for this A. That doesn't matter. But I can treat this G as So let's go about it in that sort of way and see where we get to. So we're looking for a Now A is the root of chord VI. Let's play the trick we played earlier, skip back two chords, we find that A is the middle of chord IV, it's the third of chord IV. Slip back two chords again at the top of chord II, So we could go for a Now just to make life interesting, instead of using the same chord twice, maybe we could use two of those chords. So out of the VI or the IV or the II, well, we could use any For that for the moment and start with a chord IV and move on to a chord II. Okay, so that's going to and it's going to give me a D in the bass for the next chord. Then I just need to work out some other notes that to fill in the missing parts. So if I've got chord IV, F, A, C, I've got an F in the bass, I've got an A at the top but I'm going to need a So maybe I could put and maybe I'll just double up the F in the alto part for now. So that's given me a chord IV And I'm going to go onto a chord II. So what do I need in chord II? D, F and A. Well, we have a D at the bottom, we've got an A at the top, so let's put an F in the alto part, then we've taken care of that missing note and, well, maybe just double Now have a little listen to that progression going from IV to II with the lower auxiliary note. See how that works? And you can see, you can hear that the G That G doesn't actually doesn't belong to the chord II either but the to A's are harmony notes. This A belongs to this chord IV, this A belongs to that chord II. So it's just quite as a lower auxiliary note. Now say I decided to harmonise this G with a chord of its own. So I could treat this as a harmony note, I could have done something like, I could have gone IV-V-II. But can you hear that it To use that as opposed to. Which just kind of a little bit more comfortably. Okay, let's go on and see And just to show you other possibilities, let's look at this G and I've got an idea There's G, G is the root of chord V, so therefore it must be and it must be the fifth of chord I. Well I'm going to suggest we use chord I. We've had a I and we've had a Ib, I'm going to suggest we Now then, if we're going to use Ic, that means we're going to but we have to put G in the bass. Let's just do that for a moment. And I should say at this point these &quot;c&quot; chords are quite rare. They tend to belong to and if you have a Ic chord it's usually followed by a chord V. Now you'll hear why this is a minute. If I play a chord Ic. There's a chord Ic you can C, E and G from chord I but it's got the fifth in the bass. So there's my Ic. You might be able to hear as stable as a chord C, E, G, with C in the bass. It's not quite as stable as a Ib chord where you have C, E, G but the third in the bass. Here's the Ic chord, slightly less stable, and can you feel that it's kind of pulling in a particular direction. So when I have a Ic chord it You can feel that, can't you. There's a kind of tension and it pulls me onto a chord V. So quite often you'll find it will be followed by a chord V. Here's Ic followed by V. It might then stop there, it might be some kind It just goes Ic to V and that or it might go Ic, resolve on to V and then it might finish on a chord Ia. So those are possibilities for a Ic, that we go Ic to V or we go step further, go Ic, to V to I. And the other most common this &quot;c&quot; chord is a IVc. When you have something like this. Here's IVc in C major, chord IV is F, A and C. So if I organise that I'll have a IVc chord, that's what IVc sounds like. And that has a pull on to this. So when you write a chord IVc, IVc quite often pulls you onto chord I, because I've now got the note C, E and G. Can you hear how that works? Here's the IVc and it's pulling me towards chord I. And those to be honest of second inversion chords. Ic that's followed by V or IVc that's followed by I. I'm not saying you won't meet because you may well. But they'll be far less common So I just wanted to use to show the possibility of dealing with a second inversion chord. There's no reason why you or a chord III. Remember we said that chord So that might have been than a chord V. But a chord Ic is another Now you may be asking, &quot;Well, okay, &quot;well you've used a chord Ic, &quot;but you didn't use Ic back here. &quot;You used I there, I there, Ib there. &quot;So why use Ic at this point?&quot; Well, because we are and remember what I said a moment ago that Ic is often followed by V and that sometimes it goes Ic to V and then it goes on to I. Well, if it's possible by going Ic, V, I, that would so if you're ever looking at the last three chords of something and you think well by going V followed by I, then it's possible that it might go Ic followed That will not work in every So I've just gone for the Ic there and I'm rather hoping that by going Ic to V at least and Let's see if we've got any Well, if we're going to use chord V next then V is G, B and D. Well you might think because actually the note Well A does not belong to chord V does it. G, B and D there's no A in there at all. So maybe the theory that I've just suggested But all is not lost because it's possible that this A is a passing note. Can you see it's passing by step between G and the B that follows it. So this could be a passing note. In which case I'm looking for a chord that harmonises with a B. Let's just go back to G, B and D, aha. So all is well because and I can treat the A as a passing note. Let's just do that. And then I want to say If we're going to have a chord V then we need G in the bass. We had this G in the bass, so we could simply repeat that G or just to make life a I could drop the G to an octave below. So let's just do that for now, just to make life a little We better just put some notes that came previously. So there it goes. Chord I remember is C, E, G. So I've got a C in the tenor, I've got an E in the alto and I've got two G's with the So that's used up all of Now let's move on and do and I'm going to suggest That maybe we do this. Now you might be thinking, because chord V is G, B and D and we've just used an F in the alto. So what have I done there? I've added an F on the top of chord V. What the his means is I now and I have a seventh. And we'll come back and about seventh chords in But it's perfectly possible You take the basic triad with its root, its third and its fifth And I have to say, that's when you're dealing with a chord V. It's also very possible that situation when you that you might have D, to make number II into a seventh chord. But V7 is the most common and the next most common is II7. You can have a seventh on any other chord but it's rather less likely. So just so we can see let's instead of just using You see how I managed to in Roman numerals and alongside it just to make in the alto because this Okay, now you'll notice you might now be looking at it saying, &quot;Well, that's all very well &quot;but you've got two G's in the chord, &quot;you've got the B here, &quot;but where's the D? &quot;There's no D.&quot; Well, actually it's to leave out the fifth of a triad. Most of the time it will be there but it's not absolutely essential, especially when you get into you definitely need a root, you definitely need a third and you definitely need a seventh otherwise it won't be a seventh chord but the fifth is the note So just to show that that's possible, I've done that here. So you can begin to see how this all but now belongs to chord V7. There's the G, the B is here, remember, I decided I'm not going to and I've got the F, the Just before we move on to the last bar, another quick word We've now used a passing note here and we also used a passing note back here. Now you might be reflecting well, isn't there a slight difference. At one level there isn't a difference. This is going by step isn't it? I had a G here, the A on to the B so that A between the G and the B. Back here I had a the F moves by step on to the E, so it's the passing note between G and F. But there is one difference. Back here the G is on the and the F gets tucked in on It's on the last half So the G is a harmony note, the F is an inessential the G comes on the beat and Whereas here it's the other way around. The A comes on the beat followed by the B on the half beat later. So the B is the harmony note and the A is the inessential note. Now we have to just define When this harmony note and the F comes in as a passing we can say it's an It's not accented, it just comes after, it's tucked in after. But if the passing note comes on the beat then we have to say it's and it's always stronger. Accented passing notes are always stronger than unaccented passing notes. So listen to this one again. Here's the unaccented passing note and this is the accented passing note. You can hear that that's quite strong. The accented passing note. So going from the previous chord, as opposed to this one the unaccented passing The later one. So an accented passing note but it does give you if things are moving by step maybe you've got a quaver that one of those quavers It's then just a question of deciding whether it's an accented passing note or an unaccented passing note. Okay let's see if we Well, we said that we know that goes Ic to V to I. In this case it might be Ic, V7 to I. So we could now simply in the last bar. That would be fine, wouldn't it? Could we do anything a little bit more interesting than that? Well how about this other second inversion that I was talking about a moment ago. I said that the other one that's most likely to be used is a IVc. So maybe we could use a IVc and follow that with a I. Let's see if that works. I've got two C's in the melody. Well, C is the fifth of a chord IV and C is obviously the root of a chord I so it's possible, isn't where we end up with a C in the bass. Either I can have a semibreve C or I can write two minims, that's okay. And then maybe I could and an A in the tenor and then we could just use So all these notes belong to chord IV, I've got F, A and two C's. But because I've put the C in the bass, the fifth in the bass, this is now chord IVc and I'm using a chord I, C, E and G. I've got C in the bass and I've got an E in the alto So what does that sound like? Let's think about the Here's the IVc followed by the I. Now let's look at this goes like this. Ic, V7, IVc and then chord I. So really what I'm trying how we would go from forming the triads in the key of the piece of and then how do we convert that are going to fit that melody. And we've seen that we've a We've always got three chords and at first you may just want to try and sit at a keyboard where you could find those chords and just work out the sound of the chords and think which one sounds You might think about this business of major chords and minor chords. You might certainly think for the time being because that's a slightly awkward customer and we'll come back to that You might just think about because it's less likely to be used but after that you're that's basically root position chords with an occasional first And you might just think about like the Ic-V or the Ic-V-I or in this case we've just by going Ic and instead and then we slipped in I mean that's quite a but it's just there to Now what does this thing now we've written it. Here it is. So it sounds quite But you can see how those You can also see that we've in the rate of chord change. And the frequency of chord change is what we call the harmonic rhythm. And basically in this that most of the harmonic We have a chord on the first crotchet, another on the second crotchet, another on the third crotchet, another on the fourth crotchet. We've got the same thing here. There's one chord for every This bar the harmonic rhythm slows down as it often does for cadences and in fact here we've just got one chord that fills up the whole bar. So the harmonic rhythm there's gone from crotchets to a semibreve. In the last bar the into two minims so you might to slow down at cadence That's one thing that quite often happens. Then after that you can see we've got a kind of balance of chords. We might expect to have than anything else, I, IV, and V, I, I, IV, V, I, IV. Well, there's our first back to I, back to V, So all but one chord are primary chords. And to make it less boring, we've had the odd inversion so Ib there, a Ic there, a IVc there. So we're not always in root position. And then we've just got that We could go a bit further, by saying is there any opportunity for any other inessential notes. For example, when you look we go from C to E. Well, we could slip in a C, D, E Or we could even put one on the alto. E, D, C Could be like that, couldn't it, but just to make life let's slip a passing note into the bass. And you can see it's an it's coming between the beats. It's coming after this beat. But it just gives us a instead of just having this. We've now got. So whenever you've got a part you might think is there an opportunity to slip in a passing note? If you've got a note that's repeated, you might consider the possibility of an upper or lower auxiliary note. So for example, the next The alto here, how about I between the F and the D. That would make life a bit I could decide I'm going to do in the alto there. Sometimes these things you'll have to decide in In this case I could in the bass here at the same time as I've got a lower in the soprano part. So that's another possibility, isn't it? So just by adding those I've now got this. And it just spruces So I hope you can see how as a first step in Good luck as you set about It's great fun and deeply