- Bill Whalen - Post earlier this month. Victor, the headline: Under Assault." And the 10 of them are, and free expression. Two, weaponization of justice. the media Democratic fusion. Five, the erosion of the military. Seven, sexes. That's debt is a construct. And ten, universities. most relevant to our audience here. Here's what to create a brief safe space in which graduates history of the United States and the ways be rebuilt by the properly trained experts - Victor Davis Hanson - student here in the PhD program in classical only center writer, conservative student. All the when we were talking about Achilles or we were history in Greek or Tacitus and Latin or writing were men of the left, but they didn't feel inductive. We're going to teach you the skills, wish you would probably have our worldview, but rational way to come to an inductive and that I went to a classroom in Stanford and I gave two and I want all of you to You would be kicked out and you would be that climate change is completely manmade. of the planet like it. We have to take there's not going to be any objection at all. On proselytizing Christianity, but you said, I to heat up the planet, nor do I believe that believe we can contribute to it. I think I can tell you that from personal experience - Bill Whalen - fellow classist like yourself. His name is Dan L. of Classics at universities. This seems to be a you do not learn about the roots of democracy. about the roots of the republic. You also don't very openly critical of their leaders, how they engaged in free speech as a classicist. What does - Victor Davis Hanson - years ago called Who Killed Homer. And I predicted a discipline would be destroyed in 50 years. but also it was a narrow academic and people were The philologists were not trying to make their three decades ago, people were using a jargon. In instead of studying the cult of Aphrodite in Asia manhood. And it was all from an ideological point see where this was going to go. In the case of Mr. I've been a frequent target of his criticism. He was a Princeton undergraduate. But what was an immigrant student who was given a scholarship very well under a meritocratic system. Then he study Classics and he was trained by some of the controversial now, but a great class. So, then then he got almost immediately something he got a tenure-track job at Princeton. That six people for every one job. And so what does tenured and he's got this exalted position and he an immigrant, then he turns on the whole And by the way, all of you poor people out there in Classics, I'm going to ensure you're never blow up the field now that I'm on top of it. Lit because they'll never fire me. And that was it is... if you destroy the teaching of there's no way you're ever going to transmit you need these experts from time to time, refigure they find new inscriptions, they find Palimpsests of Greek. And this is well beside the value that if a person takes Greek and Latin and and the composition, they are innately better they speak better, and they enjoy literature it has practical ramifications and value - Bill Whalen - people to tell me who Rishi Sunak is. His hand - Student #1 - He's the prime Minister Of Britain. - Victor Davis Hanson - - Student #1 - prime minister. And he gave me a comb. - Victor Davis Hanson - - Bill Whalen - And what is Mr. Sunak's connection to Stanford. - Student #1 - Forgive me. He got his MBA here, although - Bill Whalen - - Dr. Raj - when he to remember him, but my colleagues and nobody remembered him until the - Student #1 - running for Prime Minister saying, I can make Britain seem like a startup brilliant to have these brilliant professors at and none of those professors remembered him. - Bill Whalen - - Victor Davis Hanson - - Bill Whalen - to work with? Okay, I mentioned Rishi Sunak for Britain was going through considerable political they blazed through three prime ministers, now currently holding the job. He is a Stanford old as well. Very interesting. He's a Tory. his advocating to become the prime Minister, which those of you are familiar in but then you try to build a green area one. So the urbanites kind of field are close to So, you don't have, like if you fly into you come into Dulles Airport, the Brits want to and here's what he wrote, what he answered, quote, the green belt if we allow left-wing agitators to and our fundamental values? Whether it's pulling school curriculum with anti-British propaganda or use words like man, woman, or mother without being the aggressors. We have zero interest in fighting end the brainwashing, the vandalism, and the Sunak's Twitter account, excuse his X account, to become prime minister: "Let's restore trust, question Victor, how do you deal with wokeism having a culture war? He thinks you could do - Victor Davis Hanson - a common agreement that whatever your differences there's obviously people in Eastern Europe they had the right to take down the Stalin, the history, it seems to me that, I'll give world. I came to the Hoover Tower where my what happened to (Father) Junipero Serra Plaza. I it's been renamed. And I said, what happened? Boulevard? And he said, well, he whipped was in chronic ill health. He walked the length He tried as in the time to be enlightened as he saw being enlightened. But he did some very But then the thing that's very interesting nobody wants to change Junipero Serra Boulevard. by doing it with a plaza. So, if you're going questions. If you want to go to full woke, it here's Stanford University, it's a great tycoon. He was a man of action. He had flaws. was devoted to learning. They spent their fortune you could say that Leland Stanford wrote letters He said it was apparel. We have to take people at is that no one ever says we have to rename So, what woke does is it says to, we are going to or do the whole woke trip that would either not going to talk about Yale's ancestry, we're but we're going to go over here and topple we're woke. And that's historically in tune used for contemporary political purposes. that no present generation owns the past back in the past and erase the entire cargo and And you don't know what the value is and what yourself up as judge, jury and executioner it's not melodrama, it's tragedy. So it's a rich generations. And so, there's an arrogance to It's a very arrogant idea and it claims the I'd say is that everything in education is It's a zero sum game. So, if you spend a lot equity, inclusion, monitoring, and wokeness, that you have people that are looking at people that are making sure that on hiring You're looking at promotion and tenure on not productive. And why? What do I mean? Are they they're monitoring and adjudicating and it's not They had commissars in almost every company size and strategy were not just based on military and they were incompetent. And the first 12 the war. And what did Stalin do? He got rid of the this is too inefficient. And so what we're but we're spending time and capital. And yet them and they come, if I speak at a university they'll say things like, well, wasn't And you say, yes, but let's have a conversation you please tell me what the battle of Guadalcanal difference between a B-29 and a B-17? Nothing. Can Can you tell me what FDR's Four Freedoms were? disappeared from the college curriculum and it has years adjudicating what is good knowledge and what make those distinctions other than an ideology combination is arrogance and ignorance. So, it's of students that are highly opinionated, the tools because they haven't had that classical teachers who are rebelling against the system science, mathematics. And then they said, you not teach that. So they really shortchanged as good stewards of knowledge, they didn't pass arbitrary decision that they were going to pander - Bill Whalen - and fear not you'll be first. The question Has the fever broke? To use a Victorianism. look at Netflix, Disney, Warner Brothers, they equity, inclusiveness executives. If you look at more DEI officials are being fired than non - Victor Davis Hanson - close to peak woke. Anything that can't go on... I unsustainable if we want the current lifestyle, and it was based on meritocracy. And if you're be everything from requiring pilots in training the pilot training based on their superficial that's across the board, it won't be sustainable. I think we're already seeing it. If you look at can do, whether you look at it in jurisprudence but people who are very left wing said, this So 30% of the stores are empty. And when you is that if people keep pressing and saying, dox, people that we disagree with, and we're then other people are going to say, are we now identifying by race? Well then it's like nuclear I'm going to go nuclear. That's what they think. there's great diversity within races. You when I leave Fresno, California and I see diaspora who hasn't had one person in this here and see somebody with a PhD or a JD who's I can tell you they have zero in common, zero in have nothing in common. But to lump all every race. And to these collectives, it's not it's the Anheuser-Busch pushback or the target or all of a sudden we hear a song that is the contemporary Classics, popular, this Oliver Young, it's a phenomenon. Why? Because it's somebody class. And we're tired of being told what to do. Except people are getting very tired. And I think We saw it at Stanford University with a judge was shouted down and a administrator but then produced a text that was pre-written happen as scripted and then join the students people said, this doesn't work anymore. This been here 20 years, I think I've never had more than that. That was sort of the epitome. we will not have a law school because you won't to have a Maoist czar to approve every type of list where we were told you can't use the word - Bill Whalen - - Victor Davis Hanson - the Jacobin phase. We were now in the Jacobin and there's going to be a Thermidorian Reaction. the reaction is moderate and tries to tamp going and going, we're going to get a backlash it's not pretty. And that's going to be