Hey Guys, welcome to yet another interesting session by Intellipaat and today we are going to look at the top 10 technologies to learn in 2019. Not everything in the universe is constant except change. We adopt the changes, and that is how the The same thing applies to the technology as well. Latest trends in every technology help in Here, we have discussed some of those top trending technologies to learn in 2018. Number 10th in the list is Internet of Things IoT has become a hot topic in the A strong framework of cloud of sensors and actuators with the environment around us, is making this network of autonomous objects a reality. From smart wearable to smart cities, from domestic life to industries, IoT is expanding itself to different areas. Smart security solutions, smart home automation, smart health care, and smart wearables are some of the applications of IoT, and by the near future we expect to see system or smart power grids. Some of the popular Development tools which can be used for IOT are Arduino Eclipse &amp; IBMWatson So, anyone who is Fascinated by the Internet and understand the basics of programming languages like C, C++, and has a general idea of embedded systems can build a career in Internet of Next in the queue is Cyber Security In an increasingly digital world, the looming ever. These attacks are usually aimed information. Thus, Businesses need experts services used on a daily basis. Therefore, it is necessary for in place, to counter all of these threats. so, there is a high demand for diagnose and resolve these challenges. Cybersecurity refers to &lt;Click Event&gt;a set of techniques used to protect the integrity damage or unauthorized access. It represents the ability to defend against failures or power outages. Some of the top trending Cybersecurity Technologies are Threat Intelligence, Risk-Based Authentication Remediation &amp; Internet of Things Security These technologies are either implementing artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning or securing new endpoints from the internet of things (IoT). Some of the top Cybersecurity Companies of 2018 are AppGaurd, CA technologies, Cimcor, inc, CyberArk, CyberGym Control, &amp; DeltaRisk. Someone with a good understand protocol can start their career in Cybersecurity Technologies. The Next technology in the list is Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality. Virtual Reality is defined as a simulated environment.&quot; VR may be artificial, such as an animated and included in a virtual reality app. With virtual reality, you can move around and behind you, as if you were physically You can view virtual reality through a special VR viewer, such as the Oculus Rift, Vive or Daydream View. With virtual reality apps, you can explore surface of Mars, the top of Mt. Everest, or And Augmented reality is defined as &quot;an enhanced version of reality created on an image of something.&quot; AR apps use your phone's camera of you, then put a layer of information, including text and/or images, on top of that view. Apps can use AR for fun. The best example is &lt;Click event&gt; the game Pokemon GO, or for information, we have the app Layar. AR and VR serve the customer with an enhanced experience and this technology is applicable in various industries like gaming, entertainment, travel &amp; education. So, If you have a basic understanding of the OOPs concept, and if you know the different hardware used in the AR and in this technology. Next in the list is Data Integration, ETL ETL refers to extract, transform and load, and data integration. It enables companies to transfer it and then load this data into a database It is a crucial component in the development of business intelligence through data integration. The ETL process ensures that this data is in a uniform presentation. Anyone with basic understanding of Databases or SQL can start their career The benefits an organization achieves with Enhanced Business Intelligence Increased Query and System Performance High Return on Investment There are many ETL tools available in market currently like Informatica, Oracle data Integrator Microsoft SQL Server Talend SAP Business object, IBM Datastage &amp; Pentaho At number 6 in the list is DevOps. First, let's make it clear that DevOps is which seeks to bring together software developers and operations staff to work on the same project in a more collaborative manner. It is a software development method that stresses communication, collaboration and integration between software developers and (IT) operation professionals. As the name indicates DevOps is a combination of Development and Operations. There are many benefits which we receive from DevOps model such as: Speed, Rapid delivery Reliability Scale Improved Collaboration and Security Some of the tools used in DevOps are GIT, JENKINS DOCKER, PUPPET CHEF, KUBERNETES &amp; ANSIBLE There are many companies which are using DevOps now, like Amazon, Facebook, Netflix &amp; google. If you have basic knowledge manage systems, applications and infrastructure, then you can build your career in DevOps. Next in the list is Data Analytics and Visualization We are witnessing a quantum leap in data produced by multiple sources but all the data in the world is useless if you can't understand Data Analytics and Visualization is about at the right time, in order to enable them With the help of analytics and a right visualization tool, Organizations can identify future opportunities and an optimal solution for their existing Companies like Google, Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Twitter, all are making better business Some of the amazing data analytics and visualization tools are Tableau, Microsoft Business Intelligence, QlikView, PowerBI, Oracle Business Intelligence MicroStrategy, SAP Business Object, and SAS. If you have an analytical bent and have ability to understand data and find patterns in it then you should start your career in Data Analytics and Visualization. Number 4th is Big Data Big Data has been getting lot Big data refers to problems that are associated with processing and storing different types of data. Most of the companies today, rely on big data analytics to gain huge insight about their: customer, product research and marketing initiatives. There are several trends and innovations happening in this space. Industry experts are suggesting what data to use but rather about what data to ignore. The focus will be more on data quality. Some of the trendy big data technologies that you can use to promote your business are: Hadoop, Apache Spark Apache Flink, NiFi Kafka, Apache Samza NoSQL With these tools the power of Big data and levels. Using big data, Telecom companies can predict customer churn in a better way; Retail industries can predict what products will sell; Insurance companies understand how well their customers actually drive; campaigns can be optimized using big data analytics. Of course, there are so many other applications of big data and there will be many new categories as the tools become more widespread. So, If you have good knowledge of Java, SQL and Linux, and you're interested to work with large amounts of structured and unstructured data then surely you should accelerate your career in this space. Next in the list is cloud computing Cloud computing is the delivery of computing services such as servers, storage, databases, networking, software and analytics over the Companies offering these computing services are called cloud providers and typically charge for cloud computing services based on usage, similar to how you are billed for water or electricity at home. There are several advantages of cloud computing like Less Cost, 24 X 7 Availability, Fast and Scalable, and Better Security. There is a lot of competition out there in Some of the famous cloud provider companies Amazon Web Services, SalesForce Microsoft Azure, IBM Cloud &amp; Google Cloud If you have basic knowledge then it would be good to have a career in At number 2 in the list is Blockchain It is the future of internet. Like the name indicates, A blockchain called blocks that contain information for linked and secured using cryptography. It is the leading digital assets platform Blockchain is the technology that runs Bitcoin and Bitcoin is the world's first cryptocurrency and cryptocurrency is the future of the economy. There are many benefits of using blockchain like it provides transparency can view the entire chain. It also provides Immutability, blockchain, it cannot be reversed, there are or editing any data that has been recorded It also provides better security Without data being available a faster pace. It reduces cost as well. Beyond just financial services, in governance, insurance, retail, and Healthcare businesses are in need of skilled professionals to gain a competitive edge. So, to become a developer, you And even a non-technical person with basic the career in Blockchain. And the first technology in our list is Artificial Intelligence and Data Science. There is a lot of buzz about artificial intelligence and Data Science in the market currently. Data Science skills are increasingly being Machine Learning which is a needs a lot of the skills that a Data Scientist possesses like data cleansing, data wrangling, data parsing, building mathematical models, working with algorithms, and so on. So Data Scientists are being much sought-after in the Artificial Intelligence domain to build complex data models, train the machine learning systems with the right data, work with algorithms and make mathematical calculations. Data Scientists can also fine-tune the outcome of Deep Learning systems using statistics, probability and automation approaches. AI &amp; DS is applicable in manufacturing, retailing, transportation, finance, health care and virtually every other industry. If you're evaluating career options in this basic knowledge of Mathematics and experience on any language. And if you have experience in Python then is majorly used in the AI projects. By this we come to the end of this video. Now that we know what all technologies you should learn here is the list of training provided by Intellipaat: Blockchain, Cloud Computing Big Data Hadoop, BI Tools DevOps, Salesforce, SAP, Programming and Databases To know more about these course, please visit our website www.intellipaat.com. Thank you for watching the video. If you have any enquiries, feel free to contact us. Do Subscribe to Intellipaat channel so that you can keep yourself updated on the latest technologies. Thank You.