On September the 6th, 1992, a group of moose bus in the Alaskan wilderness. It was a almost 30 miles from the nearest town but it was also a welcome one - it had been a to spend the night indoors (well, if you can Anyway, the moment the hunters stepped they were hit by a wall of foul-smelling air This being the Alaskan bush, they first assumed but then they found a sleeping bag, and inside The police arrived on the scene via helicopter the this most morbid case. This should have been a of nowhere don't give up their secrets easily a pleasant surprise, because, beside the body of film - a record, of sorts, of the man's life. You see, this body didn't belong to but a 24-year old idealist who'd given more authentic life. And the story of how the middle of nowhere in Alaska is one of the It starts with a bigamous marriage and and it's either soaringly uplifting or utterly This is the tale of Christopher McCandless, the man who walked into the Christopher was born on February 12th 1968 was an aerospace engineer who worked for NASA, and his mother Billie helped run the family affluent upbringing fool you - life in the Chris had a younger sister, Carine, as well marriage. In 2014, Carine McCandless published were verbally and physically abusive both After graduating from high school in 1986 with first major solo adventure. His family had he was still a kid, so he travelled back to his and a few old friends. But during this When he was little his father had often spent businessman, you might think he was simply time in his *other* family home. You see, Walt had Chris' mother Billie. Rather than, you know, simply split his time between the families, even (Chris would later discover that he was just He was 18 when he found out, and people have even suggested that to tell you about can be traced Further education was a chance for Chris to at Emory University, graduating in 1980 with Most people who knew him in those days expected make a lot of money, maybe have a family. But Christopher McCandless had no intention expectations of society not as items on but as a straitjacket designed to rob us of in May 1990, he donated every penny he owned to without telling a soul where he was going, or He spent that first summer crossing the US in Lake Mead before getting stuck in a flash flood Instead of turning back, Chris forged onwards, Over a two-year spree, traversing built a new life for himself under the assumed ego of sorts - a self-made superhero whose only Nobody knows Christopher's exact whereabouts mostly comes from the memories of people whose months working as a grain operator for a man he the streets of Las Vegas, learned leather working to Chris he offered to adopt him as his grandson. hiked through some of the most planet earth, and illegally kayaked down In short, he roamed where he pleased, answered to usual worries and expectations of the rest of the to, and no requirements beyond putting food in He'd left home in search of freedom... As exhilarating as that must have been... it wasn't enough. It was true that rules... but he *was* still living *in And so in early 1992, he ceased his wandering and began pathing his way United States' last great wilderness - a state and Germany put together, but with less than Alaska. It was to be the site of Alexander On the 28th of April, a Fairbanks electrician called Jim Gallien gave Christopher a Most Alaskans know a thing or two about surviving concerned that Chris didn't exactly seem to He had little in the way of provisions, take down Alaska's bigger game and his hiking boots weren't even waterproof. tools. He didn't even have a map. In short, Chris Jim Gallien was right to be concerned. Because he would be the last person to see Chris' original plan had been to hit the Bering Sea. But just 4 days having forded two rivers and skidded he stumbled upon the abandoned bus that was You won't be surprised to hear that life in was changeable and often extreme, and food was Chris was living his dream of existing entirely For food, he foraged for berries, dug up roots, and even a moose - though he was unable to spoiled.. He survived encounters with bears and and spent his downtime reading classics by Henry Chris was clearly a resourceful guy - his two he'd underestimated just how hard it would while his diary shows he was able to gather get his hands on enough calories to fuel his Despite his best efforts, slowly but surely, Pictures from the undeveloped rolls later reveal how thin, almost skeletal he became. He must have recognised the danger he Odyssey, he decided enough was enough; said goodbye to his bus-based abode, trail. Alexander Supertramp had decided Two days later he reached the Teklanika shiver. When he'd crossed this very stream from it was knee deep and placid. Now, swollen by two a raging torrent of freezing, frothing death. best of times, but right now that didn't Phelps and Flipper the Dolphin couldn't have With little other choice, Chris simply It's hard to imagine just how scared he must have the wilderness, but some time after he got exactly when - he wrote a brief note and posted *Attention Possible Visitors. S.O.S. I need your hike out. I am all alone, this is no joke. In the collecting berries close by and shall return this By the time someone finally read those words, Christopher McCandless had In the days and weeks after Chris' return to his body growing weaker as His diary entries during that period *Day 94 - Extremely weak. Fault of Pot. Seed. Much trouble just to stand up. *Day 100! Made it! But in weakest condition Too weak to walk out. Have literally Nobody knows exactly what Christopher was going but there's no doubt he knew he was going to die. despite the loneliness, he still somehow managed In those final dying days, he took one final smile and waving at the camera, and in his *I have had a happy life and thank the If one of the objectives of with this picture, I hope we On day 107, the final words in his diary Six days later, on day 113, the that was the day Christopher McCandless died. just 30 kilograms when he passed away, and That might sound fairly obvious given the that verdict has actually been a little You see, many people believe that Chris died not he accidentally ingested some kind of poison Jon Krakauer, author of the 'Into the Wild,' to the masses, has spent the last few decades potato plant - apparently referenced as botanists have long believed, harmless, but are He's thrown plenty of theories around over But in 2015 he published a study that claimed to L-canavanine in sample seeds gathered from concluded that consumption of these seeds very Anyway, poison aside, if you've read Into there's a good chance you think of Christopher for his courage and principles. But In fact, there are plenty of people who got himself killed thanks to a woeful lack of As uncharitable as that hot-take may seem, underprepared for his final adventure. I've to civilisation 2 months into his trip before What I didn't mention is that just 800 metres was a hand-operated cable car that would have he'd a map with him he'd have known that, and Ultimately, there's probably a kernel of truth towards the man who called himself Alexander minded determination to live the life he wanted before us by society and the expectations questioning it. And we all know plenty of people particularly like so that they can afford Christopher McCandless saw our success and material things and just... he wanted a life, and he didn't need It's funny to think that Chris walked into the to have been a simpler time. A time before corner of our lives, and before every one You could say his message is more relevant today why his story continues to speak to people Thanks for watching.