Narrator: It's a song you've Is this the real life? And it was probably not like Is this just fantasy? I'm of course talking about &quot;Bohemian Rhapsody,&quot; a song is one of the most influential of our generation. But have you ever wondered that no one ever thought would be a hit became one of the most I'm just a poor boy I need no sympathy Because I'm easy come (record scratching) &quot;Bohemian Rhapsody&quot; was a but it officially kicked into when Freddie Mercury began writing it as an operatic piece titled, &quot;Real Life.&quot; After the success of their last Queen was given complete creative freedom and control over their next piece. And it's obvious that they and ran with it. Fisch: &quot;Bohemian Rhapsody&quot; had which is that it was the first time you heard it, you hadn't heard anything like it. Narrator: This is Irwin Fisch. He's an Emmy-nominated composer and professor at NYU Steinhardt. Fisch: In my image is that makes you pull over because you go, &quot;What the devil is this?&quot; Very few songs have Narrator: And he's right. &quot;Bohemian Rhapsody&quot; was and still is today. Unlike most pop hits that it was a six-minute pop an opera, right in the middle of the song. Fisch: It actually in some because it was so fully realized that it was a little bit of, It managed to become a and something that and never stops in the karaoke and it's all over the place, anything that sounds like that. Narrator: One of the reasons sounds so different is in its structure. The song is neither an a cappella, a ballad, an opera or rock. It's actually all of them in one song. Fisch: It advanced a tradition meaning not a continuous song, not a verse, chorus, verse, which was the norm. A put together group of So if people refer to that's a bit of a misnomer. It's actually three or four songs. Narrator: &quot;Bohemian Rhapsody&quot; into five different sections: Is this the real life Ballad. Mama Opera. Thunderbolts and lightning Very very frightening me Hard rock. So you think you can stone And finally a reflective coda. Nothing really matters It was also highly unusual to not include a chorus, while combining different musical styles and lyrics. It is by definition a Fisch: This innovation It started basically with the Beach Boys with &quot;Good Vibrations.&quot; I'm picking up good vibrations She's giving me the excitations The Beatles with &quot;A Day in the Life.&quot; A crowd of people stood and stared Epic songs that pieced into a cohesive whole. Queen, in &quot;Bohemian and pushed it way over the top. Narrator: And to see just you need to look no farther than this operatic section of the song. The lyrics name characters from quotes from the Quran, And this section that by a roomful of choir was Freddie Mercury, drummer Roger Taylor, and guitarist Brian May. It's not just the vocals; even in the instruments that This technique was heavily called the &quot;Wall of by producer Phil Spector. He put masses of musicians in one room, three keyboard players but in various similar instruments, like the harpsichord or an electric piano, and recording them the likes of which had That was exactly what Fisch: When people talk &quot;Bohemian Rhapsody&quot; is, or even more, about the production. Narrator: To achieve the Queen used a technique also called ping pong recording. Most of the pop songs you listen to today use a lot of audio tracks, for different instruments and vocals, combining to make one song. But back then, technology of audio tracks that could be used. For example, Beatles' was recorded on an And to fit more than four they would record all all their tracks into one, The bounce tracks would combine meaning if you raise the sound it would raise the volume of all the individual tracks within. Fisch: Part of the great was that you had to make to the blending of so you needed to have a lot of foresight and a great image of where you were going. By the time Queen made we were up to 24-track tape. By today's standards, that's They had so many vocals and they had so many layers of guitars. I've heard that they had that got put onto a Narrator: But of course this method of bouncing tracks came Once it's done, you can't go back to just fix it, like we can do now. Fisch: Two-inch, 24-track tape it was a physical process. It was a razor blade. It was an edit block where You would slice through the two-inch tape. You would cut out what And you would splice it together with a little piece of white tape. Now it's very easy digitally. You chop it on the screen. If you made a mistake, you can fix it. Everything now is non-destructive. Everything they did then was destructive, so it took a lot of commitment and a very, very intense, deep skillset to be able to piece that stuff together and have it sound smooth. Narrator: Just how much becomes more evident when to just listen to the vocals. I'm just a poor boy I need no sympathy Because I'm easy come, easy go Little high, little low Fisch: And before the Beatles a song was a song. It needed to be presentable on the piano. If you sat down and from start to finish on the &quot;Wow, that's really wild and interesting.&quot; But you probably wouldn't that's gonna endure for 40 years. What made it that had a lot to do with the sound they created. Narrator: And of course, &quot;Bohemian Rhapsody&quot; without talking about the man behind the song, Freddie Mercury, because this song was Unlike most of Queen's collaboratively in the according to the guitarist Brian May, was &quot;all in Freddie's head&quot; Fisch: Freddie Mercury in an interview as I think that could be taken was to see if he could his sonic preconceptions, out there. I don't think it was the where they went into what would happen, because and had the production and the notes and the arrangements and sound I think the experiment if something unique could An important reason that and has resonated for over 40 years is that it embodied which is Freddie Mercury's That record is an oral self-consciousness without shame. It's music in some ways the sensibilities are out of the closet. As a performer, there hadn't been a Freddie Mercury before Freddie Mercury. Narrator: And perhaps lyrics and performances, what truly makes &quot;Bohemian Rhapsody&quot; what every musical piece should be: the talent and the and create something even 40 years later. In a time where pop sound the same, maybe that's why we still can't stop listening With just this one song, became something that very few artists managed to achieve: a legend.