July 30, 2018. The international press In front of journalists, They conducted an extraordinary investigation. That of the disappearance of flight MH 370, with 239 people on board. For more than four years, the families of the victims Today, investigators will finally put together in a report But what they will declare, We will tell you Five years later, families of passengers always ignore the circumstances How such a machine, The crew responds: &quot;Good night.&quot; A basic, banal message. From the time and leaves Malaysian air territory, anything can happen. We resumed the investigation, analyzed all the assumptions, accident, terrorist act, missile. What really happened? This disappearance is unclear. There are people who know. - When lithium batteries, it makes a hole in the plane, after 15 minutes they died. - Landing on an island I must say that I considered it. A priori, It's not an accident. I am convinced On an island south of the Maldives, - They do not know the intentions At this moment, they wouldn't have Nothing should be ruled out. Kuala Lumpur, March 7, 2014. Night falls on the capital We are Friday, However, at the airport, many flights On the display board, there is one for Beijing, the MH370. He is operated His departure is scheduled for 12:25 a.m., and the plane that will One of the prides The Boeing 777, it is a marvel of aeronautics. It is a plane that works very well. Who has not had a major incident. Pilots consider it To fly the MH370, fate has designated Zaharie Shah, He started And already totals 18,000 flight hours. Commander Zaharie He knows the 777 by heart. He had created to improve. This commander was known especially for his seriousness. By his side, An enthusiast who started flying He is only 27 years old. The co-pilot He had been recently formed, but it was his first flight It's 10 p.m. Surveillance cameras and the co-pilot pass without incident before boarding the plane. Nothing to report. Follow the ten hostesses It's a very banal, harmless theft. The pilot and the co-pilot will observe the list of cargo, freight, will watch the weather forecast, And take a quick look It's a theft like there is One hour later. Passengers bound for Beijing are invited of flight MH370. A boarding Registration, passport control. 11:20 p.m. The passengers The cabin is not full. There are 227 passengers. We mainly have Malaysians stopping over And some Westerners, which is the Wattrelos family. A French family living in Beijing. Mother Laurence, daughter Amber, All installed in the same row. At seats 25 D, E, F and G. There is also a group 20 Chinese and Malaysian engineers, working for the same company. Freescale, an American company, very advanced At seat 11 C, another engineer The only American adult of the MH370. At 12:25 a.m., - The passengers The crew is on board the plane. Control services At one point, the plane is calling The crew makes this request once everything is closed, that the plane is released It will taxi towards runway 32 right. Because it is the one assigned to him. It's night. It's around 12:30 a.m. Local hour. He is cleared to take off. The plane takes off normally. No problem It takes its cruising altitude. About 35,000 feet, I believe. The route planned for Beijing It was late, many passengers But the takeoff and the conversations, between the pilots and the control tower, were fully compliant. Until &quot;You are going to leave our airspace,&quot; &quot;you will arrive The crew responds, &quot;Good night.&quot; A very basic, banal message. night flight, very friendly. The atmosphere is a bit special. When we move away from a land that we are above a sea, and which has an air of farewell. There is always a little hello &quot;Finally the land.&quot; This is what exists whether sailors or airmen. Then the Boeing With all standard settings. It flies at an altitude of 11,000 meters If all goes well, The pilots communicate normally There's just a little quirk. They repeat the altitude twice, Then, at a certain moment, they're about to get in touch But at 1:21 a.m. local, at the precise moment when he must enter the Boeing loses Controllers They may wonder who made a handling error, if that's a problem They will find out To try to see For the moment, There may be another explanation Because at that hour of the night, the Boeing flies over where communications It's a bad area Above and radio coverage is imperfect. This phenomenon exists in France. When you fly over the Bay of Biscay. Sometimes you talk to a controller There is an area, and where we no longer receive your messages. There is no more contact Controllers Airplanes flying in the area the radars no longer see it. So, all of a sudden, around 1:38 a.m., we meet In that case, it is an insurmountable weather problem. Did the Boeing wipe which would have damaged its engines on a nearby island? Some say the plane This is instruction number one. When you have an engine fire, you are told: &quot;You ask yourself Not just any ground, We checked with our colleagues. In the early morning, there were lands Landing on an island I must say that I considered it. According to this specialist, the Boeing could have on one of the 16,000 islands in the region. As soon as the plane disappeared, many of them share this idea, inspired by The passenger story after an air crash. But in this case, there is a problem. If there were survivors why none of them We all remember where a mother, called her child. By leaving a message &quot;You will tell your father that I love him.&quot; &quot;You will tell the children And there is a crash. Here, that is not the case at all. Because among all these passengers, The Chinese always have a, There are not any I don't believe in that assumption anymore. that I dared to emit, because I found it relatively Far from suspecting the drama the 20 million Pekingese Even on this Saturday morning, Others are on their way to the airport. Despite the early hour, families and friends came from Malaysia Airlines, landing At the same time, Ghyslain Wattrelos is also He can't wait to find his wife, Lawrence, 52 years old Amber, 14, and Adrien, 17. On the evening of March 7, My family was coming back holiday, February vacation. I had to spend the second week In Beijing, an American waits return to china Also a passenger on flight MH370. We were on the move We lived in Beijing and wanted We were very excited It's been a month The expectation of families The plane is announced The minutes pass and the faces Everyone says to themselves I don't have any more information. At first they said They gave me this paper Philip was supposed to call me At 6.30am. It never happened. I tried to call her, On any of his various laptops. At 10:30 a.m., It's been four hours now The notice board The plane is delayed. And for the first time, what they gonna say Very early this morning, we have had disturbing information. A Malaysia Airlines plane, lost all contact with ground control. MH370 disappeared from radar screens It was between Malaysia in the middle of the China Sea. For families, I'm on the plane When I arrive at 4 p.m., at the foot of the plane. Who says to me: &quot;It's finish.&quot; What families don't know is that this announcement For several hours, no one seemed to care When we lose touch There are three known phases. INCERFA, ALERFA, DETRESFA. It means uncertainty, First, INCERFA, We keep looking, we call each other We call the planes next door. ALERFA, we are starting to implement The authorities are alerted. We're getting ready for something After a certain time that obviously, we will trigger All controllers, that there is a plane, such type, We don't know where he is. So, Either a plane that has diverted Either possibly Curiously, the airline company As this official report shows. Recorded there, minute by minute, all the actions triggered, from the time We can read there that at 1:38 a.m., Vietnam air traffic controllers that they no longer have any contact And it's only four hours later, this Saturday, March 8, You realize ? We waited four hours and official research saying that this plane is missing. It is clear that if the alert we would have known that How to explain did not intervene as protocol would require An intervention that could have And its 239 occupants. - It's unimaginable to leave a ghost plane While we know Imagine in France. A plane leaving Roissy and who suddenly does, Within five minutes, French hunting say, &quot;What are you doing?&quot; Then if he approaches too close to Paris, After September 11, than the military left a Boeing 777 Frankly, I'm surprised and we've never had However, the explanation The strong man of the Malaysian government, It was he who dealt and who knows many secrets. So when the plane why the minister and we intercept the phantom plane? He was not threatening, it came from our airspace If a child ready to jump, we have morally We can't cross our arms. And watch without doing anything. However, it is exactly They just sat and watched. If you don't want to shoot it down, Do you need You talk about military procedure. If I had it shot down, you would be the first to blame me with passengers of 14 nationalities, I would find myself A stunning statement, The passivity of the Malaysian authorities of this case. And it's not the last. More than 11 hours the flight is always announced late. Parents, children of passengers The company brings them together It was totally disorganized. At first it was traumatic. Air Malaysia had put a big room, in a hotel in Beijing You're coming, a swarm of journalists There are 200 people We leave you in this room, In front of the press and the families, the CEO of the Malaysian We are very saddened this morning Malaysian authorities to try to find the plane. Immediately I said: &quot;I'm not staying here, I came home I wanted to see nobody. I am not satisfied She snubs us. My son was 30 he went to malaysia We had the name of a contact everything he knew how to tell us, This is still true today. We know absolutely nothing. The hours pass Since his disappearance the MH370 only left behind As if the Boeing had purely How is it possible ? How such a mass just over the China Sea? Gerard Arnoux who has always been interested and their causes. But in this specific case, We realize next to such a device. It's not a small plane. It brings us how a machine It emits a lot of heat There is no Bermuda Triangle It is unthinkable. The Boeing 777 is a flying monster. 63 meters long. 60 meter wingspan But it's also a smart plane. With its 80 on-board computers, he is never alone in heaven. These machines, it communicates. It's full of electronics, On the roof, there are satellite antennas, boxes that communicate alone, that send signals. Unthinkable to consider permanently connected to the ground by radio So what happened in We proceeded to reconstruct with exactly Same flight plan, same altitude We see that there is still but it's a quiet night. Nothing special about this classic flight. We're crossing Malaysia, heading The autopilot is on. He will go up It will follow the road that I have already entered Meanwhile, the famous transponder This message is transmitted It is vital. Because it gives the exact position its speed, altitude Until then, we're on a flight Air traffic controllers know where I am. They know how high I am for which In just one time, in a minute. We will lose the identification of the plane. The air traffic controller won't see me anymore. In fact, the transponder is suddenly cut off. The second more complex element, one minute apart, This ACARS box sends via satellite. It sends information the amount of fuel consumed. The rotational speed of the motors. Engine thrust. Temperature. All these elements, And if these two devices it can mean From the day after the disappearance, on March 9, 2014, research in the China Sea start right there But if no debris is found, maybe that means An outside hand would have acted to prevent We asked Gerard Arnoux, in a Boeing, If we cut the transponder, just toggle it off, the plane disappears from the radar screens. Purely and simply. To disable ACARS, Because the system is hidden To get there, Lift a hatch and go down to join To cut the ACARS, you had to access a breaker, And you had to pull a fuse I don't know them, but one of these fuses The ACARS, you have to go in the hold, you have to know I never learned, and none British or French, only learned in his machine qualification I do not know how to do. So who could of the Boeing Either this pilot knew the place which is quite complicated. Either, if he is a terrorist, he knew the procedure. This procedure to find and especially to be able to unplug it. Research in the China Sea cannot find So the investigators after disappearing from radar screens, did not actually continue its course. Among the passengers, The list of passengers in the cabin Precisely, in this list, there are two names who intrigue That of an Austrian, Christian Kozel, and that of an Italian, Luigi Maraldi. In fact, amazingly, we will realize that the two men Thai police Who tell them of their misadventures. So who was sitting Where normally should airport videos and Malaysian investigators than the Italian and the Austrian by two stowaways. And this young Iranian, here he is. He is 19 years old Another 29-year-old Iranian. Even more disturbing detail, the two men from Thailand. As the numbers show The two Iranians are from the outset just like the airport We realize that the two passengers the same day, with stolen passports. Necessarily, who are thinking of the criminal trail. How is it thinkable only after the attacks two passengers with false passports and get on a plane Several testimonies claim would show flaws I went security checks, from Roissy or New York. It was much more &quot;lax.&quot; We also know that in Kuala Lumpur, you can get on a plane, without being registered Is the plane in the hands The hypothesis seems Remember, September 11, 2001. America is a victim Before that day, who could have imagined can be diverted, and embed themselves in buildings? So the two Iranian passengers did they take orders And if yes, The track looks enticing. But very fast, a denial from the Malaysian police Police investigations identify new suspects On the other hand, in the cockpit, All eyes turn and his co-pilot Fariq Abdul Hamid. The investigation of the pilots is complicated. There are contradictory things and their resumes would be heavier that no one wants to tell us. First, let's look at the co-pilot. He is a young man of 27 years old, quite incapable For him, this flight The co-pilot but anyway he was leaving that night However, the investigation will show For example, with aviation regulations. The proof is the testimony In 2011, on vacation with a friend, she would have been invited We were queuing for boarding, When the pilots then they came back to us. They told us : &quot;You want to pass That day, not only have passed Worse, they were present during the phases What is strictly prohibited During the whole flight, they talked to us. They were smoking. I didn't think that was happening. At one time they were so that they had turned towards us. One of them took &quot;Your hand is so fine.&quot; &quot;You are a very creative person.&quot; And comments things like that. He's a little bling bling boy, As soon as there is someone known he invites her to see him, to look. He loves the stars But it's not because we're frivolous It remains that the behavior An anonymous investigator before the plane tried to call Why ? Mystery. Malaysian investigators on personality A 53-year-old man, very experienced Only by delving into his life, investigators will discover First by searching his home. A week after the police men Here it is. A device I know a lot of pilots on simulators Because they like it For the authorities, it's not so much the simulator but what is in his memory. This is confirmed very quickly That's not the only oddity. Zaharie Ahmad Shah to land on very short runways. It will intrigue. Did he plan to hijack the flight on a small island in the Indian Ocean? The pilot was practicing to land on short tracks Why was he doing this? We can understand that a pilot, who is on long crossings, is said in the event of a glitch, It could be a reason. For the Malaysian authorities, if the pilot trained there was another reason, more diabolical. This smiling face of a good father The thesis of the pilot who wanted is a scenario because it has already happened in the past. A pilot may have attempted suicide. It's happened several times already. In Morocco with an ATR 42. It happened off It happened in Japan with a DC-8. I know of cases. However, And this for a very simple reason. funny way to kill yourself than to be able at 1:30 a.m. and decide to go die What would you have done in his place I would have taken the plane, Ultimately, international investigators No evidence suggests behavior on the part of the pilot. No sign of social isolation, And according to the analysis of the flight simulator, the captain the same route as that of the MH370. If the answer is neither in the cabin, nor in the cockpit, it remains to be explored The disappearance of the MH370 what was really Oddly, families have had a hard time on this subject. The company that is in charge is based in Kuala Lumpur. From the first days, She no longer provides any information. They took time Normally she should have But it took weeks. And that too is very weird. It will take seven weeks so that the company This list is here. But is it really complete? Several strange details Of the 224 packages stored in the hold, there is for example, A tropical fruit that looks like lychee, which the Chinese love. And there is a small problem. The loading list we were given We are told that there is While there is none So if the packages what do they contain? That's exactly what they're looking for The manifesto is incomplete, what we are given is false. In the load there are things There is more worrying. In the cargo list, we also discover these batteries computer tablets According to the document, in the holds of the aircraft. Their transport is normally prohibited on passenger flights. Maybe that's why correct the number No one communicates about it because normally it is forbidden. Since the accident It was in September 2010. A 747 from this transport company The investigation report had accused hundreds of batteries Look what's left of the jumbo jet, after the batteries Almost nothing. So we know very well when they are concentrated The proof in pictures. Watch how can catch fire under the effect of a shock. If one starts to explode, the others will explode too. 200 kilos, even assuming which is already enormous, It makes a hole in the plane. We are at 11,000 meters above sea level. Immediate loss of pressurization. There is no more oxygen. When we know that there may have been in the aircraft hold. Imagine the consequences - Depressurization not only your eardrums will burst, you're going to bleed from the nose, from the ears. It causes You hardly feel But above all, you risk falling Anyway, the lack of oxygen Was the Boeing after the explosion The hypothesis is appealing. However, in the event of a fire, pilots are trained We are trained in three seconds. The gesture that must be made is this. We inflate the sausages, we relax, we breathe. May even before In the plane, everyone autopilot, until there is no more and there, the plane falls. This scenario already performed in Greece in August 2005. It happened where the Greek hunters followed him. They saw the crew who was slumped, They had been victims No one had noticed. They had been asphyxiated and there was no The plane continued Until Would the MH370 have suffered The international investigation excludes it. But in this case, where did the plane go? The resources deployed in the China Sea, are colossal. Forty ships and about thirty planes Nine countries are mobilized. The problem, it's that we're not looking During one week, east of Malaysia, We send boats, planes, absolutely enormous means, To tell us a week later: &quot;We pointed the plane to the West.&quot; Indeed, on March 12, 2014, four days malaysia brings The night of the flight, military radar These primary radars, These are basically These radars do not see anything live, but they register the resonance A commercial aircraft, for example, When we will have identified on the bands of these radars, he will stay in the end Among which, the MH370. These readings proved that the MH370 had turned left to return to Malaysia. Incredible when for four days, we thought the plane the Igari point. The military radars, them, register the MH370 As if he was retracing his steps We follow this plane and we realize It will go along all along the border between Malaysia and Thailand, without ever entering nor Malaysia actually. As if he had no Then the border turns right and the plane turns right At that time he was walking along the border between on one side, Indonesia, He turns a second time because the border turns and goes to the Andaman Islands. Then there, we lose sight of it. Why is the Boeing tracking like this borders Without ever For specialists, The pilots were cleared. Yet the plane is at that time Between hands The trajectory that is followed, It is not a random trajectory. When he will fly over this border between Thailand and Malaysia, it passes by four airports If he had been in an emergency, He would have sent by I don't know what means. He would have tried to land. However, it follows a complex trajectory who asks to know how to pilot, It's not an accident, an accident, And that's not all. A week after Malaysian authorities discover this March 8, 2014. It is a satellite which affirms it. Inmarsat, a satellite that received Thanks to a small box. This famous ACARS box, he gets the information It was cut, there is a small box called who translates And it's this modem So this modem, But he, every hour, &quot;I'm here, The study of these beeps, by Inmarsat, will determine a line along which, This line goes to Kazakhstan, north and she goes off Perth, - It's not possible otherwise the radars would have seen it. So since he didn't go north, he went south. At 1:38 a.m., and along this trajectory, the search area When it was announced it was discovered that searching for debris south of the Indian Ocean given the size of the area. Look in comparison, the Gulf of Thailand, We sent them to a place a lot of wind, and where there are very large funds. So obviously, it's the needle The haystack Once again, authorities The information is now official. The plane headed south. This announcement by the Prime Minister triggers anger Families of missing passengers The first research in this area Why do we send where we are told we see debris? We are shown debris and we never find a single one. We're constantly tossed around from the authorities and the media. It really is a roller coaster. Suddenly Australia tells us: &quot;I saw a trail of kerosene The person who said that Can't find kerosene You know, Often, when we go to drink the information is no longer the same. Passenger families by the lack of reliability that they will rebel And then proof for the families and hide information. What happens on day 28 We know that black boxes, Strangely on the 28th day, two boats hear noises. A Chinese boat, an Australian boat. The Chinese boat &quot;I'm sorry, You believe it, do you ? A boat that seeks, The Australian ship: &quot;I'm sorry, I want to believe The Chinese boat, But all this amount of lies, it's more incompetence. In all air disasters, waste What is new here, no parts of the Boeing are spotted nor by boats, What makes this story Looking at recent crashes, we always have even after a certain period, Indeed, let us take the example The Air France Airbus If it took two years the first debris been spotted In the case of the Boeing 777 it will take 16 long months These three debris have been authenticated by experts And disturbingly, they were discovered at the opposite There have been analyzes from where the plane is supposed to fall. And if the plane falls there It's clear When we do the northeast coast of Madagascar Of the 27 airplane pieces which are supposed half It is this man with the appearances In December 2016, we met him Every debris It's the last hope And or. Blaine Gibson has a particular profile. He is a wealthy American lawyer who, one day discovered a mission. Search voluntarily He comes several times a year to the island Unbelievable ! We passed here and there was nothing. And there, right now, this piece just failed, which looks like a piece Also amazing the sea has just deposited there, before our eyes, this piece that looks like You have to be there at the right time Blaine Gibson rakes tirelessly and on this December day, The families of Chinese victims found what looks like Authorized experts must to find out if it's from the Boeing. Based on my experience, it looks exactly like On the other side of the ocean, Over the years, Hundreds of millions of dollars So much so that the families of the victims calculations provided There are very few people of the search area In fact, based on the score communicated it is possible than that used by the investigators. Just vary to get According to these four French experts, if the plane was he could have then But for lack of sufficient fuel, he would have crashed But for terrorists, it exists in the Indian Ocean Some say : Now the airspace Why not do a September 11 on a symbolic basis But on the Internet, a name comes up with insistence. This theory asserts and that he would have finished Diego Garcia, located in the Indian Ocean, west of Malaysia, It is this atoll of sand and coral, unknown to the general public, It is the most important airbase Military base. There are B-52s, there are B-2s, it's an aircraft carrier, Airplanes who go to Iraq, all start from there. Today Diego Garcia US military bases. This database specializes and on espionage by which So obviously, to the island of Diego Garcia, the American response Seen the surveillance of this island by Americans, it is clear that they They don't know the intentions and who would head for Diego Garcia. At that time, they wouldn't have Only everyone One would have to imagine that the Americans, to protect themselves, protect a base, would have succeeded in very little time, the agreement to shoot down a plane I think we are So whimsical Maybe or maybe not. This is Marc Dugain. He previously led He is now a novelist and wrote for a major French weekly. If we take a step back and we rise two things are amazing. The first is, no debris, no witnesses, except what I could find. During his investigation, Marc Dugain traveled to the Maldives. A string of islands and he questioned witnesses. what they say Marc Dugain goes on the spot and say that on an island people saw a big plane on March 8 in the morning, An airplane with red and blue stripes. The inhabitants of the island a plane this size of their life, and at such an altitude. They show me the size They see the portholes I was interrogated. There's a fisherman who was somewhere and he saw him leave. What is interesting, is that he saw And this bend is a south bend, to Diego Garcia. If we understand Marc Dugain correctly, after his U-turn and his incoherent movements the plane would have followed a trajectory Passing over the Maldives. I spent, I believe, I realized to extremely righteous people, totally disinterested. They didn't know at all i.e. the small station Saying but how come Did you see a big plane? And that's not all. A second, even more disturbing clue Kids who went fishing see an object floating. First they're a little worried Then they see it floating. They see it's empty. They pick it up The Army is coming Apparently said it's not dangerous. It's all round with peaks, but obviously that Could this gray ball be To check it, we went comparable to that of the Malaysian. One has to admit It's one of the holds, the forward hold. Where are the fire extinguishers? Fire extinguisher bottles? Here are those spheres. There are the same on the other side. These are fire extinguishers So these fire extinguishers, are used for extinguishing It depends It's a ball like that, that we would have found One of those balls. Indeed, It's tilting in my mind And a soldier from the Maldives tells me off: Was it the Malaysian's? Right away the Maldives said Since then, we hear no more about it. Who owns this fire extinguisher? The low assumption is that the MH370 and we found this fire extinguisher. And then the high hypothesis is By US military aircraft Diego Garcia Air Base. There he would have been shot. Then debris from the wreckage would have drifted 2000 kilometers to the north, until a few children If that is the case, we understand that they do not have because it is very difficult to explain, that a civilian plane was shot down. The silence of the Americans is deafening. This is the area There are satellites all the time With a satellite, I remind you, they are able Even Sarah Bike, the American who lost her companion, ends up surprised too What struck me it's that Obama That he remained completely silent. There is a disturbing silence. Usually, They are the righters of wrongs. Sometimes the American press She has this culture of investigation, to seek the truth. And there, nothing, nada, nothing. We don't talk about it. And what is more intriguing it's that Barack Obama when, seven weeks later, Mr. Obama is going to Malaysia. Never an American President That's exactly when And then nine months later, Barack Obama invites to play golf. It seems a bit playful, frivolous, but be invited it's one of the rare privileges What did they say to each other on this green between two or three holes? It must be said that in this type of case, the silence of the authorities to the emergence of theories Ghylsain Wattrelos, who lost his wife in the drama, is also convinced are hiding something. What justified this? Who took the liberty of taking my family away from me? I need to know. I need to tell my son. He needs answers. So the father It's the only At the top of the state. on the other hand, it is radio silence. France, oddly, never said When a flight crashes in Ukraine we go up to the front. We hold press conferences, On the MH370, Why ? At some point, the BEA goes there at the request of the Malaysians, but who has no access to anything. At the head of the French experts of the BEA, specialised in there is Jean-Paul Troadec. Just arrived in Malaysia, We had not imagined, than a pilot the ACARS system, etc. It is obvious I'm afraid we can't We have the impression they do not do But also we have the impression We have the impression to speak on this matter. Five years after the start the same caution is in order. It's written in black and white In conclusion, the real cause By the admission of those responsible the truth is not near A press conference with great fanfare. A 500 page report. All that for this. Nevertheless, But then, A passenger ? Looking closer, the boarding list probably did not There are twenty people where it really should Among the 227 passengers, there is a What is amazing, is that there is Freescale. There was who had just filed a patent &quot;make planes stealth&quot;, i.e. not detectable They were twenty on board. That raises questions. The company say who is on the plane. Who were these passengers? Did they hold Possible because the company The KL02, with incredible powers, like the clame On board the plane, They worked here The KL02 is such a small chip that she could hold In fact, it's a capable little brain with different functions. But also tiny robots. For civilian purposes, So did anyone want who boarded the MH370? Researchers who would have Once on board a drone, she might be However, for the best it all seems They always say there's a conspiracy when there is and we don't know how to explain it. Going through the passenger list, it is however not At seat 29 A took place This Malaysian is an engineer Strangely he's just sitting the satellite communication system thanks to which Could he have hacked the system preventing you from knowing Nowadays, impossible to deny it. Finally, there is one final scenario. It deserves attention, even if it looks like What if someone had taken Is it possible to hijack a plane Many people I think we can control By the way, George Bush He said : &quot;We have to be able &quot;the day we have terrorists We will develop to enhance aviation safety. In case of diversion, for example, we should be able from a remote plane Boeing has filed patents, and many other companies to take control of an airplane, That is to say they can't do anything anymore, I think this technology It's not new. So that's one of the possibilities. At one point, We can do it from a computer, as we can do What if all of this was true? What if the Boeing had been By who ? Why ? Mystery again. But there is a catch. How to imagine in the bowels of the Boeing no engineer notices? I don't believe at all that computer on the plane do not say and but what is this box? And that would mean they lied I have rarely seen an investigation is at all levels. - I am sure there is one who knows I'm sure the info is hidden and without a doubt I am convinced that there are a number of people who have a small piece of the puzzle, a soldier who heard. For running an airline, I can't imagine in a company many people For families it must be just plain disgusting. And I totally understand what must these Chinese families have, who are directly It's a bit of desperation and we say to ourselves: &quot;But when are we going to know?&quot; Will I know one day? There are people who tell me: I do not know. Ghyslain Wattrelos until we have explained to him why his wife in the MH370 tragedy.