- We are here outside witnessing a caravan of (audience laughing) to have more white people (audience laughing) had this many New Yorkers he was doing it to (audience laughing) - Trump rally to the right. - To the right, folks. Come on. Okay, whoops, sorry. Wait, wait, wait. Let me just stand right here. - I'm good, I'm good. - Okay, you're good, you're good. Okay. (chuckling) - USA. (audience cheering) - Look at you. My God, look at this getup. Holy crap! I almost wore that, you know? But thankfully, my meds kicked in. (speaker laughing) - Because it's absurd. Where are you two from? - Annapolis, Maryland. So tell me, since you how many times have you been murdered? (speakers laughing) So you're a big Trump fan. - Yes. - I tell you what, at least Kamala- - It was like a coup, right? They handed her the nomination. - You're right. - But she still has to get past Trump. - Yes. is very hard to do without pepper spray. (audience laughing) oh, it's a Nazi rally, right? - That is true. - Now this is nothing like a Nazi rally. The Nazis were in shape, first of all, they took care of themselves unlike this guy over here, right? Seriously, when I look at you, makes me think that groceries (audience laughing) (audience applauding) Hi kid, hi kid, it's not the Nazi rally. I hate when people use that term, when they call Trump a Nazi. - Right? - He's the candidate preferred by Nazis. (upbeat music) (audience exclaiming) Here's another issue that Am I right? - It's crazy right now. - Can you believe it's costing Elon Musk $1 million per voter It's a disgrace. The Democrats are running - Yeah. in this election. - What would you say to people worried about losing that right, aside from what is it like to have sex? - I do not believe that they should be pouring across our borders. - Foreigners are destroying American jobs. - That is true. - Did you know that just caused 6,000 people to (speaker chuckling) This guy, Elon, something. - Well, that's a good point. That's a good point. - What's the biggest seller today? - Right here, this one, - You know what though, I got some merch. - What you got? - If he loses, the election was stolen. What if he wins you say? Look, the election was not stolen. (audience laughing) To commemorate the Trump rally I'm with 20,000 stupids, (audience laughing) - Wow! - I think it's gonna be a big seller. (audience cheering) A lot of Trump fan can wear this. If found, return to Staten Island. (audience laughing) up with some merch. I'm selling merch, you know? - Right. Here's what I got for you. - Trump condoms. (audience laughing) Here, here's what they look like. They have more value if you - Right. have any problem doing. (audience exclaiming) you can also have these. - These are the Arnold Palmer size. (speaker mumbling) - I think that's a lot. - I got a question for you. Are you going in? I wanted to speak, but they and we have way too many puppets already. Do you love RFK Jr.? - Yeah, RFK. - Okay, if you like RFK Jr., raise your hand as far (audience laughing) isn't he? - I mean, because being a And that man has sacrificed to endorse Donald Trump. - Oh! that's two of us who've (speaker laughing) - How much better is Kamala? Donald Trump doesn't need notes. - Donald Trump does and wander around the stage (audience laughing) - You can't put a soundtrack and laughter on this. - Oh, I don't need one. Listen to those people. - Listen. (audience cheering and applauding) (speaker laughing) Trust me, the Liberals are going nuts. (audience applauding) - I'm sorry, I don't mean to insinuate that Trump is out of his mind. I'm stating it (indistinct) Trump is out of his mind. - USA, USA. - [Speaker] Yeah. - (beep) Joe Biden. - I gotta say, it's a nice crowd, but a lot of angry white guys here. - Nah! What do you think is less likely that Haitians are eating cats? Or that any of the guys (audience laughing) (speaker mumbling) (speaker chuckling) (speaker mumbling) They don't (mumbling) (beep) Why do you think Trump had no- - This guy in the (indistinct) - When you get the punch - Is this microphone (beep) - Wait, I'm calling (speaker laughing) - Eh! these people are out of their minds. I'm gonna have to change into something that would command more (swooshing music) (audience cheering) Okay, let's do this! (audience cheering) Trump, Trump, Trump. Here we go. Look at my old friend, we both took a poop on Nancy Pelosi's desk, right? - I don't know about that. - I don't remember, come on. What a dump! What a dump we took in there! - Oh, here we go! Here we go! - [Speaker] We're storming the Capitol. - I wanna storm a Schnauzer's vagina. Who's with me? Folks, we're on the verge Can you feel it? - You know the other side, they'll talk about record high stock market But this election is that quote-unquote affect us. This election is personal. (upbeat music) Am I right? - Yeah. - It's about sticking it - Yeah. - Those elitist who hate billionaires. - Yeah. - But you know what, on they're gonna be the ones crying. And we are gonna be the ones drinking. - Yeah. - Liberal tears. Liberal tears. - Woo! Liberal tears Everybody Liberal tears (audience laughing) I love them salty Liberal tears I won't have Medicare in two years (audience laughing) But at least I know that (audience cheering) Liberal tears Liberal tears LIBRU (audience laughing) And Liberal tears The world's in the shiver But I'm spiteful and bitter We're all throwing mud And the oceans are flooding And just as a bonus Five billion Arizonas My candidates lying The planet is dying But Liberals are quiet So I say three cheers Hip hip hooray - Hooray! (attendee chuckling) Because my dream is to drown in them (upbeat music) Liberal tears (upbeat music) (audience applauding) - Oh, yes. Liberal tears. Woo! (audience cheering and applauding) (speaker mumbling) (audience applauding) (upbeat music)