There's no place to run, don't look for it . Someone's gone. Now it's just me and this old friend of mine. Well , then I'll make it happen. You put on your bayonet, good hunter. What's wrong ? It's a pity. You are now my mountain of prey. If every Chinese is like He is the same . Then it is impossible for us to win this war. You have a good journey, Brother Shunzi. You are here. Sister Kong Mei, you are back so soon. My wife, please help me find it . Don't forget what you promised me . It would be great if the wife I'm looking for is like you. She's as good as Cuilan. Heizi , I'll leave first. After that, you can discuss things on Qinglong Mountain with Brother Shunzi. I want to say something to you as brothers . You must listen to me. What are you doing? Don't do it alone. Cuilan, don't cry. I won't have to be angry with you anymore. You have to change your temper . Otherwise, you really won't be able to get married. Xiao Shitou , you will grow taller again . Brother Da Niu. I can't go hunting with you anymore. When it comes to archery, I 'll learn from your Heizi brother. When I learn how to use a hunting knife, I 'll learn from your Shunzi brother . Third Master , I will give you one more chance. Run up this mountain road . As long as you run out of my sight , I will let you go . Third Master, let's go . Third Master, let 's go. Shoot him and leave him to Tanaka. Wait, this is just Use the bait to catch that big fish. Go over and see Kuroko Junko and the others. I 'm the only one. Why? Come and save me by yourself . That's enough for me. Aren't you here to die? You and I owe you my life. I'll pay it back to you. It's just to keep you alive and well . You need to leave quickly. Let's go together. I 'm here just to take you out alive. My leg is so badly injured now. How can I walk ? Besides, the enemy is in the dark . How can we walk in the open ? Okay, I'll put him in the open. Look at his shooting skills. This must be Tanaka, the one under Yu Sakahara who has the most accurate shooting skills. It can't be wrong. As long as the two of us show their heads, they will be dead. I don't care what Tanaka is blocking my way. I'll kill him. Kai Heizi finally listened to his brother's words, &quot;Stay alive, there is no time. The Japanese army will arrive soon, right? Don't worry. I have led the army to Luohuapo. I guess Shunzi and the others have already arrived at the armory. Let's go. The Japanese seem to be here.&quot; It seems like they are waiting for us in front . Yes, the Japs did come. Many people came to look at them. They don't look like hunters. They are regular troops of the Eighth Route Army. Fujiwara led a small team forward fifty meters to outflank the right wing. You guys are following me. Captain, the Japs seem to have some. Action: They want to outflank us. We can't give them this chance . Don't be too eager to fight . Brothers, retreat and retreat quickly. Protect the Lieutenant Colonel. Protect the Lieutenant Colonel . We have planted so many bombs within a radius of five kilometers. Unless they grow wings, they will never be able to escape. It seems that our second barrier is no longer needed. Can you take a few people over to see? It's a small group hunting with me. The kings have all been killed. Move quickly. Move quickly. Move quickly. Waste, move quickly here. Move quickly. What's wrong with your captain? Stop chasing . Why don't you keep chasing ? I don't know how much more the devils will build tonight . You guys can fight the fortifications, black men . Look, brothers , two battles in one day have used up all their physical strength and energy. Our personnel have not suffered many casualties. Fighting does not only rely on people, but also breath . It will be difficult to talk about it again once the breath is vented . Okay , you guys. Don't talk about both. Our speed is already fast enough. We captured two lines of defense of the Japs in one day, which is already a big gain. Besides, it may not be beneficial to us if we continue to fight like this. What we have to worry about now is not the Japs, they are. We ourselves are the only ones who have gone deep in alone. If we encounter Igarashi's team gathering on Qinglong Mountain , we will be attacked from both sides. Kong Mei is right. We have consumed a lot of small stones today. Come back and report. By the way, let's replenish weapons. Let's keep fighting . I'll go too. Pay attention to safety and go back early. We're leaving. Your Excellency , Lieutenant Colonel, the Provincial City Garrison Army Headquarters has been informed of the current unfavorable situation in Qinglong Mountain and has dispatched reinforcements. They will be able to enter in about three days. Shan participated in the battle, please tell me. This is a detailed report. The commander-in-chief's subordinates are incompetent. The first barrier and the second barrier were all breached by the Eighth Route Army. As expected, as I expected, how are your injuries? How are your skin injuries ? There are still too few manpower. We have no way to build our country step by step. Didn't you say that reinforcements from the Eighth Route Army will arrive soon? Even if the reinforcements from the Eighth Route Army are able to join us, they will not be able to engage in a head-on battle with the enemy. We still do not have enough troops to hold on to the positions we have captured. This is still equivalent to Mobile warfare, what you mean is that every battle we have in the future must be as quick and decisive as today. It must be like this. We cannot fall into the quagmire of positional warfare. This will be very detrimental to us. Don't rush to get closer and fight blacks. Go and meet Qiang Sheng. I'll leave this to me. Who is the platoon leader Qiang Sheng ? You are the hunting king of Qinglong Mountain that the company commander said, right? It's Guobang who asked us to pick you up. Okay, stop talking. If your company commander is in danger, hurry up and come with me to help. Hunter King , go. You two brothers and comrades from the Eighth Route Army, come with me , go , go, don't move . If I'm not mistaken, it should be you that night, right? It's me. I didn't expect that you Eighth Route Army soldiers would actually stand by and watch your own people being buried without caring. As an invader, I don't think you will ever understand what it means to sacrifice one's life for justice and take the overall situation into consideration. As a Chinese, I don't think you will understand what it means either. In the spirit of Bushido, you are worthy of saying that Bushido is good. I will give you a chance. As a good sniper, the most basic thing is to know whether there are any bullets in your gun. I know that it is almost good. If you go forward, it may be dangerous . National Central China, Kuroko Aso, go over there and take a look at the hand grenade. He went to chase the Japanese. I just saw Kuroko. What did Kuroko leave? Let's go and see . The general attack started to speed up . Rush forward . I'll tell Sister Kong Mei that you are here watching the Kuroko explosive package. Explosive packs, hurry up and give fire to Sister Kong Mei to suppress it. A group of Japanese soldiers has appeared at the foot of the mountain. Oh no, the Japanese reinforcements have arrived. Come with me quickly. Shitou, hurry up and take a look at the situation on Sister Kong Mei's side. Cuilan, please be safe. Brothers, it's our turn . They are fighting for us on the front line. We can't stay here. Let's go and fight with the Japanese. Sister Kong Mei, why are you here ? Old Hunter King asked me to help you. You're useless here. You leave quickly. I won't leave. This thing is very important. I leave it to you, Brother Shunzi. Just listen to me and take it. Go quickly, be careful. I know , come on, come on, follow me , go and point the lead. Don't stop. Rush over to the stone for me. What are you wandering around here for ? Didn't I ask you to find your sister Kong Mei? Sister Kong Mei won't let me help her. I'm going to find brother Shunzi. I ca n't walk . Old Hunter King Heizi rushes over with all his strength . I'm going to be careful with Comrade Kong Mei. Let's block the enemy's bullets. You must light the explosive pack. Comrades, rush with me. Baga, go and kill. It seems that you are the one. You are the hunting king of Qinglong Mountain. You are the supreme commander of the Japanese army who occupied our Qinglong Mountain, Igarashi . I you to know how to use the method of pulling people under the cauldron to break through my impregnable defenses. It seems that you are not a simple mountain villager. How dare you kid ? Occupy my ancestral hall. Today I will let you apologize in front of my ancestors. Just the two of you. I said I will let you apologize in front of the ancestors of Qinglong Mountain. Brother Shunzi, Guobang Cuilan, go and save Mr. Kong Mei . Hunting King Ever since I, Wu Yongshun, became the Hunting King of Qinglong Mountain, the Japanese invaded China and my people have suffered many disasters. Although I tried my best to drive away the Japanese and take back Qinglong Mountain , and avenged the bloody vengeance for my people , I deeply feel that I am powerless, old Hunting King. In fact, Heizi is the one who is truly suitable to be the Hunting King of Qinglong Mountain. He is the one who can truly lead Qinglong Mountain to move forward. So today I want to hand over the position of Hunting King of Qinglong Mountain and the Hunting King Knife in front of you. To Heizi Heizi, you are truly the most suitable person to be the hunting king of Qinglong Mountain . During this period, everyone has seen your abilities. Cuilan and Heizi , one of you is my sister and the other is my brother. I am ashamed of you, and I am even more ashamed of Qinglong Mountain . But Heizi, I believe you will take good care of Cuilan. Kong Mei, Kong Mei, she is really staying, but I have to leave Qinglong Mountain. Kong Mei, she is right, as long as the Japanese invaders are still rampant on Chinese soil, this war will last forever. I haven't finished the fight , so I want to go out. I want to go out and see the outside world. Continue to fight the Japanese to the end. It seems that you have decided to leave Qinglong Mountain. Well , I will keep this hunting king knife for you first. If it is empty, come back and take a look. Look, everyone, no matter how good the outside world is, don't forget that Qinglong Mountain is your Wu Yongshun's home. Hold Kong Mei. In fact, until today, I don't know if I really understand you , but I really want to thank you, thank you and us. The people of Qinglong Mountain have walked a road of life and death together. You have not only changed us, but also changed yourself. Don't worry, I will help you continue on the road you have not yet finished. Shunzi , I want to leave, and I also want to stay. This is This is the first time and the last time I am talking to you in this way. In the past few days, I have re-thought our situation: From the overall situation, the cruelty of this war has gradually exceeded my imagination and overflowed my ideals. But it It's impossible to bury my faith and go back to the mountains. These days, I've been thinking about why you never kept me. It wasn't until Cuilan told me that I suddenly realized that I had underestimated you. I thought you were just cut off from the love of children and just wanted to be leisurely. Cuilan, an ordinary person who lives a happy life, is my good sister. Although I never wanted to , I still pulled you away from her unintentionally. It is helpless that love in a troubled world cannot be worth the care of the family and the country. We Communists do not believe in the afterlife. I will meet you in this life. Wu Yongshun returned to Qinglong Mountain half a year later and established the Qinglong Mountain Anti-Japanese Guerrilla Force under the leadership of the Party.