Good morning, everybody, and welcome back to VG has officially ripped off Nathaniel Bandy. After released to the bloodthirsty masses, and for some I'm the only person in the world bad enough at Nathaniel Bandy, but I guess I'm a close second. The rules will be very familiar. We're doing single-player campaign with the ultimate goal as possible. Quote unquote &quot;Segmented&quot; means we as are necessary to lower our score. Each level you accomplish that level's goal. But there's a complicated than back in Octo Expansion. Splatoon Progress in these hub areas can't be reset by with a normal level. For that reason, they're a In order to get a better score on the hub areas file. I highly recommend doing it right the first place, we're using basically the same rules as shots in whatever way I felt was most fitting. once per target hit, so holding the ZR button down other weapons will increment the counter by 1 when ink either all at once or in a volley once per guns that has never been relevant until now: if works, ink doesn't always travel its full meaning it's nearly impossible to shoot something to mention with a machine gun it's difficult to with precisely the correct ink blob that took surfaces behind them accidentally. If we counted things would start getting absurdly complicated we only count surfaces as targets if 1) You fire 2) Inking that surface helps you in some tangible you understand this is the best ruleset I could square millimeter of footage frame-by-frame. Also, videos, there are no semantics with quote unquote majority of weapons in this campaign aren't Hero context-sensitive vacuum cleaner, if something is function of the weapon will increment the counter. about some weapons, but we'll get there when we For now, let's get this run started! we have to complete Splatoon 3's tutorial. and after a short walk you'll be locked in how to shoot. I tried sitting back but like Splatoon 2's tutorial before it, this your hands. This immediately adds 2 shots as minimalist. With that done, rush to the end Important note for ultra purists, it is past the title screen. I personally don't consider only my very biased opinion, so if you insist, Now we can finally drop into the Crater and of the two hub areas, featuring only four immediately presented with a problem: each which must be attacked to open the lock. The little buddy, Small Fry, who completely ignores beat all four levels to exit the Crater, the Crater Level 1: us clear the way up to this first Switch, which directly spread ink, hitting those Pufferfish which can hit the switch no problem. but provided you left the other two Pufferfish all the way back up to full, letting you Crater Level 2: paths, you'll eventually be stopped at this wall, Splashdown could theoretically ink the wall, but ink for us. You can charge up a little by having near enough to reach full charge. However, there been paying real close attention in all three out how. If you plop near the edge of friendly same surface. The Special guage only cares that while slow, plopping is an entirely valid method an incredibly tedious one, so I highly recommend painless as possible. First, remap the Swim button comfortable mashing. Over an extended period of learning proper technique. Tilt the analog stick forward, and tap the Swim button at a relatively plop properly. With just the right angle and snail's pace. Third, and most important, make Squids are a good first step, but if you're face. Once proving yourself the face-painting Be sure to hug the wall directly, otherwise to repeat Kindergarten. With the wall inked Crater Level 3: with a very simple roadblock: the inkrail be opened with a key down a very small ledge. The normally requiring you to ink it. That's no near the key for enough of a height boost. From through the upper fence and back above the ledge. strat after-the-fact. With a very precise Smallfry proceed without need for the key. We can grab but in order to reach the boxes they go to we appear to be any friendly ink around which but look closer. The checkpoint pad is legally you can actually plop at its edge to spread it painting pretty pictures to charge up special and the way immediately, remember, you can still plop Crater Level 4: this one is the simplest with absolutely With all four Crater levels beaten, the final hair glob will appear. Throwing Smallfry at DJ Octavio: so I'm gonna come right out and tell ya you're not to progress, you must Splat either of Octobot's himself will be launched out of Octobot. Once must repeat the process until Octavio has been not happening with Smallfry. The fists require a far more than Smallfry is capable of dealing can't charge up our special through plopping, when the fight begins. You might think you some ink from the blast, but alas, that feature options exhausted, we take our first shot. Not one barrage you can cover it enough to charge your and enjoy that sinking realization that you're the floor. Each charge will take even longer attacking and forcing you to dodge out of until Octavio is launched into the arena for the but don't be so hasty: you're under absolutely plop up Special while Octavio watches in send Smallfry to Splat Octavio and enter Phase 2. already charged up special you can get a two-fer Splashdown. Octavio will start using the Octobot's it's totally a good idea to throw Smallfry at it, the vacuum does is negate your airborne ink within Just keep charging up and expending Splashdowns, and after roughly 6 hours of concussions, you'll With that, we leave the Crater and where we'll be spending the rest of the game. The area such that the only accessible landmark in which you'd earn enough Power Eggs to clear You might be tempted to accept inevitability and seahorses. Floating in a circle along the edge of Eggs. This Balloon will respawn when the player if this balloon floats within range we can farm frustratingly float just slightly too far to hit, access to a normally useless binocular platform. surfaces just like checkpoints, and you can plop the same. Spread this ink all over the nearby is coming within range, do a swimming jumping increasing Smallfry's distance just enough to but unfortunately we need 600 total to land this super precise throw 6 total times. spend your time while waiting for the balloon immediately die a painful death. The Balloon's will let you get back to the corner quickly. don't worry, I've actually got one more special By the time you figure out what was With 6 well-timed throws, you'll have 600 Power glob without firing a shot. That's not the end of entering any levels, and there are tons of hair more Power Eggs to clear, but from now grinding for why we're even grinding in the first place: which can be used to unlock upgrades in the Hero Splat Bombs, Burst Bombs, and Curling Bombs. Your the closest to the beginning of the upgrade tree, decided to make kettles explosion-proof this time enter any levels. Instead, make the even-longer deal melee damage on contact, and that melee thus finally granting us a method to enter a clearing levels at this point since they're way ahead a bit and let you know you can 100% complete However, that doesn't mean your Hero Gear 9 more Sardinium inaccessible to Level 9999: Big Man and Both of these two are relatively easy to beat Burst Bombs, both of which you can unlock in swim form seem to have regenerating yourself to death you'll eventually win Level 9999: Frye you must Splat each of the masked eels that appear carryover of how many eels you've splatted between if you can't splat them all on the quick you'll not you'll have enough time is largely dependent attack is Eel Vision, during which the eels will from explosives. You could also theoretically hit of a caveat: Frye only becomes vulnerable for Splashdown charged specifically to deal damage to on a giant group of eels if the opportunity you might be able to recharge Splashdown before endurance battle, but with a lot of patience Now that you have all the Sardinium, the buying almost all of it, with the caveat that actually downgrades in disguise, permanently and an insufferable beeping noise. Otherwise, I on the tree early. The Smallfry damage increase one-shotting most enemies With the upgrade tree finished, let's *finally* get to the part of the Level 0101: this is one of the easiest in the game, especially but what if hypothetically you didn't know about upgrades? Early on in routing this run I did the off! When trying to get one of the keys, there's with the Trizooka special. Instead, do a running direction to land back on solid ground. With towards you. For the last key, since we don't have a Splashdown to get up this first wall. Up above Splashdown, but no worries! You can mess with the get it to make a low enough arc and you can it to the top, no ink required. Even without Level 0102: choice of three loadouts to use. Remember if you none of your purchased upgrades apply. that's almost always the correct choice, since subweapons in addition to all the passive buffs. straight line to the goal, so with Burst In addition, to save on time, I'll just quickly seen on screen now, can be cleared Shotless goals that allow subweapons, levels built where you literally don't have a gun in the first Level 0108: So I'm checking my notes and not even looking and uh this is the one that they just copy-pasted History's greatest squid researchers the best conclusion with our primitive modern-day Level 0109: While we don't have Burst Bombs, we are given inking and Splatting potential. Near the end Bomb throw to take out four Shielded Octarians. them in the hopes it stays bouncing up on take out the shield or get a lucky throw that Level 0204: might be giving you Octo Expansion flashbacks, inkrail segment seen in that game. Burst Bombs are easily in the first two checkpoints. The only very durable orange box. Rather than just spamming time and you'll have more than enough ink to take Level 0205: I mention this level only in case you hadn't as its subweapon, which does not increment Level 0207: with no subweapons, which I'm sure you realize we'll need one shot on the inkwheels at the of inking the wall up and triggering the geyser. and inkwheels. Normally you'd expend another in a chain reaction, but hold on a second. even though these switches are elevated a plopping the adjacent ground. If you've got a few thus shaving a shot. The next section has no such to extend the inkline. There's an upcoming sniper which you can very simply hop around. I'm have to fire a shot to open the goal, Level 0208: that on multiple separate occasions I thought I dragged me screaming back. To ease us in, and get let's finish the level normally. We're trying to switch is hit, the block it's attached to will space to create a tower toward the goal, with all and the bridge toward it will extend. Before switch across a gap. While a grounded bomb at the angle makes it difficult, and I've found it's more note, bombs seem to be explicitly programmed to so if you were hoping for a midair detonation, can be inked with grounded bombs no problem. requiring 1 Shot. Switch #5 is unforgiving: you but obviously that means the boxes will break in Switch #6 is too high, requiring Shot #2. Switch ceiling behind it. I've tried both throwing bombs directly under, but both have been unsuccessful, on one of the switch's edges. I assume this is it's actually possible to ink the switch with #9 is very simply too high up to hit, requiring to finish the level. That means 4 shots to beat feeling a little bit demonic? Remember, the blocks try to exit the maze in ways that would throw the hitch a ride. This is even a dev-intended trick, hold on one second: since each block moves to its trigger all blocks above the one we hitch a ride climb the incomplete tower up to the goal. In the block we ride would require 1 shot each. since plopped ink refuses to travel between we'll have to hitch a ride on as high a block as same side of the blocks above it as we can. The before entering the maze. Riding it is out of the either its left or right side by throwing a bomb before it takes off. We don't normally have enough after inking the switch, though. But, pay close raises IS inkable ground, and before hitting With a very precise and lucky splat bomb throw, allowing us to dip in and paint a generous pool get back to trying to ink the switch, always If you minmax your time properly, you'll be able for. Keep in mind you want your ink to land as upside down on its trip to the tower. Block #2 respectively. As established previously, #2. As for inking its sides, it seems too high that for later. Block #3 we're fully capable of but once we arrive you'll notice a problem: reasons. You might think that makes Block #3 a our sleeves. Ink up both the switch side of the Now for the outer wall. While bombs can't detonate while falling off a ledge while still technically the proper angle to ink the outer wall. Now you on the wall to spread it up to the block. With all Normally, if you'd inked Block #1 properly now and could very easily Squid Surge up. too far to reach with a Squid Surge. Very very hopeless minutes throwing my controller out yet another trick. If you very quickly exit and you'll be allowed to enter ink higher than usual, 1 singular Shot! This level alone delayed this level in the entire Splatoon 3 minimum gun run. Level 0302: This level's incredibly easy in 0 Shots, have to dodge the missiles, you can Level 0305: definitively impossible, since we don't have Flingza Roller is the easy obvious choose. Roller can keep that one shot going by keeping the ZR You can even jump while in melee mode to hit upper this stage in 1 shot. Eventually you'll need to held down, entering Swim mode exits melee mode, swimming. That means refilling ink functionally we just need to minmax our ink a bit better! mode. Ink is not expended if the roller isn't boxes and your ink will last just long enough to Level 0306: You might be happy seeing Burst Bombs, but hardest levels in the entire game. We have meaning we need to hit roughly 1 per second. even when factoring in multikills. Taking shots HUGE question mark. What isn't a question is Nozzlenose. It fires in bursts, meaning a single are clumped together, so we'll be taking our shots Best Score: 4 Shots. Though I will note, I I've decided I don't hate myself enough right now. Expansion if you hit the Mission Complete trigger beating the level. In Splatoon 3, basketball you're a dead corpse, whether your dead Level 0404: option here is a preset loadout with Smallfry, upgrades. While not particularly difficult, this in some tight spots without much room to move enemy health. This includes an encounter with the ink from your soaker block and leave you at Level 0405: ones I was dreading: the return of the adorable we have to destroy some of the boxes on one other. Unlike the Octo Expansion equivalents we allowing for totally shot-free box clearing. The deals splash damage near its point of impact. On box break, guaranteeing that you'll be dealing at once broken. The hardest section to clear will 1-box spaces inbetween intact boxes, a very the splash damage radius increases when a box is not break. Butter up the boxes you need to break so when a box-breaking splash inevitably occurs, leaving the others technically intact. Once the lap. Despite the stress, I was able to clear this Level 0406: This target practice level seems like it'll be destroyed with one Burst Bomb and give you more though: a single orange box halfway through. impossible to damage enough by the time the why wait for it to enter our range? While the ink the side of the stage near the fence. When the swim over and up the side of the arena, take the fence itself. This effectively increases getting in a few early burst bombs, just enough Level 0407: and no subweapons, this level absolutely requires considered to get the count as low as possible. save for two Snipers. The walls they sit on and the edges around the wall extend too far to default. Then we reach the final area: a fortress of which needing to be splatted to proceed. This fortress at least partially, and there's no way or inking walls ourselves. Ever conveniently, this for multikills while also being directly in line Roll at the top of the upper wall and you can take out both Snipers with one shot, then all set of enemies can be done in a very simple and a single sniper and a barrier-producing Octodisco it requires 2 shots to Splat, so you might but there's still shave potential. Sit at just angle. Eventually the Octodisco will get bored one more shot to finish off the Octodisco, then Level 0408: like it'll be hell, but no worries! This is likely giving almost no targets and plenty of time to pop where you might need to slow down slightly, Level 0410: but this time you stand in place and each set float away after their pattern completes, and popped. While Fail Balloons pop instantly from a single splash damage hit regardless of distance, are relatively easy. The fourth set I genuinely impossible. It's impossible to pop most of damage to at least one Fail Balloon, inevitably I have good news: failure is an entirely valid half an hour, the game took pity on me and opened targets yet. I have absolutely no idea why this with targets that take splash damage getting not supposed to and most of the time don't. An the two balloons left over will still be in play if you don't pop them within about 10 seconds the you. That's only a mild inconvenience, so go ahead which is difficult to figure out but certainly Level 0412: This level is a simple connect-the-dots drawing subweapons. This naturally means we use 1 Shot actually connect the dots, followed by 1 to ink I will note I did briefly look into plopping ink first shot, but there's an uninkable surface Level 0507: Splatoon dev in the distance. &quot;Wouldn't it be if we made a grindrail level with Splat Bombs and wouldn't you know it, Splatoon's devs are and you'll need ludicrously perfect aim to get center of the first ring, get on the rail, and be hit will well-timed throws directly at their place. Remember to stall to recharge ink along both of which are relatively easy to land a a bomb on them doesn't seem viable, since even so here we take Shot #1. Next, several more sets make bomb throws very forgiving, just aim for two very cool-feeling throws in the center of bombs on, and that even looks like it should didn't work out. If a bomb exploded at all it a glitch where the bomb would apparently think That means we take Shot #2. The upcoming stack of Hello, good morning, it's unscripted like I already did almost everything, and... just- you can throw a bomb into the center, it's on my- on th- the successful attempt, I threw a in the center. But the first bomb- the first up in like the infinite not exploding glitch simultaneously with the second bomb, and that's The diagonal orientation of the next on them long enough to explode, so The next linear set of diagonal boxes has the circle around an orange box with a small yellow time to blow them both up. I have absolutely let alone in the extremely tight time window, so total shots. I'm reasonably confident this extreme TAS shenanigans, but please let Level 0510: but thankfully this time we actually have Burst We have more than enough time to hit every and once you reach said tower you've practically jumping throws, and you'll be safely dropped Level 0512: presented with a midair switch that must be you'll realize we already have a strat. Get down to explode at the absolute last possible moment switch is close enough that it will get inked by room with three Octarians on the ceiling, all with exploding a bomb on the bag in the center of too far away, so instead we take 1 shot with the of the level can be traversed mostly easily with do not immediately splat the switch. If you do, since it's split between two blocks. Beforehand, a precise splotch, you'll be able to ink ink the switch as usual, plop up the wall, and Level 0604 challenge was actually already designed for so you can very easily walk past every Level 0607: This level is under a soft time limit, with below segment by segment. Don't panic, though, will only begin falling when you set foot on completely safe, so before jumping up, sit on ensuring you always have enough for a Burst Level 0610: special. That means our only shotless method of this gap with ink sticks, you can get through the side of the ink stick, wait for the inkfurler you're intended to fire at the Inkfurler across forward you'll get a bit of extra height, letting flying Octarians, all of whom must be Splatted to and will fly out of your range quickly, so you'll them low to the ground and adjacent to the tall they exit Alert mode, hop to the top of the pillar in one go and they've got regenerating health, so If done well you'll hit them again before they for a Splat. Repeat with every member of four hopping Octarians. These guys are much and re-enter your ink, you can gradually approach. and promptly forget you exist. Corral them theoretically trying not to bounce off the to their deaths. Repeat 4 times to continue to the simply impossible, with a gigantic gap we have no then avoid the judging eyes of Smallfry Level 0611 because it was still fun! Go with the Burst Bomb can also exploit the very stupid AI. This is best right, and you can get them stuck in a pattern, noting of substance done and eventually succumbing Level 0612 is activated with ZR, and is thus off limits. We Ultra Stamp loadout we'll have infinite ammo. Not easier time than in my casual playthrough. Throws That marks the end of every main level. Next much buildup at all, since these levels are all Hero Gear. One important note is that we're based on information given by the game. In the first four stages, if you attempt to return allowed to skip any stages you've previously align its skips with the loading screen labels, Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the final boss fight is incredibly easy shotless, but Phase 2 is where Octobot King to vacuum hair globs off Mr. some semantics and say the vacuum actually gives but hell no! We're fully committing to sucking the vacuum as each unique session of vacuuming. the cockpit, that shot ends and further use of There are four hair blobs we need to hit, waves of enemies will appear while vacuuming you'll instantly be ejected from the cockpit. of enemies waits until you begin vacuuming before ink form and must travel from the hair glob to the Get as close to the glob as possible, start stopping as you near the edge of the vacuum's single shot! There's still a problem though, which When the Glob explodes we're ejected from the probably already noticed, that does *not* cause to do that manually, meaning if we don't let go of we'll inevitably be taking an extra shot with the very particular and obscure piece of knowledge I ever wondered what happens if you press both the right now, and comment below what happens. About priority and about half are gonna say that ZR took Turns out, the game doesn't directly prioritize prioritize whichever of the two buttons was most press and hold R, you'll aim your subweapon, but you'll shoot your gun. See where this is going? King, with one crucial difference: without a be interrupted. But even so, the R button was thus once you're ejected from the cockpit the letting go of R, and you're golden! 4 seemingly One important but currently inconsequential note: you're supposed to be targeting. However, as pointless. I spent a ton of time vacuuming plus upon reaching the point where I was supposed full health. As mentioned previously, Glob any enemies, making it easy to take out with 1 so I'm pretty sure doing it in just 1 shot isn't skip the second wave of enemies and take it out same way. I hope that doing it in 2 shots might and have only done it in 3 even with minmaxing. the rest is a victory lap! Fire one very big and and for all! With the physical manifestation of the next manifestation in the form of DLC, The score of 46 shots! But &quot;final&quot; is in quotation and there just so happens to be a tiny asterisk Level 0000: After Alterna so while theoretically this is the hardest level it is about the same difficulty as a casual run. in, I recommend finally buying both sensor least one practical purpose in this level, so the first loadzone, you'll need to jump through these are the same platforms rotating around thrown down will stay there. Spend a few minutes giving you a simple and easy path to jump across. again, a grindrail target-shooting mission. including access to both Burst Bombs and max going to be the hardest grindrail mission in the throwing Burst Bombs for speed and throwing ink recharges. All the while, you'll need to be otherwise you don't have a hope of popping every in order to recharge our ink efficiently, we time when we jump. If you jump out of ink, you'll However, you can't recharge ink at all while of subtracting. After throwing out a Burst Bomb, recharge. Otherwise, you'll need to carefully aim balloons with each Burst Bomb whenever possible. helps. After multiple downward spirals, you'll every balloon in time would normally not be that for hopping between rails is very forgiving in between them for no reason. I recommend trying to Every balloon is still within range, and having easier to avoid. With that set done, you'll move upward climb surrounding groups of balloons which near the center will combo all three. If you miss can hop off the rail and land back on it a floor until a freefall with the final set. You might be indeed the correct strategy! If you're lucky, your spawning the final rail to save you from a mode. Loadzone 3 is a totally simple and easy simple and very lightly challenging battle suggested grabbing the sensor upgrades, seeing the edge. It isn't totally necessary though, keep your Smallfry one by one. With the final final level Before heading out, special thanks to who helped shave the shot count down by sending once again, a collaborative effort, you. And just a reminder: the final And finally, special thanks to Let me know how much this video comments below! Ba-nun-nun-nun-nun By the way I forgot to feed the elephant it's