There's no denying it. America loves its guns. why America is so great is the relative ease of suggest that there are more guns in the U.S. than statistic (which we'll explore a bit more later), should have more than enough weapons to take down is a bit complex, as you might expect. Let's start help determine if U.S. citizens can hold their own is widely considered among the most heavily the next seven nations combined, and totaling on their militaries, the U.S. is definitely the on improving the country's armed forces has led to beyond its borders. As a result, the U.S. military spread across 80 countries - that's excluding the be particularly accurate, with some reports military bases is higher. But this has led to an is not the largest military in the world. More personnel of all branches of the U.S. Armed this number is likely to start shrinking, but more comparison, there are two countries that have far This makes sense when you consider the countries' approximately 1.4 billion people, while the U.S. census, with an estimate of around 346 million around 3.4 million active military personnel, it has a larger proportion of its residents in the bases we mentioned earlier come into effect deployed over 170,000 soldiers to international the number of active military personnel in the people. Why is this number important, you may ask? this video. "There are more guns than people in and you get a staggering result. If push came to government or create a widespread insurrection, 300 million guns. This isn't just a conjecture. and Social Science (the AAPSS) suggests that there the U.S., with an upper estimate of as many as close to the estimated gun-to-citizens ratio. census suggests the American population is 331 around 255 million, giving even more credence to use them. However, much like income and wealth, U.S. That's where the more nuanced demographics around a third of people who own guns in the U.S. two guns. The same data suggests that people who civilian gun stock in the U.S., and people who own continues relatively linearly for owners of three, 23% of people who own six or more guns account the U.S. Why is this important? Well, in the over two-thirds of the guns (discounting the ones itself) would be under the control of less than a statistics on who owns how many guns also point us As you might correctly assume, not everyone owns (in more ways than one) between the U.S. military on the same research by AAPSS, slightly more than survey conducted by Pew Research suggests that at around 30%. While the 5% discrepancy between be just over 16.5 million people, the practical guns owned by civilians, a vast majority of most scenarios, people who own multiple guns might the fact that people who do own multiple weapons are empty and the accompanying ammunition country-wide uprising against the government has giving away their weapons to help arm a larger be? According to Pew Research, the pervasive gun citizens having direct experience with firing a survey suggests that as many as 70% of the U.S. more than half of the respondents who said they there's a significant probability the military experience handling a weapon, which would likely an actual combat scenario. But there's a slight in what types of guns and how many of them each it has divided guns into four broad categories: Out of these, two categories of weapons - pistols guns in the country, and the other two - revolvers pistols and rifles are pretty much neck and neck population. The AAPSS estimates there are over owned by civilians. For pistols, there's no in the country. Some of the most popular models and SIG Sauer P365. For rifles, the matter gets subcategories of rifles that are used across rifles are fairly prevalent among U.S. civilians, category. However, the country arguably has the with an upper estimate of as many as 63 million With this in mind, recent trends suggest that AR-15, have started to pick up steam, so to is due to their reliability and increased fire Why is the last point so important? Well, in an and its civilians, the type of guns available will A vast majority of people have either pistols guns become less and less useful at longer ranges as armed U.S. military personnel). Of course, convenient and don't take up too much space and campaign against the U.S. government, their actual minimal. Pistols are practical deterrents for home military conflict. The second most common type bolt- and lever-action rifles. These can be used for hunting. This is mostly due to their high allows them to be repaired or unjammed by relative these rifles are also typically heavy and have bolt-action rifles do see some use, being snipers rather than direct combat soldiers who This gives these historical rifles a potential long-range, guerilla-type warfare. In rural while the low fire rate could be compensated regions. Meanwhile, in urban areas, they could latter scenario, however, the military is unlikely take high ground and maintain favorable sniping one of the least common guns the U.S. civilians can be used in a theoretical conflict against these weapons owned are far more than what the there are only just over one million U.S. soldiers be called to fight against the civilians in a rifles could be enough to give the U.S. civilians significant caveats. First, the U.S. military advantages that the modern U.S. Armed Forces high-tech, reliable weapons and vehicles to bear access to roughly 3,500 tanks that can be deployed vehicle squads, and a grand total of over 270,000 on the ground. Then, there is also what is fighters and multipurpose jets in the world, the sky over America. Of course, fighter jets are civilians acting as self-governing militia. To AH-64 Apache can make short work of infantry. The that are so powerful, they don't even have a 30-mil explosive round creates a shockwave effects on enemy infantry. The fragmentation and killing wounds to multiple people at once. And such as long-range ballistic missiles capable of to use lethal force against its own citizens, fight only with their weapons and not the vehicles to the U.S. projecting most of its military a significant portion of its equipment is bases outside of the country. The insurgent force could use their large numbers and access to more to provide a satisfactory result that would end could probably transport its equipment back to the in the conflict. But you might think that the U.S. be counterproductive to the concept of quelling an the Interstate Highway System was designed ferry vehicles and equipment across states in the Soviet Union back during the Cold War. to destroy so much infrastructure to prevent vital parts of the government they want to take need to bring out their vehicles and airplanes. been used to great effect in taking down singular 2010s. The same technology and equipment would proposed range of modern military drones is rated to strike a target practically across the country. offshore carriers and boats, where the civilian shut the systems down. In effect, an insurgency than the U.S. military's partial failure in Iraq forced to work under strict conditions and only use in the conflict. Furthermore, the local relatively unnavigable by vehicles, with hideaway spots where they could hide and launch its vehicles into highly-populated cities, as it and civilian casualties. But in the U.S., the disappears, as the soldiers would be much more of their own people. Another factor that comes event that the U.S. military is forced to quell likely find themselves running out of ammunition military was pushed into a war of attrition Pakistan kept sending ammunition to fuel the local to enter those countries, it had no real way of the countries it tried to pacify. In the U.S., different. The U.S. is a major manufacturer of manufacturers work on contracts with the U.S. also owned and operated by civilians. This will much stopping and both sides needing to rely on will likely have considerably more resources to and it might be able to leverage its alliance with the short term. But what if the U.S. insurgents try to fight in primarily urban areas? This its numerically inferior troops and guns or on its door to door to remove insurgents will likely make than traditional battlefield warfare since that Marine purviews, something that not all soldiers gun ownership statistics are starting to work have the highest population densities (which imply are typically those that have the lowest rates of gun ownership ratio of 245 guns per 1,000 people, (after Alaska) and a total population of slightly populations can more than make up for that. This and Florida - a distinct fighting chance. These guns each (with Texas having over one million guns the centers of the American insurgency and share are all states with significant U.S. military Force, with Virginia hosting the Pentagon. This the U.S. military to bring out the "big guns" to of these key points. However, there's another fight against its own citizens? There are two laws to respond to civil unrest in the country: the Act of 1878. The first allows the president to Guard to address an insurrection that prevents federal government from using the Army, Navy, and However, the National Guard and the Coast allowing local state or county governments to the U.S. military was deployed at least five with the most recent events being the murder Angeles Riots of 1992. In both events, thousands National Guard needed to be called in. The riots local governments to call in their guardsmen thousands of arrests. In our hypothetical scenario down the government, the scale of the insurrection with civilians trying to remove local governments could invoke the Insurrection Act and deploy the military itself is under the command of is a civilian position and, per the Department authorize military intelligence to work with local be an appropriate response. This means that the as an all-out conflict between citizens and the civilian. Additionally, the U.S. soldiers take obey their officers or the chain of command. makes an order that could be construed as going it's highly likely that the soldiers are simply matter of the chain of command being composed of are entire swaths of lawyers who would hopefully on the best course of action at a given time, it's of the chain is understood to be determined to be at the time. Once a lawful order is given, the it out since it's a part of their duties. However, that has spiraled into a full-blown revolutionary but still based on Congress making the right an insurrection does happen and that the U.S. it. What would be the result? Well, there's it's unlikely that the insurrection would involve be pockets of anti-government resistance spread tactics for the U.S. Army to counter them. In most guns, courtesy of a larger overall population rate. However, between its vehicles, long-range drones, the U.S. Army would have more firepower. long enough, civilians would no longer be able as domestic production would peter out and the On the other hand, the U.S. military still a government that is not supported by its dragging down the military's ability to buy fuel more equipment. As both sides continue fighting, are unlikely to continue supporting either the majority of the population, and the soldiers their own people just to follow orders. If the lead to U.S. states dividing alongside ideological which is currently unconstitutional. However, requires a vote supermajority in the House and This might be more difficult to achieve if parts the government. But if the entire country goes a sign that the U.S. would no longer exist did. The societal collapse that would prompt would be indicative of a failure on such a the potential for the collapse would more likely the entire conflict in the first place. But who the U.S. military and civilians? Let us know in go check out What If the U.S. Army Declared War