- [Jared] This is the the most advanced robot In this video, we'll take the Atlas V launch, the journey to Mars, and the scientific instruments that allow it to study the surface. (dissonant electronic music) This video is sponsored by Morning Brew. (dramatic ethereal music begins) On February 18, 2021, the Perseverance rover successfully touched down on Mars. It costs a total of 2.5 It has many scientific instruments to help study Mars and prepare the way for Perseverance is of course not Sojourner was in 1997, a very small rover, and here's a person for size comparison. Spirit and Opportunity, in 2004. These were identical rovers sent just a few weeks Curiosity landed in 2012 and then Perseverance in 2021, same size as Curiosity, but This is not a complete list. This just shows the most recent rovers sent by NASA in the United States. For most of this video, I'll NASA designs and builds the at the Jet Propulsion This took about eight years and testing to get It was built in a clean room that's free from dust It's designed to work on another planet, different atmosphere, different gravity, and most of all no repair station. It has to be engineered so well that it can last for years on its own. On top of that, it has so it can fit inside Once it was ready to go, the and then flown across the United States to Kennedy Space Center in Florida. This is where the launch that NASA has been launching Perseverance was installed along with several other components that went along for the journey to Mars. We'll talk about each one of these pieces later in the video. This was all put inside then taken to the rocket and This rocket is called an Atlas V. It's made by a company called or ULA for short. Let me point out that the rover was actually upside down for the launch. The best time to launch to If we show this with the correct scale, you can barely even see the Sun. For this animation, I'm so we can see this a little better. For the Earth to get around the Sun, it takes exactly one year, right? No surprises there. Mars, on the other hand, to get around the Sun. The best time to launch is right before Earth This is called a Launch Window, and it happens about every 26 months. Perseverance was launched (dramatic ethereal music continues) The four solid rocket boosters At 1:49, they are jettisoned, At 3:27, the payload which exposes the spacecraft. Next up, the main At 4:28, the main booster is separated, and it will fall back to the Earth. This is called the Centaur Stage. Its main engine now fires up. This is what gets us into At 11:30, the engines shut off. This is called the Coast Phase. We'll stay here for about a half-hour. It's a good time to check that everything is still And then, we relight the This is called the Earth Escape Burn. This is what gets us Then the spacecraft separates. It's traveling at 41,000 and it will take about Our spacecraft is made up of a few pieces. Here's the rover, all folded This has eight rocket engines on it. The Heat Shield, which slows us down through the atmosphere The Backshell, which protects the rover as it descends to the surface of Mars. And this is the Cruise Stage, and thrusters, and also keeps This whole assembly stays together during the seven-month journey to Mars. We'll need to adjust We do this with the thrusters on the side of the cruise stage. This is called a Trajectory and there are several of (dramatic ethereal music continues) Landing on the surface of Mars They call this EDL, or often nicknamed the 7 Minutes of Terror. This is because, if anything goes wrong, it will likely fail to get the At the time of landing, it for any signals to reach Earth. This is, of course, traveling the fastest that we It doesn't seem very fast, does it? 11 minutes is a long time. To put this in perspective, light takes just over When the Apollo astronauts NASA could communicate with It would take about 2 1/2 On Mars, this is completely different. If something goes wrong Mission Control won't hear and any reply would to get all the way back. By this point, it will already be over, either a safe landing or a crash. This means the computers, must be smart enough to do EDL: Entry, Descent, and Landing. Let's follow this through step by step. About 10 minutes before the Cruise Stage is detached Small thrusters on the backshell will now be used to steer the spacecraft. Next comes atmospheric entry. The heat shield will protect (dramatic ethereal music continues) Once we get about 11 then the parachute can deploy. It uses a technology called Range Trigger which finds out how close and then deploys the parachute Next step is Heat Shield Separation. For the first time, the Perseverance rover can now see the Martian Now we use Terrain Relative Navigation. The rover will be taking and comparing these to maps of Mars. This will be used to towards the intended landing site. Next comes Backshell Separation. All that's left is the The rockets on the descent as we get closer to the surface. Then the rover separates, but They call this the Sky Crane Maneuver. The final part everyone The cables are cut, and the descent stage flies off into the distance for a crash landing far Now it's time to check deploy the mast, and then the The main purpose of the Perseverance rover is to look for signs of life. It landed in Jezero Crater, used to be filled with water. Where there is water, or at least signs that Perseverance rover has an array of advanced scientific instruments to study the surface of Mars. If you remember from earlier, It's about the size of a car. The main body of the Warm Electronics Box. Then you've got six that are made of aluminum. The front and back wheels can turn, allowing the rover to The Suspension System allows the rover to travel over rough terrain. You never know what kind of obstacles you're gonna come across on Mars. But to be more realistic, the rover would be going about this fast. It has a top speed of The slow speed is mainly for the safety and stability of the rover. This is the Remote Sensing Mast. This is the place where you'll and sensors of the rover. It's just a little taller The idea is to give us a similar view of what a person would see This big circle up on top It's basically a laser that from as much as seven meters away. This is the Mastcam-Z. These are the main cameras on the rover that can even take high definition video. Navigation cameras are safely drive on the surface of Mars. Right below is the Mars or MEDA. This is studying the weather The rover has two and then another on the side of the rover. Then we have the HazCams, which There's some in the front Like the name says, these and obstacles while The power source for the rover is called the Radioisotope or RTG for short. It's a nuclear power source. The decay of radioactive which can then be turned into electricity. Some of the previous to generate power from the sunlight, but this doesn't work at night, and if too much dust gets on Both Curiosity and which means a lot more This is RIMFAX, or Radar Imager for Mars' Subsurface Experiment. This uses radar waves to study the ground up to nine meters below Then there's MOXIE, Mars Oxygen In-Situ Resource This takes the carbon dioxide on Mars and turns it into oxygen. This kind of technology once we start sending humans to Mars. And of course, the robot arm This has a few tools at the end with some really big NASA PIXL. This helps to determine what chemicals make up the rocks on a very small scale. WATSON, another powerful camera to see the rocks with fine detail. And then SHERLOC. This At the end of the arm is the Coring Drill. This is capable of drilling that will be stored onboard the rover. (drill whirring) Then it will take these samples and place them inside of the rover. Future mission is planned from the surface of Mars so we can study them further. So how does Perseverance The best way is to use which consists of several These were launched long before These satellites are also used for science and to communicate with other For example, one of these satellites is called the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter. So Perseverance can send which will then send it On the surface of Earth, NASA to communicate with spacecraft This is part of the Deep Space Network. There are three main locations Goldstone, California, Madrid, Spain, and Canberra, Australia. No matter which way the Earth is facing, it will always be able to or other distant places Perseverance has three antennas on board. The UHF Antenna, or This communicates directly primarily used to send large The High-Gain Antenna transmits And then the Low-Gain Antenna, mostly used just to Of course, we can't This is the helicopter along with the rover. Now where would you put a Look closely. You'll see a little, tiny This is where it was stored. About two months after landing, the helicopter was finally The process took about a week to complete. First, the cover is removed, Then it's unlatched, the legs come out and Perseverance can drive away, and Ingenuity can start to absorb the The helicopter has two rotors that rotate in opposite directions. On Earth, most helicopter blades spin at only a few hundred RPMs, For a helicopter to work on Mars, we have to spin the blades a lot faster. This is because the air The first test flight of Ingenuity happened about two months the first helicopter to fly and it turned out to be a huge success. As of this video, there's and Ingenuity is still operational. Perseverance paves the where we will hopefully be back to Earth. And of course, the next major milestone, sending humans to Mars. (dramatic ethereal music fades) Keeping up with the most can be time consuming. How do you stay informed without just aimlessly It can be a huge time waster. This is where Morning Brew comes in. It's a free newsletter that's delivered right to your inbox seven days a week. You can stay up to date on in only five minutes. Lately, I've been able to keep up with what's happening to I've also learned a few finally launching its You can even keep up with Elon Musk and the details about purchasing Twitter. And you'll also be pleased to know that Morning Brew covers events about Mars rovers and Morning Brew is witty, This is a great way to The newsletter is completely free, and it takes just a Just go to MorningBrewDaily.com/JaredOwen or use the link in the description below. (dramatic ethereal music)