(INTRODUCTION) TERRY GROSS (HOST): My guest Mary Trump has President Donald Trump, in her new memoir &quot;Too Freddy Trump, was Donald's oldest brother. You can her uncle's presidency. The book is subtitled &quot;How She secretly served as a source for a 2018 family finances, including schemes to avoid contradicted the story that Donald Trump has and a self-made billionaire and showed how Fred Trump, and how he relied on his father Fred Trump presided over a real estate empire. Mary Trump is a clinical psychologist by as an adjunct professor. Mary Trump, called your book a lie. Have you MARY TRUMP: No. And I don't expect I will. GROSS: When was the last time you did speak? TRUMP: At my aunt's birthday party GROSS: Your father worked for his father, your Management, but he never rose in the organization. low-level positions like overseeing maintenance to do was be a pilot. And when he became a pilot, like, a really embarrassing, humiliating a son who was a bus driver in the sky. Did TRUMP: Yes. I think he never You know, it started out - he had every intention dad, working his way up through the company, perpetuating the empire. That was his plan. It was thrust upon him. He actively wanted to working for my grandfather, however, that he give him any real responsibility or respect. So my dad, who had earned his private and college, decided that he needed to make a change. at TWA, which was the second-largest carrier at And he was one of the few people to make it was an even bigger deal to go from, you know, He was also given the very coveted Logan Airport incessant torment and humiliation from his do it anymore because unfortunately, one of that his father's opinion meant more to him GROSS: Well, also, I mean, he was forced to leave drinking. They basically told him, either resign, license to fly, and you'll never be able to fly having to give up being a pilot. But, of course, anymore as a pilot because of his drinking. you write about seeing him, drunk, point time. And she was terrified. What TRUMP: It's actually my first memory. I was So I don't remember the experience of the emotions it very clearly. And I know that that was, you And it's also honestly - I mean, not that I ever I never saw him not be an alcoholic - or, sorry - And he didn't - his drinking didn't really start his family and was completely undermined fair to say that his drinking ended his career as Obviously, the genetic component of alcoholism and allowed to experience his incredible had parents who were proud of him, I think GROSS: Were you afraid of your father because your first TRUMP: No, again, because I didn't really and it was - I'm sure - very traumatic. kind of forgot about. So no, I wasn't really moody. And, you know, there got - there drunk than he was sober because when he was sober, But I - no, I never felt afraid of him after shocking that other adults thought it was OK for, you know, days at a time GROSS: Yeah. It's a confusing you blame your grandfather's kind of shunning alcoholism. But it sounds like your father maybe And that might've alienated your grandfather So it's a kind of confusing cycle for TRUMP: Yeah. And I think that the truth is that my He took things to heart. He took things - he very hard. And I - because he was the oldest my grandfather was very invested in my dad's be - you know, a killer who could take over and, and a tough guy - right? - you know, who had doing whatever to promote the business. When he treated him very harshly and, you know, that my father would be exactly the opposite Yeah. It was just - he just went And it - you know, it couldn't have ended worse person. And my grandfather didn't respect GROSS: You feel like your father couldn't role of that person, acted the role of the TRUMP: I think it's more that, initially, And the myth about the other stuff happened GROSS: Well, let's take a short break my guest is Mary Trump, Donald Trump's &quot;Too Much And Never Enough.&quot; We'll talk (SOUNDBITE OF AHMAD JAMAL'S &quot;THE LINE&quot;) GROSS: This is FRESH AIR. Let's get back memoir is called &quot;Too Much And Never Enough.&quot; In your memoir, you confess that you York Times' investigation into Donald family finances. What documents did you TRUMP: After my brother and I were disinherited, negotiation - decided to sue my grandfather's we were entitled to documents that were So it's two years before and three years after my grandfather's will. We were entitled to all of his personal tax returns and all of the financial which would have been in excess of four GROSS: So you mentioned that you and your little bit of backstory, you considered your he became an alcoholic. He died in his early 40s. your grandfather changed the will and wrote you thought was very unfair, felt it was as if like So picking up where we left off - Susanne knocked on your door and asked to talk to you her away. But she gave you her card. And you did you decide - after turning away the reporter and hand over some of the, you know - some TRUMP: She, over time - despite my intransigence have something that could help concretely, as she and my family. Before then, I had completely It had been almost 20 years in the past. I didn't for me. And there was no reason to revisit it. if they were still in the possession of the could be analyzed properly, there could be a for the first time, I felt like So within a few weeks of deciding to call her, I had gone to my attorney - my former attorney's 40,000 pages or so of all of the documents the investigative team did this extraordinary into all sorts of other sources and contacts. And brilliant pieces of investigative journalism GROSS: Do you know what the reaction in the family has been now that everybody knows that you TRUMP: The only response I've seen is referring to me as the seldom-seen niece whom both that's all I know. So I'm assuming lawsuit is also probably an GROSS: Right. Was it your impression that TRUMP: My grandfather couldn't stand either I don't think he felt warmly towards anybody. But you know, I don't take that personally because cared about after his own fashion was Donald. So I don't believe for a second at least up until the lawsuit. And then I GROSS: During the investigation, the to all of your grandfather's properties, around 90 of them. You had no idea that real estate empire. Tell us a little bit about your reaction was and what you learned about TRUMP: Yeah. It was extraordinary. And actually, we spent about nine hours driving actually get to see all of the properties. There family had money. Although, you know, I grew GROSS: Jamaica, Queens, just TRUMP: Right. I'm sorry. GROSS: Yeah (laughter). TRUMP: Jamaica, Queens, which is a town next to It's an entirely different kind of town. much more racially diverse back in the holdings made me realize in a way I never had And it changed my perspective about the pettiness GROSS: So what are some of the things investigation into Trump family finances that and maybe changed your impression of TRUMP: First of all, related to what I said grandfather owned, they put it in numerical terms You know, when my grandfather died, we were told it turns out it was closer to a billion. So time in my life, I understood just how much my grandfather was - grandfather's GROSS: And did you feel TRUMP: Yeah. They had used egregiously misrepresented valuations of settlement agreement that, as it turns out, was GROSS: If I'm not mistaken, you owned shares in some properties you TRUMP: That's true. Yeah. And that - you know, because Maryanne, Robert and Donald you know, which should've been enough considering my dad - their brother - after my father died, my trustees. So they not only that I didn't get taken advantage of, make informed decisions going forward. And, of GROSS: As I recall, some of the things less than legal. And did that change your TRUMP: Yeah. I, along with everybody else, had bought into the myth of Donald being developer. I had no idea that none of that was So that was - I mean, I had started to learn '80s and the '90s when he was starting to get into that since the beginning. So that was interesting. were willing to go to hide funds, evade, commit you know, I never really thought of them as For example, the entity called All County was a discover through my - I think predominantly essentially, a shell corporation that - the sole out of my grandfather's legitimately successful all of this cash and then, simultaneously, lower GROSS: If you're just joining Donald Trump's only niece. Her new memoir We'll be right back after a short break. (SPONSORSHIP MESSAGE) GROSS: My guest is Mary Trump. She's written a new memoir about life in the Trump family. She says a complete picture of her uncle Donald Trump's She has a Ph.D. from the Derner Institute of Advanced Psychological Studies and has You've said that there were things you have been better off not knowing. What things? TRUMP: I believe that was mostly in reference things. I honestly knew very little about his always presented as an alcoholic loser, which, assessment of him. So I was really happy to learn was happy to learn about his career as a pilot. so fondly. He was so loved by his friends, if not On the other hand, it was devastating to revisit at my grandfather's hands and how you know, helped him or stood up that they had allowed him to die alone in is something I will never forget or ever suffered alone before that for years, yeah, GROSS: Regarding your father, he was kind of broke and - well, at least because of the alcoholism and other health which are also Donald Trump's parents. And like, the family called for an ambulance; And you also write that, like, you know, Fred hospital. I think there was a wing named after and said that, you know, their son was being taken And you were very upset learning that. TRUMP: Of course. It's unforgivable, inexcusable my parent - my grandparents donated millions lot of money to Booth Memorial Hospital, had spent a lot of time at both of those because of her osteoporosis. So yeah, I have to pass by it every time I take the And yet, yeah, they called an ambulance, and five minutes from where - the building where I And nobody in my family had ever So there were no connections. And, you know, I It's very possible they knew it was too late house for weeks without their doing anything years old. And I didn't understand - it's way too young to die. But I didn't understand So the fact that they just didn't feel that now - at this time in particular, it's resonating horrors of the disease we're trying to escape is that people have to die alone and the fact that Donald is doing nothing but he's doing - it seems like he's doing more people are going to die alone without their GROSS: Your great-grandfather, President Trump's flu pandemic. How much of that death of the flu TRUMP: I actually didn't know about my of it until I read about it a couple of years ago. talk about my great grandfather in any way when I what Donald may have heard, but GROSS: Donald Trump was sent to military And this was against his protests. have that information from? Who TRUMP: My grandmother told me stories. And, you know, I think it was a combination of things. my grandfather was a trustee for. He was on as he grew up, became increasingly belligerent and problems. I think my grandfather probably found one of his children was getting into all sorts At home - where my grandmother certainly had to deal with Donald more than my grandfather he was incredibly disrespectful to her. He didn't in one way or another, I think he tormented all the older kids were out of the house, and Robert And the situation with my grandfather - my school kind of came to a head at the same entirely given up on my father and who had not decided it would make his life easier, and She told me she was relieved when Donald went GROSS: Let's take a short break here, and then my guest is Mary Trump, Donald Trump's &quot;Too Much And Never Enough.&quot; We'll talk (SPONSORSHIP MESSAGE) GROSS: This is FRESH AIR. Let's get back to about the Trump family is called &quot;Too Much And Your father had such a hard time working and your father also - I think also had a hard the organization while your father couldn't rise I mean, I guess years after your father's death, know, a businessman and in real estate, he asked This was his sequel to &quot;The Art Of The Deal.&quot; Why did you want to work with him after having family business and a very dysfunctional TRUMP: I, as a kid, basically bought you know? I hate saying this 'cause you know, I - because I didn't really know much tale they spun, that he was just this failed guy, And I thought it was his fault. So after he died of continued as if nothing out of the ordinary You know, when my family did talk about my he was handsome and kind. And kind was always said you know, that that would explain why But, you know, I wasn't aware what had happened between my dad and my GROSS: How did you find that out? TRUMP: Well, part of it was just distance and, accomplished and also just, like, getting understanding Donald more and realizing that a really true, like the stories about Donald's And then, more recently, it was in conversation correcting the record to me about my dad. I wish know, it was at least helpful to hear it from her GROSS: You had no experience writing books. him write &quot;The Art Of The Comeback?&quot; Were TRUMP: Yeah, that was his plan. Unfortunately he thought I was a brilliant writer. He hired me that I had written in support of a And I think I wrote it maybe my And they were sending it to him as much Mary loves Tufts and look how great our And I realized later that he hired me partially you know, he didn't really have to pay take my requests for his time seriously, and hiring me and his publisher had no idea because he thought I was really good at making GROSS: So once the editor found out Trump's collaborator on his book, they no experience. Were you offended by that's a good idea? I really shouldn't be TRUMP: You know, it's interesting. I didn't think you know, I had a master's degree in English. life. I'd been writing academic papers, you degree. And it wasn't - you know, it was a Eugene O'Neill play or something. So the only you can't sit down at the piano for the first well, you know, I have been writing in And I hardly would compare Donald's book to It wasn't going anywhere because Donald wasn't it's very possible that I wouldn't - I I didn't have the relevant writing experience. the long run. But it was - for me, it was much every day. I spoke to him every day. He wouldn't GROSS: He did give you some which were not exactly germane. TRUMP: Yeah. You know, the awful thing is I I'm going to have something to go on. And it just from a recording he had made, you know, speaking his ideas about women, you know, his evaluation of or their bearing. And most of it was just - it hard to read. And I never looked at it again GROSS: That reminds me of once when you visited suit. He said, hey, you're really stacked. That's to your niece, that is - I don't know. What was TRUMP: Yeah. Well, now I would say, it's really partially because it was the first time - it was be fair, it is probably - it is the first time me in a bathing suit - you know, anybody who I of family, you know? We didn't go on vacations So he'd never seen me in a bathing suit before. pretty, you know, unflappable, I think. But it was GROSS: Did it affect your relationship? TRUMP: Oh, no. TRUMP: No, because, you know - and this he does. He says these outrageous things inappropriate. And people laugh it off feels total impunity to continue GROSS: Let's take a short break here. And then my guest is Mary Trump, Donald Trump's &quot;Too Much And Never Enough.&quot; We'll talk (SPONSORSHIP MESSAGE) GROSS: Let's get back memoir is called &quot;Too Much And Never Enough.&quot; Donald Trump is so fixated on numbers when he sometimes change the numbers or not know what of proving that he's best. And he's done that with test scores, about his cognitive test, about the size of crowds at his rallies, his TV ratings I do is the best. Was he that way before? Like, TRUMP: Oh, yeah. That's - one thing we can himself for decades. I can't really think of the person he was when he was a teenager. Now, But there's a reason my dad nicknamed GROSS: What did he mean by that? TRUMP: He meant that, you know, was always the best and claimed to be the et cetera. So yeah, it started very early on. And make sure that my grandfather never for one GROSS: So one of the things I think you kept here - is that you're a lesbian. There's two - And you refer to how you realized you couldn't homophobic on the fact that Elton John was funeral or memorial. So is that something TRUMP: Yeah, you know, it didn't really feel I was really close with my grandmother and saw kind of gone their separate ways, and we saw each big a deal that they didn't know. Like, it didn't I just figured, you know what? She's older. She's Which (laughter) probably says a and it also says a lot about, you know, give these people a break But yeah, at the time, it just - it I was just living my life separately from GROSS: What are some of the anti-gay your uncle and his administration that have TRUMP: You know, they all affect me, whether it started with no longer allowing trans And I have to be honest - I kind of lose track think it's him; I think it's people he's elevated you know, either whispering in his ear that policy and just having him go along with it So - but, you know, beyond policy, it's also - the racial division in this acting as if certain things don't matter, of hate crimes against Black trans women in totally innocent Black men, women and children this country. And it's just - it's or his siding with the transgressors - so, the policies because one's worse than the You know, I am in a position of great privilege, a lot of what's going on or what's been done by that as - just as a human being, you know, it's just awful to witness how in one way or another by what's GROSS: Mary Trump, thank you so much TRUMP: Terry, thank you so much for having and I really appreciate all your time. GROSS: Mary Trump's new memoir (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) GROSS: FRESH AIR's executive producer is engineer is Audrey Bentham. Our interviews and Phyllis Myers, Roberta Shorrock, Sam Therese Madden, Thea Chaloner and Joel media is Molly Seavy-Nesper. Seth Kelley (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC)