I bet. You know what I wish-- One thing I regret, I don't speak another language. I wish we could speak another language. I took Spanish in high school. And after one year of Spanish, I only knew one complete sentence. And it's a stupid sentence to know if you only know one sentence in another language. I know how to say Donde esta la biblioteca? (audience laughing) Where's the library? That's what that means. Where is the library? My question, why do I need to know where is the library if all the books are written in Spanish. (audience laughing) I cannot read-o them. (audience laughing) That's wrong. Yo cannot read-o them. (audience laughing) There's another reason it's stupid to only know that one sentence. Say I go to Spain. I'm on vacation, I'm probably not even going to the library. How about donde esta la cervezas? (audience laughing) Este? Norte? Here's a real reason. Say I go to Spain, and then I somehow end up in a library. (audience laughing) Now I got nothing. (audience laughing) What am I going to look like standing in a library in Spain, saying that hey, &quot;donde esta la biblioteca? (audience laughing) &quot;Aqui. (audience laughing) &quot;Se llamo stupido.&quot; (audience laughing) Then I made a big mistake. I quit the Spanish and took French. French is twice as hard as Spanish. It's mathematically twice as hard as Spanish because I took two years of French, and I don't even know one sentence. (audience laughing) I failed algebra in the ninth grade. I had to go to summer school for algebra. That's how bad I am. And I went to summer school for algebra, which still I'm mad about at my age because the last time I needed algebra, it was summer school. (audience laughing) I mean nobody does algebra for a living. You know what I mean? Anybody got to solve for x to get paid on Friday? No, unless you're on unemployment because then they go, &quot;here, &quot;sign next to the x.&quot; Oh, yeah, I never thought this algebra would come in handy. (audience laughing) Can I come in tomorrow and sign for y and z? (audience laughing) Because they always gave you the y and z. X is unknown. X is unknown. Y and z have value. X is unknown. I would work on these tests, I'd borrow an hour, an hour and a half. I'd hand it back and go look, babe, x is still unknown. That's what unknown means. Nobody knows. I looked around, nobody in my area knew. (audience laughing) Believe me, if they'd had it, I'd had it. I can tell you that. (audience laughing) Remember they tried to make algebra look like it made sense with the two trains heading towards each other. Two trains are on the same track heading towards the left. They're traveling in opposite directions. They left the stations a different time and are traveling at different speeds, and you have to figure out what time those two trains are going to hit. Why don't you just teach us how to stop those two trains from hitting? (audience laughing) Could 911 be the answer here, you think? &quot;Yeah, hello, police. &quot;Yeah, it's going to be &quot;a terrible, terrible accident. &quot;When? &quot;That is unknown. (audience laughing) &quot;Only pertinent information I have is &quot;y and z, I can give you that. &quot;If you can get back to me with x, &quot;I'd appreciate it.&quot; (audience laughing) I meet a lot of people. I'm bad with names. I'm bad with remembering people's names. A lot of people say that they are too, but I'm really bad with it. I'm so bad, I forget people's name as I'm shaking their hands. Like in my head, I'm shaking somebody's hand, I go, what was I doing when they told me their name? Was I trying to save the world, perhaps, and maybe I wasn't paying attention? Because that would explain. You ever forget somebody's name, and it's your name? Hey, what's your name again? Don. That's my name. I'm not going to forget that. He goes, &quot;yeah, that's what you said &quot;the first time we met.&quot; (audience laughing) I have people I've known for 30 years and I don't know their names. I mean not my best friends, obviously. But I see them when I travel. And I've just been making up names. I just nickname them-- Hey, buddy. Hey, pal what's happening? Big guy, where you been? So I can't bring my wife anywhere. My wife's a lovely woman, great company, but if I bring her to a party, I got to introduce her to people, and it just gets embarrassing. It's like, oh, that's a buddy. (audience laughing) The big guy there, that's big guy. (audience laughing) It's pally. This is my wife, honeybunch. (audience laughing)