- All right this afternoon, we're gonna learn a little Pretty interesting talk, please welcome our first time at DEF CON and first time speaker Sam Bent. (audience applauding) - Thank you, it's great to be here. I never thought I'd be up on this stage. So my talk is about Darknet OpSec from the point of view of myself. Some of the precautions, some of the things that to try to keep myself safe and other adversaries So these are my aliases. I have a couple of them. My day job involves me pretty dry stuff, but I enjoy doing it. While my night job, I'm a prison advocate, so I do a lot of outreach and guide people through the myriad that is the federal prison system. Whether it's them going into it or their family members going into it. I have about 54 slides, so I'm gonna have to move So I've worked not only but also worked on done PR work for them as for customers, things like that. My objective with this talk is to give a different perspective at conferences or on the mainstream media, from someone who's actually been there, not just studied it from a So there are a lot of similarities between the darknet subculture Both of them typically and a lot of times that Both very much value intellectual dominance, especially in the hacking but also there's a bit of I would argue that the hacking scene has a much greater learning especially because in you don't just start up tour. There's a lot that goes into it, depending on what you're doing. So the paths between being can differentiate too. As a hacker, you start off really with no adversaries whatsoever. You don't have anyone You know, when you hop on you can learn almost everything. As far as the process goes for a pen test inside of things like A lot of what we do is You can watch a DEF CON what it is that hackers do or the culture, or just be here in this room, come to DEF CON. That doesn't exist in the darknet. You can't, you know, just hop on and watch a YouTube video and learn about darknet subculture. It's something that you and you have to explore and learn and meet people and hopefully The sources for information are My favorite always was darknet news sites, dark.fail is one that's been and is pretty good. Dread is a forum that's on the darknet from what I've seen. So there's a book that Kevin Mitnick wrote called &quot;Ghost in the Wires&quot; and I took his approach when looking at operational security from that, specifically the part where he called up law enforcement and social engineered them to allow him to use the I feel that a lot of the information that you could want or would be relevant is located in manuals. And if we know how law we're trying to be criminals, then we know what It's like having a cheat sheet. So with that, I ended up going and looking and finding United States Postal Inspector's manual to see what he classified I needed to know that if narcotics through the United States mail. So this information's out there, this is not it, but this is an example of some of the things when evaluating things like this. It'd be an eclectic process where you take what's valuable and leave what's not. Some of the things that when you're trying to move drugs through the United States mail system would be using too much tape, handwriting the labels, if you don't use the official USPS boxes, fake names on recipients all of these things add up as red flags that ultimately leads to the possibly applying for a So in order to avoid these, It's pretty straightforward. It's like reverse to some degree. For me, I had a moral dilemma which is kind of ironic. I didn't want to send, say cocaine from some You know, there's a lot of And to me sending out four ounces of blow to some guy who's a construction worker and just trying to make ends meet and have DHS break through his door really wasn't the best way to go about it. And I was sure that a database of people that to be people okay to screw over. (audience laughs) So I searched for it and what that database would be, how it would look and how I And the only solution that I (audience laughing and applauding) So remember I said, you need It needs to be the correct name. It needs to be the correct address, all of these had that. So they qualified and they made them real. And if it got sent back to them or if they got raided, I didn't really have any qualms in that. And it was interesting because the Department special agent that was in charge when they ended up raiding me, felt the exact same he laughed about it too, he (audience laughs) So when I ship, the thing that I came to my conclusion was you can pick obviously you have a ton of different services that you can use to ship anything nowadays. My favorite by far is the And there's a few reasons for that, private services like DHL or UPS, they can open up your There's no rules in that. They're a private corporation, but a warrant is required to open something. They also have more and they can get to your in three days, which is great, especially if you're on the darknet, you know. (audience laughs) So it is run by the federal government, which is kind of, you know, that the people that are hunting you, you know, a branch of their system is going to be enabling you to traffic drugs on a national It's kind of, I guess you say where you're having the feds send you drugs for you. So the other thing to take into account is the amount of packages that exist. How hard is it to find my one package out of that 21.5 billion? You'd probably have a better chance at winning the powerball, especially because I'm well aware of what you're looking for when it comes to a suspicious package and none of my packages are And we compare 'em to some and you can see the in terms of differences. Drug sniffing dogs compared think, drug sniffing dogs, they don't work eight hour shifts. They're sporadic. You can't work them like you (audience laughs) So that's one thing, but then you take into account permeation, which is where a smell All those things come into play. When I would ship, I would There's not enough time for it to come through vacuum sealed bags and a visual barrier So on top of that, like when you get, if your drugs do get intercepted, what happens is you get a notice and we call it a love letter and it comes from USPS typically, or customs if it's an overseas order. And they just say that we've they don't say it like that. They say, we have your package, please come to the post office Once you show up with that letter, you're acknowledging Because aside from that, They can't, you didn't So they can't hop on and see, you know, your credit card transaction, where you bought these drugs. You bought it in Bitcoin or your Monero or any one of the available So they rely on things like that. So, you know, your a love letter is to burn it or throw it away, it's relevant. So the other thing that on occasion is controlled deliveries and controlled deliveries, obviously than a love letter. But again, you have You have no obligation to And if they had, you know, if they had permission they wouldn't be knocking, right? They'd be kicking in the and they'd be taking you out. So it's all voluntary. You answering that door with delivery services. You can just not answer that door. I mean, a lot of the times darknet vendors are not gonna require signature because it would be like, to give your real name when you're using a handle as a hacker. It's just not something you're gonna do. If I ask you on an IRC And we just met. How willing are you gonna be Probably not likely. So from that, there are So sometimes they'll and we'll just let the or 48 hours or three in that device if it's small die, or if they're using something local, like a radio frequency, we travel open the box up 10 miles away, any transmitter they have in there would be well at a distance. So if you do it well, this is what they should know about you. It should be nothing. It should be, oh yeah, So in making an image for one of the best ways I found And, you know, just like on a if you're disingenuine people It's like flattery, you flattery has the opposite effect So being disingenuous that can be picked up by some people. And a lot of people find it repulsive, just like you do in real life. When someone compliments on your shoes. So my move was to contribute 5,000 posts and I did that on Hansa in a month. And by doing that, basically now associates my name with good things, with helping out with OpSec, with, you know, enjoying And that's the kind of the to think about the darknet where, you know, there are It's not up for debate, not everyone on there is a psychopath. You know, a lot of times it's just people. So with that, I was able to establish rapid People knew me and when someone came in there just like any other community, if you come into any you know, threatening someone, or like, you know, if someone came in here and started saying a well-known speaker didn't know what he was talking about, the community would probably They wouldn't like that very much. You have the same thing in the darknet, but instead of having that trust, you have that verification through things like PGP signatures and sign messages and all, you know, stuff like that. When we look at the and the future of reconnaissance when it comes to law enforcement, there are a few different countermeasures a darknet vendor can if he knows enough about it. My thing was to hop on PACER, like you might see the announce a darknet bust, give you details, PACER will. PACER is the place where You can find the United and how they caught that person, what that person did, Again, if we can look and we can map out how they screwed up, we can make it so that we never screw up. We never make those same mistakes And we're playing in this game you're playing for keeps, you know, messing up here doesn't mean that this particular assignment, you have to go find another It means that you're So it's not something you wanna screw up. So tend to tread a lot more carefully, even when it comes to things or, you know, making it so that the chain that law enforcement uses to trace you or trace your transactions So from what I've seen on the darknet, the majority of the time get taken down is not from law enforcement being highly talented. It's from just a administrator, making a stupid OpSec or getting complacent, right? Because we have that kind of sliding scale where we have complacency on one side and security on the other. And time seems to be a to the other side where So Reddit ended up banning darknet markets and our response was to create Dread. Hugbunter is famously known He created it and he ended up making it and making it public as a replacement for darknet markets, which is a massive subreddit came out of nowhere. And what it did was it on the clearnet or people it made 'em a lot harder to on how to navigate the darknet. And that removal of by law enforcement to try to stop people from using the darknet. And that was our answer was Dread, which I was an administrator on. So when you get started, you wanna look at a few different things. Your main goal obviously avoid arrest. You wanna create a secure persona. Sometimes it's good to and have them all age. Your ultimate goal is to not get arrested. And if you do screw something up, that's what's going to happen. You are successful as long as And once you are as far my suggestion is to map to any type of incident that may occur. Just like a major company you know, they set up to be able to handle It's the responsibility of that person who's going to be, you know, to make sure that they do the same. So some of the threats that like DNA. If that darknet vendor about physical security or anything like that, he might assume that, you go through the effort of or analyzing a package heavily. And the fact of the matter is then you're always better Noisy neighbors, these kind of, you know, if you have issues with your neighbors, they don't like you that's an adversary. You know, they can call up, even though wellness check, anyone can write an email to the FBI. You know, I see 'em come It's abnormal, it's a red flag. Bluetooth, wifi attacks, all those things that we know very well, you know, people in this Trash is another one. It's always better to shred It's a lot of these same security measures that we take in this field, safeguarding corporations are the things that you will see a responsible The only difference is and millions of dollars to do it, they're stuck trying to figure it out and do it all themselves. Which is why, one of that low hanging fruit those people who don't or don't know fully about OpSec, and maybe they're just drug traffickers. They don't have a background in that. Another thing is linguistical analytics is something I always If I'm writing on the darknet on a forum, I'm from New England. So we tend to say the word like wicked to describe something as very, you know, so if I say this it means it's a very good talk. And with that said, if I use that terminology in a forum and law enforcement picks that up, now they know, okay, this or this guy's from Massachusetts. You know, tey can get detailed information on where I am based on That's a problem and something that, again, a lot of people, when they go into it and there's no manual for this. You know, unlike the hacking culture, we've been around a long time, you know, it's a big culture and darknet culture isn't so much, it's a lot more secretive. What's interesting is everything all of this is freely available. You know, so if you're from the Department of Homeland Security and you're here hoping to learn it's just not gonna happen. It's all publicly available to anyone who seeks this information. My internet service when it didn't exist. Again, I drew a lot of my I liked a lot of the stuff that he did. I thought a lot of his And along with those was which was a little bit more with cell towers was grabbing a Yagi and connecting to a neighbor's internet, who I had no visual barriers to, meaning I could see his house, but it was far enough away So if I saw, you know, a bunch I could assume it was safe and get rid of everything, clean house because my neighbor was getting raided. So one thing I would always check, I would do perimeter I was a homebody, I didn't like to leave. I'm definitely not big personally, the guy of a So this talk is extremely However, it was something that And I'm glad that DEF CON to share with you guys. But one of the things on top of is security checks. Just like in a corporation, you constantly have to make on point, cuz again, complacency So that was one of the I had weekly, daily and monthly checklists of things that I would At the end of the day, we all feel safe, when we're at home, we all feel safe, we all feel secure. And then one day we lose our keys and then all of a sudden We can look at our house and we can say, oh, I can card the door, oh, I left that window open. Now all of a sudden you can find three, four different and you stop feeling so safe And I think that's something it's very easy to get comfortable, just like it is for our average people. Checking out your that they're fixed, evaluating your OpSec on a regular basis to me is mandatory, especially because the They're incarceration Staying away from emotional decisions, things like drinking and will get you a 10 to 25 year sentence. So it's suicide, career of a different level I like to always advise to never, never answer questions I only answer questions after this talk, but, you know, like in general, (laughs) when it comes to law enforcement or obviously someone you don't know calling up, you know, a really great, you know, to the SE village and see and those people just obviously we all know So I'm always leery of that. And in turn, I always like to answer that question with the question. So once you actually pull that trigger and you start being a darknet vendor and you start having to you have to write terms and conditions. You know, when are you How long is it gonna go? How long are you gonna if someone buys something from you today and tomorrow they say, hey, Are you gonna give it to 'em? Should you give it to 'em? You know, if you give it to 'em, then they'll know where Maybe you want a little bit more time before you're willing to give that away. So all those little kind of things are things that need to when you're considering or when you're considering And again, I have it as number six here, don't drink and type, it's essential. So changing your PGP key, but it lets you switch up. You switch up your identity, which means your reputation dies and that's unfortunate, but you can always build and it'll take a massive So your point of you doing That's how I saw it is to make money, is to get in, is to get out. And that was my goal, so having that mapped your egress and your regress, as far as things like or things like that were And with things that I kept in mind during the whole time. Once you start building a it's in spider out. So what I mean by that is like you as professionals right now, if you have, you work Or you write a book, you're building a reputation, you can use that reputation and you can do the same Except instead of me might be a verifiable, PGP signed message to a new employer and a new darknet opens up And I say, hey, listen, I have these previous accounts, I can validate them. You can check them and I can prove that I've done this kind of work before. And it allows you, again, to spider out and end up getting which pay sometimes a lot starting out as a vendor. And that reputation is and you can sell and you can trade on. And, you know, your PGP key, your identity is much more restrictive. And it's restricted to as opposed to all the users. So me personally, I hate Bitcoin tumblers. I never use them. I just didn't like them, I don't like sending my Bitcoin to someone and I don't know who they are. It always kind of rubbed me the wrong way. So what I used to do from Bitcoin to Monero And I was happy with that because I knew that the link between of Bitcoin that I had It's kind of like robbing a bank and buying a bunch of weed And now the money that you Whether or not you made money Alternatively, also buying drugs. So if I sold $20,000 worth I could turn around and and I could sell them locally at a much steeper markup So then you get to retirement you know, if you're lucky And surprisingly, a lot of people, I've known a lot of darknet vendors who have gotten to this point. They say like, drug dealers Well, darknet vendors do when it's completely possible. I'm not encouraging anyone to do it. If you're at this con, you're obviously intelligent. I suggest that you don't do it cuz it has horrible ROI. And it's a lot of stress looking with the gray hair I have, (audience laugh) you know, it's not an easy job, so I don't recommend it to anyone. And that's one thing I So, and I talk about here that, you know, we do switch up PGP keys, again, that kills all your business, but that's a necessary. So when my Department of where they announced me that got raided, they said that it was cuz of Operation Dark Hold. And I'm from Vermont, you can see the little well, maybe you can't. Yeah, you probably can't on the screen. I'm sorry about that. But that's what they planned, basically Operation Dark Gold was they caught someone and they had this guy continue to do it. And people would cash for 10% and he would send At this time, KYC the know your wasn't really prevalent and it only applied to banking So personal Bitcoin and, you know, quoting trying to say that because someone bought this was how you caught them. To me, I thought it was asinine because it made absolutely To me, it was just a way who were on the darknet. And that's exactly what they did, but that was how they said The issue that I had with that was that at the end of the day, you have a hearing called the Frank's hearing in law. And Frank's hearing is when you can prove that law enforcement to catch you doing something to search your house. They themselves broke the law in trying to ascertain that information. That was in my case, the opened a package that he Again, one of my favorite reasons why I used the United was it requires a warrant And this went back to my but in breaking that, they also gave me a way federal indictment that because they broke the law. We didn't get to that point. And that was because before after our Frank's hearing was granted, my cousin had already written a statement which established conspiracy a mandatory minimum for can be anywhere from 10 years to 20 years. So it's not something that you really want to take a gamble with. So after I was caught, was convicted, but only after I pled out, I agreed to a maximum term of And I was actually given 60 I thought it was awesome cuz then I didn't know anything When I first got charged, I When I looked up those charges, I saw each one came with We do the math that's 200 years. So that's what I thought I was gonna get. I thought, well, I'm gonna get 200 years. I'm never gonna get out of prison, which it was, its just, in the federal system. So I studied law for 18 months because I inherently, I Just like a lot of you see a lot of power in learning how to code. Those things allow you to do things that, you know, the how to code, maybe not, they can't do or they can't automate or they can't get as much done as you can. So for me, the code I wanted and that's what I learned. And by doing that I was able They have a thing called where, you know, if you can prove that there's a danger from, you know, because of your health, then you can apply for compassionate release. And I did, I wrote a 200 page motion and I mailed it in to the federal court. So that was essentially to the federal courts and it but it was after a lot of a lot of 12 hour days reading federal law. So this year DEF CON's and for me that's especially true. Technically, my release in January of 2023. So I'm very happy to be talking to all of you as opposed (audience applauding) So I made a stupid mistake and I paid the consequence for what I did, but at the same time, that hacker mentality of never giving up, of always wanting to fight and just continually bashing It ended up paying off in than a lot of us see on a regular basis. You know, it wasn't that code It was that, you know, I wasn't stuck in a small cell with a bunch of sociopaths, you know, So that was a great thing. But it's one of the appreciate both communities because I started out and I ended up going into because it's such an easy transition. You know, one of the most paramount things is understanding security and being in this field And I think that's the that exists is because it's to that side, you know, So in conclusion, moving to being a darknet vendor, it was ridiculously easy, but again, you know, you and still get fucked You know, there's no such thing, we all know there's no such thing as an unpickable lock, right? There's no such thing as a foolproof plan. There's no security that's gonna make us all safe, guaranteed. It's the same thing. No matter what side of whether it's law enforcement Thank you for letting me speak here. (audience applauding) I think they're gonna If you guys have any questions. - [Host] You want mic? - Yeah, can I use this one or- - [Host] I can get a - All right, either way - [Host] Just have them raise your hand. - All right, questions anyone? - [Audience Member] Should I - What's that? - [Audience Member] Should I - Should you use more than one sock? I don't know. (laughs) Anyone else? - [Host] If you have a - [Audience Member] So how about the darknet markets did you operate on? - So I operated on 15 different markets. I remember the first Bitcoin was from a friend of mine and he was discussing how which used to exist back in the day where like you could hop on once a day and you get anywhere from And we'd done that a bunch of times. And then I got to a point and we were like, this is a waste of time. Just crap, you know, we (laughs) Big time regret there. Yes. (audience member faintly speaking) Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yep, yep. Sold them too. (laughs) Yep. - [Audience Member] Hey, like operational hygiene and stuff like that relating to like- - I'm sorry, I can't hear you. - [Audience Member] Okay, so like operational hygiene. So like in a week or these routines and things promote like a good SecOps hygiene, right? To make sure- - I can't make out- - [Audience Member] So for things like, you have like, is there any strategy you would use specifically for like trying to determine what your weakest points are for trying to establish a good, hey, check this week, right? 'Cause you can't check everything. You can't check every What kind of things would as part of like your OpSec wise? - Yep. So initially I spent six looking at previous cases where why they had rated them? And that was kind of my And then once you start to grasp that, you start finding your own little hacks and things that you can Yep, but to answer your question, it was mainly history, right? Cuz history predicts the future. So I would try to look at to evaluate what was going to happen or what I would need to do to evolve and not be the guy in - [Host] You have time for - [Audience Member] Hey, identities with some regularity, to not leave any tracks Did you ever get caught by people you interacted on a different market And if you did, did that cause any issues? - So I heard the first part of it. What was the second part? - [Audience Member] using multiple identities on a number of these different websites whether it be other staff, other users for being, you know, a vendor under different names? - Yeah, so you see it's interesting because once you're there for so long and like that kind of you can start to see people's mannerisms. It's a lot like with 4chan, right? When you start having, you started having people of terminology or wording, you could tell who's who, even if their name changes 50 times, you still know that person, cuz you spent a lot of you know their idea, their ideals or their that they're discussing. So those things, that using to me, it wouldn't be something that, I wasn't really there for the socialization aspect. You know, I was there and anything that helped further that goal I would be there. So when it did come to having and, you know, just make a to the community, that's what I would use it for, but I wouldn't use it anywhere else. I actually remember reading a case about a darknet vendor who had And then the idiot decided to use that as his Gmail PGP key. You know, and he didn't last long. (laughs) - [Audience Member] All thank you. I was wondering to get some markets had exit scams and kind of what was involved in that And this, also second on a lot of markets, is that really revenue depleting Did they pay off the DDos - So I've seen really, to real quick. I think the primary motive is when it comes to darknet markets is mainly federal agencies. It's like, well, how can you prove that? Well you can't, you know, but really it's one of the only ways that you can really see with any kind of regularity, but even then, you know, they just create new URLs and good luck they move on. But aside from that, I've known darknet market to conduct those campaigns against competing darknet markets. - [Audience Member] Hi, can you explain if and why certain aren't as targeted? - I explained why. - [Audience Member] As like health wellness drugs as opposed to cocaine or heroin, and then also it kind of ties but what goes into the internationally from like a And why is that legal when you don't have a prescription? Do you know anything about that? - So one of the more lucrative trades that I found when I was doing it was just that was to do retail. So you have a lot of people ordering internationally is when it goes through customs. If I'm sending you any kind of narcotic through the mail here in the US, it doesn't go through customs. So there's not a whole bunch of scrutiny. So it's fairly easy to do that. But when it goes through So I know that one of the after a while was looking would produce the best of So for example, LSD, there's a vendor and again, this isn't a secret, he's very well known called GammaGoblin who makes some of the And he lives in the Netherlands. That's where he's located out of, if you get a package from him, that's where it's gonna But the Netherlands is good quality LSD and good quality MDMA. So for me, I would source the countries that had the best quality and then I would find vendors in that because you can always refine in almost any darknet market. And then with that information, I would go and I would look on sites like Dread and I would cross-reference and find their reputation, find out what people said about them. So I would find the of a certain type of drug. Then I would find the guy in that country who has the highest reputation and I would order it through him. And like, you know, would be insane. Like I know with acid, from GammaGoblin I could grab and sell it for about 10 to 15 locally, on the darknet it would but again, it was still I'm on investment and with it's a piece of paper. There's no smell to it. So it's very easy to do. - [Host] Last question. - [Audience Member] Hi, to launder the Bitcoin to Monero and then how did you vet those platforms? - So when I did it, the one thing I'd like to remind you is when I was doing So, originally, it was Changelly. I really liked Changelly. There's another one, ShapeShift.io, any service that I would use, I would try to investigate And I had learned that to the DOJ and I just wasn't for that. I didn't really see too So I liked using them, but again, like anytime I would visit their site, it's gonna be through - [Host] Thank you very much. - Yep, thank you. (audience applauding)