There is the France that you know, with its unmissable monuments, its breathtaking landscapes and its magnificent villages. But behind these places sometimes hides a more secret, more surprising and worrying France. What if we discovered behind the scenes, the hidden side of our country? The Graal. What riddle lies behind this name we have all heard of? Is this the precious chalice that the Knights of the Round Table were looking for? Of a sacred cup which would have contained the blood of Christ? Or something even more unusual? There are truly several paths that lead to the Grail. Whatever its nature, the Grail has left its mark in several places in France. It is even claimed that it is hidden somewhere. During WWII. A commando from the German army was also tasked with a mind-boggling mission around the Montsegur castle. He will try to get his hands on, to find, to go in search of the Grail. He will look for it around the castle, in the smallest cavities. The Nazis are not the only ones who have long sought the Grail. A few kilometers away, in Rennes le Chateau. A rumor claims that a mysterious abbot may have found it. Everyone comes here to look for the famous treasure of Abbe Sauniere, which we imagine to be absolutely extraordinary. Are these legends founded? And in this case, how could the Grail have arrived in our country? The answer may be found in Provence, where it is claimed that it was Mary Magdalene, Christ's favorite disciple, who brought it. We can think that the Grail, in fact, was not an object, but a teaching. In this case the teaching provided by Mary Magdalene herself. But according to another hypothesis, the Grail would be the cup which would have collected the blood of Christ, a cup to which the Templars devoted a very mysterious cult, as proven by this imposing engraving found in a citadel. How to interpret it? Had the Templars discovered the Grail? Finally, in Fecamp, it has long been claimed that the Grail would simply be the true blood of Jesus and not the cup which collected it. That is to say blood collected from the wounds of Christ. Is this theory about the Grail really serious? What are the most credible hypotheses and why? Investigation into the most sacred myth in all of Christianity. Our quest for the Grail. It begins in Dordogne. And more precisely in the town of Domme, dominated by a citadel dating from the Middle Ages. Inside, hundreds of engravings on the walls. One of them seems particularly intriguing. In this place, therefore, the Grail which is the representation of the Holy Grail, which is the quest of every good knight. The authors of these astonishing engravings are the Templars. Never in the history of the spirituality of religious orders has a mass of men created as many mysteries as the Templars. Why did the Templars represent the sacred relic here? We will enter a place steeped in history and legends and try to unravel the mystery of the Templar engravings. In the heart of Perigord Noir. This is one of the most beautiful man-made villages in France on the banks of the Dordogne. Here, an imposing citadel, built in 1281, surprises with its size and architecture. Here in Domme, we are in a French royal bastide, originally a military bastide, since the gate of the towers was initially built to serve as a residence for the guardhouse. Shortly after its construction, this citadel was the scene of one of the most tragic episodes of the Middle Ages. To understand how its destiny changed, we must go back to the beginning of the 14th century. A military and religious order stemming from Christian chivalry then made a lot of talk. These are the Templars. Present in several European countries and particularly in France, it prospered for years. The Templars are absolutely idealized in their beginnings because they are both clergy and monks. They are nobility since they are knights. And then they are Third Estate, since at the same time they operate businesses, the cultivation of vines, the cultivation of wheat. So indeed, these are people who represent medieval society in its absolute ideal. A positive image which nevertheless deteriorated over the centuries, the wealth and tax privileges enjoyed by the Templars ended up leading to distrust and slander. The Templars, by dint of being powerful, will overshadow, especially the King of France. At the very beginning of the 14th century, Philip the Fair was embarrassed by this power which did not depend on him since the Templars only depended on the pope. And there, indeed, Philippe le Bel cannot really accept this kind of situation. Philippe le Bel will plan their disappearance. He will start by orchestrating rumors about their morals, about their religion which would be more or less heretical. It will last a few years, two or three years. And then one fine day, Friday the 13th, Friday October 13, 1307, all the Templars of the Kingdom of France on the same day will be arrested by the king's police, which is an operation, again of police which had never been done before. At the time of this surprise arrest, the Templars were very numerous in our country. It was necessary to find suitable places for their imprisonment. One of these places is the royal citadel of Domme. It then became a Templar prison. So here, you have to imagine only in this room 70 Templars imprisoned here from 1307 to 1318-1320. This is the last trace of life we have of Templars in the Porte des Tours. Abandoned to their sad fate in a dark room, with no exit. The Templars succumb one after the other. They know that the end of their order is inevitable. A handful of them then decide to leave a trace of their passage on the walls of the citadel. Most of these graffiti are religious symbols, which is not surprising from a Christian order. Almost all of them are easy to decipher. But it is the centerpiece of these engravings that intrigue enthusiasts so much. In this place, therefore, the Grail which is the quest of every good knight. The Grail, a powerful myth which goes back to the origins of Christianity. It is the cup with which Jesus, surrounded by his apostles, just before being arrested and therefore condemned, executed, celebrated the Last Supper. And then Joseph of Arimathea, who was apparently an uncle of Jesus Christ, collected a few drops of Jesus' blood after he had his side pierced during his agony by a Roman legionnaire. It is therefore the supreme relic that the Templars clearly and clearly engraved on the stone of the citadel of Domme. This Grail which collected the blood of Christ was certainly very precious in their eyes. Here, we don't often get used to seeing him. Normally it's just the vase. We can see that here the Templars made a lid like a precious stone, which is quite understandable given that the Templars were also scholars, knew a lot about alchemy, and therefore it is quite normal that they wanted to represent the Grail, very precious in their eyes. Why did the Templars represent the Grail on its walls? And how can we interpret what strangely resembles a coded message? We really have the impression that they left a message for posterity. Hoping that one day, perhaps, humanity will be able to find their message and find this mythical object that is the Grail. We can imagine that this is a sort of final confession in a way. That is, they represent the object for which they died, the object of which they obviously did not speak, for fear that it would fall into the hands of their enemies. Many people here, upon seeing the Grail, ask themselves the question. Perhaps the treasure of the Templars was that they may have gotten their hands on this famous Grail. Did the Templars possess the Grail? To try to unravel this mystery you have to look at Domme's graffiti more closely. So there, the lobed square, is the representation of the temple of Solomon, it is the perfect world, it is paradise. You should know that in the original history, the start of the history of the Templars, it was Baudouin II, the king of Jerusalem, who offered them, in quotes, the location of their first commandery which was the location of the ancient temple in Jerusalem. It is therefore to the temple of Solomon that the Templars owe their name. Considered as very good diplomats, they organized the journeys of pilgrims, particularly from Marseille, to the Holy Land. And it is there that the Templars may have discovered sacred objects like the Grail. The Templars were probably interested in it. They say so in their lawsuit. We actually remain in the realm of legend, but it may be true. Did the Templars really find the Grail? This hypothesis emerged well before Domme's graffiti was found in the writings of the time. Wolfram von Eschenbach, a mystical Christian writer, described the Templars as guardians of the Grail. In this Grail novel, the Parsifal, there is a castle, the Grail castle therefore where the Grail is located. And this castle is guarded by the Templars. And so that's very enigmatic. And we can wonder about the effective link between the Order of the Temple and the myths of the Grail and certain secrets surrounding the Grail. One of the roles of the Templars was... They protected the pilgrims, they protected the money, but they also protected the relics. So quite naturally, we include the Knights of the Temple who protect this relic. And then, with the passage of time and especially in the 20th century, we will say to ourselves but there you go, that's the secret of the Templars, that's the Grail. So the rumor of the Grail of the Templars was born in literature? But is it really a rumor? Why, just before disappearing, was the last act of the Templars to engrave the supreme relic on the walls of the citadel of Domme? There was still a whole period that was a little obscure, a little mysterious, where indeed the circumstances took place in a very important way and we ask ourselves why wouldn't he, wouldn't he have gone to look for this object in the Holy Land? magic and bring it back to France for safekeeping? So did the Knights of the Order of the Temple really possess the Grail? To this day, no one can say with certainty. But if that were the case, we can easily imagine that they wanted to put it in a safe place so that the mysterious relic remained inaccessible. If the Grail is often associated with Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea, two disciples of Christ, some wonder about its possible arrival in France. Was it reported by the Templars? Maybe. Unless he was brought back by another figure from the Gospels, Mary Magdalene. A surprising hypothesis which has its source in Provence. Here, two astonishing places of worship plunge us into the heart of a deep mystery. The monumental basilica of Saint Maximin, Sainte-Baume and a few kilometers away, an enigmatic cave transformed into a sanctuary. Saint Maximin and Sainte-Baume are two inseparable places in relation to Marie-Madeleine. Why would Mary Magdalene, one of the apostles closest to Jesus, come to Provence? Was it to hide the Grail there? We will try to unravel the mystery hidden behind this icon which has left its mark in Provence and perhaps much more. In the Var department. Pine forests cover the hills around Saint-Maximin. A small town curiously endowed with a basilica of impressive dimensions. We are often surprised when we arrive in Saint-Maximin to see a monument of such importance in a small town of 17,000 inhabitants. The basilica is a very important building which is 75 meters long, 25 meters wide and whose vaults rise to almost 30 meters high. This makes it the largest Gothic building in Provence. A basilica built in the 13th century, just after the discovery of a precious treasure. Here we are in the Holy of Holies, I was going to say the most important place of this magnificent basilica which is the Gallo-Roman crypt which contains a magnificent gilded bronze reliquary which contains a skull. The head of Saint Mary Magdalene. Mary Magdalene, the most enigmatic of Jesus' disciples. It holds a privileged place in the Gospels. The day after her crucifixion, it is to her that Christ appears. This is what Christians call resurrection. Christ chose Mary Magdalene to charge her with this mission of announcing the news of the resurrection to all the disciples. Theologians, moreover, will call him the apostle of the apostles. And that gives it a very special status. The importance of the relic of Mary Magdalene has attracted pilgrims from all over the world since the 13th century. It must be understood that it is, from a hierarchical point of view, the third tomb in Christianity. The first being of course the tomb of Christ in Jerusalem, the second that of Saint Peter in Rome, and the third that of the apostle of the resurrection Mary Magdalene in Saint Maximin. And it is in the very place where she came to die that this basilica was built. When she felt her death approaching, she came to this small Gallo-Roman town. Where she met Maximin, first bishop of Aix, who gave her the last communion and who buried her on the spot. Why would Mary Magdalene have stayed in Provence? Did she have something to convey? Or maybe something to protect? We said a lot of things. It was said that Mary Magdalene brought the Grail she brought a cup. There are many things that have flowed from this figure of Mary Magdalene. That proves its importance. Some were able to make Mary Magdalene the bearer of the Grail, that is to say that she left the East with this relic, with this sacred cup. It is therefore in Provence that the myth of the Grail linked to Mary Magdalene was born. But what is it really about? If many consider the Grail as a sacred relic which would have contained the blood of Christ, the story of Mary Magdalene reveals other new interpretations of this mysterious object. To discover them, you have to go to an atypical place located about twenty kilometers from Saint Maximin, the Sainte-Baume massif. An impressive forest topped by a monumental limestone block dotted with numerous caves. One of them has become an unusual place of worship. We are in the center of this immense limestone cliff, in a cave of impressive proportions. In this cave, Mary Magdalene lived the last 30 years of her life. If Provencal traditions are to be believed. Mary Magdalene would therefore have chosen this simple cave as her last resort. The cave, in fact, is an extremely particular and at the same time strange place since you enter a cavity as if you were entering the very cave of the mountain. We actually feel a presence, whatever it may be. This cave converted into a sanctuary questions the journey of Mary Magdalene. Why would she have left Palestine to come here? Early Christians suffered persecution in Palestine after the death of Christ. Mary Magdalene also suffered, with her family and her companions, these persecutions which led to her being expelled from Judea. They were sent by boat to the Mediterranean Sea to get rid of these first Christians who were starting to be very troublesome. We have a whole bunch of hagiographies, that is to say of the lives of saints, which will explain to us that Mary Magdalene left in a boat and that in this boat, she crossed the Mediterranean and that she arrived as far as on the Provencal coasts. Marie-Madeleine and her companions would have arrived at the place that we now call the Saintes Maries de la Mer. According to this same Provencal tradition, it was to accomplish a very specific mission that Marie-Madeleine would have come to the south of France. Mary Magdalene came to Provence, certainly to spread the good word, therefore to evangelize. She is one of the first evangelists in Gaul. She is a woman who carries a message that has been deeply touched and moved by Christ. So she will continue the mission of the man she loved. All traditions tell us that Mary Magdalene taught the Gospel to the local people. She converted them to Christianity. Mary Magdalene would therefore have played an essential role in the emergence of what was then only a new religion. But why would she choose to retire to a place as mysterious and inaccessible as a cave? What motivated him above all was to find his Lord, it was to find Jesus again. And she decides to isolate herself to lead a life of recluse prayer and penance in an isolated, solitary and wild place. However, some doubt the hypothesis of a spiritual retreat. They think that this isolated cavity was above all an ideal place to shelter something. An astonishing supposition revealed by a precious object dating from the 19th century and which would be directly linked to the mysterious journey of Mary Magdalene to Provence. So this is another reliquary of Saint Mary Magdalene, a reliquary, which contains a tibia of Mary Magdalene. There we find enamels, semi-precious stones and we find a rather extraordinary representation which is that of the boat. A completely astonishing, surprising scene, which represents the journey of Mary Magdalene, her crossing of the Mediterranean. There is the figure of Mary Magdalene which is central. We will notice a very intriguing detail : at the front of this boat, a body which is lying down, which is mummified, a body of death which is being transported. Obviously we are being told that Marie-Madeleine and her people brought back the body of someone dear to them to the south of France. One tradition would say that in fact, it was the body of Jesus that was in the boat. The body of Jesus. That is to say the ultimate relic. What if this was the Grail of Mary Magdalene? I find it hard to think that this woman who seems so attached to the body of the man she loved would leave it there without taking it with her, possibly the Grail brought back by Mary Magdalene. We can go so far as to say that it could have been the body of Christ. But for Catholics, this theory is completely unacceptable. It is something extraordinarily heavy, of consequences, very heavy of consequences. Because that denies the entire Catholic religion. If she returned with the body of Christ, there is no more resurrection. This is to deny the resurrection. The body of Jesus transported to Provence? A paradox for an apostle of the resurrection. Unless the anonymous author of this reliquary wanted to represent an allegory. In this case, this body would vividly evoke the most precious possession that Mary Magdalene would have taken with her. Reading certain documents, particularly from archaeological researchers, one may think that the Grail, in fact, was not an object, but a teaching. Mary Magdalene will claim to have the true teaching of Christ, that which she received in secret from him. It is very likely that Mary Magdalene left or wrote during her journey or once she arrived at the destination of the writings. Writings that told his version of Christ's teaching. Whatever Mary Magdalene's Grail was, it had inestimable value in her eyes. And if she took refuge here, it may be to protect her treasure. Because it is said that the Sainte-Baume cave has not revealed all its secrets. This cave could have had one. I would dare to say, in quotation marks, an antechamber. There is a whole part of the underground network of Sainte Baume which, intentionally. So by whom we can ask the question, was hidden, was closed to prevent access. Some parts could have been awkward compared to practices that could have happened at the very moment of Mary Magdalene's arrival. For 2000 years, the dark rocks of this Provencal cave have held the mystery of the Grail of Mary Magdalene. Which must still remain many mysteries to be elucidated in this place, since in our opinion, not everything has been discovered. We can obviously imagine that some are hiding the truth, that some have hidden a secret in the Sainte Baume massif. Condemned from galleries that would access a place that would completely call into question the history of Christianity. Documents containing a previously unpublished version of Christianity. Was this the Grail of Mary Magdalene? Whatever the answer. After the death of the disciple, the Grail sank into oblivion for nearly 1000 years. It was only in the Middle Ages that the myth reappeared, pushing men to commit insane acts to possess it. In France, a place bears witness to the worst madness generated by this obsession with the Grail. The castle of Montsegur, in Ariege. A few kilometers from the Pyrenees, these green mountains were the scene of one of the most enigmatic episodes in our history. In 1943, while in command of the Nazi army, Himmler turned the region upside down for some insane reason. Himmler is said to have ordered one of his best commandos to go to Montsegur and finally find the Grail. These excavations are motivated by a centuries-old legend. Since the Middle Ages, it has been rumored that the Cathars hid a precious treasure in the region. Maybe the Grail. Built at an altitude of 1200 meters, at the top of a rocky spur called the POG. The castle of Montsegur, which guards the foothills of the Pyrenees, leaves no one indifferent. When we see this mountain. If we arrive by all the surrounding roads, we have a kind of limestone layer which stands out from all the high mountains. Then, there is the shape of this mountain, this sort of pyramid shape which gives the impression of having a very slender block of rock which is going to reach the sky. In 1204, members of a mysterious religious movement found an ideal site to prosper here. At the beginning of the 13th century, the Cathar community asked the lord of Montsegur to be able to settle at the top of the mountain. It will be like a refugee camp which will then transform into a village and which will have a life for almost 40 years. The Cathars appeared in Occitania at the beginning of the 12th century. In total break with the Vatican, this new religion is increasingly attractive more people, which greatly displeases the Pope and the King of France who decides to eradicate all the heretics by launching a crusade in the south of France. This is why Rome and the king of France will together send an army of 3000 men to besiege Montsegur and put an end to Catharism. In 1243, the Crusader army attacked. The siege lasted ten months and ended with a gigantic pyre where more than 200 Cathars were eliminated. However, it seems that a handful of resistance fighters were able to escape with the greatest discretion. The day before the pyre which will burn 225 people, well we know that four Cathars will escape over the cliffs using ropes. If this month of March 1244 marks the end of Catharism. It is also the beginning of an incredible legend. On the other hand, the texts do not speak. If they escaped with something. It is this lack of information that many writers in the 19th century put into their hands. Well a good number of objects, a good number of treasures including the Grail. This legend of the Cathars leaving with a treasure will last from the 13th century to the present day. At the beginning of the 1930s, the mystery of the Grail of the Cathars hidden in Ariege aroused the interest of a German archaeologist, a certain Otto Rahn. He will try to go in search of the Grail. He will look for it around the castle, in the smallest cavities. He will start looking through the stones and debris. After searching the interior of the castle courtyard, he will come to this room. The lower room of the dungeon in which he believes the Grail was stored. Rahn searches every nook and cranny of the Montsegur mountain, but his search comes to nothing. However, it gave birth to a book, The Crusade against the Grail, in which Otto Rahn recounts the flight of the Cathars, their disappearance with this mysterious treasure. He also details his long quest for the Grail in Ariege. A saga that immediately fascinates an unexpected personality. This book will be known to Himmler since it will come across his desk and Himmler will become passionate about the quest for the Grail. The leader of the Nazi army is passionate about mysticism and archeology. Otto Rahn's book enthused him, so much so that he decided to incorporate its author into the SS. Its goal ? Search for the Grail of the Cathars and find it by all means. The power of the Grail myth is such that the Nazis will seek it materially and that some of Himmler's movements are due solely to his desire to find the Grail. If they sent troops to certain places to find the Grail, it is because they have elements which suggest that there is something to find there. In 1936, Otto Rahn returned to Montsegur and now worked in secret for the Third Reich. He's going to stay here, at the Couquet hotel. What he does is he puts himself in touch with local scholars who, let's say, are neo-Cathar groups in a way, who are interested in Catharism. This group of scholars, in fact, often meets on the ground floor and therefore they debate for entire evenings on the theme of Catharism, the Grail among others, etc. Secret meetings about the Grail and in the hotel where he is staying what's more. Rahn couldn't have dreamed of anything better. The leader of these debates is Antonin Gadal, a Cathar specialist versed in mysticism. Rahn confides to him that his research undertaken a few years earlier on the heights of Montsegur yielded nothing. But according to Gadal, there remains one place that Rahn has not searched. However, this is where the Grail could be hidden. He will make the link with the four Cathars who escaped the night before the stake. And who would have hidden it in the caves around Tarascon in Ariege. And it is from there that with Antonin Gadal, both of them, they will go to look for the Grail in these caves. The two friends have their work cut out for them. Around Tarascon, in Ariege, in its Occitan mountains, there are many caves. They constitute as many possible refuges for hunted people. We know that two Cathars came to hide here because it was mentioned in an interrogation by the 13th century Inquisition which sought to uncover the network of these people. Who exactly were these two Cathars? The documents say nothing about it. Could it be those who fled from Montsegur? For lack of convincing clues, Rahn and Gadal's investigation is at a standstill, but one of the caves in the region intrigues them. Called Bethlehem Cave. It was for a long time a mecca for initiation into Catharism. In the texts, when Montsegur is going to be taken, the treasure, the money, the fund of the Cathar church leaves Montsegur and it passes through. And the text of the Inquisition is clear. It passes through one of the caves, one of the 25 fortified caves. Maybe this one. Was the Bethlehem cave the final hiding place of the last Cathars? But then, what mysterious treasure would he have transported here? There are people who will say that treasure is not money, it is an intangible good, possibly the Grail. So, that explains why we have the cups that are engraved in this cave. In 1939, Otto Rahn and Antonin Gadal tirelessly searched this strange cave. But their searches remain in vain. For his part, Himmler grew impatient and demanded results. For fear of punishment, Rahn then commits an incredible act. We know that Antonin Gadal and Otto Rahn are not content to interpret signs that are more or less natural or caused by man. Otto Rahn himself created symbols from scratch which he then attributed to the Cathars, due to the fact that he found nothing in his research, linked of course to the Grail and the Cathars. Otto Rahn will never find the Grail. As for Himmler, he could have stopped there, but paradoxically, the failure of his research only strengthened his determination. During the year 44. Well, Himmler would have ordered one of his best kommandos to go to Montsegur according to Rahn's plans, and to finally find the Grail that Rahn had never managed to find. This commando is led by Otto Skorzeny, Hitler's favorite henchman. A real war machine charged with the most delicate missions by the Nazi high command. Otto Skorzeny is still the formidable beast of the SS in Europe who sows terror and fear. It was an SS commando who participated in his most famous coup in freeing Mussolini from a prison in Italy and bringing him back to Germany to Hitler. The Nazi Army deploys considerable resources for its ultimate quest for the Grail. The population knows nothing about these excavations which are taking place in the greatest secrecy. However, it didn't take long for a rumor to arise. Otto Skorzeny therefore, according to this rumor, found the Grail and an important treasure, a monetary treasure with relics. And so he would have found him there in the mountains. And so this commando would have got their hands on a chest containing ancient currency as well as relics. Did the Nazi Army really find treasure? But in this case, what happened to him? So he would have taken it near Berlin, and afterward, with the end of the war, well, this treasure would have been scattered. A thick mystery surrounds the secret excavations carried out by the Nazis around Montsegur. Did he find the Grail of the Cathars? Nobody knows. But there are other stories which evoke the presence of the Grail in Ariege. Long before Himmler. Another place located a few kilometers away of Montsegur, was the scene of fierce excavations. Here again, we are talking about a mysterious buried treasure. Was it the Grail of the Cathars? We are in Rennes le Chateau. This small town perched on top of a hill is located in the heart of Cathar country, around fifty kilometers from Montsegur. What is surprising here is this sumptuous estate built in the 19th century in the space of a few years by a sulphurous abbot, Beranger Sauniere. This priest couldn't build all that, obviously, with his priest's salary. So he found something. And what he found was a treasure. Some whisper that this priceless treasure could be the Grail. If that is the case. Was it that of the Cathars? At the heart of a site steeped in history and mysteries, we will try to shed light on this intriguing affair. Perched on a rocky peak overlooking the Aude and Salses valleys, Rennes-le-chateau was a prosperous town in the Middle Ages. So in Rennes le Chateau, 800 years ago, you have to imagine a real small city. It was a stronghold, similar in size to Carcassonne. A city relatively spared from the devastating crusade led against the Cathars in the 13th century. While the region was on fire, Rennes The castle was quietly growing in its corner, which did not fail to attract the attention of a few Cathars. Which makes it possible that Cathars came here 800 years ago. This is because it is an anonymous place which is not associated with Catharism, because it is a place which offers, as we know, a fairly large underground network, therefore a very interesting potential for hiding something. thing. At the dawn of the 19th century, the existence of a possible treasure at Rennes Castle was nothing more than a vague legend. But the arrival of a strange abbot will revive the wildest assumptions. The link between the Cathar treasure and Rennes The castle actually emerged because of the Sauniere affair. Without the Sauniere affair, we certainly would not have talked about it in this area. It was really Abbot Sauniere who brought out this possibility of a Cathar treasure in Rennes le Chateau. In 1835, an enthusiastic young man of 33, Berenger Sauniere, had just been appointed parish priest of Rennes le Chateau. But what he discovers when he arrives in the village is very far from what he had imagined. He is a little desperate when he arrives in this village. For what ? Because at the time, it was a very poor, peasant village. The houses are in a state of near ruin and the church is in an absolutely pitiful state. Sauniere is disappointed. But a year after his arrival, he undertook to restore everything thanks to the generosity of anonymous donors. The spectacular and totally unexpected result for a simple country priest. They are building a truly incredible estate for a country priest. He built a Renaissance style villa, a neo-Gothic tower with a belvedere which connects this neo-Gothic tower to another Eiffel Tower made in green. He creates parks and gardens around it and he receives with pomp friends who belong to the wealthy bourgeoisie, to the aristocracy. Lavish spending that does not go unnoticed in this small village. How can this modest country priest afford such a luxurious lifestyle? And it will spread a rumor among the inhabitants of the village. This priest couldn't build all that, obviously, with his priest's salary. So he found something and what he found was a treasure. In the village, the rumor spreads quickly. Could this treasure be the Grail? Because the abbot made astonishing discoveries during his work. Secret places hidden from everyone. There, in his church. We know that he found archaeological pieces which he certainly found the entrance to the crypt which is located under the church. A thesis which is confirmed thanks to the daily logbook kept by this disturbing abbot. The note he wrote on September 21, 1891 leaves little room for doubt. While he was in the middle of work in the church, Berenger Sauniere noted the discovery of a tomb. So we know from this diary that Father Sauniere, in 1891, discovered a tomb. Thanks to the same notebook. We also know that he fired the masons who until then had worked in the church and hired others instead. Obviously he's trying to hide something. This mysterious affair intrigues and shocks the villagers. Some will even go so far as to file a complaint against Berenger Sauniere. And these complaints all relate, in the years 1895-1897, that Abbot Sauniere turned the cemetery upside down and that he carried out excavations. Soon, rumors surrounding the mysterious treasure of Rennes le Chateau gradually attracted enthusiasts from all over France. In the 60s, it was an explosion. Everyone comes here to look for the famous treasure of Abbe Sauniere, which we imagine to be absolutely extraordinary. In the church, something particularly attracts the attention of treasure hunters. Five statues representing saints arranged on either side of the nave. When we have fun looking at the names of these saints, we notice if we trace an M between the statues, that these statues give us a message. If we take the initial letters of all these statues, we have Germaine G. Roch, R. Antoine Hermite, A. Antoine de Padoue, A. And Luc L. Which gives us the acronym Grail. Another clue also suggests that there may be a secret link between the Church and the Grail. And the statue of Saint Mary Magdalene which is not included in this M. That the statues carry a cup in their hand, A cup well highlighted by its silver color, which could therefore be a representation of the Grail. For treasure hunters. These signs are proof that Abbot Sauniere undoubtedly got his hands on one of the most sought-after relics in the world. There are anomalies in the Church, little things which are not quite in their place and which seem to suggest that Abbe Sauniere would have coded the decoration of his church, that he would have concealed a real message leading for some to locate the treasure, for others to transmit a message. To understand the very enigmatic language of Abbot Sauniere, you must observe the other statues in the nave, notably those of Saint Anthony of Padua. It is believed that this is a nod from Berenger Sauniere to a discovery he made to Saint Antoine de Padua. He is the saint who is invoked when looking for a lost object. Berenger Sauniere would have put him in the spotlight because he found something lost while doing the work in the church. It would therefore seem that the abbot deliberately sowed clues which could lead to the so-called treasure of Rennes le Chateau, in other words to the Grail. The key to the mystery may be found under this strange font which represents a representation of the devil. This devil has particularities. With his hand he draws a circle and then he has a sitting position. These two elements could be compared to a place which is located near Rennes le Chateau in Rennes les Bains. This is the devil's chair next to which is the source of the circle. This devil, associated with the presence of two mysterious initials in a medallion, therefore seems to support the theory of a disguised landmark. Perhaps the initials of Berenger Sauniere? Unless it's something else entirely. It seems a little arrogant for a priest who must remain humble to mark his initials at the entrance to the church. And that's why we favor another hypothesis, because BS is also Blanque and Sals. Two streams of water which intersect near the Devil's chair and the source of the circle. But if Abbot Sauniere has indeed found a treasure, what is this treasure? Is this the one taken by the Cathars during their flight from Montsegur to escape the crusade? The treasure of the Cathars. This is certainly one of those ancient texts that dates back to the very first Christianity. And it must be understood that the Cathars claimed to be the true heirs of Christ and that they certainly had in their hands a very ancient gospel which therefore presents Jesus from a completely different angle from that presented by the Catholic Church. Some claim that Abbot Sauniere blackmailed the Church by threatening to divulge this unpublished gospel which would have threatened the foundations of Christianity. The texts that the Cathars most certainly had in hand were first brought to Gallic territory by Mary Magdalene. Had Abbot Sauniere discovered a gospel written by Mary Magdalene? Even today, there is nothing to confirm this hypothesis and the mystery of Rennes Le Chateau continues to fascinate treasure hunters. Like this incredible enigma, many other places in France contain secrets linked to the Grail. One of them, particularly unusual, evokes the existence of a Grail even more precious than all the others. It is in Fecamp, in Normandy, that we will discover it. This small coastal town is home to an architectural masterpiece. the Trinity Abbey, an impressive building which contains a unique relic in the world. It has a much greater value in the medieval mind than any other relic relating to a traditional saint. This exceptional relic would be neither more nor less than the blood of Christ, in other words the supreme Grail. But by what miracle could he have arrived here? We will try to unravel the mystery of the precious blood of Fecamp. When you discover the Trinity Abbey Church, you can only be seduced by this magnificent example of primitive Gothic style architecture. The Abbey Church of Fecamp is an imposing building. It measures 127 meters long. Here you have a building which has the dimensions of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris, with a considerable elevation. It is truly an exceptional place. But to glimpse the true treasure of the abbey church, you have to go behind the altar of the monument. This is the reliquary in which is the relic known as the precious blood of Christ of Fecamp. This relic is located here, and believers could come and see it in these two orifices against which two cylinders which are filled with a material abut. And the monks of Fecamp attested that this material was the blood of Christ. The blood of Christ. The ultimate relic, the one which gave birth to the myth of the Grail. By affirming that he possesses the blood of Christ. The monks of Fecamp claim that they possess the Supreme Grail. Because in the search for the Grail, what counts is the fact that we are looking for a cup which contained the blood of Christ. Around the precious blood of Christ. A multitude of stories, legends and beliefs, an invaluable treasure to which some attribute powers, notably that of performing miracles. The precious blood of Fecamp is attributed with thaumaturgical powers, healing powers, miraculous powers which are even more important than those attributed to all the other relics, since there we have the supreme relic, the one which is linked to the body and the blood of Christ. This incredible relic should logically be found in one of the holiest places in Christianity, in Rome or Jerusalem. So how can we explain its presence here? It all begins at the beginning of the Middle Ages. Fecamp is then a small , quiet town in the Duchy of Normandy whose modest church is currently being renovated. During the work, the monks discovered two lead cases hidden in one of the pillars. Inside his cases, a brownish substance that he immediately identifies. The monks claim possession in Fecamp of the precious blood of Christ, that is to say blood collected from Christ's wounds. The blood of Christ that the disciples Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea would have collected in this famous chalice whose name evokes magic, power and wealth. The Graal. Well what could be more noble, more prestigious than the blood of Christ? According to this theory, the Grail would therefore not be the cup which collected the blood of Christ, but the blood itself. To understand how they would have arrived in Fecamp, we have to go back 2000 years. At this time, Christians were persecuted in Palestine. Many of them then had to flee the Holy Land. This remarkable relic would have been threatened by the Romans and then this relic would have been placed in a fig tree trunk. This fig tree would have been placed on the waves in the Holy Land and would have arrived miraculously on the beach of Fecamp. This fabulous relic would therefore have been saved in a desperate gesture, like throwing a bottle into the sea. A legend? Hard to believe, except for the monks of Fecamp. Basically, the idea is to show that Fecamp was chosen by God since the dawn of time as a particular place intended to receive this relic. To claim possession of the blood collected from the wounds of Christ is to claim possession of the most remarkable relic that can exist in the Christian West, since it is a relic, not of a saint, but of one who is the holy of holies, that is, Jesus Christ. The interest in owning such a relic is obvious. However, is the precious blood of Fecamp really that of Christ? Why did the monks who found it immediately attribute it to Jesus? We know well that pilgrimages were a very considerable source of income. To see the precious blood. Pilgrims come en masse to Fecamp and make donations. The monks then collected a small fortune which allowed them to afford a church of pharaonic dimensions. the Abbey Church that we know today. We will double the number of bays in the nave and go from 60 meters, which was already imposing for the time, to almost 120 m at the start of the 13th century. The abbots of Fecamp will quickly understand that to succeed in building a large building, developing the pilgrimage around the relics of the precious blood will be a very effective means. Is the precious relic of the Trinity Abbey church just an imposture to attract the faithful? But in this case, what should we think of the many miracles attributed to him? The answer may be found in the spiritual dimension of the quest for the Grail, whatever its true nature, as long as one has faith. The quest for the Grail is the quest for the Absolute. So we are not really going to try to find a material object, but we are going to enter into a quest to be in a particular state of mind and we are going to aim for an ideal, an inaccessible star in some way. In any case, if the objective of the monks of Fecamp was to attract the faithful, they were perfectly successful since the pilgrimages continued until the 1960s. Since then, if the legend has fallen a little into oblivion , the reliquary is still in Fecamp and some remain convinced that it indeed contains the blood of Christ. But among all these mysteries surrounding the quest for the Grail, how do we know which one comes closest to historical truth? The key to what remains The greatest enigma of all time lies perhaps be in Brittany, in the heart of the Broceliande forest. It was in this setting that another legend was born, that of the Knights of the Round Table. Two brave fighters united around a single goal: finding the famous Grail. The new place that we are going to discover is located on the edge of this legendary forest. It is a small, unusual church in the heart of the village of Trehorenteuc. This church tells us about the quest for the Grail. Full of mysterious symbols and multiple representations of the Grail. the Church is a true ode to the holy relic. It was the will of the abbot who devoted 20 years of his life to this building. Abbot Gillard is a priest who marked his colleagues for his freedom of thought. You will discover the astonishing history of this small church and its Creator. A dive into the land of Arthurian legends where the Grail is once again at the center of many mysteries. In Morbihan, the mythical Broceliande forest runs alongside a peaceful village, Trehorenteuc, dominated by a traditional church. It's a pretty little church. What strikes you first is the color of the stone, this stone from Broceliande which we call purple schist. A small church which therefore seems most classic. But when we look at it more closely, it turns out to be very mysterious. So the first thing that surprises you when you arrive here is this sentence. "The door is within" is something completely unusual and unique for a church. It is a message which invites us to decode the Church, to understand the meaning of the symbols. Inside, the decoration surprises. Atypical representations coexist. When we enter this church, we will find ourselves in a veritable forest of symbols and we will understand that there may be a double standard, that there may be a coded message, camouflaged in this church. A message linked to the Grail omnipresent in the church. The nickname of the building leaves no doubt. The Church here is dedicated to Saint Onenne, but it's true that everyone calls it the Church of the Grail. At the origin of this astonishing building, a strange abbot, Henri Gillard. Its history in Trehorenteuc begins in 1942. Trehorenteuc in the 1940s. It is a village which is completely lost. You can only get there by a dirt road. It's the end of the world. We must, we must set out, we must set out to get there. When he arrives in this small Breton village of 150 souls, the newly appointed abbot discovers a disastrous situation. 1942 is still in the middle of World War II. People are most concerned about eating. Who will listen to mass? The parishioners are absent and the church is unusable. She was threatening to collapse. Already in 1933, it was declared fit for demolition. It's not a ruin, but almost. It's not a good sight for him. While he dreamed of high responsibilities. the Abbot realizes that he was sent to a disaster zone because his superiors doubt him. He seemed kind like that, gentle, and beneath this appearance of gentleness, you still felt that there was a will, a firmness. Which also meant that his superiors had monitored him. He is a priest who marked his colleagues for his freedom of thought. Without making a bad pun, he's not quite on point. The diocese said OK, we are going to give him a position suited to him, where we are sure that we will be at peace, we will not hear from him again. And there was this small village of Trehorenteuc which was nicknamed the chamber pot of Morbihan, to say the least. It's a strange promotion, a kind of closet in a way. It was, in a way, a punishment that had been inflicted on him. A punishment that will turn into a real revelation. Henri Gillard was not a man to let himself be discouraged. He had this ability to... He had faith. A challenge, a test to take up, a test sent directly by what God calls him. And so he will take this test. He said to himself, "They put me here, I'm here, I'm staying here." Over the months, the church took shape again. But when the crucial stage of decoration comes , the abbot's choices surprise the inhabitants. So here we are in front of the first room that Father Guillard had installed. The year is 1943, just one year after his arrival. The chosen theme is that of the round table. We see just above the table Christ who is on the cross, pierced by the spear. From this spear we see the blood flowing which is collected in the chalice and we are told that it is the Holy Grail. With this first stained glass window, one might think that the abbot wanted to pay homage to the famous legends of Broceliande. However, when we observe it more closely, the reproduction of the Knights of the Round Table presents an intriguing particularity. To King Arthur's right is what the Grail novels call the Perilous Siege. It is a seat which is empty, which must be occupied by the knight who will complete the quest for the Grail. On this stained glass window, this seat is occupied, which clearly means that the Grail has been found. This is the first message from Father Guillard in his church. The quest for the Grail is complete. A message hidden in a stained glass window. the Abbot exploits this process without moderation. Just opposite, we have another stained glass window which in some way represents the origin of the Grail, since it is the Last Supper, that is to say the last meal of Christ. There is a game of mirrors, that is to say that we are presented on one side with the origin of the Grail and on the other with the story of its quest and the completion of its quest. the Church turns out to be riddled with disturbing references which make it a sort of ode to the Holy Grail. By placing the Grail so visibly on the stained glass windows right in the heart. This is because he wanted to give it a special meaning. It marks the direction it takes from that moment on that the church will take thereafter. That is to say it will be a Grail temple. Each new element of decoration confirms the fascination, even the obsession, of the abbot with the Holy Relic. So we now arrive behind the large stained glass window behind the main altar. An absolutely major work which once again highlights the Grail, since the central scene of this stained glass window is the appearance of Jesus and the Grail to Joseph of Arimathea. Joseph who is represented, kneeling facing Christ and the Grail in a teeming universe which is the forest universe with oak leaves. We are really there, in the forest outside. Joseph of Arimathea, in the heart of Broceliande, symbol of King Arthur's quest. This choice is not so unusual since the holy man appears in the writings of the Knights of the Round Table. Henri Gillard really makes a link between this Christian tradition and this Arthurian tradition. But here again, certain representations are striking. When we look at this stained glass window, we will notice a certain number of details and, in my opinion, the most significant of them are these two rabbits. One of these rabbits puts its paw in front of its mouth to whisper something in the ear of the other. Undeniably, with these two rabbits, we have the idea that there is a secret in this church, that there is a secret that must be found. What secret is this? When we see the theme of this stained glass window, we can only think that this secret is linked to the Grail and to something that the abbot Gillard would have found connection with the Grail. If we are to believe all these clues, has Father Gillard really found the Grail? The hypothesis seems insane. Unless this Grail is not the famous cup which contained the blood of Christ, but something else even more precious. We can have another definition of the Grail. Wouldn't it be a writing, a hidden writing linked to the true life and true teaching of Christ? Texts that could be called the Grail. There are truly several paths that lead to the Grail. Secret texts dating from the origins of Christianity, hidden in Trehorenteuc. This avenue also seems improbable. However, the writings of Father Gillard seem to be well supported. The priest is even very precise when he talks about the journey of Joseph of Arimathea after his departure from the Holy Land. And Abbot Gillard was convinced that Joseph of Arimathea had indeed passed here and that he had brought the Grail. It seems that he passed through Brittany. In any case, that's what Henri Gillard says in his writings. He says that even he would have hidden the Grail here. How could the abbot have found texts hidden more than 2000 years ago? Other elements of the answer may be hidden in the decoration of this astonishing church. In this painting, for example, the abbot resurrects a controversial figure called Aeon of the Star. He lived during the Middle Ages and there are testimonies that he came here. In the years 1143-1145. Who is part of the same movement as Catharism Eon de l'etoile is what we call a heretic, that is to say a Christian who will leave the ranks and who will profess Christianity. A way of believing completely different from that presented by the Church. Like all heretics Eon of the star was condemned. But did he have secret documents dating from the origin of Christianity which disturbed the Church? Could these be the same documents brought to Brittany by Joseph of Arimathea? There is certainly a connection between Aeon of the Star and Joseph of Arimathea. And this link is the central motif of this church, namely the Grail. Christians led by Joseph of Arimathea could have arrived in this region. Clandestinely, certain texts would have circulated from hand to hand over the centuries and at a given moment, some of these texts emerge and inspire the mysticism of Aeon of the Star. In turn, would Aeon of the Star have kept his precious writings safe? And would the abbot have found them centuries later? Another element of the decoration could suggest this. One of the particularities of this church is its Stations of the Cross. It will include the Passion of Christ in the local landscape, that is to say that we will recognize houses of Trehorenteuc on certain stations. This is a particularity since all the other stations of the cross are located in the East, around Jerusalem. Surprisingly, Father Gillard therefore chose to break the codes to create a Stations of the Cross unique in the world. Did he just want to be creative or did he once again try to hide a message in his decoration? Abbot Gillard means something to us on the Grail route, particularly the route around Trehorenteuc. We can assume that he created a sort of coded map that perhaps invites us to undertake a certain journey outside the church to find something. If we are to believe the abbot's allegations. The Grail would therefore have been hidden in the forest of Broceliande. Because on the Stations of the Cross, biblical characters rub shoulders with legendary figures. This mysterious interpretation of the Passion of Christ will also cause a scandal. Abbot Gillard will represent Christ collapsed in front of the fairy Morgane. She is in a dress that plays on transparencies, which highlights the shape of her body. Showing Christ, the Man-God on his knees in front of the fairy Morgana who is overflowing with sensuality, it will shock. And that doesn't happen. The abbot's imagination creates controversy. The works he presents scandalize his hierarchy. It is his hierarchy who will put an end to his work in Trehorenteuc and who will finally, let us say the word, drive him out of the village with a ban on returning to this church, because, for his bishop, Abbot Gillard went a lot too far. The sanction is heavy for Father Gillard. After 20 years spent serving his church and his parishioners, he was disowned. No one has managed to unravel its mystery. Had he found the Grail when he arrived in Trehorenteuc? And in this case, what was it precisely? the Abbot took his secret to his grave. In a way, it continues to welcome visitors with its eternally intriguing air. Since the Middle Ages, the Grail has been at the heart of the greatest intrigues. Invisible and inaccessible, it has nevertheless left its mysterious mark on our country. At the heart of our heritage, the Grail takes multiple forms and reveals itself to be even more mysterious than we thought. Precious chalices, apocryphal documents, body or blood of Christ, whether fantasy or reality, squandered or hidden somewhere in France, the Grail has not finished unleashing passions and nourishing our imagination.