An Epic History / Drachinifel collaboration. In 1792, the French Revolution sparked a A struggle for mastery of Europe, and the world. A contest fought on land, and sea. In this war of shifting alliances, the most Britain could not challenge France on land. Britain's Royal Navy was as dominant on the And in an age when Britain had many skilled Horatio Nelson. Bold, inspiring, and brilliant... For the These are the stories of his greatest battles. 1797. The Revolutionary War is in its fifth It has conquered the Low Countries.. and northern At sea, the British navy rules supreme, having But a new alliance between France and Spain Ship for ship, the British Its crews are experienced and well-led, officers during the Revolution, and Britain also has the most ships - largest vessels of the age, and the only France has just 69. But the new alliance with Spain adds If these allies can join forces British - and could force a naval victory Britain's largest naval force is the Channel Detachments watch France's Atlantic ports, where the French have several powerful Britain's Mediterranean Fleet - operating from bases in Corsica, Elba and Naples. But now Spain's joined the war, in the Med, and decide to make a Here, the fleet is reinforced to 15 Admiral Sir John Jervis, is ordered In February 1797, five Spanish on Spain's south coast, bound for Cadiz. They carry a cargo of mercury, vital for refining the silver and gold which arrives in The convoy is considered so important entire Spanish battlefleet: 27 After escorting the merchant ships Admiral Cordoba, will continue to If he is successful, the British will face a giant With the help of a strong Levanter wind, the Spanish pass swiftly through But the wind blows them too As they struggle back towards Cadiz, Meanwhile, British frigate HMS Minerve is Aboard, an emerging star of the He plans to rejoin Admiral Jervis's HMS Minerve first survives a Then, on the dark, foggy night of 11th February, she suddenly finds herself in the The British are so close they can Minerve remains undetected, Two days later Nelson reaches the British Jervis has received, that the enemy are near - Jervis orders his fleet to prepare for Admiral Sir John Jervis, commander a prosperous middle-class background, Now aged 62, he has 40 years' experience at sea He's faced battle many times, but this will be He's fortunate to have several outstanding Troubridge.. Saumarez.. and Nelson, all of Jervis's flagship is HMS Victory, an ageing The commander of the Spanish fleet is Admiral Jose de Cordoba y Ramos, a He'd also gone to sea at 13, and including several scientific He's only just been appointed commander seniority rather than merit, and has no fewer Cordoba's flagship is the mighty she's the most heavily-armed warship in the world. Santisima Trinidad leads a powerful although four of these will miss the battle. Seven are classed as 'first rate' ships of Jervis has just 15 ships-of-the-line, On paper, the Spanish advantage But the number of guns isn't everything - the speed and efficiency with which Moreover, Cordoba's crews and many of his sailors are inexperienced. Both fleets are accompanied by several did not usually fight in fleet actions, At dawn, the British are They hear Spanish signal guns in the But while the British fleet sails with the Spanish have become dispersed They are now in two groups: a smaller group of five ships to and the main group to the west, commanded by On their current courses, the British As the fog lifts, the Spanish learns for the first time, that Lookouts at the mast-tops pass a steady Spanish ships sighted; twenty ships Finally, Jervis snaps. &quot;Enough, sir! The die is cast and if there are The Spanish have also spotted the north, looking to pass the British The smaller Spanish force turns north-west, The British may be outnumbered - but if and fight half the enemy at a time, As the range closes, Jervis orders his to cut between the two Spanish formations. The manoeuvre is carried out rapidly and Admiral Cordoba, however, is struggling to form turn. They continue to sail in a ragged group, The battle is joined at 11.30am, At 12.08, Jervis orders his ships to maintain contact with the main enemy force. But now the smaller Spanish force is coming up, threatening to break the British If they can pull off this manoeuvre, they'll Experienced British captains keep in tight But it is a determined attack. HMS Colossus takes heavy sail Her neighbours, Orion and The Spanish finally receive such that they abandon their attempt to get For the British, every moment now counts. Admiral Cordoba's force is getting away. and rejoin with the rest of his fleet. If the British are to prevent him, Commodore Nelson commands HMS Captain, a 74-gun In this age, it was considered crucial for the safe and effective But Nelson sees that in their current formation, Just after 1pm, he decides he On his own initiative, disregarding Admiral the order to wear ship... and heads, alone, HMS Captain is about to take on half including Cordoba's gigantic flagship, Trinidad. In these winds, it will take Nelson All the while, his ship is under It's neither fast, nor accurate, but steadily, It looks like Nelson's gambit might fail. But help is on the way. When Jervis, aboard Victory, he signals to other ships to turn in support. HMS Excellent, commanded by Captain HMS Culloden is also now close enough Several of these have now suffered heavy damage: Salvador del Mundo is effectively disabled. San Isidro has been battered. As HMS Excellent moves up she fires broadsides into them at close range. Both Spanish ships haul down their HMS Excellent's bold advance causes and she collides with San Jose. Nelson spots his chance. His own ship is crippled, but has just enough way on her to ram San Nelson leads the boarding party himself, climbing aboard San Nicolas through a After a short, sharp fight and the crew of San Nicolas surrender. They've suffered more than 200 casualties, Nelson's not finished. His men come under musket fire from San Gathering more men, Nelson launches a second boarding action from the deck of This Spanish crew, bewildered by the This extraordinary feat, of using one captured is soon dubbed, 'Nelson's patent He is presented with so many swords that he has to pass them to his coxswain to hold. Cordoba's flagship, the giant Santisima Trinidad, Her crew has suffered more than 300 casualties. Around 4pm, there are rumours but it's difficult to tell amid Before she can be secured, two undamaged Spanish The British ships are too who have begun to regroup, Jervis signals to his fleet to form up, and secure As Cordoba and his remaining fleet sail for Cadiz, Against the odds, the Battle of Cape St.Vincent Four Spanish ships-of-the-line were Around 800 Spanish sailors were killed British losses were just 73 dead, and 227 wounded. Nelson's brilliant success meant his Instead, he was knighted, becoming a Admiral Sir John Jervis was and received a generous pension and other honours. In 1801, he was appointed First Lord of the He lived to the age of 88, and is remembered Admiral Cordoba, in contrast, was disgraced. behaved with courage during the battle, but his He was dismissed from the navy and forbidden to The Battle of Cape St. Vincent But it had major strategic consequences. After their defeat, the demoralised Spanish fleet British... meaning the threat of the Spanish and And so the next year, 1798, a British squadron, commanded by Rear Admiral Nelson, He was soon in pursuit of a French fleet, In the age of Nelson, a young Englishman wondering how to make a positive difference Join the Royal Navy, smash the French! But - those were simpler times. Today, many people want to know how they and find a fulfilling career - without Our sponsor, 80,000 Hours, is here to help. 80,000 is the number of hours in an average career - 40 hours a week times That's a lot of time. It's probably your greatest opportunity to finding a career that is both fulfilling, and That's what 80,000 Hours wants to help you do. They offer free research and support to help identify a career taking on one of Such as the risks of AI; catastrophic pandemics; Even if you don't know it yet, these are areas Their information and advice is based on Oxford University academics - and Start off by visiting 80000hours.org/epichistory, to receive the 80,000 Hours' free what makes for a high-impact career... and how to build a career plan based on 80,000 Hours also hosts a job board with searchable by location, requirements Or, if you've got some ideas already, they provide There's also an 80,000 Hours podcast, featuring in-depth conversations So whether you're still working out what you want or want to help solve pressing global problems And a reminder, 80,000 Hours all their advice and services are completely free. To start planning a career that is one of the world's most pressing problems, Big thanks to Drachinifel, for expert research and For anyone with an interest in naval history, his with profiles of historic warships and expert Thank you to Royal Museums Greenwich, for kind permission to use a selection Royal Museums Greenwich comprises including the clipper ship Cutty Sark, where you can find many, fascinating objects, belonged to Nelson himself. We highly Thanks as always to the Patreon channel possible - from builders, such as To citizens like Erwin Chong, And heroes, like Michael Smith. Join their ranks by joining us on ad-free access to new videos, exclusive