In the age of antiquity, the Italian peninsula world, the immortal epicenter of a united Then, came the fall. 500 years after the collapse of Imperial authority, A grand chessboard upon which Greeks, Germans, It was in this chaotic climate that the descendants all the competition, and create one of the ages. Welcome to our video on the Norman Conquest of the Kingdom of Sicily. These long videos are very difficult to make, subscribing, it helps immensely. Or support us by heading into battle on PS5, to download the sponsor for this video, World Take up the ships the Normans wish they had, battles. Legends takes the world of warships formula that encourage swift and deadly action, a can be earned for free, and a load of content commanders and in-game events. By collaborating with other franchises, Legends but it's the mix of over four hundred 20th of the mastery: learn to use four classes customise your ships to specialise in whatever Contribute to your team and spread the burning burning wrecks they are too. But you'll need strategy as much as skill what makes World of Warships Legends so fun: as important as armor or firepower when it Overall it's a high end PVP experience for free right now. To get started, check out our link in the The year was 911, and the Vikings were at The Pagan warriors asserted their influence of Russia. One such Viking was Rollo, a Norse Warchief Valley had made him the bane of the Kingdom To stop this destruction in his realm, the Rollo land in return for protection against The warlord accepted, and his followers were In time, they would become some of the most Europe. The Normans quickly assimilated, absorbing Among the other things they adapted from the albeit with a hardy Norman flair. Fiefs in Normandy were owned primarily by sword. In a small Duchy with a growing population, their landholdings were the norm. This constant fighting maintained the intensely and this created a problem. Before long, there were more Knightly warlords was land to go around. As a result, a gradual exodus took form. Much like their seafaring pagan predecessors, abroad, seeking land, riches, and the glory Their travels would take many itinerant warriors world. In the early 11th century, the Italian Peninsula By the year 1,000 AD, Northern Italy was controlled Southern Italy, however, was a patchwork of Benevento, Salerno, and Capua were ruled by who had swept into Italy in the decades after Much like the Normans, these hardy northern of their adopted homeland, and had quickly Meanwhile, the Eastern Roman Empire clung the southernmost peninsulas of Apulia and Five hundred years prior, Emperor Justinian Empire, but Lombard invasions in the following their fingers. Further south still, the island of Sicily Once belonging to Eastern Rome, it had been 831 and 965. By the 11th century, another Arab dynasty The Normans looked upon the decentralized and saw boundless opportunity. In 1017, a group of Norman pilgrims was traveling St. Michael, their warlike holy patron. There, they were approached by Melus of Bari, Though ruled by the Byzantines, Apulia's Melus' aim was to overthrow his Greek overlords He entreated the Normans to join his cause, plunder, agreed. Melus met the Byzantines on the field of Cannae, victory 1200 years earlier. Here, the Romans annihilated the Lombard Rebels victory, and ending the rebellion. This initial defeat was only a minor setback The Byzantine commander, Basil Boioannes, - mercenaries. Impressed by their martial prowess, he was and bribed a contingent of Knights to his built Fortress Town of Troia. This was a clever gamble, for in 1022 an army south to assert control over the region, only hires. The following years saw the Normans increase of Southern Italy. They were never short of employment opportunities, and the Holy Roman Emperor constantly sought region. Consequently, the Franco-Norse Knights often any given conflict. This worked out well, as Normans on the winning allies to secure the safe release of their Of all the roaming Norman bands in Italy, warrior, Rainulf Drengot. He had fought at Cannae in 1018, before coming IV. Pandulf was a Byzantine sympathizer, so in devised by the Holy Roman Emperor, who installed stead. Luckily for Pandulf, the Norman mercenaries for they quickly intervened, and with Byzantine help their Lombard benefactor regain his throne. Emboldened by his victory, the newly reinstated Naples, where the pretender of Teano had taken The Neapolitan Duke, Sergius IV, was ill-prepared Rainulf, the commander of Pandulf's Normans, Norman dominance in Italy depended on no one the others, for only through constant warfare In 1029, the Normans promptly switched sides Capua. Grateful for his salvation, Sergius granted of Aversa and its surrounding lands. This was a thrilling development to the Northmen, in Italy finally had a land of their own. Though nominally vassals of the Duke of Naples, no one but themselves, taking advantage of allegiances whenever it profited them. Meanwhile, a new family had entered into the They were the Hautevilles, comprised of the These fighters would soon be regarded among In 1038, the Byzantines launched a military This ended in disaster, and by 1041, their opportunity to erupt into rebellion. Naturally, the perennial sellswords rode into Latin cousins. Led by William Ironarm of the Hautevilles, at the battles of Olivento and Montemaggiore. The elite Varangian guard fought in service Prince-in-Exile Harald Hardrada, but even of the Norman knights. Through typical avariciousness, the Normans back to the Lombards, they would much rather By 1047, they had conquered a sizable chunk it into the Norman County of Melfi. Their land gains became legitimized through of Salerno, and the Holy Roman Emperor, Henry see the ever-hated Byzantines humbled. Norman rule in their Italian territories was The Franco-Norse elite employed a harsh hand rebellions in both Melfi and Cosenza. Indeed, for all the mercenary work the Normans victim had always been the common people, pillaging. Resentment against the Norman presence in Among those watching the Normans' behaviour In 1051, he had acquired temporal control willingly offered himself to Papal rule for However, no sooner had the Papacy gained this by the Normans. This did not endear them to the Pope, who, with 700 German Swabian soldiers. From there, thousands flocked to his cause, Benevento, and commonfolk from almost every Piling upon this momentum were the Byzantines. Led by their Catepan Argyrus, they assembled and marched for Melfi, aiming to strike from the Norman holdings from the north. Pope had a 6-thousand-strong army under his period, and it consisted of nearly everyone last thirty years. The Normans were aware that everything they threat. Count Humphrey de Hauteville mustered up all Robert Guiscard arrived with a contingent of Rainulf, arrived with soldiers from Aversa. Altogether, they amounted to 3,000 cavalry The Normans knew that their only hope of victory the Byzantine army, so they took the initiative On the 17th of June, 1053, the Norman host of Civitate. The Franco-Norsemen arranged their army in The heavy Cavalry led by Richard Drengot were commanded a mix of horsemen and infantry on Meanwhile, Humphrey de Hauteville oversaw On the opposing side of the field stood over A line of heavy Swabian infantry extended army, while the left was comprised of a disorganized The battle did not break out immediately. Despite outnumbering the Normans two to one, of his Eastern Roman allies. Meanwhile, there was unease within the Norman serious misgivings about taking arms against To that end, they sent a delegation to the overtures for peace. This was a futile endeavor, as the Normans soldiers, who boldly demanded that they return Diplomacy continued through the night, but With each passing moment the Byzantine reinforcements were at threat of starvation. Thus, while Leo continued to stall for a time launched their attack. Richard Drengot was the first to strike. His heavy cavalry barreled down upon the Papal The disorganized hoi polloi of militias and of a highly trained, fully disciplined Norman They broke without a fight, and Richard's ease. Meanwhile, the Swabians had begun trading Humphrey. Soon, the German infantry marched up the hill engaged the Norman Knights in a fierce melee. Unlike their Italian counterparts, the Swabians For a time, they were able to hold off the Up until now, Robert Guiscard had kept his peril, he promptly rallied his command and right. Still, the Germans held their own, and it foe able to match them in martial prowess. This stalemate was broken when Richard's from the disarrayed mass of Italians they'd the center. Overwhelmed, the Swabians knew the battle Rather than surrender, they chose to die fighting Following their victory, the Norman host rode had taken refuge. Some sources claim that Leo surrendered himself while others assert that the townsfolk of Either way, the Normans took him hostage, months. When the Byzantine army heard of the Papal and retreated back home. Being good Catholics, the Normans treated an honoured guest, but this hospitality came Leo IX was forced to officially recognize to never again take up arms against them. The treaty of Melfi in 1059 ratified the Duchy with Robert "Guiscard" de Hauteville as In less than forty short years, the Normans Italy, first as pilgrims, then as mercenaries, Their foothold in this land was secured, and By the year 1060, the Normans had stabilized conquered Calabria, and seized a sizable chunk By now, Duke Robert de Hauteville had properly He and his brother Roger de Hauteville had of Norman Italy. Not content with the current extent of their restless and free spirited, Always on the soon turn their attention towards the strait across the narrow waters. By the mid-11th century, the isle of Sicily It had been the Tunisian Aghlabid dynasty later being subsumed by the Fatimid juggernaut. In 948, an independent Emirate, ruled by the [GI2] It was considered perhaps the wealthiest island warm, and its fields rich and fertile. Its capital city, Palermo, was the second-largest of 350,000 citizens. However, by 1060, not all was well on the The last Kalbid Emir had been assassinated politically into three principalities, all the whole realm. Present also was a sizable population of native and a co-religionist protector from across The Pope hoped that Guiscard would conquer Robert Guiscard the 'Duke of Sicily', Of course, Robert needed very little convincing new southern frontier and attempt the conquer The opportunity to invade Sicily came when deeply embroiled in a blood feud with his approached Roger de Hauteville in Calabria Ibn Timnah had been thoroughly crushed in to turn to the Normans for help in subduing in Southern Italy would call a profoundly hot-blooded of the Hauteville brothers, jumped In the winter of 1061, 150 mounted Norman the strait and landed in the hinterlands northwest They pillaged the rich and undefended countryside, had been raised against them. [NK7] Roger and his knights attacked Messina, walls. They retreated to their ships, only to find They bunkered on the stormy beach for three on the fourth day their ships returned, and While their first foray into Sicily had been of the riches of the Southern isle, and resolved In the spring of the next year, they levied 2,000 infantry and 450 mounted knights, led Knowing they would need to outmaneuver the before even touching Sicilian soil, they devised Robert mustered the lion's share of his the attention of the Muslim fleet. Indeed, as the forces of Ibn Hawwas gathered the Norman landing, Roger had sneakily made hundred men. They prowled the countryside undetected and Roger was dumbfounded to find that Robert's have ever expected: the city had been left The Normans seized it with barely a fight, they were caught in a pincer, fled westwards.[NK9] the Normans as liberators, and offered the The Hautevilles rested briefly before continuing Soon their Muslim ally Ibn Timnah attached deeper into the heart of the island. Much of eastern Sicily was loyal to Ibn Timnah, allies. The town of Paterno fell quickly, and the of Enna, the principal stronghold of Ibn Hawwas. Knowing they could never penetrate the castle to harass Ibn Hawwas into open battle. This worked like a charm, and despite vastly infantry proved no match for heavy Norman field. [NK10] he was overextended, and thus left the fortress Sicily while allowing most of his soldiers loot in hand. Roger, on the other hand, rode into the predominantly him as a liberator. Here he wintered, but then he learned that She was the daughter of a Franco-Norman noble, home to marry her. However, marital bliss would soon turn into Roger was incensed with his older brother's and loot won in their campaigns. The younger Hauteville demanded titles and force. Absolutely enraged by his little brother's at Mileto and laid siege to it. Roger slipped out of his capital in disguise He was pursued ardently by his older brother, managed to capture Robert and present him Roger now had a choice to make. He realized that without Robert, his political brother. In an almost comical fashion, the two siblings naturally after Roger was promised his fair A civil war had been prevented, and the conquest The situation in the southern isle had become ambushed and slain while campaigning against the Normans' only local ally. This did not deter the Hautevilles, and in while Robert remained in Apulia to put down The Norman expeditionary force arrived back Initially, the Greek Christians hailed the that the Normans were harsh overlords who the law. Roger did not pick up on the tension in the to besiege the city of Nicosia, leaving Judith The local population immediately rose up in to kidnap Judith, hoping that having her as needed to force Roger to withdraw from their The small Norman garrison left in Troina rallied melee ensued across the narrow streets. From there, the situation snowballed. Roger managed to gallop back to the city in he found that thousands of Muslims from the and flooded into Troina to aid the Christian Overwhelmed, Roger was forced to order a general Normans holed up and prepared to weather a For four months they held out within the citadel, Once again, the Normans' salvation came The Saracen soldiers guarding the perimeter warm in the frigid snows. Normally forbidden from drinking alcohol by to be quite susceptible to its intoxicating Roger soon realized he could take advantage night, led a foray beyond his makeshift barricades One by one, they subdued the Muslim outposts, Their position now secure, they engaged the and retook the city. By now, the Muslim rulers of Sicily had come had before them: The Normans were no mere existence of Islamic rule on their island. Quickly, the Saracen Princes set aside their the Norman encroachment. They looked across the Mediterranean for reinforcements, who sent a sizable army of North African Berbers the invasion. Roger was forced to return to Calabria to eaten most of the ones they had during the In the meantime, his wife Judith proved a of Troina while bands of Normans headed out By the time Roger returned to Sicily, a massive heading eastwards towards his position. It was a dire situation. Roger only had around 130 Knights and 500 He could not count for help from his older tied down fighting the Byzantines in Apulia. The Benedictine Monk Malaterra claims that While this is almost certainly hyperbole, at least several thousand. Unwilling to sustain another drawn-out siege, of 30 knights to secure Cerami, a town eight In June of 1063, the two forces clashed. The Muslim Vanguard was the first to come themselves within the walls of Cerami. The Muslims flung themselves upon the town foes. Three days later, Roger finally arrived to in time to come head to head with the bulk The vanguard regrouped and joined the main The Norman Count led a cavalry charge into Following that, he had barely enough time weight of the Muslim army crashed down upon Despite being massively outnumbered, and against heavy armour and knightly discipline being Serlo, meanwhile, had sallied out of Cerami, cavalry, and began to carve a bloody path towards his Norman comrades. As day turned to evening, Muslim morale collapsed, Malaterra claims that the Normans slew over likely an exaggeration. Nevertheless, they had won yet another highly Much like how the Battle of Civitate had cemented the Battle of Cerami established the permanence While the Normans had secured their control their conquest of all of Sicily was slowed In 1064, both Roger and Robert mustered their that control over the immensely prosperous domination over the whole Island. During the siege, their camp was thoroughly Following this, the Normans made the completely the entire campaign. The years that followed saw Sicilian expansion Robert returned to Apulia to once more put Without the aid of his brother's army, Roger was prevented from making any significant by Muslim Emirs. [NK18] once more began to turn. In 1068, Roger won a decisive victory over of Misilmeri, which forced the Muslims of The Kalbids of Palermo, led by Ibn Hawwas, North Africans Zirids that had led to their rule. As riots broke out in Palermo, Ibn Hawwas they had lost enough in Sicily, packed up Muslim Sicily was now leaderless, and deprived Its capital lay helpless to invasion. In the year 1071, Robert Guiscard capped off he finally conquered Bari, ending the Byzantine With the Southern mainland firmly in Norman could finally be rendered upon Palermo, the Indeed, the city soon fell to the combined was fully in Norman hands. The Islamic rump-state in Sicily was given conquering armies towards Naples, Amalfi, But by now, their fate was inevitable. Roger had been made the first Count of Sicily, In 1085, he conquered Syracuse, the last great In 1091, Noto, the final Islamic outpost, nearly two centuries of Muslim rule on the For the next hundred years, the borders of While the region had new masters, its people The Normans, alongside their Orthodox Greek the most culturally dynamic kingdom in the will explore in-depth at the end of this documentary, For now, the Norman conquests continue. Let us now wind back the clock by twenty years, Muslims, to yet more Pope drama, and the attempted Back in 1071, the Fox Guiscard had taken Bari, 500 years of Eastern Roman rule on the Italian With their long struggle against the Greeks for adventure, war, and booty, ravaging their and the Abruzzi, lands under the nominal suzerainty The Papacy, for the most part, had maintained Normans after Pope Leo IX had been humbled But now the Franco-Norsemen were taking coin that it could not abide. When Gregory VII became the pope 1073, he the sly fox refused, the young pope excommunicated French and Northern Italian Princelings to However, unable to gain ample support, the to the permanent presence of the pathologically At the same time, the Papacy was also embroiled with the King of the Germans to the north, the hierarchy of the church. Knowing full well that the ambitious young to settle the matter, the Pope was forced In June of 1080, Gregory VII reached an accord The old Duke pledged himself as a nominal the Pope's military aid if need be. In return, he was absolved of his excommunication, from the Papal states, provided he admitted promise to give it back someday maybe. With this new accord reached, it became evident into the brewing conflict between the Pope However, that storm was still on the horizon. With his own feud with the Pope sorted, Guiscard Adriatic sea, to the heartland of the Eastern In the late 11th century, Byzantium was a 1071 had been particularly bad for the Greeks, out of Italy, they had also suffered a crushing Manzikert, losing most of Anatolia in the Recognizing his weak position, the Emperor himself to the Normans, allowing Duke Guiscard's Franco-Norseman an annual tribute of 200 pounds This stability would not last, for in 1078 by a usurper, Nikephoros Botaneiates, severing The news reached the Norman Duke in 1080, at his Apulian court, beseeching Guiscard However, this man was most likely not the in the Constantinople Monastery of St. John. Sources conflict on whether or not this Imperial into Imperial riches, or simply a ringer working the East. The latter seems more likely, as the old fox hungry eyes for years, and the deposition needed to launch an invasion. In 1081, the gears of conquest began to turn. At the turn of the spring campaigning season, the ports of Taranto and Otranto, all the the fake Michael. Meanwhile in Constantinople, another military Nikephoros, and the ascension of the young throne. In time, Alexios would prove himself to be and the coming war between him and the old showdowns in Medieval history. Sources differ wildly on the size of the Norman 700 elite heavy knights, and 15,000 light They sailed across the Adriatic in Byzantine-style of unloading horses directly onto the shore, the deadly Norman cavalry. Guiscard sent his son, Bohemond, ahead of The vanguard captured the towns of Aulon and unable to crack the ardent citadel on the On May 21st, Guiscard arrived with the main Having established their footholds on the army then coalesced at Aulon, from where they of Dyrrhachium. This was an ancient institution on the Adriatic between the forces of Caesar and Pompey in A thousand years later, it served as the main Balkans. Situated on a long, narrow peninsula cut off it was a tough nut to crack. Nevertheless, if it was taken, the dominos the Normans to strike into the heart of Greece, itself. The Norman approach was hardly smooth: as of his fleet was lost to a storm. Thankfully, the bulk of the army had been on. On the 17th of June, the Normans had arrived camp in the ruins of an old Roman town in Meanwhile, the shrewd Emperor Alexios had Realizing his own western navy was ill-equipped upon his ally for aid: the Maritime Republic Formally a vassal of Byzantium, the Serene Empire on the rise, motivated principally However, the ambitious Normans proved a threat sea, and thus, the Doge Domenico Selvo agreed fleet of warships southwards to confront the by sea. Soon, the battle on land was joined. Guiscard's forces constructed helepoleis, them attempted to storm the north and eastern They were repeatedly repulsed by outward sorties burn down the siegecraft. For a while, the contest seemed deadlocked. This changed in late July, when the Venetians The Normans, lacking the naval acumen of their seasoned Venetian fleet. Accounts of this maritime skirmish differ it seems likely that the Venetian fleet formed as pelagolimen, and sprayed Greek fire upon of chaos and flame. It was a devastating blow to Guiscard. With his ships scattered or destroyed, the Sea, cutting off his supply lines from Italy. With no more provisions coming from Apulia, Illyria, starvation and disease had begun Meanwhile, by August, the warrior-Emperor destroy the Normans once and for all. His army was an unlikely coalition of the Armenians, Turks, Frankish mercenaries, the contingent led by their King, Constantine Most notable in the Byzantine expedition was and Anglo-Saxon warriors and the cream of All told, they amounted to anywhere between Following the old Roman road of Via Ignatia, the 15th of October, setting up his camp on of the citadel. Within Alexios' war council there were two The governor of Dyrrachium and the more experienced strategy; after all, their enemy was isolated and doing guerilla-style raids they could However, the younger, more hot-headed generals battle, predicated on honour and pride. The latter won out, so on October 17th the the lagoon, circling southwards to strike Realizing that the final battle was nigh, burned. The old fox's message to his troops was fight until the end. Under the cover of night, Guiscard moved his where he organized his army into three contingents. The left wing, led by Bohemond, the right the center, led by the old Fox himself. The two wings were composed of conscripted Norman Knights were concentrated in the center. When the sun rose on the morning of October before him. Like Guiscard, the warrior-Emperor arranged personal command of the center company. Notably however, he deployed his Varangians army lines, hoping their mastery as heavy charge. Many of the Anglo-Saxons were veterans of of their homeland by the usurper-king William, cousins in the south. The staredown came to a jarring end when Guiscard his center out to harass the Varangian vanguard, The Englishmen held firm, while the light advanced, hurling their missiles at their Meanwhile, the rest of the Norman line had On the Byzantine side of the field, the Serbians the back of the line. Their loyalty to the Greek Emperor was dubious, before joining the fight. Soon Amicetas' right division charged forward, However, the Saxons held firm, and together Alexios' center company, routed the Norman fleeing to the shore. Meanwhile, the Norman light infantry on the with the Byzantine center and right, with It is here the battle reached a critical junction. The Varangians, swelling with confidence and barreled after their fleeing foe. This bloodlust would cost them their lives, became separated from the main Byzantine lines, Guiscard wasted no time. Seeing the jugular exposed, he sent a contingent to peel off from the melee, and strike at The Saxons, exhausted, were taken completely Those who survived fled up a hill to the nearby themselves up for protection. The Normans, in a stroke of poetic irony, committing every Varangian within to a fiery The annihilation of the Varangians was a death-blow The Turks and Serbians, thus far kept in reserve, 7,000 soldiers abandoning the fight. Emperor Alexios ardently fought on with what doomed struggle. Guiscard, who had previously kept his elite charge into the Byzantine line. Whatever was left of Roman morale shattered, off the field. During his flight, Emperor Alexios was waylaid redeem their tarnished honour from being routed The Greek Emperor managed to fight them off He escaped and fled to Ohrid, where he desperately The battle of Dyrrhachium exacted a heavy The Byzantines suffered 5,000 men dead, while The siege of the fortress itself continued 1082, when an Italian citizen within the walls Guiscard to finally conquer the stubborn citadel. For Alexios, the situation was incredibly Emptying out the Imperial coffers, the desperate IV, The King of the Germans, with a plea to and ally. By doing this, he hoped Robert Guiscard would giving the Byzantines some reprieve from his Henry, for his part, was still deeply embroiled and therefore was all too happy to take Alexios' rival. Marching down the Italian Peninsula, the German of Rome. To further compound matters, Guiscards' him in his absence, no doubt spurred on by In the months following the fall of Dyrrachium, taking the city of Castoria with ease, where temporary base of Thessaloniki. In April, word of the brewing revolts in Apulia departed back home to quell the rebellion, his cunning but hitherto untested son, Bohemond who despite being bloodied, was not ready Surprisingly, Bohemonds' first course of his father had planned, but to take his troops Ioannina. On his way through Thessaly, he found his collection of peoples who existed in pockets These Aromanians, as they were also known, and corrupt bureaucracy of the Byzantine empire Normans. By the end of April, Bohemond's army had The city quickly surrendered to spare itself were infamous for. Bohemond spent the next few months fortifying Meanwhile, Alexios had retreated to Constantinople, new army despite depleted resources. The total size of this army is lost to history, force. Some time in the summer, Alexios' host had The shrewd Emperor had learned from his loss To counteract the thundering impact of a Norman chariots hidden behind a front line of infantry, The plan was to lead the Normans into believing based army, prompting them to commit to a When the enemy knights came within striking riders would rush onto their chariots, using and destroy. This however, would never come to pass. Bohemond evidently had learned of the Greeks' dividing his cavalry into two wings, charging flank to catch them in a pincer movement, Caught entirely by surprise, most of Alexios' in a brutal Melee. Ioannina remained in Norman hands. Humiliated once more, Alexios limped back remained of his levies, all the while confiscating This was deeply unpopular with the clergy, army with mercenaries. Bohemond, meanwhile, had marched his victorious he laid siege to. Just like Dyrrachium and Ioannina, Alexios that had fallen into Norman clutches. Once more, he predicted a full-frontal cavalry caltrops hidden in the tall grass ways ahead His plan was to use the traps to pierce the chaos, at which point the Byzantine light into their left and right flank. Bohemond however, was of a simpler mind. Deciding to simply use what had worked before, and right wing, barreling into the Byzantine caltrops which had only been laid before the Furthermore, Alexios' had not accounted Terrified of the Normans' who thus far had fought, the Greeks and their mercenaries either Seeing yet another battle lost, Alexios fled With Alexios' stuck licking his wounds in and advanced northeast, subduing the city marching back south to Castoria by mid-Autumn. With the weather turning bleak, the young in for the winter or continue his advance. Knowing the climate of western Macedonia to sickness spreading through his army, Bohemond fertile plains of Thessaly. To that end, the Norman knights pointed their of Larissa. If Byzantine sources are to be believed, the of Larissa on November 3rd, laying siege to world. The city defense was headed by a veteran soldier loyal to his Emperor in Constantinople. Leo defiantly held out against Bohemond for morale in the city began to plummet as the Meanwhile, Emperor Alexios, predictably, had Despite suffering crushing loss after crushing not turn his back on his dying Empire. First he resorted to diplomacy. Using the same underhanded tactics that had a way to spread whispers into the Norman camp, Three senior generals in the Norman army, and William, were accused by the rest of the Byzantines. This created a rift within Bohemond's leadership and buying Alexios some time. Meanwhile, using what remained of Byzantine Alexios managed to purchase for himself a to him by the Rum Sultan, Suleiman I. Despite it can be surmised that the Turks had a vested Latin Knights did not advance right onto their In March of 1083, Alexios began his westward the Normans. Joined by Greek levies from Thessaloniki and his army through the narrow Tempe valley, in the town of Trikala, where he began formulating With each defeat, Alexios had adapted his He knew that his troops were comparatively veteran, battle-hardened Norman knights, and the Latin enemy would result in yet another To that end, he apprehended a local Thessalian every detail of the local terrain, with the On a sunny summer's morning, sometime in appeared on the plains of Larissa's eastern Led by the generals Nicephorus Melissinus flew proudly, challenging the Normans to fight. Believing the flags to represent the main knights to mount up. With himself at the head of one squadron, they barreled down in a full frontal cavalry This time, however, would not be like the Instead of engaging in a general melee, the called Lykostomion: The Wolf's Mouth. It was here Alexios' genius finally pulled Setting his ambush into action, the Greek and peltasts to begin harassing the charging to break their pursuit. This worked like a charm, as Count Brienne at his harassers. Unfortunately for him, the Normans' heavy Turkic mounted archers, who circled around under the Latin Knights, and raining chaos Brienne made a desperate attempt to call for from Bohemonds' squadron and communication Meanwhile, Bohemond himself had broken off made a temporary camp on a small river-island of Larissa defined by marshy swamplands. According to Byzantine sources, Bohemond did having been lounging around eating grapes. Some time later, Briennes' squadron had and their ragged, wounded state alerted the he faced. The next morning, Alexios bore the full might His Turkic and Pecheneg horse-archers circled heavily armoured knights with arrows in an expose themselves. Learning from Briennes' mistake, Bohemond to remain dismounted and to form a phalanx to protect themselves from the missiles. Pinned down and trapped, it was clear that The contest was decided when a stray arrow the Normans to panic, break formation, and Finally, it was Alexios who saw the Norman's their campaign for good. Having sowed the seeds of division in the now that defeat would have shattered their and high court titles to any Norman noble Bohemond found himself unable to match Alexios' pay his soldiers for the two and a half years Fearing a total mutiny in his army, he was abandoning the lands he had taken Macedonia Roman Empire. Larissa proved to be a great victory for Alexios, He called the Venetians back into action, throughout this whole ordeal. Spurred on with the promise of trade concessions sealords took to their warships once more, Corfu, returning those territories to the The Balkan campaign was over. Despite the best efforts of the fearsome Norman of the Komnenian Emperor had won the day, destruction. Meanwhile back in Italy, Robert Guiscard had in the east, too busy dealing with the chaos He spent 15 months quelling the rebellions an army of at least 4000 to aid his spiritual For Pope Gregory, the situation was desperate. The German King Henry had more or less taken the Pope confined in the Castel Sant'Angelo. An Antipope, Clement III, had been coronated the King, and in turn had crowned Henry with Emperor. Upon hearing that Guiscard was marching to seeing no need for it. After all, he'd gotten everything he wanted. Perhaps also fearing the martial prowess of to Germany. When Guiscard arrived at the gates of Rome a liberator. Instead, to his unpleasant surprise, he found who had thrown their support behind Emperor in his castle. Naturally, the old warlord was undeterred through their defenses. The bulk of his army remained camped outside sporadically with the Romans on the walls. Meanwhile, under cover of darkness, he snuck a small, sparsely defended gate. Shrouded by night, they scaled the battlements the army, which poured into the city, taking From here, sources differ wildly on what happened Roman chroniclers bitterly claim that Guiscard's slaughtering and violating indiscriminately, simply set some buildings aflame to distract left the city. It seems most likely that the Normans ravaged hills, looting and pillaging as they had done the process. However, the damage was nowhere near what the Gauls or the Goths. Having lost most of his support, and reviled Norman sacking, Pope Gregory was forced into year later. Meanwhile, the German's Imperial Antipope, supreme pontiff. As for Guiscard, following his little side world, he set about returning to the main where he'd left off in Byzantium would end In May of 1085, while rallying his troops to disease. Frail and sickly, he passed peacefully in of one of the most successful medieval warriors The attempted Norman conquest of the Balkans Roman Empire. In his darkest hour, the shrewd and cunning and during the rest of his enlightened reign, Over the next century, his dynasty, the Komnenoi, breathing new life into a long struggling The death of the cunning fox Guiscard marked The warlord and his de Hauteville clan had they had failed to conquer the east, southern control, and neither Greeks, Germans, or Popes We will now take a break from the endless contemplate the following words: "Here lies priest of the royal, sovereign, excellent, and benign, strong for God's grace, stable Lombardy, Calabria, Sicily, and Africa." These words were originally inscribed in Arabic Sicily, a tombstone that also featured epitaphs at the crossroads of the Medieval world. Thus far in this documentary, we have covered In this part, we will see the culmination of warlike Duchies became one of the richest, Kingdoms in Medieval Europe. After Robert and Bohemond failed to conquer again came with a little event known as the Komnenos was surely surprised to see Duke 1095AD, not to destroy his Empire as he had help the Byzantines fight the Seljuk Turks. The Norman participation in the First Crusade became Prince Bohemond of the Principality Meanwhile back west, Count Roger I of Sicily, Muslims, passed away in 1101, succeeded by The young Roger II represented a new breed While his legendary father and uncle had been their fortunes as adventurer-warriors, Roger world of the Sicilian urban elite, educated Whereas old generation Normans were vikings scholar first and warrior second, perfectly that a well placed whisper here, and a timely warfare. One thing the young Count had in common with ambition. During this time, all of Norman Italy was of Apulia and Calabria, and the County of of various independently-minded Barons. While Roger II inherited the Island of Sicily part of the pie. Thus, the young Count set about unifying all Opposition to his rule was great; the various the hegemony of the house of Hauteville. Furthermore, the Papacy, who had a long history preferred their southern neighbours to remain Nevertheless, through schemes, inheritance Roger II had established total feudal control 'encouraging' Pope Honorius II to begrudgingly realm. Not content with the title of Duke, Roger title befitting him. However, one could not simply declare himself Such a title required the recognition of the the Papacy was lacking in goodwill towards Nevertheless, opportunity struck in 1130, In his wake, a power struggle consumed the Innocent II and Anacletus II. In the end, it would be Innocent II who was most of the Catholic world. This left his chief rival, the now Antipope On Christmas day of 1130, Duke Roger II became by his new friend Anacletus, whom Roger in the Church. The only problem was that by supporting a himself the enemy of pretty much the entire Enraged, Pope Innocent called the Norman King tolerant attitude towards his Muslim subjects, This was all the excuse that Roger's vassals by the Emperor of the Germans, the Byzantine Roger proved as capable a wartime leader as rebels despite their German allies and Greek In 1138 the Antipope died, but a year later and destroy a Papal army led by Innocent II, With Innocent as his hostage, Roger II secured of his realm from the proper Pope. Thus, for the first time, the Norman realm a single capable ruler. It is during the enlightened and stable reign what made Norman Sicily unique: its multiculturalism. Even before the Normans arrived, Southern where Byzantine East, Latin West, and Islamic When the French-Norsemen conquered the entire became integrated as subjects in the new Norman By the reign of King Roger, the Normans were that was predominantly made up of Lombards, mainly Arab and Berber. As a result, the cultures of Latin, Greek Let us first look at the civil administration Interestingly enough, the language of the French, but Greek- the language of the Eastern By 1115, all edicts and written documents in Greek, although Latin and Arabic were still Despite the superficially Byzantine nature of the Kingdom's inner administration was After all, the Islamic Caliphates were among in the world, and the internal administration institutions of Fatimid Egypt. So prominent was this Islamic influence that highly influential Greek-speaking nobles would the title of ammiratus ammiratorum- Emir of We cannot talk about Norman Sicily without the high culture of the middle ages. King Roger was an enthusiastic patron of the was abound with the creators of paintings, Much of which, to the great joy of historians, In terms of intellectual value, Roger was The King spoke Arabic fluently, and employed and scientists in his court. Perhaps the greatest legacy of Islamic influence fi ikhtiraq al-afaq, known in Latin as This was a comprehensive world map, put together Muhammad al-Idrisi, who was employed in King Remarkably accurate for its time, al-Idrisi's Columbus and Vasco de Gama for their great in the colonization of the New World. On top of Arabic influence, King Roger also from across the Christian world. He imported skilled masons and stone-carvers and Latin notaries from Rome. From the Greek East, he brought in mosaicists, of whom were well versed in the sophistication bring some oriental splendour to the Norman The greatest monuments to Arab-Byzantine-Latin of Sicily. In the grand city of Palermo, the Cappella Byzantine Greek mosaics superimposed over designs, all interlaced within an overall The wealthiest Kingdoms are built upon international melting pot situated in the middle of the become an international center of commerce Furthermore, the first Crusade had established coast, including the predominantly Norman world to direct trade with the Middle East. Roger II was hesitant to actively participate to benefit from the commercial opportunities Like any wise ruler, the Siculo-Norman King of commerce to members of his court who had One such man was George of Antioch, an Orthodox George was a considerably worldly man by Medieval having previously served under both the Byzantine Sometime before 1123, he entered the court him establish control over all of Southern He had immensely valuable connections within world, including with elites in Cairo, Constantinople, George soon rose to the rank of Emir of Emirs and commercial relationships throughout the brought Southern Italy to its economic apex. Overall, the economic reflowering of Sicily and strengthened its multicultural identity. The Kingdoms' major cities such as Palermo, after the brutality of the initial Norman once more. Orthodox Christian and Greek-speaking neighbourhoods and Arabic-speaking communities, while Mosques all peoples of the book worshipped freely. On Sicily's sunkissed docks, traders bringing world sold their goods, the sound of raucous the air. As much as cosmopolitan commerce was working roots. After the conquest of Sicily by his forebears, next stepping stone in the House of Hauteville's over the Mediterranean Sea. Much like Sicily, the ancient homeland of of the Roman Empire which had been incorporated explosive expansion out of Arabia. From its fertile orange groves to its bustling with natural resources and commercial potential. During its heyday in the 11th century, the the most powerful state in the western Mediterranean, overlords had seen their effective territory the city of Mahdia. Despite these setbacks, the Zirids had made themselves as a regional powerhouse of maritime in the same region a millennium prior. By the time Roger II rose to power, regular the Zirids and Norman Sicily. The two regions were natural trading partners. Sicily, having until recently been under Islamic ties to the Arabs and Berbers of the Maghreb Of course, a cultural affinity between two relationship between their respective governments. Indeed, early in Roger II's reign, the economic and the Sanhaja Berbers of the Banu Ziri began In 1118, the Zirid Emir, Ali ibn Yahya, faced the governor of Gabes, broke ties with his that ibn Yahya had imposed on Rafi's city. Roger II, still only a Duke at this point, Mahdia, deploying the Sicilian navy to help from the latter. Naturally, the Emir ibn Yahya did not take a shrewd alliance with the neighbouring Almoravid reconquista of the isle of Sicily. What followed was essentially a high-stakes In 1122, an Almoravid squadron attacked the with its women and children. Roger's retribution came a year later when to capture Mahdia. An Islamic defence corp repulsed this invasion Still, the Norman Duke could content himself which his forces had seized en route. Four years later, the warriors of the Maghreb in western Sicily and sacked the city of Syracuse. In the following years, the balance of power favour. Throughout the 1130s, Roger II, now a King, Europe: crushing his rebellious vassals in the Byzantine Empire, German Empire, and the His powerbase now secure, the Norman King to his ongoing Africa problem. On the flip side, Roger's Zirid rivals were Their alliance with the Almoravids had broken rivals like the Hammadids. In fact, in a rather cruel twist of fate, Prince who had fended off the Norman invasion but to invoke Roger's protection to ward In return for his military intervention, the privileges in Ifriqiya, effectively turning state of the Norman domain. 1135 was also the year in which the Normans the isle of Djerba. This island was a haven of lawless Berber and its freebooter crews had long been a plague King Roger deployed his Emir of Emirs, George The Greco-Armenian statesman accomplished Interestingly enough, the Christian conquest Muslim world. The ungovernable pirates had been considered who, if anything, was happy to see the Normans Of course, their tune would soon change when ambitions in the Maghreb did not end at Djerba. The next stage of the Norman conquest of Ifriqya In the early 1140s, a virulent famine afflicted widespread starvation. In this caustic cocktail of socioeconomic towns entered into open rebellion against Not only were the Zirid emirs in Mahdia essentially they had also become completely economically politically beholden to the will of the Sicilian Divine providence had provided King Roger His longtime Zirid rivals had become the sick helpless. There would never be a better time to strike. From 1142 onwards, Sicilian fleets began launching cities. In 1144, the port of Bresk was captured, in and in 1148, Gabe, Sfax and Sousse had all of Antioch. When an alarmed Zirid Emir Al-Hasan wrote nations were supposed to be allies, Roger the good Emir's ally that he was conquering against Zirid rule. This facade of a casus belli was promptly forces laid siege to the Zirid capital itself. Mahdia fell on the 22nd of June, and for two its Muslim population took refuge among the Christian community. By the end of this campaign, the Zirid Dynasty, no more, and Roger II had annexed a chunk to the borders of Tunis and from the western The conquest of Ifriqya was a great boon for The economic connections between Sicily and were now strengthened, with the major trading now part of the same Kingdom. Ultimately, the Norman rule did little to of the Maghreb. Rather than rule directly, King Roger used African domains on his behalf. The local Ifriqyan aristocracy was largely the civil government under Sicilian oversight. However, one group which saw their fortunes Christians. Indeed, even in the high middle ages, a community the Islamic expansion into the region and 500 years after the Arabs had initially conquered Needless to say, they were eager to accept overlord. As we've seen many times throughout history, as long as the reign of its strongest King. Unfortunately for Norman Sicily, this was On the 26th of February, 1154, King Roger by his son, King William I, known to his critics While this epithet was probably the result clearly not the shrewd administrator his father allowing his officials to do all the work Smelling weakness, the traditional enemies The Papacy and the Emperors of the Germans the Norman Barons of Apulia and Calabria to The Byzantines even launched a direct invasion land that had been theirs a century earlier. To everyones' surprise, King William was fend off the invading Greeks, but in the process, Caliphate. Nevertheless, there were other social problems In the latter half of the 12th century, migration of Sicily in favour of the western Catholic As a result, the multicultural tolerance shown began to erode away. By the 1160s, organized violence against Sicily's Over the following decades, an unofficial dominating the Northeast, and Muslims increasingly William I died in 1166, succeeded by his son, By all accounts, William II was a decent ruler. He mostly kept the peace in his realm, and ancestors, dabbling in the third Crusade against conquer Byzantine Greece. However, neither venture was particularly Unfortunately for William II, his entire reign mistake. During the first half of his reign, he had without siring a son, his aunt Constance would This was an issue because Constance was betrothed son of the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick. Long had the Emperors of the Germans sought Now, through a cunningly crafted marriage to seize the Sicilian throne and end Norman Sure enough, William II died with no son in war. Having no desire to be ruled by a German, de Hauteville to be their King. But Constance and Henry pressed their claim, Thus, the royal blood of the Norman house and Norman rule over Italy was formally ended. The ascension of a German dynasty ushered and an aggressive policy of Latinization. By 1282, the Muslims had all been deported, paving the way for the region to be entirely Despite this, the legacy of the Franco-Norsemen their departure. The realm they founded would persist in one from dynasty to dynasty. The direct successors of the Norman Kingdom 1871, when the entire Italian Peninsula was Yet even today, the splendor of the Churches Greeks, and Arabs lived side by side under Meanwhile, the bones of the fallen, from Naples the descendants of Vikings ruled in the heart We are planning more videos on medieval history, button. Please, consider liking, subscribing, commenting, Recently we have started releasing weekly consider joining their ranks via the link to watch these weekly videos, learn about access our private discord, and much more. This is the Kings and Generals channel, and