Thank you to Brilliant Conservation laws are among They feel as fundamental as you can get. And yet they're wrong, These laws are consequences of a much deeper,... ...more fundamental principle, Noether's Theorem. Conservation laws They make it possible to solve physics problems... ...that would otherwise be More than cheat codes, conservation laws They emerge from profound and simple truths They emerge The connection ...is encapsulated in Noether's theorem. But before we dive into this extremely elegant idea,... ...let's talk about the seeming paradox ...and the genius who discovered it. When it was published in 1915, ...opened as many questions as it answered. Among them is the fact that energy The simplest example of this As the universe expands, light traveling Its wavelength increases, Where does the energy In 1915, the expansion of the universe ...but the failure of energy conservation... ...was still clear Two of the &quot;greats&quot; of the era, ...sought the help ...to understand the seeming paradox. She discovered why the law of conservation of energy broke down in general relativity. The law was not fundamental after all. She realized that all conservation laws ...which we call Noether's theorem. A simple expression For every continuous symmetry of the universe, Let's unpack this. First, what do we mean by symmetry? Actually, first, what don't we mean? We say a face is symmetric Snowflakes are symmetric Playing cards, But these are what we call ...single flips around one axis, Noether's theorem Something is &quot;continuously symmetric&quot;... ...If it stays the same For example, ...is continuously symmetric A perfect sphere is continuously symmetric In both cases, the environment stays the same In the case of Noether's theorem, ...we mean the equations For example: moving along a perfectly flat road, We have symmetry to spatial translation, ...there's a corresponding conserved quantity. That quantity is Momentum. If two cars collide on that road,... ...the sum of their combined momentum But what if the road is hilly? Momentum doesn't appear to be conserved. It can be lost or gained This is because the direction of the gravitational field It's not symmetric to translations along the road. On the other hand,... ...the gravitational field ...doesn't change The system is symmetric to time translations. It doesn't matter when the collision happens, Noether's theorem reveals ...gives us energy conservation. And the last classic example: ... ...if the factors driving the laws of motion ...for example, ...experienced by a satellite orbiting the Earth,... ...then, Noether's theorem predicts ...Angular momentum. By revealing the underlying source ...Noether's theorem handily explains That includes the apparent breaking See, Einstein's description of gravity ...to be dynamic and changeable. If the very nature of space ...then, continuous time symmetry is broken. That's the case with the expanding universe. Energy can be lost, ...and it can be created from nowhere, The law of conservation of energy ...in which space and time ...but in Einstein's universe, energy conservation It only applies for parts of the universe ...as unchanging over time. However, it's possible ...to come up with an analogous quantity That quantity is the rather esoteric It &quot;saves&quot; energy conservation, ...the entire universe's ...to offset the seeming gains or losses This quantity is, however, controversial, It's also worth an entire episode, Despite its profound implications,... ...the math behind Noether's theorem It falls like magic ...the Principle of Least Action,... ...which states that the universe will always &quot;choose&quot; ...that minimizes the change in the action. This is a rather abstract quantity,... ...that measures the effort ...over some time interval. It's a generalization of Fermat's principle,... ...which states that light ...that minimizes the travel time. The Principle of Least Action ...to any object moving on any path, ...quantum-mechanical to cosmological, The Principle of Least Action ...from the equations of classical mechanics... ...to Feynman's &quot;path integral&quot; formulation In a sense, the principle is axiomatic. It's a founding assumption ...and it's also the founding assumption However, as a founding assumption,... ...that is as close to as fundamental as we can get. Noether's theorem allows us to figure out... ...the true conserved quantities ...according to the principle of least action,... ...as long as we can identify This is useful in cosmology, The general nature of the theorem ...to, not just the symmetries ...but also to more abstract coordinates. For example: another conserved quantity Noether's theorem tells us that there should be And, there is. That symmetry is the phase of the quantum field. You can rotate the complex phase of an oscillation ...and the observable properties of that field, This symmetry leads to the conservation of electric charge and electric current. This quantum symmetry ...of a large number of symmetries ...the so-called &quot;Gauge Symmetries&quot;. They predict a rich family of conserved charges... ...that govern the interactions For example: the color charge ...describes the strong interaction The entire standard model of particle physics It's founded on the fundamental It's going to take a few episodes to explain ...and how they lead to the family of particles ...and we'll jump into that before too long. Emmy Noether was one of the greatest mathematicians of the Golden Age of modern physics,... ...yet she gained ...and is still only known During her life, she was repeatedly refused any paid academic position, due to her gender,... ...until late in her career. Hermann Weyl, also a giant in the mathematical foundation of quantum mechanics,... ...said, in her memorial address: ... &quot;I was ashamed to occupy &quot;...beside her, whom I knew to be my superior Einstein also called her a genius. Her contributions to mathematics, particularly Let's be thankful that she took a moment ...taking us a big step closer to understanding ...through the continuous symmetries of space-time. Thank you to Brilliant for supporting PBS Digital Studios. Brilliant is a math and science learning site... ...that encourages members If you want to learn more about Brilliant,... ...you can go to: As always, thanks to all of our Patreon supporters And this week, an extra huge shout out Fabrice, your continuously time-symmetric contributions are fundamental to the conservation of space-time. So, thank you. Last week we talked about the incredible You guys had a ton to say. Super User asks how Gaia compares to So the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope It does have some overlap with Gaia, ...so changes in brightness over time But Gaia is really optimized Phenomenally accurate position data LSST won't do as well in that regard,... ...in part because it's on the ground, But LSST will see It has a 35 square meter collecting area, It'll find more small solar system objects,... ...detect the effects ...and see more distant supernovae,... ...monitoring more distant quasars for their flickering. In general, it'll do better ...by scanning the entire sky every few nights,... ...and it'll keep coming back, ...to measure change in brightnesses Simon Clarkstone asks ...surely its camera doesn't have pixels this small. It's good insight, Simon. Gaia's precision is +- 0.3 mili-arc-seconds. As we mentioned, Yet, its pixels are only 60 milli-arc-seconds It can do better than that, off the bat, ...spreads into neighboring pixels, But its extreme precision is possible ...many times over the five years of its operation. Each time stars will have moved slightly,... ...but they'll have moved By feeding the laws of motion ...there's only a very narrow trajectory Nebularium asks whether &quot;white dwarfs&quot; ...rather than &quot;white dwarves&quot;, with a V. Well, to quote Tolkien's ...in English, the only correct plural of dwarf is dwarfs, In this story, dwarves and dwarvish are used, ...to whom Thorin Oakenshield You could also check appendix F Seriously, people, on SpaceTime... ...we only ask that you start ...and the etymological foundations Please do your assigned readings.