The sombre hummingbird, a tiny bird from Brazil, of any animal we know of. If your body was that temperature, you'd just die. A human with the metabolism of a hummingbird day to survive. That's because staying warm by making your And that brings up a paradox, because creating The largest animals on Earth have to spend their heat engines running. Most animals on earth just use the heat outside It's easier. If you ate like a crocodile, whose body temperature eat less than 50 meals a year. And that works just fine for Crocodiles. So that got me thinking, If making our own why do we do it? [MUSIC] Hey smart people, Joe here. Every organism on Earth, from the smallest molecules into simple ones to harness the And using energy to move bodies and run the Endothermic creatures are special because body temperature above their environment. We humans are endothermic. What you might call "warm blooded." But it's more accurate to say that we create And we're also something else, homeothermic. We regulate that heat at a steady temperature. For most of us, that's between 97 and 99 Most animals aren't this way. Endothermy is only found in mammals, birds, Most animals are ectothermic, they don't than their environment. And just like you have to constantly feed to shovel fuel to our own heat making machinery. And that means food. A LOT of food. Most of the energy from what we eat is released intake is dedicated just for regulating your You might not realize it, but you think about Or at least, that happens deep in the core So deep that you aren't aware of the processes Your body's thermostat lives here. The hypothalamus. If your body temperature goes down by just Your heart loses its normal pumping rhythm. Which is pretty bad news for staying alive. So our bodies work hard to stay warm from temperature range. If you're too cold, your body does things You stop sweating. Your blood vessels constrict to keep heat and you get the goosebumps. Which might not seem that helpful now, but air in our furry insulating layer. But if our bodies get too far above their this egg. Heat unwinds the very structure of proteins So if you're too hot, your hypothalamus all those little hairs lay flat. And you start sweating, drawing heat from blowing on hot soup cools it off. Your body is constantly turning these cooling temperature steady. Most animals that make their own body heat but the ideal temperature for that thermostat Compared to other endotherms, I'm pretty Just sayin. What I mean is that human body temperature The hottest 20 percent of endothermic mammals birds are even hotter. They typically run between 40C and 44.4C. And warmer animals have to eat more. A 10 degree Celsius increase in body temperature When heat is added to a body, it speeds up It's like pouring more water over a water Everything made of molecules speeds up and Carbs, proteins, and fats are used up faster, So you HAVE to eat to replenish that molecular For us that means more trips to the fridge, for its own food, that means spending even In the eye of evolution, keeping a body warm So there must be a good reason to do it. Why do we go through so much effort just to Why do most reptiles, amphibians, fish, and energy to be alive? That story goes back about 315 million years. And like a game of blindfolded hide and seek, warmer. At first, all four legged vertebrates were according to their surroundings. And the first step to changing that was a When amphibians first wiggled their way out The move to land brought new challenges. Near the end of an era called the carboniferous, We call it "the great drying." Water got locked up in glaciers, the forests And drier habitats popped up in their place. To survive in this drier world, animals had Things like holding your body up without the drying out under the hot sun. These all required higher metabolism. This is also when we think animals first started out of the plants and prey they consumed. If you run your tongue on the top of your the path to warm bloodedness. The secondary palate. It's what separates the nasal cavity from What does that have to do with being warm Unlike early amphibians and reptiles, you Meaning you can breathe and eat at the same The secondary palate opened up more time for you did it. Here in the Permian, we also start to see And moving around on two legs turns out to The big muscles required for bipedal motion your body's engine that high, you need to So if I didn't make my own heat, I couldn't At least not for long. No animal exists on earth today that can run 30 C. Cooler muscles just can't move as There's only one modern reptile that can and it's a sprinter than a marathon runner. Then, about 252 million years ago, Earth experienced The Great Dying. About 70% of the species on land went extinct methane into the atmosphere. Temperatures skyrocketed, and oxygen plummeted. The animals that survived and took over afterward And in large part, that meant animals with We used to think dinosaurs were more like to be basking on rocks in the sun, but we birds and mammals. They grew fast, and moved in ways that suggest Some large dinosaurs might have handled that Think about it: A swimming pool isn't going So the largest ancient reptiles could have warmblooded. Consider that the Komodo dragon, the largest relatively constant body temperature compared But it's harder for smaller animals to stay have to work harder, pound for pound, than Which is why we think full endothermy or warm-bloodedness And that happened, because this happened. [BOOM] About 66 million years ago, the sky basically Most big animals died, because they couldn't cover, and got roasted. Small animals were more likely to survive, own heat. Animals like shrewdinger. Yeah. This is our best guess at what the first placental Shrewdinger was small, about the size of a And the bird line of dinosaurs made it too, Over time, they got faster, better at running, And flying takes a lot of energy too, so being We tend to think of endothermic and exothermic one or the other. But we're discovering new exceptions all Some sharks can maintain a body temperature So can other fish like the opah. The tuna can too. And the hedgehog tenrec, an adorable little ectothermic or cold-blooded when it's not Their temperatures can plummet to -2 C without So warm and cold blooded is a spectrum, not But this still doesn't solve our paradox. Being endothermic is a lot of work. So much work that many endothermic species this engine of heat and survive. You would think that evolution would have direction. But it hasn't. Some of the answer might just come down to When a big rock fell from the sky in the last that apocalypse just happened to be the things Those species were able to take over the Earth left. But even though creating our own heat is incredibly Without it, well, we might not be able to Earth. And though cooler bodies might not get sick germ incubators, getting sick would be more during a fever is a key part of our immune We also couldn't move around as much, and And some scientists think if we weren't energy to raise and nurture our young. I mean, crocodiles aren't winning any parent So being this hot is hard work. And to be honest, exactly how the history still a lot more we need to learn to answer Evolution doesn't have a destination, it's It's a good reminder that there's still Stay curious. You know what feeds the fire of this highly Patreon. Thank you to everyone who supports the show We couldn't do it without your support, if the link down in the description, and we'll