I'm here because of a letter A letter from the future. This is it. It's a predictive genetic test report. And it's at the heart when my life forked in two. Before I tell you about that, I want to show you two moments This is moment number one. I'm marrying this guy, Eric, And he gets up there to give his speech and he's holding my diary And he starts reading from it, &quot;Did she know he was going to do this?&quot; Guys, if you're watching, I knew. OK, this is me and my mom. You can see how she's laughing (Laughter) She's 51 years old I wish I could stay here with you. But now I have to take you It's only six months later, and suddenly there's and my mom is being sucked through it. No one can tell us what's wrong, And it is snowballing. She's confused about who she is, where she is. She's scared. She's hallucinating. She is too weak to walk. This is happening on a timescale of weeks. I'm looking into her eyes, and I am begging her to come back, That summer, she goes into the hospital, By the time she dies, it has been months We don't get a present tense goodbye. Dementia has robbed us of that. And we still have no idea what happened. And then we get the results And this is where we reach The report tells us that my mom And that I am at 50-50 risk of having inherited the single-letter Prion disease kills But most cases aren't genetic. They're random. So it's maybe 1 in 50,000 people that has a high-risk mutation I stand at this fork And sometimes in life you know yourself. We realize there is no fork. We want to know. I'm trained as a lawyer. We are not biomedical people, but we know that for us, I can't control what happens next, but I can control And my choice is yes. So I get tested, and we learn (Sighs) What does this mean for me? For us? Genetic prion disease is always fatal. We can't say when it will strike, only that it will be and once it does, you die in months. We have just watched it happen. There's so much I want to tell you but the main thing to say is that it's not like to remake our lives overnight. It's not that dramatic. It's more plantlike. We're in the dark, and we find ourselves And unexpectedly the light is coming from the science of prion disease. Understanding what is known, we are drawn to it. And this is really humble at first, like we're reading Wikipedia pages and the momentum is powerful and strange. We invite scientist friends over and we sign up for night classes, and we leave our careers And we go back to school to get our PhDs And today, we're leading this lab at the Broad Institute devoted to developing a therapy (Applause) Thank you. That's our life. And -- Leading this life has certain liabilities. Like ... things can get macabre And if you click on &quot;obituary,&quot; dang. Bottom line, rumors of my death (Laughter) OK, but let's talk and what we need to do about it. Prion disease is unique in all of biology. The causal pathogen isn't a virus, It's this one normal protein called PrP And it's normally not a problem, And when it does, it changes shape. And then it goes around and it corrupts those. And this spreads through your brain Until recently, this was a process But now, thanks to state-of-the-art we can observe it directly. Shown here at TED for the first time, I am so pleased to present to you (Laughter) They like the joke. OK. I swear I have a point, though. When you look at the biology where do your eyes go? They go to the train wreck. Right? Look at those scary rogue proteins. And if we think about we might think, go get those bad guys. Pew, pew! Yeah. Like that. But Eric and I have come to see What if we can do the most good not by going after the big scary pathogens and lobbing fireballs at them, but instead by doing something and less sexy and less conventional. What if what we really need to do is this? Long before disease begins, we use a drug to ask to please go away. We're lucky to have that indicate you can live So we're scouring the globe And brilliant ideas are an awesome start, but they also have to be wrangleable that stay in the body and are safe and manufacturable and -- get to the cells we need to reach. It's a complicated search. But I do just want to assure you, because I see you twitching, I promise we most definitely OK. (Laughter) So you take the molecule, right? And then we deploy it Why get hung up on timing? Because your brain isn't any other organ. Your brain is what makes you you. Our greatest good isn't a drug mid-train wreck, one foot in the void. Where we have letters where what's at stake we have to aim higher. We have to prevent. Come to find out, Clinical trials are basically always done This is what's comfortable. But we all know and you walk into the ER at that moment and they give you a statin, it won't help. Prevention and treatment And some of us don't have the luxury I see this paradox For sure, we are being summoned We know so much more about the brain than we did even a few years ago. We know so much about prion disease. Not everything, but we have that we can stand on them We have to be the people to say It's time to dare greatly. And ... equally ... we have to respect of everything we don't know We have to heed the call The hutzpah and the humility. Our quest requires So what is daily life like A decade ago, if you had asked me, &quot;Sonia, what's the holy grail I would have said We need the structure of the molecule. But what if finding It turns out to meaningfully test especially for rare disease you need more, you need a lot more. And if you're us, you need to be because you are racing So before our eyes, to this. It's a lot. (Laughs) And maybe you're wondering Here's what I can say. There will be the race to the first drug We're far from the end of this quest, We don't have any guarantees. Darn. But what we do have, and gosh, are we lucky to have it, is jeopardy! There's more to say about what it's like but as far as I can tell, at least, and so I think on some level, you know. Recently, I told a friend and he gets all surprised. He's like, &quot;Even with the mutation?&quot; And my mind was kind of blown There's no version of my life and hold the rest constant. On the one hand, I got dealt a bad card. And don't get me wrong, At the same time, this bad card has launched me And the wonder of this exact life is that I am constantly including versions of Eric and me, that I wouldn't have (Sighs) Does everything happen for a reason? I don't know, guys. Probably not. And yet here we all are out of the darndest raw materials. It is not such a bad thing Speaking of grace, I want you to meet these guys. These are our kids. Daruka is the big one, We had them through IVF to avoid passing on my mutation. The slogan says it all. (Laughter) My mom never got to meet these kids, and she would have been But if she had, we wouldn't have known to avoid passing it on. So somewhere wrapped up is this other thing, I'm walking alongside these kids And you know how it is with kids. Sometimes the shape of the future X number of years until Y. This parade of milestones. But here again is a luxury And perhaps, in ways large and small, it's a luxury none of us have. What would it mean What if our lives, our lives together, are best lived not as prose, I'm still living into this question, Folks, thank you and wish us luck. We need it. (Applause) Chris Anderson: That's, um -- That's extraordinary. I've got a question. This is a rare disease, but it feels as if is going to end up Are you already seeing signs of that? Sonia Vallabh: And this is how it goes And I see it on many levels. And, you know, the thing Here we are with this disease You develop symptoms, and then you die And what's happening? Irreplaceable neurons are dying So I think we have a case, you know, here is a monogenic disease, We know what we have to do. I think we have a strong case and we have the tools to do it. But this is not the only disease I just think we are in a position CA: The idea that there are that may be subject to a disease, and that it may be that and figure out how to live that that could be applied Absolutely. It's an extraordinary idea. Thank you so much for coming. Thank you. (Applause)