Let's go through how to set up an OpenVPN client on a GL.iNet router. Most GL.iNet routers support setting up an OpenVPN client connection. If you aren't sure whether your GL.iNet router can do so, contact our Support Team in the description link below. Before you start, you'll need an active subscription with a VPN service provider that supports the OpenVPN manual configuration. GL.iNet is compatible with over 30 VPN service providers. To find them, visit gl-inet.com/solutions/vpn or go to the link in the description below. There are two methods you can use to set up an OpenVPN client -- the GL.iNet mobile app or the router admin panel. To set up an OpenVPN client using the GL.iNet mobile app, search for the glinet app on your device's app store and download the app. In the app, complete the basic setup and connect it to your router. Once you're on the main app screen, tap "VPN on router," then tap "OpenVPN." If you're using NordVPN, follow these steps. If you're using other VPN service providers, you can jump right to the next section. To proceed, tap "NordVPN." You'll need to enter your service credentials, which you can find in your NordVPN account dashboard. Open a web browser and go to my.nordaccount.com. Tap "Log in to Nord account" Tap "Log in to Nord account" and sign in to your account. Tap the hamburger menu, then tap "NordVPN." Scroll down to "Manual setup" and tap "Set up NordVPN manually." Enter the verification code sent to your email. You'll see your service credentials. Copy the service credentials and paste them into the fields on the GL.iNet app screen, then tap "Done." Finally, tap the VPN location you want to connect to. If you are using other VPN service providers, tap "OpenVPN." You'll need to obtain your service credentials and download the configuration file from your VPN account dashboard. To learn how to find the service credentials provided by your VPN server provider, follow the description link below. We'll also use one of the VPN providers, ExpressVPN, as an example. Open a web browser and go to expressvpn.com/sign-in. Enter your email and password, then tap "Sign In." Enter the verification code sent to your email, then tap "Continue." In the account dashboard, tap "More." Scroll down and tap "Manual Configuration." Scroll down to see your service credentials and download the configuration file. Go back to the GL.iNet mobile app screen. Tap "Add Configurations." Select the configuration file you downloaded earlier. Next, copy the OpenVPN credentials from your VPN account dashboard and paste them into the fields. Finally, tap "Done." To check if you're connected to the VPN successfully, look up your IP address location online. If it matches the VPN location you connected to, your connection is successful, and you've completed the setup! To set up an OpenVPN client through the router admin panel, enter 192.168.8.1 in a web browser. Enter your password, then click "Login." In the left sidebar, click "VPN," then click "OpenVPN Client." If you're using NordVPN, follow these steps along. If you're using other VPN service providers, you can jump right to the next section. To proceed, click "NordVPN." You'll need to enter your service credentials, which you can find in your NordVPN account dashboard. Go to my.nordaccount.com and click "Log in to Nord account." Sign in to your account. In the left sidebar, click "NordVPN." Scroll down to "Manual setup" and click "Set up NordVPN manually." Enter the verification code sent to your email. You'll see your service credentials. Copy the service credentials and paste them into the fields in the router admin panel, then click "Save and Continue." In the prompt, select the location you want to connect to. You can add more than one location. Next, click "Apply." You'll see a list of VPN servers for the locations you selected. Click the three-dot icon for the VPN server you want to use, then click "Start." You'll see a green dot appear next to the server location. If you are using other VPN service providers, click "Add Manually" and enter the name of your VPN service provider. In this video, we'll be using one of the VPN providers, ExpressVPN, as an example. Click the check icon. You'll need to obtain your service credentials and download the configuration file from your VPN account dashboard. To learn how to find the service credentials provided by your VPN service provider, follow the description link below. As we're using ExpressVPN as an example, go to expressvpn.com/sign-in. Enter your email and password, then click "Sign In." Enter the verification code sent to your email, then click "Continue." In the account dashboard, click "More." Scroll down and click "Manual Configuration." Scroll down to see your service credentials and download the configuration file. Go back to the router admin panel. Select the configuration file you downloaded earlier. Next, copy the OpenVPN credentials from your VPN account dashboard and paste them into the fields. Click "Apply." After that, click the three-dot icon next to the VPN server, then click "Start." You'll see a green dot appear next to the server location. To check if you're connected to the VPN successfully, look up your IP address location online. If it matches the VPN location you connected to, your connection is successful, and you've completed the setup! Prefer to read the step-by-step guide on our website? Follow the link in the description below. GL.iNet offers a full range of routers supporting OpenVPN and WireGuard, so be sure to check them out in the description below. If you have any questions, reach out to our Support Team by email.