Today I'd like to talk about 8 little can make your life better. and can have a big impact. All of them are habits that can be easily this video until the end. You might think, &quot;What? Why? That's gross&quot; Yeah, I know. But actually, in Japan, it is said that cleaning life successful. In fact, many achievers in Japan have a habit For example, Takeshi Kitano, film director and comedian. They all said that cleaning toilets was really So, why is this habit so important to them?? There are three main reasons for that. 1. Luck (especially in terms of money) In the world of feng shui, there is a belief If you are willing to clean the toilet often, also be cleaned, purified, and this could Also, in Japan, there is a toilet god named There is an interesting study in this regard. According to a survey by Lion Corporation, a house with a clean toilet and a house with aged 20-39) Funny, isn't it? They also found that householders who clean sociable. Maybe that's why they are more 2. Humble yourself People also say that if you keep cleaning Shuzaburo Kagiyama, the founder of Yellow When he founded the company at the age of by himself, and since then he has continued I think he is the actual god of toilets. Anyway, he said, "I have seen thousands of people cleaning humble when they clean the toilet. And your 3. Organize your room This is something I've been thinking about The reason is because toilets are typically then you will notice small stains when you In other words, you'll become able to be aware You'll then start to be more aware of garbage start organizing more,so your room will be I usually clean the toilet every morning. If I clean it in the morning, it will feel fresh in the morning. At first, you may think that you don't like it really feels good, you may notice the way recommend it. 2 Organize your shoes &quot;When you take off your shoes, you have to This is a habit my mother has been nagging What are the benefits of putting shoes nicely? Look at this video, In my sharehouse, if shoes But, if it's organized well, it looks like What do you think? You may think when you saw the organized one, I think putting your shoes together nicely That's why I always do this and think &quot;Alright! keeping these small habits are also connected Just between you and me, I sometimes put my do this too much, they'll get annoyed, so 3 Improve your posture As an ancient Japanese way of thinking, there posture of the body would also correct the That's why Japanese people in the old days Or rather, I can't help but be aware of When you're wearing a kimono, the obi belt will naturally improve it. Unfortunately, many Japanese today overuse That happens to me too. That's why I try to wear a kimono as much 4itadakimasu [(Itadakimasu)] If you've watched Japanese anime, I'm sure Japanese people always say it before eating. Translated into English, it means "Thank deep meanings. First, I would like to thank all the people We express our gratitude to everyone who was prepared the food, those who served the food, The second is gratitude for life. well as vegetables and fruits, have life. Then thinking like As for food, I honestly don't mind eating we must never forget to be thankful for all 5 Put the chair back after using it Do you know Shohei Otani who is a famous major There was a great response to an act he did back neatly. Not everyone does it, but many Japanese put it. This is because Japanese people are accustomed (Sometimes we get tired of thinking too much For example, if you put the chair back on cleaning staff. If you put the chair back thankful. It's really a small thing, but if you can :) 6Wo Wei Zu Zhi [(Ware tada taruwo shiru)] This is my favorite Zen word. this spirit within them without exception. Wo means I. Zu means what is enough. in short, &quot;Knowing that you are content, will bring This is what it means. In my own words, If you look at what you don't have, you will you look at something you already have, you Ah,It's hard to hear this sometimes... For example, you may feel unhappy because or if you don't have a healthy body. But at least you have eyes to watch this video smartphones and computers that can watch my Maybe you are sick right now, but there is right now. There must be people around you who will support Instead of looking at what you don't have, what you have now. Having said that, I also sometimes look at of what I have now as much as possible. I am still working on it, so let's grow together! 7 okagesama[(Okagesama)] &quot;How are you?&quot; We sometimes have this conversation in Japan. okageYang is a phrase unique to Japan that If I had to, it would probably mean means Thanks to you or because of you However, it has a deeper meaning. If I say okagesama, this means not only but also friends around me, even people you've so, &quot;okageYang de, I'm fine&quot; means something &quot;I'm good&quot; because there are many people who &quot;Okagesama&quot; is a magic phrase that can make So please try using it. How are you? 8 Going to bed early and waking up early This is what all Japanese have been told by And this is a really simple habit but it affects You already know that, right? In today's busy Japanese society, there may However, Japanese have long valued this habit Because the Japanese people in the past worshiped They always started a day with worshiping &quot;Thank you for always looking over us&quot; When I first learned about it, I thought it Just imagine, in the morning, bathing your warms your body up gradually and makes you So I wake up at 5am every morning. (I'm trying And I try to soaked in the fresh morning sun Now, do you have any similar customs in your Of course, these are the little habits that I think it depends on the country and the to incorporate it into your life, You can Lastly, I'll give you advice when you want Start small steps and keep saying everyday over time, it will become your habit and your I'm not perfect either, but I'm trying to Thank you for always watching my channel. You are the reason I can make videos on Youtube. okagesamade. Thank you so matcha.