(horn blaring) the exciting launch of Windows 11, Luke and I are challenging each other to ditch Windows altogether and replace our Windows And if either of us caves, they have to dye their hair in red, green, blue, and Easy, you might say, but I'm not talking that are basically just and web browsing. I'm talking about our personal rigs, the ones we both use on a daily Has Linux gotten to the point where it's user-friendly enough that any tech nerd can pick it up and run? Is game compatibility gonna Will any of my other Who would sponsor this madness? Instantly see your current detect malware, and on your PC or Android Use offer code Linus and get 25% off glassware (upbeat music) Embarrassingly, I have never actually to daily drive Linux, and one of the reasons for that is the utterly paralyzing number before you even get started. Now, I could just call or even use internal resources to make these decisions for me. But the point of this challenge is that, Luke and I should be using that anyone else would have. And with that in mind, I would forgive the average gamer for making it as far as for best Linux distro for gaming and bailing on the entire deal. I mean, nothing against I did pick up some really but it is full of jargon couldn't possibly be expected to know, not to mention seemingly How is it that Ubuntu easy to use and beginner-friendly Another big one is that major selling point for Linux, and fair enough if that's your thing, but speaking on behalf of normies, I don't want a dozen novel I want one fast, easy one. I mean, it's horrible when Microsoft scatter system settings all over the place. I think we all agree on that. And so we should all agree that it's horrible when I mean, (sighing) I'm the kind of person who doesn't even rename because it makes it a nightmare to look anything up if I get stuck. And there are a ton of other red flags. Let's move on to hit number two here. This time from TechRadar. Supports several controllers, should not be a selling point It seems to imply that and included games are not the reason that anyone chooses an operating system. How, how are these Furthermore, the messaging around what stand out compared to the other ones gets really muddy in some places. Like the way that these it sounds like, if I choose the one with I'm gonna be giving up kernel Or that if I want broad hardware support, that could cost me the But the truth is that, With a bit of elbow grease, the gaming centric features could be applied to another, but with some exceptions. The Pantheon User Interface, for example, is specific to elementary OS. And for a more gaming related example, TechRadar mentions a feature of gamer OS, now called ChimeraOS, that sounds super cool. It allows you to easily install and even ROMs for a wide Except that if I wanted an OS that doesn't support multitasking, I would invent myself a time machine so that I could go back and use it. But wait. Hold on. The Chimera App can be used There's even a guide. But unless I wanna really I better stick with something like Manjaro or Garuda. Not that that's gonna be my final answer. In spite of its spectacularly stupid name, Pop!_OS topped just about and legitimately has some like demystifying the of getting my Nvidia GPU working properly and making installing the apps and tools that I'm gonna need to a one-click affair with the Pop Shop. If it was 10 years ago and I Manjaro's bleeding edge approach, please forgive the occasional screw up, definitely calls to me, and did I mention it's But I wanna win this thing without pulling my hair out for a month, and Pop!_OS looks like a It's Ubuntu-based, so if I really want to get under the hood, that's totally an option. But the challenge here is, play games, not get your PhD in Linux smart-assery. - I, on the other hand, decided to go with the Linux Mint with the Cinnamon As for how I think that's gonna go, honestly, I'm pretty confident. I've used Mint before. I daily drove Ubuntu, for about two years back in school. So I'm not scared of figuring out how to install a GPU driver I'm comfortable getting but that doesn't mean of you (chuckles). I'm pretty technical and I but hardcore Linux Chads You scare me, (chuckling) and I really because I still want you to - Got my drive ready and Windows couldn't possibly have picked a more bug the crap out. It's like it knows what's gonna happen. (mouse clicking) (mouse clicking repeatedly) Obviously, I'm not a hundred So my plan is to remove my It's not a GEN4 Drive or anything, but I'm not expecting that to matter. I mean, what am I gonna be doing? Running direct storage? Huh! Got them. - [Luke] Okay. So this is what happened last time. My desktop kind of... You can see where the, where but it keeps going and my So I'm gonna right click Nothing shows up, but, there's the menu. If I try the mouse over But if I move my mouse there it is. (laughing) Found it. Okay. So my mouse has to be right there. I was gonna see if I can do an easy fix of just turning off my monitor here. To be fair, it is not installed yet. This is a live boot environment. Let's see if it comes back Display Port: No Signal. Okay. - I was worried that my I use Thunderbolt to connect was gonna cause problems because there's no drivers So I hooked up my monitor that's but. Tantatatatantaa Hey, there it is just like that. My mouse, he no move. Oh, wait. Where did it go? Oh, I thought... Oh, wow. Oh, the sensitivity is just so high that I couldn't tell it was there. Okay then. Yep. That's the one. Here we go. Full Name. Ah, yes. - [Luke] Just a quick restart and turned the side monitor off. And it's fixed to the bounds of the screen and the mouse problem is solved. So just installing directly So I do want the Multimedia codecs. It's nice that Mint comes with those. Not every district does. I haven't decided which drive So I'm not entirely sure where it's installing these media codecs, but it's doing something. Okay. Finished the install. It wants me to remove my flash drive. Got it. And then press enter. This is our first login and we're there. Check video drivers. I knew I was gonna run into that. Installing Mint instead of Pop_OS. But that is a challenge I It should be okay, but we'll see later. I'm gonna go through this Welcome Manager. - [Linus] First order of business is to get our mouse speed down from over 9,000 to That seems more like it. Also, why the hell is this on by default? No obvious indication that any of my hardware Even my Aquantia network I knew audio was gonna be a challenge because I don't think the Oh, this is interesting. Output. Hello? Okay. It appears to be taking which is my mic over here presumably and turning it into output. Blah, blah, blah. Yep. That's definitely it. Does this work at least? - Front left. Front Right. Well I've got the sound at least. I was looking for a simple way to just list all the hardware so that I could verify if Linux, apparently doesn't but I can just install this Not exactly a hardware info substitute, but it's a lot better than nothing. Of course, I don't wanna on any of this for now because the goal today for get it installed, and run a game. I will definitely need Steam. Failed to install &quot;Steam&quot;. WARNING: You are trying to remove the following essential packages. What are you, what are you talking about? I've done nothing with this, other than install that Hardinfo thing. It's hilarious. The last time I tried to I ran into this exact same thing. I was told, &quot;It's super No, you do not. This is stupid. Apparently this is the solution and I have to type, &quot;Yes. Do as I say,&quot; in order to install it. And maybe it will install and launch now. What is the point of having a... Oops. Hello? My computer just hard reset. (laughing) What? I mean, to be clear, I've seen some broken Windows This is... He's dead, Jim. - [Luke] Okay. So we've got the Nouveau, or open-source driver. Fantastic. Happy they made that. But we are going to try to move to the proprietary Nvidia 470 driver. Install done. Just need to restart. A few more errors than last time, but I think we're still good. Genuinely think this is fine. Yeah, nice. Okay. Now Linux Mint also has an Update Manager, a new version Update Manager is available. Apply the update. It updates, and then it finds all the - Pressing the reset button on allow it to come back to life. Let's try and all the Not that I think that from the reset button. Man, if I manage to completely break that might be a new personal best for me. My machine is not even posting now. I have plugged the HDMI Let's see what happens. Hello? (laughing) Hey, there we go. Okay. So that's back. That's not. My phone battery is only like 6%, but I'm afraid to turn the camera off now because this ride has Pretty low... Oh! Hey, there we go. Hello? Oh. Oh. Wait, what? Did I manage to completely Like my gooey. How? Just logged in and this is what I got. Ubuntu comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY. I can see why. This was a terrible experience. And I think that's where I'm gonna have to leave it for tonight saying, &quot;Hey, yeah, I had this problem. This was not easily solvable. I don't think I'm going I mean, that was... You guys were there for the whole thing. That was utterly ridiculous. - [Luke] Continuing to install updates. I have turned on my side monitor. One minor issue. I can't go over there with my mouse because my mouse has to go, all the way left and then it's over there. So I need to reconfigure the desktops. Right click doesn't get me there. So yeah, we'll figure it out. - You know what? No, forget it. The wife's still awake. So I've got, Manjaro loaded up here and we're gonna take To be clear, it's entirely possible that I did something completely wrong, not knowing what I was doing. And I'm responsible for I just also think that with the things that I did were or unreasonable. So you can be mad at me for breaking it, but just at least acknowledge to anyone who's not already fully, well-versed in the black Okay. Hold on a second. I didn't manage to catch It started complaining about USB devices. It feels like the old days, doesn't it. I made a video about our 10 maybe like nine years A lot of memories in this house. Mixed feelings on moving. Manjaro went straight into So we're just gonna launch the installer and good luck everybody. - [Luke] I got Wine installed I needed to get Lutris. I didn't find Lutris in So I just went to the Lutris website, followed the command line stuff. And I now have Lutris, which we'll close for now and use later. The Mint Software Manager had Steam. Well, I selected install. It made me put in my password twice and now it's removing. It never stopped trying but I just closed the Package Manager, clicked on to, I'm gonna call Start. I don't know if it's called Start here. And Steam was (chuckling) So I launched it. And it seems to be working. So maybe we're fine. Okay. Sweet. I'm gonna log in. I'll see you on the other side. - I just want you guys to be here with me for the experience so that if (laughing) you'll at least know why maybe. And you can leave a &quot;know it I'm ready. I'm ready. Come at me guys. I'm trying here. I'm trying. (mouse clicking repeatedly) Microsoft has a very broken but this is worse. Hey, is my game controller Oh, nice. Look at that. Why are the two columns Does this mean... Is this proprietary? Because that's what I X Server Settings. Where is X server? X Server gonna give it to you what? Okay. All right. This seems to do kind of I'll figure this out later. Let's get Steam. Let's see if we can get Steam. I saw something about Steam in that update that made me restart. Oh. Steam runtime. Hello? Oh. We're updating again. No problem. - [Luke] Okay. Steam installed. No problems. So I'm gonna quickly go to my settings, go to Steam Play. Enable Steam Play for all other titles. And then have... I guess we'll do Proton 6.3-7. And then I'll go to Shader Pre Caching and Allow background I guess we gotta restart Steam real quick. I believe FTL has a native Linux version. I'm just gonna install directly and we're gaming on Linux boys. There we go. I think I'm done with the first challenge. That wasn't really a challenge. I suspect we will run into - Library. Oh yeah. Oh, hey, look at that. Look at that. Look at that. Boom Linux. Now the game I've been playing Is this Linux, just Let's go boys. Oh, wait. My sound still isn't working. Yeah. I still have no sound. Honestly, I'm kind of Let's just... It's on the right. And no dice on the controller, even though it was I guess we need to figure that out now. This video ended up a lot The goal was simple: Install And I managed to screw it up, so royally that I'm here, hours later, still (laughing) trying to figure it out. This is a native Linux game. Let's just, (sighing) let's just play it. And we're gaming. It's running nice and smooth. This is a native game. So this is really not My sound still isn't working. Still have no idea why that And it seems to just because my controller, is working just fine. I jump, I haven't ever attacked. Yeah, there you go. Hopefully Luke had an The best part of this whole thing, is that we are just getting started. A lot of the games that I wanna run like &quot;Supreme Commander: Forged Alliance&quot; appear to have ways to run them. Discord, looks like there's It involves a lot of command line. Hopefully I won't brick my OS, but step two is getting streaming working. Both Luke and I stream. We both need it working if we're So, good luck everybody. Thanks FreshBooks for FreshBooks is a simple accounting software that's designed specifically the small business owner. It features built an automation that allows you to spend less and more time working on them. So whether you're a trades or YouTuber, you can choose They have an award-winning who's always ready to And you can try FreshBooks with no credit card required (upbeat music) you might also enjoy the It was kind of a minute ago and some things have but it was quite an experience. By the way, if you've made it this far I did in fact, figure out For whatever reason, did all a whole bunch of other stuff. No idea why it did that. I hadn't touched anything. And I did not read In my defense, a lot of that an average user might not understand. And all I was doing was installing Steam. I thought this was just stupid in order to install I didn't know it was gonna (laughing) Whew.