- These are soft robots. Their structural components are built, not out of metal or wood, but flexible materials But how do they work? and why would you want a soft This video was sponsored by KiwiCo. Check out their robots (machine blowing) So I came up to Stanford to meet Zach Hammond and his soft robot. How's it going? All right, you want to tip it? So is the idea that the - Totally, yeah. So you can kind of chain to kind of roll around in any environment. They call this punctuated Wherein it's kind of stuck on a face until it tips over and now it's move its center of gravity. Once that center base, then it tips over one of the edges of - This is a different soft robot made out the way a turtle walks, where diagonally opposite by compressed air and perhaps most impressive, is pneumatic and this means the robot can could spark explosions, or in the strong magnetic you want a soft robot in the first place? - One of the things that I like to do is just up a little bit and show how it's compliant - Nope, because they're safer. - If you'd like to take a whack at it, you - But I don't think this is your work, I don't - No, feel free, go for it - For operation around humans, there's not can stand on these? - Yep. - This is a pretty crazy compliant robot. - Because the the fundamental structure of maximum force that it could ever exert on around people. - Could we make it fall and have me be inside - Yeah. Yeah, we could do that for sure. Just - Yep, if I go over here. - If you're there, yeah, we can do that. - All right, let's try it. Here it comes. - I can try another shape. That's supposed out of it quickly. - Okay. - I haven't tested it in a little while, so... - Sure. - I don't know how it's gonna go, but let's there to your right and you can exit the trust - Boom. - Perfect. - Just that easy. Did you build this by yourself? - Me and one other grad student built this - And how long did it take? - We did it in about a month, I want to say, - And was it tricky? I mean, were you sewing - Yep, we sewed this all ourselves. - The main structural members of this robot - Yeah, so these red tubes are a nylon fabric tube that provides the air tightness. - The tubes are inflated to about six PSI a half atmospheres. Each tube passes through rollers pinch the tube, so it bends kind of - Add the rods and then we have this like rods. And then that coupled with the fact kind of pushing the membrane of the tube into - By driving the motor, it changes the length - Kind of like when a clown creates a twist a balloon animal. The difference between what some passage of air between adjacent segments we're not pressurizing the segments of the - This robot is made of four inflated tubes, triangular sides. - We also think that they kind of look like why we've named these robots after different one over there is Chorizo, There's a Linguica - So what shape is the overall thing? It's - Yeah, we call it an octahedron because if joints here, it would create an octahedral - Driving the motors together, allows the get very tall or short and squat. But since the overall perimeter of the robot, the length So the robot is considered isoparametric. Dynamics videos? - Oh, I love those videos, they're so cool. - The Boston Dynamics robots are kind of terrifying. - Mm-hmm. - I guess and the idea with soft robots, it's and soft and kind, and friendly and fake? - That's definitely true, yeah. There are to make them feel like compliant systems based yeah, they're definitely, you know, heavy not used correctly. - The hard robots we're used to are strong repeatable, but they are also heavy and they but this robot is still capable of carrying - So I have a GUI in MATLAB. - Oh nice. - That enables me to just put in the positions then send them out. There's another other to send to the robots. - Soft robots also have the advantage of shape obstacles or short to fit under obstructions. - So if there is some rock that it didn't simply do that and the compliance of the tubes - Do you imagine robots like this doing work - Oh yeah, definitely. - So one of the nice things about these types their volume very drastically. And because being able to have a robot that can pack down was at one point looking into trust robots us since we've made this robot to explore So one of the things that they're thinking a sheet of ice. So they're gonna drill through through what is a kind of a small diameter can change its volume very drastically or like a much larger structure. Then you can these tight spaces and be deployed in kind - Is this a little bit like an octopus? Is - There is some connection there because they compliance to squeeze through tight passageways, So for example, they can open jars with their to use this robot for is grasping and manipulating - So this robot is even capable of picking - We'll try that and see if we can grab it. has a natural ability to grasp and manipulate ever so slightly, which increases the contact are exerted on the object. - So, I mean is the biggest risk if it pops? - Yeah, that's a a big risk. I mean you obviously and so if you have a leak. Oh. Then you don't - It's a pretty big drawback of soft robots. - You know, some things that you could do a small compressor, which isn't there to provide pressure, if there were any small leaks. - when you tell someone you're working on - Totally. They have no idea what it is I'm or a picture. I think most people's conception movie Big Hero 6. And I think they did a great can do and why they're useful, and kind of great to have compliance built into any mechanical closer and closer with humans. So I think future. - Hey, this video was sponsored by KiwiCo to visit KiwiCo headquarters which was mostly designers who make the awesome projects that - There you go. - Oh boy. - And I'm not gonna lie, it kind of seems the ideas they have brought to life. Dude, offers eight subscription lines for kids of in the box, so that means no running out to making and having fun, but also learning about are often better at thinking big and as a If I can get them learning little things every change in how they see the world. So for viewers your first month of any crate. Just go to down in the description. So I want to thank to thank you for watching.