After taking a 17-hour train from Delhi... I'm here in your city, your favourite city... The city of &quot;Aami Tomake Bhalo Bashi&quot; Our favourite Kolkata! I have seen so many movies and serials And today I'm here in the place of the amazing stories of Rabindra Nath Tagore. I'm literally fascinated! And I thought of changing this And turn into a Bengali girl. That's why I called here the Bong Beauty... Guess who's to be featured in today's video. Finally Nilanjana Dhar! We have been planning to meet I'm not sure if I'm dreaming or if it is real! Shall I pinch you?! Yes, pinch me. I can't believe this! I am such a huge fan of Prerna and I can't believe that I&quot;'m meeting Control your emotions. To be honest, I found her to She's literally so beautiful in real, the I just made the payment a while ago Liar, you didn't pay us at all. You should have paid us a little. Anyways, guys, today's video is going - Because Punjabi girl Prerna is going to be... A Bengali girl! And this Bengali girl is going to So let's get started with the transformation! Let's go! So, guys, I brought this &quot;Biyer Totto&quot; This is a Bengali bridal tray, which is given to a Bengali girl when she's getting married. I'm married once and I'm scared Get married again, I want to I can get married to Harsh. Yes, I'm talking about him only. So here is the Bengali bridal tray. We'll be using this to make your entire makeover. I'm really so excited that you are going And then this saree is so beautiful. How'll I look in this? This saree will become even more I'm already impressed with you, you don't Now I'll get her ready. I need the Bengali makeup too. I'll get everything done. Then I'll sing that Parineeta song Oh My God! - You never boated at the Howrah Bridge, right? You are a fraud! Wow, how beautifully the pleats are being made in the saree. The saree itself is so beautiful And the one holding it is also so beautiful. And the one to wear it, after Oh My God! Nilanjana has forgotten a little about I don't wear it either. But I want to know when she's getting What shall I do if I don't have a You only find a boyfriend for me, She is lying. She is lying. What shall I do if I don't get one? Shall I not be alive? You are going to be Punjabi, so speak in Punjabi. Shall I not be alive? She's saying all this in her Bengali style. Shall I not be alive? You have to throw it like this. Shall I not be alive? Yes, be a little rude. Our language is a little different, very Do you know what you'll No, tell me. - Damn man! Shall I not be alive? Dude, it's tough. Shall I not be alive? Shall I not be alive? Absolutely right! Guys, wearing a saree is not an easy task, Actually, it has been half an hour for draping a saree. Biriyani takes time to make, and In the meantime, we got pasta, coke and your Nilanjana has been so dedicated, that She's come from so far just for us. Had I ever thought that I'd be eating And will drape her saree too?! And will drape her saree too! Nilajnana, you can now stop! I am being shy now! - Ranjana, you to have something to eat. We have been here for a long And this saree is not getting draped, It's almost done. Professional! This is the &quot;pallu', if we want then we It's looking very beautiful the way it is. It's looking so cute just like this. Nilanjana, you are draping it so well, I don't know how to, but I still did it. I don't think she doesn't know, but she's lying. She's a liar! She has done it all so well, it reminded me of the serial... &quot;Kuch rang pyaar ke aise bhi&quot; Those who have watched it do tell me. In that Sonakshi wore a saree similar to this on I should have brought the crown too. There's too much mess in it, the in-laws are Punjabi So this reminded me of that. Shall I bring the crown, will you marry again? No! I feel like I'm playing doll-house, like we used In Bengal, what we do is, I brought one more thing for you, shall I show you? One at a time! - Shall I show it right now? I don't want to miss out on You can't guess what it is. - I know what it is. I've seen Bengali serials. Let me show you. - Bangles right? Both of these have different names. Whatever their name is, they are simply bangles. These are to be worn only after the marriage. This is Shakha. Shakha, yes I knew it, but This is Pola. - These both have different names? Thank you so much, you worked so hard for me. Thank god, it fits you. Now whenever she comes to Delhi, we'll be Are we going to make a bun or We are doing it in open hair because Now let's get it set in my hair. You know you can do it professionally, right? I'm thinking about the same thing if my Pray to god, that it never happens. Nilanjana convinced me for something It's looking good. - Really?! I never wear a saree, but today I feel You are going to love yourself. I'll fall in love with myself. I have seen self-obsessed people, but I want to see Harsh's and Asher's When I am falling in love then they'll You are feeling so because you are As you can see, our Bengali But we are thinking of adding some jewellery. You know that it's not my wedding, right. - I think that it will be a... And Asher won't let me wear this for too long. You can wear the earrings. Okay, let's wear the earrings. - It looks good. Let's check for now, I'll remove It's heavy! I don't know why am I feeling shy. I hope you don't get hurt while being shy. Cut some money off her payment for overacting. Is there anything left in my look? We can add a little eyeliner, Kajol. - On the upper eyelid? Okay, let's apply it. Apply whatever you want. Guys, I have to work so hard to be Bengali. It'll take her only 2 minutes to be Punjabi. It'll take me only 2 seconds Then I'll instantly become Punjabi. Then what'll happen to your Bengali? There's no Bengali in my life? - Find someone for me. In American families, it's like, &quot;Mom, I'm getting married to this boy. Say yes.&quot; There must be a video, where you It didn't happen right then, I don't remember He tells me that he saw that, Polu told it at home and thought that if they were doing this to Imagine! So, there was drama in his case too? - In my brother's case? You'll get to know about it later. She's looking so beautiful that I have no words. This scene was meant to happen with Harsh. Why is this happening to me? Why is this Bollywood scene happening here? Why is this happening? Why is it? Look after your shirt, it shouldn't be My shirt won't be torn but your Hairstyle is nothing to worry about, This should have been happening to Harsh, I swear I'm rating Nilanjana's She did such an amazing makeover of mine. You are so talented Nilanjana, I hope you I would come uninvited. If I ever run a Salon, then I'd Nice marketing tactics. These are today's YouTubers. By the way, guys, this is so stunning. I could never imagine myself as a Bengali Beauty. But I thought of something similar if I ever Thank you, Nilanjana, I love you! I'll pay you later for this. I'll take it for sure. Now it's your turn to become Punjabi, You won't even have to do a I can't believe that I'm going to wear Prerna's clothes. Let's go guys. Nilanjana is finally here This won't be the Aashiqui-2 scene, right? That would be a little too much. To be honest this colour suits her so well. I've never seen her wearing This is looking good, you know. It would definitely look good, Nilanjana is doing the Punjabi makeup right now. And I asked her to do that trending step with me. The black bindi is looking so cute. I am cute. I'm wearing Prerna's, which is such an It's not expensive. They are millionaire-billionaire people. This is really inexpensive, I was living the moment, why did you ruin it? It must feel good, that's what matters. Money doesn't matter. The jewellery of hers that I'm wearing is Stop it girl, I'll give you the feeling - The one of a millionaire? Guys, they really are millionaires. Guys, may god bless us. We are just waiting for Harsh. He is here! Do you think Harsh will like this look? You'll open the door. Let me wear some heels. Wait a minute guys, I'm Look at where she is hiding. Okay, you can come in now. What's happening over here. Guys, look at my look. A Bengali girl! Too beautiful, my first compliment! You are looking too good! Asher, you also say that she's looking good. He's not recognising you. For real? Are you unable to recognise me? Look at how happy he is. Asher, this is your mother. - How am I looking? She dressed me as a bride, so we - If you want to. We'll dress Asher as a little groom. We'll look for a bride for him. Nilanjana is ready too, she's So, what's happening right now? We are now going outside. The crossover is complete. I can promise one thing. Everyone will turn their heads at you. Oh My God! - Is this really good? We must put a black dot It's alright. No, you'll have to. So, now we'll be going out where she Punjabi food is too easy to try. - Exactly Chhole Bhature. And I'll try... He won't let me do anything. And I'll try... What will I be trying? - Shall I tell you? - Shall I? - Shall I tell you later? She'll lose it when I'll tell it to her. - Rosogolla? Rosogulla is all I know. Too hard! What such thing is going to happen? Shall I do that Dola Dance? - I've forgotten the steps. Shall we be going now? Will you sit here for a minute? - What do you need to talk? We need to discuss what we are going to do. Where are we going and what we'll be eating. - We'll go to the Howrah Bridge. - Boating? Look at my hairstyle, she's so talented. - It's looking good, right? - How much would you rate it out of 10. This is my way, I'll give it 20 out of 10. - I'd even give a 100. He gave a biscuit out of 100. Thank you, baby! He's so happy after looking at Mom. Wow! Okay guys, now these Bengali and Punjabi You have no idea of how much But for results, you'll have to visit her channel. You can see it right now. We are now the same height. - Show your heels. - She wears so high heels. Almost the height of this Coke can. Let's go and eat Chhole Bhature. She's not yet revealed the secret - Shall I tell you? Let's go By the way, we are not going like this. Because she's Punjabi, so - And I would be going in? Let's go for Thar vs Yellow taxi. So, now Nilanjana is going in Thar, and I'm going in the taxi. Bye! Bye bye! Here's my Yellow taxi, and Hello! I'm feeling shy because Are we welcome in it? Of course, I'm not going Asher, we'll also sit in this taxi. Let's go! - Bye-bye! The feeling is so great, I'm having so much She is such a cute girl and she did Finally, we are here at the Princep Ghat. Let's have some food. The feeling of the Yellow taxi is so different. The Bengali princess is going With another Bengali princess. No, I'm Punjabi. - Oh sorry, with another... I can't say it, you look too Bengali. I'll marry a Punjabi guy. It'll happen. Prerna, what's the plan? To eat, as we are hungry. We can't find Bengali food. I'll give you amazing food. Do that &quot;Pinga&quot; dance. That's not Bengali, but Marwadi. Oh, okay. Here you'll have to do &quot;Aami je tomar&quot;! Oh god, no! I'll do &quot;Dola re Dola&quot;. Neelu, tell us what we are going to eat. - Are you hungry? - We'll eat Pav Bhaji. - She'll eat all that. Bengali beauty will eat Bengali food. The authentic Bengali food is Fish curry. Do you want to eat too? No! - Prerna? - You are a YouTuber, right? You recognised me in this outfit? No, I recognised you because of him. Then why did you ask me if I'm Prerna? - You remembered me later? - What's your name? - Say &quot;Hi!&quot; to everyone. Is this live? Where were we? Yes, right there. You have to eat Fish curry. What, fish?! Pav Bhaji! Pav Bhaji is not bengali. She is the Bengali beauty, Wait a minute! I and Asher are not into this. The husband of the Bengali wife also eats it. Guys, there are many more Bengali There are so many things, give me Then you'll have to eat the spicy Phuchka. Okay! - Spicy ones okay. You'll have Pav Bhaji and I'll eat Phuchka. - Okay. She wanted me to eat Fish curry. And here we have a plate of Pav Bhaji. For Nilanjana the Punjabi girl. - I won't eat it. I won't even give you one. How'll you eat if I don't even give you? I'm going to eat Phuchka. Tell him what to make. Add more spice, more lime and What's she saying? I only understood that she asked him to make it really good. Spice would be a lot. Very spicy! It'd be sour too. It means there would be more lime. I love sour, let's see how sour it is. You have to eat an entire Phuchka at once. - I'll eat it all at once. What do you mean by first? How The first one broke. Minus minus! I'll still eat it. Is it good? It's too good. If Harsh were to eat it, he What's different about it? What's the difference? It's exactly the same. It shouldn't break, the whole thing at once. She's a Bengali girl, she knows everything. I think I was a Bengali in my previous life even though I came here for the first time. We were eating Phuchka and This is an elephant! Let's buy one. Which one do you want? You bought an Elephant. Good baby, Asher. - Parrot? Give him a pegion, he likes that. Okay, give him the parrot only. Bengal's parrots are very famous. Show me the horse as well. Why don't you buy everything?! Here we got the Pav Bhaji. Yummy! I'm so excited about this Pav Bhaji. That too with so much butter. If there's no butter on a Punjabi plate Do I dip it in, or do I eat both things separately? - Are you eating this for the first time? Eat however you want to, it's alright. - I want to eat it like roti and vegetables. Like this? Amazing! - This is so good. So yummy! How do you say &quot;really good&quot; in Punjabi? - Changa! - Great! I couldn't eat Fish curry but she ate Pav Bhaji. You did eat Phuchka. We spent the whole day, now I think we - Let's go! This feeling is so amazing. Be careful. - Wow, this is so peaceful. - She has never tried this boat. Why do you know how to He doesn't know how to swim either. If I drown, Prerna will save me. Because she knows how to swim. This is actually so relaxing. I did this for relaxation only. Can you see the Sunset? Shouldn't you have then done it alone? I should not have been here, but I'm - That too in between them. It's so relaxing to see the bridge I would like to thank Nilanjan, Situ, and Ranjana, I wanted to come to Kolkata for a long time. And Kolkata and its people I would be coming here again. The next time I'll come during the Durga Puja. - Say Hi! - Say Hi! He won't say &quot;Hi&quot; to you. He's saying &quot;bye&quot; instead of &quot;hi&quot;. Here you can do the &quot;Aami je tomar&quot; Look what happened to your Mom. Look what Mom is doing! [Subtitles by: Shubhankar and Akash]