- I pride myself on but those take like 10, 15 minutes, you guys don't have time for that. Could they be distilled into To find out, we took some of the best TechToks, that is to say TikToks with tech tips, and we're gonna tell you Starting with this pile - [Alex] Yep. - This is gonna be interesting. Unlike our sponsor CableMod, but they look fantastic. CableMod allows you to with custom colored cables. Try out their configurator and get a realistic preview of your cables at the link down below. (upbeat music) One of the most fun is I haven't actually seen and our first one is from Dylan. - @dylan_844. - Got it, there's a lot of Dylan's. - [Alex] I had to go to the these old DirectTV DVRs. - This TikTok suggests a cheap hard drive is to go to of these old DVRs for as then strip it down to Dylan suggests that you can as one or even two terabytes which would be one heck of a value. And we can actually already might be onto something. One thing Dylan glossed over in his very concise guide though is that those are security screws. (saw revving) - Okay just hold on there for a second. That's not very safe. You can hold that a bit better. - [Linus] Oh yeah, not bad. (saw cutting) - Oh yeah. - [Alex] You want some gloves? I'm gonna get you some gloves. - [Linus] Nah, I'm fine. (saw cutting) I am very covered in metal shards. - [Alex] Can I suggest- - [Linus] Nah, I'm good. (Saw cutting) (metal clanking) Now it's time to find out what I got for my $30 starting with the gray one. That definitely has a hard drive inside. Wow, that is a dusty disgusting machine. And sure enough, SATA hard-drive, got some hot glue on the that they don't come out. I've seen that trick before. And oh, that's a disappointment. I don't even know what a DB 35.2 is, but I know 160 gigabytes when I see it. That's not worth the $5 Dylan promised, let alone the 10 that I paid. This is like those videos where you just open up Pokemon card except dirtier and way grosser. (metal clanking) There we go. Hey, 500 Gigs this time. I mean, I actually don't for a 500 Gig drive, but that's a lot better than Am I right? (metal clanking) Now for door number three 500 Gigs. What is a Pipeline hard drive? Man, these OEM only models Very, very strange. Still, this is at least worth extracting. So we've gonna go ahead and take out two standard right here and here. Then do a little bit of is actually held down by And a one. (metal clanking) - [Alex] That's probably - Oh no, that's probably fine. Honestly, actually, the way it's like crazy. A few more screws to remove Then we pop this guy off a voila, completely standard 500 Gig drive. All in all we salvaged 1.16 for about 23 US dollars, but Dylan failed to mention a few things. The tools required to The precautions that should with equipment that has like these DVRs. The incredibly important step of the units so that you can find out how much hard drive space And of course, the minor detail that in use for oftentimes a very long time under non-ideal conditions. And the odds of them actually In fact, only two of them spun up and And only one of them, a 500 Gig model managed to So overall a lot more creative than shucking external drives, but these omissions are gonna I give this TechTok a 7/10. But if (metal falling) to your system isn't the best idea. What can you do if your drive is full? Well, one idea is to just free up space on your existing machine. We watched countless TikToks and this one by @hardwaresavvy is definitely the best, but also the most infuriating, because he almost got it right. - [@hardwaresavvy] How to of space from your PC. And you'll be surprised that are taking up a lot of in a long time like this one here. - This is all fine. - [@hardwaresavvy] In the next video, I'm gonna show you a tool to free up tens of gigabytes of data that you never thought - He shows WinDirStat briefly, No video about it ever comes out. (Alex laughing) - Okay, uninstalling unused programs and cleaning up temporary But the truth is that four to install many game patches these days, let alone the entire game. And that's where the type of but then didn't demonstrate We're gonna go to Ninite.com, get your Ninite, and we're gonna install one of those tools and show you guys how to use it. Now that WinDirStat is is wait for the analysis to run. You have 18 and a half gigs When the analysis is done, you get this great your entire drive as a and rectangles. Then if you select a particular folder, you can actually see of the individual files And that's what's really is instead of only that the operating system itself created and knows are temporary, it can target files that and then totally forgot about. Overall, we were able to of unneeded data, so I give this TechTok The implementation where make the video he promised, drags it down to about a three. (upbeat music) We have no idea why these This is not hacking. It's the easiest cheapest content ever, but for whatever reason, it So they're fine. We tried it. But that wasn't really The point of this segment of the top TikTok hacks as what I just did was. (keyboard clicking) Our first hack from of a million likes and - [@dreaaaaas] You go up to this top bar and you type in prnt.sc/ any two letter and any four numbers, and you press enter, and it will give you a screen - Okay, so we're just going typing in random characters, and hoping to creep someone's picture. - [Alex] Yeah, so I did There were a couple that we can't show, but those were just stuff English proficiency tests, and someone's onboarding as a mechanical engineer where also lots of invoices, all of which are not things - Okay, so what's happening here is people are using more than what's included with their computer. Snipping tool, which comes with Windows will and then save that file, but it only saves it locally. Some of these other programs have features that allow upload the image to an and then they will actually take that URL, automatically copy it to your clipboard, and then allow you to with someone else. It's very convenient when aren't confidential or private, but this goes to show could stumble across or in this case on purpose. - [Alex] Oh, do you want - Not porn is it? I'd be enjoying a glass of wine, sitting back in a black leather armchair watching a fireplace while are covered in screaming Yeah, definitely a way to kill an hour if you have nothing else to do, and unlike any of other hacks, you aren't actually accessing someone didn't intend to share with you. I'm giving it a 10. Time for our next hack. Everyone knows about inspect element, yep. It allows you to edit the But if you go to console and you can edit just about by typing normally. It's still not a hack, but if you're into doctoring screenshots and causing mayhem within I could see this one coming in handy. I give this one a nine. It's just so convenient. I can share this with Steve right now. Steve just got back to me, &quot;WTF. What the (beeping) is this lol? Joke or no?&quot; I am literally the worst friend. I dropped everything and in the checking account. Can I upgrade that one to a 10/10 time? - [Alex] Yep. - Time for our next hack? - [Alex] This one's my favorite. - Oh God, okay. I see where this is going. Time to hide this homework folder. Customize, change icon, could ever look for, yep. Hidden forever. Hiding in plain sight. It's not hacking, but I give it an 8.5/10. - [Alex] Really? - Well the thing about if whoever's looking for it knows how to show hidden folders, they will be able to find that one. So you can see it's as simple as changing my file explorer settings to Now MSN Network shows up of grayed out. That's what hidden folders look like. So me, an intellectual, I'm gonna go, &quot;Someone was trying to hide this.&quot; Oh my (beeping). A better way to hide in plain sight then and encrypt it. So now our original MSN and this new folder can Now that's a money shot. How to view any private Instagram post. - [@trueyt] So what is you're gonna right click, hit inspect. - Oh good, we're back to inspect element. - [@trueyt] Click that So after you y'all remove all you gotta do is Ooh, there y'all go, man. - That is pathetic if that actually works. You reload the page. Maybe at some point it was this easy. Apparently it doesn't work anymore. I'm giving this a 1/10. Why does it have 23,000 likes? - One really popular type of TechTok is people showing off and talking about just how - [@1dktech] This is my gaming setup. - Oh god, her voice is so annoying. - First off with the PC, when I bought it, it was around $1,100. However, I made a few upgrades so far. So I think that price - You think? You think? - [@1dktech] I think the entire - You think? - [@1dktech] The mic was free I paid for my Boom Arm, so the total for my gaming - By that logic. - Well, you guys wouldn't you can get this set up. I paid $0. EK sent this over to us so and have like a sick gaming we got from Ikea for a total of, I think it was $10. I got these lightsabers. Maybe these were 20 bucks Who's counting anyway? These gold coins, these (beeping) you dbrand. Obviously the best part Northern Lights Desk Pad, Samsung sent us this monitor. They actually sponsored So net this cost negative dollars. So in total, this gaming setup cost you less than $0. Enjoy, hope it was helpful. Fricking idiot. (Alex laughing) - [Linus] Watch what my epic gaming battle station. (rock music playing) Okay, rigging VLC to open on your computer, not exactly a hack, but I can see why the Unfortunately, what they didn't show you, is how to do it. Step one is you'll need someone to control your RGB lighting. Andy, do you want to come (Andy vocalizing) - Yeah, we had an iPad to do that, but the app was being complicated, so Andy pressed the button. Anyway, the point is, all you gotta do is go on spiceworks.com and there's this great topic called Windows 10 Play a video upon login before loading the desktop. It's a bit of doing. It will take awhile but (film reeling), the point is if you really wanna do that, you can follow this guide, or maybe there's a better one. I don't know. I don't care, it doesn't matter. I give this one a 4/10. It's definitely cool, but they don't show you What else we got here? Oh, good, @hardwaresavvy is back. - [@hardwaresavvy] Here's how to make your computer faster in 10 seconds. - Ooh. - [@hardwaresavvy] Restart your computer. When you enter your bios, find your bios, find click on it, and choose it. - Oh man, okay. There's a few things here. One, yes X.M.P. can be a way out of your computer, but in many cases, the X.M.P. rated speed of your RAM will not actually run stably with your motherboard and the on your CPU. - I give this tech tip a 6.5. It's a valid tech tip, but there's a lot of details missing. Yeah @hardwaresavvy could have mentioned that it's called D.O.C.P.on AMD systems. That's, that's useful. That's good to know. (rock music) - Oh my God. Shut up. Okay, so it shows you how to the windows clipboard. All right, that's pretty handy. Let's try it. Ctrl+C, Ctrl+C. Just make sure that you on a shared computer you are copying things that you wouldn't want anyone else to see. (Linus vocalizing) Good TechTok, 9.5/10. I like it. Our final TechTok from @dasavage1013, has 59,000 hearts and 2,000 shares. - [@dasavage1013] Push the FN Windows and Shift key with B. It's gonna reset slash fix your drivers and your graphics card. Okay, Ctrl+ Windows+Shift+B. Okay, 9/10. Could be a useful TechTok. Just like this could be a useful message from our sponsor, FreshBooks. FreshBooks is the easy to designed specifically with you in mind, the small business owner. It has built-in automation, so you spend less time tracking projects and more time doing what matters most, growing your business. So whether you're a trades person, creative agency, or a YouTuber, you can choose a plan They have award-winning who's always ready to And you don't have to take you can try FreshBooks for No credit card required If you guys enjoyed this video, but you're looking for maybe check out our timecard video. That's right. It's a card designed to It's actually really cool.