These are the sounds of the It has shaped the sound of House, Hip Hop and Pop to In this video we'll take a look at 16 including its very first appearance as well so get ready for some We'll be using the OXI One as a sequencer so and you can try the patterns in Hello everyone, this is... 1983 was a turbulent year Sample-based machines like the LinnDrum The now legendary 808 was discontinued. And as its successor But it took a few months for an actual And so in 1984, the Japanese drum machine On the &quot;Remission&quot; EP by the You've got to hand it to Skinny Puppy: Their drum patterns sound This is about as far away from We love the 808, but you just so many great new features that it makes even You've already heard one of these in Individual and global accents. On the 909 you can decide for each step The 808 only gave you a global accent, which emphasized all That global or total but the important thing is that it This instantly gives you access which can make your tracks The 808 takes the undisputed first place as Kurtis Mantronik has built a lot of fantastic so who's to say he can't He was one of the genre's early adopters which gave those tracks That was another great use Listen how the bounce immediately And Mantronix' Bassline showcased Shuffle and Flam. Shuffle or swing allows you to delay which gives the rhythm Check out our video about Swing and Shuffle A flam is a double hit, like this. These double hits don't each On the 909 they consist of a followed by the stronger main note. Flams are entered in a different mode, because you can't see the regular steps. There are no individual accents for flams, but The flam width lets you choose how far from narrow to wide. Sadly flams aren't available You can only place them Considering how often Phil from the underground into you could call him a drum Unlike many drummers of the time he wasn't Instead he used them as an proving that acoustic and electronic In 1985 the inevitable happened... Due to its lack of initial the 909 followed the footsteps of the the 808 and 606, into After only three years it Probably because by that time the market was all hyped up on and the analog instruments Little did they know Inner City's Kevin Saunderson Along with Juan Atkins and Derrick May he was one of the originators for which the 909 But it often wasn't the only While the 808 had a great set Congas, Claves and Maracas, Roland wanted to focus more on So the 909 had to make In this case it's the TR-727 which But let's take a look at the 909 part. Maybe you noticed that when the Hand Clap it sounds a bit odd. Let's There's this weird hollow phasing sound And that's because they both use A workaround is to route one of The signal phase on the external outputs DJ Eddie Flashin' Fowlkes that he picked up his first To say that this was a good Of the 10.000 TR-909s most beaten down ones are So of course there's a market The DinSync RE-909 and the Steda SR-909 are They were created as DIY projects and so they have the same I've always wanted to try one, but I just didn't have the time When we found out that Turnlab is building and selling we asked them if we could borrow If you're also interested then check them out, you can 1989 saw the release of Belgian Back then this genre because it combined But that genre label was we all know what 909 beats and Kicks... Accents... Three Open Hats in a row. Plus a Closed Hat on each beat. That makes the Kicks extra clicky. The Closed Hats are especially important and thereby prevent them Adjust the decay until And now for the cherry on top: We're going to give every step Except the ones Sounds almost like sidechain The Open Hats start to pump and Look, I'm not saying this pre-empted but it is a pretty nifty trick. We'll also need Hand No phasing issues this time, because by using a Hand Clap from The TR-707. And that's where another It actually was the first drum That's something we but MIDI was brand new back then. It's crazy to think that although it can still communicate with Here I'm using one of to trigger a sample An 808 Open Hat. And some 808 Maracas. Madonna always had a knack for picking up &quot;Vogue&quot; incorporated many and naturally this included The track became Madonna's biggest and the best-selling But that's only half the story. there's an elaborate percussion Let's head over to There are Finger Snaps where Then a 727 High Conga. That's all we need for the intro. And a 707 Tambourine. Last but not least: One of my The Agogo. This is a samba instrument And one pitched low. Here we used the 727 Agogo. Apparently March 1990 was a Only six days after Madonna's which he wrote This actually was Seal's big break and he later re-recorded Wasn't quite as successful though. Nothing to really write home And that comes from the a budget sample-based It had no programmable sequencer, but And according to In an interview he said that He simply sent the iconic bassline But when I looked at the the notes didn't We were tempted to buy an but luckily @vintagemodernaudio was kind enough to record so we could more accurately Our conclusion is that Adamski used Either way this &quot;mimicking&quot; of adds a really interesting There are some tracks that keep although they were not Orbital's &quot;Halcyon + On + On&quot; are two good examples for this. They feature only a that most likely came from which had an expansion Some elements of the 909 like that they seem to dominate But I guess this is We'll lean into it and make an During the early '90s a new harder Hardcore Techno. Its aggressive sound was first achieved and overloading their The 909's Kick Drum was The reason is that it has a It starts at a higher pitch A pitch bend or a This makes it sound more than the smooth, round Thanks to its more the 909 Kick translates but it also plays really well with distortion. And Trac-X by Circuit is a great example where distortion but to the entire drum track. Bjork's Hunter features one of the which is why we already dedicated an entire It turns out though that Bjork when she said that Mark Most likely he used a a virtual analog sequenced by the Latronic Notron which is lovingly called So, just to confirm all my to program Hunter's weird combo of Here are patterns 1 and 2 using Daft Punk's &quot;Revolution 909&quot; is a so naturally we had to I mean, it has &quot;909&quot; in one of the best demonstrations This club hit originated from more than a decade later when and everyone's favourite troll Apart from the 909 this two sounds from a sample CD This one from track 57 &quot;Bangs&quot; which And this one from track 58 &quot;Whooshes&quot; Okay, let's pause here for a second. That Snare roll you just heard is only The odd hits are but the even-numbered hits By the beginning of the new had fallen a bit out of fashion became more and Luckily this drum machine and soon our beloved beige &quot;The Giver&quot; was Duke Dumont's But three years before he which feels a bit closer so that's the one This pattern actually has The first one is what I'd To achieve this we routed the Then we split it up: It goes but also into a 100% wet reverb. If we mute the dry signal then This creates a nice ghostly Hmm. Come to think of it this might Yep. I wonder what Dumont and Darude The second trick is that but only on this single step. And the third trick It's thrown in there to make the You know what... I'm wondering if the So... you're saying the the Hand Clap isn't from the 909 and there's this weird swing Yeah and the Kick doesn't Uh oh. Turns out that the 909 Hi-Hat along with the vocals from a track called You got me this time, Dumont. John Tejada's &quot;Predicting Machine&quot; It's an album filled to the brim so this time we're pretty sure it's It's a great drum pattern with just 16 is mute and unmute tracks What happens when you into a bright empty Magic. I mean seriously, this that a drum machine can be played I am however deeply Done. And all in Sure, if you don't count Our final pattern for this a Korean DJ and producer. With this 2021 track to the '90s club music she Also: This might be the coolest In true '90s fashion this track relies We have the 707 Tambourine. Always a good choice. And on Which is downtuned by 3 to 4 The most prominent effect It's a simple 16th note delay. Just But the trick is that you only put the And remember: You can find the transcriptions and many more on our Patreon along with Cheat Sheets for lots of including the 909. And as always: A big Thanks to you we can I mean... Ask anyone and they'll give you this down-chirp UNTZ UNTZ UNTZ UNTZ