I'm Nancy Silverton, and I am the co-owner of Pizzeria I've invited you into my kitchen As you can see, or a lot of ingredients All I really need is a mixer and a scale. My pizza dough is not based on a I divide that dough making into two steps. The first or preliminary step I'm fermenting half of the flour with the yeast for a minimum of an hour creating a sponge with half of the flour I get better flavor and better texture. I'm going to start out I'm going to add to that a tablespoon of rye flour, a teaspoon and a half of wheat germ, So just mix those ingredients up with a wooden spoon or your hand just until they're combined. And then let's wrap this up in plastic. And this is going to sit either at room temperature Or better yet, the sponge that I'm using, I have actually let sit overnight I prefer an overnight sponge more flavor. But also what it does is going to be cold You know, I'm going to be mixing the dough And what happens And once that dough is heated up, the dough to react and rise much quicker. The only downside to that if you're going to make pizza. You can't wake up in the morning and say, My sponge is nice and bubbly and alive. It's easy because it looks like a sponge. Just like when I made the dough. You always want to start out with liquid. I'm going to add my remaining flour. I'm adding a little bit of barley malt to my dough. If you can't find barley malt, is also a good addition. What that does is it gives the dough But it also helps the dough with getting that beautiful So I'm going to mix on low for 2 minutes and then I'm going to add the salt. I think whenever you mix an electric free standing mixer, I think it takes only one time that you turn the mixer on too high before you realize to anything in that mixer, Okay, 2 minutes. And I'll add the salt. And now I can turn the mixer up for 10 minutes until that dough cleans the sides of the bowl. Okay, so when it gets close to 10 minutes, if you have measured or weighed out correctly, It should be cleaning But if you listen carefully, not only do you hear the roar you also hear the slapping And my dough is ready, ready not to shape and bake, but ready to proof to. There we go. So choose a nice deep, preferably ceramic or wooden bowl. Lightly oil. It and dump it in. It initially seems very sticky. Resist the urge to add more flour. I promise you that as the dough sits and we give it a fold and give it a second fold all the strength to make a dough that feels right So I'm going to cover the bowl sit out at room temperature This dough is going to sit at room and we'll give it its first of two folds. Okay. My dough has clearly doubled in volume, the first of its two folds. It's going to get flour to surface. Make sure you have a nicely floured take the dough out of the bowl, and we're simply going to deflate it, bring it back into a ball, put it back in the bowl. I'm going to cover it and let it sit another 45 minutes until it doubles in volume once again. And then we're going to be able to scale shape it and bake it. Okay. My dough has risen for the second time 45 minutes here. Beautiful, and I'm ready to scale it and round it. I need a well floured surface. Bring the dough out of the bowl little flour. Looks great, and I'm going to scale it into a four ounce pieces. It's sticky. Now we're ready to shape so that we can eventually stretch it You need enough flour on your work surface stick to the table, but not so much You need to get a little bit of friction between the dough and the work surface to get a nice rounded ball, dip the end in flour so it doesn't stick to the baking sheet. And so once this dough is shaped lightly, dust the top with flour And you just want to take one tea towels and lay it on so that the dough doesn't form a skin. And I'm going to let it sit at room so that the dough relaxes and it'll be