Here there are six seven armed Fragile weapon. In Haiti, when we say gang, we only think of the bad : people We are not dishonest people. We are revolutionaries because They're whipping a guy. It's violent, isn't it? It's not violent. Hello. There, there is a boy who must be at most 11, 12 years old, Can you ask him how old he is? 14 years old. They tell me that he is 14, They're taking us This is an M4, a long M4. I will spend my whole life I'm ready to die with it. Since the beginning of the year 2024, a large part of Port-au-Prince, the capital of Haiti, is controlled There are around 23 gangs in the city, On the one hand, the GPEP, And GNEUF run by Jimmy Cherisier, who I was able to interview But at the time, I wasn't allowed And that's part of the reason why I wanted to go back there to see the state gang ridden neighborhoods, but I also wanted to confront them with the testimonies of the locals, who told me because of the fighting between Hello. There are 6 or 7 armed men They all have assault rifles. Some of them roll joints. I think it's weed and drink flash. I don't know what alcohol it is. We're going to be a bit cautious, handling weapons. But as good weed. The herb of wisdom. Where does marijuana come from? Here. Yes. Krazos That is boz leme, Krazos. There are the leaves. And this is tobacco leaf. Do you smoke a lot? A lot I smoke every day, I smoke every day. I don't count. There is always some in my cartel. Every day we get stoned. This armed group is commanded by a chief who goes It's said that several hundred And for over a year, it has controlled the southern Called Carrefour-Feuilles They chased the police And according to the United Nations more than 19,000 inhabitants Can you ask them what kind of alcohol Asosi? What is it? It's a mix of white artisanal rum Okay. It's a medical leaf. And when you mix it, Even if you have a fever, Okay. We enjoy drinking Is it strong? It's really strong. Do you ever drink it before a potential battle Of course. It's like water to us. It increases our strength It's like a trophy for us. When we drink Asorosi. We drink and shoot people. Isn't he too drunk afterwards? Aren't you too drunk? Drunk? No, we're not. Here's my gun, on my ass. You see, that's his spot. I always have it on the back of a motorcycle, I'm an artist, not a gangster. A local artist. After this sequence, with a guy He was released from Port-au-Prince prison by the armed groups And now he's And he wanted to tell me The state does not exist We have since decades There simply to manage and their families. It doesn't care The problem in this Who did all this. Because if these policemen were doing their job It wouldn't have happened. So you say No, it's not that we didn't do anything. Because when there is a war, Innocent people will be killed. We can't say we are sheeps. We did not want to take up arms because we are all Haitians. Above all, it is our country. It's the only one we have. The country has to function. So there I am, not far from the entrance 400m at the end of this street. It is actually the part And here we are of Carefour-Feuilles, today, You can see there are quite a few destroyed The corrupt police officers control the top. So we are forced to put a post here so they don't come, invade And there it is, our second chef to control the whole area to ensure order. How many armed men In our group, because it's a strategic network. I can't reveal the number, How old are the people Because the ones I've seen They're 18, 19, 20, 25 on average. Are there any 17 or 16 year olds? Not really. Not really. If there are teenagers, There are several houses like this on the main street Completely burned and destroyed. So most of them have been burned between the armed group There really are a lot of streets with a desolate landscape. These are urban guerrilla battles, so they generally involve extremely There are also lots of belongings in a hurry. Actually, because according to them, to normal As soon as you move away from the there's hardly They're empty. No, it's not empty. There are some people. They are in their house. They will go out when Yes, but you see, controlled by the police, there's always a lot of people It's normal because this area is never attacked. Earlier, you know, How do you find these guns? You said the state But what does that mean? Corrupt people. Even today, you're being supplied Of course there are arms dealers. These are very powerful people. How do you buy them, then? With what money? With money from corrupt policemen. Because... So what you're telling me Haitian politicians who corrupt Corrupts, who support the war. And you, with all your talk about it doesn't bother you to bargain with corrupt politicians Who partly financed you? They put us in this position How should we live? And in the neighborhood are any school still in operation, A health center for people? You know that after the battle, to settle and other buildings Now schools are coming back. For example, there is this school "Mixed It's closed today because every day and noon. You can see the inscriptions. Okay. For the start of the year? There's a lot of car wrecks here. Of course, But it's dangerous for children. All these wreckage of cars No, no. We will clean everything. It is the primary objective so that people For nearly an hour, They especially wanted to that supplies I was also able to go to a market but they didn't allow me to film there is controlled by another chief. But it does allow me that despite the presence commercial activities with people living there. But in reality, it doesn't mean And I'm going to see that back to the checkpoint They're whipping a guy. So this is actually not a scene They were hitting a It's really complicated when we have cameras, because And it can also put us in danger. Because in general, they pay attention to everything Fortunately, they did not see When we got closer, But we don't know He is a young man into people's houses So we caught him and now we're beating him with a stick Otherwise he'll die. You do justice yourselves, then. We control the area. We're going to get blamed We have our own way of dealing It's violent. It's not violent. It's done even by the police. Yeah, but it's not legal. The police is not allowed They didn't have the right but us. Instead of killing that person, so he doesn't do the same mistakes. A few minutes later, we witnessed the management of the neighborhood So this truck that just passed by What is this money? What's it for? Is it a transit tax? This is not a tax. They just pass by They see how security is done, and they encourage us to better Sometimes water. You're telling me They encourage According to the Haitian police and human rights armed groups almost systematically And this is one of their sources We'd already been there I knew we didn't have much time And before we left, I really wanted to confront them who had fled the neighborhood And so we sat down with Matador and another 25 year To be clear, We lost everything we owned. The gangsters stole everything. They looted everything. If a house hasn't been set on fire, it was looted Everything you work hard to get. They took everything. Because of Because of the mess at Carrefourfeuilles, We have been living in the streets I am living in the street and I have nowhere to go. Their father is unemployed because of the gangsters We have no possibility. I'd like to go home. I think this lady is talking crazy. Gangsters don't chase people. It is rather the policemen who live in Right now, we're not doing people If we abused people, they wouldn't And neither would cars. It is clear that we are not there It's simple. Does it affect you to hear this? There are some among them, I can say most of them, They really move me. There are some poor people You don't know how many children how they lived, how But the main You say that you are not but have you been looting To be honest, it's true. Do you want to say something? Yes. We are not responsible for looting. We don't have time for that. We fight. No, but once the fight is over, you can go to people's houses Actually, the chiefs Sometimes there are people to loot houses. I then confronted them who had the courage to tell me in the presence of her child They entered and vandalized My son was crying. I told him to be quiet, Then at that moment. At that moment, and they raped me. They raped me. The group I belong to, the people of my Corporal Lapli to do these things, since the corporal gives us to have women. And we have lots of them. And they have the right to say no. What does that mean We have many women in our district, and we even We can flirt with them and take care of them. With the money provided by the chiefs. And our chiefs forbid these kinds of things They have formally prohibited rape. During the fight, there may be infiltrators our credibility. Black, do you confirm this? Is it We are sorry for this lady. And it is from the bottom Because I have a daughter myself If it was my family, if it was my wife, if it was it It would be the same. I would be capable The day after this shooting, that had never been filmed before, part of the roads north This armed group that I told you about Our contact to go see this and he's arranged to meet us Then there years old, holding a machine gun. You're wearing a hood too. Can you ask him how old he is? 14? He is 14. They tell me that he is but I think he is a little younger. So they are taking the bikes and they are bringing us where? We are going somewhere else. But it's closeby, They're taking us to one of their bases on route one. No camera? No. So there, we've just arrived. They went ahead that we were there Then we'll be able to move on. There is a second teenager with a weapon. How old is the little one? 16 years old? 15. It's young to be in the group. You already know the weapons, You know what it is. It's a kalash. We call it an AK. These are the bullets. They are bullets. You know what they do. It is with them This is a T. You find it everywhere: in the army, in the police... Everyone's got them. A long M4. For. Do you have a weapon for yourself? I don't have any personal gun. I fight with all weapons. To your eyes, at what age a person can fight in your group? I think there's no age to fight. You just have to know Age doesn't mean anything in the battle. So you do recognize that you have teenagers fighting for you? Who are not 18, or more? Yes, yes. It's the same in all ghettos. For example, when I was by the sea, wearing an assault riffle. Don't you think it's a little dangerous for such a young kid to carry weapon, and to be around the group? Let me tell you something. No army leader. will make unfavorable decisions. If the person is capable, he will trust him. The person you call a child There are children here. If they hadn't been trained, they would commit crimes When we get to arm children, This weapon is not there It is not there for anyone. It is in your hands. But if something happens, since then he can defend himself In reality, to have precise figures who would be in armed But according to Unicef, that deals that would be around controlled by militias, which of course that they will become but also be recruited or because the Aren't you scared of being judged by the justice because you used child soldiers, you're not scared of that? - Justice ? - Oui, justice. Is there justice in this country? If there was justice I wouldn't be there. This dean wouldn't be there. And you would if there was justice here. Don't talk about justice. They use force. We do the same thing. It doesn't matter We love our country, too. All the gangs love this country. These are men All the armed men of Haiti. I love my country deeply. I have the means to live. I have access, but no. Haiti is mine. This is where I want to live. It is not the people of Haiti It's rather the politicians of They are the ones who control the country. But when they decide when the state decides to arrange there will be many young people The one who holds He's simply looking for decent My gangster life is something because... I didn't plan it. I didn't want this life. I went to school. I developed skills. But living conditions in Haiti gave me no other choice. We have mouths to feed. We must eat. If we are hungry, we got to eat. We have wives and kids. Are we just going to stand there wasting their money? Whose kids study abroad, whose money is sitting in foreign whereas we barely have a grain of rice or a kernel of ground corn. Now think about it If it was you who lived in these I don't see who could remain It would be better that does not exclude armed groups. Because how are you going For the country to be perfect, You have to work with the Mafia. But as long as we suffer, nothing will change. I swore to die with my guns in my hand. I swore to die like this. As long as we live like this, As long as we live in this logic, I'll spend the rest of my life I'm ready to die with it. We stayed about two hours and at the time this video was released, control of the area I would also like to remind you that since the beginning more than 2500 deaths, injuries as a result of the fights And the United Nations serious violations That's the end of this video. If you want to understand how we worked on the ground especially the first exchanges when we met the gangs he made a behind the scenes to give you more details and images So I invite you to go see it as the backstage and reports I put a link in the description. I also highly recommend "away days of the reporter", who will soon release a series on different underground like the Fight Club in England, or the gangs in the favelas of Rio. In short, because I also put a link And finally, I have a fairly important which will change a lot of things on the channel So the next video that I was supposed to do So if you have any questions, put them in the comments. I will try to answer and I will also make Don't forget to subscribe! It really helps me a lot. And if you want to support me, See you soon!