Transcriber: Diana Khakimova Thanks for calling me It's really cool to be here. The good life. a whole lot of different things I have my own personal factors means to me and my family. One of those things is bicycles or rather people on bicycles. A symphony of human powered movement It's a large part of what I do. Promoting urban cycling This is the age of lists, of measuring, And it's interesting to see where the good life Not long ago, of world's richest countries, richest cities, Money was the key factor Now, things are much different Now we have stuff like which continues to baffle year after year I still don't get it. A lifestyle magazine Monocle has developed a world's a few years ago, of statistical parameters And this is the a -- It's not working. Gentelmen? -- The list of the world top twenty -- Most liveable cities for 2010. Now, I'm completely biased that any liveable city's worth its so great numbers of bicycles And if you look at these citiest -- You are looking at -- It's interesting to note including the top 8, all have of citizen cyclists Most of the rest of the cities to re-establish the bicycle as transport all around the world -- I didn't actually press that. But this really is a modern catchphrase It's as though we're trying to redefine and try to return to how they used to be were meant to be. One thing's for sure -- Can you tell me where to point this? (Danish) One thing is certain the bicycle The bicycle is back. Cities and towns around the planet to choose the bicycle and provide the infrastructure That was a teaser. It really is a no-brainer. It really is the most obvious things to do, the bicycle is the most the most powerful tool, in our toolbox for this rebuilding There couldn't possibly be anything standing Or could there? Damn! Welcome to the culture of fear. There are great many books and essays by people far more clever than I am. I can guarantee that. The German sociologist Ulrich Beck wrote, that once homosapience they become afraid. Probably doesn't mean that we're all scared But I did cut my finger and I've heard about bacteria today, The Norwegian philosopher that fear has become that feeling The cultural fear but the most potent this almost pornographic obsession Never before have we lived lives so safe as we do right now And yet the culture fear I don't know, I'm quite sure that the culture fear but it really is made that if there is something there's a long line of people Fear is lucrative. Fear is big business. One of the more odd, and perhaps, This is the thud guard helmet. thudguard.com I couldn't've made this up This is an actual product These are helmets &quot;should&quot; according to the people, in the home -- Sitting on their bums, playing in the living-room I think their slogan is 'learning They called all sorts of scientific facts -- For me this really is -- the ultimate example Is this really where we wanna be headed (Laughter) I don't know. Another example Apart from the Netherlands in which to ride a bicycle. so safe to do so So for me it was a bit bizzard of bicycle helmet promotion And when it started I knew nothing about it. This is what I was taught to do. To my surprise, it didn't take me that bicycle helmet doesn't have a very impressive Scientists, the scientific community for years, on the subject. Fifty-fifty, down the middle. if a bicycle helmet was there's no way you'd be anyway close there is simply not enough proof. Now, it's been over two and a half years and damn, I can tell you that right now. When you come from you know, reading scientific reports, But it is amazing, I mean, it's an ocean of science there're actually scientific studies is higher when you are and that you have 14% greater chance These are not things so much for showing us The way that these helmets are tested -- well, actually industrial design My son helped me out with this. From an industrial design perspective these helmets are designed, to protect the head from non-life threating impacts We can all hear that exludes so please, don't do that. Whether you're wearing it or not. The way that they're tested in They're tested only for impact They're not even tested And, actually, the test is nothing more than a simulation and hitting their head So, I thought, 'Wow' -- Well, you know, wouldn't that really make I was surprised to find out that pedestrians than people on bicycles do. You know, it's my amazement doesn't have any campaigns I was shocked. So, I made one for them -- The PDF is freely available for download, It works better in Danish, but it says, And, if it is a slippery slope then this is probably But the thing about the culture fear, They're a nuisance. and they can't get away of making So, I thought, you know, What about, hey, motorist helmets? Maybe motorists should wear helmets? Boy, was I amazed when I found out that motorists' helmets are actually I could've even made this up -- The Sweeds played with the idea, But in the late 1980s the helmet, the company, sold and produced it, In 2001, the University of Adealide They did so after the Australian Government that country could save up to $400 million a year reduced societal harm, if everybody inside the cars even with seatbelts and airbags -- Does anybody here own one? Have you ever seen them on sale Have you ever been offered a free one God, that might be logical Another teaser, sorry -- I've discovered -- well, I didn't discover, but in everybody buying their products, I've discovered that one of the other main promoters Even in this country. What I did discover was that the automobile industry And why? The bicycle is a real and immediate threat And the reason you've never been given is that the car industry won't touch them. And, you know, if -- They know that it would be a catastrophy &quot;You know what, driving a car is proven and we removed that false sense of security If word got out are killed in car accidents Over 40 000 If you think about that, taht's a world trade center But, no, no. People would stop buying cars, they might start taking public transport or, We can't have that. If we apply a logic which is not something so, that might be This is what we would be doing. Instead of telling the pedestrian and the cyclists, instead of, like, the campaigns placing the responsibility we would be attacking We'd see simple campaigns This is just one I made up, (Laughter) Speaking directly to the motorists, I mean I'm happy to say that, but, you know what, I drive less than I've ever had in my life. Once you start looking But this would be, we would see an idea health warnings on cars -- We would see legislation each side of the car has to include just like on packets of cigarettes. You know what the great thing is? Every single health warning applies directly to car traffic. We don't even have to write new texts, (Laughter) It's true. Okay, I made one up at the top left, This would have an amazing societal effect This would change behavior As it is now, all aroung the world, ignoring the bull the elephant in the china shop, Instead of trying to tame it, and sometimes it feels like on trying to tame the distructive capabilities Despite the oceans of science despite the whole catalogue of ideas Instead a war on bicycle is being waged. Cycling has become a bit of a bad brand For the first time in 125 years the public, and the newspaper above us here are, are focusing on the percieved negatives I mean, take 2008 as an example. This was a banner year for urban cycling Cycling levels were up everywhere Bicycle sales were up All of these things which is really the only country It was also the first year of hardcore Real emotional propaganda. The result in this country: bicycle sales fell 5%. The number of cyclists being counted entering the city centre in Copenhagen Over 10 000 fewer cyclists in Copenhagen. Those numbers haven't recovered yet -- We've seen in every country around the world with promoting bicycle helmets: In every region every country in the world and, even worse, legislated, if you really wanna people are being scared away life-extending sustainable zero carbon by making it look like We've seen it across the board in Sweden, And now here in Denmark. because this is where Cycling Federations And, hey, I know these people, They wanna see more people gettig on This is a campaign What a world of difference -- We cycle 30% less in this country If we still cycle that extra 30%, That's a conservative estimate. Because the health benefits of cycling We should be doing everything in our power to market it positively, Historically, traditionally, knowledge and wise men, tribal leaders, later by scientists These days it seems like really, a very small group on personal crusades projecting their And, you know what, But I am an optimist. This was a bit of Naomi Klienesque, but I've figured, hey it's a WikiLeaks week So let's just get it out there -- But I am an optimist. I just think that rationality, liveable cities, if these aren't ideas worth spreading This is one of my favorite quotes also my favorite son helping me out here. &quot;The steel horse fills a gap in modern life, but also to its aspirations. It was written in 1869. The bicycle is back, it never really went away, And not only is it a powerful symbol if we want it to be a powerful symbol of the good life So, I think we should just choose a little bit of common sense and I think we should let rationality Thank you very much. (Applause)