Wow, it used to be a rat's mouse Bro Wow, that's great, Puti again, that's Puti again, Bro, it's extraordinary , it's great, it's great, it's steady, it's steady, it's steady, it's steady, hold it, where did it come from? Oh, from the grill market, he's fishing now, this is a gorita for bait. Oh, when we get our new bait Again, coincidentally, this gorita is already in front, it's not Diel, but indeed we see this octopus, this is the octopus, wow, it's suitable for us to use as bait, it's like this anyway. Because of the rise and rise of trevally fish, this is the schedule for this time, we will go fishing again with Bung Dono and Usman Hopefully there will be good luck OK, let's fish here, where's the bait? D, we'll use octopus bait. Hah, where's this? Uh , hah, well, here's the bait, bro, let's take a tentacle that moves around a bit so that in the sea it moves around like this. Eat it first. Lus is chewed first by Lembe so that D Lembe Dono wants him to move around alive I really let him get chewed up Oh that's it, I'll just soften the meat inside Ah buung again first ouch eh there is adah utman starting to act we see utman is getting bigger again where B is not bad Ih don't follow Why do you follow the most Ih if Put doesn't follow ih kaput Tikus huh ei rat grouper Bro Wow great he he he huh great Don great Eh great Don great original genuine rat grouper this expensive grouper this back is not yet starting to exist Ih There 's something like this, it looks like it's big, it looks like it's this big, just use one handpick, which one is this? Hah, slow down, slow down, slowly, help him Usman, it looks like it's big, ih he he he he ih h Great, great, which dog Man eh, there's a fight, it seems like it's breaking up, it's breaking up, it's time to break up, Puti it's white and white and it's besant Wow, it's worth it, it used to be careful, it's steady, it 's good , so it doesn't get too hot from the sun there, it's amazing. It's amazing, my brother is all in pairs . in can there's more there's more there's more ma'am there's more there's more there's that again ih ih slow down slow down slow down slow down where she's white again white again right there disbanded again ih great Eh Puti again wi Puti again great uh genuine That's right He's disbanded again ih great He eh amazing Bung Doo open again Bung Doo ah Man there is there there is Usman Weh there is more there is there is just keep it there bro I'll shoot first Usman this eh eh white white again white again here he is great Watch out be careful Almost no cockroaches Almost Don't let it go , H, great, put it where the fish used to be . If you have it, eat this, use Geta like this, you like it the most, ah, start again, wow, don't play bluffing, because then take it away, it's a fish. Oh, pull it, Ik , the fish is safe, it's safe, it's still following Dono Oh far away Pung Bu Dono white again lag pu again white again s that's white again Mang extraordinary he extraordinary Dude do ei Watch out a Usman lift Man lift so it's the same as Bungi eh white again Okay extraordinary huh How many tails three tails four four EMP The two tails are the same and the cash goes back inside so it's not hot, OK, that's how far it goes. The roller, the roller, the roller, the roller, the reel, safe, it's safe , it's good to throw the tail, it's the one that's wagging, right? I'm the one that's wagging extraordinarily today Eh, steady, steady, steady pull it again, roll it, so it falls, pull the reel. Eh, put it back on. The octopus is still alive. Use the octopus, which is still alive. I'm tired of drinking coffee. Except I can't fish anymore. Pogot, what's that? Ah, you're pranking too, he's pranking, pranking too. I don't think you're really not being fooled. this is okay Don This is the original this is no longer a prank this is okay D that's right this is right oh right where should it be right there white right right again white again white again starting again ha uh after 1 hour we Paused it didn't go up and up now there's white again where Man Wih there Here turn Bub Bub again Bub again white again Wherever Man here he is white again sir extraordinary ehhhh eh eh it's good, just don't keep it on your thigh or it will move straight away peg it eh eh eh hello cash goes in we there Eh eh cash goes in watch Sin eh it's amazing for a moment then we'll spill the results He eh it's amazing today hah come on I'm awake it's already a pause again, if the fish are not in a row, that's what I said earlier. Unless it goes up and down, it gets live bait, if it's live bait, the term for bait is that we have a group too, Dar Berkuta. So they go around too, but this is because Ber doesn't have this live bait, whatever he sees, especially if G He likes it like that, eh eh eh Man hah Ih here first your roko later he's so and so ha Let me hold it still resting roko there Usman there Usman there Heh oh this this this this this this this is this uh eh steady usutman lift Usman Ei dispersed again Eh huh small fish today ni won't eat small fish Ih steady steady steady steady steady ah D here hold on hold on ah let go there are there are there are in a row Watch out for the propellers k these propellers R I don't know where this is R because du stem lag is amazing nah Usman take it below that C open D roll roll roll roll open where are your results D Oh roll first roll first where Uh he take it amazing This is today's result this is not so- s the name is Okay Don is still there still there is still here behind behind high five first high five first high five first eii great hey hey OK bada lalah let's cook this straight away wow it's amazing there's the fish we got earlier immediately executed at bungun then grilled- grill, burn, eat delicious and extraordinary , bro. Ah, there are no bones, it's meat. All the meat is prepared on fire by the angler himself. Where does this come from from Wajo market? Oh, from Wajo market, take the time to visit D Lal's hut once Wi is there, Sis, ma w ih great BR, this is a waste of food, eh, this is just an ordinary grilled fish dish, right? There's parendet too for a moment, oh there's fish in soup, it's also extraordinary, there's an angler. Man, it's already cooked, great , eat big, eat delicious again. OK, we're now on to the fish in Bungs sauce, which is already cooked. ready, here are the spices there, Sanya Kun, if the senyung 5000 is ready, don't play around. Wow, okay, this is ready, this is the last seasoning, the last number. OK, the menu is ready, with the words Bismillahirrahmanirrahim, come on, you are welcome. Why did you only give it like that, sorry for the one who burned it The one who fished, the one who burned him, the one who fished, apologize, brothers and sisters , gentlemen. Oh yes, yes, yes, the one who fished, I'm sorry if I took his head. sustenance means that you have eaten again, wei yes, okay, okay , okay, steady, steady, come on, sir, Bung Perdi, come on, Red Wine, yes, of course he is parende. Well, yes, you already know his taste in red wine, don't give him bones, he plays according to his body, this is meat, meat. There's that, Ferdi. Don't peek around. Brother, give me, bro. Ferdi is still tired. He's okay, yes, the grilled fish is really good , this is the chef's part, that's the chef's part, the chef's part is the chef, okay, okay, ready, but by the way, cameraman's part, don't forget to be there. Eh, that's great, suck it first, it's great