At the end of June 1994, the border An entire country, Rwanda, is the country's majority ethnic group, whose The most rapid genocide of the 20th 800,000 people methodically massacred moderate Hutus. Men, women In this flood of people crossing the regime and their accomplices Among them was this man, one of the main Hutu Before disappearing into thin air, he threatened to kill the journalist who But today, they need to show and prove it. Honestly, do you think they can bring them? You're paid too. I've had enough. What you ate is enough. One day, you're gonna die. You start taunting me up to this point. Colonel Bagosora's escape was short-lived. Arrested two years later in Cameroon, the International Criminal Court Today, many others are still at international justice is officially to be high-ranking officials. But beyond this handful of dignitaries, how are still at large? Some are hiding in Africa. Some have They live there freely, blending well uncover this. It took us six months to We discover that the widow of the former the genocide, now leads a quiet life. That a doctor, sentenced to life profession in our country as if nothing had happened. And then there's this former soldier, with his family, in the south of France, Interpol. All are presumed guilty, ignore them. March two thousand and ten. Sixteen years after the There are many places of remembrance, like in Murumbi, a region that Here, when the mass graves were discovered, show the horror. When he's in Rwanda, it's become a In France, he founded the CPCR, the For a decade, he has been probing It's the fight of his life. The machete. This baby almost looks like He spared no one. Ah, here it is. Here's the proof. From baby to old man, women, men, babies be total extermination. Alain Gauthier is also fighting this family-in-law, decimated For me, coming here is also a real justice, because those who are here today on display, there are people who did There are people who organized this justice must be a compulsory path. And on this long road, Alain Gauthier those responsible, in the hope It's a tireless quest that this school We represent the victims and we have to finally try the Rwandan genocidaires this is the most extraordinary crime no statute of limitations. continue to fight for Alain Gauthier is not Dafrosa, his wife, is at his side to bring justice to the victims, as they themselves put it. We live in obsession with this genocide. say, almost day and night. But I believe all. And nothing can or should stop us now. Is this choice also linked to the fact I can tell you that everything we I can't say anything else, it's with a lot of emotion even when I'm tired, I'm fed up, I do it for them. The story of Alain Gauthier and The young French teacher discovered of the African continent in the late become his wife. At the time, General Habyarimana majority ethnic group. The other ethnic group are the Tutsis. Between the two, an ancestral hatred. Long excluded from power, the Hutus jobs were forbidden. Ethnic origin was Throughout the country, A rebellion was organized. At its head Between Habyarimana, the Hutu, and Kagame, the Tutsi, the war would last for years. Until the Arusha Peace Accords called year was nineteen hundred and ninety-three. But this peace meant the return of refused. They became radicalized. fever pitch. On the evening of April sixth, nineteen plane was destroyed in mid-air by - The Minister of Defence is deeply the unexpected death of the Head of State, Hutu militiamen immediately set up Kigali. Here they are When they discovered the Tutsis, they In the space of a few hours, an entire was underway. One of the characteristics of the this genocide of proximity. Neighbor killed the wife. Sometimes, the children. quite terrible. Kigali, today. The presidential residence couple. An unofficial a few relics of the era still stand. This is precisely where it all began. In a strange irony of history, when the it was in the gardens of the residence crashing down. Sixteen years later, the debris of along the perimeter wall. It was here that the first massacre Just a few hours after the bombing, all the neighborhood's Tutsi neighbors Chantal is a miraculous victim. A few days before the massacre, her family in Kigali. That's what saved her. This was Agathe's home. Here, in the soldiers from the presidential guard. nine children. And all around, there The people here died without understanding fireball fall from the sky, and immediately massacred everyone. This is what the banana plantation In the whole neighborhood, only the Hutu families were spared. Apart from the residence staff who worked the presidential guard ventured here. Why did the presidential guard age Its supreme leader had just died in the the only one in power was Agathe, the about her responsibility Immediately after the president's death, give orders to the presidential guard. Of all these families, there is no one her name is Florence. She told Florence now lives far She agreed to receive us, to tell us presidential residence. She is the eyewitness to its destruction. Florence, there she is, walking painfully In the family home, there were sixteen and nephews. Today, she's alone. Agathe and I were good neighbors. She often invited us to the residence On Sundays, we went to mass together. She was very religious, you know. But what I can tell you is that, How did this good Christian woman let her She had all the power. When the presidential guard left the corpses of her family. The next day, the killers returned to Agathe Habyarimana's own nephew, Joseph, his cruelty. They dragged us out of the house There, before my very eyes, they cut up the bodies of mine into pieces, After a while, I remember saying to her. Listen Joseph, let me pray that God will He immediately hit me over I was bleeding so badly that for the She was behind it. She let it happen. As a neighbor and the If you had Agathe in front of What would I tell him? Kneel down and ask for forgiveness. On April 9, three days after the attack around the presidential residence, The widow of the assassinated head of evacuated all its nationals that day. A political gesture Mitterrand, to which a bouquet of flowers and the equivalent Agathe's initial needs. In 1998, the former First Lady chose the Paris region, she lives quietly with This is where we found her, where she tries to make herself forgotten. Agathe Habyarimana leads a not quite like the others. This Interpol arrest the result of an extradition request In France, Alain Gauthier's Collectif lodged a complaint against her for crimes against humanity. There is enough evidence to suggest role. Now, what role? It's difficult to role. Now, let's get on with the job. For its part, international justice, which genocidaires, has never prosecuted direct testimony. Because that's the hardest thing to Back in 2001, he was one of the prosecutors You have to be able to show that these the genocide, either because they gave they were aware of what was happening we can provide suspicions, we can only Agathe's case is very complicated from country on April 9th, the Of course, if new elements emerged proving in the first three days, it would Today, the testimony of Florence, the elements missing from It took lengthy negotiations with her agreed to meet us. It has to be said that the media. For this exclusive interview, We immediately wanted to know her feelings next door to the residence Massacres were reported Tutsi families, from Do you know the way out? I can't really stayed inside the house. I didn't Florence Muconda Level. Do you remember this lady? This is my aerosol Were you on good terms I tell you, friends, many Tutsi friends. years, years. His neighbors often came to the residence. New Year's Eve parties, Christmas parties, to the house. The children got on well with our my friends, could I have allow someone to hurt a friend? She says that the presidential I really can't tell you. I was inside the My children and People say that presidential guard You're exaggerating, gave orders to anyone. To hear her tell it, when her neighbors inside the house. Sheltered by her grief, she is Jean-Luc, her son, is involved in gardens of the residence The very place where To be honest, we can't confirm or deny witnessed any massacres I'd say she's systematically settled of the family. That, I'd say, is a tactic to do with it, I'm just a poor widow know anything, I didn't see anything. genocide. Behind this woman of power, say she's a rather worrying personality. A woman with two faces: today, a mother assassinated head of state, and before accused by her detractors of belonging business-minded clan of This small group includes Agathe's brothers For human rights organizations, it unleashed the genocide. She was its heart, its instigator. And these are the people who, to foment, even against President lax in relation to the Arusha Accords. the ones who say this, that really What do you think Akazou is? That's right, the people who tell it's a was never part of the case. I'm tired I looked at the Akazou members, How can I explain it I'm telling you that I've never Among the intimates who one man holds an important I think it's fair to say that he was the he was the wealthiest Hutu in Rwanda. He played a key role in financing militia that he imported hundreds of thousands of There is also evidence of their In the early 1990s, this also invested in with most of the Akazou members, he genocide, this radio Felicien Kabuga was never arrested. His capture is worth five million dollars. Mr. Kabuga, he was close to you. He too is part of the Akazou. So they say. They even say he was the Whether he's a financier, I don't know. can't know. I know that Two of our brothers are married The Habyarimana family may know where far as we'll get. Agathe prefers to stick A day of mourning in Rwanda. The In this Kigali memorial, Dafrosa's family to remember all those who were For Alain Gauthier, it's the The hills of Kibuye, in At least two hundred in this densely Some of the perpetrators of the genocide the Rwandan justice system But others managed to slip through the a genocidal policy. Among them, the region's Charles Twagira. When the killings began, he was in having ordered massacres It's in the Kigali prosecutor's office evidence that will lead to a trial. It's true that in our files, in the documents emanating from the irreplaceable documents. For this new case, the public prosecutor He also provided investigator already The aim was to deconstruct the If he talks about Twagira, Charles went straight Dr. Camille's family was. Right. Yes, so he handed them over and... He children and he killed them directly. Charles Twagira wouldn't have killed apparently a convinced Alain Gauthier's examination of The doctor was directly responsible colleague, Dr Camille. We're talking about Camille Calimo Abo, who was a doctor and director of the of Charles Twagira. Many witnesses accuse Camille Calimo Abo's wife and children. Doctor Camille is an So he's the one I'd like to meet. Three days before the was summoned to He was forced to hole up in the capital, in Kibuye, three hundred kilometers away. There's nothing he can do for them. Do you know Doctor Twagira well? Dr. Blam, a name often mentioned in the He was a German doctor present at the and a key witness. He saw the killings. He saw how my wife was killed. How my children were killed. Will the French try the That's what we're here for. You have to catch them. Catch the genocidaires! But we're going to ask Wolfgang Blam, we found him. He lives in the Frankfurt Traumatized by his experiences in never wanted to testify until now. He didn't want us to film his neighborhood, his home, his family. It was along this canal that our first meeting took place, about Charles Twagira and his behavior his appeal. That he killed with his own hand. He is a an important part of the genocide machine. Do you know where A friend told us that he has arrived in France. We had always hoped that he would be to know that someone so deeply implicated somewhere in the world. After investigating, we discovered Seine-Maritime region. We set up discreetly at The man has lived there for four years. He is not the subject of any international And when Charles Twagira leaves home, he's a resident like any other, anonymous. According to our information, he is To find out, head for the personnel office. Hello ma'am, sorry to bother you. I am in search of a former intern by previously worked at this place. He's in the emergency department. He's an emergency room doctor. So he does work here at Okay, thank you very much madame. Hello, medical emergency. I'm trying to an intern here. Yes, women's side, side today? Yes, yes, he is. Equipped with a hidden camera, Hours of waiting in the lobby, Yet it's at the end of this We enter, pretending In front of us, Charles Twagira appears. It's a confirmation. The Rwandan doctor is an In Rwanda, Alain Gauthier Today's target, Kibuye hospital. He has just learned that a It was his workers who made the One hundred and sixteen bodies have already There could be additional pits scattered yet undiscovered, bodies may lie. You see, it's right next to the hospital. the hospital and buried here. The only difference with the mass graves have the smell of death that we had It was the smell of death, of corpses, as if you'd swallowed the Well, well... There are the little you can see the There's probably a whole body there. You can see why it's important to Charles Twagira's new life When he's not donning a doctor's coat, he's preaching the good Here it is, we chose to talk to him. Good afternoon, madame. What time is the service? Around about Pastor Charles. Is he here today? Charles Twagira? Yes. Charles Twagira is here. Where is he today? I'd like to see him. Bonjour monsieur. Good morning, monsieur. word? Perhaps a little to I'm sorry to bother you, but you don't come to talk to you a little about Rwanda, testimony implicating you. In Kibuye, hospital. Is this true? Is it true that there are And there was Doctor Camille, whom Doctor Camille's family was killed. Yes. Some even say she In our homes. Now we're not going to start. I haven't... When can I see you? I'd like you to give me an interview. listen, let me know what Or do you end up somewhere Two o'clock. At 2 p.m., we meet on station Totale. At the rendez-vous point, Dr Twagira is here. But in the meantime, he's changed his mind. I don't need... I need to defend myself to journalists. If I'm accused in court, I'll answer. Our investigation into his alleged reason for this. Back to Kibuye, to the Most of the detainees here took part in the knew Twagira. For Alain Gauthier, these prisoners And that day, some former militiamen agreed Edmond was sentenced to fourteen Samson, the former hospital guard, murders confessed to, but Does Doctor Twagira, in your opinion, played a very important role Obviously, he coordinated There's a lot of testimony here. Of course he was in charge. He's a real criminal. He's the one who had You know, these people didn't kill with When the prisoners were called, One of the guards informed him of the Yes, we have to question him. Yes, we do. Ah yes. Ah! Well, yes, it's important. Is that the gentleman who's coming? The He was sentenced to Rwandan courts for And his personality is still popular among his former constituents. Like Charles Twagira, he The two men knew each other well. Hello. Hello. Are you Mr Karara? Yes. Ah, the do you know Mr. Twagira well? Yes. No, I don't. It depends What's important for us to know is what all we're interested in. On Twagira. Okay. So that's all we're interested in. Ok. We need to see how the There were groups who were active. There were people who were behind it. He's more behind the groups that carried out the massacre. And how do you explain the fact What happened in Rwanda is a very good, very nice. All of a sudden, It's a shame. He's got a high hand. The first mass massacre in Kibuye took a few days, ten thousand people arriving They were promised safety and tranquillity. On April 7th, ten days after they were all removed. The Tutsis took refuge in the stadium. protect them. The truth is that this was the best way exterminate them later. When Albertine arrives at the stadium, fled her village with her parents, Of this small group, she We were desperate, the militia surrounded escape was immediately shot. Dr. Blam, the German cooperating In one of the discussions with Mr. Twagira, I remember that I was when he said that he sees and considers threat to the population. He said that they are the At that moment, I realized that Twagira is part of the political group that believes in fact on the side of the genocidaires. First they attacked us with tear-gas all directions, nobody could escape. started firing into the crowd. They threw arms flying, and skulls bursting. It was surrounded by nothing but corpses. Badly wounded, she took advantage of to reach hospital a few days later. But instead of Dr who rules the roost. And the rules have been tightened. Medical staff are Worse still, they must denounce them to the militiamen. Fortunately, not all Like the Hutu nurse Albertine Miraculous, really, when I see That's how far I dragged I was here, I was on this bed. Was there any killing inside the hospital? Of course, they killed people every us down right into the rooms, in every could hide. There were many massacres in the hospital. There were a lot of them. Was Dr Twagira there at the time? Are you sure? He was there. After two days, someone called Delphine with us side by side. Delphine, that's her. again. She rebuilt They were armed with rifles, It was back and forth, all the time. We way it could have happened like that charge of the hospital. Of course the people in charge knew coming and going like clockwork. How the authorities? We showed Delphine the photos of He was the one We'd go in, kill people in the How many people died inside the hospital? A lot. Approximately how many? I don't know exactly, we killed every day. In Rouen, our insistence paid off. Dr. Twagira agreed to talk to us. On is categorical. He pleads not guilty. I asked that no militia enter the machetes. This was respected. Two, three, four days. No more than that. But why didn't you ask again later? It was posted on the door. I tried left and right. The staff stopped involved in these theories, because I respect for life. Dr Twagira ordered us to go Did Dr Twagira really say that? I swear. In Rwanda, some prisoners benefit from to collaborate with the justice system. after fourteen years in prison. His name of Dr Camille's family. And he knew Dr. Twagira well. It was here, a few meters from the for expatriates, that it all happened. Is this the house where you hid Beatrice? I used to live in this house in the her children. I supplied them every morning and At the time, I was the only one who Hassan agreed to return with Doctor Blame lived there. And in this house, there were also This is where Dr. Blame had Early one morning, the watchman from blames me for the fact that there are house next door where Beatrice screaming. Can't he come in? I told our child. We have a baby. No, no, it house where Beatrice was hiding. Well, I asked those people in front of in. They have to break in, or they have neighborhood. And I expected them to someone or some military authority. Doctor Twagira immediately ordered break the door down. When Blame pretended he didn't have door and get the cockroaches out. I was looking for help. I didn't take the murder of that woman. They broke the door of the house. It pulled it out, went in and pulled it in front of the door. We entered and headed for this room. where they were hidden. They were totally scared and didn't At this point, Twagira has no idea that But our questions become increasingly acknowledges his presence at the scene. When we dragged them out of the house, them. I can't say I intervene at my level, So I tried to save what was possible, the sake of cooperation, he couldn't innocent. They've done Doctor Blame was here. to spare the family. He said no, no way. We've got to get safety of the neighborhood I remember very well the words nothing more he can do. It's too late. She begged Dr Twagira to spare them. Let's believe we'll be saved. Touagira When they were dragged through the hospital still had the courage to look out the slaughtered in the pit opposite. Even a distance of fifteen I regretted not having been able to save But I couldn't. There was nothing I Despite the overwhelming testimony, Charles Twagira sticks It's a defense common to I bear no responsibility for the genocide. I have a clear conscience. A line of defense that comes It's always the same As soon as genocide occurs, it must immeasurable that no human conscience in it. If, one day or other, they begin to in the crime of which they are accused, maybe then, just the same, a little But it seems we're dealing with them. a complete conscience... that wipes out a few months of their lives. nine hundred and ninety-four is a Since nine hundred and ninety-four The gachachas, the country's people's guilty parties. Among them, Charles Twagira. He was convicted, but in absentia. This is Touagira's judgement. his indictment contains Conspiracy to commit genocide, preparation of genocide, organization and supervision of genocide, perpetration of genocide and inhuman acts. Twagira was sentenced to life imprisonment, Dr. Twagira, sentenced in his country, Alain Gauthier's collective has lodged justice has yet to hear it. Worse still, when Rwandans suspected let them go after just a few hours. This is what happened At Interpol's request, officer in the Rwandan He was wanted for genocide, war After just a few hours in police custody, For us, it is truly scandalous to see France today without being questioned for many months by the responsibilities are well known. Despite these events, the former Rwandan just moved to a different neighborhood, The former soldier now lives in the He too leads a discreet life with his guard at a local convenience store. A security jacket lieutenant-colonel I've heard a lot about your involvement meeting you so you can tell I won't really be available right now. As In northern Rwanda's Ruhengeri, Marcel We're in a historic Hutu stronghold In this region, the first battles against In nineteen ninety-three, Bivuga Bagabo program for the town's young people. In a suburb of Ruhengeri, He asked the people neighborhoods to look They said it was to join It was all false. All these people actually went Anyway, we've started training. One day, we were at the stadium He said, look each other in do you really believe that There were two Tutsis in the group, and that really scared me. Colonel Bivuga Bagabo added, I want just talking about the RPF rebel about all the Tutsis. In the days following the genocide, Ruhengeri is sealed off. The Interahamwe Despite the terror, a few Such is the case of this man. He is a in the town. One day, I saw Bivuga Bagabo stop The militiamen who were there all went They saluted him as one of their acquaintances. They tell they were working together. The militiamen had guns and clubs. were Tutsi, they would stop And those they arrested, They took them away, but we don't know militiamen were local guys. I could recognize their faces. Most Others are not in prison. Ruhengeri has its own prison, Our negotiations with the A man will be brought to us. He's a killer. He's serving a life sentence. His accusations against I know he's one of those who planned Why do you say that? He always explained to us that we had the enemy from within. He Things have changed in Toulouse. Hello from Marcel Bivuga Bagabo I'd like to call you about I suggest either June 7th or 12th for the A crossroads in the center of Before taking us to a local presbytery. In front of our camera, the former soldier I don't feel involved in the genocide, I don't have any remorse, insofar as I conscience, in my soul and conscience, I have nothing to be blamed for. And yet, as we have seen, a witness recruited and trained militiamen. It's never happened, I've Have you ever been to the Ruhengeri Never. But the most serious accusation against Appeal massacre. More than a hundred One woman escaped the At the time of the events, Here she is at the Court of Appeal. As in the rest of the country, the strategy Tutsis are grouped together, supposedly exterminate them. It was the gendarme who was in charge they controlled the whole area, the car, they were always on patrol, there right up to us, enter the courtyard One evening, when I got out of here, one that they were planning He let me out discreetly, I fled, leaving all the others behind. Bizimana the killer took part He is unequivocal about There was a meeting one It was during this meeting that they who had taken refuge Who gave this order? Who gave the order? It He was even the one who gave us the other guys to help us. What happened at the I had gone to the front and I learned about it on my return. that's when I learned what had Is it good that he distributed the supplied us when we ran out of ammunition. I never gave weapons to militiamen. Please tell me if you know this man. He came to Ruhengeri prison. Was Marcel behind it all? Yes, he was. Did he come to see you Yes, he came. When he left, he And when we got back to the gate, congratulate us. He brought us cases of They accuse you distributed weapons were rewarded in money, in Rwandan Its all a lie? It's really fun to hear that, but it's also tragic insofar as because that's not In Paris, the lawyers of the collectif time to study this case thoroughly. they've been waiting Perhaps the scandal is even more blatant prosecution are obviously present. more or less proven played an active level of the hierarchy, who is the and an extradition request. At the same time, we have So, as far as he's concerned, all the And nobody does anything about it. To date in France, twenty complaints have And some of the alleged have not even been heard. There is absolutely no doubt in my mind that there was not the on the part of the public authorities, regardless of political persuasion, for these matters as they should have been. France It has the competent police to do gendarmerie to do so. And it hasn't. So, if you like, when to do it and we don't do it, it's childishly obvious. At the other end of France, The Rwandan genocide. they know they'll never get out. Too many victims, too many killers and a justice system that does nothing or very little. We're not out of the woods yet, because far as justice is concerned. For victims, this is a and I expect France, the French justice the open, so that we can at least revisit loved ones. That, too, is the purpose of a trial.