This February of 2021, a major winter storm setting all-time records for low temperatures One of the biggest impacts of the storm happened suffered extended outages of electricity and It was one of the worst winter weather events impacts that will take years to unfold. When disaster strikes, the flurry of political difficult to understand what really happened. This is especially true for the complex systems most people really need a little more context news story, but a little more boiled down electrical engineers on twitter. So - for the first time ever on this channel, event. This is a developing story, and we're still happened during the storm. But, I've received a lot of requests for some clarity and technical knowledge to elevate I'm Grady and this is Practical Engineering. Today's episode is the story of the 2021 Before diving into the chronology of events, some important technical topics. I actually have a series of videos explaining so check that out if you want to learn more. A wide-area interconnection, which is the to the number one problem of the supply and There aren't many feasible ways to store most part, the supply and demand have to be Electricity is produced, transmitted, and Managing those ebbs and flows is a very difficult and users are connected together, smoothing more predictable) and the supply (making it facilities). Interconnection increases the efficiency and majority of Texans are served by a single I'll be referring to it as the Texas Power Just because there are so many power producers there is no volatility in supply and demand. These are some example demand curves on the You can see that demand is always changing When power demand drops due to mild weather generators to shut down. Otherwise, the frequency of the AC power will When demand spikes, we need generators spun Otherwise, the extra load will bog down the AC power will fall below 60 hertz. The consequences of the AC frequency deviating in the entire system is magnetically coupled. If parts of the system lose synchronization, the grid can tear themselves apart. Because of that, most parts of the grid (including trip to isolate equipment if the frequency The breakers in your house monitor electrical If you plug in too many things to one circuit, These work the same way except they monitor And unlike in your house where restoring power don't turn on and off with a flip of the So, matching supply and demand to maintain of managing the power grid. In Texas, the entity in charge of this task of Texas. This is a non-profit corporation with board of the electricity market from generators ERCOT's job is to oversee the entire system. They don't own or operate any facilities generation facilities when to start and stop ERCOT also manages scheduled outages. Owners have to have approval from ERCOT before Finally, ERCOT manages the wholesale market the transactions between power sellers and The week before Valentine's day 2021 had Texas, but as the weekend drew near, the forecasts be extraordinarily cold. On February 8, a full week before things really public communications about very high expected They canceled or delayed approval for a large much electrical infrastructure as possible storm. They worked with the Texas Railroad Commission, and gas industry, to increase the priority They also worked with the U.S. Department plants to temporarily exceed their emission electricity. All this to say, the folks managing the power the system and had already started working When the storm did hit on Valentine's Day, Three major facts to illustrate this point: This figure from the National Weather Service for three historical winter weather events The one on the right is the 2021 event. Essentially the entire southern U.S. had average or 15 degrees Celsius below normal. All-time low temperature records were set It was the coldest many places had practically The next point which you can also see in this The storm had significant impacts across the Finally, the duration of frigid temperatures This figure from the National Weather Service below freezing for more than 7 continuous That might not sound like a lot to those of respite. But, in most parts of Texas, that is unheard The state started Sunday with about a quarter of service, mainly due to weather the week These outages were about half wind power and Even with that lack of capacity, as night winter peak electrical demand of nearly 70,000 The previous peak was 66,000. Everyone in the state was running their heaters As the evening continued, though, it became of electricity available on the grid may not An advisory was issued that electrical reserves Not long after that, generation facility after the capacity to meet the high demand. Texas has a diverse portfolio of power generators. The largest segment of that is natural gas The second segment is wind turbines at about The rest of the generation fleet is made up and solar farms. This graph shows the outages of each generation You can see that wind and natural gas make type of power plant was spared during the The most important part of this figure is Plant after plant went offline to the tune 8 hours. All the details are still coming out about we know that went wrong. Natural gas wells and pipelines are particularly Not only does a gas stream contain water vapor can also combine with hydrocarbons to create above freezing. Combine this with the fact that many roads it was nearly impossible for some gas suppliers That despite the fact that the wholesale price to more than 100 times its normal price due competing with residential homes that use At that price, suppliers were doing essentially customers, but it just wasn't enough. Or, in some cases, it was enough, but the plants with such a high cost for fuel. But it wasn't just gas power plants that Wind turbines were shut down due to icing. Solar panels were covered in snow. One of the few nuclear units in Texas tripped its water supply. Basically, the entire system was ill-prepared Texas does have a few connections to other during emergencies, but those grids were suffering electricity to spare. This graph shows the total outages during With that huge spike of generators going offline had nearly half of its total capacity gone demand on record. Without any remaining reserve of resources, and demand in sync: shed load. This is the technical term for what is essentially words, disconnecting customers) to reduce Here's a simplified version of how it works: need to take X megawatts off the grid. Those megawatts are distributed roughly evenly like Oncor, Centerpoint, CPS Energy, Austin load. Each operator has a plan in place for how required. It's not something they decide on the fly. Certain circuits critical to public health The other non-critical circuits are usually intervals. That way the inconvenience of lost service service area. Of course, in many places during the storm, And, this graph is the key to why. As more and more resources tripped offline grid began to drop. ERCOT continued ordering additional load to with both the rising demand from the cold At about 1:50 AM, the frequency fell below It doesn't sound that significant, but this Power plant controls are set to automatically hertz for more than 9 minutes. In such a situation, as each generator trips, just about every circuit breaker on the grid Four minutes and 37 seconds is all that separated Without the urgent action to continue shedding without power in Texas a month later. That's because recovering from a complete power grid, is an immense technical challenge. So much equipment would need to be inspected, by the collapse. Only then could we start bringing generators maintain balance between supply and demand If anything goes wrong during a black start trip to protect the equipment and you have I am not an economist, but the energy market do my best to summarize the key points here. Unlike other markets that pay generators to electricity market in Texas is energy-only. That means if you put power on the grid, you You get no extra points for having generation The only reason it's feasible to invest of wholesale electricity. When demand is high, the price goes way up. In theory, this incentivizes generators to their facilities are up and running during in plants that can spin up during these times the energy scarcity. This type of price model also favors intermittent which would struggle to compete in a market While it normally varies between $30 and $50 electricity price went up to the cap of $9,000 that high for days. The result was that providers spent more money normally be spent in 4 average years. That's with the extreme load shedding that prices that some utilities paid for natural Most energy users won't see those massive That's because nearly every retail provider electricity to their customers, bearing the a wide variety of financial tools and long-term volatility. Prudent planning can only take you so far one utility has already filed for bankruptcy due. Other retail energy providers used a different pass the risk on to their customers by offering a monthly fee. The idea is that some users may prefer to usage when rates are high and shifting usage Unfortunately, many of these customers were volatility of the wholesale energy market are many reports of residential energy bills During the peak of the event, ERCOT ordered That's the equivalent of turning off half And the load shed orders lasted for three to the end of the 18th. What should have been rolling outages couldn't have any non-critical circuits on their system The result was that millions of Texans were without heat or light during one of the coldest My house lost power in the middle of the second Fahrenheit (6 degrees celsius) that morning house. And, we were the lucky ones. Many were not so fortunate to have friends roads clear enough to safely make the trek. The selection of which circuits were left to many. Water utilities started losing service, both available for pumping, reducing the availability swaths of the population. Even though we had avoided the catastrophe a crisis. Many lives were lost, and the economic impacts I have my own opinions about what could have storm and by whom, but this is not the place. My goal with this video is to try and summarize is approachable by people who don't have the power grid. Many are still recovering from the storm and Please feel free to share your thoughts and All I ask is that you please be kind and respectful Thank you for watching, and let me know what