This, at first glance, is just a smartphone. But once you know what's inside, it's so much more than that. What really changed was what was at the heart of it, the microprocessor that was designed It's at the center of tensions between the world's The phone, made by represents a breakthrough by Beijing as it tries to escape Washington's and establish a If those US controls had been successful, then a smartphone as advanced as this simply should not be possible China now is more capable than ever of building advanced technologies. And it worried US officials who are more concerned going into military equipment It left them wondering how exactly did China do it? US Secretary of Commerce in late August was supposed that has set China and the US at odds with each other on everything from geopolitics to trade. Her department has spent the past to buy or manufacture needed to fuel the upcoming technology revolutions. US hawks say it's about restricting The Chinese side say it's more nation's economic growth. There is no room to negotiate when it comes to protecting Her visit was quickly The Mate 60 is made to compete But unlike the iPhone, didn't get a splashy launch event. Instead, it was quietly It still managed to sell out within hours. What it made the timing of that device look like was though that Beijing was trying to send a significant signal to the US to say, "Hey, look, you've taken all of these steps, you've tried to hold us back, but here we are, this is what we can do." My colleagues in Asia commissioned what's called a teardown. Literally, you pull the phone apart and then you point a microscope and other pieces of technology at During the process, we found out that Huawei's new smartphone is powered by a self-designed chip manufactured by SMIC. SMIC is China's biggest chip maker, a contract manufacturer designed by other firms such as Huawei. And that shows that the two companies are now making certain progress in their semiconductor capabilities. The chip industry distinguishes chips in nanometers or billionths of a meter. That's about half the diameter of a DNA double helix. Basically, the smaller you the better you can If you're looking at Samsung's latest Galaxy or obviously Apple's iPhone, these devices are going to be based upon chips that are using three nanometer technology. US export controls were tech capabilities 8 to 10 years But the Kirin 9000s chip found demonstrated that it may only the world's most advanced technology. This chip was made with seven nanometer production and that is a lot closer to where the than the US had been hoping. So how did Huawei In recent years, most advanced chips And there's one single company TSMC. In the past, the Huawei unit chips that it delegated The US sanctions stopped that. China does seem to be able to find its way to find alternatives when there is a lack of Western technologies available. The single most important for making the most advanced chips extreme ultraviolet lithography It took decades to develop and each one costs more than $100 million. They're able to etch patterns into chips Only one company in the Dutch firm ASML. ASML hasn't been allowed to export its EUV machines to China. Never. It has been allowed to a different type of technology, It was thought that by basically limiting them to that type of technology that they'd never get What we've found and this chip would appear to indicate, is that actually they were able to squeeze the capabilities of this DUV machinery to get way more advanced lines in those pieces of silicon than the US had hoped. Bloomberg reporting actually use some of these older DUV But the key question is at scale and efficiently enough In fact, the reason the have had more to do with supply, It also means it may be below seven nanometers. I was obviously, I don't know what you know, when I saw The only good news, if there is any, is we don't have any evidence seven nanometer at scale. On what's called the China hawk side of the equation, this is the last chance that America from access to advanced technology. Some Republican lawmakers are now calling for the Biden administration to cut off Huawei and SMIC from American technologies completely. In the short term, there's likely to be a degradation of their capabilities. But if you look at this from a long-term perspective, you've given them every, every incentive in the world to China remains the biggest semiconductor consumer, and if the companies like Intel and Nvidia loses this major market, that means that they could generate significantly less revenue and hurt their ability to continue to innovate and keep the US ahead of China. Chinese spending plans have been widely reported to be That's three or four times of a major chip maker like TSMC. Given that kind of capital, there is a chance that they will get to advanced capabilities over time.