- This is the most dangerous one that young mathematicians are warned not to waste their time on. It's a simple conjecture that not even the world's have been able to solve. Paul Erdos, a famous mathematician, said, &quot;Mathematics is not yet ripe Here's how it works. Pick a number, any number. Seven? Good choice. Okay, we're gonna apply two rules. If the number is odd, we So three times seven If the number is even, we divide by two. So 22 divided by two is 11. Now, we keep applying these two rules. 11 is odd, so we multiply Even, divide by two, 17, odd. Multiply by 3, 51, add 1, 52, even. Divide by two, 26, still even. Divide by two, 13, odd. So we multiply by 3, 39, which is even, so we divide by two, 20, divide by two, 10, Multiply by three, 15, add one, 16, divide by two that's eight, Now, one is odd, so we which equals four. But four goes to two, goes to one, so we're in a loop, and Now, the conjecture is this: every positive integer, will eventually end up in This is commonly called after German mathematician, who may have come up with it in the 1930s. But the problem has many It's also known as the Ulam conjecture, Kakutani's problem, Thwaites conjecture, Hasse's algorithm, the Syracuse problem, and simply 3N+1. Why is 3x+1 so famous? - Among professional mathematicians, maybe it's not famous but infamous, in the sense that if someone that they're working on it, then there's something wrong with them. (laughs) - [Narrator] The numbers are called hailstone numbers, because they go up and down like hailstones in a thundercloud, but eventually, they all fall down to one, or at least we think they do. You can think of the numbers as representing the height So a number like 26 would start And if you apply 3x+1, it rises up as high as 40 meters. And, in total, it takes So 10 is called its total stopping time. But take the very next number, 27, and it bounces around all over the place. In fact, it climbs all As an altitude, that is before it too falls back to the ground. In total, it takes 111 steps and end up in the four, two, one loop. The paths that different even numbers right next to each other. So how do you even start to Well, honestly, mathematicians struggled. - People just decided that this was something to slow down U.S. science, and it was doing a good job at it 'cause everybody's sitting and making no progress that you can tell a school of children. - [Narrator] Jeffrey Lagarias is the world authority on 3x+1. - The first time I met him and he pulled me aside and Don't work on this problem. If you want to have a career, do not start spending or publishing any papers about this. Do real math for a while - [Narrator] Alex He and Yakov Sinai looked at the paths of Were there any patterns? But obviously all of them ended up at one. But what about the paths The pattern is randomness. Here is the sequence of a The graph peaks and then drop so low that you can't really see But if you take the logarithm, you find this wiggly graph It looks like the stock And this is no coincidence. Both are examples of That means if you take the log the fluctuations are random. It's like flipping a coin each step. If the coin is heads, the line goes up, tails, it goes down. 3x+1 is just like the random Over long-enough periods, the stock market tends to trend upwards, while 3x+1 trends down. Another way to analyze 3x+1 is by looking at the in a sequence. Here are the hailstone as the seed. And we can count up how many how many start with a two, how many start with a three, We can do the same thing for the sequence that starts with four, and for the sequences that Again, for each sequence, we're just counting up how many numbers start with each digit, one through nine, and adding that to our histogram. If you keep doing this eventually the histogram For the first billion sequences, you'll find one is by far the 30% of all numbers start with one, around 17.5% start with and the frequency decreases Fewer than 5% of all the Now, this pattern is not unique to 3x+1. It actually comes up everywhere, from the populations of countries, to the value of companies, all the physical constants just to name a few. The distribution is and it is even used to detect fraud. If all the numbers on obey Benford's law, then, well, you're probably being honest. If not, you may be hiding something. In elections, Benford's law can be used to spot irregularities, though you have to apply it correctly. Benford's law works best span several orders of magnitude as they do for 3x+1. But Benford's law can't tell us whether all numbers will end up in the four, two, one loop or not. For that, we need a Now, at first glance, it seems strange that when you apply 3x+1, all numbers should end up at one. I mean, consider that of odd and even numbers, but odd numbers are more than tripled, while even numbers are only cut in half. Therefore, it seems like should grow, not shrink. But here's the catch. Every time you multiply and then add one, it will and that means the next So odd numbers are not They're increased by a factor I'm neglecting the plus one because it's insignificant And 3/2 is actually the most an odd number can grow in one step. Think of the path from one to the next odd number. After multiplying by three and adding one, you have an even number. And 50% of the time, dividing by two brings But a quarter of the time, before you get to the next odd number. So, for a quarter of numbers, the next one in the sequence will be 3/4 of its initial value. An 1/8 the time, you can divide by eight before getting to the next odd number, and 1/16 of the time, you If you take the geometric mean, you find, on average, to to the next one, you which is less than one. So statistically speaking, 3x+1 sequences are more Take 341 for example, multiply by three and which you can divide by two and then divide by two again, and again, and again, and again, 10 times in total until One way to visualize these is simply to show how each number connects to the next one in its sequence. This is called a directed graph. It looks like a tree or a that flow into each other. If the conjecture is true, it means that every single number is connected to this graph. Every tiny stream all eventually flows into the Some mathematicians have by rotating the graph at each number; anticlockwise if it's an odd number, and clockwise if it's even. And then you end up with a structure that looks like a coral or seaweed. And by adjusting the degree of rotation for odd and even numbers, you can create these beautiful, Now, there are two ways the There could be a number that starts a sequence of numbers that grows to infinity. For whatever reason, it doesn't obey the same numerical gravity as all of the other numbers. Another possibility is there that forms a closed loop. All the numbers in this loop would be unconnected to the main graph. But thus far, no loop or sequence that shoots off And not for lack of trying, mathematicians have tested by brute force every single number up to two to the 68. That's 295,147,905,179,352,825,856 We know, for certain, that every eventually comes back down to one. We have tested nearly and none of them disproves the conjecture. In fact, given this information, mathematicians calculate that any loop other than four, two, one must be at least 186 billion numbers long. So, it seems pretty likely but this doesn't prove it. One way mathematicians is by making a scatterplot with all the seed numbers on the x-axis and a number from each seeds Now, if you can show that there is a number that is well then you have proven because whatever number you pick, you know it will at and that smaller number as and so on down to one, meaning the only way any sequence can end is in the four, two, one loop. This has not yet been shown. But, in 1976, Riho Terras was able to show that almost all Collatz sequences reach a point below their initial value. In 1979, this limit was reduced with almost all numbers going to less than X And then in 1994, it was further lowered to less than X to the power of 0.7925. In this case, the term almost all numbers has a technical mathematical definition. It means that as the go to infinity, the fraction that end up Then in 2019, one of the world's greatest Terry Tao, was able to show 3x+1 obeys even stricter criteria. He showed almost all than any arbitrary function f of x so long as that function goes to infinity as x goes to infinity. But the function can rise So, log x is an example, or or log, log, log, log x. What this means is, you can guarantee that there somewhere in its sequence. In a public talk he gave &quot;This is about as close as one can get to the Collatz conjecture This is an impressive result, So why can't we prove the conjecture true? Could it be because it's not true? I mean, everyone is which means almost no one is - It had happened to where there was something that I was trying for and I couldn't get it to work. And then I found a counterexample, and then I realized what should have been. And then a month later, I Maybe we should be spending more energy looking for counterexamples - [Narrator] I mean, grows all the way to 9,232? Here is a plot of seed with the largest number plotted on the y-axis. The y-axis stops at a 100,000, but not all numbers can The seed 9,663, for example, And as yet, no one has proven why a number couldn't just And it would take only one or some set of numbers not connected to the main graph. As far as we know, there is But something strange happens if you include negative numbers. Applying the same 3x+1 rules as before, there is not one loop, not two loops, but three independent loops of numbers. And they start at low Why should there be disconnected loops on the negative side of the number line, but not on the positive side? Now, one of the most supporting the conjecture that almost all numbers have that is arbitrarily small. But proving that almost all isn't the same thing as How many numbers between one The answer is 10. So, 10% of numbers up to How many numbers between one The answer is 31. So only 3.1% of the numbers up And the higher you go, the such that in the limit, you could say almost all numbers are The fraction of numbers that are not perfect squares goes to one as X goes to infinity. And yet we know there are an infinite and we know exactly where they are. Now, we've tested by brute force all numbers up to two to the 68, and they all obey the Collatz conjecture. And you might be thinking that, a counterexample by this point. But on the scale of all numbers, I mean, the Polya by George Polya asserted that the majority up to any given number have an The conjecture was eventually proven false by C. Brian Haselgrove in 1958 when he identified a counterexample. What's remarkable is the was 1.845 times 10 to the 361. That's some 10 to 340 times bigger than all the numbers checked for 3x+1. One way to think about 3x+1 is as though it's a simple The seed number is the So in this picture, two to the 68 is simply an input tape 68 squares long. You can think of them as or black and white squares. Saying the machine has up to this 68 square taped down to one should not give you a lot of confidence that it will do so for all inputs. In fact, it's fairly simple to calculate a number that shows any arbitrary behavior you But if you want a number that five consecutive times, you If you want a number that 10 times in a row, or you can easily calculate those numbers. But after the finite section you specify, you have no more control. And every that has ever been If there is a counterexample, it's virtually impossible And the space of all possibilities is too big to search - Two to the 1,000 is So, if we're gonna find it, we have to find it by and not by guess and check. I had been on team 3x+1 for 20 years. And then this point of view, I realized that, what do we really know? It's very hard to prove And so, could it be that to prove this thing because And two to the 60 is And even the statistical and not evidence for the non-existence of a divergent trajectory - Of course there is another option, and that is that we'll never know, that the problem is undecidable. In 1987, John Conway created It was a mathematical machine And he was able to show this which means it can do anything but it also means that it's a chance that the machine and so doesn't give you an output. And this does not prove that 3x+1 is also subject but it is possible that we may never prove the Collatz - You're gonna be taught in school that we know a bunch of They're all lies. Here's this stupid little problem. Come on, really we can't solve this? Really? You know, it just shows that math is hard. If anything, it shows that we can solve are miracles. We have no right to have solutions to all of these other problems. - For my whole life, I've thought of numbers as full of patterns, But what I'm realizing only now is just how peculiar numbers really are. You can see this most clearly From a simple mathematical operation comes something intricate, and, thus far, intractable to us. Do all numbers connect to the structure, or is there some unique filament, that doesn't connect to any of this, that runs off to infinity? And why is it so hard to tell? I think that's why Paul Erdos said, &quot;Mathematics is not yet ripe (gentle music) What I love about 3x+1 is it's a problem almost and play around with. And actually trying to figure is the best way to learn, which is why I subscribed to Brilliant, the sponsor of this video. Now, recently, Brilliant have For example, here is a great lesson on the Pythagorean theorem. So, you don't just remember the formula, but you really understand what it means. Now, Brilliant is a website and an app designed to get you thinking deeply by engaging you in problem-solving. It's one thing to read through a textbook and think that you get it, but it's quite another and actually test yourself as you go, and Brilliant curates the experiences so they get more and more There's always a helpful that takes your understanding I'd highly recommend their course on mathematical fundamentals, which now has even more interactivity and it has topics that are and algorithm fundamentals for It's great to have a resource like this to inspire you to learn I try to start off my day by challenging myself with Brilliant. And so if you'd like to join me and a community of 8 go to brilliant.org/veritasium. I will put that link So I wanna thank Brilliant and I wanna thank you for watching.