- Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science for everyday life. [upbeat rock music] I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, my guest is Dr. Wendy Suzuki. Dr. Suzuki is a professor of at New York University and in the area of learning and memory. Her laboratory has contributed fundamental textbook understanding of how brain areas such as the hippocampus, which how the hippocampus and to take certain experiences so that we can use that Dr. Suzuki is also an in the realm of science. A few years back, she had a TED talk that essentially went viral. If you haven't seen it check it out in which she using exercise as a way to And on the basis of that she reshaped her laboratory like meditation, that we can do with our can allow us to learn faster, to commit things to memory longer, and, indeed, to reshape in a variety of settings. As such, I am delighted to is now not only running a but she is the incoming at New York University. And of course she was for her many talents, but of her program, she to incorporate the incredible and other behavioral practices for improving stress to optimize student performance. Today, you are going to get access to much of that information so that in your daily life, as well. Dr. Suzuki is also an author The most recent one is entitled &quot;Good Anxiety: Harnessing the Power &quot;of the Most Misunderstood entitled &quot;Healthy Brain, Happy Life: &quot;A Personal Program to Activate your Brain &quot;and Do Everything Better.&quot; And while that is admittedly I will remind you that she is one of the preeminent memory and has been for quite a while, so the information that is both rich in depth and By the end of today's discussion, you will have learned from of knowledge about how how they are lost, and you of tools to apply for your to remember better, and in the ways that best serve you. Before we begin, I'd like to is separate from my teaching It is, however, part of my zero-cost-to-consumer and science-related tools In keeping with that theme, of today's podcast. Our first sponsor is Athletic Greens. Athletic Greens is an all-in-one vitamin, mineral, probiotic drink. I've been taking Athletic so I'm delighted that they're The reason I started taking I still take Athletic is that it meets all my and probiotic needs. In fact, whenever people ask one supplement, which I tell them Athletic Greens it covers your base of vitamins, it also has important adaptogens, digestive enzymes for gut health. All of this is very that gut health and the is very important for things and also contributes to With Athletic Greens, you're And of course you need and healthy diet that's right for you, but by taking Athletic you can be sure that there or deficiencies in your vitamin, mineral, or probiotic needs. I mix mine with water and or lime juice, I personally If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athleticgreens.com/huberman to claim a special offer. They'll give you five free travel packs plus a year's supply of vitamin D3 K2, both of which are also vital for immediate and long-term health. So once again, if you go to you can get a special offer to make it easy to mix up Athletic Greens while you're in the car Plus, they'll give you the Today's episode is also InsideTracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in for the simple reason that your immediate and long-term from a quality blood test. And nowadays with the you can also get insight what your biological to your chronological age. And of course your that really matters. With InsideTracker, there's and the advantage is that while and DNA tests out there, and DNA tests come also with a platform, meaning a website platform exactly what you could to adjust the numbers on metabolic factors, and lipids, and so on. It's a little popup window, it points to nutritional, supplementation, and behavioral regimens to put those numbers in the If you'd like to try InsideTracker, you can visit insidetracker.com/huberman any of InsideTracker's plans. That's insidetracker.com/huberman Today's episode is also Blinkist is an app that has each condensed down to just 15 minutes of key takeaways for those books. I love reading books from front to back. I like the actual physical book. I'm sort of old-fashioned in that way. And I do also listen to audiobooks. It's very rare that I don't Nonetheless, I like to revisit I also like to write down key sometimes even before I listen So I don't mind spoiling the non-fiction, generally the most valuable knowledge from them. So I'll often listen to a then the full-length book, or sometimes the full-length book, and then the Blinkist 15-minute version. Either way, Blinkist is a great and to extract the best from those books. I've used it for, for instance, Matt Walker's &quot;Why We on why we sleep as well as Tim Nassim Taleb's &quot;The Black With Blinkist, you get or listen to a massive It really is a treasure Right now, Blinkist has a special offer just for Huberman Lab Podcast listeners. If you go to blinkist.com/huberman, you can get a free seven-day trial and 25% off a Blinkist premium membership. Once again, go to a seven-day free trial and 25% off. And now for my discussion Wendy, great to see you it's been a little while. - It's been a while, so thank you so much for having me. - Yeah, delighted. I'd like to start off by and then I'd love to chat discovering how exercise and what people can do and brain function generally. - Yes. that are not familiar, maybe the basic elements of memory, a few brain structures, perhaps. - Sure. when I, for instance, this mug of tea is pretty unremarkable. But the fact that now I don't know that I'll Maybe I will, maybe I won't. So what happens when I that it's something special - Yeah, well, I like to that make things memorable. Number one is novelty. If it's something new, the very first time we've seen something or experienced something, our attentional systems draw us to that. And when you are paying that's part of what Second is repetition. If you see that cup of and every single time you do an interview you talk about your cup of tea, That's just how our brains Third is association. So if you meet somebody new that knows lots of people that you know, so you and I share many, many, many, many people that we both know. It's easy to remember, it's especially if you were met before, we have met And then the fourth one So we remember the happiest and the saddest moments of our lives, and that also includes That is the interaction between the amygdala, which is lots of emotional, of situations, but those threatening, surprising kinds of that information and makes called the hippocampus work better to put new long-term So that, in fact, is the key this structure called the hippocampus. - Fantastic, so novelty, and emotional resonance. - Could you tell us a bit I think, at least for my generation, well, I'm a neuroscientist, but for I think they first heard from the movie &quot;Memento.&quot; - Oh yeah, yeah. says hippocampus, and for those of you that haven't seen that movie, it's a bizarrely constructed movie, but an interesting one, But even as a neuroscientist, sometimes I'm perplexed at Maybe you could, if you would, step us through kind of what it looks like, maybe because unlike vision, most of my career on, where we know, okay, the eye does this part, and and the cortex does that a little perplexed about And I've read the textbooks but I'd love to get the update. What are the general as a structure and its function? What do you think everyone, should know about the hippocampus? - Absolutely, so let's The word hippocampus means seahorse. It is shaped, the structure is shaped, like a kind of curlicue Everybody, including it's a beautiful structure. It is visually, anatomically beautiful with these kind of intertwining And I think that's one of the who were the very first because it's this interesting deep in the heart of the brain. So that's anatomically. Functionally, what does it do? Well, it's easiest to when you look at what happens when you don't have a hippocampus anymore. What if you, by some disease, or you have your hippocampus what happens? Well, we know this from the most famous neurological patient of all so all psychology and He was operated in 1954 and the They removed both his very terrible epilepsy and was the genesis of epilepsy. And this was experimental, that they decided not just to remove one hippocampus, but both. And what happened was to form new memories for facts and events. Think about that for a you're not able to remember. I can't remember this I can't remember any of just chatting about in None of that can move So this hippocampus does something with all of these perceptions every single day, every minute of the day, and not for all of them, that have these features maybe they're novel, maybe maybe they're emotionally relevant, maybe they've been repeated, some of those things in the realm of facts or events get encoded And that's the textbook of why the hippocampus is so important. I like to always add, and I mean, this is why I studied the hippocampus and what it does really defines our own personal histories. It means it defines who we are, because if we can't the information we've learned, and the events of our lives, it changes us, that's That's why I wanted to And I think the exciting, new is that it's, you know, hippocampus is important for memory, you'll impress all your but what people have started just memory, it's not just for what, where, and when in our past, but it's that is in our long-term memory banks in interesting new ways. I'm talking about imagination. So without the hippocampus, but actually you're not able that you've never experienced before. So what that says is the is too simple a way to think about it. What the hippocampus is already talked about, associating things together writ large. Anytime you need to either for your past, your you are using your hippocampus. And it takes on this in our cognitive lives when That is kind of the new hippocampus that neuroscientists - That's fantastic, so sets context, but it can do that with elements from the past, - Yes. the phrase is domain, meaning as opposed to just it sounds like the time domain is incredibly interesting. - And even the fact that medium-term, and long-term memories, and we could go down any I'll ask you a true or I just really want to know the answer. A few years ago, the theme in seemed to be that the in encoding, in creating memories, but not in storing memories and that the memory storage or the other overlying areas of the brain. Is that too general a statement? - That's a tricky statement yes, that long-term memories but those memories are sometimes for a very, very long time. So how long is too long where you say, oh, it's not the hippocampus anymore? If it's four years, does that mean that it's not stored in the hippocampus? I think that's a tricky question. And yes, it was coming were debating it and some people did think that you shouldn't think as a storage area, but I think it's a long, long, long-term kind maybe not the long-term storage area. That's why it's hard to - Great, as I recall, from before his surgery. - He couldn't form new memories. - And given that he had no hippocampus, it would at least that some memories are retained - However, he did have part of his posterior hippocampus intact. So that's the tricky thing. I think initially, in fact, Scoville, the neurosurgeon overestimated he intended to remove of the hippocampus. And then when they did this, later in his life, they he did have that part of the So now it makes it a to interpret what's going on. Not that it was never of a lesion in a patient, but HM had this mythical role and now it was complicated more of the hippocampus intact. - Got it, I did not know that. There are some memories that so called one-trial learning, and I'm just looking at repetition, association, It seems like some experiences for multiple repetitions. - And unfortunately it seems is skewed toward creating for negative events. - Which has a survival adaptive mechanism. What is the neural connection Is it the amygdala to I mean, as you and I know, it ultimately is connected It's just a question of just like every city is it's just a question of do you have to traverse What is it about one-trial learning? I mean, at a kind of top contour level, how can we learn certain things so fast and other things are tricky? And now every time I it's queuing up something special simply by virtue of saying it. So is that one-trial memory? What is it about very that allow memories to get stamped in? - Yeah, I mean, I think That is there is this protective that has evolved over the that you need to pay attention and remember certain So some things that get but they're fear memories. If I get mugged on the there are terrible things that as we just learned. But if something terrible happens, if something very scary and that fear and that I mean, I have one when I I went to work at NIH on a and when I rounded the corner it was crowbarred in. Somebody had taken a crowbar, opened up my door, and stole in my apartment, which wasn't that nice, 'cause I wasn't making that much money. But ever since then, whenever I still had that memory. It was terrible because it when I was just coming home and that's a survival mechanism. Do you want to be alert Absolutely yes. So part of those one-trial is often taking advantage of this evolutionarily developed that could be potentially So you forever will remember or this hallway because really bad happened to you. - It seems like a location. We talk about conditioned place aversion, which is just a geek speak where something bad happened, or conditioned place to a place where something Or even looking at a a wonderful time with all sorts of positive sensations. It seems like at some level, the basic elements of are states within the brain to places seems like it's a you know, link place to state, as your description just provided. When we learn more complex information, a poem, a concept, or we a set of ideas, that also involves memory. I'm sure that we'll talk more about this, but is there any way that bodily state can be leveraged or the quality of memories So to be clear about it, it seems there's something very this emotional resonance component. Novelty, the crowbar into the doors, thank goodness sounds like it was novel, it wasn't repeated thing, thank goodness. So repetition is out and the association is very, very strong. But for people trying to learn that excited about, or or the novelty is simply - Yes, I've been there, absolutely. - Yeah, as have I. Is there something that knowledge of how the memory to make that a more - So, I immediately turn to that you talk about so which are strategies generally to make your brain work better. I was just reminding myself because I use that every morning. - Oh, you do cold? - Just take a moment what is your cold exposure protocol, then I'll take you back - So my cold exposure of every morning shower that I take, the shower is warm, but I give at the end of that and And because I've been it's so much less painful. Okay, I admit, it was really but it's much less painful. I could handle the cold water and my pipes give nice, really cold water. And it just, I could feel come up in me after that. And I miss it, if I forget to do it, sometimes I run back in and because it is upping, I think you talked about what's happening in the brain? - Basically the cold stimulus, that shock, that catching your breath, etc., is adrenaline from the adrenals. But also from what we understand now, some new neuroimaging, there's epinephrine and norepinephrine released which again is a brain structure kind of sprinklers the rest of the brain with a kind of a wake-up chemical. And there's a long arc This paper back in 2000 showed up to about 2.5x of circulating dopamine. So they weren't looking directly but it goes on for four or five hours. - Wow, yeah. and the feeling of - Yeah, yeah, so I use that. I mean, so basically I What is my morning routine? I get up, I do a 45-minute tea meditation. So meditating over the that I learned from a monk where he teaches tea meditation, love it. I've learned all about tea, And then I do a 30-minute Then I take my shower with And, oh, and before that, key thing, if I want to learn something to get over the difficulty or just push myself to do stuff, sleep, so good, good sleep. I've learned that over the pandemic, I did sleep experiments on sleeping an hour less So I really need seven-and-a-half And I was getting six and a half. And so now, I get that every single night, and guess what? I come to different difficult to give it a try, to try longer, to try harder, and my brain works better. And so I think probably if you go back to all of your podcasts, each one of those things that I do, which I would bet that is helping my brain. - I guarantee they are. And I'm impressed that although not surprised. And I should say that is really impressive and I'm curious, do you get that by going to bed earlier? - Terrific, and I should just mention, 'cause you're too humble to that not only are you a full professor, tenured full professor you teach undergraduates, you have an important multiple books, and you're now dean of the College of So the extra hour of and as a consequence benefiting Thanks for sharing with us your protocol. I took you off the trajectory but I think that people kind of what the practical steps are. Because knowing the science is important, mechanism I do believe is in people's minds and why but really hearing the It sounds like everything it's not an excessive amount of time, but it probably gives you an outsized positive effect on your day. - Absolutely, I definitely notice it if I'm not able to do it. And when I don't, so I do it's also not just five And when I can't do it, it's usually early-morning And I get over it, but it's critical for the working of my brain. - I love it and I'll just before we move on, which is if you get out of the you'll get back in. That's, to me, a really beautiful example of conditioned place preference. Now the cold shower has you sort of look forward to. I should say that nobody is increase of cold, no matter how cold, this is what's interesting about cold. It's one of the reasons why of the screening for special operations, so our SEAL teams, but other which is that there are very anyone and consistently get an adrenaline - Oh, interesting. without harming them. With heat, eventually you that you damage tissue. Or with exercise, you have that you can damage joints. And it's this very kind of brilliant, I don't know if it was intentional or not, it's sort of unintentional has figured out that by sending over and over, it never but over time people and it provides this reduction So anyway, beautiful practice, thank you. I want to learn more later in the episode. But in any event returning to ways that we can improve memory formation. Maybe if you would tell I know you've told it before, but I think a lot of members would love to hear how you came to this. Because growing up in as one of the, I would say and they're all alongside one another, this isn't a hierarchical statement, three or four top memory Textbook material is Suzuki. My textbooks are filled your last name, according to the information So you were doing that that academics do, and then and still at a very high level, but then things took And maybe we could talk about to the place you are at now because I think it that people could implement themselves. - Yeah, so this story to get tenure at NYU. And, as you know, it's They give you six years to show your stuff and you are judged in front And either they say, okay, or they say, sorry, you are humiliated in front of everybody. This was what was going on in my life. - They actually tell people to leave. If you don't get tenure, you're gone. - You have to leave your institution. And so, you work really, really hard. And so my strategy was, I'm just going to not do anything but work and I'm just going to work. And I'm going to just work as hard as I can for the six years. And what happens when you any sort of life outside of work and you live in New York of really good takeout, which is exactly what I did. And you get really, really stressed. And you start to ask in New York City, and I love Broadway, and I haven't gone to a And so I, 25 pounds overweight, I decided to go on vacation. And I went by myself And I went to, I did an adventure river rafting trip in Peru. And so I go by myself and and I was the weakest Like they were so much in better and they won't say this, to me, but it was true. And I kind of came back and I said, okay, I cannot be the weakest person. I'm in my late 30s, I So I went to the gym I'm 25 pounds overweight, let's try at least to lose this weight. And so I go to the gym, I when I go to just a single class. I remember the very first class I went to was a hip hop dance class. I'm a terrible hip hop dancer, but I still felt good after that class. And then fast forward a year and a half, I've lost the 25 pounds, so much happier. And I'm sitting in my office which is writing an NIH And writing, writing, writing, and this thought goes never gone through my mind before during this six years when I was trying to get tenure, and that thought was grant You know, that felt good. I was like, I've never what's going on here, - I don't know that anyone - No, I'm sure people But I thought maybe I'm But when I thought about it, I thought it's not just today. My grant writing seems to like I'm able to focus longer, the sessions feel better to me. And at that point, the only it was a huge thing, but I had become a gym rat rather than a workaholic. And that's when my spidey popped up and I said, what of exercise on your brain? Because if I think about it, what was better about my and deeper, very important, and I could remember those and pull together for your from 30 different articles on your screen all at the same time, that's the hippocampal memory. I was studying that, I on hippocampal memory. And so that's when I got really of exercise on both prefrontal and hippocampal function I still remember where I was sitting, which office I was in, But the thing that that made me think not just, but I want to study this, I got a phone call from my wasn't feeling well and that he got lost driving which was literally seven that I grew up in. And I knew that was hippocampal function. I suspected dementia. I suspected, oh, didn't want to admit Alzheimer's dementia, which he had. And it was funny because, but my mom and dad are two My dad is the engineer, but would loved and sit My mom was the athlete. She played team tennis into her 80s. And it started to show at that point. And so then I had even to think about what the because I noticed that all in my brain suddenly went Really, really smart guy, helped that push in Silicon he had no more memory. He couldn't focus his attention. His mood was rock bottom, And everything was the opposite in me. And I started thinking this somebody who wants to get that could help millions most importantly, our aging population. What if, you know, what's happening? And so the thing that makes when I realized that every you are releasing a whole And some of them we've talked about, the good mood comes from and noradrenaline, but the particularly with aerobic called brain derived And that is so important directly to your hippocampus brain cells grow in your hippocampus. We all have that. Even if you're a couch potato, you can get new brain cells But it's like giving with this regular BDNF, Which means that we all a bigger, fatter, fluffier hippocampus. And so what I like to of every single time you move your body, it's like giving your brain of neurochemicals, what's going on, I need my bubble bath of and serotonin, and growth factors. And with regular bubble I'm growing a big fat, fluffy hippocampus. And I'm not going to cure Alzheimer's dementia, but you know what? If I go into my 70s with a even if I had that in my genes it's going to take longer for my ability to form and for facts and events, which is and doing my 30 to 45 minutes - Fantastic. Quick question about your And then we'll discuss a few to what signals the body and a little bit more detail So 30 to 45 minutes of, it sounds like cardiovascular exercise might be special. But as I say that and I that I'm aware of in and certainly in humans, looking on brain function and is improvement, almost always. I don't think I've ever that when animals or humans exercise more, that their brain gets worse. I just can't think of a single paper. It doesn't mean it doesn't exist. I'm sure someone will put They'll find that one, and thank you for if you can find that, but it seems like it's always and experimentally in a lab to run on a treadmill than it is to get a mouse to lift weights. Although people have put and the ways of getting is actually a little bit barbaric - Little stressful. they'll incapacitate a limb so it's an asymmetric thing. It's not the same as sending or deadlifts, or something. But cardiovascular And what are your thoughts on that? And please first, though, Your routine is 30 to 45 minutes of, are you a Peloton cycler? Does it matter? - I think that the data as your heart rate is getting on your hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, you also get better at your attention, for that And what I use is a video even before the pandemic, and is just thousands But I love they are 30 minutes a 10 to 15 minute stretch at But I love the variety. Sometimes I do it with weight. Sometimes I do it without weights. I love kickboxing, so they have a lot of kickboxing in there. It just fits my routine, and I don't have to get to the gym to work out. So that's what I do. - And that's a daily - Yeah, yeah. a week, fantastic. So in terms of he way are being conveyed from that fascinates me. I mean, as you and I know, and I'm sort of a repeating record on the you got a brain but you and then your nervous Every organ in your body by the nervous system and you're explaining everything. But so let's imagine your morning routine, you do your cardiovascular exercise, so you're pumping more blood, that's the definition stroke volume of the you're getting fitter, so blood flow to the brain is increasing. Do we know how that gets to release more BDNF? And then it raises this does it matter where your Because ultimately the brain, of course, you can anchor your attention listening to a podcast or something else. I've always wondered about this. Can we enhance the effects the enhanced blood flow with Or is it simply a matter of up to the hippocampus? - Yeah, I wish I had the My instinct is, yes, it matters partially because of the work of on mindset and the power of that to change how physiologically So how could it not or work in her experiments and not work for my morning or our But are there studies, point to a study, I don't know of one. So exercise neuroscientists out there, I'd love to see that study done. So yes, it works. Before I go into the aerobic thing, I always like to start with to get something really useful, because I don't want people to say, oh God, I hate sweating, I don't want to listen anymore. So I always like to start that just 10 minutes of walking That is part of that that you're getting dopamine, and anybody can walk for 10 minutes. And so that is for all of what is the minimum that I could get some of these brain effects? 10 minutes of walking, anybody can do it. - Now is outside important? I'm a big believer in getting - I think that that study was And the comparison wasn't which is great, in the I walked around my apartment just for some variety, felt like a rat on a So that minimum amount can get you those mood effects. But what about the big, What about the better That's where you start to And from my reading of the literature, there haven't been enough studies directly comparing and contrasting with whatever other cardio but any cardio workout that is done has these positive effects. So I'm going to say my whatever way you get your heart rate up, including a power walk, your heart rate up, that is beneficial. And what is happening, there studied about how you go from that neurotrophin that's of new hippocampal brain cells. The two pathways are the following. One is a myokine, which is a protein released by the muscles. And not your heart, these are And so by running, these on running wheels, they had more of this myokine, released the myokine past so got into the rarefied, of inside the brain, and that of BDNF in the brain, Pathway number two comes through the liver because exercise is a stress generally. How do we know that, whenever we exercise. We need that sugar in our blood and so that's how the And so there is a ketone, that we've known for a very by the liver during exercise. And we also know that that that blood-brain barrier. And it's another stimulant for BDNF. So kind of the final BDNF stimulation in the hippocampus. Is it the only one, probably not, but that's the one that has So it comes from all of our muscles working, our of exercise, and what is it doing, it is giving more BDNF to cause the upspike of your bubble bath that you're - I love that description and a factor from liver, about movement of the to the brain, as you that needs to traverse Not everything that happens in the body is communicated to the brain and these seem like Beta-hydroxybutyrate, you I just want to underscore that you need to be on a ketogenic diet. I think people hear ketone and they think, I know some people are, most There are ketones that and body that can function, even if you're ingesting just for a point of clarification. This issue of new neurons you know, neurogenesis, new neurons, new neurons. And my understanding is is very clear that animals it turns out rodents Do you know these which are pretty funny, they're very cool, by the way, Hoppy, Howard Hughes investigator, They put running wheels in will run to the running wheel - Oh, that's great. Which I find amusing for only a neuroscientist would find amusing. In any case, in rodents, on a wheel can trigger neurogenesis, literally the birth of new of new neurons to the hippocampus. In monkeys, this has been controversial. It seems it does happen in the hippocampus and in the olfactory bulb, probably not in the neocortex. Thinking back to the between Liz Gould and Pasko Rakic. I hope they settled Neuroscientists love to argue. It's kind of what we do. And in humans, I think it's Some people say absolutely, yes. Other people say absolutely no, there are new neurons I haven't followed that But I do remember one study which is the work of Rusty where they actually injected into the brains of terminally ill humans who very graciously offered and dissected after death. And in some cases, these very they did see evidence for new neurons being born in the hippocampus. Can I trust that idea still? Is that generally accepted? - Well, so after that study, there are more recent but showing and and better techniques than were used in that original Rusty Gage study, which was groundbreaking and I think show, that in adult human brains into So they not only did this, I think those patients were in their But these new studies can we see, because the maybe you have some when you're 20, but by the time you're these new neurons, you And so these studies seem to And we all do even into old age. - Great, and I'll just that I am personally looking at other forms of exercise besides cardiovascular exercise And this, I think, is an that ought to be filled, high intensity interval training, or whether or not weight training, which has other effects so you can imagine perhaps the pathway one that you but maybe not the liver pathway, maybe. Yes, I'm speculating here. Those studies need to be done. To my knowledge, they just But they should be done. If you would, could you tell us about some of the more specific Memory is a broad category So things like what comes to mind is short-term, medium- and long-term memory, reaction time, learning is quite a bit different although there's certainly overlap in the neural underpinnings. What has been demonstrated in animal models, but and if you want to share from your lab, published or unpublished, I'm sure that the audience to learn about them. - Absolutely, let me start with kind of the immediate effects, acute of exercise on the brain. So this is asking what does do for your brain? And there, there are three major effects that have been reproduced. I've seen it in my lab, many So what do you get with the one-off? This is usually an 30 to 45 minutes. What you get is that mood You get improved prefrontal function, typically tested with a Stroop test, which is a test that asks your attention in specific ways. It's a challenging task on the prefrontal cortex largely. And significant improvements so your speed at responding, but cognitive motor response is improved. Over the pandemic, one of the looking at the effects of 30 minutes of age-appropriate workout in subjects ranging in age from their 20s all the way up to their 90s. So what are the things that Irrespective of your age, and depression and hostility So it's not just decreasing but decreasing your hostility levels. - Making the world a better place. - Making the world a better place. Energy, the feeling of energy went up. And what we found is in even more than in the younger population, we saw improved performance on both Stroop and Eriksen flanker task, on really focusing in on different letters and paying attention to So these are consistent effects. How long do they last? One of the studies that I did the immediate effects of Unfortunately, that was they were still there at two hours. So that's a pretty big bang for your buck. - That is. - Sorry to interrupt, I just So when you say the effects does that mean up to two hours Or up to two hours of Just to be clear. - Yeah, that's a great question. So my study looked at two hours after you finish your workout we gave you these cognitive tests. During that two-hour period, except exercise or eat. And so there was no extra load on people. But two hours later, you on these focused attention that watched videos for This was an hour of cycling that they did. These were young subjects in their 20s. - Okay, so if I finish even if I start this cognitive I'll still see benefits. - Yes, at least by 11, because I didn't go So it could last even longer than that, but I have evidence that - And perhaps if I had 45 minutes after my exercise ended, it would also be helpful. - Yes. to think that there's a, that you have to wait before - Yeah, no reason at all. - I'm asking questions in the comments, that we are going to get in the comment section. We always strive for clarity here. So what this tells me is that may have a special effect. I realize that some people cannot exercise until later in the evening, but you mentioned something to cue people to, it's I don't think I've ever which is any kind of physical cortisol to varying degrees. And so sometimes it's a healthy increase, sometimes it's an unhealthy increase. If you do two hours of and you're not prepared for it, that's a big spike in cortisol, for most people. But if you are going to or weight training later in the day, that increase in cortisol can promote too much wakefulness for sleep, etc. Shifting that cortisol is associated with a related to mood, etc. But more and more, what is that exercise early in the day is key. Our former dean of the was and is kind of between the hours of, like, 4 and 5:00 AM, or five and six, and then And you're up early doing your and meditation, we'll but this is more and more or a stimulus for us to think about moving our exercise earlier in the day. - Yeah, I mean, I like to say that, I know there are moms and dads look, I have a kid, the than my doing my exercise. So you will get benefits if So that's great, more power to you. But what all the neuroscience to do your exercise is to use your brain in that you need to use it every day. And so that is why the morning That's why I do it in the morning and I'm lucky enough But yeah, it makes sense with all, everything we know about how this works and how it benefits our brain. - I think about our who not incidentally has a And rumor has it that he's been a swimmer for a lot of years. That he'll put in, I think now he'll put in half a mile, but he used to do swim a mile a day or something of that sort. - Wow, I heard that, too, and he does it very, very religiously. - Okay, so there are a that do that, I can think that probably should exercise more. And I don't say that to poke at them, I just would love to see them for many more decades. And everything that we're that if one doesn't, unless we all experience I mean, the story of your And we should remember I also want to emphasize, and on just memory and memory loss in general. It seems we all get worse at remembering and learning things, even When does that typically start for humans? - You know, I think there's not only because we are individuals, but because our stress and, well, everybody's in the last couple of years, We don't remember as much highly anxious situation. So, as you know, it's hard People say, okay, just tell me how much exercise I have to do. - 30 to 45 minutes a day. But I love that per day, I've been doing this whole the data say 150 to 200 which is kind of moderately hard but not excessively hard, but Because whenever I do that, are, well, what if I take a And so people start negotiating. There's something that's very powerful about non-negotiable, everyday. Sun in your eyes every day Exercise for 30 to 45 minutes. Cold shower every day. - My understanding of the in our 50s or 60s, we start noticing little hiccups in memory, for some people younger, But I have to imagine throughout one's entire offset some of this and other downstream effects. - Yeah, I mean, that's what it suggests. One of my favorite studies, and then I want to get back to you wanted, you invited me to share on the effects of long-term exercise, but first I want to share which is a longitudinal And this was published in 2018. And what they did was back in the 1960s, they found Swedish women, 300 Swedish women in their 40s. And they characterized them Okay, and then 40 years later, they came back and found these women, they let them do, live their lives. And they asked what happened of whether they were low fit, mid fit, high fit in their 40s, And what they found was or mid fit women, the gained nine more years of Now this is not a This is a correlational study. But does it agree with everything that we've been talking about today? Yes, does it agree with that were high fit were this bubble bath, maybe not every day, but very, very regularly and that built up their big, Yes, it does. So that's one of my favorite studies. - Yeah, another cause for getting the exercise in consistently. I am impressed by this 10-minute walk and the improvements in mood But again, I think that I have to imagine has that allow plasticity. This is something we, in the we don't often hear about or think about, even as a neuroscientist, for engaging plasticity probably can be, probably I'm speculating by engaging in the sorts of behavior that stimulate plasticity. In other words, if one gets down under stress, those circuits - Yes, absolutely. gain proficiency. And so, because blood vessels can grow, capillaries can grow in the brain, you can imagine that more delivery of these various would also establish larger to getting that stuff there. So you could imagine kind of exercise, and again, but I've seen this over and the ones who exercise consistently seem to be really, really well into their 80s and 90s and the ones who aren't, some of whom actually pride themselves they get worse over time. You see them each meeting, fun at them at all, it's actually And they're kind of a fading light, they're starting to flicker. So there is this incredible relationship between body vitality and brain vitality. That, of course, is not all day in the gym. The gym rats, I enjoy working doing that, but that unfortunately you actually have to do the cognitive work also, it's not just exercise. So I'd love to hear about some of these new unpublished data. - Yeah, okay, so when I everybody was studying people 65 or older because that's when And if the idea is exercise can help you with your cognition, then makes sense. However, I thought, well, there's lots of work there. I wanted to know what happens and their 50s, maybe even Why, because that's when ready, willing, and able and gets us set up to build our brains as we go into our 60s. And so the first study low fit participants from and we wanted to ask this question, how much exercise do you really need to start seeing benefits? Do you see benefits? Or maybe you have to wait cognitive decline to get benefits. That was one of the theories out there. And so that's what I wanted to do. And so what we did was three a week cardio, it was a spin class, so spin classes are great for cardio. And the comparison group was of competitive video Scrabble. So no heart rate change, but and be in a group just for the spin class. We touched them cognitively and the end of the session. What we found was two to in these people, they are low that they were exercising for the three months So they went from that to of spin class and what in baseline rates of their relative to the video Scrabble group. Their body image got more positive because they were And really important, their significantly compared to which is great. So the more you exercise, you are to exercise. What about cognition? What changed in the cognitive Number one, we got improved but we're headed towards which is the hippocampus. What we found was improved a recognition memory and coding task, and that similar items that we're and a spatial episodic memory task, where we had them play one when they went into this to do things in a virtual city. Their performance there got better, which is very, very classically dependent on the hippocampus. So this, it was so because I've been wanting what is a minimum amount or that will get you these And now I can say in 30-to-50-year two to three times a week. Is that doable, absolutely. Will it be hard if you're low fit, yeah, it's going to be challenging, And so it makes sense that we are, I didn't study the but with all the mechanisms a role here, that absolutely This is not like you have to get any of these benefits. This is you have to start moving your body on a regular basis two So I love that for its realness. - How long are those sessions again? - 45 Minutes. - Yeah, 45 minutes, it's a There's a warmup for five for five minutes, so of they're really pushing you. - And so they're Heart rate is up. - Heart rate is up definitely up, yeah - I find that all of those that the results showing to exercise is interesting, to this issue of kind of And the neuroscientist about kind of pre-motor we have a motor system that like lift cups, and walk, and but that it's possible to create a kind of anticipatory where our body craves a certain stimulus, you mentioned the cold and Now whether or not that's the adrenaline, and the dopamine, etc., who exercises, going from per week to two to three as you described for this study. I've had that experience that I tend to battle the most, I love lifting heavy objects, I'm happy to go to the gym every other day and just lift heavy objects for an hour. It just makes me happy, and I've been doing it since I Cardio's a little bit trickier. I like to run, but if I stop I find it very hard to get back into. But if I start running three times a week for 30 to 45 minutes and I on the days I don't weight train, I find that I start to crave it. It's almost as if my body I always say, clear out the cobwebs, but it's like my mind clearly now I understand but also physically I almost to engage in that movement. Like the pre-motor circuits kind of like revving then engine So the motivation to exercise obviously could be multifaceted. It could be purely psychological, but do you think there's any or believe that we can reverbatory activity - Yeah, yeah, I agree with that because I of thoughts and I do have when I can't do it. So I just got back from a where I got to do a book launch of my last book, &quot;Good Anxiety.&quot; And I really walked around a lot, but I did not do my exercise But there was a lot of all these interviews in French. So I gave myself a break. - You speak French? - I was going to say, otherwise - That would be really stressful. - Then I'd be really impressed. Then I would definitely start exercising. Actually, I would follow but okay, very impressive nonetheless. - But I got back and coming I live in New York, is much easier. And so I was able to get up And that exercise session I'm back in my home, I'm And it felt so good. It was like I wanted to come back. And I know it's because now I could truthfully but it was first it was four to five, then it was five to six, and yeah, seven, but that includes a yoga day, or sometimes I have to instead of 30 because I have to leave. But that habit of you do you do either the weight 10-minute thing, or a five-minute thing, or a Is that somebody at Stanford of tiny habits, I thought it was? - Well, we've got a And I apologize in I neglect in this statement, but I'm happy to put it in the comments, folks. BJ Fogg is there, has done-- - BJ's done really great work. And then James Clear and has a very popular We've done an episode some of their work and some not ish, laboratory science, Daily behaviors, also at roughly the same time of day. I mean, one thing we know for sure is that the circadian system is part of anticipating when things will happen, not just what will happen. I'm telling you things you but for the audience. Performing your exercise at will make it easier as I'm going to do it seven But of course, getting it than not getting it done. - Yes, absolutely, absolutely. - Well, those are impressive you're starting to look a bit younger, not because aren't important, but I think across one's entire life As I always say with or offsetting an age-related it's hard to know if things work because there's no within subject control. But what we also know for to be the control experiment. - Exactly. want to be the control experiment, especially for something I mean, you're not talking about ingesting a particular supplement. You're not talking about But I am curious diet is on the internet, which diets but in general, in any of these studies, do they evaluate whether their eating habits when - Yeah, I think I've seen for that, but I feel for to get people to exercise at that you need for your study. If you also ask them, okay, fill out this survey to all day, they're going to say, forget you, I'm not joining your study. So it's a critical question. And again, there's only and the evidence was that diets got better when they, you know, less processed foods, when they did adhere to this exercise. But lot more information needs The second study that I we're writing it up right that I just described, which Next we move to mid fit we're already exercising, am I going to benefit from So here again we collaborated that had a whole bunch of mid fit people that by our definition were a week on a regular basis. That's great, all you people you should know you're But our question was what if as much as they wanted at the from two to three times all the way up to seven times a week, and And the control group, we asked them not to change their exercise. And so what we ended up of starting with mid between staying at two all the way up to seven times a week. And the bottom line from that study is every drop of sweat counted. That is, the more you change up to seven times a week, the better your mood was, of depression and anxiety, and the better your hippocampal memory was with the more you worked out, again, this was for three months. So I love that too, because it gives power to those of us that are regularly do I really need to? I mean, is it really going to help me? And the answer is yes. I mean, not all of us can exercise, go to a spin class seven times a week, but I love the message that And you can get better better overall baseline mood affect with a higher level. So it works for the - Fantastic, the more I learn from you, the more I'm starting to that is privileged in so many ways, has this unique blood-brain barrier, has this incredible quality of and it's job mainly is, of among other functions, of course, but that our brain isn't or get better over time, It isn't sufficient to just for granted, that our that requires a signal its own function and it sounds and these pathways that these two pathways are at least among the more critical signals. I'm tempted now to move my frequency of cardiovascular exercise from, I confess it's about three and it should be more to daily. There's something really, again, because it's nonnegotiable, And it sounds like if one were to do higher intensity exercise, I've never taken a spin there are times when they're and pedaling very hard. So that is included in these - Absolutely, yeah. - I mean, that's what I cannot control. We did monitor heart rate of clearly, compared to the video Scrabble, it was highly significant. - I would hope so. - I guess it depends on how intense that game of Scrabble is. Could we just briefly talk - Yeah, sure. a bit before about affirmations, and as you mentioned, the at Stanford, Alia Crum, we can summarize her work pretty simply, although we won't do it she's already been on the podcast, just to say that one's also impact the outcomes of that behavior. If you learn a lot of true for you, then you'll experience then if you only focus on or learn about the negative effects of stress. If you learn about the you actually derive greater believe it or not. It's incredible, incredible effects, but they make sense when you understand what the brain is doing, which is a lot of this don't seem as mysterious and woo anymore once you understand what But what is, if any, the value of affirmation something positive about yourself, or of exercise, on not but on mood, self image, - Yeah, so, I looked into a certified exercise instructor that I teach is called IntenSati. It's a form of exercise that was developed by this amazing instructor, And she combined physical and dance, and yoga, and martial arts with positive spoken affirmations. So each move, if you're as you would do in a kickbox class, you don't just punch, I am strong now, which every punch is associated with a word. And you know, you can create with the moves that you put together. And the first time I did it, I I didn't know what it I was like what, I came I don't want to come into this class. But then I saw they didn't they looked silly saying these affir-, not saying, yelling these while doing the choreography And then I tried it, I kind of whispered it at first. But by the end, I was There's something about the declaration, using your own voice of saying things that you don't often say to I'm inspired, I believe I will succeed, are all the kinds of affirmations you say. And you walk out of that class, or I walked out of that class, thinking, ah, I feel really good now. Man, I can't wait to Which is why I ultimately to be able to teach that class. And so I started to about affirmations and with physical activity, but a literature showing that saying them or reading in the same way as we're talking about, you know, Alia Crum's work. If you have this, it's a belief, once you start saying these things, these are not difficult things to believe, but it's amazing how much you don't say these kinds of things to You might say them about somebody else, oh, you're strong, you're so smart. Do you say that about yourself? And that's the thing about It really gets you into a habit of saying good things about yourself. And then you start to realize, oh my God, I'm so mean to myself. I have lots of negative thoughts going on about myself in my head, and which is part of the other reason why I loved this, this particular form of exercise. So what you get in from the positive spoken affirmations together with all the other that we've been talking from the exercise, because - Interesting, there's a book, but I have had the pleasure with a psychologist from, I believe he's at University Ethan Kross wrote a book called &quot;Chatter,&quot; which focuses on the fact that so much of our inner dialogue, He certainly wasn't the But that explicit statements to counter that negative chatter, I of readjusting one's own, not but actually self-image generally. And it's a fascinating and, I of psychology and neuroscience because, and I acknowledge this, two laboratory neuroscientists and label neurons and look we are now deep in the of what some of our colleagues about neuroscience would on the kind of subjective edges. And yet I think it's worth pointing out that the brain does all these things. It's responsible for simple but also high-level conceptual and what it might look like in 10 years, or 100 years, or 1,000 years, but also high-level of who we are and what we are about. And so even though it out on the fringes, dare I say, I think that these are untread landscapes of neuroscience. And I just want to for the fact that I'm going to you went from somebody who went on this rafting trip, That discovered exercise and its benefits for your grant writing and then became a certified - Exercise instructor. So you don't do anything I'd like to touch on something but we haven't dove into which is meditation. You mentioned this tea meditation. You had a publication recently on a 10-minute meditation. - Yes. Maybe you could tell us about because it seems like such And then if you would about the tea meditation. But sounds like you've a close to minimum threshold of meditation that can really benefit us. So maybe you could tell - So the study was, as you very practical study, just 10 minutes, not 30 that's too hard, 10 They logged into a site. So we can tell that they logged it's a body scan, very basic, but easy to follow kind of meditation. And we asked them to do it, how often? Daily, seven days a week, And the most shocking thing we got more adherence to the than the 10 minute which was our control. So the highest retention this kind of study that I've they wanted to do it 10 minutes a day. It was great. - I'm going to just for three hours as opposed to - So we looked at cognitive it was eight weeks of daily, it was actually 12-minute meditation, 12 minutes of body scan meditation. And what we found was in stress response. So we did the stress test to an unexpected, stressful situation. The meditators did much better. Their mood was better and was also better. And this was my first after I had started my that really shifted my But it is consistent with the beneficial effects of meditation. But the unique thing was that many, many people out this typical regimen, and In fact, my research in my those doable, short things will do, not just at the but at the end of the and anxiety levels are now at And they need something to they could show their professors what their brains can actually do. And so it includes very short meditations, sound meditations, visual things that any college student, but we're obviously focused I want to get at graduation rates. I want to get at class performance with these kinds of interventions. But it started with that study that I just described, meditation. - If you would, and here's where we can highlight this again, as some if it's coming from you. What do you think is going I mean, so a body skin involves a kind of a interoceptive awareness, like interoception, of to what's going on on the surface of and within the confines of our skin as opposed to the outside world. Drawing our attention to involves forebrain function, and other things, typically it's relaxing. So there are a lot of into a number of different effects. But as a neuroscientist, that this period of somewhat unusual state, what in terms of network behavior that it can have these long-term effects? Because we got to some of exercise and I think I know there's so much evidence that meditation is beneficial. How do you think it's working or what do you think it's doing? - Yeah, I think that one of that gets worked when we or 12 minute body scan this 10 minutes a day, 12 minutes a day is the habit building and on the present moment. I think that is very hard because I'm worrying at the end of the week that I need to do and how many hours am I going Or I'm worried about, as polite as it should be that I sent and what were the repercussions for that instead of focusing on I get to talk to you, it's I'm feeling good right at this moment. And I think that those, all of the meditative and this one also, whether is getting you to focus on this moment. And I think it's even more where anxiety levels and the and what are the repercussions there? And I have a mother who's older to it, and there's a war, and Those are all future possibilities. And we should be worried about that. That is a possibility, But you also need to focus I'm healthy, I can breathe, I get to have this right in this moment. If I start thinking about other things, then it takes away from this moment. Do I know what circuits are involved? Not exactly, that is not my area. I think there are some studies that present moment kind of activity. But that is what I think is most important about the practice of meditation or one of the important Because if you know how to do that, that gives you this powerful You're not locked into that that so many of us have, of the terrible past, but you could enjoy the present moment. - Yeah, that really resonates. I think that going back of our conversation, the hippocampus has this and ability to set context And that's a beautiful thing to think he had some none of us want to HM, none of us want to be in the to form new memories and have no context to the past or the present. So we're grateful that, that our hippocampus can draw in various combinations through the daily let's call them habits, so now that you've highlighted. But if we are not deliberately present, and future and we're just shuffling between that is not a good way to live. - No. - No. can really help us go to the right stacks. I guess people don't go but in the old days you would in the library, you actually by the books that you're interested in, if you need to go just reflexively, if you need to go study So that's kind of how I think about it. It makes us more linear - I think so, and it actually counteracts, not that I'm against technology, but having our phones and being connected to every good and bad thing is incredibly distracting from the present moment And so we have to work extra in the '40s when we didn't or at the same level. So yeah, it becomes even I think, for everyday life. - Yeah, or even 10, 15 years ago it felt like smartphones One final question and maybe a request. As the new incoming dean of and I must say I'm delighted, that a lot of the practices and that you've pioneered into undergraduate education. I predict, and I'd be willing a template for how universities should function because if that there's this incredible relationship between physical movement and and performance, any would be crazy, would be self-limiting, and even self-destructive So I'm so happy that you're going Please, we'll have to touch back with you and hear what comes to that. But one of the main things are issues with attention. And we haven't talked about attention, we've mainly been talking But you know a lot about attention, and here I'm not being disparaging, I think people have done as a consequence of need There's an immense amount of Modafinil use, and caffeine abuse. Now, I happen to like caffeine, I don't use the other but it's just incredible to a colleague of mine at something like two-thirds use these without prescription for ADHD. What can we expect in terms of the effects of regular exercise on attention? And are there any other and meditation that you in terms of trying to increase Because I think the is really the distinguishing feature between those that will and those that won't. And that's a scary thing because a lot of people They may, they may not. But I bet that a number of feel challenged with to the thing that they need - Yeah, so I would say the right this minute today can to attend where they for the reasons we've talked about. It has a direct effect on functioning of the prefrontal cortex. Meditation also, clear improved ability to focus and particularly focus And the third has to be sleep. So sleep is, you can't, it is the most physiological. I mean, I could live my whole life without meditating one minute. Could I survive without sleep? No, none of us could. So, it's more basic physiological, but it is so important for including attention, including creativity, including just good basic brain function. That is why it's so critical that basic neuroscience of these students that are how their brains work, but being hampered because they're not moving And there's all these distracting things that they include in their lives. Some of which a little bit is good, but you know, 24 hours a day on your phone and linked in, not LinkedIn, is damaging to your attention. So exercise, meditation, retain, and perform better these three things in your life. - Wonderful, music to my ears. And also either very considering that the exercise one could use the freely to do jumping jacks, or burpees, or sit ups, or all those in combination. - And don't forget YouTube, the freely accessible If you don't want to do your I always say this, I talk for my book, &quot;Good Anxiety,&quot; and if you don't like there's only about a with ratings from one star to five stars, so use that resource. - It is a wonderful resource and you are an amazing resource. Wendy, thank you so much to have this discussion about not just existing data, and for your leadership for your leadership in public education, for the decades of and neural circuitry, which we got to learn about today, as well. Thank you ever so much. - Thank you, Andrew, fun conversation. - Thank you for joining about learning and memory at learning and remembering If you'd like to learn more you can go to WendySuzuki.com. There you will also find titles and links to her popular books, as well We've also placed those If you're learning from please subscribe to us on YouTube. That's a terrific zero-cost In addition, please subscribe and/or Apple, and on you can leave us up to a five-star review. If you have suggestions that you'd like us to cover or you'd like to give please leave that in the that's the best place to give us feedback. Please also check out at the beginning of today's episode, that's the best way to We also have a Patreon, it's And there you can support the podcast at any level that you like. On many episodes of the we discuss supplements, while not necessary for everybody, tremendous benefit from them the transition into sleep, and as well as enhancing focus and learning, and other aspects of human We're excited to announce with Momentous supplements. The reason we partnered with First of all, we wanted where Huberman Lab Podcast to find all the supplements and to find those in a systematically try one or the other. This is a real issue in A lot of supplement different ingredients in ways to pinpoint exactly what you So getting supplements or just the minimal effective dose of particular ingredients, and those ingredients yourself, what's best for you is really key. In addition, we came to realize want supplements, but they reside outside of the United States. So we're pleased to tell both within the US and internationally. And of course, Momentous supplements are of the very highest and the precision of the is tightly regulated. If you're interested in the catalog of supplements related to the Huberman Lab Podcast A good number of them are already there. You can go to livemomentous.com/huberman in order to find them. And there will be to that site as we go forward. If you're not already on Twitter and Instagram, and other science-related information and tools on a regular basis. Some of that information of the Huberman Lab Podcast, from the information contained So again, that's Huberman Lab on Instagram and Huberman Lab on Twitter. We also have a Neural Network Newsletter. What that is is a monthly critical points from provide links to useful resources. If you want to sign up I should mention it is zero cost, and we do not share and we have a very clear privacy policy posted at hubermanlab.com, click on the menu, you'll see You can also look at without having to sign up to make sure that you actually do want to sign up. But if you are interested, very easy and you can receive So once again, thank you for into the neuroscience of to get better at learning and memory. And as always, thank you for [upbeat rock music]