So what we're going to try to talk about today is the arithmetic of dynamical sequences. Let's do an example; so here's an example maybe you'll recognize. Let's let f of x be the function 2x plus 1, and what I mean by iterating something under this function is let's start at a point say x equals 0. When we plug x equals 0 into this function we get 1 and then let's keep doing that; so when we plug 1 into the function we get 2 plus 1 which is 3, when we plug 3 into the function we get 6 plus 1 which is 7. So you look at the last number - so 15, 31. So maybe I'll do two more just for a demonstration here, so 62 plus 1 that's 63 and 126 plus 1 it's 127. So this sequence is special, so the sequence- you might recognize that each of these numbers in the sequence are off from a power of 2 by exactly 1. so this is known as the Mersenne sequence. Well people have heard of the Mersenne sequence because there's a famous question that we don't know how to answer is are there infinitely many prime numbers in this sequence? Since this question is so hard, one easier question we could ask would be what are the prime divisors of each element of this sequence look like? (a harder question!) harder question depending on how specific you want to get. But so what I mean by the prime divisors of elements of the sequence is we have these factors, so each number factors into prime numbers as long as we're ignoring 0 here. So 3 is already prime, 7 is already prime, but 15 this is 3 times 5. 31 that's already prime, 63 well let's see - so 7 is a prime divisor and 9 is a divisor but it's not prime, it's actually 3 times 3 times 7. see I think that's prime; and so on. Anyway so this is what I mean by prime divisors. And so instead of asking, okay, do we have infinitely many elements in this sequence which are prime? We could at least ask as we go along in the sequence do we get a new prime at each step? So that's the in answering. So here, okay we don't have any prime devisers, but here 3 is a prime divisor that never appeared before, here 7 is a prime divisor that never appeared before, here 5 never appeared, 31 never appeared - but here we run into a problem. (We broke the streak.) (And is that bad?) interested in. But if the question is, do we always have a new prime divisor? For the Mersenne sequence the answer is no because look at the sixth element - doesn't have a new prime divisor. But the interesting fact is after that all Mersenne numbers have a new prime divisor. (Every single one?) (What happened with 63?) you're at the beginning of a sequence the numbers are so close and there's so many primes happening that it can occur that you sort of fail to have this new prime divisor. And it also matters that this was the sixth element of the sequence, but that's a little bit complicated. So the point is that after that after that sixth element of the sequence, after 63, we always have the new prime divisors. So this is an interesting thing and I think the next natural question once you notice that a sequence like this has some interesting property is what's special about this sequence? What other sequences have this property? So instead of choosing a function like 2x plus 1 to generate my sequence what if I chose a nonlinear function? So if I had an x squared in there. So let's say I chose x squared plus 1. But we can still start generating these sequences; so if we start with 0, if we plug it into this function, it is going to when we plug 1 in we get 1 plus 1 which is 2. When we plug 2 in we have 2 squared plus 1 which is 5. We plug 5 in we have 25 plus 1 which is 26; and when we plug 26 in I happen to know we end up with 677. So because I'm dealing with an x squared instead of an x here the sequence gets larger we get this sequence of integers, still we can ask when do we start getting new prime divisors? So if we look at what we have here- so notice again 2 &amp; 5 are already prime; 26 is 2 times 13 and 677 is also prime. And it turns out that for this sequence it's even better than Mersenne sequence: all numbers after 2 have a new prime divisor. So this has proven that after 2 you always get a new prime divisor in this particular sequence. (sequence; then you showed me a more) (amazing sequence!) So let's do the same thing, except that there's no reason that we're only talking about positive integers here, right? So let's look instead at something like this and see what happens. So again we start with 0; 0 maps to negative 1, negative 1 maps to 1 squared minus 1 which is 0. But we already know where 0 maps - 0 maps to negative 1 and so the sequence we get is completely not interesting. - (I think that's cool! How can Well it's definitely not going to have this property that we have new prime divisors at least. So this is bad news, right? As far as this question is concerned this is a weird sequence. So let's let's try a different negative number, let's try- I don't want to try minus 2 and maybe you can try it and find out why, let's try instead minus 3. All right so let's go; so 0, and minus 3, minus 3 maps to 9 minus 3 which is 6, 6 maps to 36 something messy that I don't want to calculate. But now we'll get an infinite sequence again; instead of having this this repetition like we had in the minus 1 case we'll get an infinite sequence and again this sequence will have new prime divisors at each Every time. (such a special thing anymore.) me tell you you're sort of right. So here I'll write down a general fact: if say c is an integer - so a whole number or the negative of a whole number - and c is not 0 minus 1 or minus 2, mostly because we want to avoid this problem, then every element of the sequence that's generated from x squared plus c has a new prime divisor. (minus 1, minus 2?) squareds but it works for x squareds plus an integer. If you wanted you could ask this for a fraction c instead of a whole number c. So if c was 1/2 let's say, so if f of x is x squared plus 1/2 well then what starts happening? So 0 maps to 1/2; now the computation is a little less pleasant but 1/2 is 1/4 plus 1/2 which is 3/4. 3/4 when we put it into this function we have 9 over 16 plus 1/2 which I guess is 17 over 16? Does that sound right? And so on. So even though we're getting these fractions in the sequence the denominators are just powers of 2. And so when you try and factor them the only prime that you get there is 2 so we can still ask the same question about the numerators in the sequence. (just going to ignore the denominators?) the denominators, there's not interesting stuff there happening there anyways. So if you ignore the denominators then we look and we have this sequence 0, 1, 3, 17 and so on; and it turns out that again you will have this property. It seems sort of fundamental and part of the reason why is because I've been hiding an example from you. So- so maybe one last example of computation that I'll show you is this kind of tricky little thing here: x squared minus 7 over 4. 0 map to? 0 maps to minus 7 over 4, 21 over 16, minus 7 over 16 squared. All of a sudden everything comes to a stop because look at our numerators - 0, 7, 7 times 3 - so 3 is a new prime divisor there - but here we don't have a new prime divisor. So there's something different between 1/2 and minus 7/4; for some reason there's an element in this sequence where the numerator doesn't have a new prime divisor. (is the only number, the only fraction) (that throws the spanner in the works?) We don't know, we don't know. you a hint of why this is true: so this is the only one that we know of, but we don't know if it's the only time it can possibly happen. So what's really going on behind the scenes here has something to do with a particular set of numbers known as the Mandelbrot set which I won't go into but it's this interesting fractal where things go kind of crazy, and it's hard to draw a fractal so I'll just do my best. Thank you! So let me put this into perspective for you, so this is a picture of the complex numbers and I'm interested in the numbers that are inside of this set. And let's look at the values of c that we've done this computation for: so 1, we first did x squared plus 1, 1 is over here. We also did minus 1, minus 1 is over here. We did minus 3 which is well outside of this set. We did one half which is also not inside this set. But minus 7 over 4, it is inside of this set. So minus 7 over 4 it turns out is right inside this piece of the Mandelbrot set. (of the real numbers there) (seems to run right through (fractions that would be- is that- aren't) (there going to be loads of fractions) (that are going to cause That's a really good point. So you're absolutely right, there's there's tons and tons of fractions on the real line inside of the Mandelbrot set, but it's not enough it turns out to just be inside the Mandelbrot set you have to be particularly very far inside of the Mandelbrot set. And so this is really saying something special about where the number c can lie inside of the Mandelbrot set. (numbers like) (minus 7 over 4 that are going to) (throw a spanner in our works they) (definitely have to be in here?) right. So right away you get for free that if you take a large enough fraction, say bigger than 1 for example although you could get closer, for free you get that there will always be new primes in those sequences. But yeah, if we were to look for other examples of where this might occur they would have to lie inside of the Mandelbrot set and they would have to lie well inside the Mandelbrot set actually it turns out. (But it looks like there are (that would be pretty well inside the) (Mandelbrot set, or is it It's a particular thing. Inside each of these bulbs here that I've drawn sort of half half heartedly there's a special point. And what might happen, the only reason why this might happen, is if your rational number is very very close to that special point in a technical way that is is hard to formulate. I think at heart people don't believe that there's one beyond minus 7 over 4. If I had to make a guess I would say probably not, but it would certainly be nice to know that for sure.