"The masses have never thirsted after truth. They turn aside from evidence that is if error seduce them. Whoever can master; whoever attempts to destroy their (Gustav Le Bon) According to the psychologist Carl Jung the the forces of nature, nor with any physical the forces of our own psyche. We are our own worst enemies or as the Latin puts it "Man is wolf to man". In Civilization in Transition Jung states "is a sad yet eternal truism" and our into play at those times of history when mental than the exception in a society, a situation "Indeed, it is becoming ever more obvious" earthquakes, not microbes, not cancer but to man, for the simple reason that there is epidemics, which are infinitely more devastating catastrophes." (Carl Jung, The Symbolic Life) In this video we are going to explore the mass psychosis. A mass psychosis is an epidemic of madness large portion of a society loses touch with Such a Two examples of mass psychoses are the 17th centuries and the rise of During the witch hunts thousands of individuals, they committed but because they "In some Swiss villages," writes Frances alive out." (A Delusion of Satan) When a mass psychosis occurs the results are Jung studied this who make up the infected society they "sink unconsciously to an "more unreasonable, irresponsible, worst of all "Crimes the individual alone the group [smitten by madness]." What makes matters worse is that those suffering unaware of what is occurring. For just as an individual gone mad cannot his mind to observe the errors in his ways, from which those living through a mass psychosis Madness. But what causes a mass psychosis? To answer this question we must first explore While there are many potential triggers of such as an excessive use of drugs or alcohol, physical causes will not concern us here. Our concern is with psychological, or what are the most common culprit of the mass The most prevalent psychogenic cause of a emotions, such as fear or anxiety, that drives When in a state of panic an individual will and physically draining to subsist in this While escape from the state of panic can be such as facing up to, and defeating the fear is to undergo a psychotic break. A psychotic break is not a descent into a greater disorder as many believe, but a re-ordering blends fact and fiction, or delusions and of panic. Silvano Arieti, one of the 20 th century's schizophrenia, explains the psychogenic steps "[the] phase of panic - when the patient is frightened on account of it, appears confused, "the strange things that are happening." (Interpretation of Schizophrenia) The next step is what Arieti calls a phase "succeeds in "putting things together" reality, [which allows him] to explain his The phenomenon is sees meaning and relations in his . ." But the insight is psychotic because adaptive and life-promoting ways of relating panic. The delusions, in other words, allow the panic-stricken from the flood of negative emotions, but at for this reason Arieti says that a psychotic of dealing with an extreme state of anxiety. . ." If a panic-triggering flood of negative emotions, individual, can trigger a psychotic break, population of weak and vulnerable individuals threats real, imagined, or fabricated. But as delusions can take many forms, and the specific manner in which a mass historical and cultural context of the But in the modern era it is the mass psychosis that appears to be the greatest threat: "Totalitarianism" writes Arthur Versluis centralized state power coupled with the obliteration in the totalized state, there are those in the victims." (Arthur Versluis, The New Inquisitions) In a totalitarian society the population is the ruled, and both groups undergo a pathological The rulers are is diametrically opposed to our nature by power. The masses, on the other of these pathological rulers childlike status. Hannah Arendt, one of this form of rule, called of "human nature itself". But this minds into sick minds for as the effects of living under "... there is in fact much that is comparable citizens of [totalitarianism] and their culture reactions of the...sick schizophrenic on the (The Rape of the Mind) totalitarianism is built upon, and For only deluded men and women regress to status of obedient and submissive subjects their lives to politicians and bureaucrats. Only a deluded ruling class will believe acumen to completely control And only when under the spell of delusions anyone believe that a society composed of and a psychological regressed population, other than mass suffering and social ruin. The mass psychosis of totalitarianism has history, and as Meerloo explains: "It is manipulating collective feelings in the proper The general method by which this end is called menticide, with the of the mind', and as Meerloo further "Menticide is an old crime against the human anew. It is an organized system of psychological perversion through which a [ruling class] thoughts upon the minds of those [they] plan (The Rape of Priming a population for the crime of menticide as to place a population into the state of into the delusionary beliefs of a psychosis. A particularly effective technique to Under this technique the sowing of each of these periods of calm is intense spell of fear, and on and "Each wave of terrorizing . . . creates spell - than the one that preceded it because previous experience. Morality becomes lower and lower, and the effects of each new propaganda campaign become already softened up." (Meerloo) While fear primes a population for menticide, misinformation and to promote confusion with threats, and the nature of the crisis, helps masses. Government officials, and their lackies in contradictory reports, non-sensical information they confuse the less capable will a population diminish their fear, in a rational and adaptive Confusion, in other words, into the delusions of totalitarianism, or "Logic can be met with logic, while illogic straight. The Big Lie and monotonously repeated nonsense appeal ... than logic and reason. While the [people are] still searching for reasonable counter-argument to the first lie, with another." (The Rape of the Mind) Never before in history have such effective into the psychosis of totalitarianism. Smart phones and social media, television bots that spread propaganda and unwanted information, allow those in What is more the addictive people voluntarily subject with a remarkable frequency: "Modern technology" explains Meerloo "teaches world he is looking at; he takes no time to Technology lures No rest, no meditation, no are continually overloaded with stimuli. [Man] doesn't learn to question his world ready-made." (The Rape of the Mind) But there is a further step the would-be totalitarian chance of a totalitarian psychosis, and this normal social interactions. When alone and lacking normal interactions friends, family and coworkers, an individual delusions for several reasons: Firstly, they of the positive example. For not everyone is tricked by the machinations ruling elite and the individuals who see through others from the menticidal assault. If, however, isolation is enforced the power these positive examples greatly diminishes. But another reason that isolation like many other species, human patterns of thought and behaviour regards to the physiologist Ivan "Pavlov made another significant discovery: developed most easily in a quiet laboratory Every trainer of animals knows this from his patient repetition of stimuli are required . . .The They know that they can condition their kept in isolation." (The Rape of the Mind) Alone, confused and battered by waves of terror, menticide descends into a hopeless and vulnerable The never-ending of rational thought into swirling around them, and within ordered world. The would-be they can offer a way out and a return rapidly in the opposite direction. But give up their freedom and cede control They must relinquish their capacity to be for their own lives, and become The masses, in other words, must descend into ". . .the totalitarian systems of the 20th psychosis," writes the medical doctor Joost "Whether gradually or suddenly, possible in such a system: there is a projection of "the enemy," imagined be "in our midst." Thus society turns on itself, urged on by But the order of a totalitarian world is a By enforcing a strict from the citizenry, totalitarianism many of life's joys and the The total control of this form of rule, no it rule by scientists and doctors, breeds stagnation, destruction and And so perhaps the most important question world is how can totalitarianism be prevented? And if a society has been induced can the effects be reversed? While one can never be sure of the prognosis steps that can be taken to help effectuate This task, however, necessitates people. For just as the must be the counter-attack. According help return sanity to an insane world, the and to live in a way that provides "It is not for nothing that our age cries one who can emancipate himself from the grip save at least his own soul, who lights a beacon that here is at least one man who has succeeded fatal identity with the group psyche." (V10) But assuming one is living in a manner free further steps that can be taken: firstly, should be spread as far, and as wide, as possible. For the truth is more powerful the would-be totalitarian rulers and so ability to censor the free flow of Another tactic is to use humour and ridicule ruling elite or as Meerloo explains: "We must learn to treat the demagogue and . The demagogue himself is almost incapable of any sort, and if we treat him with humor, A tactic recommended by Vaclav Havel, a political communist rule who later became president construction of what are called "parallel A parallel structure is any technology, or creative pursuit that yet morally outside of it. In these parallel structures were more political action. Furthermore, when "second culture" or "parallel society" of freedom and sanity within a Or as Havel explains in his book The Power "....what else are parallel structures than lived, a life that is in harmony with its in harmony with those aims? . . .What else are those initial attempts organization than the efforts of a certain sustaining aspects of totalitarianism and, involvement in the...totalitarian system?" But above all else what is required to prevent totalitarianism is action by as many people For just as the ruling elite deliberate steps to increase their must be made to move the world This can be an immense challenge in a world but as Thomas Paine noted: yet we have this consolation with us, the triumph." (Thomas Paine, ,