- I learned a productivity system that's helping to organize remember more of what I learn and add two inches to my biceps. Okay, one of those isn't true, but still, technology continues to Thousands of apps are launched each year. AI chatbots are changing how and we're learning more every day about how humans can create Instead of getting completely left behind, I decided to lean in to How could we make sense of all What are the best tools to What do the most productive people in the world have in common? The lessons I learned taught me how to best organize my own life, and they might help you as well. Also, you'll add at least This all started with just one question. &quot;How can I improve my memory?&quot; Ever since I was young, I've been surprised by just And to this day, I still I always forget people's names, and I lose my shoes at Among the many experts talking about how to improve our memory online, there was one approach from the others. - My solution is kind It's kind of counterintuitive, which is to go to the opposite extreme and to not try to remember anything. It's to actually outsource that job, delegate the job of remembering, and give it over to intelligent machines that have perfect memory And that these days are or a phone away. - [Matt] Tiago has spent the to help people organize He calls it Building a Second Brain. That's also the name of his book. It's an insanely complicated structure of applications, tools, and techniques that are synthesized into a database for future recollection. Or, put another way, - It's note-taking. Take things you learn, lessons articles, courses, conferences. - Okay. It's gotta be a little bit - Except there's a difference. Most people take notes for the short-term. It's like they take notes just or a meeting they're in, or a phone call. But to me, when I put in that effort, when I actually put in the to me, I was creating this I thought, every little note could be useful far into the future. And so I just started which is widely available, in a way that was kind of more long-term, more systematic, more - When a Notes app is working well, you can connect the dots store resources and keep When a Notes app isn't working, you struggle to find and you have trouble Taking a look at my own Notes app, I could tell that there was a So with the help of Tiago, I went about building a Now taking a look here, you can see that I do The notes folder is the default Then I've got a personal folder, a videos folder for all of and a few others. Now the system is broken. I almost always create a note and just leave it in the That's why there are over 1,000 notes in this folder right now. All right, so it's time to take some and clean this up the best that I can. As I started to go through my notes, I realized just how Quotes, keyboard shortcuts, and some brilliant ideas like this one, called Armed and Dangerous. It reads, &quot;Pixar movie that finds his second arm but I mean, these notes need to In all seriousness, there were a lot of really I just need to define them. My previous strategy of into generic folders personal, and business, I have one folder that's just personal. So it's literally everything just gets thrown in there. So Tiago recommended that called Para. - P-A-R-A. Which stands for Projects, - [Matt] In Projects, you store things you're Like your office reno or Then in Areas, you place things that are in your life, like vehicles or taxes. In Resources, you store things like book And finally, in Archives, you move the things that but might be useful in the future. 24 hours later, and I'm officially done Let's take a look at Right here in Projects, you'll find all my active projects. So things like YouTube an editing course, pregnancy, That's right, I'm trying to pick up golf. In Areas, you'll find things cooking and healthcare. And below this, we've got Resources. This is really a work in progress, but it's gonna be the future that I learned through books, And finally, we have Archive. This is where I'm gonna be I organized 1,000 notes into folders, deleted another 1,000 completely, and threw 500 into a in case I need them later. And if you were wondering, yes, I held onto that amazing Pixar idea. I also organized my Google Drive files into that same PARA format. In the process, I almost and nearly gave myself a heart attack. But luckily, I was able Personally, apart from I found the process of organizing And I was starting to could be helpful if I - When there's a place for something, you find more of it, right? When there's a special place for a certain kind of information, you're gonna start to and pieces of information Once you save them, which can be by typing it can be taking a photo it can be downloading It now doesn't go into this black pit, this black bottomless hole of stuff. It goes right into that Project folder. - As I got on with my life, I continued to take notes as usual. By default, all of my new notes saved This acts as a kind of inbox for my notes. I'm taking a note right now for a company that I just learned about that helps to offset So that's pretty cool. And then every week, I go through my notes and organize them into This was already working so much better than my previous spray-and-pray approach. If you're more of a visual learner, you might be interested called Milanote. They're actually my sponsor The best way that I can describe this app is that it's a notes app for creatives. And it's pretty amazing. Whether you're decorating or working on an infographic, Milanote is a great way to and mind map projects. Let me show you a project I wanted to give my YouTube So I created a new board And I plugged in their Moodboard template. From there, I added inspiration I included photos, thumbnails and graphics that caught my eye. And I made another section with that we're currently doing And then I shared it with my designer. This specific board and that was the point. I wanted it to be a playground where we could throw and narrow in on a vision. And here is the final If you wanna get started with Milanote, I've got some good news. It is absolutely free. So click the link in There's a link down there. And you can get started on Check it out. Let me know what you think. Throw a comment down below if So the most important is the Notes app. But as I learned, that really is just the There's a little bit more to it than that. When you zoom out, there are Some things you probably already have, like a to-do list and a calendar, and another category that I until speaking with Tiago, It turns out that these in your second brain. - Capture tools are a that are designed to do exactly that. To get information, capture information, from either the digital and get it into your notes. - [Matt] My current process into Apple Notes and then or highlight a physical book and then forget about it forever. Having literally never spent a second thinking about capture tools, I asked Tiago if he as I got started. - Are you familiar with a - No. No, I haven't heard of it. - Oh my gosh, you're gonna eat this up. Readwise is pretty much besides, my absolute number one recommendation. But it basically connects different apps. So what happens basically is in a Kindle book, Readwise is sort of, it's like this process this little helper, it detects and with no further action, there's no exporting, no it automatically imports but every single highlight Silently, quietly in the It just appears in my Notes. - Clearly excited to get connected it to my Kindle and got going. Digging into a new book now, called &quot;The Psychology of Money.&quot; Gonna be taking lots of highlights As I started reading new books, I felt more confident I and sort all the most important Instead of just crossing my fingers and hoping I'd remember everything, I got really intentional I wanted to see. Sometimes it was for a specific Or in the case of this it was lessons that would I can't be the only one the popular highlights. 11,439 people can't be wrong. So I just finished reading and all my highlights are automatically There are 68 of them in total. As I went to sync all these I ran into a problem. Apparently Apple doesn't The only solution would I'm not doing it! I am not I just organized Apple Notes. It took me seven and a and organize the whole thing. I'm not switching. Even though I can't use this feature, it's still nice to have all And if I really need to, I could always copy and that I really want to save. One final tool that I learned about is called a ReadLater app. And as the name would suggest, it allows you to save There are lots of I went with one called Reader. This way I can go throughout my day, saving the things that I find interesting from articles to videos, tweets and blogs, and consume them at a later - And it's just incredible, It's like in the moment you of like 35 funny cats. Right in that moment, it &quot;Oh no, this is the thing But if you just time shifted even an hour, or a few hours to that evening, suddenly you see that you're like, &quot;Oh my gosh, Which means you save all the time that you would've spent - [Matt] I really like in a distraction-free way. There were two features in particular that I was really impressed by. First, when you save a it automatically pulls the transcript. - All of this begins with between background tasks and - So you can highlight the And second, you can highlight So say I'm reading an I can now highlight And the coolest part, all of these highlights and right alongside my ebook highlights. This was all very new to me. I know that there are a lot of people that have been using these but I'm somewhat of a late adopter. And so it really felt on a decade's worth of The more that I used my second brain, the more I started to see the benefits. It felt like I was finally When I went to the dentist, I could quickly pull up my notes I even had notes linking I was able to pull together lots of notes that are helping me to prepare for the birth of our first child. Take this note from a called &quot;How to Be a Great Birth Partner.&quot; I've included a summary of the key points at the top of the page. And as you scroll down, you can see I use a technique called Progressive Summarization. That's basically just a The important parts are bold and the really, really important It helps as I go back and try to digest and remember this information. I was able to store office inspiration, personal finance tips, camera recommendations, and No longer a black hole. One of the big reasons of is that it's organized and and we don't get lost and Is that right? - The structure of your notes should match the structure of your life. Because the purpose of notes is to support and enhance your life, right? So sometimes I'll see people with this beautiful that looks like a research database, or looks like a gigantic And it's beautiful. It's It's impressive, and then over here, their life is a complete mess. And I'm like, &quot;No, those two They should complement each other.&quot; - [Matt] So much of the productivity conversation online today is about the tools. Every day there's a new app or AI program that you apparently need to have. But I've found that and more about how you use it. That's why I stick with Apple Notes instead of switching to And that's why I didn't waste my time trying a dozen different ReadLater apps and just picked one There's something to be said and just doing the work. And that's advice that you should take if you wanna build a - Start with something too simple and then wait till it breaks. Wait till you try to do something with it and it's actually not good enough. It's not powerful enough. That is the moment that it's time to move to something a little You may find yourself moving a file into that gigantic personal folder, and then a little voice in your &quot;Uh oh, I don't trust that I don't trust that this That's not only an allowable approach, that is the best approach. It's organic. It's bottom up. In response to how your life is changing. - [Matt] Find everything that including links to all and Tiago's work in the description below. And please subscribe for into self-development in the future. Thanks for watching.