When we bought our house several years ago, we the foundation. At 75 years old, we knew holding this old house up. This year we Any homeowner who's had foundation work and disruption of a project like this. But homes It is both a gravitational necessity and a source engineers that all construction - great and small accomplish such a seemingly unexceptional feat I'm Grady and this is Practical Engineering. In This video is sponsored by CuriosityStream There's really just one rule for structural and when you put something on the ground, it should directive. You can put a lot of stuff on the several years ago I optimistically stacked that I would use them in a landscaping project here in this shady purgatory for all of eternity. a little different. Mainly, they are large enough parts, a phenomenon we call differential movement. the rest of it, you introduce stress. And if that the thing, that thing will pull itself apart. including right here in my own house. When than the others, all the stuff it supports and ceramic tile work much better and last much There are many kinds of foundations used for but before we dive into how they work, I think it up against, or actually down against. Of course, jobs of a foundation is to evenly distribute pressure. Soil isn't infinitely strong against component of a structural system. When the forces we call it a bearing failure. The soil pushing the rest of the soil to either side, Even if the subsurface doesn't full-on shear, it are compressed more closely together, and it (I have a video all about settlement So, job number 1 of a foundation is to distribute enough area to reduce the bearing pressure and Structural loads don't just come from gravity. pressure on a large structure pushing it wing of an airplane. Earthquakes also create loads little warning. Just like the normal weight of by a foundation to prevent it from lifting or Speaking of the ground, it's not the most It has bugs, like termites, that can eat away strength. It also has moisture that can lead to on top of cedar piers. This is a wood species but not completely immune to them as you can see. the effects of long-term degradation and decay Another problem with the ground is that Freezing isn't usually a problem for me in temperatures that rise and fall below the freezing We all know water expands when it freezes, and happens to subsurface water below a structure, it these cycles of freeze and thaw can slowly shift creating issues. Similarly, some kinds I also have a video on this phenomenon, so you clay soil can create the same type of damage a structure in small amounts with each cycle of to reach a deep enough layer that can't freeze in moisture content to avoid these problems that Job number 5 isn't necessarily applicable to structures (like bridges and retaining walls) Over time (or sometimes over the course of a undermining the structure. Many foundations either with hard armoring or by simply that they can't be undermined Job number 6 really applies to all of engineering: contractor who built my house in the 1940s three times the depth? Of course it can be done, this one lasted 75 years before needing to be somewhere between 5 and 15 years, few people 500 years of remaining life in the foundation paid this contractor to build me a foundation Engineering is a job of balancing constraints, and come down to the question of "How can we without overdoing it and wasting a bunch of Foundations are generally deep and shallow. Most buildings with only are built on shallow foundations. That means they the earth (or just below it). Maybe the most basic They cut down cedar trees, hammered those beams across the top of those piers, and then Pier and beam foundations are pretty common, an added benefit of creating a crawlspace below drains, and electric lines can be installed unconnected points of contact with the earth leave Another basic type of shallow foundation is of a ribbon or strip of concrete upon which walls the walls and sits directly on concrete slab atop floor joists, making room for a crawlspace below. option because it's simple and cheap, but if the allow differential movement because all the walls it makes sense to use a raft foundation - a across the entire structure. Raft foundations the ground (usually with some thickened areas the loads across a larger area, reducing accommodate some movement of the ground without essentially riding the waves of the earth like they don't have a crawlspace which makes One issue with all shallow foundations is that line - that is the maximum depth to which water of the winter - in order to avoid frost heaving. the frost line can be upwards of 8 If you're going to dig that deep you might as well just add an extra That's usually called a basement, and it (although the walls are usually constructed on As a structure's size increases, so do the it becomes infeasible to rely only on soils elevated roadways, bridges, and coastal structures is especially true when the soils at the surface ground. Deep foundations almost always rely on are driven or drilled into the earth, often down are way more types than I could ever cover in a bottom (called end bearing), but they can also be called skin friction. This makes it possible loads - whether downward, upward or horizontal One of the benefits of driven piles is same way that they'll be loaded in their final because you can just stop pushing the pile the design loads. There's a problem with This hydraulic press has more than enough And at first, it does just that. But eventually, is less than the bearing capacity of the pile, and Just add more weight. But consider that these of an entire structure. It's not feasible just to react against to drive a pile into which can deliver significantly more force to The problem with hammered piles is that the is different from the static loading buildings don't usually hammer on their withstand the force of a 5-ton weight dropped the equivalent static load it can withstand? That and even though there are published equivalencies can vary widely depending on soil conditions. the pressure wave generated by a hammer might not at the same moment in time. Static tests are more either have to bring in a ton (or thousands of build additional piles with a beam across them One interesting solution to this problem In this method, a mass is accelerated equal and opposite force on the pile to be except unlike a hammer where the force on the duration of loading in a statnamic test That makes it much more similar to a static tons and tons of weight or build expensive I'm only scratching the surface (or subsurface) textbooks and the careers of thousands of was solid rock, life would be a lot simpler, but topics in foundations that you'd like to learn and I'll try to address it in a future video, of those innocuous bits of structural and Hey, thanks for sticking around to the end of probably watch a lot of videos about science You probably also don't enjoy watching ads like have any. Nebula is a streaming service built by Real Engineering, Wendover Productions, It's a way for us to try new ideas that might YouTube. My videos go live there the day before And, we're super excited to continue our thousands of documentaries and non-fiction titles CuriosityStream loves independent creators and offering free access to Nebula when you sign I know there are a lot of streaming services can be tough to keep track of. That's why this is taking 26% off an annual plan - that makes thousands of thought-provoking documentaries well. You can watch awesome big-budget content Inventor Awards that showcase the coolest new watch the new Nebula-exclusive series "Logistics It's a great way to support my channel and a whole Plus it's just a great deal. Do us both a Thank you for watching, and