Chris Anderson: Demis, Demis Hassabis: It's fantastic Now, you told Time Magazine, &quot;I want to understand the big questions, the really big ones that you normally if you're interested in them. I thought building AI would be the fastest route Why did you think that? DH: (Laughs) Well, I guess when I was a kid, my favorite subject was physics, and I was interested fundamental nature of reality, what is consciousness, you know, all the big ones. And usually you go into physics, But I read a lot of the great physicists, some of my all-time scientific heroes And I realized, in the last, we haven't made much progress in understanding some So I thought, why not build which is artificial intelligence. And at the same time, we could also maybe and the brain better, by doing that too. So not only was it incredible tool, it was also useful for some CA: Super interesting. So obviously AI can do so many things, but I think for this conversation, I'd love to focus in on this theme to unlock the really big questions, because it's been such a theme DH: So I mean, one and I've always thought about, is we're getting, you know, the beginning of the internet era the amount of data that was being produced and also scientific data, just too much for the human mind And I think one of the uses in huge amounts of data to the human scientists to make sense of and make new hypotheses and conjectures. So it seems to me very compatible CA: Right. But game play has played a huge role in figuring this thing out. Who is this young lad on the left there? Who is that? DH: So that was me, I think I must have I'm captaining the England Under 11 team, and we're playing that's why we're all in red. I think we're playing France, Scotland CA: That is so weird, In my dreams. (Laughter) And it wasn't just chess, you loved all kinds of games. DH: I loved all kinds of games, yeah. CA: And when you launched DeepMind, pretty quickly, you started Why? DH: Well, look, I mean, games because while we were doing things like, we used to go on training camps And actually back then, I guess it was in the mid '80s, we would use the very if you remember them, to train against, as well as playing against each other. And they were big lumps of plastic, you know, physical boards some of you remember, used to actually and there were LED lights, came on. And I remember actually, I was actually just fascinated someone had programmed it to be smart and actually play chess And I was just amazed by that. And that got me thinking about thinking. And how does the brain come up these ideas, and then maybe how we could So yeah, it's been a whole theme CA: But you raised all this money and pretty soon you were I mean, this is an odd use of it. What was going on here? DH: Well, we started off with games This was back in 2010, it was our first big breakthrough. Because we started off with classic the simplest kind of computer And one of the reasons we used games to test out your ideas They're really fast to test. And also, as your systems you can choose harder and harder games. And this was actually the first time ever the first of many times, which, it figured out that you could send the ball and actually, it would be much safer way It's a classic Atari game there. And that was our first real aha moment. CA: So this thing was not programmed It was just told, try You just move the bat at the bottom DH: It was a real revolution at the time. So this was in 2012, 2013 where we coined these terms And the key thing about them directly from the pixels, but they weren't being told anything else. So they were being told, here are the pixels on the screen, 30,000 pixels. The system has to make sense what's going on, what it's controlling, how to get points. And that's the other nice thing They have clear objectives, So you can kind of measure very easily CA: But there was a direct line a few years later, where country of South Korea and in fact the world DH: Yeah, so this was the pinnacle of our games-playing work, where, so we'd done Atari, we'd done some more complicated games. And then we reached the pinnacle, which is what they play in Asia but it's actually more complex than chess. And the actual brute force algorithms that were used to kind of crack chess because it's a much more much more intuitive game. So even though Deep Blue beat it took another 20 years to beat the world champion at Go. And we always thought, myself and the people working if you could build a system it would have had to have done And in this case, is it basically learned for itself, by playing millions and millions ideas about Go, the right strategies. And in fact invented that the Go world had never seen before, even though we've played Go for more than, you know, 2,000 years, it's the oldest board game in existence. So, you know, it was pretty astounding. Not only did it win the match, it also came up with brand new strategies. CA: And you continued this of not even really teaching it but just setting up systems that just from first principles would play so that they could teach themselves Talk about AlphaZero and the amazing DH: So following this, by giving it all of the human games So it started that as a basic And then we wanted to see what would from literally random play. So this is what AlphaZero was. That's why it's the zero in the name, because it started And the reason we did that that was more general. So AlphaGo could only play Go, but AlphaZero could play and it did it by playing and then slowly, incrementally improving. Well, not very slowly, actually, going from random to better CA: And so this is so amazing to me. So I'm more familiar And for decades, thousands and thousands incredible chess computers. Eventually, they got better than humans. You had a moment a few years ago, where in nine hours, AlphaZero taught itself to play chess Talk about that. DH: It was a pretty incredible So we set it going on chess. And as you said, there's this rich where there are these expert systems with these chess ideas, chess algorithms. And you have this amazing, you know, I remember this day very clearly, starting off random, you go for a cup of coffee, you come back. I can still just about beat it And then you let it go And by dinner, it's the greatest chess-playing entity And, you know, it's quite amazing, like, looking at that live on something you know, like chess, and you're expert in and actually just seeing that And then you extrapolate to what it could which of course, games They were never the end in themselves. They were just the training and to make quick progress less than five years actually went CA: I mean, this is why and also kind of terrified by it. I mean, it's not just The fact that in a few hours what millions of humans over centuries That gives you pause for thought. DH: It does, I mean, It's going to be And we have to be very thoughtful CA: So talk about this use of it this is another extension where now you're turning it to something What are all the letters on the left, DH: This was always which is to use it to accelerate And actually, ever since doing I had this problem in mind one day for AI, it's called the protein-folding problem. And it's kind of like a 50-year And it's very simple to explain. Proteins are essential to life. They're the building blocks of life. Everything in your body A protein is sort of described which you can think of describing the protein, CA: And each of those letters represents DH: That's right, each of those And you can think of them there at the bottom, left, right? But in nature, in your body this string, a sequence, turns into this beautiful That's the protein. Those letters describe that shape. And that's what it looks like in nature. And the important thing the 3D structure of the protein what its function is And so the protein-folding problem is: Can you directly predict the 3D structure So literally if you give the letters on the left, can it produce the 3D And that's what AlphaFold does, CA: It's not calculating it it's looking at patterns of other and somehow learning from those patterns that this may be the way to do this? DH: So when we started this project, I thought we were ready. Once we'd cracked Go, I felt we were finally ready almost 20 years of working on this stuff to actually tackle including protein folding. And what we start with is painstakingly, over the last 40-plus years, experimental biologists around 150,000 protein structures using very complicated, you know, and other complicated And the rule of thumb is that it takes one PhD student so four or five years, But there are 200 million So you could just, you know, And so we managed to actually fold, all those 200 million proteins So that's a billion years (Applause) CA: So it's amazing to me I mean, this shows, you know, here's the model And sure enough, the protein Times 200 million. DH: And the more deeply you just start appreciating I mean, look at how beautiful And each of these things And they're almost like works of art. And it's still astounds me today the green is the ground truth, how well it can predict, is to within is how accurate the prediction is, which is what is needed and for drug design which is what AlphaFold unlocks. CA: You made a surprising decision, which was to give away the actual results DH: We open-sourced AlphaFold on a huge database the European Bioinformatics Institute. (Applause) CA: I mean, you're part of Google. Was there a phone call saying, DH: You know, I'm lucky Google's really supportive of science and understand the benefits And, you know, the argument here was that we could only ever of the potential of what This, you know, maybe like a millionth of what the scientific There's over a million and a half have used AlphaFold and its predictions. We think that's almost is making use of this now, So we'll never know probably CA: But you're continuing that's spinning out of Google DH: Isomorphic. CA: Isomorphic. Give us just a sense of the vision there. What's the vision? DH: AlphaFold is a sort Like, what are these 3D structures, and then what might they do in nature? And then if you, you know, the reason I thought about this is that this is the beginnings and also maybe helpful So if you know the shape of the protein, and then you can kind of figure out which part of the surface of the protein you're going to target And Isomorphic is extending into the chemistry space, where we can design chemical compounds that will bind exactly and also, importantly, So it doesn't have any side effects And we're building many other AI models, sort of sister models to AlphaFold to help predict, make predictions in chemistry space. CA: So we can expect to see some pretty dramatic in the coming few years. DH: I think we'll be able from years to maybe months. CA: OK. Demis, I'd like Our mutual friend, Liv Boeree, that she called the "Moloch Trap." The Moloch Trap is a situation where organizations, companies in a competitive situation that no individual running those companies I was really struck by this talk, and it's felt, as a sort of that the Moloch Trap has been shockingly So here you are with DeepMind, sort of pursuing these amazing and scientific breakthroughs, and then suddenly, OpenAI with Microsoft releases ChatGPT. And the world goes crazy you know, everyone can use it. And there's a sort of, I think Microsoft CEO &quot;Google is the 800-pound gorilla We wanted to make Google dance.&quot; How ...? And it did, Google did dance. There was a dramatic response. Your role was changed, you took over the whole Google AI effort. Products were rushed out. You know, Gemini, some part amazing, I'm not going to ask you about Gemini But it feels like this was that you and others that you wouldn't have done without Meta did something similar as well. They rushed out which is arguably This seems terrifying to me. Is it terrifying? DH: Look, it's a complicated And, first of all, I mean, First of all, we were working And in fact, obviously, Google research as you know, which was the architecture five, six years ago. And so we had many The thing was, I think what the ChatGPT and fair play to them to do that, I think somewhat surprisingly that the public were ready to, you know, the general public and actually find value in these systems. Impressive though they are, I guess, mostly you're focusing on the flaws and hallucinations and things We're thinking, you know, would anyone really find that useful And we would want them before putting them out. But interestingly, it turned out many tens of millions of people And so that was an interesting update and the science that actually, all of these amazing things are actually ready for prime time beyond the rarefied world of science. And I think that's pretty CA: So at the moment, we've got which we're all enjoying. And, you know, all this generative But let's roll the clock forward a bit. Microsoft and OpenAI or investing like 100 billion dollars into an absolute monster that can offer compute more than anything we have today. It takes like five gigawatts That's the energy of New York City So we're pumping all this energy Google, I presume is going to match DH: Well, I mean, we don't talk but you know, I think we're investing So, and that's one of the reasons we teamed up with Google back in 2014, is kind of we knew we would need a lot of compute. And that's what's transpired. And Google, you know, had CA: So Earth is building that are going to basically, that are going to power And it's all by companies How will we avoid the situation someone else has got 100 billion dollars Isn't someone going to go, &quot;Wait a sec. If we used reinforcement learning here to maybe have the AI tweak its own code and rewrite itself we might be able to catch up with what they're doing. Roll the dice, dammit, we have no choice. Otherwise we're going to lose How are we going to avoid that? DH: Yeah, well, we must avoid that, And my view is that as we we need to collaborate more. And the good news is that most know each other very well. And we talk to each other a lot And this technology is still So probably it's OK But as we get closer to AGI, we need to start thinking about the types So I'm very optimistic, of course, that's why I spent my whole life But I suspect there are many ways to build reliably and in an understandable way. And I think there are almost certainly that are unsafe or risky in some form. So I see a sort of, a kind of bottleneck which is building safe architectures And then after that, a flourishing of many that are perhaps sharded that ideally have some or at least some practical guarantees CA: Do governments have to define what a level and what is absolutely taboo? DH: Yeah, I think it's not just about -- actually I think government and academia and all parts of society to shape, along with industry labs, what that should look like and the cooperation needed to prevent that kind of runaway CA: OK, well, it sounds What's this image here? DH: That's one of my I call it, like, the tree So, you know, we've been talking and a lot of science can be boiled down to if you imagine all the knowledge as a tree of knowledge, and then maybe what we know today small subset of that. And I see AI as this tool that allows us, as scientists, to explore, And we have this idea that, like AlphaFold, where if you could crack them, it unlocks an entire new branch And that's what we try and Google DeepMind to crack those. And if we get this right, in this incredible new era curing all diseases, spreading consciousness to the stars. You know, maximum human flourishing. CA: We're out of time, but what's the last example this dream question that in your lifetime AI might take us to? DH: I mean, once AGI is built, what I'd like to use it for the fundamental nature of reality. So do experiments at the Planck scale. You know, the smallest which is almost like CA: You know, I was brought up religious. And in the Bible, there's a story that doesn't work out very well. (Laughter) Is there any scenario where we discover knowledge &quot;Humans, you may not know that.&quot; DH: Potentially. I mean, there might be But I think scientific method humans have ever come up with. You know, the enlightenment That's what's built this incredible and all the tools that we use. So I think it's the best technique we have for understanding the enormity CA: Well, Demis, you've already I think probably everyone here in your efforts to ensure in the right direction. DH: Thank you. CA: Demis Hassabis. (Applause)