- Who are these nobodies You're an inspiration. You prove that having no talent can be seen as hip and ironic. You greasy Greek bastard. We shouldn't be drilling in Alaska, we should be ringing out You used to look your age, now you don't even look your species. (audience laughing) Lisa Lampenelli. Keep it going for that guy. Wasn't he funny? Seriously, wasn't he fucking hilarious? I love the pink camouflage, Lisa. You're like General Fatton. Holy shit, look at you, you fat cunt. Who knew Lane Bryant had an army? Lisa actually has a lot in that woman that gave She's never given birth but she has had 80 fingers inside her at the same time. (audience laughing) Look at this pack of slobs up here. Gary Busey's here, kind of. How about Gary? Yeah. Gary, I guess flew in Jesus, Gary, you horse-faced lunatic. You look like Nick Nolte (audience laughing) Your teeth look like a row of urinals. Look at yourself. Every time you talk, I And I don't, Warren, what the hell are you doing here? Holy shit, Warren, he was great He came in second and then celebrated by dragging his partner to the top of the Empire State Building. It's great to see Toby Keith. Toby, I'm glad you could take time out from spitting on Mexicans Toby, you put the big in bigot. I loved your last song, you Camel Jockey Wetback, And Marsha Brady's How 'bout that, holy shit. Marsha Brady, you wrote in your book that you used to trade sex for drugs. Holy shit, as a kid, I used to fantasize about having sex with you. Who knew all I needed was an eight ball and a bus station bathroom? And speaking of bathroom stalls, where's that redneck There he is. Jeff, you look like Magnum PI with AIDS. My buddy, Nick Di Paolo is here. Nick, look at you, you You're like Fonzie with spina bifida. (audience laughing) And Reno Collier, I don't I don't know. I guess he's part of that next wave of lowbrow dip shits that'll Or maybe he's just here so Lisa Lampenelli wouldn't be the only fat And now, on to Larry the Cable Guy. This is exciting, I've gotta tell ya. I've never roasted a Maybe next year, we can Larry's whole act is a sham, like the Bible or the Holocaust. Some people say Larry's only successful 'cause he's pandering to the and blatantly and non-ironically and homophobic tendencies. Don't listen to these people, Larry. They're just bitter and jealous and right. You inbred hillbilly. You've been inside more You're like the Trojan Army. You're big, patriotic and you both came inside a giant horse. You gravy-sweating cousin-fucker. Larry fucked his first and his last one about an hour ago. He lost 50 pounds on when you shaved your back. How the fuck are you so popular? Jesus fucking Christ. This one finally broke my back. (audience cheering) Your fans can't even afford cable. They're not coming 'cause They're just, they've You could've come up with other characters your fans have never seen or Larry the Librarian or Thanks for letting me roast you, Larry. You make more money in a week than I'll make in my I've gotta tell ya. You say you've never done drugs but watching your success So thanks for ripping my soul out, you hillbilly fuck. Donnie Osmond, everybody. Wasn't she funny? What a fucking bore, holy shit. Well, you know what I do, I do like that Stewie character You made all your money 'cause you created a fucked up criminal baby. You're like Michael Lohan. (audience applauding) How cheesy is this dais? How cheesy is this dais? It's not a roast, it's a melt. Jerry Springer, George Hamilton, look at these no-talent success stories. The devil has signed so he's got carpal tunnel syndrome. Pam Anderson is here, everybody. I hope this isn't too direct, Pam, but God, I have jerked off to you a lot. You've caused me to spill more seed than Muhammad Ali at a bird feeder. (audience laughing) Pam, you have a- in there somewhere. - George Hamilton, you're like Tang, you're dry and orange and about you since 1968. Hamilton, you're like a walking tumor. Not exactly, it's a big Of course, it wouldn't be a roast without Pizza Lampenelli here, everybody. Lisa Lampenelli. Good to see ya, Lisa. I've never seen a circus And you know what, Lisa seems, she seems very confident she's very sweet. She was telling me in all four of her stomachs. You are one fat lady. You have more chins with tons of chins 'cause she's so fat and also a (beeping). And speaking of fat (beeping), Hulk Hogan's here, everybody. How about that? Hulk, I can't imagine You're an old man who dresses Keep your shirt on, bitch tits. You're 80. You had a reality show It should've been called Jerry Springer, good to see Springer, you cultural Sodomite. You have fist-fucked our civilization like Gilbert's uncle on Valentine's Day. You were an aide to Bobby Kennedy, which probably explains your I guess you like to hang around guys whose careers end on a hotel floor. (audience moaning) That's a good fucking joke, everybody. It's what we call roasting. Anyway, I'm sorry if the but that's what we do here. And now, on to the man of the happy hour. One more hand for The Hoff, everybody. It's about time. David Hasselhoff, what a legend. Hasselhoff's sitting on a lifeguard chair 'cause that's what you're most known for. I guess when we roasted Pam, she should've been sitting on a dick. That is quite a tuxedo. You look like Adam Lambert's prom date. You're huge and you were even knighted by the Queen of England. She dubbed you cirrhosis of liver. Hasselhoff, have you ever not been drunk? You used to have a car that Now you have a car that won't (audience laughing) You're such a drunk, when it lists you as a dependent. (audience laughing and cheering) You starred in Jekyll Give him a round of applause for that, it was excellent acting. You played a normal guy and then turns into a What impressive range? Maybe for your next big leap, you can go out for the part of washed up, drunken cheeseburger eater. Hasselhoff you drunk (beeping). You drink a lot, right? Your liver is so if you put your ear to your side, you can hear it go, what (audience moaning) - Oh, Jesus. - Hasselhoff, you're a good man, you're a good dad. Congratulations on being I know you've taken a lot of shit but you're not gonna remember any of it. Let's face it so good night. Thanks. John Stamos. Isn't he, she great? John played the bongos wearing a pink tank top. That couldn't have been any gayer if George Michael was on your lap stuffing crystal meth up your ass with Rupert Everett's fist. You're on ER now, John. Congratulations. You're like Susie Essman's vagina. You're almost useless but John was married to my Rebecca Romijn O'Connell. John, you lost your wife to the fat kid from &quot;Stand By Me&quot;. Holy shit. Look at you, you greasy Greek bastard. I look at you and I wonder, how can there be an energy crisis? We shouldn't be drilling in Alaska. We should be ringing out Norm MacDonald is here, one Norm's got a giant gambling problem. He's dropped more coin in a casino than Michael J. Fox at a parking meter. (audience groaning) Groany, groan, groan. Brian Posehn, look at him, We've all seen you shirtless It's hard to believe you considering how often the townspeople must chase you around with torches. The great Cloris Leachman, Cloris Leachman. Cloris is so old, she lost What are you doing here, Cloris? You're the only person You won an Oscar and nine Emmys. When it comes to winning awards, you've been more voracious than Jon Lovitz at an all the dick you can eat buffet. Jon Lovitz, you fucking gay weeble. Come on, Jon, there hasn't in the closet since Anne Frank. (audience laughing) Gilbert Gottfried's here. Gilbert recently had a baby. Who would fuck you? You have the sex appeal (audience laughing) Which brings me to the man of the hour, Bob Saget, everybody. Bog Saget. Bob, Bob you are a genital wart on the cock of American culture. Seriously, who gives a With your long neck, pointy you're like the Vlasic pickle stork. Except, instead of delivering You're like my seven-year-old son, you think cursing is hilarious your dick is the same size And where the hell are the Olsen Twins? The Olsens are like They look the same but one and the other one's been (audience groaning) He'd be cool with it, fuckers. I read an interview where as an artist. Are you fucking kidding me? As an artist? You used the phrase, as an artist? You are a vortex of artistic compromise. Charlie Sheen watches you (audience laughing) You are an artist in the same You're not an artist Bob and stop enjoying your ironic hipness that's You're not cool. Stop trying to be hip. At one point in your act you actually say, &quot;Who's your daddy? Say my name. Look me in the eye. True dat.&quot; Holy fuck, I couldn't cringe any harder if I watched my mom in a bukkake video. (audience laughing) I'm done being mean, Bob. I've met you a bunch of times. You've always been and everybody that knows Nobody ever has a bad and that's particularly surprising because you're Jewish and Thanks a lot for letting me do this. Thank you very much, Ron White, isn't he drunk, everybody? Give him a hand, seriously. He looks like Nick Nolte let himself go. How about a hand? Before I get to Foxworthy specifically, I wanna talk about all These guys are like rock stars. And by that, I mean old and boring and loaded with syphilis. The tour grossed 15 This is at a time when your fans have so many other entertainment options. They could've stayed or fucked their sisters or, you know what I mean? They had other choices but instead, they got all gussied up in their best who farted T-shirts and they and they take a hard-earned on an extra shift working the Tilt-a-Whirl or robbing a liquor store. This is money they or crystal meth and they come out, they make an extra effort to Now, speaking of abortions, good to see Larry the Cable Guy here. Jesus Christ, get her done. I saw Larry at the beach, me and Larry. And from behind, all and clumps and patches of hair. Your back looks like Lisa Seriously. Good to see Bill Engvall here. Bill, he's a prolific bastard, man. He's got seven comedy CDs out. Without Bill, Sears would Seven CDs. Bill, did you ever think of without recording it? Now my friends from of course, Colin Quinn. I noticed recently, &quot;Blue Collar TV&quot; took over &quot;Tough Crowd&quot;'s time slot. And the network told Colin understanding anything he said. And so they replaced him Now, my buddy Nick Di Paolo's here. And a lot of people say Nick's Anyway, on to our guest of honor. Mr. Jeff Foxworthy, folks. Jeff has always been an Back when everybody was doing Jeff came up with the idea of doing it in a Southern accent. Very original, a good twist. You are to comedy what Wayne I've seen you dance, you ever watch that &quot;Blue Collar TV&quot; when he dances at the end? Holy shit. Remember how GE Smith, on Saturday Night Live? You make him look like You've always stayed cutting edge, man, you really have. With that Keith Partridge haircut and that ferret growing on your lip. Jesus, that mustache and a nipple ring. What are you thinking? With your wardrobe and you look like one of the (audience laughing) You look like a guy Tonya in a '78 Nova. You put out 11 books, You've got greeting You're like the redneck Martha Stewart with a smaller (beeping). You are a billionaire. You're like Donald Trump Seriously, Jeff though, You deserve your success. And look, you made enough to live in the South but you choose to. So you're the real deal. Congratulations, man. God, you look like Lucille Ball's corpse and pushed Oh shit, what's with Lord, you've been stitched but you're still sad to look at. You're like the AIDS quilt. What a night, a couple of all going after a who's obsessed with jewelry. It's like the &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot;. (audience laughing) The great Carl Reiner's here. This is very exciting, yes. Carl, Carl. You are such a comedy icon that Joan named one of those shitty watches It's the Carl Reiner edition. It's got liver-spotted hands Mario Cantone is here. Mario, you are one tiny, Your father must've been devastated when you came out of the cupboard. (audience laughing) Brad Garrett from &quot;Everybody You are a (beeping) monster, Brad. How'd you ever get your head so far up Ray Romano's ass with And Whitney Cummings is I guess since Kathy and Joan we needed someone with no following. Whitney's a girl who to the question, hey, to get on one of these roasts? And speaking of degrading to get ahead in show Tom, it is great you can take time out from being Roseanne's Tom, you twitchy spaz, Joan actually named another after you too. It's the Tom Arnold. It never stops ticking and used to come in a giant, hairy box. And finally we get to comedy legend and irritating Jewish lady, Gilbert Gottfried is here, everybody. Gilbert, holy shit, Gilbert. You look like you smell like pee. And Gilbert's famously cheap. I'm impressed you're here, Gilbert, because when you do these things, you've gotta buy new clothes, you gotta take a week off from work, but you showed up. You tightened your belt and you came. You're like David Carridine. (audience groaning) Yes, a sympathetic figure And now it really is my honor to talk about comedy great, Joan Rivers. Joan Rivers, everybody. This is exciting. Joan, you are one irritating Jew broad. The first time I heard your What have you done to your upper lip? Did you blow a beehive? Holy shit, you look like a life raft. Seriously, you're not the only one here. All these rubber face What goes into people's heads out here? Why? Did you really, really, is that good? How much worse could your real face look than that clown mask you've You used to look your age. Now, you don't even look your species. You once said you succeeded by saying what everyone else is thinking and that's not true. It's not true. I never heard you say, holy shit! What the (beeping) did I do to my face? I look like a surprised catfish. Joan, you really are an You're absolutely hysterical. Every comic I know respects you, that's the God's honest truth. Everyone thinks you're hilarious, I think you're the best. And at your age, you're still relevant, still cool, and shit, just a few years ago. You're every man's dream. And by that, I mean every man that dreams of titty (beeping) a crocodile. (audience laughing) Congratulations, Joan. Thank you, Pillsbury Jew Boy. Jason, that was a refreshing change. These days, the only time You've really tried to hang You've had shows like &quot;Bob Those shows disappeared faster than a bowl of Percocet at Farrah Fawcett's house. You've been in more turds (audience laughing) Look at this dais, fat guys, I feel like I'm on a bus to Atlantic City. (audience laughing) Look at this, Nichelle and Betty White. Uh, I'll take women I would masturbate to 30 years ago for 1000, Alex. (audience laughing) What a cruel joke, three 30 years ago and one I wouldn't Artie Lange, you fat, drunk slop. Artie, your liver has more holes in it than Mel Gibson's apology. Your liver's so black, Lisa Lampenelli tried to get it to fuck her up the ass and never call again. Artie, your pal, George Takei is here. Sorry to pick on you, George. I know it couldn't be easy being a gay, Japanese man in the '50s. It had to be almost impossible to pronounce glory hole To our guest of honor now, the great William Shatner, everybody. Hi, William. Bill, that was quite an entrance. When I heard someone was I thought wow, the Andy Dick and Lisa Lampenelli - You're the horse. - Bill, you're not just brilliant and old and fat, you're an inspiration. You prove that having no talent can be seen as hip and ironic. You overact more than Wow, then of course there was TJ Hooker. The only thing I remember about that show was your hair and that hot Adrian Zmed. What happened to her? You're a humanitarian. You work with a foundation to bring peace to the Middle East and keep it up 'cause it's really working. It's really working. You know, one of the most surreal parts of this business is and make fun of a legend like you. You're an enormous part of my youth and you made Captain And really, honestly, no could've done more with that role. And the fact that you the best work you've done you should be dead is Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody. Jimmy Kimmel. Isn't he doughy? Really. Isn't he about to be canceled? Keep it going for Jimmy Kimmel. Wow, that was great, Jim. I've never seen you be funny on TV before. Jimmy, how the hell is That wasn't a premise to a joke, that was real question. I don't wanna say nobody watches it but more people have seen (audience laughing) By the way, Pam, Kid but he got stuck in a 20-year-old. Corolla, look at you, you Corolla, you got a mouth Every time you smile, I Corolla is an Italian word. It means, one eyebrow. &quot;The Love Lines&quot;, only in America. What a crappy show &quot;The Love Lines&quot; is. Yeah, teenagers calling in to complain about their abortions It's like listening to the messages on Andy Dick's answering machine. (audience laughing) Speaking of anal warts, good Courtney, what the hell happened to you? You had a great band, you and your career dried up faster around guys who can't (audience laughing) Good to see Eddie Griffin. Of course, Eddie Griffin. People said there wouldn't here tonight and they were right. Tommy Lee, of course it's tough to slam a guy for having a huge cock but we've all seen the sex tape, Tommy, and I know the camera adds five inches but Jesus, your cock is so huge, I had to fast forward the My five-year-old son walked Great, now I've gotta explain is being stabbed with the harpoon. Of course, that springs me to Hi, Pam. Pam, Pam, I love you, Pam. I've been a fan of yours for so long. But I've gotta say, watching was like a whole new experience for me because up until then, get gonorrhea before. That was weird. You're a vegetarian swallowing a moose cock. You're environmentally conscious but you've caused more seed to be spilled than the Department of Agriculture. I've been a fan of yours for so long and I feel terrible that you're Who are these nobodies? Who are these nobodies up People like Lisa Lampenelli. I'm sure she's gonna come But you know what? But you know what? Fuck her. You've been on the cover and you didn't have to You fucked him anyway That's right, you didn't have to. You're multi talented, you have a TV show, you're involved in lots you've even written two novels. You're busier than Courtney's pharmacist. What's with the books, Pam? You have two novels out, two novels. You've now written more I love your show, &quot;Stacked&quot;. It shows your range and that you can masturbate to a sitcom no matter how unfunny it is. I love it, &quot;Stacked&quot;, you get it? It's a double entendre. Yeah, you work in a bookstore. There's stacks there and you're stacked so we called it &quot;Stacked&quot;. That's hilarious. I love that. Okay, here's the idea, guys, she works in a jewelry store What do you think? You starring in a show is like Tom Cruise starring (audience laughing) All right. Now, I will say this, Pam, I am seriously a giant fan of yours and we're gonna make fun of you a lot here but to get to the level It really is absolute genius. People can not help but love you. People can't help but love you. You've got unbelievable talent and you're America's sweetheart. You're a Canadian but those Thank you very much. Thank you everybody. Keep it going for Katt Isn't he adorable? What a cute little kind of person he is. Holy shit, Katt, you're like Afro Sheen. Some white people have heard of you but no one knows what you do. (audience laughing) What a teeny little pimp. Man, being a pimp ain't easy, especially when you gotta to smack a bitch. This is great, Katt Williams, Flava Flav, Snoop, Ice-T. There's so many black dicks up here, I feel like we're doing this roast in Lisa Lampenelli's mouth. Ice-T is here, holy. Ice-T you (beeping) fossil. Holy shit, you're so old, the first thing you bought was your freedom. On your first album, the N word was negro. Sommore is here. Sommore, when it comes to movies, maybe you should do some less. &quot;Soul Plane&quot;, holy shit. That was such a horrible Brigitte Nielsen tried to fuck it. Brigitte Nielsen's here. Good to see you sitting up, sweetheart. I guess you're in rehab and I really hope that works out for you. But seriously, if you wanna stop repeating the disgusting things why don't you just get Your (beeping) so big, Sylvester Stallone left his career in there. (audience laughing) - He said something. - God, you are a big, ghoulish woman. I'm talking to you, Carrot Top. (audience laughing) Jesus, what happened to your face? Good to see Snoop here. (audience cheering) Snoop smoked so much hemp, Snoop, you're filled with toxins, you've killed people, from every country on the planet. You're like Chinese toothpaste. And now guest of honor, Flava Flav. This is exciting, Flav, it really is. This is an honor. I've never roasted an oily cadaver before. You're like a turd with teeth. Look at yourself. I love the crown. You look like King Lear got You are one black mother (beeping). You're like a skeleton You look like Idi Amin after on the sun. All right, Flav, well You're one of the most in the history of entertainment. And I love the Viking helmet. I guess Brigitte's not the only big, cold, Scandinavian thing you've Thank you everybody. (jolly music)