If you've ever looked up at the night sky of the wonder of watching one of these celestial humanity's history, these bright-tailed objects And yet, in the last 50 years, the and it went from them coming to visit Scientists had long wondered about the nature and were they formed? In 1986, the first probe was began to find answers. But to truly understand more physical approach would be needed. Between mission was to interact with comets in One would bring collection equipment that would icy tail, to help scientists analyse the chemical would take a more forceful approach. Rather than the second probe would crash head-first into the force of 5 tons of TNT, to see what could be And yet, although these two missions there was one comet that unexpectedly I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. the explosive story of Tempel 1, and how were needed to help discover what lay In the early 90's, comets were still a bit of been launched to investigate comets in our solar Comet in 1986. But beyond that, only 2 other in 1985, and Comet Grigg-Skjellerup in 1992. And been taken as close as 200km from some of these comets still held many mysteries. What was their from? And how had they been formed in the first hopefully answer some of these questions. It would of comets by simply looking at their surface. To dig a little deeper. Their plan was to create a which would collide with the comet at high impactor and the speed it was travelling at, they valuable information about the comet - whether its whether it had a hard, frozen shell, for instance. comet called Tempel 1, which had a nucleus 8km certain what would happen when the impactor hit - like hitting a snow-drift, and not really create scientists were eager to find out which was budget of $330 million, and named it Deep Impact. to the 1998 Hollywood film of the same name, but film had been come up with independently, around if so, as Deep Impact (the film) was about on a collision course with the earth by flying a certainly seem to be some similarities to the NASA the film. I don't entirely buy NASA's claim of a there were some differences between the film and the Earth's, and given the small size of the chance of knocking it off its current trajectory like a fly hitting the front windscreen of a be necessary to create a crater on Tempel 1, or speed and kinetic force the impactor would have enough to create the crater, which some predicted With the mission going ahead, scientists began was actually made with two parts. The payload, and the result of the impact. This second section was and housed scientific devices, solar panels, a Resolution Imager (HRI) and the Medium Resolution after the impact, as well as help with navigation. but it was still smart and housed a camera of Sensor (ITS), would take photos of Tempel 1 right information it collected to its parent Flyby, There was considerable public interest in the members of the public to submit their names to be Roughly 625,000 names were collected in this way, top of that, NASA timed the impact to take place While this may have been because it was and its proximity to the sun may have produced reason for this date was that American scientists Deep Impact launched on January 12th, 2005 on a a day of leaving the Earth's orbit, Deep Impact's which it would only do if there was a fault. This gave scientists a bit of a scare, but quickly found to be a minor programming issue. so Deep Impact thought its thrusters were Engineers corrected the issue, and Deep The spacecraft spent the next 6 months travelling time, it travelled 429 million km. It had but this was actually impressive as it had course corrections. One was so precise On April 25th, 2005, Deep Impact caught its NASA scientists couldn't manually guide Deep Deep Impact and Tempel 1 were now roughly 130 closest distance between Earth and Mars. Deep to guide it in for the final leg of the journey. from the Flyby, and positioned itself into the This was done for a few reasons. First, the front for better pictures to be taken. Second, it would resulting in greater kinetic force. And on anticipated arrival time, the impactor hit. Scientists were thrilled that they had struck travelling at 37,000 kmh, and had struck with a produced the bright flash you see here, the energy flash was much brighter than scientists expected. ironically, the success of the first part of the A large dust cloud was kicked up by the of the impact crater. Dust outgassed from the which made it hard to see the results of this interesting insights into the internal pressures of water and between 10 and 25 million kg of Fortunately, scientists were able to rely on other The collision had been observed through including Hubble, Swift, and even Still, this was a serious problem. Although the primary purpose of the Deep Impact Mission was Impact. Without images of the result, many of the like about its structure and composition. Like opened, but it had not yet been seen what to complete Deep Impact's unfinished mission. had already been launched, and, having completed serenely through space. It was about to receive Let's go back to the late 1990's, when Although by this point we had sent 6 probes not very much was known about their origins. foreign visitors to our solar system, older loose pre-solar grains of dust that orbit other only to be caught up in the sun's gravitational confirmed by travelling to one of these comets "stardust" - that surrounds them in space. By would be able to tell if it was unusual when However, this was a challenging mission. As of speed and energy. Comets travel through the kmph. While it was possible for a probe to try this had to be done without needing too would be too heavy and thus too expensive to Stardust had nothing to do with Tempel 1. For this 2. They believed that they would be able to get velocity. However, this velocity would still As you can imagine, catching even particles Although particles would likely not do too much impact it, it would do irreparable harm to the at 23,400 kmph into a surface, the odds of it incredibly small. Scientists would not learn they smashed those particles into pieces, not energy being suddenly converted into thermal what was their solution? What was their mechanism Well, much like how an airbag softens the blow scientists realised that they would need an airbag particle all at once, but would reduce its speed of crushing deceleration involved. For this, they air. Solid air. They decided to use aerogel. discovered in 1931 by Samuel Kistler when he made jelly. As you have probably seen if you have parts. Firstly, a relatively solid structure that When you add water to solid cubes of dense the wobbly substance we are all familiar the solid part of jelly would normally contract first one to remove all of the liquid from to make a jelly that was entirely filled with air. Kistler won his bet, and at the same time invented substance, as it is usually over 99% air, and yet Nowadays it tends to be made from silica from a wide range of materials. It is incredibly insulator than regular air. And importantly for just the right amount of resistance to slow down The trails left behind in the aerogel would a particle had been captured. Stardust was fitted made up of 90 blocks of aerogel 3cm thick, with which would be deployed from inside the main body would also capture dust from the interstellar about the dust in our own solar system. Once it on a Sample Return Capsule, which would be fired This SRC was 0.8x0.5m, weighed 45kg, and came and a parachute. Also onboard Stardust was a dust analyser, and a dust flux monitoring The probe launched on 7th February 1999, and spent the asteroid 5535 AnneFrank along the way, which it finally arrived at its target Comet Wild 2. Scientists had not expected much from their expectation of it to be "a rather bland However, this is not what they found. Instead, the hundreds of metres tall, cliffs, massive even on parts of the comet that were pointing be less reactive. In short, the surface of the Something else was just as notable for its body in our solar system with surfaces exposed Wild 2. This puts it in stark contrast to places time Wild 2 is thought to have existed, it surely with it. So where had these craters gone? It shows or active, reducing signs of visible craters And of course, during this flyby, Stardust had collecting dust samples. Just listen to the The samples were carefully stowed away, and upon the SRC. The angle of approach had to be just If the approach angle was too low, it would just If the angle was too high, the heat would great relief that the DC-8 NASA airplane just the right second at just the right where it was recovered, everything having And taking the samples back to the lab, scientists Comet Wild 2. It was not a visitor to our solar believed, Comet Wild 2 had not originated from By comparing the isotopic composition of the from our own solar system, it was proven that And contrary to what all the ice on its surface was formed under white-hot conditions. Chondrules among the samples Stardust collected. These are conditions and can be found in other asteroids to rethink their theory that comets formed in even if they do spend some time there. And thanks to the careful, delicate way scientists were able to find one last, Amino acids are the building blocks that make up Although this does not mean that there was weight to the idea that it was from comets such ago, that life's first building blocks found their offers a tantalising glimpse into our own origins. forgiven for thinking that Stardust's work was perfectly good spacecraft if they have more to so, when the question arose in 2006 of how NASA Stardust's name was put forward. This would prove calculated to have enough fuel to make a 6-year Tempel 1. This would represent the first time a providing an intriguing chance to see how Deep Impact only imaged about a 1/3rd of Tempel was enough to identify fascinating geological contrasted sharply with the rougher terrain around be incredibly insightful to see how these had the Sun. Stardust would even be able to take greater coverage of the rich geological history Stardust. It would be significantly cheaper to use develop and then launch something new. Stardust's cometary exploration in mind, which certainly It had all the camera equipment it needed to take was given a new name to match its new assignment: or Stardust NeXT. Of course, achieving this goal made years in advance, to conserve fuel and make This made things complicated, given that Tempel spins, once every 40 hours. So, it wasn't just meet up with Tempel 1. NASA had to make sure it the Sun and facing Stardust once Stardust flew easy to see clearly, they had to calculate all the to ensure the arrival time matched up. there would be little room for error. Incredible As such, NASA enlisted the help of dozens of little more than a tiny dot in the night sky surface features, which were indistinguishable at that its brightness fluctuated as it travelled, then brightening as the wider profile rotated a detailed model to be created with a high spins as Stardust travelled. One. Two. Three. it would potentially mean the failure of the to be perfect. Stardust travelled for years assist and multiple laps around the Sun, before would arrive at Tempel 1. The burn would alter its Stardust was now locked in. A year later, as began to detect sounds, as tiny particles began dust and small rocks into space. Stardust was tiny - only a millimetre at most - some of these Stardust; cutting through a graphite-cyanide Still, Stardust survived the barrage and on the It passed at a distance of 181 km, and took waited for another holiday for a Tempel for their initial impact. Here, on a less Scientists had to wait for hours for the images NASA saw that they'd managed another bullseye. 1 to an accuracy of a single degree. Right been left by Deep Impact's payload. The mission scientists were able to calculate that it was were predicting. From this they learned that the made from more dust than was expected, and The surface was incredibly porous. In fact, comet was actually empty space, the whole thing From analysis of the plume that had been ejected able to identify several interesting material and even organic material. While not life itself, carried to earth by comets in the past, providing Not only that, but they were able place on Tempel 1's surface. 3 pits that had A cliff face had eroded back around 20-30 surface was a dynamically changing place, how these formations had formed in the first So, Deep Impact's mission finally had closure, and the end for Deep Impact. Following in Stardust's a new mission, titled EPOXI (Extrasolar Investigation), which in 2007 saw it heading off of thousands of photos, before ultimately dropping had already done significant amounts to advance What about Stardust? After its extended mission, in its tank. So, it ran with it. Firing it to see if their models of how much fuel To its last breath, Stardust When at last all its fuel was used up, to acknowledge that it was being turned off for Comets are truly fascinating things, and the Stardust probe and the Deep Impact mission their inner composition and workings. While still their layers of enigma. We understand they are from our own solar system, and may even have led And it was human ingenuity and precision that next time you see a comet, with its beautiful tail longer be quite so mysterious, or foreboding. They it took to learn this was to catch the dust from