- [Announcer] Ladies and - Hey, Birmingham, Alabama. What's going on, everybody? Y'all doing good? Hey, hey, good to see you. Where are all the good Christians at? Make some noise. Where are the good Christians at? Oh, there you guys are. Non-Christians? People all the time ask I'm like, I've been in How do you guys not write jokes? Oh man, this city is an inspiration. Right by the hotel we're staying out, there's a store in a strip mall. This is the whole title of the store. This store just says Chinese. That's the whole title. No heading or subtitle Like what's happening in there? Like, what if there's a Oh yeah, we have that store Target. I love this place. First week in Birmingham. Listen, we need to talk Okay, this place, this is This is people's first You realize that? There's like all of our baggage claimers, there's that children's art everywhere. Have you seen this? You go to like France, Spain. It's like Sistine Chapel, Mona Lisa. You land in Birmingham, Dylan age six. Colored pencils on construction paper. It's under a lock and key. Who is stealing this? This is people's first You realize that? It's not a problem for anybody? Somebody could realize their whole life, worked their entire life be like, oh, nevermind. Just looking at this art. Like what is your country run by a child? You'd be like... I always like to figure out who's here. I always love figuring out who's here. I like, I'm gonna say here's what I know. 'Cause I grew up in church, a lot of Christian folks in here. I'm gonna say like a Bible verse. If you know it, you just finish it. It's very simple. For God so loved the world - [Audience] Son. - Okay, home team. You don't know that one, But I can do all things through - [Audience] Strength. - Thank you, wow, okay. Last week somebody said money. I was like, what do you go I'm gonna sing a song. If you know it, you just finish it. It's very simple, just to unite the crowd. Here we go. You're a good, good - [Audience] Father. Okay, no, no more. That's it, that's all I need. Okay, look at the white I love it. Ocean's next. I love Joanna Gaines. Okay, all right. That's alright, that helps me. What about we are farmers? - [Audience] Bum ba dum bum bum bum bum. - This is Alabama, that's We sing that before school in Alabama. What about, I don't know Father Abraham had many sons. Many sons had Father Abraham. I am one of them and so are you So let's just praise the Lord - No arms, put the arms down! Put the arms down! That's why people are That right there, they Oh, we should check that out. Then they drive by the playground, It's weird, it's a weird thing. I just do, Every time I come here, every time I come to 'Cause I see things 'Cause I grew up in the south. I'm from here, but I've and every time I come back, Like we were driving into town. There was like an old, like a trailer park type neighborhood. And they had like a, had a big like just Confederate flag, just like waving the flag. Just, I was like, man, why That's like, hey everybody, second place. That's like saying, hey Like you just wouldn't wave it. - [Audience] Oh! - I've been waiting a I do, I'll tell you the truth about, I'll tell you the truth about Alabama. 'Cause I love coming to Alabama. 'Cause I love in the south. You know, men here have like They know what they're doing. You know what I'm saying? Then Los Angeles, everybody just weak. No one has any skills. Like, people here have like real job. What do you do for a living, sir? Retired military, round of applause. That's what they all talk about. That's what I'm talking Yeah. What about you, sir? What do you do? - Fireman. - There's a fireman, round of applause. Everybody, he's a fireman. Fireman, I like that. What's your name, my man? - Andy. - Andy, you say when you were a kid, just a little cold outside. You're going outside to play And your mom's like, Andy, What'd you say? Nah, he'd be outside cold. He ain't no need no jacket, he's a man! Let's say you're in like middle school. You're at recess. You get in a little You come in with a bloody nose. The teacher's like, Andy, what happened? What did you say? Nothing! I don't know what happened and kids now just, 'scuse I'm a very weak person. I can't eat peanuts. I can't smell peanuts. I can't even watch Snoopy. I am very, like why the bragging? That's all I'm saying. I know allergies exist. I know it's real. I'm just saying, keep it inside. Don't know why these to take out big buildings and crowds. Just take out the cell phone towers. We'd all be dead in two days. Half of y'all wouldn't even What happened? He died in Birmingham, it was at 1%. Men are weak, everybody knows this. Women are by far the stronger sex, we can all agree on that, right? Men, we're funny 'cause we've try to act strong no matter what, like the other day my They were like, John, we're about to eat, go start the grill. I was like, all right. I was in the backyard I'm not starting a grill? Are you serious? I can just, we, I just noticed my car was smoking the other day. My dad goes, let me check the engine. I popped the trunk. My dad goes, I can fix this, I came back with the neighbors. Don't explain it, do not explain it. Listen, she doesn't get She doesn't deserve it. I'm weak, I'm the first guy to I had to call AAA 'cause I That's where I'm at. I have too much moisturizer You know, when you pump gas, you click it. And the gas pumps for you? I was at a gas station, I had to take like three breaks. No skills at all. Women are by far the stronger sex. Here's why women are because of the bathroom lines. After this show, every woman in here will I'm 35 years old, never waited If there was a line at a men's bathroom, something horrific has happened. What's going on in there? We got two sinks and a trashcan. Get those in rotations. Speed this up. Women just, they love the lines. They're just hanging out. Here's a picture of my grandson. They got they're in there. They got couches in there. Y'all helping each other zip up. What? If a man ever asked me to help zip him up, I'd call the cops, okay. Women just, she's a maid Where'd you guys meet? Bathroom line at Target. Men cannot see, men can't Women can just sit down compliment each other like, oh girl. I was in the airport. A girl came up to another She goes, hey girl, your butt looks great. The girl's like, thanks, Pilates. What, y'all can do that? Men cannot do that, okay. I tried. Not that I'm just saying, I complimented another man one time, one time I was in the airport, you know the train that takes We're all packed in their tight. It was like the holiday, the he just like, like he had a, I was like, hey man, you smell good. He just left the train. He's like, you psychopath. Men can't do it. We cannot do it. Men, everybody knows in like Everybody knows that. But we do these like these whole, like these men's retreats at churches. You ever been on one of these? Like very overly masculine. Like John, we're gonna go on Are they are there gonna be girls there? They were like, nah. I was like, nah. Like we're in the men's retreat. But we're men, we don't retreat. This weekend is Men's Advance! I was like, we don't have to do this. The whole itinerary is You're like, all right, first, we're gonna have an arm Then we're gonna grill some I was like, wouldn't it be easier if we all just forgave our dads? We don't need to do all this. Everybody's just getting weak, just weaker and weaker, go outside. Like I know God said not to judge, but I don't know if he that were gonna be on earth in 2022. Have you ever been outside? Just, oh, everywhere 'Cause we were just on the verge of death. Everywhere, no running, no walking. Here's a curb, step up. Okay. 'Cause there used to be no sign. People are tripping and dying. We gotta get a sign onto How did we even cross We just had to look and guess? I'm sorry, I get anxiety. I can't make that choice. I just walk up and intersection say, eight, seven, six, five. They don't tell you how 30 seconds? Six? I have no idea. I'm not making this choice. Go ask your grandparents. Hey granddad, at Christmas, ask him, granddad, how'd you to Well, let me tell you, son. What we would do is we and then we would just look. And then if there weren't any My granddaddy's Evel Knievel! Everywhere you go outside, You ever seen this sign? Slippery when wet! Slippery when wet! Who hasn't pieced this together yet? Wet stuff, I'm sorry, You can figure that out in the womb, like. That's not a great I can't get much traction in here, like. People just on the verge, You ever seen the sign on Attention, do not lean on the railing. Why is that there? Somebody must have. You gotta get a sign on the railing. People are dying outside of Foot Locker. You ever cross like a train track? Like a simple train track, It's like 500 yards out, 100 yards out, train track approaching. 50 yards out, train track approaching. 25 out, train track approaching. There's a ding, ding, ding. There's a horn, there's a gate. There's a light, there's a siren. If after all that, you God's will has been done I'm sorry. You were sent as an example Everywhere you go. It's and it's like I was at, I, my buddy like texted me the other day, who was at the zoo with his kids. He saw a sign at the gorilla cage. Attention, no kids in the gorilla cage. Because you know what I'm that kid got in there and Yeah, they shot the gorilla. The gorilla, what? Listen, the gorilla was at work. It was Tuesday afternoon at 1:30. He was clocked in. He was where he was supposed to be. He just comes out every day to minding his business. And then a kid got in the How would you feel if you're just typing away at the office and a Bengal tiger walked This is where I was supposed to be. I was fascinated by that story. I read the article that brings in $150 million of revenue and this gorilla was and they shot it. All I'm saying is, this kid I'm just saying. If he's 30 and working at Chipotle, we made a bad investment. All over this country, we got these signs. It's only in America. I went down to Peru on a mission trip, like with my church, we were gonna go swim in the Amazon River. The guide is like randomly walking by. He's like, hey, if you're make sure you swim in so you scare away the anacondas. What? I feel like that needs a sign. Everywhere you go, just people on the verge of death at all times. Oh, there's a phone app that came out recently, very popular. It's a breathing app. All it does is shows, inhale, It's saving lives. We got signs up all over this country trying to keep people I'm sorry. I love Jesus, but we gotta start weeding some people out. Really. I just see like I, everything I'm sorry, I try to, like you ever had like an immature thought Just sneaks right in. You try to be a good person, but sometimes it just, You've ever been like driving to work, being a responsible, mature adult. You see that cyclist on I wonder if I just like. Like, not kill him, just &quot;Share the road!&quot; &quot;Share the I don't like the cyclist. I don't like their attitude. You know, these people? We're going green, we're I was like, no, you got two DUIs, okay? This is Birmingham, Alabama. If you're on a bike at midnight, you're an alcoholic, all right. I think I always had thought And then I realized recently, I don't think I'm a good person. Does he ever just get Like, yeah, it's not the move. You know what I'm saying? I was at the phone store getting a new phone. They were like, sir, do Do you want ESPN alerts for I was like, yes. They were like, you want Amber I was like, nah, I'm good. Here's when I knew I wasn't a good person. I was at the airport. I boarded the plane. I was in the exit row, exit row. They were like, sir, They didn't do it like You're in the exit row. They were like, sir, Are you willing and able to I was like, yes, but I'm not helping these monsters. Are you serious? I'm by the door. I'm out first, okay. Matter of fact, I might This guy's watching a Do we want him? Do we want him? This guy's clipping his toenails. We're not bringing him, not bringing him. You telling me that this plane is burning, sinking over the Atlantic I'm the guy two minutes ago, an old lady was trying to put her bag in the overhead compartment. I acted like I was asleep. I just don't like the I just can't, the guy next to me, it was a cross country flight. The guy next to me, three hour flight. No headphones, no computer, no cell phone, no magazine, nothing. Three hours, just. I was like, what are you just happy? You just okay with your thoughts? I need Spotify to get I don't like this at all. I need diversions. I get my cell phone everywhere I go. You ever sat down to go to the bathroom, forget your cell phone? What I'm even doing in here? What's the point? It used to be like fun to go outside. It was an exploration. It was an adventure. Go to the post office, it's fun. It became so terrible. They created stamps.com to the house. Used to be go to the mall, it was fun. Now it's Amazon to the house. No one wants to go outside. Go to the gym, it's fun. P90X to the house. No one likes to leave. 'Cause everything outside is terrible. First of all, let me just say, when you get to the front can you just be ready to order, please? Just be ready to order. These people look like they just step through the closet at Narnia. Oh! What are you doing? It's McDonald's, go! All I'm trying to do I'm just trying to figure out how long to put the credit card into the machine. Y'all just make up your minds, please? You get a tank of gas. You gotta put that thing in so fast. Sir, put it in fast, quickly. You better put that thing in faster? No. Then you go inside to get Oh, is there a chip in there, sir? Is there a chip? Put in the gap, do not swipe it. Put in the chip, sir, put in the gap. You put in the chip. Wait for it, wait, wait. They go on break. They're not even there anymore. Wait, wait. Oh, what, what is this? A tornado warning or a chip reader? Take it out now! You ever taken it out too early? Oh. They were thrilled you took Back of the line. What? Then you gotta sign the receipt. You've ever been here? Sir, receipt, signature. We need it. You got a headache. You're like, well I just I'm coming for some Tylenol. Sir, do you wanna tank a gas with this? No. Okay, do you wanna car wash? No, okay. You on the rewards program? No. All right, I don't. Do you wanna give a dollar to? No. I got a candy bar one you wanna donate a dollar to diabetes? I was like, ooh. And then you gotta sign the receipt. Sir, receipt, signature, we need it. You can't leave until you sign a receipt. Here's everyone's receipt signature. What maniac is just in Walgreens? Go, what are we doing in here? The credit card was the credit card was supposed to make your life so much easier. It's way harder. I have this relationship with my bank. First of all, they They got John, we've had some in your account. I was like, what happened? They're like, apparently somebody transferred some money to savings. I was like true but hurtful, okay. Your bank was supposed to, the credit card was supposed It's way harder, so complicated. I got a parking ticket the Got on the internet to try to pay, got to the website, entered Three digit code, name, I got to the end. There's like squiggly number, I was like, who exactly is trying to sneak onto this website and pay What are we doing? Everything drives me nuts. And I can't go outside because the world is being run by minimum wage employees. I'm sorry, I used to be one I mean, raise minimum wage. Listen, when's the last in a line at a Wendy's you know what? This guy needs to be If we got extra money let's give it to the nurses We'll start there. Not Ethan, who's smoking We don't. I just can't. I just can't with life. I go outside. I just see, everybody's like John, how's all this funny It happens to everybody, my See, my whole life. I've seen the same stuff y'all do, but just interpret it in a Like, the other day I saw by a cop on a horse. No, hold on. You guys have normal thoughts. You're like great, I was just like, that's gonna be an awkward ride back to the station. That thought just snuck in. Just. How does it work? That's my question. My whole life has been happening. I saw, it was at a parking I pulled all the way up front It said, expectant mothers parking. You ever seen this? What? Who? You guys are like, great, they I was just like, who's enforcing this? That's a nice spot right up front. Excuse me, ma'am you're not showing, pee on this stick please, okay. I need a pregnancy test I need it. Oh really, John? You gonna make fun of expecting mothers? We need it. This baby's the size of an avocado. Oh really? I just ate a burrito I need a spot, okay. Oh, you're pregnant. What's his name? Pico de Gallo! I just see. I've always been seeing, even in the most like spiritual times, I mess up sometime like we have, at our church, we have this where you stand up and meet You know what this is, right? I shook this lady's hand next to me. She goes, oh, your hands are warm. I was like, yeah, I was like, I gotta find a new church. We were in Egypt on the Nile like a biblical, like exploration, a tour. You know what I'm saying? This very spiritual moment. Very significant. We were on the Nile River hey, we're gonna do baptisms. I was like, excuse me, I love Jesus but my health is $4,000, okay. I'm not trying to be baptized in the name of the Father, Son, All right? I ain't Methodist, but I am today. Sprinkle me, you know what I'm saying? My brain has just always worked different. I just see the same stuff. I don't know why it's been happening. I see the same stuff. I was in McDonald's recently. And they have Monopoly. You know, when they play Monopoly? You guys have normal thoughts. Perfect, we can win a I was like, Monopoly? Really, McDonald's? Seems a little disrespectful You think anyone in here knows anything about home ownership or mortgages? Oh, that's a great joke. Get outta here, it's funny. We need to stop playing Monopoly. Start playing Clue in here. That's what we need to be doing. I don't know why my brain My mom was like trying to encourage me the She goes, John, listen, I get an inspirational quote for you. John, comparison is the thief of joy. You ever heard that? Comparison is the thief of joy. I was like, yeah. Comparing yourself to people You know, when you need to start doing? Compare yourself to worse people. That is, ha ha, that is the source of joy. You feel a little chubby, go to Golden Corral, you'll feel great. It's so much better, it's easier that way, you know what I'm saying? I just see things different, always have. You ever seen this sign in a neighborhood? Drive like your kids live here. Drive, drive like your I was like, what if you hate your kids? Why don't you stop putting signs Karen and start How about you do that? Matter of fact, make it easier. Just tell your kids play like there's cars driving through this neighborhood. I can't take it. I just can't take the weakness. Me included, I got no skills either, but the weakness going Like I was at a church the other day. They had gluten-free communion at church. Who's dying at communion. Can you imagine getting to Heaven? What happened? Ah, communion got me. What? Like if you got up to this is not in the Bible, but I think it's funny that you gotta just tell him how you died. That'd be, it's not in the Bible, but I just thought it'd be a funny idea. Like if you got up, they'd Like, I died of malaria. I was a missionary in Africa. They'd be like, welcome Who's next? I got shot in China smuggling Welcome in, we got a spot for you. I don't think anyone from What happened to you? I had an anxiety attack 'cause Just too weak, dude. Remember, back in the day church? You grew up in church, sir? Remember back in the A chunk of bread. You used to have to chew. Remember that? He's like. You wanna go to lunch? Nah, I'm good. We just had communion, I'm straight. Then it turned into a cracker. It's a cracker. Now, it's a cracker. It's a cracker. Then it turned into a wafer. We didn't vote on it or Now, it's a wafer. I would not be surprised if hey, we're just gonna put a piece of bread up on the screen, okay? Just look at it and take a If you're allergic, there's Figure that out. I'm sorry, I can't do it, I just can't. That's why I hope we don't go to war. I hope we do not have to ever go to war. I think, first of all, We got the best military on planet earth. United States, we got the best, yeah! All there, yeah, yes. True, true, but listen, with this group of 18 to 25 year olds, we got running around this country. Just a bunch of life coaches I don't wanna get my shoes dirty. You ever been shot? No, I've been triggered. Okay. That it, listen, it's That is how this country was built. This country was built, 18 protecting our freedom. Probably not like that. Don't come into our country. My jeans are too skinny for that. That's like, imagine if the If Civil War happened in 2000, win, like win the battle? We wouldn't even make it to the field. All right, man, tomorrow we march. What is that, ragweed out there? It looks like a lot of pollen Can we delay the battle till April? I am very sensitive. I did not bring my inhaler. Just in the bunker taking Use the Gettysburg filter! I haven't seen the other soldiers, but they've tweeted me Could you imagine that? We wouldn't even make, all All right, got a rifle. Everybody get a shield. Nah, I'll just use essential oils. White people, look at me. We have gotta stop with That is just entertainment I'm sorry. Ask any black woman. If it ain't coconut oil, it Eucalyptus on my ear helps No it doesn't, okay. People always get mad at me Sometimes one lady emailed my website, like tell John that Jesus Ask him how he feels about that. He probably doesn't read the Bible, but if he did, he know about I was like, okay, he got that for a gift Not his first birthday. His birthday. Yeah, he's got, okay. What are you, the mayor? This joke's wrong. Okay, sir. I think that we could have figured it out. His birth! He got it for a gift for the That's not any better. I'm just saying he's not You're acting like Jesus was sliding into people's Facebook messages. Like, hey girl, I got Haven't seen you since high That's what these thoughts. They come into my head. I can't get rid of 'em. That's why I couldn't be a pastor. My dad is a pastor. I could not be, I don't have the gift. You know what I'm saying? First of all, let me just pay attention on Sunday, whenever your pastor is as a pastor's kid, let that story did not happen like that. My dad is like, my son John My son John is a gift from Jesus. I'm like dad, last night you Pastor's kids are bad. Everybody knows pastor's kids but pastors used to be able Like back in the nineties? You haven't seen my son in a Now, I'll follow your son on Instagram. That kid is in rehab, okay. I just don't have the gift. I don't have the empathy, the You ever bought like a pair of shoes? You see that silica gel package on there? What's it say on there? - [Audience] Do not eat. - Who's eating these? How many people have died? We gotta get a sign up on the gel! People are dying, buying Nikes and dying. What? Like, if I was a preacher, You came forward for prayer. And you're like, can I get some prayer? I'm sick. I'll be like, what happened? You're like, well, last night and I accidentally ate the gel. I'd be like, get outta my church. People just weak everywhere. Those Old Testament Bible Never, could you imagine? God's like, we're gonna with milk and honey. If that was today, we're Have any bees been harmed in Are these free-range bees? That's how I read the stories. I just read them like in a And like, you know what? It's funny that whenever they never, like, they never have a name. Like wherever He meets them, it's just the description That's their name for the rest Jesus and the woman at the well. You don't think she's upset at that? First of all, my name's Hannah. Okay, could you put that in there? I was at the well, but I was at the store. I was at the house. I was stopped by the field. I am like, so that's not how Jesus and the man with leprosy. You don't think he appreciates it? My name's Matt. Who? Matt. Man with leprosy. Oh, what's up, dude? What if, when Jesus came back, your name for the rest of history is just wherever He saw you. Jesus and the man in the Jesus and the prostitutes. They don't get names? Okay, thanks for the feedback. I just read the stories Just funny ideas come to me. Like the story of Lazarus. You know that story? You guys know that story? Who knows it, you know it up front? Policeman, you know it? Fireman? I bet. Do you know it, sir? What do you do for a living? Lawyer, okay, front row, got it. Anyway, that's the show, guys, thanks. I'm just kidding, you You're a lawyer and Christian? Wow, okay. I'm joking, I'm joking. I didn't mean it. I take it, I'm sorry. I kid. You know the story, okay, sorry. How does it go? - Lazarus died. - Lazarus died, Jesus It's a miracle, right? Everyone was like Jesus It's great, right? Inspirational story. All the loved ones are It's a miracle for everyone Read the story. He was dead for four days in Heaven. Just up there decorating his mansion. Okay, this is awesome. I can't believe we're finally here. This is great. He had a bum knee, that was fixed. He's walking better, feeling good. You know what I'm saying? Shooting hoops with the disciples. What's up, fellas? Y'all chill? Not the disciples, they weren't there yet. Noah, Abraham. Sorry, what's up? I can't believe it, it's incredible, we're in Worshiping, no more We finally made it, just in the mansion. Excuse me, is Lazarus here? He comes around the corner. Yep. Oh, man. Listen, we don't normally do this, but, oh man, listen, we gotta send you back. Back to the middle east with I guarantee Lazarus was up in Heaven. watching that whole scene go down. He saw Jesus walking over to his house. He's like, no! It said they were best friends. Jesus and Lazarus were best friends. You ever read a story when he came back? I just see the world I try not to judge It really, it's just like, I just, you have these thoughts that Ugh, you know what I'm saying? Like you try to be a good Like, I don't judge anyone for murder. I don't judge anyone for murder. I never murdered anyone but You ever had a murder thought sneak in? Like, I read a story on Facebook, about a guy that got cut off in traffic, cut off in traffic, caught up drug him out of his car, and beat him with a shower curtain rod. And everybody was like, everybody send him to jail. I was like, hold on, we don't know what kind of First of all, why did he have a shower curtain rod in his car? I'll tell you exactly what happened. It was a Saturday afternoon. He went to Home Depot, picked for his wife, came home. She was like, wrong size! Had to go back. Picked up a second one, came back. Wrong color! Had to go back, got cut off. And he was like, that's it. You been right there? Christian or not, you I am right. 'Cause I don't judge you. I try not to judge anyone that Okay? I don't judge anyone that's gay. I'm not gay myself. But I saw Zach Efron And I was like, huh. Maybe this is how it starts. I'm just saying. I don't judge. There's an opportunity I just can't do it. I don't judge anyone that's outta shape. It's hard to stay in shape. If you wanna go to Whole Foods, you gotta pass seven Taco Go into McDonald's, try to eat healthy. You know what? Diet starts Monday. You go into McDonald's. Let me get a salad. They'll be like what? They don't even know He wants a salad. They finally found it. Okay, sir, that'll be $14. What? You'll be like? Ah, nevermind, just lemme They're like, oh they're free today. What? Get an orange juice. Go buy an orange juice. You want an orange juice? Here you go, $6. Enjoy that orange juice, sir. My God, nevermind, let me get a Coke. Oh, you want a Coke? Okay, here you go. That thing is so big, you They don't even have small Coke. They don't have it anymore. What you want large or wheelbarrow? What you want? It's impossible to stay healthy. It's so easy to be on. That's like, I tried to take $45 an hour for yoga. If you wanna sit on your couch for a month and watch Netflix, that'll cost $12. Like honestly, honestly, those movies, have you seen those Netflix movies? Cost trillions, trillions of. Yoga, you're sitting on a wood floor trying not to fart for an hour. Oh Jesus, please keep this one in, Jesus. You ever had to pray something like that? Oh, you had to apologize the next morning. I'm sorry, Jesus I didn't mean that one. I realize that you can, any maniacal thing you want on Facebook, as long as you end it That's all you gotta do. Anything you want, headed over to burn it down. #PrayersAppreciated. Six white girls in the comments. Yes, he deserved it. Praying for you, keep us Some things you can't pray for. You know what I'm saying? On trial for murder, #PrayersAppreciated. What? You guys married up front? Who's married? Are you guys married? Where'd you guys meet? - Birmingham. - Birmingham? Just on the streets? You've been telling people Birmingham, move on! Okay. You were a friend or a blind date? You went a blind date? Stellar! Round of applause. Blind date, I like that. I like that. And this is before social media or no? So it's really blind. Yeah, it's not, blind Like, let me see her Instagram. I need to look her up. You know what I'm saying? I think everybody should Everybody. Everybody, it's 2022. Everybody, you do everything Why people make fun, I Oh, John dates online. What are you gonna do, Look for attractive women? What are you, a caveman? Get on the internet, they're all there. It's very organized. There's categories. Date online. What are you doing? Upload a profile photo. Let that thing go to work What? I'm just saying it's more efficient. Everyone should be dating online. Dating in-person is like going to every, you're looking for a new car. You visit every car Your get home exhausted. Your roommate's like, hey, you know, those cars are on the internet. Same thing. It's easy. You can search age, ...previous owners? It's on. Can I get one with less mileage? Here you go. It's on the site, it's easier. That's all I'm saying. Just, that was across the line. Just take it like easy. Like, where'd you propose, sir? Where'd you guys propose? Where'd you propose? - Atlanta. - Atlanta, what is with Where'd you get married? Nashville! Okay, sir. We get it. Just don't, listen, if just please do us all a favor. Don't set out a save the date. Okay, just stop that. Okay, just text us. We'll put it in the calendar. Yeah, thank you. We'll put it in the calendar. We don't need, first of all, I don't need to stare at your Okay, I don't need to do. They're coming in magnet form. Have you seen these in the magnets? You want me to put this on my fridge? You know, when I go to my fridge? When I'm sad! I don't need to stare at your for a Hot Pocket after a And every single one, just the middle of a wheat field, forehead touching, eyes closed. Why are you in a wheat field? You work at T-Mobile, Travis. What? And these weddings. I'm sorry, but these are getting longer and longer 'cause the girls have these dreams of what they want in their weddings. And then they go to other weddings and they like take things. Oh, I love that, Mason jars! Ah! I don't know, whatever, yeah. They just get longer and longer. You go to a Christian wedding now. Welcome in, stand, be seated, let's pray. Let's cut the ribbon, let's pour the sand. Let's light the candle. We're taking communion, We're taking an offering? It's unbelievable, they take forever. I was at a wedding, it had Love is patient, love is kind. I was like, love needs some This couple, I'm not making this up. I don't know if, you This couple goes as an our first active service as a couple, we are gonna wash each other's feet. Do not do this, okay. This is the most disgusting He took off his boot. You could smell it in a third row. Like he washed her feet, Then she washed his. Took off this boot, like You know what I'm saying? He got caught on his toenail. She like washing his toes. But those like finger toes those tarantula toes just at any point, ah, scrubbing I was like, no wonder Jesus He went to one Christian wedding. He was like, I can't take this. That was His first miracle. That was His first miracle on earth. Listen, I don't know if this is true, but I don't think He was supposed to start for another couple years. They'd be like, listen, I hate to do this, but we need a miracle down here. This wedding is horrible. God's like, you need a No, 175 gallons! I don't care how Christian you are. Somebody who's getting He's like, listen, I, listen, if you put this story in the book, it's gonna cause problems Just everywhere. Christians, we're weird. We just do weird stuff and plus, I got just one favor to ask. Is if I could just say anything. When you get married, don't sing a Christian It's uncomfortable, okay? This is a love song. A human wrote a worship And now the couple is You ever been to one of these? You don't know what Is this about Heaven or the wedding night? What? You just at a Christian wedding. I can only imagine What my eyes will see Will I sing hallelujah Probably, probably. I just ruined that song Will I able to speak at all Okay, sorry, sorry, sorry. I don't know where these They sneak in. Christians, we're doing too much. We're doing too much these days. Every people, we speak our own language. People don't even know People walk in brand-new to church. We're gonna wash you in the blood. I'm calling the cops. What? A lady in my church recently told me she was gonna bathe me in prayer. Listen, no offense, I don't in any sentence together. I had a show in Houston a while back, a show in Houston was sold out. Big arena, show was awesome. It was, and somebody called A bomb threat. Yeah, I was feeling good getting extra credit, I was, gonna be able to go, she goes, John heard about the I prayed a hedge of protection. I messaged her back. I go, we're gonna need more than that. I feel like in the rock, paper, scissors of prayer request, bombs You wanna call in the FBI? No, we got some shrubbery Just very basic ideas that but no one's ever questioned it. You know what I'm saying? Like footprints in the sand? What is this? John, footprints in the sand. I got it tattooed on my Listen, look at me. If you're ever walking along the beach and you see two sets of footprints that have turned into one? Somebody just got murdered, okay. There was a dead body buried here, okay? Call the police, this Just very basic ideas, Like, The Five Love Languages. You know this book? That's not the time to Just a very basic ideas like, ever. It took, first of all, it took you 17 years of marriage to figure out your wife John, I've been reading this book. Turns out my wife likes it Yeah, she does! She doesn't like massage There's very basic ideas like Dave Ramsey. You know, Dave Ramsey? Just very, hmm, I'm nervous Every time I go home, Father, Son, Holy Spirit, Dave Ramsey, ha! I was like, this guy's a genius. Better read his book. All right, what do we do first, Dave? Save $1,000. Okay, what do we do second? Don't spend money you don't have! Who is this financial wizard? I can make that joke. Listen, I can make that joke. I used to date a girl that She was very impressed. I kept all my credit cards It was very. That joke was not for everyone. We just do very basic stuff, and like the Christian radio station. Everybody knows the Christian radio. They got a station in town? 93.7, this woman was on it, 93.7! You work there? You work there? You just love it. Love it. I don't like, the Christian radio station is just funny 'cause they're They're always giving away tickets. Text in for tickets! They always do this. Text in for tickets! But don't text and drive! Excuse me, where do you think You think we're all sitting at home, gathered around the fireplace? Hey, shut up, kids! I'm trying to hear Skip We're in the car! We're all in the car! You think I'm pulling for God's Not Dead 7 tickets? Whatever number we're on, I don't know. We had a Drake concert in town There's like a ticket My friend Rachel texted me. She's like, hey, I'm trying Can you pray for me? I was like, I don't think it's God's plan. You ever had anyone ask you to You're just like, I You know? I love Jesus, but like I'm not praying for your sick cat, okay. I'm sorry. Dog, maybe, okay. Not a cat, okay. They cost $20. Answer your own prayer request. I'm not using one of mine on you. That's not how it works. But I'm just saying. Like a lady came up in she goes, can you pray for our son? I was like, what is he, sick? He's in the hospital? What's going on? They go, no tomorrow, he's in the finals of a karate tournament. How am I supposed to pray for that? Jesus be with all the orphans Also, you know Skyler? Yeah, he's in the finals If this was the semifinals, but this is the finals. We just ask that when he walks would you just direct his feet to kick that child in the face? Just direct his knee into Being the great physician you are and render him unconscious, please. Do your will in his life, okay Like I'm not like my aunt, God bless her. She lives down in Florida. There was a hurricane, came to town. She texted, she goes, hey John, there's a We're fine, don't worry about us. But our neighbors have a $5 and they're very concerned No. How am I supposed to pray for that? Jesus be with all the orphans Also, you know the Goldsteins? Yeah, from Boca Raton? What's that build your house on the rock? Nah, they put it right on the sand. Listen, we just ask, this is tough. But when those flood waters would you just direct those waters around their house to other I ain't praying for that. Something like, one time, a couple at my church They said, they were I was like, how am I I'm not doing this bit. It is, though. Those, you know, those to brag that are saying You know these people that They're creeping everybody out. We're trying. Yeah. We are really trying. You wanna hang out this weekend? Not this weekend! You gotta start laughing. And especially this, everybody I just, I was always like a, my parents were always with the Bible growing up. You know what I'm saying? Not with it, just like with the stories, like John, do you think Jesus at the dinner table? You think Jesus would hit his brother? I'd be like, probably not, but I don't think Mary in the car to go get a pedicure. So, you just gotta start laughing. I was always like, just That's our only message. Take laughter with you, please. My middle name. It's funny 'cause comedy John B. Crist on all My middle name, believe True story. He was an old, he's a You guys know that? You guys didn't know that. Did you, check your heart. My middle name is Barack. Difference is I got a birth But I'm saying. Oh, I knew that was gonna work in Alabama. I'm back! I did both sides. We're even, it cancels out, it's cool. Just like take laughter with you. I was always like making I was very like, even I in the family. Like, my last name was pronounced Crist. Crist is how you pronounce my last name. Telemarketers like would They'll be like, is Mr. Christ there? I'll oh, like, oh, give me that phone. This is my time to shine. I live for it. I was like, hello? Is Mr. Christ there? Nah, He's gone. Where's he at? I don't know. He left like 2,000 years ago. When's he gonna be back? I don't know, He told us Alabama. Thank you so much. My name is John Crist. You guys have been fantastic. - [Announcer] Thank you very much.