The city of Detroit today Property values are And if we're going to all, now is the time to do After a long cycle of remaking the city piece by As a Detroit resident, you city that I live in really We are funding and housing the country. We have so many projects of noise, a lot of dust. People are leaving the city. A lot of Black people are What you call redevelopment These moves could foreshadow factory towns. When a city experiences bad property values decline. With a decline, to a certain Well, it's cheap to buy redevelop it. So why didn't That was the big mystery. Are these new developments And what do residents think downtown? Detroit, Michigan was once auto industry. Being on the river, they access to coal from the Minnesota. And so it was for what was going on in manufacturing. Just about 640,000 people That's a huge decline from At its height, Detroit's 2 million people, and we that reflects that. And now literally houses one third are some challenges that necessarily the same tax the infrastructure that's People from around the world in car factories. We think of the assembly and certainly that's the But it also turns out that population, year after they also had to line tracks of housing. Certainly, things peak in As global trade became more century, Detroit's economy This loss of jobs cycles of social unrest in Deadly riots broke out in people left for the suburbs It wasn't that there were city or one over there that disuse. But it was very widespread literally in the of the largest auto But with the population infrastructure staying in the city. Cumulatively, time. Since the peak, very little New construction of homes since 1950. Over the years, the city blighted structures and The city also still has its was built largely by the The Federal Highway quite frankly, accelerate forth from the suburbs to through neighborhoods and country. And invariably, highways cut through populated by Black and It's a sad story because and ultimately eradicated freeway called I-375. It destroyed a few Paradise Valley, and that community. What stands freeway, which is a very have different exactly look the same. And I grew up in one of Elmwood Park next to the And so I think for folks mindful of that history. Scientists know that the can worsen air quality in noise pollution. Local the highway could create a newcomers. Construction according to state You know, it'll be, quite opportunity to redress the in our city. As we're reimagining how people and supports life, acknowledge that past and make the same mistakes. Others in the city are more The redevelopment of an with the expressway, but why at this point is it A small but mighty going up fast in downtown At the same time, rents concerns over The biggest annoyance that I the developers are coming they're saving the have people that have been They have some pluses and Pluses being that they're things to do in the city where you can feel more . Cons would be that a lot of feel out of place. Many of the changes underway billionaire investor Dan Here's the executive philanthropies. So back in 2010, Dan made a bring the family of of the city of Detroit to You know, both from a from a community process was, we can make an bringing jobs to the city The typical job in the city many of those workers Residents of the city only much less than the national Affordability has become a We believe in a city where healthy, stable housing and its property values city of Detroit's property at the bigger picture, are The issues have to do with Just hundreds of homes were past decade and most were the typical Detroiter. That does make it affordable housing because apartments at 80% of AMI outside the affordability average Detroiter. So developers are trying to affordability. Now the literally today in 2022 is gone through the roof over principally during COVID, really. But it has certain forms of housing. While this new round of people continue to leave Economists believe that the ultimately what fueled bankruptcy. In July 2013, the city of municipal bankruptcy. With the decline of come with challenging times From the city of Detroit's entering the largest history, and that meant a pensioners and for our generally. Detroit's filing contained liabilities. Economists financing of public were the primary causes of So the city was saying its and the ability to manage big scale that was put in You had an inability to In a vibrant Detroit, a employees with a large tax That, too, then became a on Detroit, until a 13 months after the initial provided a bailout loan to bankruptcy. As the city of Detroit goes, Michigan. So the state of continue to do everything administration. We were not but our administration has taken every opportunity to the city of Detroit know are going to invest in The Federal Government also 15,000 blighted structures of the bankruptcy and Bailouts for two of the prevented even bigger You know, right now, we're bit. And also, many of the some of the neighborhoods That puts some challenges In the four state budgets have negotiated and passed invested more in K-12 history of the state of money for Detroit Public the largest school district more investments in their investments in the support them, and more that are available to them positioned to be And we think that those investments, in addition to investments that we've that really sets the table and to go forward and to Detroit today has turned raising taxes. New revenue is coming in sports betting. The city inflating property value cash from its citizens. In response, the city told rates in the city are high number of low value Some of this public money companies like Bedrock by the billionaire Dan of his new buildings million tax abatement from Bedrock's CEO told CNBC the council was consistent with developments within significant tax rates. Dan Gilbert's philanthropic Detroit, earning him both Dan Gilbert doesn't need a to build this building. It is a big business and business, but it supports Detroit's financial future forward. A budget includes a doozy in the City revenues could fall The city says that these and that it will continue restraint. As inflation sets in, many face insurmountable price We can do this in a way that displacement, but that enables people to stay in in, in the neighborhood not be forced to move home or their community or there. The city is diversifying retaining a strong blue could promote economic With any luck, these new avoid repeating the city's Detroit was world famous. For it to decline meant that city that was a beacon of globally. You could see the parts left behind and just not on. So people don't really A lot of people looked at saw the bankruptcy because and strange. But once you look past really fighting every day best place it possibly can A lot of people, I think, down here. I think you have yourself. We've got a lot of things The city is buzzing. When it comes to the city of here or you can hear about So which one are you going