November 22, 1963- a warm, sunny day in Moments later, the President Two days later, the man responsible Jack Ruby, descended into an unfathomable mental And as you'll see today, many other JFK assassination quickly bit the dust. So, what happened to Jack Ruby? How come he lost done a lot of research on this topic, and a lot of but does say some things look out of the ordinary. come out after researching the Manson he said this about Ruby's meeting with Louis time denied he was working with the CIA on mind important finding is that a CIA contracted that witness' doctor right before he testified The problem is, no one who worked It would have remained a complete secret had the We know that just before Ruby was West visited him in his jail cell. No other mad and was a paranoid, rambling mess of a man. wrote to the CIA's mind control master, Sidney insanity in people without their awareness." strange things happened. The police pinned him to "What am I doing here? What are you guys jumping of himself. A psychiatrist later said that Ruby amnesia." A fugue state is characterized by having a kind of breakdown where Remember no one had any idea that West had West tried very hard to get involved with Ruby, him on the case. According to documents that were West had been asked by "someone" to At first, the judge refused to give West access himself in the case. It was thought that perhaps Ruby recall the day he shot Oswald. On April 26, Not long after, West came out of Ruby's cell and break. West said that Ruby was "positively know, what happened in that cell. Ruby was hearing things and seeing things, because he thought that all Jews in the US said he'd seen his brother, "tortured, horribly outside the jail." West wrote that Ruby could boiled alive. It sounded like a really bad trip. came to the same conclusion. He had suddenly gone West had seen him had said he was absolutely my own findings make it clear that there has since these earlier studies were carried out." he had met with West was astounded by the change. there was a possibility that someone had done powerful drugs. He wrote, "The possibility but is considered unlikely because Obviously, Beavers could not have had an inkling powerful drugs on unwitting victims and tried what if he had known about West's involvement would have looked into the matter further. was visited by Doctor Werner Tuteur in 1965. He so that they could be submitted to the court. West It said, "There is considerable guilt Why did West expunge that line? Did he We just don't know, but there is a possibility know, after all, the CIA wasn't exactly Now listen to how three men all walked into a 5. Enter at your own risk some acclaim for writing "Three Days in Dallas" Ruby shooting Oswald. He was one of few people Ruby's apartment right after he shot Oswald. Long Beach police HQ and he was shot. The gun of a accidentally, gone off and a bullet had entered The officer said he had dropped the gun. no way that Wiggins was telling the truth. He but had been playing around with It's believed Hunter was and that's why his death is seen as suspicious Ruby had been living with a man named George so this is very much a fact. Senator "He was a good, sound American citizen, and He never messed around politically at all. The the nightlife, you know, his club, his It was because of Senator that Hunter was inside was Dallas Times Herald journalist, On 21st September 1964, while writing a book on sources say that he had been karate chopped to the No one knows what happened, although Time magazine conspiracy by saying the journalist was well-known the time said the motive was somehow connected We found a news clipping from back then with the police captain said this in the report, "He could have fallen and struck his neck on a table or a The apartment had been ransacked and there were was a burglary that had gone wrong, although with notes the journalist had written about One year later, Howard also died. His death was quick to point out, there was never an autopsy. massive coronary infection, stating, "Mr. Howard law practice." He was just 48. not only men tied to the case died. One journalist actually got to chat with She was not so sure about the conclusions and she let that be known. She also published were officially released to the public. On November 8, 1965, she was found dead in she had written that the CIA and the mafia had she was a CIA asset. After the assassination, she crack the case. She said to one person, "In five By all accounts, she had given the first her friend and the wife of the ambassador it was determined she had died from an overdose of she was found in a room she didn't go in often. finished and her reading glasses, which she As for Florence Smith, did she have those after Kilgalfen of a cerebral hemorrhage. She she had reportedly been ill for some time There is evidence that Smith was and it has never been revealed where the New illness and stay in hospital. That's just This next one has had conspiracy theorists talking that just weren't there. Then there were the brothers Edward Benavides witnesses who saw police officer J.D. Some sources say that he testified that but from what we can see, he just gave a vague Some sources say that a dark presence feared so he needed to be taken out. But he wasn't was shot in a tavern in Dallas. But, and this is Commission had people testify in court. he was shot during the investigation, but Indeed, he was murdered on February 16, 1965. accidentally by someone who wanted to kill could say is the type of thing to start Now let's look at how one official 2. The Insiders worked for the CIA have extensive and know that his own team had done the According to some books, after the "You're going to Spain? That's the best thing This country is too dangerous for me now. I've my life. Oswald is a patsy. They set him up. outrageous. They've killed the President!" but then the CIA it has to be said has always that Underhill worked in the Military Intelligence stated by credible sources that he did actually Shortly after, he was found dead in his house. of Public Health, his Certificate of Death, dated an automatic pistol." Some people have remarked the gun was discovered in his left hand. He was maybe he was an unorthodox kind of guy. Now we turn to the FBI and an agent serious anti-Communist who later went agency. He was accused by one of his colleagues job. This guy told a lot of people about that Bannister died soon after in 1964, 1. The lover sources, a woman named Mary Pinchot Meyer was She was also a good buddy of the wife of a very and her death to this day remains a mystery. secret, and so that information only it was said the shooter must have had extensive named Ray Crump was charged with the murder, but So, why would someone have taken It's well known that she kept a diary, and in it didn't need to know. After she was killed, people CIA agent who was caught trying to break into her But, so what if the diary exposed the smoked weed together in the White House. Well, some people believe that this woman knew and that's why she had to go. It's also worth up with its report she was very skeptical. agency was wiretapping her phone. This is and the timing of it do sound quite suspicious. - What Really Happened?" Or, have a look at,