In a recent video we covered the incredibly rare the midst of an ancient battlefield. Here the shocks most notably rippling out across the era's the question: what about the physical aspect of rare space minerals to their advantage? The answer the fascinating topic of meteor weapons which i absolutely love exploring mankind's relationship far earlier than traditionally imagined yet can learn much more about our species grapple blinkist blinkist is an app that puts the vast what's more it takes thousands of non-fiction most essential ideas for you to easily digest with tool for me to explore a wide range of topics from example i was recently able to listen to rocketman of apollo 8's mission to reach the moon as which follows this up with the harrowing tale of i'm sure that when you try blinkist you'll also so check it out now by clicking the link in in addition the first 100 people will The first question to address here is: what do place? Well if we rule out fantasy ideas of magic enemies then what you are left with is essentially Asteroids are generally made up of silicates Scientists classify these in three broad of these elements. Stony Meteors, which contain are by far the most common with modern of all meteorites which fall to earth's surface. silicate vs heavy metal content and represent category are Iron Meteors made up almost entirely dense and rare. However, owing to their mineral So what does all this mean to our story? not much. Earth already has vast quantities of outside of the novelty of their source of origin. in some cases more so than gold. Recall humans long lacked the capability of extracting gradual advancement in our toolmaking of the stone age, the bronze age, and is typically categorized as occurring from the meteors provided the ability for humans to Yet I want to make one thing clear here. Iron is The two metals have a rough parity in strength will perform about the same. The real advantage rather than having to combine copper and tin. You sophisticated techniques to get that iron, hence bypass this hurdle in that they were formed in made iron to the planet's surface. The second civilizations can start to mix it with carbon bronze and serves as an extremely useful metal So hopefully this gives you a bit of Let's now proceed to examples of how One of our earliest records of humans interacting ancient Egypt. It is here, in a tomb within found 9 small beads whose chemical composition Analysis dates these objects For context, that puts it right around That's about a century before Upper and Lower the Great Pyramids were built. Understandably is little hope of getting any backstory on how At the very least it means that at some point, debris field. For an example of what this may have Kamil impact site, recently found in the desert 200 ft wide and 50 ft deep crater was formed by pieces of meteoric iron across the area. Such a age people. Perhaps a similar site yielded and brought back to a workshop where it was Presumably there must have been quite the of this item likely brought with it a high degree traded hands or for what sums it finally came into Meanwhile in Estonia, the Kaali impact land and its people. Roughly 4-6,000 the atmosphere, erupting into pieces at While many pieces tumbled into the Baltic Sea, Researchers estimate that they impacted with incinerating vegetation within a 6 km radius, and for a day. It left behind a series of craters, The Bronze Age locals were certainly aware site soon became associated with religious wall. It seems the Baltic people also made use the production of various goods which again find This pattern repeats itself across the Bronze Age. locals once more stumbled upon meteor fragments. dated to around 2300 BC. In it were some of which were ornamented It is in this apparent royal tomb that clearly demonstrating the high value nature of was likely due to the novelty of the material For such cases we must look elsewhere. The most Alaca Hoyuk. Here another dig into ancient tombs dagger encasing a blade of meteoric iron dated one's breath. We can only imagine its effects epic trophy long ago. But he wouldn't have Another meteoric dagger, dated to within was found in Egypt. Once again the discovery was in fact, which contained many such stunning several other daggers and even the pharaoh's Fascinatingly, early Egyptian writings indicate source of this material. Textural references have and ideas that deceased kings would eventually This connection is further reinforced in the 1200s appears. Translated literally it means "iron that this sudden uptick in the references to meteor strikes in the area. Its certainly the neighboring Assyrians also coming to describe Yet more meteoric weapons appear scattered across we have found an axe made from meteoric iron several iron axes have been discovered. carved bronze heads which grip the Over the centuries we continue to see in various archeological finds. Naturally rarity and thus its value decreased. ready made iron would long hold its appeal. not benefit from the evolution of advanced A great case study will be the northern Inuit it difficult for their civilization to develop they relied largely on nature for their tools, However the inuit tribes of Cape York were one of the largest known iron meteorites. Some 5-10,000 years ago a massive rock crashed breakaway fragments across the ice sheets below. over 30 tons, were later discovered by the Using cold-forging methods they then used the blades, and various other items. In short, the The boon appears to have had a huge impact on being found hundreds of miles to the east and cases the iron-rush may have done more harm than Across the pre-columbian tribes of the Americas iron was meteoric or telluric in origin. Only as gain access to larger quantities of iron through Conquistadors for instance were reportedly knives and daggers despite having The same story repeats itself in other The Nama people of Namibia for instance long used of Australia made use of the Henbury meteorite. So where does this leave us with regards to our did indeed have an impact on societies across often more rare than gold. Yet this rarity also with 'iron from the skies' often being Sure some of these novelties were indeed turned was never really enough with which to arm entire Age army was equipped with iron weapons and shows that it wouldn't have performed much I don't think THAT would have mattered either. At throughout history were won by numbers, tactics, So paradoxically an army with space gear may have of their garb but because of the psychological Ultimately you may be a bit disappointed truly fascinating to consider how space debris, could randomly crash into our planet and suddenly be it in the form of weapons, At the very least it's certainly fodder and fantasy novels. Let me know in the A huge thanks to the Patrons for funding writers, and artists for making this episode more content and check out these other