This is the Marble Machine X, if this machine actually works, [woosh] The marble starts right here in the where they're being dropped onto the snare drum. This part is brand new and I'm excited to see if this marble gate can play 10000 After bouncing on the snare drum and then roll through this pipe straight into the machine. The funnel is connected to this marble track The marble track is guiding the marbles down to the first lifting mechanism, the big marble lifting gear. So the marbles are then lifted up The marbles are then transitioning to lift the marbles even higher. These gears are using magnets to lift the marbles, and we don't want the marbles to be the marbles are pushed through On this wheel the magnets are ordered in an So when the marbles are passing over the magnetism inside the marbles and the marbles are ready to be transported The marble conveyor belt here is one of It starts and stops to pick up the marbles. The conveyor belt can lift eight marbles per crank turn, and drops off the marbles on these plywood lanes. On the plywood lanes the marbles are And while we're here on the back side of the machine So this part is the brain of the Marble Machine X, using just like midi notes in a music software. The plywood marble lanes here on top of the machine In the marble divider the marbles can choose to go two ways, either fall straight down into one of these or pass over all the channels and enter The recycling loop starts with the It takes one stream of marbles Then the marbles go in this turn Once they reach the top of the fish stair, they can The acrylic pipes are leading down through the machine This zigzag track reduces the marble pressure and So there you go, that's the full loop that And in today's 10 000 marble test, The floor right now is so clean, So let's keep this floor clean Start. Activating hi-hat machine... And snare. Listen to how the hi-hat machine and the snare slowly start to play in sync with each other [snare drum and hi-hat rythm] I'm recording the sound on multiple microphones. [snare drum rhythm, [hi-hat rhythm, [hi-hat and snare drum beat, [hi-hat and snare drum beat, [hi-hat and snare drum beat, I feel so happy to be back making marble test, I've redesigned so many parts of the machine, So I really hope that that will show I'm holding my thumbs here! [chuckles] [hi-hat and snare drum rhythm, [hi-hat and snare drum rhythm, in high speed] The machine has been playing for thirteen minutes, So it's time to check the floor, [hi-hat and snare drum rhythm, The machine has now played 2000 marbles, so I'm gonna celebrate that [bass guitar solo, accompanied by And we're cruising up to 3000 marbles, so let's play some kind of kick-drum [kick drum, hi-hat and snare drum rythm, The machine is crushing it so far. We're now 40 minutes into the test, and without a single failure. [bass guitar solo, kick drum rhythm, [heavy noise of rolling marbles, [ unreleased / No Marbles On The Floor ] Are you seeing what I am seeing? [laughs] Let me put a red circle to help you focus your attention. The floor is clean, my friends! That feels wonderful to see! The machine has been playing for over I know from experience though, that things can go wrong at the very last minute, The marble count is now at 6000 Not a single fail, and I'm gonna celebrate 6000 This pattern might sound a little bit odd by itself, but I hope it will work in context My plan is to record, like, a new instrument and if we reach 10000, play the whole song [cymbal crescendos, some of them interrupted] Things are working great. The machine keeps on playing, and I'm checking in I love how you can see the marbles When there's more channels, it will not be as visible, So, lets check the time, and... 13:33, looks like we actually already played Clean floor! Woooo! Yeah! [ unreleased / No Marbles On The Floor ] This piano sound makes me think of a I think it was the band Abba. Anyway, they were in the studio, and they said they had that it could turn a one million dollar grand piano sound into the sound of a toy keyboard. [chuckles] That's kind of what I've done with this piano sound. [vibraphone chords] We are getting so close, 8000 marbles, zero fails, and I'm using my Premier vibraphone from 1964, probably my absolute favourite music instrument. [vibraphone melody] [steel guitar chord] [steel guitar melody] So, at this point I'm just waiting to cross this finishing line, celebrating you can see there, the floor is still clean. So now there's only seconds to go. Nothing looks bad. I think I might have done it. [thunder rumble] [electric sparkling] [ unreleased / No Marbles On The Floor ] [silent explosion sound] [silent explosion sound] [silent explosion sound] [silent explosion sound] Here is everything I did to achieve this perfect score. I replaced this masking tape with 3D-printed fence posts and I found a hole in the marble fence, I made a new plywood piece to guide the marble tubes from the top of the I removed the old solution and inserted the new piece. I found this edge case where the marbles could actually So I removed one of the plywood parts, and then With the deeper pockets, and this edge case is removed, and the I designed the new clock escapement gate and assembled I was happy as a bird this day, because I knew that Everything was going so great until disaster struck. [marble drops on drum, five times] Huh... this is not working... I'm way too disappointed 'cause I dont want to be... [chuckles] angry on video... In the end, when the marbles are pressing full on, turns out the pressure is actually too high. So, check... this is what happens. Well, they all hit the funnel. Let's try this again. [large number of marbles hit drum] [laughs] So, look now... Pressure has decreased, And now it's working perfectly. Let's go downstairs to the... rescuing... Not happy, I'm so... I'm just trying to not... I'm trying to keep this I calmed myself down and mustered up a resource And then I cut my whole CNC-bed flat, and I designed a new pressure valve, very I even made an intermediate version, so this is the And, voila, it works perfect. [marble hits drum, five times] I made this pre-tension thingy, that sits in front of And this is pre-loading these springs, and makes the I had a big issue before with low volume. I wanted to assemble the microphones seriously, and cut some of the stands out, because So this piece I'm going to cut off, and also, this old piece is made for two drums [angle grinder noice] I'm angle grinding away the pieces that were in the way, and here you can see now Shoutout to Cristof Bruning for finding this angled SM57, Lastly I found a better way to fix the timing I had this external shim washer system before, which meant that I had to take the plates off, And suddenly I just realized, if I put a bolt from the inside, I can adjust the timing when the plates are on the machine, which helped me make the marble machine [ratchet clicking] The devil is in the details, in this project, I can tell you. [marble machine playing drum rhythm, Perfect. It was funny, I talked to Hannes before filming this, I said like: I'm not gonna be happy if it plays perfect, I'm just gonna take this for granted But it feels amazing right now, I have to say. Baseball bat is standing right over there, one marble on the floor and this machine No, but seriously it feels... amazing, although I think It almost went wrong with this... the clock escapement gate The fix we made... it's perfect. These 10 000 marbles have passed through so, the lifting mechanism, the conveyor belt, Divide-by-four divided 65 000 marbles... good! Well done, little Marble Machine X! This weekend, the Wintergatan discord server They are planning a four-day-long stream, with all the Marble Machine videos from start to finish, with, like, Minecraft, Among Us, If you want to be part of the Wintergatan discord server just go to the discord channel and check the announcement So welcome to celebrate the birthday, and thank you to everyone who are supporting this I mean, we did 10 000 marbles, and we're close to so I'm happy I could play one marble correctly for each That warms my heart, How are you back there? Oh they're... playing some kind of... they do a Wilson formation. Look how happy they are. Epic win for the project, to summarize. This is the result we wanted, and this is the result I'm gonna crank down my expectations, and actually celebrate this win. Wohoo! That was the celebration, tomorrow I start with the hi-hat channel.