(music playing) - Hi, Steve Stein from Guitar Zoom here. First of all I want to thank and the discussions that you my guitar theory where we and half steps, and how And then applying it to the guitar. Now remember you know over the this stuff, what I have found for you, as a learning guitar in order and take small bites. As your learning stuff, don't all at once because then you use any of it, and please with anything that we learn is no different. We want to learn the concept. Okay. Which is what I call whiteboard theorying. If you look you will see that right here. But the trick is to take all and actually start learning so that you can use it. It's not just text book, but you can use it in your playing. That's the most important thing. So thank you for all the lets just keep going here. So the next step here is to that we were discussing all start simplifying that into the major scale. The do, re, mi, fa, so, la, ti, do scale. That scale is the one that cool, functional theory that we think of. Cords and intervals and and all those kind of things This do, re, mi, fa, so, la, ti, do scale. Now if you look at my whiteboard I have got written here diotonic, When we were dealing with notes. What we did, we took seven pulled them out of there Diotonic meaning seven, So it's seven notes from the root. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Now we can put these in You know we can start with we can start with C. The reason I am starting with simpler to explain because so, la, ti, do in music is no sharps and no flats. So you will notice I have a I don't have two F's, like like that. For learning how to do this to do this is you just, every terms of major scales, major have one of each one of these notes. Your not gonna have a G and the same key, it wouldn't happen. Okay? So, what we do is we just pull then we put them in order. Okay? Now I am doing it from C be easier for us to see. So let's take a look at this. So what we want to look at in at the intervals or the distances. Remember in the chromatic scale Well now that have just pulled you'll will notice we The distance from C to D is a whole step. The distance from D to E is a whole step. The distance from E to F is a half step. It's a naturally occurring half step. That's where again on the in between those two white keys. F and G is a whole step. G to A is a whole step. A to B is a whole step. B to C, again becomes a half step. This set up here of whole template in which your going scales. If your in the key of G, or or the key of E, or the key have their half steps and Okay. Now one of the questions I minor scales, or what about modes?&quot; And the truth is when you this major scale, minor They are very easy because of this major scale. They're just conversions of That's all it is. When I was growing up and I was I didn't understand that, so their own thing, and major modes were their own thing, suppose to memorize. I am never going to be able to do this. And it wasn't until later no their all the same thing, place and that's my goal for course is to explain all of that. To make it easier for you. So in looking at this then a so it's whole step, whole whole step, whole step, half step.&quot; Which is exactly right. That's totally true. But the little short cut I to just think of it this way. I want you to think half steps seven and eight. Or seven and one. However you want to look at it. Remember C is C is C is C. Octaves, when we are talking not worried about octaves, we Okay. So this C and this C, A C is a C is a C is a C. Okay? So what we want to do, is half steps are between and eight, or seven and one. Okay. So, this scale is again is our that has no sharps, no flats, So the situation arises for a different key. For instance, lets say you Alright, so the key of G what right down G and I am just A, B, C, D, E, F, and G. Okay. There is my notes. Now in order for this to la, ti, do, its got to Its gotta to function the same So its half steps have to be seven and eight. It has to be. If their any different, it re, mi, fa, so, la, ti, do. So in the key of G, if we gravitating right to the those first. B to C looks okay. But here we have F to G. That's actually a whole step want a half step. Now the easiest thing to do that but let's actually start way all the way over to the right. And that is gonna to help us of these other keys because the key of C, we are gonna sharps in our key, or more More accidentals, more problems Let's look at key of G first So in the key of G, if we we got G to A which is a we want. A to B which is a whole B to C which is a half step C to D is a whole, great. D to E is a whole, that's great. Here is our problem, E to F. E to F is only a half step. We want a whole step in half step. So we have to expand this And there is really only Either we got to push the E F forward. Now logically if I take the have a problem because if I E flat, it's gonna fix that screw up this interval. Which is gonna screw up all of it. So we can't do that, we Okay. So what we want to actually to make F into F sharp. Now E to F sharp is the whole to G is the half step. You fix one side, you fix the other side. That's the way it works. So the key of G has one sharp. You've might have learned how to play piano or something know why the key of G has one sharp. The key of G has an F sharp. And now you can memorize an F sharp, right. Now it's set up so it's do, Now I am going to keep going on my guitar. So lets take the key of C show you how to play this if before and if you have, just follow along. I am going to take the C to the eighth front of the sixth string. (chord strumming) and I am going to play I am going to play D At the tenth fret I am going the twelfth fret. (chords strumming) So there is C, D, E. And then the next string twelve again. (chords strumming) So I have C, D, E, F, G, to the fourth string, but go to the ninth fret. (playing B chord) That's B. And then I am gonna go to tenth fret, that's C. (playing C chord) So I have C, D, E, F, G, A, B, C. (playing all chords) okay. So now we are kind of moving that guitar players have, on the guitar. The difference is that I want notes and not only those C to D is a whole step, B to a half step. (playing chords) It's kind of hard to see string to the fifth string, E to F, right there, I can see (guitar playing) You see, so that's our half step. So we have one, two, three, five, six, and then seven and then eight. There's our half step. (guitar playing) Now the point I am doing here take that scale that we move that down to G. (guitar playing) At the third front of the sixth string. Now you've might have done not but if you've done it you can move that scale around. (guitar playing) That scale shape that But now you know why. Because it has to mirror the So my notes now are G, A, D, E, F sharp, G. (guitar playing) And if you have been working first video, you can already That's the beautiful thing It's not just book theory, the fundamental aspect of you will. But then you gotta take that to your guitar. You gotta start making it make sense. Okay. So the point I am trying to because the half steps and is the same, when I go to shape is the same. Okay. It looks exactly the same. (guitar playing) I can be in any key, it The shape is gonna be the same. So lets keep going for a minute here. I wanna show you a couple of more here. Put this together. So now we are going to do key of D for instance. I am gonna put D, E, F, G, A, B, C, and D. Okay. Then I am going to put my half steps in. You know what's funny because it was my sophomore year, professor, he goes, &quot;don't steps in, put those arrows in.&quot; He goes, &quot;your gonna make so put them in&quot; and ever since arrows between three, Ever since that class when So, it makes it easy to see. My eyes gravitate to it. I can see there is a problem be a half step and it's a whole step. And this right here should whole step. So I got all kinds of problems. But again in just instead of I want to start at the beginning So D to E is a whole step like we want. E to F is only a half step that up. Now we got a whole step which half step. G to A is a whole. A to B is a whole. B to C is only a half but if whole step to our half step. The key of D has two Okay. Not trying to bore you, let keep going. Okay. And if you got a piece of grab that and start writing this down. Learn how to do this. I use to have my students do So lets do the key of A. We'll bump this up a little bit. Okay. We got our half steps, we Grab my colorful red marker here. And again we can see by we got issues. This isn't right and that's not right. So lets fix it. Lets start from left to right. A to B is that correct? And the answer is yes. It's a whole step just like we want. Just like everybody else has. B to C is that a whole step? And the answer is no. So we need to make the B to C, C sharp. Now B to C sharp is a whole step. C sharp to D is the half D to E is that a whole step? And the answer is yes. E to F is that a whole step And the answer is no. So we have to change it to F sharp. F sharp to G is that a And the answer is no. So we have to fix that too. F sharp to G sharp is a whole A then is the half step we want. So you can see as we keep more sharps, you wind up to be fixed. Now before I let you go, next we are gonna do we are gonna and how triads work. What I would like for you to focus on two things. Try these out in various keys. Try the key of F, and the and the C, and the key of Right? And study those. See the similarities. Begin to understand the different scales and how they're We are just re-adjusting mirror the key of C. So the last one I want to see how works, we are So F, G, A, B, C, D, E, and F. Kind of hard to write Okay. Now we throw in our little arrow. There we go. Beautiful. Now at first glance, this A to B is wrong, E to F is right. First glance we throw a sharp glance that everybody does. But lets actually look further to right like we are suppose to be doing. So F to G is a whole step. It's fine. G to A is a whole step. It's fine, there is nothing wrong with it. A to B is a whole step and Do you see what the problem is? Okay. The problem is that you can't this problem. Because if you move A sharp, A to A sharp. G to A is wrong then. You can't do that. The only thing you can do bump the B backwards. F to G was fine, we can't change it. G to A was fine, we can't change it. A to B was wrong, so we make then makes B flat to C a C to D a whole step. D to E a whole step. E to F a half step. So in the first video we scale and the fact you get sharps. And then again the questions you call them sharps, I and we learn that a sharp B flat are actually the same note. Their just called an enharmonic. You have two different same pitch. But I did mention to you that theory, your gonna start different names. And this is why. Okay? And this might further a piano player or a clarinet that how you would refer to it as B flat. Where as a guitar player don't know our theory, we We just say A sharp. And then other musicians calling it A sharp? It's because in their usual really come across A sharp, a lot. As you can see right here in the key of F. Okay? We can't call this A sharp. We can't have A and A sharp. Even though in theory it does make sense on paper. We have to call it B flat. So the key of F gets one Okay? So I that helps you a little bit. Remember the key here is watch need to absorb this concept. This is really, really If you really want to start on the fretboard, and I so because it's so enlightening understand what is actually as opposed to just always really make any sort of sense. And again, don't get I started there to, Learn how to play scales understand how anything worked. But it always just seemed my soloing, especially my song Because I really didn't tethered together. So that's the whole point of theory. Okay? So in the next video, we're from this, but please right here will work for all in the theory course we go So take care and I'll see ya soon. Oh, and remember please, comments, or you want to the Facebook Guitar Zoom Join the, join the group. I'm on there too. And it's a positive, fun, just music and have fun and share that kind of stuff. It's not about intimidation kind, it's certainly not about negativity. It's just about sharing and it is, so meet us over questions, we're gonna, we're in the next video. So.