Hey guys. Welcome to the session by Intellipaat. Microsoft Azure is the fastest growing cloud cloud provider. Right behind AWS in the public cloud market. And few among the Fortune 500 companies who are Apple Pixar and Samsung. Also guys in this session will be learning we will sort of from the beginner level concepts And also guys before moving on to the session. Please subscribe to our channel so that you Now let us take a quick glance at the agenda. Let's start out with a quick introduction that will look at the various categories of services and Storage services. Moving on we look at the most popular services storage SQL databases as Azure App services Moving on we look at the career and certification and required skills. And finally we have a short Quiz with interview detailly. And also guys if you want to do an end to provide you Azure architect Programme and Now let us begin with this session. First let us look at why Azure there are so So there is Amazon Web Services. There is a Google cloud that is IBM cloud There are so many cloud providers. But why do you choose a particular cloud cloud So right now we are going to look into that. Why do we need azure So we all know that Amazon in the world. They dominate the public cloud market and then comes Google Cloud and then the other That's fine. So now why is Azure second. And why is Amazon Web Services first. So Amazon Web Services started four years of headstart which Azure did not have. But still azure is growing at a rate that Amazon Web Services in the public cloud market. So now. Yes. Numbers don't lie. So the first thing is every year every year into the security recession department section Also they have more than three thousand five complete Microsoft Azure data centers and So when there is a threat which is running They will be able to figure that out and clear So. So that's why they're investing so much into So why one million U.S. dollars. So what does it matter to you as a customer. So the only thing you have to take out of customers. They invest so much in security so that your Your data has to be your own data your data That data should not be used by Azure for do that. Second that data should not be they dont sell so that an unauthorized person or a hacker Azures Azure architecture. So now for that they invest so much money So they care about their customers. This is the first number. So the second number is they have a hundred on the cloud. So they have virtual machines. They have storage applications they have SQL are machine learning applications they have all at one time. So there are so many domains you can use all And then finally the India head for azure use Azure for their business needs. So not the entire architecture should be on If for example one particular company is just not other data sorry not others your services. So basically it right now that company is So looking at that particular fact there are are using Azure. Using Microsoft Azure services for some of So these three were the biggest fact which Azure Okay guys a quick info. If you are looking for an end to Microsoft architect certification training. And those details that are available in the Now let's continue with the session. And then. So what do you get out of Azure. So they do this so they invest this much amount They have these many services. Yeah you get you will get benefited by services uses your. But what do you get as a customer as a person So if you want to start learning Azure then these three things for free. First you get twelve months of popular free So the most popular services are you will Second you get thirteen thousand three hundred of credit free for 30 days to explode Azure you want we charge it'll be automatically And finally there are always free services So you also get always free services will So these three are the main features you get Azure account. So when you create azure account you get 12 three hundred credit points for free. All these free services are more than 25. So now what you can do with an Azure free Okay. So cloud you can launch services you can use you will not have a particular idea of what So let me give some ideas of what you can So first you might have a local application local application in to azure into that azure So for example if you have if you use your you can you can launch a virtual machine on there. And if you also have a local database you your data out from your local to SQL database application architecture. So like this you can learn a lot. And second you can create custom mobile experiences app service which is again one of the service again as your Cosmos D.B. is a no SQL database So they also have Zammer in hockey app and So it is pretty easy to create a mobile application And finally you can also get insights out So they have data lake analytics they have run machine learning algorithms on virtual So you have all these you have all these things insight so you can use all of them and you use algorithms or you can use SQL queries So these are three use cases which you can The basic thing you can do is use your local then you can create mobile applications and and also every year again azure provide more of services. They increase the regions and availability Right now they've announced that you can use free for 12 months. So for twelve months you can use 12 different So build App that recognise people's needs azure cognitive services for free for 12 months. And now again why azure SO WE TALKED ABOUT what azure gives you. And these are again these are again provided Even A W.S. provides a free tier even JCP So even they provide that and even their cloud But what makes your standout so this is one though it is in the second position you can So by 2016 you can see Amazon or AWS was dominating So 52 percent is basically a combination of So this is not a single service. So as a single cloud provider AWS was completely of the public cloud market share. And you can see over here with 8 percent with azure was second. So there was this huge gap between Azure and Quick info. If you are looking for an end to end Microsoft architect certification training. And those details that are available in the Now continue with the session. Then again coming here 2 percent Google and So currently AWS is at 47 percent azure is So if you compare So thirty five to forty in three years. But azure had a 14 percent growth which is So basically what I'm trying to say is the It is increasing exponentially every year. So it's not going to be stopped. Their revenues is getting increased. Their growth rate is increase the number of So also most of the companies are preferring of inbuilt tools which go that dot net framework. And the visual studio IDE. So if if you're a Dot net developer azure So also if you are farmiliar with power shell you than AWS. So aazure is a Microsoft product. Right. So you can use all Microsoft products. There is a lot of ways you can implement other deploy an application from your visual studio you can directly launch a service and you which is running currently so you can do all So you can see this is what I wanted to show year and even GCP got 8 percent done Ali. Ali sorry. Ali cloud got 8 percent and GCP is 7 percent Google Cloud. We are talking about Azure. So that's what I'm saying. What their growth rate is more than AWS. Second you have a lot of native developer If you are a dot net developer or if you view machines often or if you're developing applications that it would be more helpful for you to use solutions architect. So in the USA it is a hundred thousand dollars pounds per annum and in India it is 17 lakhs So again why Azure this is one of the things professional if you get as you're certified I am pretty sure you'll be paid well because currently which is trending and also you will Now we have looked at why Azure so let me What. Why Azure first SO WHY Azure we saw first their investment their growth their number So now we are going to look at what exactly I was talking about Azure they are a cloud What Azure. Now let us look at that. Okay. So first again Azure is a cloud provider owned range of services via Internet. So basically Microsoft Azure provides services and you can use them by renting them out. That's it. Basically the concept is very simple in cloud You would rent some services from people who So I just wanted to explain how this happens. So you are an user you are using the Microsoft to launch a virtual machine. So now you might not know what exactly happens So when you launch a service using Azure you you will get a notification in your Azure So now you will understand that IDE is launched Where is this particular cloud. So basically cloud is the term which we used somewhere it is not a cloud. Basically it is a data center which is owned and basically when you launch a virtual machine are basically triggering an action in those running on. So in the Azure data centers they will have They'll have the SQL databases everything the name for it. You'll have to provide what kind of configuration You have to provide all these details to get So now basically cloud is the internet. You're using the internet to access a particular are paying for it. So basically you're not paying for the entities for what you use and the time you use that Now again Azure has Azure has the most number worldwide. That is in 54 different regions. They have their data centers and 140 available So basically they are available in 140 countries. That's what they're saying and they're they're You can see there in the USA they're in Canada. They're available in Brazil. They're available in South Africa. They're available in India Southeast Asia. They're available in China Korea and they're So basically they're available everywhere So this particular architecture. So what would be the benefit of this. So they have data centers almost in every So why does this make your company better in one particular data center. So right now you are. So let's say your company is an American based So right now you have invest us you have your So now you're checking your websites analytics a lot of requests from India. You're getting let's say you're getting a requests 500 are from India and rest are from So now you think I want to expand my business So what will you do you will you go to India in a place where you rent it out and keep to maintain them monitor them constantly and better. So this will involve a lot of labor and a So and also a lot of time basically. So that's what they're trying to reduce the So now using Azure you can basically migrate data centers are all of these data centers So that is a huge process. While you're doing it manually but using Azure web service. That's it. Okay. Now we saw what is Azure SO Azure is a cloud have hardware components lying somewhere across They have multiple data centers and you are use a particular service for a particular So that is what Azure is. So Azure basically a cloud provider who rents Now let us look at what kinds of services Now security and management compute the been IED integration media and Syrian hybrid operations So they provide a wide variety of services They provide a wide variety of services coming So basically compute web and Mobile. So these are. So let's say to be more easier. So let's say mobile applications. So now you want to host your mobile application in your desktop using Android Studio or you're it's fine. You have created your mobile application but and launch your own led to launch your own So you don't have funds for that. You are looking at your wallet but you do So what you can do is you can launch or you a mobile application service and hosted right the time you're using it. So they're not charged for they'll not charge service if you're not using it anymore you So you only get charged for the time you are Now let's look at other services. So let's look at a SQL database so they provide It can be my sequel or Postgres sequal or You can use that then they have a SQL data This is for analytical purposes. You can use them to migrate your analytical and you can see visual studio. So basically you can also build Visual Studio You can also build applications from Visual to the Azure cloud. And then they have SDK you can use them in So you can basically use machine learning Azure which will be more powerful. They have a data factory which is basically it is like a data league from where you can use them. You can query them out. So basically again it is for analytics. And then what else you have a content delivery So let's say you're a startup and you want CDN to upload all your content to that and So edge location is in the sense multiple their content from. So you would have seen in YouTube let's say So if you type in a video sometimes a video So if that video is banned in your country. So basically that particular video. So in that particular region it's not able that particular video. So they blocked it. So right now let's say YouTube every day. So much of content is uploaded to YouTube. So how do they manage that. Where do they keep it. Do they have servers on their own in their No. That is the answer. No Is that so. So they basically use a CDN content delivery coming from multiple regions. So they have CDN's across the world they store at any point of time. For example if this particular CDN does not server and it gets that data back and gives So that is what a CDN is so I am just explaining So it also provides Azure story. It does blob storage. It has virtual machines then it has virtual virtual private clouds. They are basically a cloud inside your cloud. So to be more simple you have one particular I'm in inside that container. You put your virtual machines or your servers. So now though. So anybody from out outside that particular which are running inside them. You can basically block outside access to so you can do this. So these are the various services in Azure particular station I could take just for these Now also as your services are provided for Now let us look at what are the services which When is the Linux virtual machines which they So for twelve months and every month for 750 And again for Windows virtual machines it So you get 64 G.B. into do you get this much So this is not does it not cost you. And then coming to blob storage every month 5 gB of data is free for you a SQL database month period. So basically you can use a SQL database to You can run your own startup for free totally. You don't get any cost so if it does not go you pay only for the space you take up after So again it will be very cheap. Okay guys a quick infol. If you're looking for an end to end Microsoft architecture application training. And those details are available in the description. Now let's continue with the session. So these are some free services which Azure that Azure provides. So that is a why to promote Azure they provide them and try them out too and understand how by all yourself. So you might have your own servers but after cheap prices you will be inspired or intimidated Now let us do a simple demo of launching a So now let us go to the console. I have already logged in. So once you logged in the size of the console So here you can see Azure services create Virtual Machines resource groups Azure Cosmo's So now we are going to launch a virtual machine. And these are the services which they provide You can also pull this hand look at the most So basically this is the home. And then you can see multiple tools over here. They have a mobile app also you can download You don't need need to have a powerfull laptop. You just need your mobile to launch as your So you can see I already have a virtual machine So now let us launch our own application let So it is pretty simple. You just have to either click on this or you So let me click on this service first. So when I click on this this takes me here This is the service which I already have. So now to create one more service you will And you get this console which is create a So now you'll have to fill up one two three If you fill seven tabs this will take hardly If you do that you'll get your own virtual You can log into it and do whatever you want. Now. So this is a subscription which I have which I have resource groups so resource groups you have all the details of your virtual missions resource group. So to make it more clear. So let's say you have a bag and there are apples you have oranges. So now you want to differentiate between apples So what you can do simply is throw the apples into the second bag. So that is how Resource group works. so let's say you have 20 servers and 10 servers for one application. So now you can create two resource groups resource group and put the second 10 servers So this of Resource Group looks for now I'm group or to create one it's pretty simple. Click on Create new provider name hit. OK you will create a resource group. Now you'll have to provide a virtual machine So us gve Azure VM one. So. So this is our virtual machine name. And you can choose that region that this particular So it is all already taken based us. You can also choose one of those so you can You can choose Australia south coast. So basically you can choose any one of this. And in that particular region you will get So I'm just going to go with US. Not a problem and then you can choose here be running on your instance. So you have ubuntu server you have RHEL that Debian and you have Oracle Linux again Ubuntu and then you have Windows 10 you have Windows have Windows Server 2019. So I'm just going to go with ubuntu. So let's go with the Ubuntu and here you can So let's change the size so you can see here you can take up and it will. It might cost you 3700 rupees per month but If you're running the servers for just one hour. You'll not get charged for the entire month. So just divide this by the number of hours So that's it you'll get that particular charge So for a new use of a let's say I am. So basically I have an account right now. So as I told you you can have you can run So basically right now this particular service in the next part in this our management I or not. So now then here you can see the authentication So there are two authentication types. One is password and one is SSL public key. So you can either choose one of them I'm going so basically password authentication type can open the instance and after opening the and log in. So that's more than enough you don't need key you should already have a public key and provide the public key over here and then So I'm just going to use password right now how to also create SSl s public key. So let me go with my username and so password and also should contain capital letters and a special character. So only if all of these conditions are OK particular virtual mission. So you'll have to provide it accordingly if it to will not allow it to you they will not So if you're not pretty sure you'll not remember Now none allowed selected port. So basically this is providing permission your particular visual mission. So now if you're using SSH then basically So from from the port number 22 using SSH. You can log in to your particular server which So right now this is fine. Everything will provided whatever we need So I'm just going to go with standard. So standard SSD automatically taken and then Now it is automatically taken virtual network isolated from each other. Each other in Azure. So that's what I was telling you previously isolates the services which are inside them in another virtual network. And then subnet and public IP so it automatically use to access our virtual machine. I'll also show you how to access a virtual So right now let us go ahead. So first virtual network it automatically So subnet work is again a big concept. It comes under a virtual network. So let us skip that. So we'll just have to remember what is a virtual and then public inbound ports. This I already explained without providing Nobody will be able to access your database I will if I only provide this I'll be able Next management. So here your subscription is protected by So I don't want basic plan. So let me click HDD and let me check right So OK it took suggestions again. OK. It took management Azure security center basic OS diagnostic so these are not default. You don't need these are mandatory you don't So this accounts it will be already available You don't need to create new things it'll you don't need to provide anything here. So these are basically high more advanced We're not going to go into advanced concepts. We just want to know how to launch a virtual So first we provided the name we chose the anything else. So now tags so basically tag sort of for tracking So for example you might have 10 servers for So now if you're tag them all of the same servers which are for my Web site. So that's how you can use tags. And then finally we can review and create So if it shows. So if it shows you that the validation US mistake. You'd have to go back it like to show where go there and correct it. So if there are no mistakes then it's fine. Go ahead and click Create. So now you'll get this available here. So again see submitting deployment and deployment You'll be taken to a console where it is getting So your deployment is under way. And it will show step by step what exactly Also you can view the steps running over here. So right now this particular deployment will So within this once it gets deployed we look Before that I'll also show you how to create So let me open Puttygen. So you should have by the puttygen installed So now if I go to puttygen so you can see generate checked and just moving almost across So please generate some randomness by moving So that's what we'll have to do. So once you have done this It will automatically So right now it has created the public. So this is the public key. So while it was showing how to deploy you So there you have to copy and paste this and So once it's done. So the thing is you would have provided the So once you provided the public key for your can be used to decrypt it. So you'll have to save your private key. Let me say it private. So you have saved your private key. And if you want you can save you a public So then this is how you create a public and mission you will have to provide these public RSA inside the particular box. Once you provide entry and created it. And then while you while you're trying to point you'll have to provide the private key So will not look into that. I just wanted to show you another way of logging So now let's look at the most basic way of so you can see they're showing the steps. So they are showing one by one so set about So not a problem solved. Right now the deployment is under underway. So it doesn't take some time guys as I already So now let us wait until this gets completed. So once this gets completed we'll be able So before this gets completed I'll also show into that. So this is my other virtual mission. So it is running currently. And you get a dashboard like this so you can So not a problem. You will get notified. So don't worry about that. So now you can see my resource group is first. It is running. It is in the east us my subscription subscription virtual mission it is. And then public IP private IP so public IP IP. I'll go to putty. So basically you I have putty over here or So not puttygen it is putty which is over So you'll have to open it in hostname. You'll have to provide the public IP and then So give. Yes. So now you can see log in as. So I don't have a key. So I just have a password. So all four log in has just hit enter. You don't need to provide anything. So right now I'll have to provide my password so sorry. The password is wrong. Just a second. So the thing is again I'm doing the same process. I'm just putting the public IP over here. So the mistake I did was I provided the user instance also. So you have to first provide the user name So once you provide your password now you're is open to server and I'll do it as it's. So you can create a file type. You can save it gets saved. So again see undertakes you know basically which is running in I'm sorry which is running We are not doing anything else which is basically So right now let's check with there are other So it's still running it's taking some time So I'll also show you. Let's wait and yup. So right now deployment is succeeded. I'll show how to log into that. So it is the same way you law. We logged into the previous instance. So I'll just close this and go to resource particular instance is different. So now again copy this go to putty. Paste it open give yes provide your user name your password yes. So first time I gave a password wrong so the So now I'm again logged into my instance which Now you can start doing stuff whatever you So right now if I paste this particular IP but once I launch a Web server in my virtual Provide enough permissions you'll be able So first i'll. So first I'll install a web server which is So it can get installed not a problem. So now let me I'll have to edit this so I'll have to go to my security group or Yeah I'll have to go to security. So not this so right now once again I'll try. No. So right now let me go to a Azure VM one. So this is my virtual machine so where is Yeah it is over here. Let me click this. Then subnet s firewall. Sorry not firewall. Yes. Not subnet. Uh just a second guys. Uh so where did I give my security group where So I'll have to just check that. Where is it available. So it's not available here. So yeah. So here's where it is. So this is social networking. Once you went inside networking you will have So basically this inbound tool will now allow It should allow only the port number 80 should here. So now let me add this creating security rule So right now you'll not be able to see anything I guess once it created you will be able to so it created successfully. So over here. No port number 80 ad so these are the added Let's check once again if it is available. So yes. So right now we have allowed port number 80 able to access the web page inside my server And it is showing it to you right now. So guys we have done our demo for today. All right guys let's start this session by All right. So let's go ahead and understand first cloud So guys by definition cloud computing is nothing to do your tasks. It could be basically hosting an application. It could be hosting your database server. It could be anything right. When you use servers on the internet when rather than using your own servers or computers That is called cloud computing right. And the person or the company who provides provider. This is just of Cloud computing is not obviously. Cloud computing has more things to it and Right now. Give me an example as to how you can imagine are a developer. OK. And what do you want to do is you want to So you basically start up a company and you Instagram and that idea is a billion dollar And what do you want to do is you want to by itself. You don't want to hire any people. Right. Because you want to keep the cost minimum. So you're doing it all by yourself. And now the application is ready. But do you have to make this application available So how do you do that. So the first thing that you would have to then have to put that application on those So once your application is on those servers that application available on the Internet. Right. And how would you make it available on the You basically connect Internet to these servers and now you go to your application is basically do it you would buy a domain and the next and now your application. Anybody on the internet who goes to your particular OK. So is this is the normal life cycle of how.