Standby for adventure! With conventional fuel rockets, it would take 15, 16,000 years Conventional kind of rockets are just out of the question You're gonna have to do something a little bit more out there. Slow to half impulse. Going one half impulse. What we're trying to do like you hear on &quot;Star Trek.&quot; We'd like it to go at about a 0.4 the velocity of light, just so that we can get within a human lifetime. There's no burnt up fuel. There's nothing being And it's the gravitational field that actually will propel This is the Mach Effect a device that could make But the MEGA drive, as it's known, is also a design that hinges on some pretty For many years, you work on a project and you're likely to be Now, after 30 years of fine-tuning, this pair of scientists to getting the results And NASA are taking the idea seriously. If something like that were It'd be groundbreaking, but those sorts of advancements That would be a pretty extraordinary claim to say that we've put this new spin on the way the universe works that we didn't know before. It's a well-known Newtonian law: an object at rest stays at rest, and an object in motion stays unless an external force acts on it. All objects resist a push to some extent, and what makes them do that? Inertia. In the 19th century Austrian physicist Ernst that these forces of inertia result from the gravity of It became known as Mach's principle. And while most experts scientists at this lab in California think the idea is just misunderstood. Mach's principle itself has and people don't seriously even discuss Mach's principal anymore. It just depends on the If you're looking at a textbook, you might find five or of Mach's principle. But the one I'm thinking of is that distant matter way out there can influence things up close. To get your head around it, take this old analogy used to illustrate how matter bends space-time. If you put a heavy object on a trampoline, it falls in and curves the rubber sheet. Now, if you roll a ball on the trampoline, it will keep orbiting the That's how a planet behaves when it's attracted by The thing is for the rubber it has to be under tension. It has to be stretched. And we're saying that basically, the distant matter of the universe is what's pulling the And that's what's basically like a rubber sheet. The stretched rubber sheet is loaded with potential energy. And according to the team's understanding of the Mach principle, so is space-time. So we're thinking that there's a big gravitational and this device can Imagine the space-time of the universe as being like a very, very flat lake. And you're sitting in a rowboat, the kind that has the seat that moves backwards and forwards, but you don't have any oars. Instead, you have two great big buckets, like big trash cans. While you slide forward in the seat, the mass shifts around and That's conservation of If there are no external while it's moving, its center of mass has And so the boat is moving to compensate for the Now, what you're gonna do is you're gonna dump the which is the universal space-time. And now, you're a lot Now, you're gonna slide back in the seat. And as you slide back, the boat is gonna move under you so that your center of mass The boat actually moves forward as you slide back in the seat. Then you can dump out the water, 'cause you don't need it anymore, and then you repeat that process. The MEGA drive works in a similar way. The part which is doing all the work is a stack of piezoelectric crystals, the same kind of material that's in your electric toothbrush. When you apply a certain the crystals expand and contract, which causes the whole device to vibrate. But the MEGA drive is set up to vibrate mainly in one direction, which causes it to accelerate slightly. The team says this to tap into the gravitational By borrowing some of its energy, the crystals change mass and the device starts That mass change is what's because each crystal kind of So the whole stack is which moves backwards and forwards. As it gains energy, it increases mass. And then it shrinks again and loses mass. If you time it just right, you can actually make All of this has been the life's work of Jim Woodward, who set off on this path Since then, he's been working alone on the MEGA drive until his desk at the to the office of Hal Fearn. I was away on sabbatical. And I came back and there he was. There I was. And Hal was not happy. And at first, I thought I thought, what on earth I took a closer look at what he was doing. That's when I really The shift is very small though. The shift is not that small. I grew up on &quot;Star Trek&quot; and I would love to be able to say that I worked on something that would help people to get If the theory turns out to be correct and we are really tapping it would be a serious breakthrough. It's just, I've got to prove it. Hi, Shell, are you there? But proving this idea has been a problem. The movements of the device not large enough to But after receiving two grants from the NASA Institute or NIAC for short, the team has managed to greatly improve their existing prototype. Jim was basically paying all He must have put 30 to He didn't want to buy off 'cause some of it wasn't available when he started doing You couldn't buy some of the equipment. You just had to make it and We did have some people and they saw Jim's homemade boxes. They didn't really take I had to convince Jim to buy that we could get fully calibrated. Trying to get things set up so that we could actually do some runs that would make Many new collaborators have joined along the way, and the team has designed hanging it from a pendulum and eliminate any vibrations, which might be mistaken for it. Okay, here it goes. Three, two, one. And they finally started seeing it move with their own eyes. You can physically see this thing shudder around, vibrating, and you can physically see So that's actually quite exciting. If we can actually show that by video, then I think that actually should convince quite a few people. It's on a reflector on the frame. Okay? I still think we should that looks like a wormhole. No. 'Cause I think it looks cool. Yeah. The devices we build now between 100 and 1,000 times larger than the forces that we were producing even a year or two ago. It's very, very small. If you think maybe a little pulley with a little mass held the force that that would produce if you dropped, say, two or You'd almost barely feel it in your hand. It's almost like the weight of a feather. Maybe a little bit more than a feather. Maybe two feathers. I'll be be generous, I'll give you a couple of feathers. The team calculates that the smaller the device, the larger the force it can generate. So instead of scaling up, they hope that arrays of powered by a nuclear battery to accelerate large probes They are sufficient actually to make it possible to take a starship, a human-crewed starship, to nearby stars and back in some reasonable So the question is, Are we collectively smoking something? Do we not know what we're doing? I suppose you might argue But the way to find out is to find out whether or are really doing what A few other teams have already tried to replicate but the findings were negative. People don't expect this thing to work. It sounds so bizarre. There are several things that could happen that could cause these false positives. And that's what people If they're saying this strange then... and then somebody else comes then they look like they have So it's much harder to say when it's controversial. Because of this controversy, NASA is now funding an independent at the Naval Research Laboratory. The neat thing about the there's some revolutionary new physics that lets you vary your inertial mass, which means you can actually be heavier and lighter at different times. And if you can wiggle at the same time as now you've maybe got a way and do some sort of wiggly, all through space. Now, is that possible in this universe? Maybe? Maybe not. Mike McDonald is part of the team testing the device, but even he admits that or disproving this theory won't be easy. Is the test going to be conclusive? Let me answer that What if I ask you to prove to me that there are no pink elephants? Now, you might say every but how do I know you just The answer is that you can't Tests give us enough information to decide if the way we is valid enough for us to And that's what this If you asked me to put on my betting hat and say, are we really going to see exactly the effect that is claimed, and is it going to be so strong that we think, ah, yes, it's definitely the You know, I'd say that's a number probably somewhere between one and 10 and one in 10 million, and I would lean toward the higher end. The odds, the odds are on no to be honest, but the odds are on no for And remember that science isn't a tool that gets dirtied by use. You know, the scientific method looking as shiny as where it started. And if we use it well, even if we don't find that we'll learn something about how to do these kinds for whatever is coming along next. There's a small but real chance that there's nothing to it. For me, it's exceedingly unlikely, but there's been more than one occasion where things haven't gone and I've started drafting who are interested in this, saying &quot;Gee guys, I'm really sorry. You know, it wasn't real after all.&quot; I haven't had one of those Assuming the device passes its replication trials and nothing else can explain the forces the team is claiming, one day, the ultimate test would be for an array of MEGA drives to maneuver a CubeSat in space. I'm 79 years old, so I don't know how A few years, maybe I'll see something If I live longer than that, I'm pretty sure I will Science fiction will be vindicated as transformed into scientific