This is the Daka River in northern Ghana. It's just it's at risk of drying out because of deforestation Now, there's no magic button to undo this. Tree buffers could be just what we need Not only that, they can solve a lot of However, it's not always as easy as it seems, and if That's what this video will be about. We came to see our partners, Tree Aid, whom You might have heard me talk about Tree Aid in other videos on our channel, feel free to check them out. In this video we'll talk about how the more than 4 million trees we've planted and regenerated here, thanks to are truly making a difference to the Daka River Before we start, and in case you're new here, Ecosia is search engine and a browser. We invest a 100% of our profits into climate action. Do consider downloading it, it makes a difference -- I came to Yendi, in northern Ghana, I traveled with Elise from Ecosia and Robert from Tree Aid. Ghana's northern region is a tropical savannah but endangered wildlife, including mammals like the kob, In one way or the other, all of these species, including us humans, depend on healthy, clean and full rivers. But here in Yendi, the Daka River is in trouble. Of course, rivers can change and erode naturally but those changes usually happen over a very The changes in the Daka River have been Like farming here, which, as you see, is Here in Yendi, rural communities depend This means that large areas have historically been deforested to make space for agriculture and animal grazing. That can be effective in the short term, This is a consequence of having no trees, no And so, when it rains, and especially a tropical rain will just flush the soil with it all the way into the river. So, at some point, the river is covered with soil and what's left of water just evaporates in these high temperatures. Bringing back plants native to the riverbanks can stop this. So, let's look at tree buffers. The technical term for them is &quot;riparian buffer&quot;; which is basically an area of vegetation along any river. And this is what a young riparian buffer looks like Some of the trees have been planted, others have been The trees are planted at least 60 to 100 meters So the river is there, the communities are on the other side. won't be flushed into the river because there's And most importantly, if any of the farmers are using chemical fertilizers on their farms -- that are now moved back -- those also won't be flushed into the river. Riparian buffers essentially filter out nutrients and sediments, which is especially relevant when rivers flow through farmland or other places where a lot of fertilizers might be used. Because if too many fertilizers run off into That's when there's so many nutrients in the water that algae start growing in excess, which can deplete the oxygen in the water, with a negative domino effect on the entire ecosystem. That's why Tree Aid also organizes awareness campaigns to encourage local communities to switch to natural fertilizers. The buffer zone is made up of three tiers. So, the first tier runs from 0 to 30 [meters], where there shouldn't be any disturbance. It needs to And from 30 to 60 [meters], we see a managed forest. That is, where you begin to introduce a little bit of planting and a little bit of farmers doing vegetable gardens and the rest. And from 60 to 90 [meters], that is the cropland and grassland. That's tier three. There, we allow planting and cropping to go on. whilst tree planting and FMNR can equally go on there. Protecting rivers from fertilizer runoff also keep the pollution out of oceans and lakes that they flow into. In fact, the Daka River flows right into a lake And part of the reason that the water doesn't that we apply with some of the communities here are not yet applied in all of the communities that live along the river. It's that but, also, the first rains of the season have whirled around the soi and hence this brown-ish color. Of course, riparian buffers bring many more benefits. Plants along a river provide shade as the canopy grows, which cools and moderates the temperature of This matters, because swings in water temperatures as the oxygen levels keep changing. Already just 30 meters of plants on each side of a the same as if this river went through a massive but also letting the sun in in certain spots - you get the picture. A little behind the scenes: the children were really waiting for me You can go into the water, if you want to! Riparian buffers also serve as wildlife corridors of human development; and when leaves, larger pieces this, too, provides much needed habitat Okay, I know I'm doing a lot of face-to-cameras This is also one regeneration side, along the It is so dense. And there's canopy already closing It's so much cooler here than it was out in Of course, riparian buffers aren't a magic solution. Some studies show that certain types of shrubs won't manage to block the runoff of all pesticides, for example. Factors like how long and wide the buffers are, how far upstream they're located, and what plants But that's just a good reminder We need to also minimize pollution in the first place. And then there's the question of how to make Actually stay there for decades to come. Now, if you've been following Ecosia for Like any ecosystem, to protect rivers in a long-lasting like growing food, with ecological needs. So, how to strike that balance? Sometimes, it's just a question of which trees Which is why the next day, we went to meet some of the communities working with Tree Aid and Ecosia. Here in Banchini, the women prepared moringa leaves from trees planted through our partnership. Planting trees like moringa and shea is really The trees yield nutritious nuts and leaves, so they don't have to trek long distances for them anymore. By moving their farms and tree nurseries away from the river banks and introducing agroforestry, we're empowering communities to sustain themselves and to generate an additional income by selling the produce directly or processed in I remember when we came to start the project revealed that, right after the rainy season, the river dries [out] completely and you only have and this is the same river that the households depend on. And so, when it happens, there's so Especially for the women traveling long distances to fetch water. And so, when we came and started with educating farmers to move back from the riparian (Fatima) From the riparian buffer? (Robert) Exactly, to do agriculture we have seen a great, massive change along the Daka river. Trees are growing along the river. So much FMNR is and helping the river to stay throughout the whole year. And so, you have enough water for the household, even for them to equally fetch and come and do their gardening. So, in fact, we have seen, or I have seen, such a big difference, so much change I would say use Ecosia, so that You can help to alleviate families from poverty. You can help families make extra income. You can help families improve their household nutrition.. Of course, there's more than just the trees. with educational sessions on how to They're also testing out innovative ways that will significantly reduce the amount of wood Protecting an ecosystem, like a river, means that you all the factors that are endangering it. Because you can't change a habit without providing a solution. What's clear is that restoring but rebuilding the plants surrounding As we've seen from Tree Aid's example, if the river is being used and plant you have a bigger chance at the river You might be wondering, how are we Ecosia is a search engine like any but we invest 100% of our profits into climate action. We are restoring some of the like the Atlantic Forest in Brazil or You can see how we spend all of our profits in our financial reports, which we publish every 6 weeks on our blog, or see the impact you're having through the videos Ecosia might be the easiest way to contribute to something that sometimes can feel really big and make you feel paralyzed. So, if this sounds like something you'd like to be part of, I'm going to leave a link to Ecosia in the description. And here's a video you can watch about how Ecosia works. Just in case it wasn't obvious enough, This is an Ecosia tree, this is This is an Ecosia tree... This is an Ecosia tree, this one that I just bumped into is also an Ecosia tree. This is an Ecosia tree, so is this one....