- Not sure who the Macedonian's are, what they have to do with Jewish history, or why their name sounds like a tree nut? Don't fret, because I'm here Between the reign of Alexander the Great and the establishment of Jewish leaders are forced for their religious freedom and authority. Under Greek influence and oppression, these heroes stand up to the point of death, and people like Mattathias and Hannah and her seven sons, are memorialized for centuries afterwards. Many wars are fought and conflicts abound even within the community. But the Jewish people persevere, fighting for their religious (dramatic music) Whoa, oh, oh If you're like me, you might avoid someone who ends their name with But ego trip aside, Alexander to the Jewish people. When he conquers Jerusalem in 332 BCE, he becomes the only who does not order the Much of the Jewish and suddenly there are a bunch of Jewish Federation But upon his death 11 years later, a fight breaks out between over his succession. On the right side of the ring is Seleucus, who establishes a dynasty in On the left side of the ring is Ptolemy, who establishes rule in Egypt. They battle for control over changing leadership at least five times over the next 30 years. Eventually, Egypt wins for the next hundred years, until 198 BCE, when Antiochus III reconquers During the reign of Antiochus III, Judea is still its own autonomous province under Jewish rule. It's under watch but in control, like a teenager with At the center of this where the High Priest of the Temple acts as both religious and political leader, along with the Council who hold authority on certain matters. But similar to the under the Macedonian Empire, Greek Hellenist culture of the conquered people of Judea. Many Hellenist Jews wearing Greek clothing, Greek becomes the language of many Jewish people even begin the ultimate sign of However, not all Jews are aboard the Moussaka and lamb train. Even though the Temple as the religious, political, of the province, many feel that the its holiness to paganism and idolatry. Non-Jewish settlers have and the Hellenist Jews A gymnasium is established in Jerusalem, a hallmark of Greek and begins to replace the Temple as the mecca of the province. Many Jews are offended by the desecration of their holy sites and by the Hellenistic which clashes with on the spiritual. Other Jews, like me, just of going to the gym. Deepening this gap with Greek of power from Antiochus III Number four is not as tolerant to the Jews as his father was. He forces the people to assimilate, and punishes death upon those who refuse. In time, even the Temple begins to succumb to Greek influence. The High Priesthood, normally passed down through Aaron's family lineage, is taken over by a who murders the previous High Priest, and steals money and to appease the king. Many of the Hellenist Jews and may have even suggested Many observant Jews, however, of their religion is threatened. Among the latter group are the Hasmoneans, who leave Jerusalem for the safety of the to gather the seeds for Jewish resistance. Antiochus IV begins to up the He orders Jews to make sacrifices to Greek gods and desecrate the Sabbath. He forbids circumcision of and any other observance of the Torah, making these Jewish actions By outlawing these distinct Antiochus introduces a new type of danger to the Jewish people. Not the physical, genocidal but rather a cultural anti-Semitism that threatens to destroy The biggest of these cultural Bacon. One man named Eleazar understands by these decrees and sets Antiochus himself orders a major transgression in the Bible. But Eleazar knows that to his community, and even something as small as an Egg McMuffin that a Jew has abandoned their beliefs. So Eleazar bravely and defends his religion. He refuses to eat the pig. As punishment, Eleazar Witnessing this act of defiance, another family of martyrs A woman named Hannah and her to eat pig, but they, too, choose death. One by one, each of the until Hannah herself This story of defiance is so powerful that later even Christian Europe begins to celebrate these seven martyrs, making them the symbol of heroism and Antiochus the symbol But back in Judea, Antiochus His efforts towards throughout the country, and to Mattathias and his five A group of soldiers stand before the town and order every Jew to and then eat its flesh. As the villagers listen in horror, Mattathias and his sons stand before them and refuse to submit. They cry out that they will Only this time, instead Mattathias and his sons seize the soldiers and kick the altar to the ground. They stab and kill the soldiers. The Maccabees have started a revolt. That's right, it's time in the air singing eyyo about the story of Hanukkah. The Hasmonean family is because of Mattathias' son Judah, who was nicknamed the Their story is recorded in which are not included in but are the crucial sources of this turning point in Jewish history. The story of a group of who fight a war of beliefs and values against the world's The reality of the The Hasmoneans know there are but they also know they have no choice. This is their mission and it is up to God to decide whether they win. After their act of defiance, the Maccabees take up arms and flee to the hills with all committed to defending their religion. They wage a war against their rulers, and a year later Mattathias His son Judah takes and it is he who captures Jerusalem and restores the Temple in 164 BCE. Judah makes a bold move and at the time a growing power After five years of continued Judah is also killed in battle. When you hear about you probably think of the As the Talmud recounts, the Jewish people reclaim and finally restore it to its glory after years of vandalism and idolatry. When they light the Menorah once again, they can only find enough oil for one day. But a great miracle happens. The oil lasts for way longer. Six days. Just kidding, eight days, obviously. The story of Hanukkah is arguably the most famous Jewish holiday, but there's so much more to We may eat latkes, jelly donuts, and other oily foods that and destroy our facial pores. But we also celebrate the miracle of a small Jewish army defeating the world's greatest We celebrate the establishment of a prosperous, self-ruling dynasty and the successful fight for Jewish autonomy We celebrate the religious The Hasmoneans lead Judea to victory and the boys are finally back in town. Judah's two brothers, Jonathan and Simeon, take leadership and begin of Jewish independence and sovereignty in the land of Israel. They continue to expand and reinstate the position and Seven years into their Jewish sovereignty, John Hyrcanus I begins a major mark of independence His son, Aristobulus, who bestows upon himself the title of king. And 26 years after the the Roman Senate officially The Jewish kingdom is with military prowess But don't get too comfy, because it isn't long before the peace of Jewish sovereignty is disrupted. Under John Hyrcanus, a rift develops between the Hasmoneans This second group, known as the Pharisees, anchors their beliefs in the idea that the Bible has always to which Moses and his Based on religious grounds, they oppose the combined position of the High Priest and the monarchy, and reject the change in Hasmonean policy of military expansion. Of the more controversial by the later generations of of forced conversion. John Hyrcanus sets the stage and becomes the first Jewish leader to convert a full race which is in direct Later Hasmoneans follow suit with the conquest of the Itureans, setting a dangerous precedent Tension between the Pharisees under the rule of John Hyrcanus' two sons, Aristobulus and Alexander Yannai, when the two Hasmonean leaders begin to adopt the practices of the Sadducees. The Sadducees are another Jewish sect in direct conflict with the Pharisees, believing that only the They take issue with the of the Pharisees traditional Judaism that occasionally of the written text, among the Jewish nation. In time, a civil war breaks out. It takes a queen to end the violence, which Salome Alexandra does after succeeding her She's Pharisaic, unlike her husband, and creates compromise by that had previously been in effect. But when her reign ends, another civil war erupts The war escalates between the brothers, while at the same time into the region. The internal conflict only worsens the Jewish cause, and Rome ultimately succeeds in conquering the Jewish kingdom and establishing a Roman state. As the famous Jewish &quot;Because two brothers could not get along, we lost our freedom and 20 years later, a rift in the Roman Empire allows the next Hasmonean leader to take the throne in Judea. Mattathias Antigonus takes advantage of the shaky political situation resulting from the deaths of to gain the support of the Parthians and restore the Hasmonean Kingdom 23 years after being abolished. The Jews in the area rush to his side in a display of national But all good things must come to an end, and Mattathias Antigonus cannot against the larger Roman forces. Three years after his appointment, Mattathias Antigonus is defeated. After withstanding a five-month siege, Jerusalem falls to the Roman Empire. Though the Temple stands and the Jewish people remain in Jerusalem, the Romans give over full control of Judea to Herod to rule under the Roman Empire. The Hasmonean Dynasty is no more. The success of the Maccabees has never stopped inspiring Decades later in the first Jews tried to mimic the by revolting against the Romans. And over 2,000 years later, the Hasmonean story is every year on Hanukkah. The story is one of Jewish freedom and religious independence, of martyrs and heroes to save Jewish practice and culture. Names like Eleazar, Mattathias and Hannah represent the courage and fight for their religion. Though the Hasmonean dynasty these heroes imbued confidence throughout history and until today. Even now, the Jewish people fight to keep our religion and culture alive against assimilation and anti-Semitism. Yet despite our struggles, in religious belief and observance, the Jewish people continue to survive and leave a legacy of strength, Hey guys, thanks for watching this video. If you like what you see here make sure to check out our other videos. In addition, make sure to subscribe and hit that notification bell so you'll know first when (upbeat music)