In 1928, the fledgling Nazi Party and struggling for legitimacy. Any observer worth his salt would have But global events will throw them There's definitely an opportunity which even in their wildest dreams Propaganda man Joseph Goebbels devotes himself while former war hero Hermann Goring ...and wannabe soldier inducts a dangerous new ally He builds loyalty by giving people who had had a breakdown In their fight the key players will turn on each What takes place, of course, most infamous acts [gunshots] This is the inside story the jealousy, power struggles that will create a monster and fuel the May 1928. Federal elections present the Nazis... VOTE GERMAN NATIONAL ...with their first major assault Combining Himmler's Goring's wooing of the establishment the inner circle have high hopes But it's not to be. The 1928 election for the Nazi Party The people didn't really buy Any observer worth his salt and indeed did write off, THE NATIONAL SOCIALIST Despite throwing everything into VOTE FOR ...their message, one of economic doom, In Germany, the good times roll. After years of financial crisis, the country is riding high Things have never been better. In 1928, the German public to be taken out of their comfort zone Fringe parties at either end need a crisis to get into power. The inner circle needs a miracle. But then America delivers the national calamity October 29th 1929 The American stock exchange [Richard] Germany had prospered briefly It depended on an expanding The Wall Street crash brought the international economy Overnight, millions of dollars' worth Germany and its economy The Wall Street Crash are an enormous disaster for Germany. Germany doesn't have that can weather This is a major opportunity After seeming irrelevant, In this chaotic climate, it finally looks like the inner circle When the coalition government collapses, another national election For two of the Party's young guns, Propagandist and public speaker throws himself into the campaign. This is a massive opportunity who's now You know, this is now a national stage he can, well, not strut across, And backroom boy and meticulous planner lends his organisational skills. They want to make themselves visible, And top priority is paid that there was a representative Together, they run a campaign that aims A political blitzkrieg. [Guy] Every beer hall, every inn, every village hall, every town hall, is going to have a Nazi meeting in it And they use innovative, new ways They will drive around in a van, they will distribute But most of all, their sheer energy In the last four weeks there are 34,000 meetings It shows in this sort of the sheer energy that's going And this tactic will prove On September 14th 1930, The vote for the Nazis It's four times greater They now win 6.5 million votes and it gives them 107 seats This is a political earthquake. For Goebbels, Goebbels was actually taken aback. He had hoped to do well This marks the moment when and clearly a force They're not in power yet but they're on the map and as the second people are taking notice. For the big players, the outcome The 1930 election is a turning point and they can now suddenly begin to think that they might even that they might get ministerial jobs, they might have For the first time in six years, through legitimate means But for one member of the inner circle, ambitious former war hero the result means more The election actually really sees He's been in parliament since '28 but he's got what is now and also he's got [Michael] He is an industrialist himself, And he's able to use the promise to encourage support among But in Hitler's inner circle, it never The Nazi Party But despite political gains, from their days of violence The SA Brown Shirts, is becoming a redundant embarrassment. [Guy] The SA look like the rabble Yes, they wear uniforms They're causing a lot of trouble, because Nazism is now During the lead-up to the election, and in some cases, In the early 1930s, there's no doubt sometimes they actually get involved They urgently need a leader With his military background, Goring was the commander of the SA There is this sense perhaps that this is But Goring will be disappointed. Heinrich Himmler has other plans. He doesn't want to lead the SA himself as an opportunity to shore up His well-drilled SS offer Hitler one that Himmler has moulded to fit the chivalric ideals [Guy] Himmler wants the SS He doesn't want it he wants it to be a highly disciplined, and highly elite force. DRESDNER ROAD SS But the SA, GERMANY ...are a major obstacle to his plans. Whoever takes charge of the SA needs and he thinks he knows just the man. A long-forgotten member Five years ago, the World War One had been a leading light in the SA, before a clash with Hitler saw him excluded from the Party. Soon after, he moved to Bolivia. Throughout all those sort of years there's been a Nazi who's stayed ...and that is the ever-thoughtful, Himmler had been recruited And now he sees him Working behind the scenes, Himmler smooths the rift between Hitler [Christopher] In 1930, Hitler asks Rohm to Hitler never entirely trusted Rohm but he recognised his skills Rohm is back. For Himmler, the arrival of Rohm restores the relationship Himmler really thinks that there's maybe this will help to strengthen which at the moment is still quite weak. The move looks like a masterstroke. Rohm will strengthen Himmler's position [Guy] Hermann Goring desperately wanted So Goring essentially regards himself It's another example of the shape Rohm's return is initially welcomed but things soon go sour. During the period after 1930, a relationship between Goebbels and Rohm Goebbels didn't like, really, Goebbels quite liked the fact that it did go out and beat up GERMANY IS FREE! As Goebbels loses his influence Goring sees a string of powerful jobs As Rohm's rise erodes their power, it creates an unlikely alliance Rohm was being given a position the ambitions and advancement Rohm is dangerous Now back in the inner circle, but whilst the self-confident former they must bide their time. Though former war hero Herman Goring from military appointments, Hitler Goring was probably at his best, mixing with people, making contacts, Goring's a survivor, but he'd be nothing without his beloved Carin is a very important figure, I think, in trying to beef Goring up They've been through everything but at a terrible cost to her health. Increasingly frail, Goring is grief-stricken... ...but the inner circle will use any ...and Carin's death provides Throughout this period of turmoil, Goebbels, you know, the firebrand He is a womaniser, Goebbels, a very unlikely womaniser, if you look He has a lot of charm [Toby] Goebbels and Magda with a guard of Hitler Youth and it was a very happy occasion. With Goring's wife gone, there's [Richard] There was always a great deal about networking, and I think that Joseph and Magda after the death of Carin Goring They both make the most to secure their place The newly married Mr and Mrs Goebbels So when their beloved Hitler there's, you know, Magda baking cakes, and Goebbels meanwhile in sort of on the record player has some of Hitler's greatest hits playing, But Goring will fight back. He soon overcomes his grief to check his desire for money and power, he makes himself available We tend to think of Goring as in these big silly uniforms, you know. He looks like something And actually, that belies is a very calculating, very ruthless And now he's a widower, he can really dedicate his life Against this backdrop of constant one man is quietly moving up the ranks, Himmler, meanwhile, the quiet backroom He is very much building up Both the SS and the SA grow rapidly Unemployment brings a lot of the men You start to see the SS become more But although Himmler's SS not everything Himmler's plan to bring back Ernst Rohm The SA are becoming even more powerful and bully boy Rohm has no intention Himmler feels like the junior partner, feels like that Rohm's the big boy, Realising his error, Himmler focuses If he can expand their duties he will consolidate their role Himmler's beginning to think an intelligence service within the SS, one that is independent from that [Guy] He needs an apparatus that will spy not only but also can spy on people under the pretext And so he forms this thing the Security Service, the SD. Himmler needs someone someone he can trust, who will understand his vision without compromising his powerbase. In June 1931, Himmler meets a young man This interview The man who comes knocking for this job of running the SD With his strong Aryan looks, he makes He's a vision of what he thinks And Himmler, the wannabe soldier... GERMANY IS FREE! ...is also impressed He's also very impressed by in military language for the creation The well-educated Heydrich in Germany's diminished post-war navy. But then he became embroiled [Robert] He was simultaneously engaged and one of the women's father was a very influential man But when the affair came out, Heydrich treated the father's complaints an attitude that appalled the navy. He kept one of his fiancees, He wasn't considered So he was hoofed out. and so therefore, you know, we are Now keen to impress, tells Himmler All he has done is read as a boy and some spy novels and he uses to impress Himmler as to how That is the limit of his experience. Heydrich learns on the job The ambitious Himmler now control a security service authorised to spy It's a tool Whilst the inner circle Germany is falling deeper and Hitler continues to capitalise One of the things in the period after the 1930 elections more and more as a respectable political movement. A series of elections bring and by 1932, the Nazis are technically But a string of coalition governments conspire to deny them power. WHO STILL BELIEVES IN THALMANN By now, a massive 30% UFA-FACTORY CELL When yet more elections NATIONAL SOCIALIST ...the inner circle fear MINISTRY OF THE REICHSWEHR ...they'll miss their moment. For a failed playwright the Nazis have been good At just 35, he's in charge This is his biggest opportunity to date. Goebbels' approach is entirely innovative He is using all the theatrics at his that no political leader's Goebbels devised a campaign device in which Hitler flew from town to town, and the troops were on the ground descend from the skies falling down from the clouds. And it made an enormous impact on people It's inspired. Joseph Goebbels makes a real leader, a viable option. Hitler looks like and his rivals look as though [cheering] But despite their efforts, Sharing 50% of the vote between them, the Nazis and Communists If the inner circle they'll need the support But that's easier said than done. [Richard] The German president, deeply distrusted Hitler. He couldn't understand mass politics, couldn't understand Hindenburg cannot believe he has to do Only President Hindenburg the Chancellorship. Knowing this, seizes a chance to improve his standing. Goring watches very closely He's president of the Reichstag, he's in a good position to see Using his reputation and contacts, Goring's out to prove he's the only one that can deliver Hitler Goring has a crowning moment in 1933. It's Goring who effects the meeting. He puts together these two men in a way Goring persuades Hindenburg And so this facilitation, if you like, and sees him right back Goring has saved the day. On January 30th 1933, President Hindenburg finally appoints [applause] For the inner circle, Within ten years, they've gone to politicians, [Nigel] The day that Hitler the SA Storm Troopers under the Brandenburg Gate, each carrying torches and this had The celebrations, naturally orchestrated and give the world But they're not there yet. but the Nazis only hold a few cabinet And beneath the veneer the competition for those roles [Robert] Once Hitler becomes Chancellor, there's growing competition who aspire to high political office, and some of them will end up ...whereas others will be propelled Among those awaiting the trappings He expects to be given maybe even a ministerial job [Guy] Whenever a new government all the leading lights are waiting next to their telephone, waiting for their leader to give them But although thanked Goebbels' years of terror haven't made him popular in Berlin. GOEBBELS SETTLES THE SCORE Goebbels suddenly realises as he waits Hitler can't afford that might wreck his tenuous grasp He realises that he hasn't got a job, who is going to be appointed and he was utterly cast into depression. But whilst one star fades, GERMANY WAKE UP Goring's reward for securing Hitler is to be made Minister for the Interior Goring's elevation to be Minister gives him a vast, controlling voice in all the internal domestic affairs Prussia is his base, his stronghold. Goring now focuses the resources of his vast new bureaucratic on achieving Nazi goals. It means that he can turn the Prussian And a police force Goring calls it the Secret State Police. And the Gestapo, as we all know, becomes this absolute terrifying embodiment Initially, the Gestapo are tasked but with their wider powers of arrest in Prussia, under Goring, [Richard] His role as is really used to impose on the whole area His police now enforce the Party's views, and turning a blind eye Goring's so attuned He's naturally aggressive in politics, he has the means to put that aggression Goring's seizure of Prussia is enthusiastically approved by Hitler. But in others, There are two other members who look at Goring's success One of them, of course, is Goebbels the success of anybody else His nose is really put out of joint. Himmler thinks of himself as... I am the security and police person. I know about this stuff. Why the hell now suddenly in charge of the Gestapo? But even if Goring senses he feels secure, [Richard] He sets up his own research other members of the Party and he holds dossiers and files which He shows a good deal [Guy] What the Gestapo also has because it's got all Prussian police's So this gives him a lot of power. Better still, within a few weeks he acquires the Holy Grail Phone tapping, which was becomes a very important source and he's able to surprise people by saying something to them If Goring is attacked by the others, Now the Nazis prepare They're still part with just a few cabinet posts. This is not absolute power. Although the Nazis are in power, The inner circle decide They argue the coalition is doomed They now have just two months Their plan? An all-out attack on their NEVER WITH HITLER! The threat, or the imagined threat, was a vital part of the Nazi narrative and Goebbels lost no opportunity Goebbels campaigns hard, But they know propaganda alone At this stage, there's no doubt that what the movement needs something to do down the Communists the largest party still in the Reichstag. But however hard the Nazis the Communists refuse to oblige. In February 1933, are entertaining Hitler when they are delivered a miracle. [phone rings] The Reichstag is on fire. [Michael] When the fire after he's taken power all the evidence circumstantially would This was denied at the time when Himmler and Goebbels suggests he didn't know about it. Nazi conspiracy or not, this is A young Dutch Communist is arrested Hitler had always said He was genuinely outraged by this attack on the symbol of power, the Reichstag. Hitler seizes the moment. Within hours, he convinces Hindenburg Under the pretence civil liberties are suspended the legal authority [Toby] The Reichstag fire thus gave the to argue that the Communists were The Reichstag fire was the signal, for the unleashing of unrestrained Rohm's SA, Goring's Gestapo to brutally and systematically destroy [Christopher] You have the Prussian police with pre-prepared arrest lists At the same time, the SA and the SS The SA now enrolled to pretty much attack and kidnap drag them off to torture cellars and submit them to violence, Marxism was effectively crushed After all the Nazis' propaganda FROM NOW ON DRASTIC MEASURES ...this savage repression DAILY EVENING PAPER ...by the German public Just two weeks later, the work of Goebbels and Goring The Nazis win almost 44% of the vote, still not a clear majority, but they are The Nazis are now in the driving seat. Once again, the inner circle Power-hungry Goring already holds but now a new ministry is created He's tasked with secretly developing and building [Richard] This is the point just a minister in Prussia, he's somebody He's the natural choice and the air ministry is going to be of rearming Germany in the air. Independent and with its own substantial budget Goring is in his element. Joseph Goebbels also finally gets [Toby] It was the fulfilment of to be made Minister of Propaganda He was very proud of the idea in Germany and he was absolutely delighted with the opportunities It is a role he relishes After a number of months' preparation, writers, musicians, painters and sculptors Just ten years earlier, this young man Now he's at the helm It's the first significant step on This will become his empire With the Nazis in power, law and order must now reflect The nation's police forces and brought under the control It will be a prized [Richard] Goring thinks that he is he's set up the Gestapo in Prussia, in bringing the police But Goring has an unexpected rival in rising security boss and meticulous The relationship is a very uneven one. Goring is at the very top whereas Himmler trying to find his feet, He's very busy laying This is Himmler's big chance. He wants to be in charge run along the same lines He approaches Hitler to set out [Richard] He delivers, he's a can-do man Here's somebody who, you know, to deliver effectively Himmler gets his way of the nation's state-police forces, Goring retains his valuable Gestapo. And though he's lost out to Himmler he recognises the young bureaucrat He soon recruits him He comes to the realisation So they decide to work together, Goring is the more senior person Once again, his ambition and his ability Goring has an ulterior motive He wants the combined force and Himmler's SS and secret police to take down someone he sees [Christopher] By early 1934, had increased to three to four million. This starts to go to Rohm's head. Rohm starts to make speeches calling [Nigel] There was a real bid for power from within the Nazi Party that with some justification, as the battering ram The SA remain fixated on the idea A military junta with them on top. Although Hitler and Rohm they are ideologically poles apart. As Hitler starts to mature politically what is described summoning men to arms on street corners, Rohm starts to become who is this sort of corpulent homosexual Rohm's homosexuality but now, it's becoming an exploitable issue for main rival Goring Himmler, now finds himself There's a fascinating love-hate and indeed between Himmler and Rohm. By 1934, Himmler wants and not tainted by association with the crude thuggery Himmler finally decides his old comrade, [Nigel] Himmler, the leader of the SS, a brilliant And he got together with Goring [Guy] They both regard Rohm and they also see an opportunity then there's a potential land grab They need to focus all their resources, so Himmler's sidekick Reinhard Heydrich ...tasked with finding damning evidence. He puts his new SD on the case. [Richard] They begin in which they try to find out and they bring and they're gonna feed it to Hitler. Despite targeting Rohm's homosexuality, As old colleagues, but the plotters [Richard] No secret was made were trying to persuade Hitler a decadent element in the SA. There's absolutely no doubt and the thought were all indulging in homosexual orgies Hitler is told that Rohm's influence is not only corrupting the SA's A disgusted Hitler finally gives Now it's open season Heydrich is ordered by Himmler to start confected information, The Nazi way is make stuff up find him guilty, and this is In June 1934, He cancels and orders them to go on leave. Dispersed across the country in small One of the strange things of course, is Rohm's naivety. He seems to have no sense, really, And yet I think he really thinks the SA will help to push the revolution [Christopher] In June 1934, Rohm, by some rumours circulating that there and he went down to Bad Weissee, It will prove a fatal error. Goring, Himmler and Heydrich have been working around the clock and have finally found their trump card. By the end of June 1934, amazingly, the evidence that Rohm is a traitor And there's this kind of documentation he's the recipient of millions of marks to try and overthrow Hitler Of course, ERNST ROHM Armed with their apparent proof that Rohm is a traitor the plotters move to convince Hitler Rohm's fate is sealed. What takes place, of course, is one of the sort of most infamous acts It's called the Night of the Long Knives Faced with the falsified evidence, Hitler, the Chancellor of Germany, He drove in a convoy of cars to the resort of Bad Wiesse. At 6.30 in the morning, Hitler charges [Nigel] ...opens the door and says, &quot;Get up, you're under arrest A sleep-bedazzled and bewildered Rohm doesn't understand Hitler and his group also arrest SA men This is something that the Nazis to show they were actually trying to get they call it, of the SA to regard it Proving their role Himmler's SS round up wiping clean the decadence of the SA. Over the next 24 hours, many are shot. This is actually, in some ways, for which Himmler has prepared [gunshot] They are demonstrating very clearly that they are the most loyal instrument [gunshot] Others, including Rohm, are imprisoned. [Nigel] Out of sentimental regard Hitler wants to spare his life, by Goring and Himmler who say, if you kill all the underlings of Rohm, After going this far, The following day, Hitler holds and their families in the gardens While this tea party is going on, the playing out of the Night of the Long It is like a gangster film. There are people being massacred, literally just butchered, shot, killed. But there's one death During the afternoon, they steadily work Hitler is still very reticent so he sends word that he could take his life himself The SS guards give Rohm a pistol [Guy] He is told, you know what to do, if we don't hear a shot in ten minutes, It might be checkmate, Ten minutes passes, not a sound. A fighter to the end, he's not Two SS men open the door... and he says, &quot;You would have to shoot me yourselves [gun cocks] So they shoot him three times Rohm's death is the bloody finale We still don't know how many died But it was certainly in the hundreds. And it gave a notice, that you opposed the Nazis' slightest Within weeks, the mighty SA is nothing And with Rohm gone, the major players [Richard] After the Rohm purge, all begin to develop their own interests, but the critical You had to remain loyal, because you would suffer Two weeks later, and Hitler merges the posts declaring himself the supreme leader The inner circle is now unstoppable.