- In America today, somewhere between 50% and 60% of Americans admit to &quot;self-silencing.&quot; As a country, we are not being honest with each other about what we think. And we all end up veering off paths of fulfillment and flourishing, chasing what we think other people think. If I think everybody else is - In today's landscape, a growing chorus of dissatisfaction echoes through every corner of society. The principles of major industries like government, education, and the workforce are being questioned. Are these systems broken? And if so, what do people and work to look like? - We're kind of done And you're seeing a craving - My guest today is Todd Rose, an author, professor, And he argues that approaches that seek to control and create conformity prohibit individuals from flourishing. - I don't think people right now want work to be the end-all be-all. They don't need work to be the thing that gives them purpose, but they are starting to expect that work play a positive role in the broader lives that they wanna live. - Later, we'll visit a company whose mission-focused means there are no bosses, there's less rigid hierarchy, and it's a place where employees are empowered to be their own managers. Stay tuned as we uncover the repercussions of false consensus, the constraints within and the potential significance of increasing individual autonomy. The only way to solve our biggest problems is to have the audacity to try. Welcome to &quot;In the Arena with Evan Baehr&quot;. Todd, really excited to dive We are gonna cover a lot You have a really interesting platform as a scholar, an author. You are an entrepreneur, you're an academic, you - Reformed academic. Correction accepted. People pay you to speak, they want your ideas. But really, it seems like to sort of overturn a paradigm. I don't see that on a lot Tell me a little bit about it sounds so crazy. - Yeah, it's a great pickup line, right? Paradigm. Look, I think everybody in And it just feels like And you know, we're looking at causes, we're pointing at different things, but this idea of a paradigm is just simply the fundamental assumptions and principles that people use to build a society. And every so often throughout history, that paradigm starts and people start to lose faith in it. And bad things happen and - So one of your big academic ideas, philosophical ideas, is what you describe as Take a few minutes and unpack - Collective illusion where most people in a group that they don't privately agree with simply because they incorrectly think most everybody else in And so as a result, entire with something that almost - So, dumb example: Let's say I'm at a cafeteria restaurant with a bunch of people. I don't like tomatoes. I think that everyone else likes tomatoes. I want to be liked by those other people, so I order tomatoes, I would want tomatoes? We all know of these small where we're like, &quot;Wait, Right? Like- But what we've found in our is that these collective or isolated or small. And we all end up veering off paths of fulfillment and flourishing, chasing what we think other people think. In an age of social media, this becomes an unmitigated Consider this, for example: On, well, what was - X, please. Research done on it when it was Twitter that about 80% of all content is generated by only 10% of the users. And it turns out that 10%, they're not remotely representative On almost every social issue, But you can see the problem here, right? If only 10% of people hold of a view, but you think it's 80%, unless you're willing to go against what you think the majority thinks, you are likely to say nothing, self-silence, go along to get along. And then pretty soon, the only voice that anyone's and the result's a collective illusion. - So as a child, watching how you speak, hearing the words you're our approach of mimicry actually works, we learn language. And maybe kind of pre-internet days, spending time at the Rotary or the VFW and having beers and conversations, that actually was maybe a coming into us to understand. - Obviously, it's biased 'cause it's people that you're near, but it's maybe different ages or races or socioeconomic statuses. - Also, you know, the reputation There's a little more checks on things. - So a real problem you is that the content that we are consuming is shaping how we mimic other people. - Exactly, and we don't realize that this phenomenon exists. But we've known about This isn't new. It's just on steroids now. - I wanna push on one element though of how this shapes my own behavior. Why do we decide to follow the thing even if we know it's not what we want? - There's two things that go into how you end up with a collective illusion. And it's not some person behind the curtain It's just how our brains are wired. All humans, including me, including you, even though I don't like it, we have a conformity bias. Our brains are wired to, we'd prefer to be with our There's a huge advantage There is. And here's where it You would think that how your brain would have this of estimating group It's this incredibly simplistic shortcut. Your brain assumes the loudest voices repeated the most are the majority. In America today, somewhere between 50% and 60% of Americans admit to self-silencing. As a country, we are not about what we think. It would be bad enough if because our groups really When most of the time, your group actually agreed with you in private. It's an illusion. So your behavior is actually potentially destroying the very group that you're trying to That's where we're at today. I mean, we have more private opinion data than I think any other And I'm telling you, it is unbelievable. It doesn't matter whether politics, the future of the country, the kinda lives we wanna live, or even the American Dream- the defining feature is - Clearly, there are some novel I wanna connect them to these big trends that I really see as How do we educate our kids? And how do those kids become adults who go on to find meaning Connecting the challenge to this sort of crisis we have - So let's start with education. If I could boil it down to one thing, it's that the vast majority of the public, including parents, want They don't want a better mousetrap, right? They want a fundamentally They want it to be about cultivating their child's unique potential, preparing them to flourish, right, and really make a contribution. And look, they want them doing work that they enjoy. This is what most everybody wants. That's not the system we have. And I don't even mean to be, it was never meant to be We have a system that was largely as anonymous widgets. I mean, I don't even mean that That was the point, right? Treat everyone exactly the same. You go through the same We'll sort you as best we can. Some of you will go on to college. The purpose of public is just college prep. That idea that everyone and that's the end-all be-all It's not part of the It's kind of crazy. So here's the problem though: There's a lot of unanimity with in terms of the and good careers. But when you ask them what they think overwhelmingly most everybody is perfectly happy with They think that most people standardized tests, everybody taking the same It's pretty unbelievable. Education's not really Not a fully functioning - North of 80% of American no choice on where they - Correct. So the only kind of in that captured system is one that we all agreed to, or we believed we all agreed to. Unless you have the money to just opt out. So think about it, if I'm like, &quot;I don't really like I really want something else for them. But I think I'm kind of alone in that.&quot; If I think everybody else is It creates a sense of hopelessness - I wanna pick up one you loathe Frederick Taylor. - Yeah. Listen, Frederick Taylor is, like, the worst person - Who was he and what did - Frederick Taylor is in this rise of deep paternalism. Frederick Taylor is like, &quot;Hey, listen. This idea of people starting and choice and building a great It's just wasteful. It's inefficient.&quot; And so he comes up with this idea. He says, &quot;Look, for anything that matters, there's one right way to do it, and there's one right outcome.&quot; And he does that in the workforce. This is where he is gonna go after. Where he starts to restructure between employees and their employer. Anyone that works in corporate America is living under the shadow If you're now just cogs you need an entire group of people who manages those cogs, right? So he does this. And of course, if you're this is kind of great. If work is now structured one-size-fits-all way with those of us that and everyone else does what they're told, not surprising that what into this essentially factory model. It's preparing people for this new economy that he's created. And so when we think like education, that's so important, could get so off course in alignment between the purpose that it serves and the purpose the that's how. - I wanna talk a little and that management 100, 120 years ago, these - Yeah. in the early days of Coke and Cargill and Morgan and Mellon, all these inventors that And it's around, I don't that there's this long continuous flatline of GDP per capita. And then there's just And what I'm hearing you we should've had sort of like, you know, Montessori knitting circles instead. And I'm like, &quot;No.&quot; I want everyone to have Let's unpack that for a sec 'cause I'm glad you're clarifying- although Montessori knitting - It would be cool. It'd be cool. - Here's the thing, it is certainly true, and I'll be the first to say, that robbing people of absolutely can increase material gains. For sure. And in some areas like education, the birth of, like, the which is the biggest mass education in the history of the world that we did, you were never gonna get that through a bespoke model, right? You were either gonna give or you were gonna get some and other kids got nothing. What I'm saying is that the gains that we've are not worth the trade-off and that we didn't need I don't think it's remotely controversial to say the point of life The point of life was joy, whatever you wanna call But when I, from the day that I enter a school system to the last day I get my gold have almost no say in the life I'm living, it's not terribly surprising to increase genuine life satisfaction. And people are wildly different in terms of the things that they value. - You have described COVID as having an effect on work maybe at Fill us in on what you've around COVID, and particularly and business owners who are that we think will What have you seen? And this wasn't rocket science: Every single public shock to a system, war, famine, you know, plagues, has always done a number So I think a couple of things that affects work in a profound way. Number one, when you look for the work you do, there's still, like, things like pay and benefits still matter to people a lot. I would've been super skeptical &quot;We don't care what we get paid.&quot; Yes, you do. But now in the top three consistently, there's this new idea of And it doesn't just mean remote work. There's a little more nuance there in the ability to have some flexibility about how I do my work. But the other thing that is the complete plummeting in almost everything that We think everybody cares about this. The job title, the company you know, all this stuff, A lot of the swag, all the free it's just, in private, What do I get out of What's risen up consistently, and it's one of those things which was surprising, is they wanna do work that This meaning dimension is here to stay. Second, they wanna be trusted Like, okay, they want meaning You pair that with the broader zeitgeist of we're kind of done and you're seeing a this is where I'll come whatever we got for which we did get something, it took this other part of our lives, where we want purpose and we wanna really flourish, and made it a devil's bargain, where work's not gonna but then you can go find that afterwards with the extra money you have. I don't think people right now want work to be the end-all be-all. They don't need work to be the thing that gives them purpose. But they are starting to expect that work play a positive role in the broader lives that they wanna live. - I wanna talk a little on how our attitudes For the most part, You can choose and have some portability about where you work. But when I look at how what has happened across entrepreneurship in this heavy capitalist market, there do not seem to that through how they manage, are in alignment with your observations. - Oh, no. And if you think about it, this has been the trend It's very hard, especially to turn those things around organized around a paradigm that is built on scientific very hard. Because we've been in even when we don't like it, we're like, it sort of has to be some version of this. Let's take, and I'm sure you know them, - They grow tomatoes. It's heavy in California. It's basically like, of, like, tomato paste So into this industrial They have built an entire industry- now, they are killing at the top. - 800 million in revenue. Like, even for me, I'm like, &quot;No, come on. How is that? How does that not just Right? But what you see is not only have they been incredibly they're beating any - Let's take a break from our conversation to go to Los Banos, California, to get a closer look at this no-boss model at a Morning Star facility. - So Liberty Factory is actually probably our most complex because we do so many - This is James, an - Our season is from the beginning of July through the beginning of November. - Because we visited in the off-season, actual tomatoes were kind of hard to find. But normally, it looks more like this. Producing 5 million tons you'd expect Morning Star top-down hierarchical But they call their no-boss approach &quot;mission-focused self-management.&quot; Employees choose their mission, and that defines their daily tasks. - So what's going on here is - So it's like a progression. - This is Tara. Her mission is to ensure that is thriving at Morning Star. - Hello. Most of my day's spent So when you think about it's built on agreements, and the structure is human relationships. - But we wanted to know how this model actually functions between colleagues. Workers create a colleague This is basically like a job description. It lists out the daily task and the colleagues who - Tomatoes keep going down the line. Sort out tomatoes that have The pinch beds actually remove the skins from the tomatoes before they're diced. - James's mission involves administering the facility's production. It includes knowing a lot about tomatoes- and I mean a lot. - So you're evaporating the ending up at about 31%. About 15% of every kibble recipe, as far as dog food, is tomato pumice. Of course, diced tomatoes can be used for all types of different products. You know, salsas and soups and all kinds of different things. It's amazing. - We have a couple different But a lot of where I really find out where the needs are is Good morning. Thank Meeting with them through We talk a lot, which we're gonna get into is collaboration, right? Getting others involved and Because you don't have a &quot;Okay, here's your checklist.&quot; - These meetings occur monthly to talk about challenges, conflict resolution tactics, - And that means ownership Whether even if you weren't the one making the in holding the other person - So to your point, Leo, So it's all of us together. - Yeah, okay, so what that pump over there, Jesse? - Leo works in the electrical And he's also a meaning he acts as a when they have self-management issues. - We don't have a human that we do have to a boss is our mission. My mission statement is where human and electrical energy can reach their full capabilities. You get to really stand on your work ethic and your accomplishments here. There's no hard lines. Everyone also has the ability &quot;Hey, why is this happening this way?&quot; So there's a lot of to grow into new areas of - Conflicts are mediated. If they can't come to agreement, having a third person usually helps resolve the issue. - Morning Star says it collaboration, efficiency, But still, the company's from a traditional workplace structure. - When you talk about and people say that it doesn't work, I truly believe it's 'cause The creativity that comes compared to a system it pushes you to be uncomfortable to the point to where you at what you're trying to accomplish. What do you think's important for us to leave here with today? - Some feedback that I is that they like the take it out outside of work. - I think I'm a better communicator now, especially in my personal life - I believe that if you give them the ability to kind of to pursue their dreams, to flourish, you're gonna do things here you're never gonna be - It's interesting to innovative ideas could be unlocked through more while giving employees more And the impacts that that could Let's return now to our Obviously, Morning Star is performing incredibly well economically. What do we know about the happiness or satisfaction or flourishing And what do we even mean - First of all, Morning Star, they have the Self-Management Institute that studies all this. I know from the data that I've seen that they pretty consistently of satisfaction at work, I think the bigger picture here is there's this sort of the lives we wanna live, and we all kind of know And whether you call that flourishing, you know, purpose, fulfillment, whatever, I believe most everyone's And let's just call it flourishing. We do understand a number And then that will have Now, do I think everything No. Like, but you can back that off and realize there are dozens and dozens of variations of this, where you start by assuming humans have dignity and that you don't have to control every aspect of their life to get productivity, So from my perspective, in the flourishing space is we keep falling for this People are unbelievably and the kind of value they get from the exact same experience, okay? So any talk about flourishing has to start with the fact At the core of all research that really drives a lot of flourishing is this idea of autonomy, of saying people believe over their own life. - When you look at the top 10 priorities in aggregate for the American public, for what they mean by a good life, the number one thing that people care about more than anything is doing work that has a The fifth highest priority is being engaged in your community. And we also ask people how they're doing on all these attributes. Are they achieving it right now? In the top 10 most engaged in your community's number five, it has the lowest level of - Hmm. say they are debt-free than even though they care about both. - But the demand is there. - They just, what's going on? - So a couple things. One we know for sure and one Massive collective illusion. We actually don't think It's a bottom dwelling, we perceive it to be a for most everybody else. - But here's, I think, the bigger one. And we don't have an answer yet, but we have to figure this out, is there's clearly some set of obstacles to getting engaged in my community. And we don't know what those really are. Or I don't know; maybe somebody does. But we're gonna figure that out. So there's things we can do, but it really comes back to, at the end of the day, live in a society, in which about what most people think. And the reason this is so critical is if you woke up today and thought, &quot;Most people, including the people in the other political party, actually hold my same values.&quot; Think about what that would do to the way you think It's when we start to and so out of touch with like, &quot;Wow, this isn't even decent,&quot; that we actually start to Find these subtle ways to You'll have more of an effect than you possibly imagine on society. - Let me put a contrast to you. I've observed from afar, large consulting firms, working to recruit sort of which some would argue activist training camps, see their civic life, their fight for justice, as And they carry that mentality, so the affinity groups, the marches, the protests at places like that, and some conversations &quot;I don't really believe in that stuff. We are in a all-out war for talent. It's what these kids want. In great contrast though, Brian Armstrong, Coinbase, says, &quot;We're not a family. We're a team. We don't do politics here. Not because I'm conservative but we don't do politics 'cause - Right. - And those are pretty How does your research speak to either one of those positions? - That's great. So two pieces of data that we've got in this space that converge. One, within the workforce like, what do people want? People do not want their CEOs taking stances on social issues. It's just not important to them, but they think other people do, right? Now, here's what's interesting about that. There's two groups of people in America that are, in my mind, the most susceptible to collective illusions. The first is politicians. The other one is CEOs. You're obsessed about meeting market need. You're obsessed with the war for talent. You've gotta get the best people, but you also don't realize that the people you're are not the majority. They're often just a very vocal fringe. The second piece of data to this point, we have a different we didn't invent, but kind of methodology for when because they really can't tell the truth. We deployed that about 18 months ago or so on all these super-sensitive Everything from things like parents having more say in schools to transgender stuff in college sports to, like, workforce issues like CEOs. Nobody upon nobody, no demographic in the country, in private has even 25% of their group wanting CEOs to take public stands on controversial issues. Nobody wants this. You show them the data. You You're like, &quot;This is Right? And then you show them and Like, this is, like, the greatest thing. I don't want us to be doing this, but I feel like I have to.&quot; I'm like, &quot;But imagine that to recruit talent or win market share. And it's actually the opposite. You're misreading your own customers and your own employees.&quot; To me, the future is this, which is, it's more like Coinbase. Listen, it's not because Politics don't matter. It's that that's not the - Hmm. I don't need you to have, as soon as the CEO takes a stand, that purports to represent everybody in that organization, right? You're never gonna win. I think you saw the collective illusion at play there with Netflix. Bending over backwards, And then they're finally just like, &quot;Look, we're, like, bleeding customers.&quot; - Give kind of a call to action to entrepreneurs that are listening. Where might you invite or solutions to some of - Maybe not surprisingly, like, to me, I think entrepreneurship You know, even way back when, when you had these and communism and Marx, Marx just completely of an entrepreneur, right? It's just this amorphous, Like, it's just behemoth. And then there's, like, the people, right? Like, what he didn't by definition are constantly trying to overturn the apple cart, right? Constantly questioning the aim They're the lifeblood of a free market and a free society. And I would say a couple especially in these paradigm where it's not that we Like, the very purpose of Everything is on the table now. Old solutions don't work, and we don't necessarily even want them. But we don't necessarily and we don't know what to choose. So, into that breach, who else In my view, not only do in the free market, We have to take that same It's not just private solutions. It's the entrepreneurial mindset that needs to be moved So when I think about people who operate in a nonprofit space and there's almost like is &quot;I'm doing good for Like, you're a social entrepreneur. You gotta think like that And the reason that's important, and I think one of the biggest problems, we've got some work on this is in the social sector, we often are focused on problems, not the human beings - Hmm. I am obsessed about the individuals whose need I'm trying to meet. And it doesn't matter what All that matters is that that truly meet their I believe that we will solve some of life's biggest challenges, not just, again, economically, but on the social side if You have way more control And the ability to exercise that, the ability to say, &quot;Look, what does it mean to take What does it mean? It means I've gotta know It means I gotta understand my choices. It means I gotta take feedback. I gotta learn from those mistakes, right? A lot of us don't have that habit anymore. I think that, weirdly obsessing about what it obsessing about that concept of autonomy and that sense of self-determination, a lot of other stuff takes care of itself. - Hmm. Because if you care about it, you're gonna do the due diligence. If all you care about is you're not. - So get focused on what it means to live your own life. Realize that this age and being controlled is ending. And think about the kind and the kind of And I'm telling you, the - Well, from this, I'm that I probably believe a lot of lies. So I have some homework to do on that. - Especially half of them I've told today. This is great. - But I am really excited in the paradigm that we're in right now. That a number of the social may relate to how we the complete erosion of trust. And into that space is proper learning, which we explored a lot today. And your books are amazing, and I highly encourage people But also, when we take those insights and observations about what is true and bring them into society it's so exciting because it's it's ruthlessly given You're meeting people and saying, &quot;What do you And then when the capital it means this is not a solution for one, but it's a solution for the whole nation. - That's right. and some entrepreneurial energy, I think we can wreck shop for But this was a ton of fun. Really appreciate all your and your time today.