The working day who in Spain are as Debt collectors in tails have The company's heyday was when thousands of In the worst cases, debtors Today, the whole world as the Spaniard who can't pay. Private individuals, have been struggling with steadily The problem has been by the Corona pandemic Does this mean collapse under a The world's total debt currently That's a colossal number To pay off this debt, would have to work three To find out what's we decide to explore the We want to find out what's We visit people in the dramatic impact And we go to countries with We want to find out how the lives Is the situation hopeless? Or are there any ways After the financial crisis of 2008, Back then, after a phase of a property bubble burst. Major banks went bust and The US government had to take on The debt crisis in the USA triggered a global chain To trace the long-term we travelled to a country where The Emirate of Dubai. There we meet Sajjad Maroof, who wants to show us A map of the world In 2003, a state-owned corporation and selling them to investors. They wanted to build palaces like this one. Welcome to Sweden Beach Palace, Only the kings are The palace provides from the outdoor temperatures Scandinavian people to take sauna to open So we have a sauna over here. We can make it as Then immediately, when sauna is So we have our own snow room. That's how you enjoy the snow. So the idea was this: How to So that's Spain, you can see Portugal We try to follow but we find it difficult to make out The sharp contours Since 2008, the project called Nevertheless, one man still wants to keep building on the artificial Josef Kleindienst, has wound up here Part of his grand vision Welcome to see our I want to point out first the We are here in the roof of overlooking the Germany island, And you can see the "Strandkorbe" You see here our main island, Monaco Hotel was and it is a party hotel: 24/7 party. This is typical of Dubai, A Switzerland welcoming anyone who wants Postmodern towers They include the tallest The Burj Khalifa skyscraper was originally going But the prestigious building after the ruler of Abu Dhabi, The powerful neighbor helped Dubai The emirate with relatively little Half-finished buildings bear witness to the credit-leveraged Instead of lavish real estate, it would have been better to says sovereign debt When the inevitable crash many international They included some who'd invested in Some went bankrupt, with piles of sand One even committed suicide The other Europeans, or maybe they ran out of and it was not easy in 2008. And then we realized When 40 others run away, you have a chance to take over Even though "The World" keeps Recently, another investor on the island that Despite its past as a debtor, The emirate was lucky At the southernmost lies the undisputed bankruptcy Argentina has been Sometimes international sometimes no aid was received. We can see here what happens to meet its obligations The slum called Villa 31 spreads beneath the motorway Thousands of Argentines A century ago, Argentina was one of the five It has mineral resources and How could such a country Alejandro Bercovich is an He's been studying why The result is ever And being so badly in debt, Argentina But it still has to pay pensions so it uses a trick. Argentina simply prints large As we can see here, there's a money In order to meet the costs of the But the quantity of People can buy more Retailers respond to higher Inflation takes hold. Many Argentines can't So people meet up to barter. Meetings are arranged on and then the group meets here. Instead of money, they use points Clothes, for example, for personal hygiene items and food. Bartering looks set to In Argentina, there's no Inflation is now a serious problem In wealthy Germany, from price rises The share of income that low is disproportionately high. That's why the poorest people Duisburg is a city with many 16% of its inhabitants compared to not even Frank Wendler, knows first-hand just how bad For decades, But the business had its pitfalls. Fate took its course. After a tax audit, he owed Like its citizens, Duisburg is Starting with the crisis in the things went downhill. And the once affluent city now Germany has been The debt level is low... but the result is potholes, bridges in With Duisburg's drastic a Consolidation Pact to make the city more Nearly half of its debt partly thanks to the development The Port of Duisburg is the It lies at the end of a branch of a huge trade to connect with In Duisburg, money is being by cooperation with China. But Chinese collaboration isn't always This map shows hard-up countries that built infrastructure by taking out huge China expert Thomas Heberer is aware that China's loans can This is how economic However, China grants whether the recipients can Heberer finds this problematic. In the US, where people think big, During the Covid pandemic, the The debt clock currently stands This amount is still rising and has says banker Richard Vague. Growth in debt increases inequality. The reason is certainly in the United States, own 60 to 70% of the real estate Increase debt levels, and increase the value of stocks. Financial expert Sandra Navidi of unequal wealth distribution The economically weakest Mississippi has the highest Known debtors make 7 percentage points higher For Annita Husband, severe debt Years ago, me and my husband, we were He wasn't working. I was in between pay cheques, because I started a new job One morning I came in to work, Another coworker came in and she She said: 'Write a check Get the cash, then when Okay, so I did that. and, of course, you know, so I didn't replace the cash back. So, you know, okay, this is pretty easy! I guess forming a habit. I would keep my pay cheque the fake cheques or Altogether, Annita Her larceny was found out. She was sentenced and had to pay back the money. She was in a mess Her husband suffered a stroke Annita regularly reported In return for his services, They have what they call We have to pay 60 dollars a month. I didn't even pay on the You know, no one's working. 'Well, if you don't have it, that because you have So, I'm not going to leave my basically paralyzed husband, so I'm not gonna come back. Annita was arrested and This means a debt prison where prisoners serve time until These debts might be or overdue court costs. Even for trifling amounts people can end up in But it has nothing to do It's barbed-wire, When you get in, they go through your They strip search you, And I'll never forget this: Mother's Day was on a Sunday. I called my son, my oldest son, and the first thing he said was And that was so heart-breaking, Besides the prison-like Annita was in for another shock. She was charged 11 dollars which was added to her debts. Inmates even had to pay when the center was seeking no matter how long it took. Annita was relieved at Church's Chicken, Annita remembers that she had By doing additional tasks, that could be used to But she had a rude awakening. I was, you know, scrubbing vans. I was working in the cafeteria, Got my merits, so I went to the Warden Now, here I'm thinking all I had to and I can go back She said: 'No, you have to stay here With a part-time hourly wage Annita's release was It became apparent serve the maximum term Mississippi is joined by states that also imprison debtors. Nowhere else does being We're interested in finding out like Annita from Businesswoman K.K. Kent of such temporary workers. When I was 19, I bought and a lot of them had to And it was hard to find labor, So the restitution center opened up And I used to go and get labor to help Handle my livestock, cows, horses, load hay, unload hay, Just stuff you have to do But the staff she recruits from the I may go through four or five before I find one that I'm Because a lot of them And as soon as you pick Can I use your phone? Will you stop at the store Will you buy me some cigarettes? And there's been some and hadn't even driven a half a mile, that just, their demeanor has -- I didn't approve of it and I turned and sent them back in Some are very appreciative. Grateful for everything You know, I've had some of them say, you know, if I had a you know, my life would I don't try to cure them. I just tell them, you know, You need to figure out and do something about yourself. You don't need to look because it's not other people's Annita Husband was in over She had to think of something. Otherwise, given the it would be years 13,000 dollars! With a minimum I said: Annita, you need a plan. I just took my chances and ran. But the challenges were huge. She was only allowed She was strictly And she only got $10 They used to give us a roll of So, every morning I would I would put the roll cause you know, in I would leave with Come back, I would change I would roll the dollars or cause I can get change at work. I hand-washed my clothes, you know, stuff that I would I would, you know, do without. So I saved up This one particular day I planned to but had on a pair of under my Church's Chicken uniform. So I got a friend to take and I got on the bus Eventually, Annita and had to serve part of her suspended After nine months, Her debts were cancelled. She doesn't have a good word to say about the system My debt was pretty large, but at the restitution center and three years later You say, well, one day I'm gonna be with my family, I felt like restitution centers It is just an undercover of slavery. The systemic discrimination after slavery It's not just the neglected -- like this one in New Jersey -- More than a quarter of Blacks compared to just 17% of whites. And in Black neighborhoods, debt collectors pursue debtors Court cases are more Differences in the USA concern not In the majority-white middle class, twenty-somethings are groaning which are higher than ever. The cost of student loans In 2006, American students owed half a This figure has since If the government it means those individuals And a government the government itself is not using So the math is obvious. The folks being taxed spend less. GDP shrinks. So tax where you repay debt and creates the opposite But what about starting Couldn't states just save like mad until their debts Much of what looks like a If so, how can we get control Perhaps there are old ideas This leads us to a Sandra Navidi meets So I guess you could say that If we go back all the way you find this discussion of debt. So, there's a concept called shmita. And what shmita is, It's this idea that for you plant your crops, you harvest and then in the seventh year, It's a time where the land is And as part of that process, there's also remission of debt. So there's this idea that that you've taken on during the six is released in the seventh year. It's unlikely that this debt remission But the ideal of this, that people sometimes that there will be people who that can't be something I think that that ideal is even if we haven't Critics claim that debt to get recklessly into debt. But financial experts disagree. So the moral hazard argument is If we give an inch, Irresponsible behavior And yet when we examine the facts, Bankruptcy is a miserable experience for the average It's not something And, in fact, when we it relates to just two or three unexpected health emergency, If those are the things that that's not evidence that there's 'Listen, I'll lose my job or in order to get out of my debt.' Debt cuts for individuals are But they also make sense We're back in Duisburg, One of those who's undergone The pop singer and failed gas retailer Eventually, he contacted who helped him file After three years, Frank Wendler He's found a new rewarding job And in his private life, too, things But even if all the debts in how could the endless cycle of over-indebtedness snapping Is it possible to imagine a world in In the African neighborhood they're looking for an answer. Aita Magassa, who runs an believes in a traditional solution. Her clients, all French citizens had problems investing in Africa. The banks refused to get involved. "Tontines" are traditional where women join together and Each time, the money collected to one of the participants, who Aita Magassa applied of tontines to property purchases. It states that Aita's clients In turn, ?5,000 will be distributed to finance a house None of her clients has This is an unbeatable advantage We learn that the also works in Europe Aitia visits the resourceful lady, for whom a bank loan was never These two women show how our financial system can But a world without any Perhaps it's not even desirable. Not everyone benefits and debt has become The world must act -- Because behind all debts are