Hey you two, I need you guys to turn it into an intake manifold for a Hello everyone Today imma teach you a bit about the engineering world and how these two I talked to both machinists and designers who were work cooperatively over their long careers. So generation, so these two don't repeat the same people are. Machining refers to taking a raw chunk by removing the material in a controlled process. manufacturing. Imagine starting off with this tech box with spinning saw blades and drill bits get recycled. This process in particular is called If you've ever driven by like some shit and they got a big sign that says "CNC So these guys do the dirty work, you gotta turn it into whatever. But in order to do any of that, you need a 3D program called BlahBlahBlah, one of these, where it goes, what material it is, stress simulation. A lotta number So these two here, dangerous combo. Check it frame- rocket engine, intake manifold, you name thumbs up, thumbs down, revision, thumbs up, of it, the designer prints out a technical Their design. So pristinely drawn out. We need so FINELY finished that it is reflective, and this material. Ooof this hole right here, we but NONE of these will do. We have to order a very special tapper This is some precise shit. It's on it were like, &quot;THIS IS SOME PRECISE SHIT.&quot; They package it with legendary to make it again if it were even scratched. They hand it off to the assemblers and Alright cool man. WHAT ARE YOU DOING? HEY Put a sticker on it! HAHA- YHEAH. Hey boss get the- the the angle grinder. Alright I Alright, it's ready, do it, do it, do it. Nice It's part of our cup holder man [And the Machinist is mute, but visibly furious.] Machinist: NVM. THIS PROBLEM. It's like ACCIDENTALLY telling and not ask questions. Or they a lamborghini? And the designer is like Machinist:: GO BACK TO THE DRAWING BOARD. This is one of the budget issues they face. So part in the assembly, then every contractor Expand these problems to every SUB Dasdjfk Dude. just stop it. Get some help. These old MFers have already been through BUT the baby boomers are retiring soon. So they gave me a bullet list. Maximize tolerance where applicable. Alright so I'm vibing this one, if precisely cut. Then they can cut it to be the bleeding edge of accuracy then He can cut it, but tighter tolerances forces Standard metric or Standard imperial charts So when I was interviewing the chart" over and over. And I was So then he pulled up "the chart" A other bit that every machine So if a designer calls out for a threaded wall. YA DARN RIGHT this machinist is gonna But if the designer calls out for a then the machinist has to order a new bit. New OMGGGGg. That costs time AND money. More Be more realistic about designs So this one- thought it was hilarious. They for some clarification on this bullet pin. My man and he said "sometimes I get parts with like .3mm So here you are tryna machine down a part with Meanwhile the designer is like, Yep, And the machinist is BEATING HIS TIME it's ripped apart due Use Standard Radius where applicable. So this one comes back to the whole shit- Engineer lists an arbitrary radius, waits a week, throws it away, you know the drill. AAYYYYEEE. So-so lets say you cut some metal. That So this one comes back to the whole chart thing. angle right there? Can actually hurt someone. guess what? They have a bit for that too, -- eh? Part4 If this part isn't going to then be a bit more willing This is aerospace slang. Jet engine. Precision needed. Gyroscope mount. Precision needed. Engine block. Precision needed. A Machinist will machine anything as precisely that guy more tolerance. The surface can matter. We're gonna angle grind it, bro, just Last Bullet point number 5: Have a Machinist or So this one can reduce the operating cost. Let's say the engineer prints out and the shop is like yo-- we can't make this to go here. Then it has to make another You're both now losing money. He has to spend out there is fuckin' trying it anyway for the Solution? Hire him. Imposter among us. Remember thumbs down? This is the ideal team composition. swear, or dirty or soaked in coolant. early, He'll be like yo... You can't machine that. Try designing it like this, we won't reject it. Hey so this design has a large slim protrusion-- buy a large block, then spend days machining it and ream a hole, then -pop-! It's cheaper, Oh this is a cup holder right? Does it need a Should be fine. Right? Right? Thumbs [Montage of printing the [Machinist sippin' on some coke]: [Machinist puts the coke in the cupholder] [Then they give each other the Thank you for the donations everyone, I stole