So far this century we have seen a stunning it down to levels not seen in well over a The growth of China alone has contributed in poverty. Close to eight hundred million people have over the last forty years because of the major took power in 1978. During this period, China tried a number of not just China but the rest of the world. China was a very poor country in 1949 when The country had emerged from four years of occupation. The economy mostly revolved around subsistence Under Mao s leadership, landlords and wealthier to poorer peasants. Mao s Great Leap Forward, from 1958 to 1962, the country. Millions of people died of starvation in China from 15 to 55 million deaths, making the Great second-largest famine in human history. Policies around how farming was organized, down of farm tools to increase steel production Sparrows were suspected of eating too much in the number of insects which decreased rice The Cultural Revolution, which Mao launched elements throughout society that he thought vision. Schools and universities were shut, historic being a rightist was humiliated, imprisoned The Gang of Four became influential in 1972, Mao's death in 1976. When Mao died, China was an economically ravaged per capita GDP of only $175 dollars. Up until 1966 China had a conventional soviet In 1966 with the cultural revolution the country with the outside world and excluding outside The Chinese had fallen out with the Soviets they had was no longer dealing with them. Deng Xiaoping had been a major military figure Mao s right-hand man. He had, however, come under suspicion in the for a form of limited capitalism to reduce He had given a speech in 1962 saying the ownership increase production. Mao never forgave him for having abandoned exile for five years. Mao s chosen successor when he died was Hua The Gang of Four who were led by Mao s widow Revolution and were hard line communists. They pushed unsuccessfully to lead the party arrested and imprisoned for life. Hua had vowed to &quot;uphold whatever policy decisions whatever instructions Chairman Mao gave.&quot; These were known as the two whatever s and for - in reality Hua advanced economic policies These included establishing economic and research economy and supporting the four modernizations. Mao s passing, as you can imagine gave the as new leaders get to make changes in such can blame the old guard at least for a while. At time of Mao death power and transportation to underutilization of as much as 30% of the room for improvement for the new leadership. In 1976, China was at the start of its Golden to intellectual openness. In 1977 industrial and agricultural production 16%. The country was in the first stages of its in the world to what is the second largest The World Bank describes China s growth as economy in history, Before we look at how this happened let me I have had the same email address for quite From time to time when it gets too much, I button on the worst offenders. Unfortunately, that doesn t seem to do much there is a huge industry of data brokers who other personal information about you to whoever You have the legal right to protect your privacy information they store on you, but unfortunately make it incredibly tedious to get off their It could take forever to get this done manually. Incogni is a service that will reach out to request your personal data be deleted, and With a yearly subscription Incogni constantly add your data to their lists. Sign up for Incogni by going to Incogni.com The first 100 people to use the code BOYLE [End of Sponsored Content] one of the most dramatic turnarounds in modern He went from being an out of favor - sidelined which is quite amazing. Mao s chosen successor Hua had done what Deng which was to get rid of the most radical left-wing gang of four. After that had been done, Deng began to use out of office. The army was one of Deng s strongest points His military history as a great commander with the senior leadership of the armed forces The CCP can be thought of as a network more a huge members, there were not many like Deng strong links with the Soviet Union, and the He was connected to and admired by the most as a man who could get things done. While Hua had been given the leadership role he was surrounded by people with greater loyalty He made the wise decision to step back not worked out for him. Deng didn t have him arrested, killed or exiled; party. Up until 2002 he was still healthy and attending a gentle retirement and passed away in 2008 Deng s treatment of Hua showed that while was not ruthless with the victims of his power Deng Xiaoping was at the age of 74 now the Obviously in the United States 74 would be role like that but in a lot of the rest of Deng was by no means ready to retire. Deng Xiaoping was born in the Sichuan province His family was not wealthy, but they were in their village. The year he was born, the Chinese imperial was the first generation to study modern subjects. Deng travelled to France at the age of 16 Unfortunately for him, the company sponsoring turned into simply a work program. He found himself working at a Renault car plant where he was shocked by the conditions He joined the Chinese Communist youth league study at the University of The Toilers of name for a University to have met Mao in Wuhan, he rose in the ranks of fought in the Chinese civil war. The Long March was a military retreat by the forces during the Chinese Civil War in 1934 While costly, the Long March gave the CCP to recuperate and rebuild in the north. The Long March solidified Mao's status as did not officially become party chairman until Other survivors of the march like Deng went Deng rose alongside Mao, but fell out of favor of limited capitalism to reduce the effects forward. Mao feared that the reformist economic policies of capitalism and end the Chinese Revolution. For this and other reasons, Mao launched the Deng was forced to retire from all of his During the Cultural Revolution, Deng and his his eldest son who was tortured and jumped four-story building, becoming a paraplegic. In 1969 Deng Xiaoping was sent into exile line worker for five years. Following Mao s death, Premier Hua Guofeng within the party. In the era of Deng Xiaoping s leadership as global economic power reformers often used the stones to describe their method for advancement. It implied that the country would move forward defined. One of the biggest differences between Deng of expertise and reach out to experts. Deng who had spent time in France and the experts either. As soon as Deng took power, he began normalizing the world, no longer seeing them as adversaries. He introduced a policy that year called Reform s Republic on a new course. Deng was named Time s man of the year in 1978. Deng travelled to Japan in 1978 his first I guess He toured factories and markets in if a country followed objective economic laws. Japan would go on to be an important source in the coming decades. In 1979 the United States and China announced Deng set out right away to tour the United and Boeing to better understand how modern He visited universities and beamed at the his visit to Texas. In November 1979 Deng declared that it was that would allow wealth and power to flow He went on to say The gang of Four said that rich under capitalism this is absurd He had boiled down to shared poverty. China who had been a founding member of The invited the Institution back into the country s economy. China received its first loan for higher education The Ford Foundation began working with Chinese the fields of economics, law and international Deng s goal to be clear was economic liberalism in the CCP and its authority. Throughout his life he imposed strict limits Deng initiated an anti-crime campaign in 1984 and it is estimated that 24 thousand people According to those close to him, the only other than that he appeared entirely emotionless Deng determined that economic expertise would that could successfully incorporate market poverty. He began sending delegates of economists and as they could about how successful economies In the past China had only looked to the Soviet Soviet Style Communism was failing wherever like Hungary and Yugoslavia who appeared to They invited the Polish economist W?odzimierz Functioning of the Socialist Economy argued were a necessity on the road to socialism. They invited the Czech economist Ota Sik who planning. They invited Janos Kornai a Hungarian economist command economies of Eastern European communist They invited the American economist James intervention to stabilize output and avoid The Chinese at this time took an extremely They looked at America and Britain which were already knew quite a bit about and they could to them was the eastern European reformist were trying to understand and balance. In 1980 the Chinese invited the American Nobel was probably the most famous economist in Market Fundamentalism to give a series of Friedman delivered four lectures on topics world in the 1980s. His audiences of officials and scholars listened only in capitalist societies. Inflation was neither innately capitalist Instead, he said, government itself was the only by free private markets. Friedman s speech proved to be too much for attended. To the Chinese economists in the audience, s less liberal leaders, they were menacingly The next day a group of Chinese economists a long lecture on the triumphs of the Chinese Although Chinese economists disagreed with should be listened to, they did agree that technical sophistication of Chinese economists. They reached out to top US universities for One of the major economic conferences of the venue was chosen so that none of the delegates by other work commitments. They were meant to make the most of the opportunity world. With Deng Xiaoping in power, the decision be allowed to have greater autonomy which Market forces were unleashed in China, and Deng Xiaoping began opening special economic He said our guiding ideology is not to restrain, The gradual introduction of free-market capitalism China brought about rapid development. This transition to what Deng described as easy, there was a strong conservative element was occurring. Deng became a master at twisting the meaning be deviating too far from the original revolutionary One of Mao s most famous sayings was that he meant that the Chinese should abandon books was about ideology rather than expertise. Deng twisted the meaning of that phrase saying pragmatic and not only read communist texts, economics, and books from all over the world. The huge growth that was occurring in China A problem that socialists like to describe The CCP were concerned about this for a number cause political instability. One of the main criticism s that the Austrian economic planning would never be feasible to successfully calculate, prices, output This meant that there would always be shortages They argued that free markets were the solution economies. Hayek argued that the man on the spot was to economic changes than a government bureaucrat. Socialist economists began to argue in the power to make these calculations that would Ota Sika a prominent Czech economist, struck s. He asserted that the goal of price reform but on the way it is necessary to move incrementally. He emphasized that this incremental adjustment supply as it currently did in China. He suggested that the Chinese government make to conduct large-scale input-output analysis both labor and capital. The Chinese decided to implement this program data from thousands of products, factories, This approach did not work and in the mid fact that the government was spending well on subsidies to keep daily necessities affordable. In 1985 the prices of raw materials skyrocketed Hua Sheng a young Chinese economist came up market prices known as the dual track price Under this system, enterprises would still they produced to meet the quotas would still But beyond those quotas, enterprises could and sell them at whatever price consumers With the dual??track system: the old system would very quickly became only a small part You could think of the old planned economy didn t suddenly stop watering it, he just The dual track system did incentivize factory market prices but allowed those in power to to large-scale official profiteering and corruption. Under the policy growth skyrocketed, but it prices remained a thorn in the side of China In the summer of 1988, Deng Xiaoping finally liberalization of the price system. A crisis immediately followed. A fear of inflation seized the country, there other nonperishable supplies. A survey of 32 cities revealed that prices alone. It was decided at the highest levels of government In 1988 Milton and Rose Friedman considered back to China. Friedman spoke at a conference organized by state authority over the economy found fewer At the suggestion to his Chinese hosts Friedman Zhao Ziyang, a steadfast reformer within the In it he argued that the Chinese economy was acceptance of free market principles was necessary control prices, and end inflation by tightening move ahead with establishing true free private Beware of getting stuck halfway through the In an in-person meeting with Zhao, Friedman top down and that markets are organized from are incompatible with each other. Friedman left the meeting optimistic about In a December 1988 interview with Forbes, were imminent. In the Chinese press, Friedmans visit was The People s Daily wrote glowingly about the However, events far beyond the confines of of Chinese reformers far off course. After collapsing from a heart attack at a secretary of the CCP died. It was a long-standing tradition in China could trigger demonstrations. In this case students around China used the against the continuing role of the CCP in On the 4th of May, students held up signs In Spring 1989 Tienanmen square was the scene TV cameras from news stations around the world reforming Soviet leader Mikael Gorbachev and to the CCP. There are many explanations behind what led square whole books have been written on the the desire for greater political openness, the way inflation was affecting the students There were demonstrations in other cities the leadership managed to calm things down At the height of the protests it is estimated in the square. By June 1989, the demonstrations in Tiananmen they showed no signs of moving. On June 2, the CCP's Politburo Standing Committee clear the square, leading to clashes between Deng Xiaoping came down on the side of the Estimates of the death toll vary from several more wounded. The vast majority of those killed were civilians, The surprising thing after the Tiananmen square The country did not plunge into civil war It didn t close itself off to the outside For the next three years politics did go into The liberal trends that had fueled the protests liberalism, but in 1992, Deng, the man who old went on what was knows as his Southern By visiting Shenzhen the boomtown on the border politics of reform were not going to be abandoned. In 1993, the Chinese constitution was amended on the basis of socialist public ownership. To The state practices socialist market economy. Dengs reforms were now enshrined in the country In the months and years after this change, that Deng Xiaoping had helped bring to power Deng Xiaoping died in February 1997 following In a speech marking the 40th anniversary of Xi Jinping made it clear that he would continue society even as he lavished praise on Deng opening. One of the defining themes of Xi Jinping s self-sufficiency looking inward like Mao did. Xi has cracked down on Chinese companies and of some of the more successful firms. In other areas of domestic politics, Xi continues to the need to maintain the CCP s absolute For all his reforms, Deng was always at heart needed the CCP to provide leadership and prevent Xi has inherited this strong sense of Leninism, China needs the party to uphold its sovereignty Today China is the worlds second largest economy Its share of the global economy has gone from In the end, the economy will likely be the Chinas current political system will endure. If you found today's video interesting, you should next. Don t forget to check out our sponsor Incogni Have a great week and talk to you again soon,