- I'm Indian. - I'm Indian. - I'm Indian. - I'm Indian. - I'm Indian. - I'm Indian. - And I'm Korean. (dramatic music) I'm Charlie and I'm a content creator. I make contents on Instagram So basically when I was one-year-old, I went to India with my Growing up there as a Korean, (speaking Hindi) I didn't like the attention, but later on I started and looks like I'm here that's why. - My name is Avi. (speaking Hindi) I was born here in California, but my parents are from New Delhi, India, specifically from Karol - Hi, my name is Pragya. (speaking Hindi) I'm from Mumbai, originally up - Hi, my name is Ritvik. (speaking Hindi) I grew up in Pune, and then moved to the - My name is Ruchi. (speaking Marathi) I was born in Thane, and - Hi, my name is Vinit. Namaste. (speaking Hindi) I was born and raised in Bihar, Patna. - My name is Sunita. (speaking Telugu) I born in Hyderabad, Telangana. I came here as a teenager. - Hi, my name is Vritti. (speaking Hindi) I was born in Chennai. I moved to the US when I was two. Moved back to India when I was six and then moved back to - Any one of you can tell and how do you make that curry? - I wanted to jump in and say what curry? Like Indians don't say curry, right? - So I, personally, don't make curry. Usually growing up in my mom is the one who makes all the food. But, you know, I do like goat ki curry. Sometimes I even, like in the morning I or, you know, Paneer Ki Paranthi. - But then other people were answering. So I felt like if I jump in now, people would be suspicious about me. I also don't cook that well, - I grew up in Maharashtra but my favorite curry would be fish curry, especially Goan fish curry. - I'm also vegetarian and but I really like Rasam. - Are you guys' parents did Because for me, my parents, they literally just met for five minutes, and the next day (speaking Hindi) Like, you know, they already know (speaking Hindi) That they're gonna get married. - My Nanaji and Dadaji knew and they were like, hey, I have let's introduce them. Baam, they've been - They had a love But my mom was in Satara so they had like a long for four and a half years. - Wow. - By the way, Vinit your - My accent? - What about my accent? - It seems like you're - This is just my accent. - I think Vinit was a big red flag. - When Ritvik pointed it out, it kind of like affirmed my suspicion. I was like, oh, I'm starting to feel a little - I was shocked. Because I grew up in But when I came to the when I was 20-year-old, I So now I have American accent as well. - What languages do you all speak? I speak English, Hindi, because I was brought up in but when I try to speak Marathi, my friends tell me that so I then try not to speak Marathi. - I speak English, Hindi, and Punjabi. - I can speak English, Hindi, Marathi. - I can speak English, Marathi and Hindi. Though my Hindi sucks, so. (speaking Marathi) - I speak Hindi and English. I can understand little bit of Bhojpuri because I grew up in Patna. - I can speak English, Hindi, and then I understand a - I speak Telugu, English, - I think all of us speak Hindi. We've all, even if it's just a little bit. Do you want to say something (speaking Hindi) - This is Sunita. Self-taught Indian classical dancer and also devotional singer. And former chemist. (speaking Hindi) - She didn't speak Hindi and I thought other people were a little suspicious about her. (speaking Hindi) - How was your school day's - I did my primary in Thane, Maharashtra. And then I was sent to a Those boarding school days were amazing. In Panchgani, it was like &quot;Taare - Wow. - I did most of my It was kind of hard to adjust at first just 'cause I did do like in the US, but I look back and like it was honestly even though the teachers - That's a red flag, I had the opposite. Mine was not wholesome at all. - Why is that? - If I didn't answer a question right, they would throw like a chalk at you or like they'll like come up I had to wear your uniform and- - That's kind of true. We used to have uniform, and question is wrong, - And then &quot;Jana Gana Mana.&quot; - Oh yeah, yeah. - Do you guys all know National Anthem? - Yeah. Yeah? - Do you know Vinit? I want to ask you. - Bro, I grew up in India - Vinit, I trust you. - [Charlie] Yes, yes. - Yes, somehow I trust- - Somehow, I- I don't know why you guys are doubting me. - Yeah, no. You have my support. I promise you, I don't doubt you. And especially when you said and I could sense that. Yeah, you're good. - It seems like everybody's Indian. - Yeah. (upbeat music) - [Producer] There was a tie. And the tie is between Ritvik and Sunita. - I have a American accent 'cause I had to get when I came here 'cause I still have an Indian passport and I just got my green card, so I can be the most Indian ever, but, I am a filmmaker, I'm but I promise you I'm Indian. (speaking Marathi) - I'm pakka Telugu. My And I love singing in Telugu. (singing in Telugu) - I need to get Ritvik out because he was getting - Oh my god guys, come on. Wait minute I can sing, man. Dil chahta hai Honestly, I was so off by the group 'cause they had typecasted me. A lot of my life I've been Hence, even today, like but I didn't sound Indian. It's sort of this identity that - Can I ask you guys what is the latest Indian movie you guys? - I don't watch a lot of Bollywood films so that was one area that I was weak. - I don't watch a lot of movies generally, but I recently watched &quot;Rocky My most favorite recent movie that I'd watched was &quot;Gangubai.&quot; I think Alia Bhatt did - I saw this movie on and I loved it. - I saw &quot;Animal&quot; with Ranbeer Kapoor. - He is our Telugu director, I know, yeah. - I don't watch a lot of movies as well. So I'll just talk about I like Aamir Khan a lot. I - What has been the funniest pronunciation of your name so far? - My name is not Vinit, so I started thinking what - This one time in class, one of my professors called me pregnant, so, that was really fun. - I was called Rookie, it's not good, especially in an interview if they call you rookie. So it's not good for your - I don't think I had that bad experience. Vinit is pretty easy. - People who aren't Indian, I usually tell them my name is Vritti just because it's easier I think one time in class, one of my teachers called me like Variety or like one of my old friends but then that like kind of like I, yeah, I don't know. - My name, they usually say - My full name is Avneet, so but that's why I just go There was somebody who said that they didn't really - That was me. - And I think Vinit also said the same. - Yes. She said she doesn't watch - No, I said I watched &quot;Darlings.&quot; - I never even heard of that movie. - [Ruchi] That's a good - Is that like original - It's got Alia Bhatt and Shefali Shah. - Ruchi, I trust you. - I trust you too, Pragya. - I don't trust Vinit though. - Me neither. - You said, which Aamir - He said &quot;Taare Zameen Par.&quot; - Yeah. - But I mentioned &quot;Taare which other movie did you like? - I like Aamir Khan's &quot;Lagaan&quot; as well. - Oh, yeah. - I like &quot;3 Idiot&quot; as well. - I don't know why you are doubting me. - I don't know. Ritvik put it in my head. - I'm still sus of Sunita right now, I don't know what it is, yeah. - You want me to sing any other song? - I feel like you could because you would've wanted - I think also 'cause last round you asked like what our favorite curry is and I feel like that's like non-Indian thing to ask. - Oh god, you'll be regretting. (upbeat music) Oh gosh, I've been here for decades. I was really surprised, I'm not enough Indian to be Indian. - [Producer] Raise your hand if you think that the and you would like to - Who is known as the - Emraan Hashmi. - Who didn't knew? - I didn't know that. - But not everybody would - But I believe if someone is from India, they would know about this, right? Because he was quite controversial. What visas are the ones who are from India who've immigrated to the US on - Yeah, F1. - Vinit, what about you? - Which university did you go to? - I went to University of Iowa. - Okay. I was born in America actually. So I have American citizenship as well. So I didn't know about visas. - Vinit didn't say He just, I said I have an F1 visa, and he just said, yeah, same. It felt as if he didn't - Which school did you go to in Patna? 'Cause I have quite a - I actually moved schools a lot. - Why is that? - I don't, I'll have to ask my parents. I went to St. Karen's from And then from class four, - Is there an army school in Patna? - Yes. Don Bosco, I think, was nearby. - Okay, I trust you now. - I'm still suspicious of Vinit, honestly. - What's the reasoning here? - [Ruchi] Yeah. - I feel like you're just piggybacking off of like other people's answers and I feel like you've been kind of quiet. - I'm actually suspicious about you. - Why? - Your accent and- - Did you celebrate Holi? - Do you know what people say - Holi hai? - I don't, no. I don't know - Does everybody else? (speaking Hindi) Yeah, yeah. - [Vritti] Oh. - I'm confused. (dramatic music) - Coming into this, I didn't really think was gonna be my accent. Judging people based off their voice or based off what they look like isn't really an accurate judgment. - Love comes in all languages. (speaking Hindi) (speaking Korean) - [Producer] Raise your hand if you think that the Since it's not the majority, - Vinit, I swear to god I'm trusting your Don Bosco - [Producer] If the lights turn red, that means that the and the mole wins. If the light turn green, that means that you successfully Three. - Oh god, my anxiety. - [Producer] Two, one. And the lights are red. (Pragya gasps) - I told, guys. - Vinit, I swear. - [Producer] Three, two, one. - Bro, I knew it. - Bro. - [Sunita] Oh my gosh. - I knew it. - Guys. - I sused out the accent - What? - That's Vinit right there. - Oh my god. - My high school bully would say that. - Your high school? - Yeah like hello, hello. - Bro, this is my accent. My real name is Yee Chan but I grew up in India. I had to change my accent to this, the accent that I'm speaking right now, but I had the one before. - I wasn't expecting the mole who's lived in India for 20 years, so that was a pleasant surprise. - He was too good, like, yeah. Nobody can say he's not Indian. - Learning from his experience, I do think he's more Indian than a lot of people - Did you ever have any - Yeah, at first I thought So I picked South Korean because I wanted to be like confident in me saying that I'm Korean. But later, I realized that I can have multiple identities. I can say like when I'm in 'Cause I mean like in my contents, people say you're more Indian (speaking Hindi) and stuff like that. Now I say like, I'm global citizen. - He's taken the best I think it's beautiful. - I really appreciate the Jugaad culture. Jugaad is like, you'll figure it out. So people commonly say, (speaking Hindi) like it'll all be okay, you'll - You're going to throw - Yeah, oh lord. (contestants cheering) - Yay. - Good job. - Thank you. - Yeah. (Charlie cheering) (speaking Hindi) - Yes. Yeah, I won. You guys saw it? I won.