Welcome to my channel. Today I will show you how to grow orchids from scratch, how to grow them , how to get baby or small orchids. Garlic is a very useful vegetable used in orchid care. One clove of garlic is enough for this . I chop a clove of garlic together with its peels. Because there are vitamins in their shells, as in garlic. And I put them in a 300 ml glass bottle. I will add as much water as possible. and then I will leave this mixture for 30 minutes. While the mix is resting, what we need to do now is to prune the orchid branch. we will use the pruned branch to regenerate the keiki. What you need to be careful here is that we do not take the side branches in this way, because they are not very strong and do not produce new keiki. so Keiki means baby orchid, new orchid. For this, we will cut the main branch, not the side branch. that is, we will cut from a branch that extends from the bottom. This branch needs to be alive and healthy. As you can see, it is an active and healthy branch and I cut it from the bottom. When cutting, try to cut without crushing too much. As you can see , there are currently green nodes on this branch. There is a sprout under each green node. Keiki, baby Orchid, or flower branch can emerge from these shoots. As you can see, I will leave these green knuckles and cut the dried knuckles from the empty space, that is, from the place where the flowers are shed. and I cut a little over at once. Yes, I cut it. Now I want to leave this branch aside and show you the other orchid. Look, the knuckles are more prominent in this orchid. That is, the knuckles are dry. you will get faster results if you cut the branches that are starting to shoot. But as you can see here the knuckle is green and not quite a bulge yet. but as you can see in the black one on the right, there is a small ridge. So now the sprout is activated. If you want to get a quick result, I recommend you to choose such branches. I'm cutting from the bottom again. As I said, the orchid's keiki removal depends entirely on the active, healthy branch and the developed knuckle . As you can see, the other node also has a small bulge in the same way. now i will disinfect these two branches. we will use garlic water especially when disinfecting . Because garlic water will help disinfect these branches thanks to its antioxidant feature. and we cut the branches in such a way that there are 3 knots on them. This way you will get better results. Because if we just cut and leave a knuckle, the branch can rot. it can dry out. but when you leave 3 points, this system will work faster . Yes, I will immediately put the branches I cut into my garlic water. Yes, we keep it in this Garlic water for 30 minutes. After waiting for 30 minutes, the Orchid branches are now disinfected. If there is a disease or any infestation, it has been thoroughly disinfected thanks to the garlic water. And now we are drying it thoroughly with a cotton ball. After drying, we especially need to check the tip of the branches. If the ends are dry like this, only the underside should be green. Because we will only use the bottom part for immersion. But if the top is green, you need to light a candle and cover that green part with a candle. because this part may lose water over time and the branch may dry out. To prevent this, I dripped candle drops after drying it thoroughly in this way. their ends were closed in this way. what we need now is a plastic bottle . I have thoroughly washed this bottle now. I cleaned it and look inside, as you can see, I put my green branch directly into it. and I'm going to put some water on it. In this system, our orchid will always stay in this water. See the water level is currently up to 2cm. But I'll put a little more. Because the water came a little. After I put a little more, I'll show you. Look, the water level is exactly 4 fingers high. I put water . The branch will stay in this water all the time. And with the help of this water with time, the knuckles will soften and it will help to remove the keiki again. I put the other branch on it. it doesn't matter. You can also put two different bottles if you want . but since it's wide, I put both. I'm closing the lid . We are definitely not opening the lid again. We will wait until we get results. I'm showing you another orchid that I tried with the same method. look months over this passed. and during this time I have never opened the cover of this orchid. I have never opened the cap of the bottle. And as you can see, he took out a small keiki. Because there is a lot of moisture in it. Look, you know the droplets inside the bottle. There is intense humidity. Thanks to the intense humidity, the shoots in the knuckles grew rapidly. Look, it burst and as you can see, it's getting moss underneath. This is another orchid. I tried it at the same time. I wanted to show this result as well. In this case, it is not keiki, but a flower branch. In other words, there is a possibility that a keiki or flower branch may emerge from the orchid's knuckles . It may not be 100% keiki, but it gives 100% results. Friends Look, I just opened this branch for the first time. And I want to show you up close. As you can see, he created keiki. and there is moss on the bottom. look, as you can see closely, it now has two leaves. First it had one leaf. Now it has removed two leaves. And keiki is slowly growing in this system. In this plastic bottle, the orchid sprouts more easily because its branch is long. Look, there's a swell here too. he'll probably make another keiki from here, too. I immediately show the part I put in the water. There's also a swell here. This can probably produce a keiki again. Since it has been in the water for a long time, it has formed a layer as you can see in this way. It's for self-protection. and there is absolutely no rot in the branch. The wave is alive. and continues to show its improvement. It takes exactly 3 months for the branch to produce keiki in this way . so you have to be patient. don't expect immediate results, look again, another orchid is producing this orchid again. Here, after your orchids like this grow in it, cut the cover part. because otherwise it would be hard to get it out. I cut it and changed the water in it a few times. Because now we see that this orchid is growing rapidly. leaves leaves . roots are growing .and that is why we need to more closely monitor the water change and especially the growth phase of this orchid. It takes at least 7-8 months for a branch to be cut in this way. That is, it is not an event that will happen immediately. You definitely need to be patient. And definitely don't cut the branch too small. Now I will plant this orchid immediately . Yes, I immediately put a clay ball into an orchid pot. I also put moss on it. And I moisten it with some water. clay ball again. By the way, if you have watched my video so far and if you liked it, if you do not subscribe to my channel by pressing the like button immediately, I would be very happy if you subscribe to support me . Yes, look, we put a clay ball and a moss in order and I put water on it last. Because the clay ball was completely dry. I soak it in this water for 5 minutes. After 5 minutes, I plant the keiki of my orchid. There is a branch when planting. Look, I cut the branch short. And make sure that the roots are on the moss . If a cake grows at least 3-5 roots in this way and the length of each root is 4-5 cm, you can plant it in this way. It definitely needs to be moist. and you need to put it on a window edge with plenty of light . And of course, you can give vitamins from time to time. With time, it will grow quickly and become a new orchid. I hope this video has been useful for you. If you have watched my video so far and you like it, press the like button and subscribe to my channel. If you are not, you can subscribe to support me. You can make lots of comments and ask questions in the comments section. goodbye. stay healthy.