"It's important as a journalist to be able to and judge people fairly, and that is what I Brit Hume has always been dedicated the cornerstone of journalism; truth. facts and presents them how he Truth is also a key part of Brit's Christian That's in part because it helped him survive one through something that no one should ever have Keep watching as Brit Hume opens up Brit's Career 1943. He graduated from the University of He didn't immediately have a drive He stumbled into it because he needed a job. 0:11-1:55) a journalist, um, no idea what I wanted to do, and was, I was out of college. I was married uh by the fall of that year we had a child on the way and to do. I majored in English, which turned out to ultimately chose, so I tried to get a job teaching employment agency in, in Hartford Connecticut was from up there and they had room, and we were job as a cub reporter on the old Harford times but when I got into that Newsroom that first day this clattering place with this irreverent and it was in those days there were typewriters being pounded on and you had voice yelling copy out Across The Newsroom to the composing room which was It was the lively atmosphere of the Hartford the profession. He thought it was the coolest from that first day, and I've never really been Brit then moved on to the United Press Sun. He worked for columnist Jack Anderson from Rebellion and Murder in the United His story about the International Telephone and in exchange for contributions to the 1972 national attention. It was enough to have He became the editor of MORE Magazine in 1973 and Brit later got a job at ABC News in 1973. He became a correspondent in 1976 and covered 11 years. He reported on Walter Mondale's campaign. He was even the chief White Brit left ABC for the Fox News Network Brit Hume in January 1998. The show gained Lewinsky scandal and the 2000 election. It p.m. Eastern slot for several years. that show in July 2008 and announced Bret final episode on December 23, 2008, saying, 1:30-1:58) but I hope you will, as Brett Barre and Megan starting from 6:00 on, and starting tomorrow I'm political analyst. I'm deeply grateful to all of and expressly also to the staff of this Brit became the anchor of On the Record on Greta Van Susteren, abruptly left. episodes. He also joined other anchors to * Chris Wallace * Dana Perino * Martha MacCallum him a respected journalist. He ended up giving Academy Award nomination in 1979 for The Killing coverage of the Gulf War. He was also named the Review for his coverage of the White House. Brit has faced the same struggle that every put under scrutiny. He's said a few things on He spoke out against Tiger Woods' infidelity hoped the golfer would find his way to Jesus. abortion. He gave a very graphic depiction of Some estimates are that as many as 55 million court acted in that time. Science has given of a baby a fetus is. At 20 weeks, we now know a mother's voice their toenails are growing by a stethoscope the moral case for allowing "If science is able to determine that a fetus feels pain from the nearly at the beginning support for abortion and abortion rights and that the political atmosphere around this These statements make more sense today. It's no lost someone close to him. It's also no the faith that helped him get through it. on the rise of this major commentator. Keep the tragic death of his son Brit got a life-changing call on a Monday news that his son Alexander Britton Sandy was a reporter for The Hill in Washington, impaired the previous night. He returned home and Brit said, "I was staggered by his loss. It's is never going to be back. There's a sense of world. It's as if nighttime descends on your Brit got an outpouring of sympathy when he funeral. He remembers that, despite his address full of letters of condolences and prayers. over some of them. I smiled at some of them. I (https://www.billygraham.ca/stories/brit-humes-journey-of-faith/) son's memory every year. They established Excellence in Political Journalism. Brit's thoughts turned to God after his son's with him in a way he hadn't felt before. every morning at St. Albans and went to church He continued to go to church as an adult. he would have told people he was a he realized he was only a Christian in name. God with him. He felt the Lord was the only pain. He got baptized and confirmed to the Christ in a way that was very meaningful to him. faith on camera, but he has also found ways to He helped fellow broadcaster Fred Barnes come Jesus Rediscovered. Fred then introduced Jerry Leachman. They formed a journalist's His Wife's Struggles at ABC News. They were married in 1993 before She had her own demons to overcome beyond the parents and began drinking at age 14. woke up too sick to go to work and was afraid but she was overcome with emotion She sensed that His answer her new purpose in life. She surrendered She also joined with Brit to deepen her the Bible. It inspired her to start her He often feels like he gets "lapped" by but it doesn't matter. They both work together to next tragic event in their life happens. commentator on ABC? Let us