Since the dawn of agriculture, few things the sky when they want none or their absence But things change when you're doing your Last time in the series we discussed power vast amounts of renewable and cheap energy A point we made at the time was that electricity Of course it's not what people run on, and run on food, and civilization remains dependent That is our topic today of course, food and on other planets or in space. Since we'll be talking about food for the grab a snack and a drink before continuing. In the grand scheme of survival, getting dinner shortly thereafter by not becoming something The vast supermajority of cells in your body Indeed most are actually bacteria unrelated and most of the remainder are red blood cells oxygen and nutrients to your other cells. Only a tiny fraction of your cells are actually thinking that makes you, you. Civilization is a lot like that too. Only a fairly small fraction of the land we cultivated farmland, highways, factories, Needless to say, any portions of that we can entirely, and free up space for stuff down projects, or reforestation and native ecology, So that will be our other focus later today, food down to Earth to feed folks living in It should be noted before we jump into discussing extra considerations. First, we are only interested in farming today, at more in a couple weeks in Exporting Earth, a given crop as growing by itself, it's dominant species of a fairly simplified polyculture. Everything evolved to a certain amount of pollination and soil aeration, and so any these too or you'd end up with inferior The other side of that though is that this for us to discuss genetic engineering or cybernetics I want to mostly bypass that today, but we people to run on electricity, outright manufacturing or highly engineered organisms that are vastly to do it in peculiar environments. Those are topics for another time though. Finally, while plants as food will be our isn't just growing corn, its growing livestock We often skip meat when discussing food in because it isn't too efficient. That's a good place to begin, because efficiency quite variable. One might say an efficient farm is the one might say it's the one that produces the the most dollars of revenue and profit, and Each of these is entirely valid, and will Incidentally, since we normally stick to mostly per hectare. Even land itself is a pretty iffy term, which yields from historical sources. We've standardized a lot of these as we've the Hide, one of the better known old land of land a single family could survive on and Which is appropriate since "Hide" was That varied a lot by local soil fertility, In modern terms it's far less, a Hide would might work thousands of acres. You can often get yields vastly higher, in manpower. A typical heated greenhouse with a tailored of food, typically boosting yields by a factor supplemental lighting makes this even better. This isn't really economical yet, but it that don't keep well and already need a As automation improves we'll see more of most of the construction of greenhouses and hit a tipping point where it got cheaper than It's one of the reasons I and some others more people, we could easily support a vastly land by going this pathway, saves a lot of So long as one person can produce the food on technology. Nowadays we only use a couple of percent of 20 billion people working to make food for workforce for other things. You wouldn't though, agricultural automation crops, but we're getting there. The same issue applies to vertical farming, devoted to growing plants is flat out absurd As we get better at construction that will That manpower issue is a big one for space You send a team of six people to Mars to explore ship or the planet to supplement their supplies well or compactly - but that means one or of their time to growing food, not exploring Hydroponics also adds mass to the mission, you need more equipment and space for growing At a current cost of thousands of dollars well, that adds up to a lot of mass when you Another problem, though more with quality by what you can easily pack with you or grow Food in space generally tastes awful, and Your taste buds and smell get all messed up actually pressurize planes to be closer to On spaceships or Martian bases we'd likely This is not a big deal for farming, just a Dietary preferences will probably vary off culinary specialists in equally unexpected However, in the long term it just makes sense well start looking at the advantages and disadvantages. The two big advantages are obvious, it cuts can grow your food near at hand, and the very you have a very artificial and controlled You don't have to worry much about disease, You can alter temperature and humidity and to create them all from scratch in the first The disadvantages though are that you have place, and this includes a lot of factors I obviously can't just toss some seeds onto on the ISS and expect them to grow. We should start with two things we don't and gravity. Light itself isn't in short supply anywhere and duration is another matter. The only place in the solar system with anything that tends to be target number one for colonization, Coincidentally Mars' has a day just a little your next closest match would be Saturn's that's about it for anything that is vaguely Most moons are tidally locked to their planet, and complete one day-night cycle, the ones and have very little gravity even compared Asteroids, on the other hand, typically have the majority rotating several times a day. Plants don't need much gravity, and many mostly use it as a way of orienting themselves How they handle changing day lengths is a The good news is Mars at least is just fine Stick a pressurized dome up on Mars and you are decent the gravity will be just fine for guesswork for now. It's possible many animals would be fine could imagine in lower gravity chickens might irritating for chicken farmers, but it is might have bad effects on things, especially The light level is fine too, like Earth it again as far from the Sun as we are and gets its thin atmosphere means more light gets a dome would need to screen out. Ignoring the atmospheric effect for the moment, tropic band near the equator gets lighting Canada or Scandinavia. That's a big deal for temperature but not As mentioned in the episode on Colonizing light is much weaker, most plants would get Light concentration, in the visible ranges Lux, some plants prefer shady light, which get way out at Saturn, others would struggle Possibly unsurprisingly, a lot of our key to soak up a ton of light to power a lot of Of course Mars may be fine in lighting and so are seasonal concerns. Mars has a much longer year than us, and everything longer ones. This is a pretty big deal for ecosystems, very tuned up to seasons, but isn't much Like a lot of magic, the trick is to use smoke A lot of growing stuff in space is likely to create the ideal lighting level and duration, of light we don't want, where we can't the mirrors or domes. One problem with a lot of those frequencies, of the sheer energy in those higher-frequency as well, which can seriously shorten the life It's one of your approaches though, you than a typical dome and concentrates light better lit, and you might be able to use tricks where only the most shade-loving plants could One can imagine igloo-like structures made in the middle, with light concentrated there. Of course Pluto is another example of very Mercury or Venus, or indeed even our own Moon, Many plants can handle perpetual lighting, dark periods is another story. You might be able to do some genetic tweaking light and then the two weeks of dark that lighting, either by light bulbs or orbiting spot. That sounds kind of high tech but isn't, system. Odds are good just about every decent sized to be okay, indeed a lot of taller, vining almost none have the right day length or ideal But a lighting satellite is actually a very places with no atmosphere of their own. You really just need your locations to have and a small computer to track conditions and that can rotate their big parabolic dishes is in their current window. It's frankly child's play compared to are barely noticeable, after all on many of a cubesat into orbit like a baseball. And it's just a mirror, probably thin aluminum power storage and attitude control. They only have to be as big as your orbital a dome, and the only reason something can't that they are generally only very loosely into things and getting trashed. On many of these, a precise and highly elliptical rocky outcropping low enough, and slow enough, Strange image, we usually talk about colonizing in them, but you might have one a dozen kilometers cylinder hab embedded into it to provide spin-gravity various domes scattered nearby growing food from solar panels or orbital mirrors. This would be home to a family of farmers rover rather than overalls and a tractor. A nice thing about smaller asteroids is their around them to get home rather than needing where you could stick up solar panels on towers You could also do vertical farming in those that rotated every 24 hours. After all, in that negligible gravity, building of tissue paper without ripping them. Now the mirrors can also solve another problem A lot of plants rely on changes in seasons Even on a planet like Mars with a very similar do not get the same seasons. We can fix that, though, by simply reflecting mirrors, depending on which season we are We can lengthen or shorten the days simply computers. We don't even need to keep the seasons constant to do that anyway. One dome could be in the middle of summer a winter. The difference could simply be that we are the other as the season changes. This means that seasonal vegetables get produced with the right mix of microbes by recreating Speaking of soil and microbes, you will never Instead, you'd make that everywhere you and organic content, there won't be a good be toxic if you simply dumped some Martian in it. Fortunately, the key ingredients for life them up and probably grow your soil in vats or yogurt. This is another reason why hydroponics tends one, dirt is heavy. Anything we do in space is either a ship, a minimum so it's cheap to move it, or a Earth. Let's move onto those stations though. As we can see, most of the celestial objects growth, it's doable but a pain, and you ground up, literally, again there's no natural So it might be easier just to build a farm Space is perpetually lit, unlike planets, time in the dark, and again most plants handle fine. However, same as you can spin a space station rotate every 24 hours. It doesn't have to spin in the same direction to produce the necessary spin-gravity, but light to each side, or just have a shutter Space is rather big and the Sun gives off gets, plants don't need that much lighting, light, but we have a ton of different geometries lighting them, which is always a good idea. And again, plants don't need full gravity structures as we are with a classic cylinder You can make some very large structures, probably structural support since they are low gravity any, actually in them. Those folks might be wearing spacesuits inside in conditions optimized to them, not people, on temperature, carbon dioxide, humidity, Or maybe they'd just be piloting robots I would actually tend to guess most rotating off-site in nearby space farms instead, reserving for themselves and more complete ecologies in food to supplement the critters living than that ecosystem might otherwise allow, just scaled up a bit, with robots depositing This lets you subsidize an ecosystem so it of genetic diversity in the wildlife. For instance, an elephant back on Earth might feed itself, but probably needs far less to additional food trucked in from space farms. The same concept applies to livestock in general. Animals need space, but they likely need as their living space by supplementing their We'll talk more about trying to maintain Exporting Earth. So growing food in space for people living doable. Economically, it's probably going to be there than to export food up there, even if The question remains though, could we grow And could that ever be economically viable? Surprisingly yes, though as with doing greenhouses do when you're getting kinda crowded or other uses. But space farming also gives us the option to prevent contamination of Earth's ecosystem, to being grown in space. Indeed, industrial-scale bio-reactors could Much of our current agriculture is already products, not just food. We already discussed, way back in the Arcologies hundreds of billions of people on Earth, in of our land for farming or housing, by going As we saw there, the big constraint isn't and getting rid of it when you're done. The thing about vertical farming is that it's everything, and while, on the one hand, the easier on Earth, the energy and lighting are You also still have to use all that energy if you're just importing the final product, Economic viability is always about your core For farming, that can vary a lot. Land costs, especially good land, transport or manpower and so on. On the extreme end of packing people onto space or even energy or money, though you was taxed to pay for getting rid of it. In that very specific context, it could be Indeed bringing food down is cheap enough, needing fuel, though that makes some heat This is one of those examples where launch our traditional view of space since you can costs reasonably similar to modern freight. And almost as importantly, return your waste You can harvest asteroids and comets for all just collecting on Earth you've got a bit It's a very long term one to be sure. You shouldn't need to import more than one people are only adding 10^15 kilograms a year years to build up enough waste to raise the only be adding around a millimeter a year You probably ultimately would want to lift farms send food to them and cities ship fertilizer concern about a mass deficit either. It's an interesting way to counteract rising of these kind of mega-engineering approaches 2.0, which I decided was a better name for Indeed you might even hang your farms right Chandelier City or in this case a Chandelier in terraforming other planets too. Terraforming is a very destructive process infrastructure first, so you might grow your To fully terraform a planet, you will be pulverising You can't make an omelette without breaking process. This could involve nuking it and smashing elsewhere into it. This would cause shockwaves, high winds, massive chemical changes in the atmosphere and soils. These actions would wreak havoc with any settlements domes, so rather than try to protect or recreate it, it's just easier to grow stuff in orbit. We'll also see it's a handy approach when Neptune next month. A great many of our ideas today relied on that is what this series is mostly about, what we can do once we're there. In this episode, and the last one on power harness the power of radiation in space to on a spaceship. In other words, how to harness the power of locally. There happens to be a great course of that through everything from how much energy there to engineer the solar energy harvesters themselves. So many of the topics we discuss here can when someone firsts hears about them, but science behind them, we can see a pathway future foundations of our society. To truly understand these concepts, it helps and at Brilliant you can pick those up, learning you, with user-friendly graphical quizzes If you want to get a better and more complete of what we discuss here, you can go to brilliant.org/IsaacArthur And also, the first 200 people that go to subscription civilization series to consider the idea of Stargate, or the alien from John Carpenter's classic novella, "Who Goes There?", our The week after that, we'll be taking a deeper you would move large and complete colonies in "Exporting Earth". For alerts when those and other episodes come And if you enjoyed this episode, hit the like Until next time, thanks for watching, and