Well, I'm sorry for the questionable I'm on a trip right now. So, all I can no Lego I'm afraid! Anyway, on with the show. person can set a tone for what a company can happen. A brilliant CEO can take it to great Over more than a century of making cars, Citroen has They've survived Nazi occupation, bankruptcy, It even spawned a spin-off brand - DS, Why did Citroen start producing cars in the innovative company, and are they still [music] Citroen was founded by Andre Citroen, and from his great grandfather, who was Andre added the two dots over the 'e' whilst at He was always an engineer. In 1901, along that made gears with a special V-shaped chevron The company was successful, and when the First producing up to 55,000 every day. switch from making things that destroy to things were latecomers to the automobile boom, they they had large production capacity - any business that machinery. And it wasn't like Andre Citroen before the war he'd also been the and brought them back from financial ruin. of Henry Ford and his Model T with its simplicity cheap runabouts. There was a real possibility Model T's. After all, France hadn't produced and their cars weren't as cheap to produce. production in just four months, Citroen absorbed 1919 - Europe's first mass produced car, car on the market. Andre Citroen had a knack for Soon Citroen were producing 20,000 cars per year. Henry Ford, copying many of his production Detroit factory. That brought inexpensive vehicles boredom to the workers, something Andre Citroen the best working conditions in Europe at the time. Type B2, and the smaller, even cheaper two-seat company so people could buy a new Citroen master of publicity, Citroen emblazoned the using it as the world's largest advertising important structure - he'd seen it been choose engineering as a career. Appropriately, Soon Citroen were exporting cars all over the sold well - over 80,000 in four years, but Citroen they hadn't got the economics right. To reduce Rather than a timber frame that had its origins construction, utilising pressed steel to make cheaper to produce. Citroen's cars were running Initially, the all-steel body wasn't stiff the brakes were improved with the Type B12 that be a big success; by 1928 Citroen were producing all cars sold in France. By 1929 they were the exporting almost half of their cars. the 4-cylinder C4 and 6-cylinder C6, But all this growth and success had come Citroens were competing on price as there were Crash brought about a worldwide recession that Citroen recovered somewhat, and by 1931 it had using their cars, of course. The C4 and C6 were of petrol engines and had the distinction of being It was a move upmarket, and an attempt to But the Rosalie couldn't pull the company out of wages but suffered industrial action. They also Maybe a next generation car could change Citroen's interest from companies such as Auto Union in literally "front traction", would be Citroen's That, along with rack and pinion steering, hydraulic But what set the Traction Avant apart was its had a base chassis, now generally metal, with the different in that it was the first production car majority of the body was the chassis - a stressed but it reduced the amount of metal needed, reducing materials, thus, hopefully, reducing completely different - like a low-slung sports car years earlier. The modern design gave it almost with a top speed over 60mph (100km/h) There were worries again about the car's rigidity - first all-steel cars, so an early crash test crash tests, so rather than the sort of things the car off a cliff and see what happened! to leapfrog the competition. The existing factory in its place. The innovative aluminium transaxle championship 24 years later, but that also again cost more money. Andre Citroen vice was and this was another expensive gamble But production delays stretched Citroen's been a company that spent more than it made, Citroen was in serious trouble. They were its major creditor, French tyre maker Michelin. 20th century, that was nothing compared to tyre tyres for the new safety bicycle in the 1890s to have one. Now everyone wanted an automobile, What's more, they were a consumable item, so tyre All these financial problems took a heavy toll on announced, he sold his shares and retired from he was admitted to hospital. Five months Thankfully, the Traction Avant was to balance the books put Citroen on firmer the TUB for "Traction Utilitaire Basse" or "Low interrupted by Germany's invasion of France. to work churning out vans for the war effort. Citroen found clever ways to subvert their organised a go-slow and got workers to put the causing many engines to seize from a lack to be arrested in the event of an Allied invasion. Nazis were packing up Citroens machinery on rail relabel all the rail cars, meaning the parts France after the Second World War was very country starved of vehicles, with little cheap transportation. Citroen had the It was a car designed to get Citroen out of its For now, that's the only car Citroen had, steel supply. Renault had been nationalised, and 4CV - a new small car that was ready to go. released a replacement in 1947 - the Type H. and also used corrugated steel low price. To get it on the road faster, it Work on the Type H had begun in secret during they'd begun work on in the 1930s - the Citroen others I'm going to talk about, so I'll skip the see the links in the description. vehicles during the war and with little money had just as they needed the Citroen Type A in production until 1948 because of the steel Citroen found they had another hit on their hands. passenger car line up - the 2CV and the Traction but by the 1950s it was overdue for a replacement. cheaper ID version arrived in 1957, the Traction popular car with many innovative features like Citroen's owner Michelin used the company DS's low aerodynamic drag, its clever 2CV suspension and radial tyres. But if you you'd be forgiven for thinking Citroen had given with a new body and some mechanical upgrades, and Through the 1960s though Citroen had been new projects. The first was a new family some car manufacturers were only just waking car faster and less expensive to run, Citroen the DS's slippery shape, and it also got the The second project was a large luxury car, get their V6 that was put in this very special many competitors to shame with features like the the jolt of potholes to the steering - it was just wipers and lightweight fibreglass wheels. Rather than multiple cylinders and other of being a much simpler design that could lead and had smoother performance. Citroen, and Citroen launched their revolutionary on a version of this new engine for a helicopter! engine were big failures. The SM was all very Very few of them were produced. The rotary engine and Mazda was the only company that could The 1973 fuel crisis hit sales of the V6-powered in the water even if it could be made reliable. 26-year old 2CV to record levels. There was making money on the car. In fact, it wasn't making the failed rotary engine and investments in Citroen had funded development of the Maserati but over the next 10 years production of A few years earlier, Michelin had spun Citroen So, when Citroen's finances got to breaking point and it was at least a relief that it didn't Citroen had been working with Fiat since the late carmaker. But the French Government wanted Citroen Peugeot, creating a joint company called PSA. The the GS and the new CX helped Citroen's finances, and ancient 2CV just weren't cutting it. So, with a few alterations, but that was all that ensure Citroen's factories remained busy. The LN Citroen's cars had always been a bit "out with self-levelling suspension that, with on three wheels. Headlights saw around bends, of a pedal. Peugeot were quite the opposite, And it was Peugeot in charge now, and Some at Citroen knuckled under, others left. Citroen in the PSA era - the 1982 Citroen which was still pretty amazing to experience, but the driver controls shed many of those quirky in check, the BX platform was shared with the like a turbocharged diesel engine that The BX was supposed to replace the GS, but to get a bit extra life out of the production something Citroen had always resisted before had also been trying to create a small car of Eastern European Oltcit Club. It didn't sell into the France as the cut price Citroen Axel. AX in 1986 - a car that wasn't meant to be as a replacement for the Talbot Samba, but PSA axed it before the new Samba could appear. but it didn't have the "upturned pram"s character. replacement, the XM. It still used hydropneumatic SM's self-centring power steering, plus a solid of the Year in 1990. To save development costs, but both cars didn't sell as well as were becoming less nationalistic and looking to had come down. It didn't help that the XM was a and suffered from reliability problems at haunted cars like the Traction Avant and the before its replacement, the C6 launched. Citroen had the AX, but it needed something So, the ZX appeared, a little late, in 1990. just a solid small hatchback which, if that was in Peugeot's image than Citroen's. There was no It was reworked as the 1997 Citroen Xsara. Like the BX it shared its platform with and the Xantia got an updated version of so good at keeping the car upright through holds the record speed through the moose test out the Porsche 997! The ZX and the Xantia sold The Renault Espace had done well as one of the wanted to replicate it but they felt that company to develop their own. So, Volkswagen Sharan and Galaxy. PSA and Fiat did the The Citroen version was called the Evasion on It was updated and renamed the Citroen C8 in 2002. countries, including China - a large market that at the start little more than European cars but eventually cars like the second generation C6 The AX was replaced by the Saxo in 1996, now This made economic sense, but it meant the and that Citroen flair was steadily disappearing. was the switchgear but not in a good way. Some the car feel dated compared to the competition. but they wanted a smaller car to fit down narrow So, in the late 1990s there was an explosion of small version was the 1999 Xsara Picasso, a brand-new It was designed by Donata Coco, who's more recently the Xsara Picasso is his greatest creation. The name was licensed from the famous painter's just slapping his name willy-nilly on a car, and Citroen's cars in the 2000s were more of with Peugeot to produce a range of cars and share C6 and of course the C-Crosser. For some reason which was the working title. Maybe it was Donato Coco design, was loosely styled on the replacing the XM after a 5 year hiatus, but retreat to the small and medium car market. so over there the C4 was renamed as Audi from selling the A4 as the A4 though! continued to grow as people warmed to the Citroen had a 16% market share in France, which was The DS was by now a classic that had been put on PSA decided to capitalise on this by creating innovated and re-enchanted the everyday", model was the DS3, a car that was originally generation C3. The brand saw an initial boom, the range expanded, sales have tailed off. Picasso and was joined with more crossovers C4 Aircross. The range grew in China as they sold Facing financial difficulties, PSA turned to 2012. They believed the path to stability was But just a year later, GM sold its stake, and to stay afloat. The Citroen brand was facing partner and the French Government each took a Electric vehicles and hybrids were starting to with BMW to share the development cost, a The GM deal would of course also have helped with hybrid Chevrolet/Holden Volt that was sold as also failed. This would delay PSA's ability But they would eventually appear. There a car that called back to the 1968 Mehari, Despite lower sales, cost-cutting and a cash and Citroen sales turned around in the second another buying spree. They couldn't work with Vauxhall and Opel from them in 2017, much to the again platform sharing - a large car company could and Lotus but were outbid by Chinese company to merge with Fiat Chrysler. The resulting was a very small cog in a very large machine. from a high of over 300,000 in 2014 to under sales dropped. They fell even further in 2020 and as a whole began to struggle to compete Citroen might have had a generic range of something new. The Citroen Ami, also sold as the launched just at the wrong time - February 2020, shame as it's a competent two-person city car. class in France that means it can be driven by 14 afford EUR8,000 (PS6,700, $8,800 USD, $12,900 loyal fanbase in many congested European cities. European market, Citroen pushed into emerging compact crossover that was sold, and Citroens have always worn the double chevron and over 100 years later they still do. when they were so far ahead of the competition. became the mother of invention, and Citroen cars like the 2CV, and cars that ran rings They had their successes, but after the war cars have always had an oddity to them. After slowly, but they also shed the innovation The last time Citroen won European Car with the XM. The Ami might be a cute little 2CV or DS. Those cars will always be Citroen's There are links to a couple of my Citroen car many more in the description. I hope you enjoyed a lot about Citroen's early history. Thanks for