13 Surprising Uses Of Hydrogen Peroxide Hydrogen peroxide is an inexpensive and handy It has so many great uses; some you're likely you. already have a bottle at home! But if you at any drug store or grocery store. ways to use hydrogen peroxide. Number 1 - Sanitize Your Toothbrush Did you know that toothbrushes can be exposed Pretty gross, right? cause health issues. But to keep your toothbrush peroxide once a week. bacterial count by 85 percent! Number 2 - Boost Your Laundry If your white clothes have a dingy appearance be tempted to spend extra money on those oxy-based deep clean even better. expensive detergents when you can use hydrogen Next time you're running a load of whites, washing machine to deodorize and remove stains Number 3 - Keep Food Fresher Whether it's a fresh head of lettuce or some with hydrogen peroxide, you can keep greens, Spray your salad greens with equal amounts them from becoming soggy. You can also add bowl or sink full of cold water and soak your Just be sure to properly rinse them before Number 4 - Kill Dust Mites Dust mites feed on the tiny bits of skin that bedroom, and they multiply rapidly. to prevent dust mites from taking over your Once every two weeks or so, spray your uncovered peroxide and water. Once dry, use a vacuum critters. Number 5 - Clean Glass And Mirrors No matter how diligently you clean your windows to leave ugly streaks. Hydrogen peroxide is here to save the day. Just spray some on your mirrors and windows as that! Number 6 - Clean your dishwasher Ready for some more gross facts? discoveries. Get this! Fungus was detected 47 percent of them had the black yeast E. To eradicate mold and mildew in your dishwasher, where moisture might remain long after a cycle seals, traps, and crevices of the utensil Number 7 - Get Rid Of Stinky Feet Are you embarrassed about your stinky feet? and clean with some hydrogen peroxide. need to do is soak your feet in one part hydrogen This same treatment can help prevent foot calluses and corns. Number 8 - Clean Toilets Hydrogen peroxide can keep your toilet clean it performs a two-fold function. It cleans Simply pour 1/2 a cup of hydrogen peroxide or so. Then, give it a good scrub with a toilet Flush, and you're done! Number 9 - Remove Ear Wax Buildup If you have trouble hearing, it might be due to the rescue! a few drops of hydrogen peroxide in your ear. leaning the opposite way to let the solution Then, rinse out your ear with a little warm Number 10 - Whiten Yellowed Nails If you paint your nails frequently, you've over time. hydrogen peroxide-soaked cotton ball to your Be sure to follow up with a moisturizer or can be a bit drying. Number 11 - Clean Your Washing Machine Washing machines, particularly those high-efficiency This is caused by mold and mildew resulting Using hydrogen peroxide is far less expensive to clean your washing machine. peroxide into the empty washing machine drum job. Number 12 - Disinfecting Countertops Good ol' hydrogen peroxide can also be used as well as any other hard surface where germs Instead of using harsh, chemically-laden cleaning an equal amount of water in a spray bottle. then wipe them off with a clean rag or paper Number 13 - Induce Vomiting to Save Your Dog's Knowing how to make a dog vomit might save the vet fast enough. you can use hydrogen peroxide to help induce 1/2 to 1 teaspoon of 3 percent hydrogen peroxide It works by irritating the dog's intestinal That said, inducing vomiting usually only contents. That may or may not be enough to In any case, you should consult with a vet. While hydrogen peroxide works great when mixed ammonia, chlorine bleach, or vinegar as it And to be extra safe, use only 3 percent hydrogen It's also important to note that hydrogen once you open it. And, it should be kept in break down the compound. Hence the reason So, what's your favorite way to use hydrogen Thanks for watching! If you thought this video offered some useful it with your friends. It allows us to create If you want to see more videos from us, be - so you never miss a video.