The rift between Prince William and Prince too many painful things been said Prince there's a serious rift A controversial move. Princes when they farewell their grandfather. Prince Philip The Duke of Sussex was the first to leave death, with some reports that his wife it wasn't all about Meghan. there doesn't seem a path out of this current situation. they are the broken brothers Prince William. Prince Harry long of the monarchy, the brothers who grew up together The harmony between the two replaced by We will see how their upbringing unfolded and the moments How did the bond of the once And will they ever be able to repair Hugh Whitfield is the Europe bureau chief He is reported on the royal family and the lows, if we're going to go back to the start, kind of need to go back to Princess and the way that Diana completely was viewed by the public, the relatively staid nature of the British glamorous, young, innocent looking woman who was about to Radiantly happy and accompanied Spencer. Diana bewitched At her it meant there was a renewed interest about the royal family Because Princess Diana garnered interest and general interest Hundreds of children were excited about Princess Diana was again given more roses The Princess of Wales has been the best Probably in centuries. It's the Princess of Wales. It's quite the influence. Good evening. It's a boy. News of Prince William's birth was strapped to the railings the Prince of Wales has given birth God save the Queen. the young princess still in her early twenties standing on the steps of the Lindo in Paddington, cradling this baby boy who would one day be king was, you know, the dreams of the dreams of all tabloid And all of a sudden, women, men right around the world adored this not just young couple, In September 1984, their second child was born, In the two years Princess Diana had matured. She was now relaxed and confident, Outside Buckingham Palace. Many of the crowds and just before 6:00 They demanded the Queen's post. But the boy in red, Her Royal Highness the Princess of Wales, to the I think once Harry arrived, all of a sudden and these two young boys unfortunately for them in the public eye, but with this somewhat innocent princess as their mother family in a way, certainly in the way with these two, who were being shown around the world as the very image of the perfect family wanted to be perceived it's to be the best mother And you only have to look at the way particularly when her marriage to Charles unfortunately, I think for all of them, much of the the happy times You look at the vision of them or Disney World in America, but in front of The Princess of Wales has agreed to Prince A spokeswoman for the Princess said to be involved in all decisions and she will continue the divorce of their parents as anyone who's the child of divorce But to have it played out in what became known would have been enormously difficult But the decision was made by Charles by Diana more than anyone, And Eton is just across the Thames It's literally a five Harry's followed in his brother's footsteps From this West London nursery school where he passed Harry's been very clear in his memoir, Spare between the two boys wasn't always great And he's complained that William and didn't really want to acknowledge that However much she tried to try and give them a normal upbringing, They were never going to be normal, as a future king, and Harry was not. Diana, Princess of Wales, has been killed Our royal correspondent, Nicholas, one's heart goes out, To the young princes William and Harry. William and Harry, indeed. So when Diana died in August of 1997, William was 15 years old, They were on school holidays. It was the summer holidays up at Balmoral in Paris in the car crash was news to them in the morning here in the UK. He sat down on the edge of the bed. He put a hand on my knee, told him, boy, mummy's been in a car crash. I remember thinking, crash. Okay, but she's all right. Yes. I vividly remember that thought flashing through my mind. And I remember waiting patiently for Paul to confirm And I remember him not doing that. Here, along Kensington Gardens, deep, in part proof if it was needed. She was better loved than many of us knew. Here, in the silence, to come to terms the coffin, draped with the Royal tulips, lilies and a small round A card with a single word. Mummy. that little card nestled among the flowers, when the world saw that, for people to realize that he were two young boys, just 15 and 12 years of age, in such distressing and shocking walking behind her coffin not just the 2 million people who'd lined hundreds of millions of people around the world. between Diana's death and her huge funeral in London, Charles accompanied William and Harry around the grounds of Kensington Palace, to greet some of those crowds And for William, at 15 years of age, the life that he was born into crowds like that, to be doing that I think you can see in the pictures he was with people he had never met, who had never met his mother when at the same time he was trying to And the same for Harry. it would have been a monumentally distressing and agonizing time, but obviously for the entire family in movies or the media. I think everyone can put themselves to receive After the funeral of their mother. Harry They were largely out of the glare But as William finished school, as young adult royals would see them gradually at first after they left Eton, both boys were given to try and find their feet because he was able to go to St in Scotland, which is pretty isolated Difficult for the tabloids to find him. There was an agreement, for the most part Prince William alone, in the same for Harry like Australia, a bit of jack ruing, parks and get in touch with endeavors And also training with the armed forces. And ultimately Harry, of course, which And that too gave him an opportunity not to live a normal life He was serving in the armed forces, that was open to ordinary men, And both of those experiences for William were probably the happiest times of the public glare for the most part, And I am. And Harry throughout his life Was in this pub near the estate that the 17 year old is said to have been The local police say they will examine Harry's public persona through the tabloid the Nazi uniform The party. Prince is back! These photos of Harry, published by gossip a game of strip billiards in a Las Vegas William also knew how to have a good time. It was pretty clear as well the the paparazzi were able to capture him And that's normal. But what's not normal is being carried into a chauffeur driven rain driver to be taken back to Kensington Palace Harry, in his book seeks to blame others and often say wasn't given the right guidance or staff But ultimately, Harry's an adult and he should be really taking responsibility I just want to be clear. Are you really saying that third in line you taking a class Because I think that's a question Do you accept that is a matter I think was a matter of public is the relationship between the unfortunately for him, much of his 20s was played out That is not a comfortable place to be. and we must acknowledge It has now been proven of phone including his relationships were, spread across the tabloids because his phone was hacked. And that is not something That's not something that anyone deserves. he was entitled to Even more so now, it must be argued, royal duties and he's not, But during the 20s he was. And unfortunately for him, in private investigators in London that he would have hoped for particularly was lost. And he's now been, compensated for that. I think it's very difficult to play, to to look back at hindsight and play But I think what Diana did instill was, the desire from both of them both these men have looked to their heart over their heads and I think that Diana And the nation has a future queen. William has done much to give Now he is entering In. Not so much stepping into the spotlight, Prince William and Kate Middleton appeared Their wedding promises to be the biggest event in London A small but determined crowd to set up Sleeping on the streets seat to the wedding of the decade. And for the faithful. A preview of the main April 29, 2011. The new fairy tale was being written was marrying into the royal family Kate Middleton at the top of the Isle of Westminster Abbey, the place she will leave as a princess. stepping into this spring sunshine. The new royal couple. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge. there were the new Duke and Duchess of Cambridge on a fantastic day in London, with crowds enjoying the fact that the future king And it's very clear that William Catherine Middleton, now the Princess the trio were popular not just in the UK This was crucial to addressing the need to strengthen public support I think from the public's perception and couple of years is William and Kate and the sorts of issues for the most part, it seemed as though they looked like the perfect trio, And William and Kate seemed quite happy at that time for the royal family because keep in mind, and the boys maybe weren't very happy William certainly has come to accept it. So the two big key weapons had, particularly when it came to the Commonwealth, had taken to Australia, dubbed because he had been embraced by Australia but also this trio of William, Kate who were able to campaign together and embrace issues The key issue that they were working and heads together. We have seen time and time again like the harms Head together wants to help with their every day mental health, the three of us working with all of you and others who will join us along the way, of providing everyone who needs help And for William, Kate and Harry to do that together, they were able to put realm into the public realm, fun and easygoing way. And they were the perfect trio, which is essentially what they were, to use as a way of showing with, And, and, of the monarchy at that time, though, he did give an interview in New Zealand for the most part, that he was really keen to find someone that he loved that William and Kate that was able to be essentially Does that feel like a big pressure to, you know, to You presumably don't No, I'm never wanted that. But as I said, you know, if people can, that I'm going to make the right decision and that whatever it is, and make other people proud, Settle down. Does that put no pressure? But does it make you think. Actually, Have a bit of. You know, is the time to settle down But I don't think you can foresee things. You know it'll happen Of course, I would love to have kids right there's a process And, you know, tools like hopefully I'm doing right by myself. It would be great to have someone else But, you know, it's, time will come. Whatever happens, happens, I guess. I think that was probably the first time that Harry was probably and he's in his personal life so for all of the work that Harry, William and Kate essentially little baby to And that was the Invictus is about meeting our military men with the respect they deserve. Harry had been the subject of rumours with an actress, In Vancouver, Prince Harry, since their relationship first started, have decided that this would be the event for the very first time. Unless you'd watched suits. It was probably the first time ever seen her, and to have her alongside not just for the royal family, As well, because all of a sudden as to how the next couple of years Does it confirm Of course not. But it does increase the speculation to show the world, and yes, that they are serious about one another. It wasn't long after that appearance one morning in November 2017, and the email boxes that Harry and Meghan were engaged, at Kensington Palace Is coming up to 2:00. This is the scene in the gardens and his bride to be, the American actress Meghan we scrambled down to the palace, There we were, all arranged around at the home where Harry had been raised and where he had been living, And it turns out that Meghan at Nottingham Cottage, little cottage off And down the steps Meghan with the ring on. it was, a bit of a surreal moment to see because there was Harry, proud and happy And I think it gave us the sense was treating this because he knew And it was a real moment, just how protective the wedding was a great day and it was a great week. Mainly because the weather Not a cloud in the sky for the whole week surrounding the castle, on the streets of Windsor, a town royal watchers and, big royal events. But he was a genuinely happy occasion. It's obviously marvellous and I'm Everybody. What's it been like getting to know Welcoming her to the family? It's very nice. It's so very exciting. So you all ready? We can't wait. As the royal wedding becomes a soap opera. The show must go on. The world's media is here. This town is about to host And three days out, is seemingly lost control. Unfortunately for the Windsors, nothing ever really goes to plan. There's always a curveball. Something always upsets the narrative. and on the occasion of Harry and All weddings are prone to family drama, has it with the world. Watching a Hollywood fairy tale without a crisis They claim he's been staging photos The Mail on Sunday published this video Thomas Markle and paparazzi snapper Meghan's 71 year old father is of his daughter and Harry online, but Images of Mr. Markle getting fitted for his suit were it immediately because nobody really knew We knew that Doria Ragland, mother, was very close to her daughter. But who was Thomas? Who was Thomas Markle? The lighting, director for TV sitcoms in Hollywood? Would he be coming to the wedding? Would he be walking And then just a few days before news that Thomas, under the stress potentially, of the tabloid headlines that had been generated by these photos, Could Harry and Meghan contact him? They would text messages and forwards, phone calls that he could make the wedding Ultimately, he didn't come, and it was Prince Charles at the time walking his daughter in obviously proud as punch that his son had found a woman to love and to marry. it was the perfect image. And it was for the most part, The crowds were so happy including Australia, to be there walk, their only glimpse of Harry for a brief moment after wedding out in some cases, days to be there. But everybody loved it. It was perfect. And the method. So after the wedding in May 2018, the royal family is on after what was a magical day at Saint Megan was being integrated Kate and Harry to become a foursome, As they were dubbed by the British press. You'll often hear people say, well, you're helping women And I fundamentally disagree with that They have a voice. They need to feel empowered to use it. And people need to be encouraged Kate, over the course of her royal work, seemed, enjoyed it and always came across actually going back right to the beginning in which we could all work But Meghan was an actress, obviously it's incredibly exciting. And yes, I think for me working on college driven work, she oozed confidence on that day alongside what we now can appreciate would have been a slightly nervous even uncomfortable William and Kate, had seen themselves lined up against this. You know, perfect public performer and I think Harry Meghan, you are new to the foundation, working with charities, It would be interesting to find out, of the Royal Foundation so far Yeah, no. Of course. at the time, from a, a journalists it appeared that this was This was the future of the royal family, William, the future Queen Kate. And, yes, the spear in Harry. But this star couple in the Duke and I think looking ahead, that, William was going to always always say the things that Harry and Meghan could But it appeared that Harry and Meghan his brother and the future Queen and, and make sure that this monarchy into the future Ultimately, behind the scenes, the rift between the brothers is still really as bad My name is Valentine Lowe. the former royal correspondent I'm also an author. I wrote a book called courtiers. But the advisers to the royal family. I was a royal correspondent for the Times Covered, everything Harry and Meghan's wedding, and more tours when Meghan first appeared on the scene, she and Harry very close knit team, or women, and they reverted to them. They, that Meghan She needed help. She needed looking after, to marry into the royal family, And they they believed in it. But as the months and the years passed, they felt a lot of them felt They felt that she was never really intent and a lot of members of staff felt badly treated by, well, and it was it was quite a bruising time. in general. Royal palaces People are always jockeying for position. People are always And you also have to bear in mind and you have different you could have, for instance, William and Kate, and Meghan was set up in Buckingham Palace Prince Charles, as he then was, And all these different households and the people who worked for them And depending on how, assiduous And and sometimes you had quite serious between the different courtiers it was at Christmas 2018 at Sandringham that William confronted Harry In his book, spare accuses from the tabloids and and a bit of a above her station between the two brothers later on where there was this physical and the disagreements were always over. Meghan, I think I mean, the most dramatic, was the fight, Harry fell over and broke the brick, the dog bell, pushed, pushed by William. But I think the, William suggesting to Harry in the early days that possibly he was taking things the coolness of, William and Kate towards Megan. and when I say the coolness, But also, I think Megan was difficult. So the failure of that relationship to William and Kate and Megan, that was the most serious thing The rift was between the men. The brothers, in the early days this was just tabloid scuttlebutt. But ultimately it's all been proven true because Meghan, according to her, was made William and Kate, And it all ultimately led to an exit. Like 2019. Harry and Meghan embark tour of southern Africa, Angola, South Africa, Namibia. You. And the headlines were perfect. They were everything They were everything that, the court at Kensington This meticulously planned, royal tour where we were able to see that Harry and Meghan were able southern Africa, heart where he had done I want you to know that for me, as a woman, I'm incredibly proud to say that the UK is going to provide PS8 million working with South African government Following them at the time, though, was an ITV documentary crew had conducted the interview with William He, in the mid who had been able to connect in a way that few other royal and ultimately he had able to become somewhat of a friend, And so he'd been able to convince that he was the right person The difficulties between those two to William and Harry and Meghan's household around the time, and Meghan's tour of Southern Africa and William and Kate, just when they documentaries about William there was a pointed moment where Tom asks Meghan if she's okay, and the cracks start to appear and the tears begin welling up in the Duchess's eyes because she says and no one really asks if she's okay. Yeah. Well, because not many people have asked it's a very real thing And the answer is, would it be fair to say no, not really. Okay. And it's really been a struggle. Yes. She wasn't happy, she wasn't okay. And when that documentary went to after the tour, there was proof. Prince Harry has tried to shield I never thought that this would be easy, and for my wife. You know, there's a there's. Of course, especially It's not enough to just survive something, That's not the point of life. You've got to thrive. Harry has been shown as a vulnerable still struggling and trying to protect his family there was a lot of bitterness, in William and Kate's household that made headlines everywhere William and Kate's tour of Pakistan, so there were there was between the two households then, and yes, But at one point, William thought, well, you know, This is when he got back, and, they were speaking. I think they were speaking by WhatsApp. and, William said to Harry, Can I come around and see you at Frogmore and Harry was sort of okay about this, but then he said, well, And William said, well, you know, because I have to change my diary. I have to change my arrangements. and Harry said, well, don't come because if you tell your private secretary, if you tell your people And I don't want it to leak. So the the level of mistrust Meghan's people, That brother couldn't see brother, yeah. After the documentary is the pressure is building particularly for the British press, That is not immune from criticism To start questioning Meghan's role, and the relationship between both of them Just days after leading the press pack Prince Harry with reporters and photographers in tow, to see news of another between the Sussexes For we have proof behind the scenes on this tour, though, their first legal action for what Harry perceived to be intrusion before Meghan arrived, he's what they considered to be By sources, being published about Prince Harry during, Two lawsuits filed in London's High Court the Duke of Sussex against news Group Prince Harry is claimed to be among when he was a teenager. Buckingham Palace, to the illegal interception it was but one thing you have to remember One shouldn't make the mistake because what you would, you have to Harry was actually pretty unhappy his his battles with the media long predated Meghan's arrival, and, one of the most interesting and perceptive things someone said to me This is someone who'd been close to Harry he said he didn't like what he and Meghan they've done, but in a way she did in The Greatest Kindness And she, she, she, she came along and Who's in? in the run up to Christmas, clearly the pressure reaches a point where They don't even be in the UK. They decide to head to Canada, they're going to spend Christmas Probably not. The situation that the Queen certainly They spend six weeks away They return to London and their first engagement the people of Canada, is a visit to Canada in central London, and they're greeted They sit down for tea and they're there and the sort of thing that any member not just a commonwealth nation, is on the throne. But it was that night that the sun splashes that Harry and Meghan arriving. They went out and again the the narrative that was the positive narrative Yes. They've had their six weeks away. They're saying thanks to Canada at the top of the news websites before there's another story and Megxit is on. Harry and Meghan going rogue, resigning from the royal family. The way this has been The Sussexes determined to do things Announcing the bombshell on Instagram. We intend to step back as senior members financially independent, while continuing But the Queen wasn't told. That is therefore duplicitous or at best, an extraordinarily irresponsible Palace sources say the 93 year releasing this terse statement. Discussions with the Duke and We understand their desire but these are complicated issues It's a statement of someone who has been sort of bowled over much like the rest of the world bombshell Senior members of the royal family You've got the most recognisable members of the royal Family If you like, suddenly announcing tonight that they're going to step back I mean, it is quite staggering news. What began with a fairytale wedding is ending with a split confirmation of what one paper has dubbed The quote. But Meghan, once But I do think it's very sad Ten days after revealing days of tense Harry and Meghan will make what's being described The Sussexes won't publicly use as his and Her Royal Highness. They won't draw on public funds royal duties or represent the Queen. So that means no more royal tours. War veteran Harry will sever his military of the Royal Marines, for renovations at Frogmore Cottage Harry and Meghan have decided The royal family effectively And that's it. Off the off to Canada, pretty much. Meghan is already there. Harry is expected to join his wife He wants to make her happy We didn't quite realise how much. It makes a very clean break about what they will be doing I think this is a good solution, how the couple will earn and the nature of the commercial ventures Charles will continue to give Harry cash Harry, Meghan and Archie will always I recognise the challenges as a result of intense scrutiny and support Her Majesty saying she was particularly so quickly become one of the family. It is my whole family's hope allows them to start But for the Sussexes, as one paper has put Harry and Meghan are gone. the royal lives are essentially over, and there's a gaping hole in the work Because this star couple embraced, work that so many other members either were locked in because it would have been uncomfortable have have have walked away from this to carry out work that they'd been vocal William and Kate kind of left, of the modern monarchy, that the Queen But most certainly the to engineer But the star couple are gone, and William absolutely already, and and glamorous in their own right A left to carry the can. And they are left in a difficult situation three young kids, much as they can in a normal environment But Harry and Meghan have bunked off and, it it immediately to be there for the royal engagements Harry. Meghan is clearly trying and trying to find their fate in a very non-royal environment, on their Duke and Duchess the HRH before them, and they start to go down a path that is so foreign to the royal family have given interviews before, interviews like the one that Harry At home in California. Oh, my. You really are having a baby with a message for London. We did what we had to do. One year after they left the so-called firm, Britain's most revered family. Its divisions. Did you make Kate cry? No. And dysfunction. The first mixed race person During her first pregnancy, an unnamed Conversations about how dark What? Those were conversations Meghan says she sought palace help, but was turned away. Were you having suicidal thoughts? Yes. This was very, very clear. For Queen Elizabeth's unambiguous praise, has always been wonderful to me. Did you blindside the Queen? No. I've never blindsided my grandmother. I have too much respect for her, Harry says his dad hasn't There's a lot of work I feel really let down. it's clear that there are scores that Harry and Meghan feel It's ugly, it's uncomfortable and, it's all being played out There was a lot of fear surrounding it. Was very scared knowing you won't be given security. It's not going to be given a title. Usually in person over the phone, via WhatsApp. But very few families, their dirty laundry is in front of a global the failure of that relationship that was the most serious thing Just one month after the bombshell The House of Windsor was rocked again With In April 2021, the sad news, emerges He'd been sick for some time. Obviously, he'd been in but, it kind of as a bit of a shock. in large part funeral and mourning process because at the time, the UK was so they were only going to be 30 people Saint George's Chapel Harry flies back alone. Meghan doesn't come with him. More than two years a month since Harry told the world Now a chance to heal the friction Is a friction Speaking to the BBC, former who was appointed as a special guardian the only British politician A shared emotion, a shared grief at the present time I think is an ideal opportunity that it is possible to mend Prince Philip, nurtured his grandson Harry Both served in the armed forces. The Duke was in hospital the family were made in last month's Philip's funeral on Saturday where the world watched This time, all eyes as Harry and William stand side by side. It was a ceremonial funeral with no fuss, Just like his hearse. A modified Land Rover to carry his coffin On top of the casket in a sealed envelope. A private note from Her Majesty. On the toughest of days, and grandchildren took the long walk Today there would be no military uniforms The Queen ordering them instead to wear suits with military medals Charles and Anne taking the lead. But it was William and Harry Her Majesty making the journey It was our first glimpse of the Queen wearing a face mask, Then, at 3 p.m., as the Duke's coffin reached the chapel as the United Kingdom fell silent Number one, the one. Five on. Inside the chapel. A haunting image of the Queen. Alone and barely visible. With a big hat. And that mask hiding her face. Socially distant Listening to the Dean of Windsor. Giving thanks for the remarkable life we remember the many ways in which his long life We have been inspired by his service to the nation by his courage, fortitude and faith. At the end of the funeral, there's a moment a, a small, walk in talk between the two brothers. It's the first public reproach many months between the two brothers And it is without doubt that there is a Surely one image that would gladden Well, it is often said that funerals and that is a sight, let's be honest, not least those in the family themselves. It looks like that the funeral might be the moment these two young men who've lost might be able to mend those bridges to their father as well, that this relationship Unfortunately, it didn't last long In September of 2022. The royal family changed forever. few moments ago, Buckingham Palace announced the death of Her Majesty Breaking news from Scotland Queen Elizabeth the Second has passed away The Queen is dead at 96. Elizabeth the Second is gone. The Queen died peacefully at Balmoral The King and Queen consort this evening The death of my beloved mother, a moment of the greatest sadness for me We mourn profoundly and a much loved mother. I know her loss will be deeply felt and the Commonwealth, and by countless people around the world My family and I will be comforted of the respect and deep affection September 2022, the Queen's death catches Yes, we knew that she was sick, we'd seen the Queen, albeit for the changeover between Prime Ministers that happened on the Tuesday. But by this Thursday Her Majesty had died but Queen Elizabeth and there is a scramble to get to Balmoral The procession of senior royals Prince William drove his uncles Andrew and Edward, and the Countess Too late, though, to see their mother Prince Visibly upset, more than an hour after her Harry and Meghan had been in Europe in Dusseldorf in Germany, it out and engagement So they were in the country, it meant that it exposed again the, Harry was now perceived Prince Edward, were able to scramble to Balmoral on a royal flight. Harry is left behind An early exit for the Duke of Sussex. Harry, the King's youngest son. Fast tracked airside at Aberdeen Airport on a commercial plane Their final destination Windsor, staying the Duke by himself mingling with staff to London, So if Harry felt like there was proof to some extent of his own making, and Meghan's decision On the Long Walk in Windsor, they were commemorating Windsor Castle was her favourite home Now, forever into the embrace She travelled from one end of the country to the other But here the journey was nearing its end. For most to imagine the Britain of 1952 But it's even harder to imagine a Windsor without her after the passing of the Queen, Prince It's soon apparent Well, it's blunt Spare is the title of Prince Harry's the ER and the spare, a reference Of course, Harry has lived his life Penguin random House is that for Harry? This is his story at last, and it's told And that, should, royal watchers The memoir will chart Harry's childhood, and the reasons why he decided by the time the book came out it's that Harry is taking vengeance and he's, So far, Harry's memoir has sold making it the fastest In addition to talking about what happened almost everything about the relationship with his family, his brother on. He's quite keen, as somewhat of a victim. He is dirty. Laundry He details disagreements, arguments, He describes and he doesn't cast then he wonder what's left to tell. After his unsparing TV interviews, she was the villain talking here How is she dangerous? Because of the need for her That made her dangerous. That made her dangerous that she was forging It means to fall out with his brother, overwhelmingly disappointed, for going after the love The Windsor home was a wedding gift but after the publication the King has reportedly offered Prince Andrew, to downsize from his current mansion dominate a new reign where Harry is literally publishing details of this family breakdown. for the world to read. And it would seem for profit. A new dawn over Buckingham Palace. King Charles The new normal the Second for the final time. Buckingham Palace. The place where Charles was born. Today marked new beginnings. He and Queen Camilla carried in Drawn by six Windsor Greys and escorted Everything precision planned They say long to reign over us. And today it did. In a word, miserable. But the crowds didn't flinch, It looked spectacular. The bells final guests, Charles and Camilla. They were followed by the Prince Britain's 1953 Charles was full. Since then, and that of ex-wife Diana's Today a life. Hi, climax of the day. His life. The crowning. At over two kilos, it's extremely heavy. The symbolic weight far heavier. 74 year old Charles Philip. Arthur. George. King Charles the Third. It will be a popularity boost but in the meantime, Could today Happy and glorious. Charles is now the King and he would have no doubt dreamt, that and hoped that his two sons, his two precious boys, would have been there In reality, it's only William and Kate in this slimmed down and the new Duke and Duchess of Edinburgh, But because Harry and Meghan are gone, in the royal family and those who are And that is exacerbated in early 2024, when Kate goes into hospital She's out of action for many, many weeks. when it comes to Princess Kate's recent health woes, Kate Middleton, the Princess of Wales, was admitted to the hospital The precise details are top secret, the Duchess is determined I think the palace, the palace view is always that you put up, because everything every new thing you do sparks another William cancels engagements to look after his wife and, on the day that it is revealed that Kate is already in hospital for her abdominal surgery, the King needs to go in for an enlarged but benign prostate. So we are forewarned He spends the weekend in the same, as his daughter in law, but it emerges a week later that the King has cancer. It's the mantra Never complain. Never explain. But not anymore. In January, King Charles underwent surgery How are you feeling? We Palace has released a statement that Prince Charles is being diagnosed received which has announced that the King Buckingham Palace says His Majesty has today commenced which time he's been advised by doctors after the announcement Harry, very quickly, tells the world to the UK to see his father, and in fact, he's very quickly at LAX He touches down and he's granted barely half an hour and then very quickly is back out to Heathrow to head back to, to LA. Prince Harry, and headed over here from his home base and went straight to Clarence House I jumped on the plane and How was that visit for you emotionally? look, I love I love my family. The fact that I was lucky that I was able to get on a plane and go I'm grateful for that. What's sort of your outlook on on it's almost absurd that, a father and son relationship has descended to the point to Sandringham not just even support him, but be there. The Duke of Sussex is Mia. one of the most difficult times We come on air this morning It was a message unlike any before After weeks of worry, questions Britain's Princess Kate has publicly In January, I underwent major and at the time it was thought that my The surgery was successful, however, tests after the operation on Kate's cancer diagnosis for the royal family around the time in mid-January, the king was treated announcing weeks later that he has cancer. Early March, the princess pulled by international news agencies Kate later said she'd added to the image, from the public eye fuelled from Buckingham Palace. His Majesty is so proud of Catherine Harry and Meghan, saying we wish health and hope they are able to do so privately And little brother James Middleton, we have climbed many mountains together We will climb this one with you to hell. I'd like to take this opportunity to say of support for Catherine and It means a great deal to us all. it becomes really clear that the modern monarchy that had been criticised, is now too slim. And that is in part because Harry and Meghan didn't want to be a part of it. Harry's trip to the UK is so brief that he doesn't, go to Windsor, to see his brother You but now the relationship is so broken I just don't see them coming back. obviously, you know, King you know that that prompted Harry but, you know, I, I can't see any signs of any serious rapprochement So there might be a bit more rapprochement but it's going to be a slow And Meghan has no desire to come back. We see we she just launched so she's, you know, she's definitely she. Her life is in America, And of course, that's So I can't see Harry coming back in He might come back a bit more often. It may be if the family relations improve. A bitch, you might see him occasionally. It's the family functions, So I think that's at various there are long periods of silence There are text messages it is a complete disintegration of what was a, very, very strong bond between these two little boys who became teenagers, with important roles And it is William who is now on his own. And at some point William will be king. And it is now very clear, that the man that he could have expected for the firm, for the country, really isn't going to be he at all. This relationship is clearly been through of years since Harry got married, but it would appear that right now this relationship is so broken Not even the King's to restore or repair if Charles gets very, very ill, but it's possible it's possible even they think, you know, this rift. and just put on a good face, Didn't remember that Know, don't make my final years of misery. so they might put on a if there was a low point, this right now is one of them. I don't think there's any chance, of them having a serious reconciliation too many painful things being said for The relationship is so broken, potentially so irretrievable, that, it's going to clearly take potentially another cataclysmic event We don't know what that might be, they are the broken brothers. And there doesn't seem a path