The largest things in the In contrast to things like planets or and can literally grow endlessly. Although in different kinds of black holes, from really tiny So how do black holes grow and how This video will not discuss how black holes work detail in our black hole and neutron star series, interested in finding the largest thing in the Primordial Black holes The smallest kind of black holes may or may not objects in the universe, older even than atoms. when the universe was so dense with that was just slightly more dense than The smallest Primordial Black Hole that kilograms or so, the mass of a big mountain. A Primordial Black hole with the mass of This makes them very hard to find, so we they exist they may even be the mysterious Let's move on to the kinds of black holes Stellar Black Holes To make a black hole we need to compress enough that, the more mass we throw at it, the only the most violent cosmic events can create neutron stars or when the core of a very massive work with here, we'll use the mass of our sun, The smallest known black hole which works out as a sphere around 16 km Another lightweight black hole is the This star is 24 times larger than our sun, it is thrown around by a tiny black hole the star is so much smaller that we can One of the largest known stellar black holes is solar mass blue giant, bit by bit. As all that like water going down a drain, friction heats 500,000 times brighter than our Sun! And and 92 km wide, just big enough To grow much larger, black holes have to either another. The instruments that make it possible currently discovering a lot of exciting things. a galaxy 17 billion lightyears away. As they spun energy in the form of gravitational waves than the in 4400 years. The new black hole they formed is And here we hit a curious gap in scale. There are lots of black holes up to 150 solar time. Until we suddenly hit black holes, Which is a bit confusing, because we had this and growing. But for the most massive black holes existence today. The universe is simply not to have formed by eating stars and merging with To explain how we got the largest black largest stars that ever existed: Quasi Stars. to the largest stars that exist today. Our We don't know if Quasi Stars actually existed but supercharging black hole development. The idea is that quasi stars could grow to thousands of stars might have been crushed by their own weight while the star was still forming. In contrast to process, inside quasi stars, a deadly balance star together, feeding the black hole and heating radiation pressure kept the star stable. And so able to consume the quasi star for millions of black hole. Black holes several thousand times the These black holes might have become Supermassive black holes So now, we arrive at the kings of our existence. The centers of most galaxies contain a In the Milky Way we have Sagittarius A about 4 million solar masses that is calm and it sits there because we can see a number of stars And despite its incredible only 17 times our sun. Smaller than most giant Because Supermassive black holes are so many people imagine them as being a bit like glues everything else together and forces it into sun makes up 99.86% of all the mass in the solar 0.001% of the mass of their galaxy. The billions bound to them, instead it is the gravitational Many supermassive black holes aren't gentle the clouds of mass in their galaxy. The one at the much material that it produces jets of plasma If Earth were orbiting this huge body, it would and we'd be burnt to a crisp in seconds At this point black holes become so large that The galaxy Cygnus A has a super massive black hole wide, which would mean that if it took the place stretch halfway to the edge of our Solar System. churns its disk into a kind of magnetic funnel, towering over the galaxy, half a million light Another pretty large Super Massive Black has 6.5 billion solar masses and was the Or rather of the glowing gas around This sphere of darkness is so large And yet, there is a scale even Ultramassive black holes Now we reach the most massive black holes, perhaps These black holes have eaten so much that they've gravity the engine for a 'quasar'- an accretion full of stars. So massive that they deserve a The Ultra Massive Black Hole at the center of is so big that it has a Super Massive black hole, orbiting it! This thing defies imagination It can comfortably fit three Solar Let us end this insane competition TON 618, a black hole that we can observe shining with the brightness of a hundred trillion It has an incredible 66 billion solar masses. a week to reach the singularity after Solar Systems could sit inside of it side single body in the universe. But in Since TON 618 is so far away, we only see In any case, black holes are scary and mysterious and gigantic. They will be here after everything So now let us do the trip again. From all the way up to the largest. Let's try something new today, a short behind the scenes bit about the because it's really not actually possible How so? Well, while we have catalogued good data on a couple of dozen black holes. a thing until 50 years ago - and technically We can only derive their properties from studying them, like the orbit of stars that come close black hole, which we can approximate at But this comes with huge Then we have to convert mass to size For example, we calculated the radius from the the sake of simplicity assumes black holes are hole that doesn't really exist. The reality is So some of the black holes we talked about just don't know for sure. We shimmied around with different kinds of values and using at a standardized list that allowed us You can look at all of this in our source doc. As experts we drove crazy with our obsession In this process, tons of stuff the final video - but luckily we We created a lot of black hole merch, spanning the This way we get to explore a topic get to continue having fun with