Hello Infographics fans, it's time for another We're concerned with your hygiene, because the 'go natural' fads out there, you should a good scrub once in a while. As usual though, we want to find out what term, so once more we're tasking our favorite, another awesome challenge, all in the name for a month! For science! Day 1: Ok, I have a confession. I didn't tell the girlfriend about this challenge, well at all. Hygiene is kind of important in a relationship, physically active as we are, but also there's with previous challenges. That would be putting it mildly. Also though there's the fact that she's leaving to be on-location for the next three weeks challenge. This literally couldn't have played out any I think she's been getting suspicious though, challenge assignments to rest and recoup- my girlfriend would single-handedly destroy She's a trained stuntwoman and can box, she's... Anyways, she knows that right around now is and I think she's suspicious that I haven't Maybe I'll just tell her there's a production we obviously don't do these challenges all get to watch these episodes the challenges us- or me I guess- time to do more. So, I'm just not going to say anything until the challenge is over. As usual I did my research and it turns out acne to infections, but turns out that showering as well. That's because your body naturally produces outside infection, and all your vigorous scrubbing getting sick or infections. That's why some health shops sell probiotic while making you smell nice, which by the so stick to real science, not pseudoscience, Just limit how long you shower each day, and soap every time, just do your stinkiest areas- rest with water. Your body will thank you. Of course I won't be allowed to do even that See I've already done the no shower challenge and it was absolutely not pretty. Luckily everybody was in on it as well, so In fact we pretty much just smelled like gunpowder, the opportunity to take what we called 'baby wipes to wipe down our vital areas. By the way, if you know anyone deployed overseas forget about sending cookies or books or anything Your very smelly and grateful military will So I worked a baby shower clause into this to wipe groin, butt, and armpits with baby hygiene in life. For the rest of me though, not a drop of water rains in Los Angeles that's a guarantee you See you in seven days, youtube. Day 7: The girlfriend was definitely suspicious- She left without asking what, if any, challenge smelling a bit ripe when she kissed me goodbye She's been texting me asking what the challenge told her that she didn't want to know. Thankfully she's filming twelve plus hour the issue. It wont surprise anyone for me to say this, It's interesting though, because at first its like your body achieves some sort of smell-equilibrium. A smellibrium. Or maybe I've just gotten use to the smell I've decided that this month the only days take a baby wipe shower, and I realize that's to leave the house and run errands or meet Of course deodorant and cologne go a long doing more handshakes than hugs lately. Not much else to report to be honest. Day 14: My girlfriend's best friend came by She said that she was here to borrow something and just said that she'd been told it was I was immediately suspicious because A) my matter how busy or far away she is, if something my girlfriend really is an evil mastermind, I saw through the transparent ploy, and it around the house as if expecting to find some internet challenge. I am also lucky that today was a baby wipe I sent the girlfriend a text telling her to and I quote: suspicious face emoji. I catch whiffs of myself sometimes when the I mean definitely not good but not awful. I am incredibly itchy though, specially in That's no surprise given that sweat tends by infection if you're not careful. I wonder if my baby wipe showers are going down there. I gotta tell you, I'm feeling pretty gross out of the house. Luckily skype is a thing and I can reschedule Thank you technology. Day 21: Another of the girlfriend's friends I didn't let her in, I just peered out of as she knocked on the door until she quit Even hundreds of miles away, the girlfriend But not nearly sneaky enough. Ok, this is bad. I definitely got a rash in my groin area spreading question continuing with this challenge. I know it's not that big a deal, just really I can't believe that people actually live I miss you, my dear, wonderful shower. I was a fool for years, never appreciating a knob. Loss was my cruel teacher, and every day since how good you were to me, and how little I Please forgive me, shower. I promise to appreciate and adore you, and I think I smell too bad even for the dog, up to me the way he typically does at night. That's a pretty damning turn of events coming from smelling dog butts the first chance he Of course he doesn't smell like a rose either, and will utterly destroy the bathroom unless you, close the doors, and bathe him that way. So turns out this one month no shower challenge for a fact he likes to smell stinky given from rolling around in god knows what at the This rash thing though is definitely going exactly what to do. See my time in the military didn't just teach these situations, and the answer is rubbing It burns like all the seven hells, but wiping layer infection which causes the rash. So tonight, I'm going to set my groin on fire I really, really hope you appreciate what Day 30: Girlfriend came home two days ago honest I think she probably knew the moment I've been banned from sleeping in the bedroom she'd sleep in our bed. Also I had to Febreeze it down completely, me with it liberally and told me I wasn't "This stupid challenge is over and you go I wasn't here for any of this nonsense or She didn't call my job stupid though the way she missed me. She's secretly a huge softy. A terrifying, scheming, evil mastermind of So the rash I had a week ago disappeared thanks pretty sure doesn't count as a shower but your groin with a flamethrower. I did notice red blotches popping up under rash in the making but thankfully today I going away soon. All in all, I definitely don't recommend not make you smell terrible and kind of affect the side effect of me avoiding leaving the When I was a kid my mom used to tell me that and well, mom, this time you might actually Now if you'll excuse me I'm going to enjoy head to toe so I can reclaim my right to sleep A man's home is his kingdom after all, though from my girlfriend. Want to see my do more challenges? Check out our other video, I ate the hottest Thanks for watching and We'll see you next