Loads of languages use accent marks. A flick here a squiggle there a dot or maybe two. Each one helping to make the language easier But why doesn't English have them? Well you know what? English should. And I've come up with a way we can use them. Inspired by other languages near and far I hereby present to you: accents for English. By the way, it's unbelievably cold out here my camera dies. Okay. Anyone who has grappled with English spelling here. If you've learned to read English as a second Because people learning to do so tend to lament They say: "What's with all the silent "Why aren't these vowels pronounced the "How am I supposed to know which bit of And "How do I tell apart two words that Well, with my new regime of accent marks, The aim here is to fix English without the letters. No new characters. See what you make of it and let me know in Let's begin by tackling one of the most letters. I mean, they're everywhere. Some because them. Others because they're a bit hard intentionally put there by show-off scholars of Latin. But how on earth is someone new to the language to be pronounced? Like the B in plumber or L in salmon? There Well this is where an accent - or as they're come in handy. I've searched through other languages that approached this problem. And basically: almost English is infected with a uniquely violent But I did find a little something in Turkish this letter, which is pronounced /g/. But [crickets chirping] It's silent. Now, this letter isn't as pointless as, the word. It changes the sound of the vowel Turkish's G from its silent equivalent is bow is called a breve - a word, which literally adornment for our silent letters in English. wherever they may appear. Not the ones that are part of letter combinations, Like in island or indict. In honour or in Welcome to the English language, the breve. than never starting in the first place. So that's going to go a long way to making English's biggest problem is with its vowels. of them. Spoken English has around 20 vowel sounds - but our alphabet only has these 5 vowels, [click] [Rob off screen] Ah. Oh dear. So it turned out my microphone Something I only discovered after spending off. So I hope you'll excuse me if I do my apartment. Now where was I? Ah yes, the Roman alphabet being rubbish. So like I said, spoken English has around 5 vowels. Or six if you include Y because a fan of borrowed Welsh words and you want But even if we're charitable and say there the most common vowel sound - indeed the most I'm talking about the rather unenthusiastic Now that sound is known as schwa and it is Take the sentence "my brother has a purple It's there, there, there, there, there and U. So how on earth is the unacquainted reader be pronounced as a schwa? Well that is where our next mark comes in. Albanian and the Slavic language of Kashubian /uh/ sound and I think we can do something both of those dots because we're already you're confused, don't worry, I'll explain dots. For English's most common sound I think as possible and what could be simpler than And from now on, I say we should use the overdot a schwa. Like this. Admittedly, for some accents this could get wher sperk lerk thers. Okay, no one speaks like that, but the point schwa a lot more than others. But I'm confident we can find a sensible Now our work here is by no means done. I think English's exhaustingly inconsistent vowels and I think we can do it with help from macron. [Emmanuel Macron:] Moi? [Rob:] No, not you monsieur. [Macron:] Pardon. I mean the little line that you can see here. To find this solution, I haven't actually instead I've travelled back in time, because Now admittedly, the macron wasn't used by Old English but it does appear in modern transcriptions reader when a vowel sound should be long rather when writing out Latin - Classical Latin - or So I propose we use the macron in Modern English long vowelsas well. We can have cost and most; hint and hind; loop if we want! Can you see how that's And before you ask - the macrons won't be using the breves on consonants and the macrons See! I'm not stupid. So please give a warm welcome to macron. [Macron:] Est-ce que c'est moi? [Rob:] No, still not you. Although don't Now, more accents inspired by foreign languages see how others handle stuff like this? You know, my whole interest in English came because it meant that I looked at English reasons why I would recommend that everybody And alIow me to also recommend to you Babbel, Babbel is one of the top language learning learn Spanish because the idea of being able the globe appeals to me enormously. Plus, I have some Spanish friends who I would [Babbel app:] Podemos hacer algo [Rob:] Podemos hacer algo Babbel's great because it has such a wide sessions, podcasts, games and of course, lessons Incluso en el bano. Babbel teaches you using real-world conversations. because you're right away learning sentences Spanish is one of my projects for this year. too? Use my link in the description and get What are we waiting for? Vamos! Now, for our next English fix, I'm taking Specifically this marvellous little marker called an acute accent and it makes reading One of the most magnificent things about Espanol stress - is extremely consistent. Basically, syllable in a word. It's a little bit more it. And when a word breaks that rule, and you syllable, written Spanish gives you a little above the bit that you're actually meant Now I think we should learn from this - because - or emPHAsise, or emphaSISE - can be a bit So I propose we have our own marker for stress. acute accent. For a start, it already appears in some English from French but also, we don't want the space above put all of our new accents up there. Instead on this occasion, I'm going to call No, still not you. This one again. But instead of having it above a letter we're makes sense, right? We already underline things the method used by proofreaders to tell the it. So sticking a line under a syllable to of intuitive. But let's not put it under the entire syllable. and we'll just focus on the relevant vowel. By the way, it can be difficult to find a can just underline it or underscore it too. think we're all good. Let's be sparing with it, but I think this For example, the words channel and canal have both come from this Old French word - but emphasis between them. So let's help readers out by pointing out is caNAL. Actually, that's not the best example, because helpfully we've already pointed out where get what I mean, right. No need to emphasise That was a pun. Now, another common complaint about English lot of words that are spelt the same as one Sometimes they're not just spelt the same, These are called homographs from the Greek These of course do exist in other languages, any ambiguity. For example, in both French and Italian one in both languages there is a word spelt L That's a recipe for confusion, surely? But no one ever gets muddled up because both accent on the latter la so that you can tell French has done the same with ou meaning "or" That diacritic is called a grave and we should difference between mean as in "nasty" "gift" and present as in "here". And while we're at it, what's to stop the same, but are pronounced differently? After all, they still look identical on the Let's take inspiration from Dutch, for example, its words for een and een, both of which which otherwise would be identically written. So I say we do the same with our words bow embarrassingly ordered a my-newt steak - close Now what I've tried to do with these is like they have the more prominent vowel sound. But we can have a conversation about whether suggestions. I think the logic used in French used the least often. I If you've got strong thoughts on that, by And at this point I think we should just stop here. Let's do that by looking at a word I've Or rather: these four. Because these are all different words, but to tell what any of them mean. However, allow far discussed magically make all of that uncertainty First of all, let me add them. There they are. Now let's talk through them. So the first one is present - a gift. The "uh" sound. It's present. The second one is also present, but this time And we can tell it apart from the other present top. The third one is present - like to present syllable. I could have put a schwa dot on the first And finally, what is that last one? What do one. So this one is actually pre-sent, which you but look how I've saved some space. The macron on the first e tells you that it's else because we're giving equal weight to So there we go: four words that once looked Okay, I'm still not done but time for a This time, I don't want to propose anything of something that we already do. Let's talk about diaeresis. No, it's not a kidney treatment or a bowel you find, for example, above the i in naive. This often gets confused with the two dots but actually it's different. An umlaut serves over. But diaeresis serves another purpose. It tells to each other, you sound each of them out sound. It's what makes this na-ive rather than French uses diaeresis much more than we do. for maize is mais. And you find it in French In English, you generally only find it in However, there is one place where you will pages of The New Yorker. Almost since the magazine's inception they instead of writing cooperate just like that that to avoid anyone getting accidentally cooped They use it words like re-elect too so that I like this. It looks better than the hyphen, anyway. We don't normally separate prefixes from pre-fixes, do we? The New Yorker does say that its use of diaeresis But I think it's elegant. Even the eyes of seasoned English speakers Let's at least give non-native speakers I also think the word diaeresis could benefit So I say, let's coop-t it further. Sorry, coopt it further. Now, just before we bask in the full glory to give an honourable mention to a couple time, anyway. Firstly, let's talk about tilde and the Spanish letter enye. Did you know this originally started out life It was used as a way of abbreviating a double And so maybe we should consider a similar Or - as I have advocated in the past - we in words like union, onion or companion. We've just got to find a way of working And I also want to give a shout-out to the space. It's used to turn a c into ch and an s into make too. But as I said up top, when I was still out [Rob outside] It is unbelievably cold out [Rob inside] ...no adding or removing letters go through an existing text with a red pen So let's stick with the six that I've It's time to bring the present doubt using these accents today. I hope you've enjoyed this introduction call for wholesale reform of English orthography. If you did, I think you're going to like Or maybe this one. If you want more juicy language bites from Links below. And I'll see you in the next Goodbye.