Do you want What do you do normally? The voice. You normally do like a little. No, I'm trying to put you in the tennis Didn't hit it. Can I tell you that's probably is that, like you, Yeah, that that is weird. It's really weird. There's no other sport the opposing athletes help each other Hey, can I give you a good rhythm Yeah. I'm like, I'm like, you won't see boxers doing Yeah. Like just like doing a little before you go to each other. This is what now with Trevor Noah. Well, welcome everybody to another episode of What Now? The podcast, where we have with the interesting people I mean, this is always is sit down with somebody who I've got fond memories with, and really just chat about how they see the world, And that person today is the one You probably know him but if you don't, he's widely regarded as the greatest He also gives that accolade who are also some of the greatest But today, we're talking A documentary entitled which is exactly what it sounds like. The 12 final days of Roger Federer's professional playing Thank you so much for joining me Good to see you to have absolute I'm happy to see you again. You know, my tennis partner, man We did it together, a tennis rival. But I mean yeah, but we were Yeah we were in it together. Yeah, That's amazing That was crazy. 52,000 people. I mean, you just started to play. And here you are That was wild. Yeah. My my first and last public tennis Retired as well as my right. Yeah. That's it. Yeah I mean Rafa was your partner. Yeah. How does this work? It's up to you. But if you have any issues ever I mean, so many things. But yeah, we you're probably referring Yeah, man. Congratulations. That was fun at Dartmouth. And, So here I am yeah. a former tennis player, I can't think of many people who You you're one of the most precise You're one of the most like you. You have everything that I think And I mean, like a doctor. Like medical doctor. Everyone that meets you likes you, give you more information Yeah. It's not just sharing you know what I mean? You've got the precision. You've got, like, the memory, I it also seemed like emotional I know a little bit of your story because you were, tennis profession like, the thing for, you know, college Was it a part of life that you maybe And very strange because like you and that part of life is so far Right? I knew that and I mean, so Academics come first You know, tennis, Anyways, so, for you to pursue tennis or a sport in I mean, you're so make sure your grades are good, not going to work out. Oh, wow. And so for us to dive into that you know, that is a very common, since, you know, I made it you know, and it's a thing. And, you can see how much, emotions It can be more then. I mean, I remember I tried hard, and and chased, I remember I did, French, for those because I said, oh, I had to stop it all. Then after, I asked my dad I don't have the discipline and all that stuff. And German and French said, you know, I'll just do I'm better They're like, okay, fine. So then, like two weeks later, like, Just give me a chance And if if tennis really doesn't I'll go straight back to school. I like, Can't you French? No, I can't, I can't I just want to hit the ball. You know, yesterday at Dartmouth, commencement speaker is speaking, they're going to be so bright. They're going to be incredible And, yeah, I feel very humbled. And it's, and and you brought the family Yeah. And everybody came. So it really felt like a, you know, which I had, you know, I mean, in recent years, I've got to So when they asked me, I started preparing because So you seem natural, though, like. Thank you. like, You're not the biggest fan You're not the biggest fan of, Yeah, but I've met few people Like you, it's It's like you, you have this vibe. Like you could be a Swiss James Bond. Yeah. What is that Swiss team's blessing? Yeah, I yeah, I see him showing up. You know, I am saving everything Yes. Very well. You'll be on time. Yeah. That's very on time. Very. You wouldn't blow anything up? No. He would just fix things up. He'd make them better. No, I mean yeah I mean I like being, Yeah. But then also I very much like again So and I think for me most important was always try you know, just being organic myself adapt fine, you know, to stardom You know, that was weird in the very but, I'm happy after this whole, like, 25 years To still feel like I'm actually You know, just. I don't take myself too serious. As you know. And, so then having a conversation, like today, So. I mean, thank you. Why? Why do you think that is, by the way? Like like my dad's Swiss. So I know that Swiss Like, Like, what do you think it is that gave you that little, when we Yeah, we spent most of the day when we were playing the tennis, When when you were launching Your sunglasses. We spent Where do you think you get that from? I mean, it has to be from traveling And people have been surrounded by. I mean, as you know, and you're around good fun people, serious enough I mean, you have a lot of time to just, So that's why From the road. I think then when I speak French, Is, never as good as my English. I still feel like I'm So when I speak French. Oh. I feel like I'm super young still because the, the vocabulary is way is like the the language where I'm Okay. And maybe Swiss-German is how to say the most to me, per se, because that's the language Most precise, of course, It has to be that way. So that's why I think it also has I'm not sure. Yeah, yeah. For this conversation I was trying what would be something that that the listeners would really love, Roger that they may not be able And because on the podcast, what now? What I'm always fascinated by but what that thing that happened So sometimes if it's news That happened. Okay, what now? But with people, because we always meet people and very seldom do we get insight what they're going to do, And then you came up with this, with this documentary film or the 12 I know you fairly decently, and I've been lucky enough but there were there were parts of it and really, you know, revealing. Yeah, I would say, and maybe, maybe that's the first question Were you worried at any point, like, that is following you most illustrious careers that anyone You know, was there a part of you losing the intimacy of that? Totally. And that's why I think the best part of it all was It was just supposed to be to put it away for my children. No way. For my team, for my friends. One one day, like, you know, Because the thing is, I've been, I mean, always happy to but then private is private, you We don't take do home stories. it's just, sort of off limits. And I tried to keep my kids out Of course, that comes in then down the road and of course, But for the most part, I've really tried to keep So when then, well, It was coming to an end. the question was, well, You know, where do I retire? because I knew sort of, you know, my, and you could see the trajectory you know, and some people around me have, at least because I really never wanted Because I said, like, Here I am, trying to prepare open, you name it. You've got all these people around you know, you're tying your shoes and you know they're looking over your shoulder, and then you go you put on the headband, it looks epic, you know, you just want to be focused. So I think it gave I always felt like I really need in my life, So then we decide 02W is RAF? I called RAF at this point if I can just have a camera team knowing that I'm going to be relaxed because then Or if ever there is a life, doc, Yeah. 30 years from now. I actually have some extra footage I mean, there is obviously and maybe some And I allowed some, exhibition matches, like in South Because I just thought, You're relaxed. it's much more, on the fly. Everything. There is no rules. Whereas, you know, and so much history I don't need the extra distraction. Okay. was the Joe Sabia from 73 questions? Oh, yeah. Yeah. So I was like, okay, I need someone I kind of know, cannot be that shows up Yeah. Especially for something You know, it was super intimate if I bring somebody and I'm like, But he has to. Yeah. So we did that. And, you know, days go by, I release, you know, the, the news I read, you know, sort of my, So I didn't know how if it was going to be a video. But I knew because I was going to look at it later and go like, But you know, And then a little tweet because that's not good enough That's not good enough as well. So the crew is there as well. And then as I get ready with the media and all that stuff, the crew is really more just a fly in the wall, And then as the days go by, Joe says, This footage is so sick. It's crazy. I mean, be such a way, such a pity if you don't share this and like, yeah, whatever. I'm trying to cope with my emotions. You're essentially So during a final moments. So it was nuts. And then of course, Joe reaches out to me, to the maybe a couple of weeks later, He goes, look, I just put something 60 minutes, have a look Right. And, he was on zoom. I was watching it at the hotel Cried a couple of times you go through the emotions And I was thinking with America and thinking, is this something that maybe it's just like a snapshot of, like you said, that You know, it's literally like rehab. So for me, going through it Oh, and what in what way? I don't know, because, you know, The end. So I think for me to talk about it again all, it's it's like therapy, But it's, as you know, in the movie, I'm Yeah. So I just hope that the people think. Thank you for letting me see it. So cool. You actually didn't keep it. And so when I hear that people like because it was so hard. the end. I know, I know for a fact because it's it's it's watching a documentary It's it's into a space which is the human side Do you know what I'm saying? When we watched the documentary team mates, arguably the greatest is you and Mirka. I watched the two of you. I've seen you at everything Yeah, just like, you know, chilling in Switzerland the most beautiful synchronized sea Thank you. I've always. I've always wondered what that What do you think it is about me? That. That that enables you to go off What would like what do you And what do you think? You in turn give her as well, a wonderful synergy as human beings. I mean, I think you have to go back when, we got together, pretty much I was young at the time, America career, start to having some heel, And I was struggling I remember she was on crutches, walking all the way through Paris Super tough moments, you know, and Yeah. I think, you know, at the time I mean, how long are you having I thought, like, it's just a surgery. And we get back up on the horse, And then she's doing rehab. Always pain. and then I told about. Why don't you just, I mean, retire, I mean, like, tennis with pain all the time, And I was, you know, to win And she's like, yeah, you're right. You know the let me I'm done. And then wow. And then here we are. Me oh I don't know you know, 3738. You know it's so hard to retire. And I'm thinking of her. She just, You know, it's no problem. I'm like, well, and I'm here. I'm like, to retire and make it so emotional She does too, through my career and the travels and like, being, you know, my rock And she's been incredible, and then first half, and thankfully You know, the second half, you know, that was a whirlwind of a life, And I missed that, to be honest. Like creating that home away like this, creating a corner And then I would jump in and out and read a book and go build, you know, create little corners like, So America has been phenomenal, I also was so hard for her at the end when she could see the suffering that And she's like, I know, who you know who can crush have a good time. If you lose this, no problem. But if he loses, at least But I she could see what I was going So I think we were all super And you know, in the movie as well, she speaks to the which she hasn't done People don't even know her voice, because she's like, she was taking care of the press and I just thought that was you know, your wife or girlfriend and all you say is 99% of the times, Roger So she got a bad rap for that. So then we said like, well, We give it to somebody else and Who knew that she was not going to do And she did one you know, for the for the media. at the end, we just wanted to capture And actually, the beautiful thing was, I think I was actually in the bedroom of the I believe the boys were there, too, And I told them that I was retiring until I read the audio form at home, to tell their their friends, And then it leaked. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And we were crying in the bedroom. She's crying in the front, how much I've meant to meant to her I mean, throughout because it hasn't been easy for her, but, so much fun and we look back We're right after this short break. And one of my favorite moments is where you're sitting in the And I think it's it's, Francis, right? It's like it's for the doubles match and you talking about your knee. And you say, like, half joking, If I knew it was going to be You know what? I'm paraphrasing you. If I knew it was going to be like I would have never gotten into it And, you know, I, I don't think you I do think how much sacrifice goes into a career You know, the time sacrifice of life. When you look at your body now, your mind, your your, Do you ever take stock I really gave a lot to tennis Yeah. And, especially when I see, like, you know, Alcaraz, Zverev. Five sets chasing each other around the corner. I'm like, I did that too. You know I did that yesterday at, I was talking about that, I had to look it up. How many I did there was a lot of tennis, And I. I'm so relieved that I don't have You know, because, but the especially towards the end, you know, the stretching to warm to take a break to Yeah. To then go play, I mean it was a massive, Now you can tell like, It's just tennis. But it's it's your life You tried to perform at your best and you know that And perform in front of people. Just adds that extra pressure. Let's do that again. Like you're out there So I honestly, And I see any athlete at the highest of level, You know, I, I respect them But it almost feels like I don't know, you probably still But no, no, you know what? I actually This know. Yeah. Because it's funny you announced like, your departure as departing from The Daily Show. And I think I can relate There's there's a moment in your life and activity. You know what it's going to be like You know what it's going to be like Actually, Your mind starts to get used to it. And when you step out of it, like you there's but then you start to experience a little, you know, like for me, you know, no tennis one of his Yeah. Now I can just do that. I just go before you had to know what was going I'll never forget this. And in the middle of the dinner a notification came up on my phone. There was breaking news, and I literally stepped away and I went to read, I don't want to not know what this is And now I'm just like a phone off. Yeah, let's see what happens. But I'm I'm sure like that Similar to to me now as well, you know, if I'm with my children I don't really have to think about tomorrow's match, you know, like where all of a sudden I don't know, you're having a good time, so when he goes back and I'm on the phone on the run, Or do I call crosscourt and know, you end up visualizing it, This is. No, this I've always wondered this about about You have memories and you know, Yeah. Talk to me a little bit about that. So you you're going into a match. You know a match is coming up in the, you visualizing and how your opponent plays, playing the match in your head Yes. I mean, yes, absolutely. And, I think some do it, I didn't watch a lot of video, even though towards the end I did, that worked for me how it feels to play an opponent, So how does that match up together How is my opponent played how have we matched up against each you know, Slow court. So all of that matters. How do I feel that week? The things I've been doing Yeah. have Have I been playing more safe? am I carrying an injury or not? How do I feel? And then especially against, the most against, you know, Like, for pattern, Right? And that's okay, it's very clear what he wants. It's very clear what I want. You know, the question is like, are we is or we just going to say like, okay, He might not have a best day. So obviously there's And then you got to decide Or do we like And that's where like a skier, Yes. We see saying to before, like if he goes, cross court, do I have to go back, the needle up the line? Or do I take charge and say, like, break it up? But then does it look like an escape from me You know, and then all this also, came in towards the end of my career, make your, Yeah. How how do you feel about that? Because this is something that I've, across all disciplines. You know, I remember sitting with, like, and, and Syria in football, in soccer So back in the day this is how you should move. This is what you should do And now a coach goes, no, when that player gets the ball, You come down, When that player gets the ball, because 70% of the time they're going That's 82% of the time across this 23% of the time if you press them But that's coming as well. And with tennis I've heard that now they give players like a book Yeah, these are the percentage odds for what your opponent doing in these types of situations, how do you get that in your head? So that's the thing. I am very much the the guy who, Okay, I believe that. I don't know, playing attacking tennis, attacking, breaking down So obviously not all the time and try to break it. I know you have to open it up through the forehand, so and then obviously you can hit it hard into the backhand corner, Slice it short, long. You do all these things. And then when let's say the the most important moments then ask your opponent you've been massaging so many times that he has these his doubts that he all those different types Let's just say, yeah, yeah, now and then, you know, you thought you think it and you have a game plan. Then of course, and all the strength But in my I just focus almost on my own game and I'll figure it out Then, like you said, and then you would hear that he would hit 73% chance So now what do you do. Do you say like well obviously I'm Or do you say like well He knows that I know. So I know he knows. And then he actually burns you up So you just so that's where I have I just go with the feeling of how the last game went Was he making the last serves? Was he going for it? And I just go with the intuition. So that part I enjoyed less Yeah, so specific. Like a formula one car everything. So everything becomes predictable. Yeah. Let me, let me ask you this on you know, do you hearing you talk about this makes me think of how you can apply this Now, you know, in, in society, is that it looks backwards. It doesn't look forwards, you know, Ergo it will happen as opposed new, you can change the data. You know, in relationships, They go like sometimes you go like, oh, Oh, she doesn't care. This is like, well, to assume something about somebody's And it's interesting because everyone and a fan of you is always gone. It feels like you're flowing. It feels like you. It feels like you're walking through. It feels like you have this idea, I wonder that there isn't tennis because that brain, it's not like It's not like it branches turns off. So what's what's Roger Or do you get to rest that I have the feeling maybe like you of a holding position, Okay. I have retired Where were we? Let's pause This is your resting phase. I mean, resting phase, as in, Yeah. Roger, no one's going to pull you out. No, this is your resting phase, yo. Okay. Let's let's. Okay. Let's go launching a sunglasses All right. Continuing to, like, blow up one of the fastest Right? Which is on traveling around Still would like as a Rolex of tennis, releasing a documentary This is your resting face. Well, I feel like this. I say it I was very strong with my wife all our vacations super early. Okay? So nobody can say like, oh, by the way, Okay. And I'm like, yeah, I'm in Vietnam right now, you know, or I'll be in Bangkok. I'll be, So I really protected my schedule. I feel at a very good level I'm really happy we did that. I told you, we were just from Asia, from an amazing trip Before that, we were in Japan, we had a wonderful Christmas I really, really looked forward while still on tours without the stress or actually play another match there. And it's also, you say this to do that, And then, like you said, that all of a sudden came about, because I wanted them so badly. Yeah. I mean, on So I go to the offices I just signed with on that. So that's been so cool, by the way, that that story is amazing Like Zendaya is easily the stratosphere of her career. You know, everything But I also love the connection she just put out the movie challenges It's all about tennis. But what's interesting, the serendipity of how some things seems like it's about tennis, It just happens in the world And it's really a movie it's really a movie It's a movie about pressure. You know what I mean? And in that movie in, in the movie Zendaya's if you haven't watched it, just skip Zendaya's character, is probably going to be the best She suffers an injury. She can't play her role And and it's all about this. And there were some people who said, this sort of reminds me of like Roger And and then the very directors. But the director came out and said, Said he was fascinated Yeah. The 2019 Wimbledon finals. Wimbledon was on. Yeah. You're on the court And that's They always go from from player to coach. Right. And it's such a tennis thing or baseball or football, Yeah, right. Don't What now after this. It feels like you've brought your precision, and your joy out of tennis And that that is a sports brand. I know you're really thoughtful And you know why you do so I I've been lucky enough like, feel you moving through space. Like when were in the train station, This, this. Do you apply that to yourself Like, do you feel that you have you know, maybe an obligation but I can't think of a better one identity, to represent Switzerland, I think we are proud of our Swiss with precision and. Well, and, when, you know, and something, it's supposed to be done to a level that, can bring it to. And maybe, you know, Italy clothes, or Japan when that, you know really special. And I think the Swiss angle has You know, we're very proud of it. Like with our, you know, and, and mountains you know, we're very proud of it you know, when we did So yeah. but on an individual level, though, Like in the early Swiss. okay. This is the way I've perceived it, you know, having family members in Switzerland it's like Swiss hey, don't stick out too much. We're all doing this thing. And so in many ways, So at the beginning it was funny. Like I didn't feel like, yeah, sure. I'm proud to represent Switzerland and it's a game. Switzerland, you know, like, say in the Davis Cup or Olympics But, you know, I feel like, yeah, sure, I represent but never to the extent towards when I really started feeling They were very excited for me. And every year that went by the more important it was for me the right way, Yeah, we're subdued about it. We're not like, let's not make a big And honestly, they, you know, it's hard you know, like shells and come like, say like, I know he's good. And when maybe I'm not around, he's amazing. You. So that's been amazing to see. What's funny is most of them They always say, Roger that. I love the most. Genuinely, everywhere and the like I could see. And then like, Like. Yeah, with Roger. We love Roger. How he's but they also Roger, which I think is a testament and I've always tried I've done media as well, just to say, Regulatory save time and stuff. But I always knew I love the kind of So it's been it's been great, right? So let's talk a little bit about, you know, you enjoying this You know, just being able to try everything Knowing there's no You just like wake up the way You posted a video on Instagram Oh right. And golfing. So again, have you played golf much? I know I wouldn't say I've played I'll say if I hit a golf ball I don't think what I, what I did I also don't get it I really I loved learning tennis Good I enjoy it. Yeah. Golf I never, you know. But you posted the video. Yeah. And is this what. So first of all, Because it was flawless. No it I know it looked good, But those those balls, you know, they have a way to, to slide over, Oh my God. But, no, I've played throughout my, Okay, okay. And then, but never to the extent Yeah, yeah. Henman and other players, you know, Every chance. Yeah. they would go out on the game and me, eight years or so, You know what I, my, They like to go out. So then I was like, start golf if my wife start into it Yeah, this just takes me to too much time out I'm too busy. And anyway, my knee, it was crazy. So I was like, So now in December, I was in Dubai. I was like, why don't I, like, how it is, maybe a lesson, I don't know, Yeah, but obviously I was still very. I'm still at the moment, And I'll never forget I take my golf coach. She tells me, a golf pro he tells me, when you stand over I mean, I hope it goes straight, I mean, when you think of something I don't know what else He goes like Because, to think about normally, your backswing impact So I'm like, okay, just thinking I will be straight I stand over the ball and I tell him I you know what, Here I am lining up It's not relaxed anymore. I'm not even thinking about where I just want the back swing to be okay and the impact And it's wild Yeah. And you know, you stand there so effortless. And tennis It's like we would be tinkering I mean of course you get nuts. You know, just, You get to go like, no, let's just And every adjustment has a So anyway what I And then especially everybody and everything. And I just really thought you know I know that maybe through golf I could be out there I can always be out there, have some some fun golf events join, and I could play So why not take some lessons? And that's Let's let's talk a little bit about, of, of, of I think is one of the main pillars of, You can't watch this, and not think about you know, the final 12 days of, of your career, one of the scenes that is probably going to cry when they is watching you and and and the team and you're saying goodbye And everyone has cried. You know, you've taken center stage and and Rafa's crying and you walking and then Rafa goes off because he's still crying This maybe is something that that I think a beautiful testament to you, look at relationships There is no greater rival Yeah. You know, this is the person another Grand Slam, another great But you and Rafa, you know, head to head all the time. You wouldn't think in most stories that the person Would be your number one And yet it seems like It seems like it was a competition. Tell me a little bit and how you were still able at the highest level Beat them, have them beat you, but then still have that love So I think what I like take tennis but we can also take Novak or Maria But let's say take Rafa, to come of 25 years or 15, whatever. It's long. A lot of matches, a lot of You know, you You don't like him, then you don't like his team, and then they have a problem He said something. And, you know, but actually there's mutual respect And then to come out at the end of high five, that that was cool, And you know what? Can't wait to Or hopefully down the road and be on a and we'll look back and go like, and I said that as well speech yesterday, for making me better and showing me my flaws, you know, Not just a tennis player, So I think this last 12 days, we're going to see, coming out as a whole, because I think a lot of time we, as a coach or a father you have to be, you have, and you got to take him down And you know, And you got to show everybody. And you can be the nicest. And so and like, yeah, I get it. But it's just tennis come on let's be friendly And we can do it in a good way, I always call it, you know. So I think that moment, Like you we come into the locker room, for me to also ended up being this, this costar in this movie, And I just wanted to let them know, at the time I just wanted to let them know. Thank you for being here. Thank you for I hope, you know how much that you guys were all here even though at the time they didn't know Maybe. Yeah, yeah, you'd have to ask them if they how happy And I think Rafa maybe in particular So emotional. Yeah. So crazy. Just wanted to like I'll play doubles with you and be great you know, a tad emotional at the end, I think we nobody knew because I think there was this beauty we had this moment and right our careers especially for them Like, we are so fortunate. I think all of us, that we are living We're so fortunate to still be going, hopefully, you know, no, I mean, hopefully Murray can play And he still has the hunger. Rafa knew that he was in a tough spot as well, as much as possible. They're one of their big rivals and seeing that live in slow motion And it was tough. And that's why I think the movie is going to be really beautiful And I hope actually in many ways great athletes or not so great, a glimpse into the retirement moment Maybe a formula one driver, how they retire, on that final stretch at a young age, you know, something years old, you know, I know I had the chance So I think everybody does it So I think, like you said, there's these beautiful moments super raw, super, But it was it's again, I know we're a team at the labor but still, for me to be able was actually at the press conference if you remember where I talk about where I grabbed the mic one more time and I just had to say it Here I am sitting was, and Kasper and Mateo and, And I'm just saying how happy I am And it's not like Rafa or Novak or Andy, but actually, I go because I am five, and, I hear what you're saying. It would have been painful for me So I was supposed to be going first? Yeah, I had a career without them and they should have won So I just felt it was important for them to hear that. And I just thought it was a for me, You can see it. However, then when I walk out oh God, this was a brutal press But, you know, So we're we're almost there. We're almost done. So, so, When you have that kind of supports, that camaraderie, like where do you Because while tennis it also gave you something It gave you something Where do you search for that now? So I'm happy that we always kept throughout the world, I always have my roots down. I think that I can really thank Especially to always keep in touch Yeah, And when players ask me for advice you mentor them sometimes I always tell them, you know, remember because one day or your career is over, What are you going to come home to, That's it, a house, or an apartment has no friends It's going to be it's It's not a home. Yeah. So I feel like that's That's why I was talking about like, Maybe it's not a real break, so annoyed is I actually bought going to birthday parties, going Yeah. And actually catching up with that, their time now because they invested I know they love the trip and then come watch a game of me And so but they still took their vacation, me play. And I now return the favor by going, a lot of my friends. And I feel like I get quite a lot of energy Well, Roger, the question that I love to ask everybody on And it could apply to everything. It could apply to anything. I'm selfishly curious about Is the what now for, When we first sat down like this was literally Yeah. Of the Daily Show. That's right. You know second last. Yeah. Second, Yeah. No, I think you were the last. You might have been How did that feel for you. The like the and then did you also So yeah I actually So this is the way I think. And I would love to know I think any ending that is good should leave you with a little bit Yeah. Any ending that that is good. Anything that has ended should have you just yearning You know, when I was, I wasn't like, good riddance. There's a part of me going and we'll be good to continue maybe I should just a little bit But I think that's what it should be. If you're leaving anything a career in sport and you're like, then I argue, it's too late. Yes, yes. You've overstayed. Yeah. You know. So And then just like you, you know, there was there's a whole period really do much in those strikes Oh yeah. And then we won the Emmy So it was like, we got to come back And it's like, you know, Being in the space but not being in the space You get to feel new emotions. Yeah. Yeah. You're super distant but like exactly Now it's like you get to live Yeah. So I guess like. Yeah. What now for you as, as Roger sky's the limit. Yeah. So what now? I think I'm still in the search mode. I'm not exactly sure Yeah, I've been trying to like before, protect the schedule You know, boys are ten girls a 14. It's a big deal. Right now. I feel like it's an important time Help them. So going through the schedule, with the kids, making sure we do Well, right. I think it's, And then while we do that, of course, try to have fun with other projects You mentioned so many. We're also working you know, that comes out a table, a cup of coffee table Okay. launch so I'm looking forward to that. And then I think as we move forward, I think I will know more, because I feel like I'm still enjoy ourselves, and take that on. So that's going to be a definitely, so pretty laid back, you know, always see what is the tennis space problem is or you are a, journalist Yeah. And I just don't see myself because I just don't have the time, Next to being there for my children. So, so really a bit of a transition And I think, it's a good spot It's a great spot. It's a great spot. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And whereas I feel like maybe nine months ago, I just felt like maybe know what it was I did. I was I supposed to go there? I feel like where everywhere I go I feel like I'm happy to be there. That's amazing man. Well, great. Roger, congratulations again. You know, and then thank you I do think it's it's all sides of a career it's such a such a wonderful way. So, this is really great. Thank you. Love being on the podcast. Well, I happy for you too, Thank you. What now with Trevor in partnership with Day The show is executive produced by Trevor Noah, Ben Winston, Our senior producer is Jeff Hackel, Oh, our producers. Music Thank you so much for listening. Join me next Thursday