The Atlantic winds blow a country where the rich, fertile, to an exceptional wildlife. This country is France. You're about to see it as never before. Where are these cranes heading They are crossing a land since the dawn of time, France. The animals that live here Some challenge one another and fight. Others help each other passing on their knowledge They can lie, pretend, and even cheat. They can be cruel. They travel vast distances They choose partners for life Some men look out for them. Some even form alliances with them. From the highest mountaintops these are the secrets An epic voyage Wild France. Our story begins Deep in the forest, He has just fallen Nature whispers its first instruction, &quot;Don't let anyone see you.&quot; His first hours are crucial. If a predator finds him, it's over. Perhaps, Sleep. Slowly build up the strength. No. The will to live is too strong. Now try to find his balance. Nature is so well-prepared the fawn has found the answer. The answer, and his mother. She can't stay near him too long. They are too visible. A quick signal Wait until she returns. Wait to grow up. One day, He's a young fawn, and he has his whole life ahead of him. A wall of mountains 300 km long rises up at the border the Jura. As the name suggests, it was formed 200 million years ago, when dinosaurs still roamed the planet. Once submerged today it is covered The first man here hunted mammoths Then farmers tried their luck here and stayed. This kingdom is ruled a creature of legend, the lynx. Legendary, yet fragile, in the 20th century, the lynx disappeared. It is now making a comeback A handful of men watch over them. Stefan Regazzoni is one such man. He has surveyed the mountains He studies how they live. Last spring, Stefan found a mother's den, a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. There were three cubs, Have they survived? They should be grown up by now. His mission is to find them again. Not an easy task. Lynxes are the most secretive animals, most active at twilight. They rarely leave a trace The lynx often lies in wait, hiding and waiting for its prey It prefers, though, following without making and catching them It hides away its victims and comes back Stefan has just entered When you're looking for a lynx, Stefan senses he's being watched. She's protecting her cubs. It means they're still alive. That's where they're hiding. Only two of them. One must have died. Through play, Their mother is watching over them. She knows he's here. Here they have everything they need Soon she'll bring them along to hunt. When they can fend for themselves, they'll leave The lynx has once again returned. In the forest of France lives a giant that has watched men pass beneath the oak. The oak arrived but how did he make the journey? That's one It lives and provides services Some have built their homes in it. Some feed off the bark. Some eat the leaves and some eat those that eat the leaves. Some feed on its roots and others on its fruit, acorns. The oak's main problem under its shade. Where they land, Among its inhabitants, one little animal without even realizing it. Every autumn, As soon as the acorns are ripe, The most important thing is so no one can steal them, but there are spies everywhere. Another lost acorn. All his neighbors are thieves. They watch him come and go, trying to find Why him? The big nose didn't see anything. He must have seen it. This time he won't have his treasure. It was right there. No, there. Maybe here. This seems like a good place. Better go a bit further. He won't follow this far away. The big noses are lazy. That's right. The acorn is safe and one of nature's wonders Over the next few weeks, our squirrel will bury thousands Sometimes he will travel to find a good hiding place. The oak's great fortune lies When winter arrives, but he won't remember half of them. The oak will benefit greatly as the following spring, the squirrel's forgotten fruits and, in turn, That's how these immovable giants From southern Italy, the oak has managed In the west of the country, a strong headland rises up a granite peninsula caressed The horizon for many travelers. A paradise for so many creatures. From here, Here they returned and built the cities of their dreams. We are in Brittany. Pushed by the wind Water and land have lived side by side A very long time ago, life left the depth of the ocean Deep down, Every year here, an incredible story In spring, the cliffs welcome an animal from distant northern lands, A flying penguin capable diving to depths of 180 m, The guillemot They nest on the cliffs of the cape To stop them from rolling the guillemot eggs are pear-shaped. If they roll, they come back. Clever. For one of them, The chick is now three weeks old. His parents hatched him, Now the moment has come and head out to sea. His parents know Alone. Into the void. Get him to jump. Call him How? He can't fly. The only option is to jump. Impossible, but he has to. They call again and again. Further away, The big beaks are there. Many young birds don't make it to the sea. Now it's his turn. They've seen him. He ignores his parents Does he know This is it. He can do it. His parents are there. Now he can leave. He'll be back next spring with a mate The sea doesn't just attract animals. Many men and women That is the case For the last 20 years, she has been forming a close friendship Ambassadors are dolphins for closer contact Some individuals go They seem Frederica believes they are messengers. Every year she has a rendezvous Donnie. Today, she has decided Adelie hasn't seen Donnie The time has come The encounter She knows The dolphin reminds us of our inner child, our life force, joy. She says that you have to become one half asleep, half awake, in a semi-conscious state. Donnie helps her reconnect He decides when he wants to leave, maybe to find his fellow dolphins. Do these messengers Perhaps we will find out when Donnie returns. This peaceful world can be transformed How can anything possibly survive On our coasts, one mammal has decided It is an animal The seal is a wonder of evolution. To live in these extreme conditions, First, it takes in very little air but stores oxygen Then it slows its heart rate Finally, it drops the temperature concentrating body heat Our mammal has one obsession in life, doing nothing More than anything, The young have no respect Better find another spot. Nothing will stop him Floating does have its benefits, rocking gently, opening his nostrils Really though, the best naps are to be had In his colony the worthiest have their spot. Here are the females Best not to disturb him. A rock just below the low tide will do. The advantage? It's easy to get on. The best position here Beware, Through them, Complete bliss. When the tide rises, Now for a change, Seals spend 15 hours a day sleeping. The rest of the time, In central France, the Loire. Over time, it has carved out the curves Its many rivers and streams for thousands of years. One of them we think we know well, but its private life is more surprising This young pair of swans They're looking for a quiet place Under the arches they can finally be together With swans, though, everything must be done correctly. She's a virtuous maiden and won't grant a suitor favor Seduction in a thousand ways. They synchronize their movements A few weeks later, From their love, three chicks are born two white and one gray. It may mean nothing, but the gray was born Swans can swim from birth With their first steps, two white and one gray. Is it because of his color or his late hatching? For now, The first lesson, learn to eat. The best way is by observing. How does she do it? To reach their favorite food, The little ones are still lacking and these delicacies are out of reach. At last, they feed off the treats Under their parent's wings, the two whites Their fluffy dawn will turn one day They have four months to learn to fly, to strengthen their wings, and become birds. It's September. The chicks have grown Under the watchful gaze of their parents, The two whites are the first to try. There they go. Gone. They will never come back. Now for the gray. The white pair managed it. Why not him? Does he want to stay In the swan world, the young have to leave It's a matter of life and death. The father attacks his son. Fear made him fly. How do his parents feel now Are they proud or relieved? Their mission is accomplished. Their only duty white or gray. As for him, he'll soon find a group It is October, and for one inhabitant it's time to find a winter shelter. This morning, where he will sleep the old stump Hedgehog is blind as a bat. To get around, The stump is on the other side of the park First, he must cross Diana's Garden. This park is looked after by a gardener For the benefit Gregoir's gardening methods By introducing lace wings he can remove a large number of aphids, reinforcements In order to spend Hedgehog must feast now. Today's menu: snails, leaf-wrapped slugs, Where have they gone? This morning, the slimy delicacies Not there either. Who is behind this shortage? Gregoir has a recipe He adorns his patch He plants them here and there. It does the trick. Hedgehog uses the smell that live under his 7000 spines. For insecticide, natural and very effective. Today he faces an unexpected invasion, a slug attack. Gregoir has found the answer: Hedgehog. A feast and just in time. Gregoir would like Hedgehog but his spiky friend has other plans. Behind Catherine's Garden, he is finally in his winter garden. He scratches the ground It's ready. Adapting ourselves to nature Gregoir says nature looked after itself In order to sleep Hedgehog can adjust his body temperature and keep it just three degrees as if the whole world is balanced Another globetrotter awakes to begin a great journey. He often lives nearby and hibernates Here lives Mr. Toad and tonight is his big night. An irresistible force calls him from several kilometers away He has to get there but how can he resist the taste He hasn't eaten for six months. Delicious. He's off again. What's this journey for? To find a mate, for at this journey's end Mr. Toad is not alone. Just like him, hundreds of suitors have awoken tonight They're all heading Some males have found hanging on the back of a female. Female toads are larger than the males. Do or die. Everyone will meet at the pond, but there are often more males If only he could find one Never mind. Here, the humans have built a towpath safer but busier. Tonight, hundreds of amphibians Not all will make it. Mr. Toad is resigned to traveling alone. If he wants a mate, There it is, the pond where he was born. Now to find his princess. There she is. Those golden eyes and that skin. Mr. Toad is thrilled. The two lovers will spend several days Mrs. Toad will lay 7000 eggs in the water, and Mr. Toad, Then Mr. Toad will return alone. Every year in February, millions of amphibians If you see them on the road, Love is calling them. To the south of the Loire, the Massif Central slopes gently down in the bends of the Auvergne, In this area of hills and plateaus, men have built thousands They have redrawn the landscape Here lives a mysterious animal Its agility is as famed as its discretion. This golden eyed creature Where is she going so early this morning? This panther-like animal came over Domesticated by lords it soon became a favorite at court. This elegant and useful companion It protected against the plague and so it took its place a place which has since been taken the cat. She continues to stalk Her favorite prey are mice As in the past, she has been drawn her rival's territory. Cats are lazy Why did they become the favorites? She chose freedom and discomfort Though she may be unwelcome, an inferior hunter won't stop her The genet sees and hears everything. She lies hidden As a hunter, In the time of kings, The tomcat has sensed her and will chase her out. Quicker above With her appetites satisfied, she offers the imposter a punishment This is the genet's life now. She refuses human company. Even if she comes hunting she always returns We preferred the cat. Well, she chose her way of life. In the southeast of France is Provence. Two ancient mountain ranges plunge the Maurs and the Esteril. In summer, a scrubland of green oaks It's the perfect environment Tortoise's priority of the day Unlike us, She seeks the sun's warmth. To be at her best, Her lizard cousin has the same aim, to bask in the sun, This is their sundeck. Now, stay still. Warming every part of their bodies. This morning, however, Tortoise is invincible. She fears nothing and no one, except him, the fearsome enemy the tortoise's worst nightmare. Daniel Manzo, Canadair's pilot, commanding officer of Marseille-Provence. A fire started in the Maures. Immediate response. Two aircraft are in operation. Tortoise knows but the fire is much faster Lake Saint Croix loads six tons of water The temperature rises. In a few minutes, in her own shell. She can't go on. This is the end. Tortoise came here She succeeded. Now she has to get it back down. Hermann's tortoises have lived exclusively for millions of years. Many of them perish in forest fires. It's one of the reasons The heart of Provence lies in the hills a land of fragrance and color, a landscape whose famous light and whose warmth is a joy Provence could tell a thousand stories, though none is more astonishing of a pitiful, slithering creature This story takes place The wild fennel is home the flamboyant swallowtail From the start, the odds are against The swallowtail's color cries out, poison. The moth's camouflage Still, on the ground, carnivorous ants. This formidable hunter has no mercy In order to become Butterfly, Swallowtail Moth who has changed color along the way One goes up high. The other stays low. Swallowtail attaches itself Moth sleeps on the ground, hardens, and forms a pupa. Swallowtail becomes a chrysalis. Ten days later, Today, their lives will change. They inflate and break their cocoons. They unfurl their wings and let them dry, drawing in the sun's energy. Suddenly, the moth is ready. Now it's Swallowtail's turn. She has grace, but no control. With wings the hummingbird hawk-moth Being able to hover, it is the only one to feed The swallowtail's large wings but difficult to maneuver. The two companions are reunited and its delicious nectar. The verbena will keep the two friends busy Then they will depart The animals do not always have In some places, This is the case for two legendary rivals, the crow, and the fox. The Crow family home. This morning, to teach his daughter Her first lesson of the day Well, it was her first attempt. The vixen lives in the same area To feed all these mouths, Mother Fox is trapped between her den Master Crow knows this well and sees an opportunity First of all, find her den. This is a chance to show his daughter Master Crow can eat anything, but he particularly enjoys It's a good trick, Here is Master Crow delighted When it comes to trickery, crows are experts. The vixen is on her hunting ground. The trick is to get her attention and play the injured bird. Mother Fox knows He pulls her as far as possible The young crow understands the trick. She refuses to share. Another lesson she'll have to learn. Master Crow has deceived Mother Fox, but she'll get her own back soon enough. The crow and the fox are always trying Their rivalry is centuries old. It may be that flatterers thrive but remember, little cubs, that a bird in the hand In the southwest lies Aquitaine, and natural spaces It is November. A family of cranes is heading south The family consists of a father, Mademoiselle. This year, she has to choose the one the rest of her life. Finding a good husband won't be easy. They have come from Sweden across France in two days. They fly day and night, exchanging calls They know exactly where they're going. Every feature below them is fixed Rivers, villages, It is a huge effort, and Mademoiselle, is at her limit. It can't be far. They're already crossing paths Argiesans with its lakes, moors, wheat fields, and wonderful roosts. They have come from all Baltic lands, Fifty thousand cranes congregate here The site used to be a lignite mine, It was closed ten years ago, Then the cranes came and found the site, So much so Mademoiselle's family has chosen a roost You might think the cranes would gather the Swedes with Swedes, Not at all. They love to mingle and meet up Mademoiselle's family settled down Lithuanian, Elegant and well-mannered, She is not an easy catch. Among the suitors are widowers and immature youths She is not interested. She has the whole winter Time for a rest. With a head under a wing, With her feet in the water, Life in Argiesans waking up, chatting, grooming, and more chatting. Mademoiselle uses this time She doesn't like these ones. At about 8:00, Near the roofs The leftovers from the harvest are plenty Today's menu is all-you-can-eat, but Mademoiselle has lost her appetite. There he is, young and definitely single. This is it. They are hypnotized As with swans, They spend time He offers her pebbles and plants. She offers him Courtship will last several weeks, and they will get to know Mademoiselle has finally They will remain together In the spring, they will head back north For cranes, At the union of the Pyrenees lies a magnificent land, the Basque Country. A colorful land of soft, rolling hills. Just a stone's throw in an area known as Espelette, a story unchanged continues to play out. In these mountains, a small primitive breed of horse Pottoks live in harems and their foals The herd in the lowland is led Her stallion, Sometimes, without warning, All his fillies are pregnant. None of them accepts his advances. It's impossible He wants new females In these parts, there have always been two herds White Mane was born in the Highlands There are many mares, but they belong to a powerful stallion for eight years. Black Mane is wise and tolerant, He lets them wander wherever they like. Life in the Highlands This calm won't last. White Mane only has one thought, to challenge the Highland stallion, to take one or two of his females Desire runs through his veins. Black Mane isn't as young as he was. He's counting on his strength He doesn't realize This morning he feels the world is his. White Mane is consumed by his desire, and he wants a female now. Black Mane has seen him. Combat is unavoidable. The son has the upper hand Black Mane attacks the ligaments If he cuts them, White Mane will die. The young stallion retreats. White Mane doesn't fear wind or rain, but he must bow to his father. He will have to be content with his herd and wait until the spring One day, he'll return to the Highlands and defeat Black Mane. Legend says that the rhythm inspired traditional Basque music. The pottoks continue on the mountains The deeper we go into the Pyrenees, The terrain gets deeper, Bears have been reintroduced here Their return means a rebirth that have practically disappeared. When the first shepherds they formed an unlikely alliance, a unique arrangement of dog, Little Patou was born only a few days ago. This is a crucial moment in his life. Will he be accepted? Will he adapt? He must hear and smell the sheep That's it. Patou has been adopted. Even though his predatory instinct he will start to believe A lamb. The same goes For the young Patou, He will stay near his mother Soon the time will come The services of a young Patou Patou is now eight weeks old. He is about to meet the group his flock. First, the matron. It should be fine. What about her deputies? That's another matter. To them, he is an intruder. It will take some time He will live with them and will finally begin his great adventure up in the summer pastures where the bear reigns. It's June. The flocks are making the journey Christian is a shepherd. He will spend four months in one in the Pyrenees. He's accompanied by his sheepdog, a border collie, Young Patou accompanies his flock He doesn't yet understand his job, he's just enjoying They come from many valleys, In all, Christian will be responsible Young Patou creates a protective zone He is ready to ward off any intruder, wild animals, but he has never seen a bear. Christian was chosen Last summer saw the loss of 150 sheep, and three particularly tenacious bears. That's why he's been chosen Christian became a shepherd spending a season He chose the job out of love the sheep, and freedom. He's ready Though, bad weather, the shepherd's sworn enemy The Patou is a perfect ally though Christian knows They must remain untamed The four flocks have arrived. He can count them There are four Patous He is the youngest. He tries to make friends straight away, but the elders aren't interested. He'll have to learn on his own. When night falls on the mountain, the shepherd Now, the Patou keeps guard. This morning, There is nothing worse Off to find them, immediately. Young Patou smells something unfamiliar. The Patous' mission when the shepherd isn't there. Thanks to them, there are ten times fewer deadly attacks Christian has found the missing sheep. He has no idea of the bravery This is how life goes climbing hills, breathing in the wind, The young Patou will fulfill his role Even though the alliance between man If you come across Patous, respect their work. Go around them and if you can't, then turn back. In the Jura, The fawn still follows his mother. He wants to be big but his instinct tells him The oak still trusts the squirrel Hedgehog has found a girlfriend. He would like her to wake up. The good days The seal has found a calm spot Master Crow and his daughter Mr. Toad can't find his stump. Someone must have moved it. Unbelievable. Little Gray has turned white and has found company. Young Patou is no longer a novice. He's even won the acceptance The young lynxes have left home. Their mother is now looking It's the season of love. White Mane is sure the mares The moment has come. Mademoiselle and her companion take flight They will mate and give birth to a new generation. The crane's departure signals Next winter they will return with their little ones.