(Speaker:) Careful handwork. Selected materials from Italy - precisely coordinated and individually mixed together. Finally designed by hand. What comes out of it should inspire generations. There is also terrazzo in my father's house, which was built in 1900 . It is indestructible and still looks beautiful after almost 120 years. (Mechanical noises) There aren't many people left who know how to cast real terrazzo. The Saarland family business Hess has orders from the Kunstpalast in Dusseldorf to a large brewery in Munich. Hi, welcome. You will see this construction site in Thuringia for the first time today. We'll start in the kitchen. - Yes. This is the area where the terrazzo should go. Up to the back to the connection where the foil is located. - Yes. A total of 35 square meters should be designed. Yes, that fits, great. Then of course the entrance area. Yes. First. And in the back area there is also the small toilet. Excellent. The Italian word terrazzo simply means "flooring". Peter Hess , a master tiler, specialized in this years ago. Son Normann learned to lay terrazzo in Italy. With mixing master Markus Bick, they will produce the desired mixture over the next two days and apply it to the floor. They bring specially made samples and their experience. With black Terrazzi, we advise against making them completely black. If you travel to Italy, you will notice that you will not find black terrazzo among the Italians. The reason for this is that... Black terraces tend to generate color differences. They are made with white cement. There are segregations. And for this reason we recommend that we add white grain. I'll just demonstrate it here. (Susann:) Yes, a little less would be good. - A little less. Exactly. With this homogeneous mixture, the dark terrazzo looks much better than if it was just mixed black. Now you can go and say, okay, let's mix in one or two yellow grains. You can decide that. How we would like it in there too. - Exactly. I'll distribute it here. We would really like it that way. - Excellent. We can sprinkle this in according to customer requirements. That's what's special. We can still decide how to design it until shortly before installation . A plan was drawn up in advance with the builder Susann Brachmann and an architect. The dark border in the kitchen and hallway should then be 30 centimeters wide and 15 centimeters wide in the guest toilet . So that the fitted kitchen does not cover the border later, it must be correspondingly wider there. Following the example of a classic German terrazzo floor, the interior will be filled with light terrazzo. And light and dark are neatly separated by a delicate mosaic border. In the past, they created a mortar bed for the mosaic tape on site and inserted the stones individually - a complex process. They now produce matching strips in their home workshop in Sankt Wendel. We pre-cut profiles and then stick the mosaic on top using a hybrid adhesive. And so we save a lot of time and money. Following the historical example, they use "Bianco Carrara". The marble stones were prefabricated by a colleague in Rome, in the historical format of 1.6 by 1.6 centimeters. What many people don't know is that the mosaic band has actually always been arranged as a natural expansion joint. This has a technical background. This means that if the terrazzo gets stressed and cracks, it will tear past the mosaic strips. As a demarcation between the rooms and as a finish at the entrance door Brass rails are laid. Brass because it is almost as hard as the terrazzo later and can then be sanded easily. So now you put in a sack of this, a sack of that and these two. - Yes. Let that mix once and then we add white. Let's start with the mixture for the dark border. To do this, marble gravel with the illustrious name "Nero Ebano" in coarse and fine grain sizes is first put into the so-called compulsory mixer. Then a bucket of black sand. Peter Hess uses his experience and his eye to judge how much &quot;Bianco Verona&quot;, i.e. white stones, goes directly into the mix . (Silent) (Loud mixing noises) A lot is still possible. And right up until the end, the customer can have a say about how much white there should be in the dark floor. Take it off. (Quietly) This is how the white is now - is that enough or more? Nope. That's good. - Okay, okay. We continue with black iron oxide. This colors the mass even darker. There is always sand - black and white in different proportions. And finally white cement. That's the main component. It holds the whole thing together and ensures that the floor is particularly hard. One more thing... The right level of humidity is crucial. It's like a good dough. This doesn't just work according to the recipe. When it comes to calculating and measuring, one thing plays a role: mainly experience. So when it comes to measuring, it doesn't always work that way because the grain size varies in dryness. Sometimes she is wetter. That's why you always do it based on your feeling. And we have the feeling that we know exactly: That's how he has to be. Before the dark mixture can be applied for the border , the screed must be watered well. A mixture of cement and a special liquid ensures that the terrazzo bonds firmly to the subsurface. What exactly this so-called adhesive bridge consists of is a trade secret. The floor will be created section by section. The individual work steps are repeated and must be precisely coordinated with one another. You can only apply as much as can be done quickly. Nothing should dry there. And what is finished is not allowed to be entered afterwards. It will take a day just to gradually work the dark terrazzo mass into the kitchen, guest toilet and hallway. Of course, the floor must be absolutely level. Peter Hess will also review this again and again, section by section. (Crackling) (Grinding) (Clacking) And the covering has to be kept moist again and again. A smoothing blade is used for even distribution and smoothing . New terrazzo mass is constantly being produced outside. Portion wise. Otherwise it would dry out before application. As we have seen, the agreed white content was added in advance. The &quot;Giallo Sienna&quot;, the yellow stones that will later be seen as a scatter, should be distributed with a practiced hand. You can't correct anything anymore. Once they have been incorporated into the dark mass, it will stay that way for generations. In this way, the desired border is created gradually and in turn in each room . When everything is ready, the whole thing has to harden overnight. Do Not Enter. The next day it's time to mix the light terrazzo mass. The stones all come from Lombardy. This time the &quot;Bianco Verona&quot;, i.e. the white marble gravel, comes into the mixer first, in coarse and fine grain sizes. (rustling, clanking) Then "Giallo Sienna". The yellow stones that were just scattered in the dark mass. Again, precisely calculated quantities are mixed with experience and a sense of proportion. (Tinny clatter) Good thing. Yes Perfect. - That's good. Further. Now add sand again. And finally white cement. This should by no means be quick cement. Otherwise the soil could eventually become porous and dissolve. And you have to add water again and again, in different amounts, until it's just right. The mixture for the light interior area of the terrazzo floor is distributed in wheelbarrows. Of course, here too, only as much as can be processed directly. In the end, they will have poured 31 wheelbarrows or 217 five-liter buckets onto the entire floor, covering the 35 square meters of living space. That's more than a ton. (Scraping noise) Section by section is produced again. They will need another day to cover the entire bright area . Terrazzo floors have existed since ancient times. Brick and ceramic pieces were also recycled there. The hard-wearing and decorative covering experienced its heyday in the palazzi of the Italian Renaissance. Around 1900 it found its way into German homes, like that of the local client's father. The industrially manufactured panels that were often laid in public buildings from the 1950s onwards have nothing to do with the craftsmanship here. The terrazzo craft has been an intangible cultural heritage since 2017. (Grinding noise) This time dark mosaic stones are scattered on the mass, which will later appear bright . &quot;Verde Alpi&quot;. Again they are distributed by hand. And again they can no longer be corrected once they have been worked in with the smoothing blade. Gradually the entire interior surface will be designed like this. And of course it has to look the same everywhere. The terrazzo mixture must always be the same. And to make sure nothing goes wrong, they even have a bad weather device on their mixer. Here is the umbrella holder. This is actually a special design for us. Um... On the one hand, the engine can be damaged by the effects of rain. And for the mixture it would be twice as bad. This can lead to color changes because the water-cement value is no longer correct. In fact, that would be a disaster. But everything still looks good. After the kitchen and guest toilet, the hallway is finally completed. Until everything disappears under monotonous gray. It's not really possible for laypeople to imagine what the outcome will be. Now when we're done here, we're going to make the ground moist. It is then covered with PE film so that it can dry out very slowly. Otherwise the terrazzo will crack. Drying out very slowly means that the plastic film must remain on for at least ten days. And no one is allowed to step on the fresh area for at least the next twelve hours . Wait, go over there first. That you see it. Just no drafts now. Or even a dehumidifier. This could even cause spider web-like cracks. And don't put any strain on the floor. Then there shouldn't be any unpleasant surprises two weeks later. So. Everything seems to be fine. Yes. Looks good. - Looks good. No crack, nothing, everything good. The entire floor will soon be sanded wet. The walls have to be protected. This time, in addition to the tried and tested team, son Raffael and grinding technician Leon Kerkling are also there. A new machine is intended to replace the old one and will be used for the first time today. Different diamond segments are used for the cut. The color indicates how hard each is. Different, so-called grain levels are used. Let's start with grain level one. The rough sanding is intended to bring out the desired look of the terrazzo. Three passes are planned for this. (Hammering) During wet sanding, the pores are repeatedly rinsed out. This means the ground has better contact with the diamond tools. And they also get flushed out again and again. Experience has shown that this leads to the best possible result. (Low humming) The floor was covered to dry for 14 days. Today is something like the moment of truth. What is hidden under the gray layer? Now it remains to be seen whether the classic terrazzo floor based on the historical model will come out as planned. You could no longer correct the color and pattern. Just rip it out. Looks pretty good. It's not that bad for the first run, yes. Do you have to sand the mosaic down? Yes, it's always a little surprise when you do the first touches. Whether the mixture turned out the way you imagined it would. It's always a little surprise bag. Inside you know it turned out well, but it's still a surprise. Now we continue with several diamond cuts to expose the entire grain so that it looks even. Here you can also see cloud formations where the grain cross section has not yet been fully reached. It takes another day until the desired look is achieved everywhere . This rough grinding with diamond segments of different hardness is the main work. Only when this has been done thoroughly can you later polish with plastic segments. (High whirring sound) The water that has accumulated from wet grinding is carefully sucked off again and again. The edges have to be processed separately; the big machine can't reach them. There are still many grinding grooves in the ground. (Shrill grinding) Raffael Hess is currently making his masters as a stone and terrazzo manufacturer. He always sands the outermost two centimeters exactly along the edge. The work here is dry, but the small machine is equipped with grinding elements of the same quality as the large one. With each pass you should see fewer scratches. After the third diamond, as you can now see here, there should no longer be any coarse grinding grooves. This is important. And now it is important that you... The area must now be vacuumed clean because you still have small open pores here. Here, such holes. And then the floor is filled with a filler and a spatula and treated again with lithium silicate so that it can harden overnight. (Huring) So: vacuum really thoroughly, just so that the holes are cleanly exposed. And then seal it with the filler. (Metallic clinking) Later the terrazzo will be sure-footed and abrasion-resistant and without any fumes. Once everything has been carefully filled, the treatment with lithium silicate ensures that the floor hardens again with the closed pores. The preparation solidifies surfaces and seals them, making them more resistant to moisture. (Air hisses.) Then you have to wait again until the whole thing is hard enough to be sanded easily. We continue the next day. The next steps are the polishing. This is done with so-called plastic segments and the floor slowly becomes more and more shiny. You could now polish until the floor shines with a mirror-like shine, but here satin matt is desired. OK. (Huring) We're sanding wet now too. Three more rounds are planned for this. Step by step, the terrazzo floor is exposed and given the desired look. (Continuous whirring in the background) The edge is again processed with a hand machine, this time wet, in order to see exactly the sanding marks that still need to be polished out. Anyone who learns to lay terrazzo should not only have technical talent. What is important in any case is a good eye, hence the glasses, a lot of patience and tact. You have to know the material. You feel with your hands, you perceive visually, but also physically with your hand. If your hand and eyes are satisfied, you can clean it properly again. Now the result is visible. (High whirring sound) The expert will explain to us in a moment how easy it is to maintain the almost seamless natural stone floor in the future . In any case, acidic products should be avoided. When Normann Hess has finished cleaning, it's time to wait again. On the kitchen furniture. Only when the kitchen unit, built-in cupboards and kitchen island are in place will he impregnate the remaining areas. (Clacking) (Distant conversation) Two months later, Normann Hess comes back to Romhild in Thuringia. Now the terrazzo layer from Saarland can take another look at the finished floor and check it with his fingertips. There is no permanently installed furniture in the hallway. The kitchen is built in. I'm very satisfied. The floor has no damage. It looks good. The grain is completely ground out. You have a nice look, a nice feel. And now the next step is protection, i.e. waterproofing. Even afterwards you should remove red wine, for example, or tomato juice within 20 minutes. But basically the soil is pretty indestructible. This is a mineral impregnation. It is hydrophobic. This means that the floor, the natural stone, can breathe. Is a stain stopper and protects against oil entry. Which is particularly important here in the kitchen. The whole thing has to work for half an hour. Then comes the very last act. Here we have a so-called diamond pad. And we now polish the surface with this diamond pad. This means that the polymers in the impregnation react to heat and friction. And this creates a beautiful, even shine. However, it shouldn't be too shiny, although a matt floor is rougher and more likely to collect dirt. (Deep humming) But Susann Brachmann wanted terrazzo like the one in her father's house, which was still beautiful a century later. Did it turn out the way she imagined? It turned out 100 percent as we imagined. We are totally happy with how it looks. Not only from the quality of the product itself, but also from the work. Every time we open the door we enjoy the sight. On average, such a floor costs between 250 and 280 euros per square meter . But that always depends on the journey. But it's hard to break. Terrazzo like this is what is called sustainable these days. And it is extremely easy to keep clean. Proper care is important for terrazzo floors, as with all natural stone floors . The care starts from day one, now with completion. Then it is important to clean more often at the beginning, with a stone soap that we give the customer. And you can later follow the rhythm... I would wipe through once a week. The impregnation makes it very easy to maintain. And then the floor always stays beautiful. 100 year guarantee. So future generations should also enjoy it on this classic terrazzo floor. Light inside with yellow sprinkles, framed by mosaic ribbon and dark border. Polished to a satin finish. Are you as fascinated by craftsmanship as we are? Then subscribe to the channel now and never miss an episode. SWR 2023