-Don't shout at me like that. -You know you [...] wrong? -No, I wasn't [?] wrong. -Pier, come here. If the floor, if the if the floor has water on Here on the channel, we're no stranger I've covered it four times on the channel and I realized I haven't even touched Wife Swap so I figured now would be a Of course, most of you know the gist with this the first week they follow the rules set by they implement their own rules and while this most households, Wife Swap has a knack for opposite ends of the spectrum of insanity Wife Swap UK is no exception. It's - it's I was not prepared for how intense this episode swearing on these shows. You know that - that's was quite intense. I had to break it up into -Meet the Jones family. Karen and Brian have been together for six years and live Of course, every episode starts off in what is scientifically proven to making them smile at the camera for -And live in Norfolk with Karen's 11-year-old twins Jordan and Pia, Also, I want to throw this out there video you think that I'm being too just know I'm not. He deserves -Meet the Williams family. Sharon and Paul in Rochdale with Sharon's kids; 19-year-old Oh, you know they ripped Leon away from his PS2 for me, I was forced to watch this on Tubi there did not seem to be subtitles available that when you get British people mumbling, it -Brian lays the rules down in this house and There's no gift with him. Absolutely -I am in charge because I have a vision. I Right off the bat? holy shit... I don't think of shit than kicking your feet up, smoking a Very quickly, we learn how this house is ran. in the house and basically barks orders Nobody allowed in certain areas of the rug, He wants all the glasses facing a certain no kids in the kitchen when food is being cooked, of it and at first, I thought maybe he would at all day so he wants to come home and relax but -But you have to cut about -But despite five years of Brian still doesn't think that -Rules are rules. Once they're put -By the end of this episode, you're going to and the Swap in question would be swapping instead. Then we move on to the punishments -There are different methods of punishment -Give me twenty-five jumping jacks. -I will try to make it painful that -Ready? Down... There's a number of different punishments no TV, cigarette burns, stuff like that. -I don't like the punishment exercising -When you get punished, whose fault is it? -Us... And as I mentioned before, he is a dad/stepdad not only is he strict and smokes in the house that and he's the only American in the house. started banging your mom, smoking inside, -He's just very - everything is a high in the - as I don't. I think you know, if you're very boot camp around here sometimes. You're we are very separated. And it is very much me Well, so far the most healthy dynamic -The only thing - all I want to gain I'm not lazy. I'm not useless, I'm Seeing Karen say all of this almost makes me feel as bad as I did for that one daughter -Richard and Ricky are hanging out together -Karen... So after that very upsetting we're going to move on to the Williams family. Sharon Williams moved into her boyfriend Paul's house six months ago. She and her -I'm in charge because I've got kids And similarly to the first family we've got her three kids, and her boyfriend Paul. Now, this is the family where subtitles for. I really - I'd really had -Sharon's outspoken, very demanding. A lot of the time with Paul but especially They're at that point in their lives where they to the point where American TV audiences can -This is our house so therefore, not just your way which is what you're trying -I don't control everything, I just do... -You're trying to. -I have the last say. -Now, the dynamic in this household is where Sharon is the one in charge and Paul is -Sharon's number one priority is her The main difference being Sharon smokes in the house so, it could be worse, right? -Can I have my brew? -I have to make sure it's got two tea bags in it, -I need some more sugar in it. -Mom... I love how people in the UK like to make fun of then you got this fuckin' kid like &quot;Uh, I'll take if that's not Mountain Dew Code Red in a mug. somewhere he does feel in charge is the That's his one break from this hellscape he the kids.... well, they don't quite -Boring dancing is for gays. -Paul says he does dancing man would just go to the gym or something.... -Paul's young and he's still learning. Paul's just sitting there like &quot;Fuck Alright, so we've got two very various degrees and it sounds like the TV show that is designed in a lab to cause I don't know what is the worst band-aid for inspectors because you're grieving your loss Now, one thing that I... [Phone ringing] Yello... Oh, hi.... It's John Merch. Yeah? Right now? If you say so. Well guys, it's about time for me to tell you probably know but if you haven't, I dropped or here on my channel. We've got the diner the Chris James hat. Go check 'em out. Let wear it, post it, I'll share it. So, go pick -I'm quite glad to be leaving Brian at -Yeah, I fuckin' bet. Jesus Christ. -[Inaudible] going to be obnoxious do because he'll definitely come their own color. That's why they tend Yeah, that sounds like Karen -So, I think I've been sent Now, as the wives arrive at their new home, detailed, laminated template for not the showrunners writing their -He'll make them squat as if sitting in I want to strangle him already and Now that the wives have got a chance has been reading off the last 9 minutes of the -Hello. -I'm Leon. -Hello, Leon. -James. -Hello, James. -Hello. -Nice to meet you. -You must be... -Brandon. Hi, Brandon. -Hi. -Thank you, Kingsla. Come -And even though it's Karen's Paul's going out, leaving -That is an actual dance class you take? - Yeah. Ballet. -Bye bye. &quot;Oh, you're going to go ballroom [Laughter] What the fuck? -Is that okay? Perfect? -Yes, I can tell by the color. Maybe at the end of this, maybe I'll learn something but I Now, it's the next morning when Sharon has to does where we really see Brian just being -Brian's not happy. -Uh, I think we've had a breakdown. give me a wake up call in the morning. Apparently he needs a wake up call alarm that goes off but seemingly can come out and complain that he did -Sharon... -Yes... -Could you come here for a second? -Yes. -I'm shaving right here... -Yes. -Could you remember my location I would lose my shit if someone just started in the house and told me to vacuum it up Now, back at the other family we No wonder these kids don't respect -Oh, thank you. Morning... -Now with a bit more sugar in it. -A little bit more sugar. Okay. Me when my mom brings out my morning cherry Pepsi -Do you think that Leon and Olivia speak to him -It's not that - they're not going to -They - they're not even going -They've tried. -As an adult? -They - they try with him but he'll normally he'd argue with him like kids. You What!? Checking back at the other we get some insight on how the kids feel -I think that's a bit... -Cuz you're just going to wear it -I feel sorry for Brian because she night time. We do offer to help her Brian's clothes and she doesn't want Less than enthusiastic about it which like being their stepdad. There must be -Paul gets back after a day's work to So now Karen is trying to help Paul he can discipline the kids and -Can I sit down please? -Can you go upstairs and play -Why? -Sit down and I'll sit down and all of But of course he gives up because they're I don't know what else he could times more and she's been there for he did have to confront what looked like seven see why he wasn't bursting at the seams with to clean the place and it is a team effort Brian is doing arguably the most important Also, as you can imagine, Brian is not -I can see that she is trying but the tomorrow will be a day where you vacuum -What does fluffing mean? -The fluff brush is here underneath this table. &quot;Brian, I'm so bad at this and you do such maybe you should do it. Since you're -When I go and stand on that, it -Okay, you won't be standing Back at the other house which - this show show I cover. So, I'm going to stop prefacing it. One of the kids comes home past curfew and -At the moment, while she's in this house, you're under my care while your mom's not here. Well, he does about as good of and we get this riveting response from the kid. -I do what I want. -You grounded. It's as simple -You can literally stop me that's the only way you're And you may be thinking &quot;Chris, I don't And you know what? Neither do I. But -I've just grounded Leon -You're not grounding him. -I am going to. -You're not grounding him. -If you can literally stop me from getting out this house... I won't go out Oh, I can stop you alright... with a dance. -If anyone's going to ground -Karen's grounded him as -No he's not. -Yes he is. Right, you can -Far from staying calm, Paul -You've just checked James out. -I actually think this would be an because I would love to see that piece -While Brian's checking that four-year-old -Ready? Turn. -Wrong child. I was about to send my son to school God... Damn it. That sounded so sharp. -In Rochdale, the whole family has trip. But tensions between Paul Now, I am absolutely not throwing shade at fun but it's hilarious seeing these kids being participate in probably one of the most majestic -There's even a row over -He was telling me to move up. He's giving me Can I ask why Paul isn't sitting just make the most sense in the first place? -He sat there but I said move -I got out of the car so you -What the hell did he just say? Damn you Tubi for not having subtitles and also -Paul could be rather pity and have moved no more than it would have car but he's an adult. If he wants to be I mean, haven't we seen countless examples of just telling him to fuck off like they have no -Do you want anything? Do you, Brian? I just seen the way Brian inspects his looking for problems like, -Is this what you do at home? I mean we got children that can slip and fall. I mean... -The floor's wet? Where's the floor wet? -I tell you what, if you can't see that shit then, I don't - I can't tell you Look, I know I swear a lot. Okay, I'm not against he does it? Maybe it's because he's dropping stinks so much worse when he does it. Like was about to send my son to school Doesn't that just pierce your about at that part in the episode where and I have not seen an interaction -If I slip on that floor, it's my fault. -Pier, come here. Can you go -Because she came over... -No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And Brian does what any good moment like this and drag your kid into -So therefore, the children have enough okay? So, what you just said was the children -But it's not... Mind I remind you, this all started because kitchen and Brian was not happy with the -Don't shout at me like that. - Because you was [....] wrong. -No, I wasn't wrong. -Pier, come here. If the floor, if the if the floor has water on It doesn't even matter that kid isn't in in all of this. He's still yelling in her -Yes. -Thank you. Alright? Take In the fact that she doesn't even is very worrying because she is used to this. -She's going to say yeah because she's not going to want to upset you. I'm -Uh, yeah, yeah, yeah. I tell you for me right now for the whole [....] Sharon's right. Like what do you said no. Do you think you would I guess I was wrong on this one. I'm going to -You know, I'm not one of your children. -No, no you don't have to be one [Inaudible] -Don't you come up with that bullshit. [?] -I asked her a yes or no question. It's baffling, the contrast of him sitting the kitchen not five minutes ago yelling no and then went on to say &quot;I didn't It was a yes or no question. It was that argument or a fight at all. I was -But no, she had to go the long way around and then that's what happens when I usually try not to pass too much judgement on nature of reality shows are to paint every person but with Brian, I feel comfortable saying he good person. I don't think I've ever flat - like -Let him see tomorrow when he has to conform. scream orders in his face like he has done God I love this boo ass recording of Wife Swap would normally cut to a commercial break. So now, new rules onto the household for the next week. And as usual, it's basically the opposite of makes Brian do all the cleaning, prohibits and allows the kids to play in the living At the other house, Leon gets a new curfew and else I think is more fun stuff like Paul having to accompany Paul to go ballroom what goes on in that household from here on -Brian? -Yes. -Can you please take that plate away. If -Okay. Is there anything else -No, you're not a jumping jack... going to be Brian... Brian... I'm -Please take that away, Brian. -And that's it. -Well, if there's anything else, I'll call you. -No, you ain't going to call me right away. It is laughable. How hypocritical the him from not 15 minutes ago doing the exact thing, not only to your wife's swap wife -Karen... -In the Williams House, Paul struggling -Phone away please, we're at the table. -Get off my phone now... -Olivia, please. As you can expect, not much changes with Paul what's new? But back with Brian and Sharon, -What do you think about the rug going? -Um, a bit more relaxed in here now because with And just like what we see in one, if not all of the kids love this is great. This is... This is the -By the time the children start playing -Hey, don't lose track of reality now. You got it? -Brian, you should have come to me I was coming in. Can you please assume -No, because I did not... No, because I -Go on. -I can do it right there. See? -You need to do the squat. -I'm not getting disciplined -You need to do the squat. No... Alright. I never try to comment too harshly because - mainly because I've always felt that piece of shit, you making a public comment about of other people with said physical attributes. So, god damn, this man walks like he's Like he's walking down the aisle -[Inaudible] then you'll be sorry. Get off. -Get off of me, get off of me now. [Crosstalk] -You want a chocolate? -Yeah, I do. -You deserve em'. Alright, I know whatever English candy enough to warrant that altercation we and crisps. It's a bag of dried trout It's always like the worst thing you've &quot;yeah, I also eat it with baked beans.&quot; -Just one day into the new regime and Brian's -You smoked in the bathroom. -Prove it. God, once again. What a piece of shit. -Prove it. I mean, we literally just saw wait I - I shit my fuckin' -I don't even do that. No. -There was a cigarette butt in the toilet. -[Takes a deep breath] -[?] No. Him doing that little anger management more frightening than the yelling. Luckily, the situation finally starts to calm down and -I don't want to hear it. I lying. You're lying. You're lying. You're [Crosstalk] No I don't lie. You have come back you will be punished. -No. [Laughter] Classic Chris James lie as I directly lied to your face like that and after months of not doing so. So, it feels -Deal with Jack. -I will deal with you when I get back, Brian. -You ain't going to deal with Jack? -Whether you like it or not, I will deal with you. -Later, keep on thinking -Since she ain't got no proof, without proof, I can't be found guilty in -Just one day into the new regime and Brian's Now, as I mentioned before, the kids end up they hate the way he dresses even though I've not dresses versus the way that they do but it is I know? But it's one of those nice moments that where they actually have a good time bonding -If we can do one whole day without any argument, any - any fuss, tomorrow's going to be bit easier and I think it'll be well on the Now, even though things are going a the same cannot be said about Brian like it is this time. I'm - I'm not Yeah, things could - could be going much better. -You can't follow one simple rule not to smoke. Also, is it not insane how protective smokes in that room all night? Like that nothing but yellow sludge would drip off. -Oh, gross. That is the face of a smacked ass Sorry, I love that phrase, &quot;That is the face of -Now that Paul's got some straight to be seen out with him. They're even -I'm going to try but it's still atrocious. Imagine Paul walks in here and he is just king &quot;Hey Paul, what's up man?&quot; Like where they go to Grain 'n Simple and -Hey, guys. -Hey Chris. -Thank you all for coming. Thank you. -I enjoyed this a lot. -Okay, it was - it was fun fun. -It wasn't as bad as I thought it'd be, anyway. -So you guys ballroom dancing isn't so bad It's nice having this pleasant break in -If you hoover the living room and dust the -To go out with [?] tonight? -And quit - yeah yeah. -Alright. And it turns out all it takes kids was to get a little bit and bribe them to do chores. Only took him -If [Inaudible], which he always has done, at the end of the day, my parenting skills, how wrong. If anything, he needs to look at his own what I'm doing and the respect I've earned I smell a much needed divorce coming I think he's just one of the worst people I've for that man in general. I hope he owes on his -I mean, do you like living in filth? -No. -Disarray? -No. -He's saying that now. I can hear what on like an idiot basically and saying to the kids, &quot;Do you think that's right?&quot; The kids are going Man, things seem to just keep and Paul and only getting -Hello. -Hello, you - you alright? -Hello. You're in on time. -No, I'm coming home for a bit. -You proved you can actually do it. -Thank you, Leon. -Thank you, Leon. -Alright. -You've done me proud tonight. Paul has, if just temporarily, gained the respect of Sharon's kids and -And I'm glad I have because not only have I my home, I'm constantly being told that I'm lazy, that I'm useless, that I'm -Don't let him get you down. -I'm not going to. And I hope that sticks when she I'll be the first to admit that I was things start to actually get -But how will Karen feel when she that you've not kept your end of the bargain? -Why am I worried about what she's that she don't know nothing about? If Oh my god. Wow. Yeah, I thought it was a bit of it was just too delicious of a temptation -Unable to get Brian to stick to her rules, -I'm really going to miss you. -Thank you for everything. -Gonna miss you so much. I'm -See ya. -Bye. Damn it, it is upsetting seeing how sad the kids they're saying &quot;Oh yeah, it was - it was nice you.&quot; They're like &quot;I will miss you so fuckin' -Bye. -Get over here. Also the fear in that girl's eyes when Brian Sharon is leaving early so will Karen. They stay on this episode of Wife Swap. Can he look flowers? Holy shit... One thing is for certain, -What the fuck have [?] you done to you there? But now that they've reunited, it's time for the couples to meet face -Your biggest problem is her and They can't just go what? Like 20 minutes, of course, during this conversation, there everything that Sharon has to say about Brian, -But they doing thing, you know, do this and not wanting Brian to shout -It's because they don't want to upset me? -No, they don't. They don't want to upset you and -It's true. Everything you're saying is true. And Brian, hearing all of this... Seething. -Everything. -[Crosstalk] -Brian, can I just interrupt this? Brian... -No, everybody's interrupting speak. That's what the fuck I don't understand. -I've not said anything at all yet. -Okay. No, you have it but Yeah, Brian, you're really showing us in real time why everyone maybe doesn't -You got to treat her with such -You've grinded her down and gotten her head and -I agree. -What's wrong with that? Gee, I don't know, like -You get to the point where you begin to Brian is grinding those molars I suppose we did cover some ground... A very pile on Brian for most of it but I would -I appreciate you. I appreciate you. I do and -That would be nice. And so after that less than productive reunited and we skip a week to see -I think he's still in shock -And the new Karen's insisting -Okay, take a break. I'll - I'll do it. I imagine that's not Brian being courteous. doing it right like, &quot;Oh, you're not uh, know what? Why don't you take a break. I'll -Listen to Karen more because now she's got Well, we were on the right track and then you but now let's check in with Sharon and Paul, of things for most of the episode and let's -I left Paul and I've just I'm living now and because it just wasn't right. -That was fast, wow! Only - only took her a week. How much of that decision do you -Paul was in the wrong for the way So she left Paul and now Paul is just stuck with not, maybe not the couple I would have wanted -In the future I want to find someone who's going to be ideal and Ohh, God wow, what a doozy this episode was. session into two sessions because watching it guys did enjoy me covering it. If you did, as follow me on my other social medias. If you forget to check out my merch. You can find it on being said, thank you so much for watching