See how you're walking along and they offer you... Look at this is seafood casserole, guaranteed seven dusts. Seven dusts? Seven guaranteed powder, beautiful doll. Welcome, welcome to another edition of Luisillo, El Gordillo. We are once again in Colombia, a beautiful country well known for its rumba, its music and of course, its delicious gastronomy. In this video we will visit three of the most emblematic cities of the territory and we will be amazed by some of its street recipes. Of course, we will give heavy to the fattening. We start with Cartagena, La Heroica, a city that is in its tourist boom, much talked about for its beautiful beaches. I love the architecture, the people here are very tasty, very cheerful. Undoubtedly, we have a great adventure ahead of us. Come on, Colombia and its tasty streets are waiting for us. Let's hit it. It is said that the most traditional and delicious thing in Cartagena is its seafood. And they do not hesitate to let you know it, as soon as you leave the airport, you will find this famous cebicheria called Jiret. See, literally here is the airport, that's the Control Tower. This was inaugurated before the airport. How do you think? Yes, sir. The airport was inaugurated in 'seventy-eight and here it was in 'seventy-five. Do you think they put the airport here because they knew the seafood restaurant was popular? Well, my friend... Sure, yeah. Sure, logical. Yes, of course. They said that when you get off the plane, you should know what's good. Here come the pilots and everything. What is the most popular thing here? What is the most delicious thing? Well, everything is good, but what always goes ahead is the shrimp. That's the one you recommend. That's the one that takes the cake. The spoiled one. Yes, ma'am. Well, I'm going to follow the boss's recommendation. I ordered the shrimp classic. I told him with everything, even with spicy. Very tasty. It tastes and smells very fresh. What is that? I imagine they fish it here around the corner, they bring it to you. No, no, it's delicious. We've just come to the Basurto market. Wow! It's so lively. Lots of people, lots of atmosphere. Everyone is very friendly. They serve a lot of food, you can find clothes, even th e dress for the quinceanera. See how you walk by and they offer... Cresca, seafood sole, seven powder guaranteed, seven. Seven? Seven guaranteed powder, beautiful doll. Seafood sole, my love, with vitafermero, macho macho, rompechiquito. This you put it donkey doll so that it has turn in the stick. In this place, here, in the Basuto sector, I am forty-four years old, from downtown to here. And being here, I am twenty-four years old. Rosa, the beautiful, the monkey. She dances, jumps and jumps. Sugar, Manuel. I ordered a seafood rice and lobster. It looks good, well prepared, because the lobster comes with shrimp. And all this for eighty zero, which is about twenty dollars. Eating this delicious and so cheap should be illegal. Come on, let's have a bite to eat. Look at how tasty this is proportional to how sweaty my face is. Here you eat well and it has a very special charm to be here eating surrounded by people. You can hear the music, you can hear the bubble. In general, a great reception, good, nice and cheap. After such a swallowing, they brought me to this place called the portal of sweets that is inside the walled city. The architecture here is quite divine and it itself feels very cheerful. In the street you can see the famous palenqueras, which are an intangible heritage of the culture of Colombia. And in this street you can find all kinds of typical sweets. Here we have cocada, we have joy, tamarind, sesame. Are Cartagena's sweets the most delicious in Colombia? In the whole world. Which is your favorite of these? In particular, I really like the cocada from Arequipa and the one from Maracuya. Well, come on, I'll have to try them. For fourteen zero I bought this delicious assortment that has everything. No man, what a delight. Well, Cartagena, what a delight, what recipes, what warm people. Let's go to the next one. What a genius. Thank you for that. Now it's Medellin's turn, Medallo, the beautiful mountain city. The paisas boast some of the richest recipes in the country. Let's see, let's ask what's tasty here. Funny how here the churros are round, they are like donuts. This presentation is unusual for me. I'm from Mexico, there the churro has a more phallic shape. And here they are like donuts, like doughnuts. How much do you sell an order for? three five hundred y four thousand. How many do you include? Thirty. What do you sweeten them with? Arequipe, milk or sugar. Recipes worthy of Luisillo el Gordillo. Mr. Ubeimar, you are a master. They are delicious. Here they also prepare the famous mugre potatoes. They receive this name for two reasons. One, because it is a potato that you take out of the ground, so it is all earthy, all dirty. And two, because as they are street potatoes, it is often said that they are exposed to the dirt of the city, papas mugre. For three thousand, five hundred pesos, a little less than a dollar, one can buy a small plate which is seasoned to taste and is something that the paisas boast a lot about. Actually, I started very young, I started when I was fifteen years old. Now, by the grace of God, in June we are going to celebrate twenty-two years working in this business. It gives me a feeling. See the technique Edwin has here to cut the potatoes. Polo, he's an artist! Can I try it? Yes, sure. Let's see if I don't cut myself, let's see if I don't come out with... With a frog ballad of meat. Luisillo's skin. He hadn't seen me. It's going very well. I'm not going to dare to do it with the speed that master Edwin does it. But... But you can have the technique. I'll buy my creole potatoes. What do you recommend to put on it, Edwin? What do people put on it? Lemon, pink sauce and tomato sauce. Edwin, you're a master. All right, brother. They tell me this man is very famous in Medellin for selling a fruit called Chontaduro, which is known to have aphrodisiac properties. Every day this gentleman stands here on the street with his car, sets up his little monkey toy, his advertising, his multiple vitamins and it is reported that he has made a big difference in the fertility figures of Medellin. I just made that up, but maybe it's true. Look how popular they are. This one comes from Choco. When it ends in Choco, it comes from Putumayo, Buenaventura, Cartago. Is it true that it is an aphrodisiac? It is an aphrodisiac and it is from the Pacific. I was struck by these vitamins that you see here that say fast erection. It is a very powerful vitamin for very good sexual relations. This is vitafer. What will that do for me? That makes you corcoviar. That's very good. This is so you don't have any problems. And this is LKone hundred and eighty. No, only with the little drawing I already understood that it is powerful. Mero macho. Also, this is already a cocktail of... I'm going to go exploding through the streets, I'm going to go... But like this, look. Here, Don Chonta is a good salesman, that is to say, he lowers his hand. He has already sold us a juice for almost thirty,zero baros. Thank you, Don Chonta, thank you. With pleasure. Well, come on, let's shake him, let's go inside. I thought it was going to taste more medicinal, but no, no, it's good, it's sweet, the honey made a big stop. You know, if you want to get here like a bull, come with the boss in Patio Bonito, on Las Vegas Avenue. Something extremely famous in the region of Antioquia is the Mondongo. Basically a soup, a broth made from the guts of cows. And I came to this super traditional place called Ajiacos y Mondongos, which for thirty-two years have fed the paisas and even have the approval of Fernando Botero himself. His autograph is here, as well as his photograph and a message for Don German, which says: Don German, fantastic el Mondongo. And look at how our brotherly Botero knows how to make the chubby ones. For thirty-six about nine dollars, they brought me this dish that is accompanied with a banana, avocado, lemon, arepa, tomato sauce and rice to taste. Probechito, it goes inside. Mixed feelings about Mondongo. It is a very good definition of slimy, but tasty. It is very tasty, really, very rich broth, the seasoning. Very tasty, delicious. I understand why the paisas brag about it so much. We cannot be in paisa lands without tasting an authentic paisa platter. This is a dish that, in fact, is recognized in many parts of the world. Maybe I don't have to explain it to everyone, but it usually has different cuts of meat, the very famous powdered meat, which is basically this meat that is dried ground, which looks like powder, avocado, arepa, egg, fried plantain, blood sausage and ogao, which is this onion sauce with tomato. And we came to try it in this area called Provenza, which is very lively. At night it is full of bars, noise, people sit here to drink. Well, come on, for now we will not drink, but we will swallow. How tasty. Provechito. It's not your terricuda. You can't go wrong with this. It has flavor, it has seasoning, it has color. Elements that represent it as a good dish from Colombia itself. What a joy, what a gulp! I have to call someone to help me roll out of here, which shouldn't be a problem, because throughout this journey through Colombia I stay connected to Pillofone. That's right, PilloFone, the coolest phone, now the coolest phone, is officially on Colombian soil. We have reached agreements with local companies to have very good coverage, very good plans and excellent prices. With PilloFone we are trying for the first time in the whole Latin American territory, the freeze your plan modality, with which you can make your data last much longer. If you suddenly get home at night, you have wifi, good signal at work, whatever, you freeze your plan and automatically those hours are added to your total time. So you could be extending your plan from one month to maybe forty days. We also offer annual plans. And if that's not enough, we also offer six months of free WhatsApp with the purchase of any plan. fiveG network, keep your own number and we are backed by Tigo's network, which gives us a lot of confidence. Check out all the plans that PilloFund has for you. Pillofon. Co, order your SIM now, it arrives directly to your home or activate your iSIM, your electronic SIM with the link below in the description. And to commemorate this launch, I worked hand in hand with a local paisa muralist to make this tremendous work of art that symbolizes connecting the territory through technology with culture, colors, warmth, traditions. It was very beautiful, it was sincerely very cool. He is the good Apolo, the great artist who did a great job with the design. Everything we wanted to represent is the color of Colombia, the warmth, the friendliness, everything that makes us so unique in Latin America and in the world, that color, that joy, and especially in this area that represents the city of Medellin. Medellin is a city that has also developed through art. So we, the local artists, now have the space to express ourselves, to create and create a scene, to create community through art. So come on, let's continue the adventure, let's continue the swallowing. Our last stop is Bogota, the capital of the country. It feels more fried here, the weather changed at once. This street we are walking is called La Septima, full of stores of whatever you can imagine. Surely here we will find delicious fritangas. Let's clarify this situation once and for all. A few years ago when I filmed street food in Colombia, people got very angry with me about why I didn't try the authentic salchipapa. So, we found this place called La Salchipaperia, which look, if a place called La Salchipaperia doesn't sell authentic salchipapa, then I stop calling myself, Luis. For twelve five hundred, about three dollars, I ordered the classic salchipaperia that has chips, has sausage, has melted cheese. And in this place they make crazy recipes, they add chicharron, sauces, sauces, and things get morbid. Probechin. How wonderful. This is delicious. I will even proceed to pay homage to a legend. I ate a salsipapa. Now I understand why that boy was so happy? Why was he rejoicing in those movements? This is delicious. Comment below. I got ripped off again. Now that's a good salchipapa. It's really tasty by all means. Long live the salchipapa. Everywhere you go, here you see hot dog stands, that for five one thousand pesos, a little more than a dollar, they prepare it for you but machin. They put potatoes, lettuce, multiple sauces and the famous sara ben cheese, which I am told is the daily one they usually work with. There is not much to comment, it is what a hot dog is, but Colombian style. One of the most iconic places to eat in this city is La Perseverancia, this mini market of street food stalls that has been operating for more than four decades. This is Patricia, one of the meras meras here at La Perseverancia. The most delicious is the cocido, the bandeja paisa, the marrano bones and the guiso de cola. Sounds good. The secret touch is the one my mother gave us, cooking with natural things, not artificial things, natural things that come from the field, from the earth. That's what gives the secret flavor to the food. Well, let's start with the iconic changua. This dish is like a soup, like a broth, which is eaten at breakfast time and basically has bread, milk, egg, cheese, onion and herbs to taste. It looks curious, let me say that it is a dish that I have never seen before and it is not something that I would prepare for fun, although who knows, it might surprise me. Come on, smoke it, it's really hot. Provechitos. How funny this is. No, but it's really curious, I mean, it's very curious. It's like when you're smashing your bread in your cafe con leche and suddenly the bread breaks and falls out. And then, all of a sudden, you were eating your egg and you slipped and the egg fell in there. And you said: No way, I've already made the whole thing like that. That's more or less what it tastes like to me, but it has a peculiar, pleasant flavor. Look how curious. I understand why you like it to start a morning with all the energy. Tamales here are serious stuff. This is the most typical one eaten in Bogota. What is prepared with, listen to me, potatoes, rice, pork, chicken, carrots, coconut, among other little things that we will surely discover now. Well, come on, I am very curious about this. Let's see, there it is with the rice and everything. Come on, provide, ching. Oh, it's delicious. Yummy, it tastes good. Wow! I really loved this one, so you can see. Complete meal, balanced and prepared instantly. I'm going to wash down my tamale with this drink called Cola y Pola, which I'm told is very typical. Basically, it's cola, like Colombian cola, with beer. So, it has a low alcohol content, but it is very tasty. Indeed, it is very tasty. The drunkard appreciates Luisillo. You can't say you came to Colombia if you haven't had a good drink. This is a chicken soup with three, four, sometimes five different types of potatoes. They add rice, maicito, herbs to taste. It is advisable, especially when you have a hangover. Your grandmother has been preparing it for you since you were a child. This is delicious. The broth, as well as clicked on the potato, as with the broth and it is thick. And it's a little kiss with a lot of love, straight to your stomach. And the usual debate, where is the arepa from? Well, look, no idea, but this is the arepa boyacense from the region of Boyaca, Colombia. What characterizes it is the type of corn that is ground. This one has a little bit of cheese mixed with the dough. This dish is eaten more in the mornings and evenings. As a snack, it is sweet. Yummy. It is a meal that can be either a main course, salty or a dessert, with a cup of coffee, with a good pinto. It has to be one hundred percent. I'm going to enjoy it with Colombian tatita. This soda, which is really very typical, its name says it, is a colita soda. Indeed, it reflects those notes. I feel like I'm in my native Boyaca. It goes without saying how delicious the food is in Colombia, how tasty the people receive you, what a good time you have here. My favorite city on this occasion, I think the food was better in Cartagena, although sincerely the three cities fascinated me. As you have seen, I read them below in the comments. Thank you very much for joining me in one more adventure. See you, as always, as you know, in a few days with a new video. Bye.