My research lab sits about a mile during the Boston Marathon in 2013. The surviving bomber, was tried, convicted Now, when a jury has to make the decision between life in prison they base their decision largely feels remorseful for his actions. Tsarnaev spoke words of apology, but when jurors looked at his face, all they saw was a stone-faced stare. Now, Tsarnaev is guilty, He murdered and maimed innocent people, and I'm not here to debate that. My heart goes out But as a scientist, I have to tell you that jurors do not or any other emotion in anybody ever. Neither can I, and neither can you, and that's because emotions They are not universally They are not hardwired brain reactions that are uncontrollable. We have misunderstood for a very long time, and understanding what emotions really are I have studied emotions as a scientist and in my lab, we have probed human faces that cause your facial muscles to contract We have scrutinized We have analyzed involving thousands of test subjects. We've scanned hundreds of brains, and examined every that has been published And the results of all of this research It may feel to you and they just trigger and happen to you, but they don't. You might believe that your brain that you're born with emotion In fact, none of us in this room In fact, no brain on this planet So what are emotions, really? Well, strap on your seat belt, emotions are guesses. They are guesses that your brain where billions of brain cells and you have more control than you might imagine that you do. Now, if that sounds preposterous to you, I'm right there with you, because frankly, decades of evidence for myself, I am fairly sure But the bottom line is that emotions They are just built. To see what I mean, have a look at this. Right now, your brain Your neurons are firing like mad so that you see something Your brain is sifting making thousands of guesses weighing the probabilities, trying to answer the question, &quot;What is this most like?&quot; not &quot;What is it?&quot; but &quot;What is this most like And this is all happening Now if your brain is still struggling and you still see black and white blobs, then you are in a state and I am going to cure you This is my favorite part. (Cheers) All right. Here we go. (Gasps) All right. So now many of you see a snake, and why is that? Because as your brain is sifting there's new knowledge there, the knowledge that came And what's really cool is that that knowledge which you just is changing how you experience So your brain is constructing where there is no snake, and this kind of a hallucination is what neuroscientists like me Predictions are basically It's business as usual for your brain. Predictions are the basis They are the basis In fact, predictions are what allow you as they come out of my -- Audience: Mouth. Predictions are primal. They help us to make sense So your brain does not react to the world. Using past experience, your brain predicts and constructs your experience of the world. The way that we see emotions in others So to us, it feels like and we just read the emotion the way that we would read But actually, under the hood, It's using past experience to try to make meaning. This time, you're not you're making meaning of facial movements like the curl of a lip And that stone-faced stare? That might be someone but a stone-faced stare might also mean that someone is stoically which is in fact what Chechen culture in Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's situation. So the lesson here is that emotions that you seem actually come in part And this is true in the courtroom, but it's also true in the classroom, in the bedroom, and in the boardroom. And so here's my concern: tech companies well, maybe not. You know, Google, Facebook -- (Laughter) are spending millions of research dollars and they are fundamentally because they're trying to detect but emotions aren't in your face and body. Physical movements We have to make them meaningful. A human or something else and that makes them meaningful. That's how we know and a cry might mean happiness, and a stoic, still face might mean that you are angrily plotting Now, if I haven't already I'll just edge out on that limb that the way that you experience is exactly the same process. Your brain is basically that it's constructing in the moment with billions of neurons working together. Now your brain does come simple feelings that come So when you're born, you can make feelings excitement, comfort, discomfort. But these simple feelings They're actually with you They are simple summaries kind of like a barometer. But they have very little detail, and you need that detail What do you about these feelings? And so how does your brain Well, that's what predictions are. Predictions link that give you these simple feelings with what's going on so that you know what to do. And sometimes, those constructions are emotions. So for example, if you were your brain might predict the delicious aroma of freshly baked I know my brain would predict the delicious aroma of freshly baked And our brains might cause to prepare for eating those cookies. And if we are correct, if in fact some cookies then our brains will and we are prepared and digest them in a very efficient way, meaning that we can eat a lot of them, which would be a really good thing. You guys are not laughing enough. (Laughter) But here's the thing. That churning stomach, if it occurs in a different situation, it can have a completely So if your brain were to predict in, say, a hospital room then your brain will be constructing dread or worry or anxiety, and it might cause you to, maybe, wring your hands or take a deep breath or even cry. Right? Same physical sensation, different experience. And so the lesson here is that emotions which seem are actually made by you. You are not at the mercy which are buried deep inside You have more control over your emotions than you think you do. I don't mean that you can and change how you feel the way but your brain is wired so that if you change the ingredients then you can transform So if you change those ingredients today, you're basically teaching your brain and this is what I call So here's an example. All of us have had a nervous feeling But some people experience They have test anxiety. Based on past experiences of taking tests, their brains predict sweaty hands, so much so that they are unable They don't perform well, and sometimes they not only fail courses But here's the thing: a hammering heartbeat It could be that your body and ace that test ... or, you know, give a talk in front of hundreds of people (Laughter) I'm serious. (Laughter) And research shows to make this kind instead of anxiety, they perform better on tests. And that determination seeds their brain so that they can get their butterflies And if they do that often enough, they not only can pass a test but it will be easier for them and they might even finish college, which has a huge impact So I call this emotional Now you can cultivate and use it in your everyday life. So just, you know, imagine waking up in the morning. I'm sure you've had You wake up and as you're emerging you feel this horrible dread, you know, this real wretchedness, and immediately, your mind starts to race. You start to think about and you have that mountain of email which you will never the phone calls you have to return, and that important meeting across town, and you're going to have to fight traffic, you'll be late picking your kids up, your dog is sick, and what Oh my God. What is wrong with your life? What is wrong with my life? (Laughter) That mind racing is prediction. Your brain is searching for those sensations in your body just like you did with the blobby image. So your brain is trying to explain so that you know what to do about them. But those sensations might not be an indication They might have a purely physical cause. Maybe you're tired. Maybe you didn't sleep enough. Maybe you're hungry. Maybe you're dehydrated. The next time that you feel ask yourself: Could this have a purely physical cause? Is it possible that you can transform emotional suffering Now I am not suggesting to you that you can just perform and talk yourself out of being depressed or anxious or any kind But I am telling you that you have more control and that you have the capacity to turn down the dial and its consequences for your life by learning how to construct And all of us can do this and with a little practice, like driving. At first, it takes a lot of effort, but eventually it becomes Now I don't know about you, but I find this to be and the fact that it's backed up makes me also happy as a scientist. But I have to also warn you because more control If you are not at the mercy which are buried deep and which trigger automatically, then who's responsible, who is responsible when you behave badly? You are. Not because you're culpable but because the actions become your brain's Sometimes we are responsible for something not because we're to blame but because we're the only ones Now responsibility is a big word. It's so big, in fact, that sometimes people feel the need that emotions are built and not built in. The idea that we are responsible seems very hard to swallow. But what I'm suggesting to you You just take a deep breath, maybe get yourself and embrace it. Embrace that responsibility, because it is the path a more just and informed legal system, and a more flexible Thank you. (Applause)