The term 'Thalassophobia' means 'An It is one of the most primal and understandable been a birthplace of monsters. Lurking below the waves are not only bizarre of imagined leviathans. Something about the fathomless void floods creatures, which have scared and fascinated So, for this entry into the archive, we'll discover what terrors lurk within the heart "Beginning a descent... Cruising depth in roughly 40 seconds, standby." I'll begin with the game Iron Lung... where submarine, exploring depths so far below the has to be welded shut. It's a good starting point because despite short of falling into the Mariana Trench, the terror of the deep sea firsthand. Iron Lung takes place in the wake of an event known star and habitable planet just... vanished, stations. And one remaining moon is now covered in what this ocean you're diving beneath. Very relaxing stuff. With the window welded shut, your only way that pings when you're near a wall. But soon, you start to get pings even when The sole method of checking what's out there an old polaroid -- taking a few, nail-biting At first, despite the pings on the radar, things. Mysterious bones that defy explanation, twisting impossibly, what seems to be the remains of Until eventually you take a picture, and in It's hard to convey how frightening this moment Because of the delay, you know the creature another picture and it's... gone. Like there was nothing there at all. As you continue, despite the vastness of the to feel paradoxically claustrophobic, made fires. Later, the vessel starts flooding, blood rising Eventually a huge object appears on the radar, This was about where I hit my limit, which minimalist mechanics to simulate the terror While its ocean of blood is of course fictional, encounters with the ocean depths... Frightening experiences with the ocean aren't Stories of sea monsters, likely inspired by have existed since our first days of seafaring. But for much of history, many regarded the In the 19th century, the popular 'Abyssus held that no species could not exist deeper surface. While later studies would contradict this attempted to dive below such depths to see Naturalist William Beebe, alongside Otis Barton had before in a metal tank called the Bathysphere. And what they saw changed science forever. Fish that flashed with bioluminescent color, invertebrates that glided on fantastical fins. One can only imagine what it was like for alien sights of the deep for the first time. Especially when you consider that the men state of mind, as both were battered and concussed Perhaps it's no surprise, then, that not been identified. Beebe stated he saw a bizarre creature he while no such species has ever been spotted to a deep-sea comb jelly, which Beebe's to comprehend its true form. Even more incredibly, Beebe claimed that two swam by -- which have also never been documented It's possible that once again Beebe saw it... or it's possible these giants have In either case, the Bathysphere's descent with visions of the watery depths. Over the next few decades, numerous leviathans -- with movies about aquatic monsters terrorizing One of the most famous of these films was Leagues Under the Sea -- a movie with origins The novel it's based on comes from 1870, -- making it foundational to all sci-fi interpretations Leading into the modern era, the vast majority portray it as a hostile realm. Nearly everything about the uncharted depths pressure, to the low visibility, to the bizarre The deep sea can be so alien, some works of aliens. In James Cameron's The Abyss, humans make extraterrestrials who settled in Earth's The film seems to take inspiration from "In Wells -- in which an explorer discovers a beings. Perhaps it should be no surprise the ocean as many real deep-sea species seem like they'd Take, for example, the Barreleye Fish -- an to look upwards through its own head to spot Or the Vampire Squid, a cephalopod whose underside ward off predators. The lifeforms of the depths can be so unsettling, it as a terrifying realm... Yet a greater understanding of the oceans Abzu (Ab-zoo) is a soothing video game that undersea realm. Following the voyage of a diver through stunning no combat or survival mechanics. Instead, you spend your time drifting through of a porpoise and leaping over the waves, Abzu invites you into the beating heart of the rhythm of life. At the same time, it is a game that politely of your fears and meditate on the calm vistas But even in the cheeriest, most brightly-lit where the dread of the vast abyss creeps in. One major example of this appears in Beyond you catalogue different species of marine Compared to Abzu, Beyond Blue takes a less underwater exploration. Yet even though it's not intended to frighten, than the entirety of certain horror titles. There's a moment in Beyond Blue where from your camera, before disappearing again into The game suggests that even in an educational Perhaps the ultimate example of accidental A series that plunges you into the alien seas bring you face to face with so many nightmarish as horror games -- or at least horror adjacent. Yet that wasn't the intention when the game Originally, Subnautica was planned to be a but early testers kept getting frightened to realize the potential the game had as a Yet the power of Subnautica comes from more The game will stun you with the vastness of the bizarreness of unclassifiable oddities, wonders. Though not set on Earth, more than perhaps of the ocean in its totality -- a realm that I think it's curious, then, that despite biosphere of simulated life, Subnautica is to terrify. In today's market, Subnautica doesn't There's no killer chasing you, no axe wielding that are much closer to us land-dwellers than And yet the dread that Subnautica evokes can point where you forget the more peaceful parts the water again. Even when the ocean isn't presented as something feel some uneasiness towards immeasurable In regions where the light dims and visibility our animal mind checks in and gets to work leviathans twisting just out of sight... Of course, it doesn't help that there are Abyssal Gigantism is a scientific term for to grow far larger than their shallow-water While there are some proposed explanations abyssal habitats means that there's still own oceans. It can make you feel like anything might be And that can cause problems. A few years ago, an infamous Discovery Channel potential to conceal monsters and suggested swam in the oceans. This concept gained so much traction in the Meg - a movie in which a somehow-still living While it's easy to laugh at the fact that still lived that a major studio made a multi-million-dollar shows the power of the ocean's unknowable Yet many of us had our trust shattered years called Mermaids: The Body Found. This widely aired faux documentary sets out descended from aquatic apes -- and for the cave paintings, manufactured artifacts, and to the absurd concept. The film honestly goes so far into fictional of Speculative Evolution. It even folds in real-world unusual phenomena, of mermaids. For those of you who don't know, The Bloop 2002 that was many orders of magnitude louder While the sound instigated speculation of shows it was almost certainly the result of But the speed at which these hoaxes and misunderstanding of our psyches shut down when gazing into It's no accident that one of the most widely in the deep end of a swimming pool. Plausibility doesn't matter -- when it in the darkness... Paradoxically, sometimes the best way to convey of it. And few pieces of media make use of the unseen World. A deeply surreal pixel art game created by man who believes he's found the origin point The game is dark -- not just thematically, At any given moment, the vast majority of out from your helmet into the unyielding vacuum Much of the gameplay involves sifting through there like a pair of goggles... and things skull that's over ten thousand years old. The more unsettling objects you find, the is coming, that any moment now something will until back at your undersea lab, you hear Returning to the abyss, you find the darkness then, from the gloom, emerges this. ...The main character interprets the being disturbing artifacts, while their mind and And the ending comes not long after that -- for a tiny glimpse of a far wider realm of nightmares... In the same way that the ocean's dreadful seen, the game's restraint makes the atmosphere Another indie game that captures the ocean's In Other Waters. Although the game is focused on exploring of the game's environment is communicated In most games, you have a heads up display of various in-game systems. But when playing In Other Waters, the entire While this can take some getting used to, to feel expansive. As you play, you learn to visualize each lifeform creatures gliding through the water, armored that grow in endless rows. It's a game that embodies the enigmatic the human instinct to imagine what swims below The ocean doesn't need to be filled with Even singular, real datapoints can be haunting. Point Nemo, for example, is a spot in the for the fact that it's the place on earth Should you find yourself floating at Point aboard the International Space Station when Yet monsters are a primal part of our relationship plunge into the void -- there's one final SCP-3000 is an entry into the famous community-driven perhaps the ultimate personification of the SCP-3000 is, in the simplest terms, a giant kilometers, or five hundred miles in length, It also secretes a substance that causes amnesia such a large creature could cause anyone to And that's... basically the whole concept. Considering how complex many entries into SCP-3000 is one of the most famous -- inspiring relative simplicity. There's something about the purity of an all the more intriguing by the fact that the It simply is. To me, it's the ultimate, oddly reassuring our innate fear and fascination with giants In the end, perhaps it shouldn't come as power over the human psyche. The ocean is deep space in our back yard -- an on Earth. As long as a significant percentage of the cease to speculate on what swims beneath the Despite our rational minds telling us otherwise, the monsters of our oldest myths will continue As always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on See you in the next video.