Hey there, guys. Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video, we're going to the cooling load for a Coming up, we'll look and what are the sources of Then we'll calculate a worked and we'll finish up sizing to suit this cooling load. Before we dive in, I just over at Danfoss for sponsoring this video. They have an extensive for cold rooms that can help and energy regulations without Their free Coolselector these principles I'm You can download it for free So first of all, what is a A cold room is used to such as meat and vegetables to and preserve them as fresh as possible for as long as possible. Heat accelerates their deterioration the food by removing the we use a refrigeration to accurately and automatically to preserve the goods So where does the heat come Well, typically five to 15% This is the thermal energy the walls, and the floor Now heat always flows from hot to cold, and the interior of the cold than its surroundings so heat the space because of that If the cold store is then the heat transfer will be higher so an additional correction to allow for this. Then we have product loads 55 to 75% of the cooling load. This accounts for the into the cold room when It's also the energy and further cool after freezing. If you're just cooling the products, then you only need to consider but if you're freezing, the latent heat also as So there is energy used, a temperature change between a state of liquid and ice. Then there is an to further chill this food which is again a sensible heat load. You also need to account for the packaging as this will inherently be called also. Lastly, if you're cooling then these products are alive, and they will generate some heat. So you need to account The next thing to consider which account for around 10 to 20%. Now this is the heat given in the cold room as well as such as forklift trucks, et cetera. So for this you'll need will be used by the staff the products in and out of the store, how much heat will they and the equipment be in Then we need to consider in the room which will of the total cooling load. For this we want to know and estimate how long they Then we want to also account into the space due to The last thing we need to which again adds around one This occurs when the door's of heat into the space through the air. The other consideration is ventilation. Fruit and vegetables So some stores will This air needs to be cooled down. So you must account for So let's now run a simplified example of a cooling load calculation. Now if you're doing this then I recommend you use a design software such as the Danfoss Coolselector First of all, let's start The dimensions of our cold five meters wide, and four meters high. The ambient air is thirty degrees Celsius at 50% relative humidity, one degree Celsius at 95 The walls, roof, and with 80 millimeters of polyurethane with a U value of 0.28 watts and the ground temperature Now just to note that the what the U value is for If not, then you will To calculate the transmission the formula Q equals U multiplied by A multiplied by the temperature multiplied by 24 and The U value we already know. A is just the surface area and the floor, and we'll The temperature in and 24 is just how many and we divide by 1,000 as this formula will calculate the value in watts, but we want to know the and so we just divide it by 1,000. To calculate the area A is fairly easy. It's just the size of each So drop the numbers in to the roof, as well as the floor. Then we can run these that we saw earlier. You'll need to calculate from the walls and the roof is different under the will therefore also be different. If the floor isn't insulated, a different formula We can combine the walls that the daily heat gain is and then we can also 1.8 kilowatt hours per day. Therefore the total is 23.8 kilowatt hours per day. And remember, if your cold then you'll need to account Next we will calculate the cooling load from the product exchange, into the cold room from which are at a higher temperature. For this example, we'll be storing apples. Now you can look up the of the apples, but do remember then the products will have when cooling and then for So you'll need to account for this also, but in this example we're There are 4,000 kilograms of at a temperature of five maintains a hold of 20,000 We can then use the formula multiplied by the temp divided by 3,600, where Q M equals the mass of Temp enter is the entering Temp store is the and 3,600 is simply to convert We can then drop the numbers to 16 kilowatt hours per day. Next, we calculate the Now this is the heat such as fruit and vegetables. These will all generate heat That's why we're cooling their deterioration and For this example, I've used per day as an average, but this rate changes over Now you can use rules of just to simplify the calculation, but the precision of how critical the cooling load needs to be. To calculate this, we'll multiplied by resp divided by 3,600 where Q equals kilowatt hours per day. M equals the mass of product in storage. Resp equals the respiration And 3,600 is just to convert the kilojoules to kilowatt hours. If we drop those numbers in, at 10.5 kilowatt hours per day. For the product section, in the respiration load together to get 26.5 kilowatt hours per day. Next, we'll calculate the in the cold room as people generate heat, and we need to account for this. We'll estimate two people for four hours a day, that at this temperature around 270 watts of heat per For this, we'll use the multiplied by time multiplied where Q equals kilowatt hours per day. People equals how many Time equals the length of time And heat equals the heat 1,000 is just to convert So dropping those numbers 2.16 kilowatt hours per day. Then we can calculate the heat Now this is fairly simple to Q equals lamps multiplied by divided by 1,000 where Q Lamps equals the number of lamps. Time equals the hours of use per day. Wattage is the power rating of the lamps, and 1,000 is to convert So if we have three lamps and they run for four hours that these would give off around 1.2 kilowatt hours of heat per day. For the total internal load, and lighting load together to get a value of 3.36 kilowatt hours per day. Now we can calculate the heat generation of the fan motors in the evaporator. In this cold room evaporator, rated at 200 watts that they will be running We can use the formula Q multiplied by wattage divided by 1,000 where Q equals kilowatt hours per day. Fans equals the number of fans Time equals the daily run hours. Wattage equals the rated and 1,000 is to simply convert So if we drop these numbers in, we'll see that the answer comes out at Now we will calculate the heat load caused by the defrosting In this example, our cold room uses an electric heating element It runs for thirty and the transfer efficiency is 30%. So 30% of all the energy it consumes is actually just transferred We will then use the formula multiplied by cycles where Q equals kilowatt hours per day. Power equals a power rating Time equals the defrost runtime. Cycles is how many times per day will the defrost cycle occur, and the efficiency is will be transferred into the space. So if we drop those numbers in, we'll see that the value comes out at The total equipment load plus the defrost heat load which is 8.94 kilowatt hours per day. Now we need to calculate the heat load from air infiltration. I'm going to use a simplified equation, but depending on how then you may need to use other to achieve greater precision. We'll estimate that there will per day due to the door being opened. The volume is calculated Each cubic meter of air of heat per degree Celsius and the outside air is 30 degree Celsius, whereas the inside air We can then use the multiplied by volume multiplied by energy multiplied by temp out minus where Q equals the kilowatt hours per day. Changes equals the number Volume equals the volume Energy equals the energy per Temp out is the outside air temperature, and temp in is the inside air temperature. And 3,600 is just to convert from kilojoules to kilowatt hours. So we'll drop those numbers that comes out to 9.67 Now we need to calculate So for that we'll just need that we've just performed, that comes out to 72.27 We should also then apply a to account for errors and It's typical to add 10 to 30% onto the calculation to cover this. I've gone with 20%. So we'll just multiply the of 1.2 to give us our total cooling load of 86.7 kilowatt hours per day. The last thing we need to do is calculate the refrigeration capacities A common approach is to average by the runtime of the refrigeration unit. For this, I'm estimating the which is fairly typical for Therefore our total cooling load of 86.7 kilowatt hours per day divided by our 14 hours of runtime means that the refrigeration of 6.2 kilowatts to sufficiently Okay, that's it for this video. Before we wrap things up though, I just want to thank Danfoss one last time and remind you to give everything by downloading their at Coolselector.Danfoss.com. Thanks for watching. I hope you've enjoyed If so, then please like, and leave your comments Also, don't forget to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram, and check out our website