In the year 989 AD, Basil the second, Emperor of was splintered between numerous factions, all Rome. Constantinople itself was under threat and the beleaguered ruler would be saved Aboard were six thousand veteran mercenaries sent would mark the beginning of a legendary legacy. the rebel forces with vengeful fury. In a single would be broken and within a month the rest of war would rise a newly invigorated Byzantine that from now on would come to form the core of Guard, stalwart defenders of the imperial you can learn much more about the life of ancient merchants and explorers available for streaming the ascent of civilization series it does a great stories of the medieval northmen by using a and historical reenactment through it you'll get which forged the ranging guard and what their history videos like this are added weekly to 3000 videos to choose from among the categories you can watch vikings merchants and explorers by clicking the link in the description below until the end of 2021 viewers can also take get one free gift card for an annual membership The Roman Empire had slowly arisen over 1,000 the Mediterranean and its border regions. Thus it hundreds of kings were now dominated by a single of holding these vast lands together. However as factors made it increasingly difficult to hold would seek to stabilize the realm by means of a and junior emperors ruled the east and west. long, the concept of a formally divided realm sharing many cultural features and both no longer locked together. It is this fact which long after the west had fallen in the late 5th they were the culmination of a thousand years of There were many factors which contributed to the geo-political. However, as one might major keys to its success. Long gone was the suited for conquering the Mediterranean, the forcing it to evolve to meet the ever changing the Byzantine Army had adopted a new It was made of several elements which worked largest groups were the "Thematic Armies". These the Empire in return for a military obligation Thematic infantry and cavalry units existed with a provincial levied forces. While not the best of troops which could be raised in a flexible, though On the other end of the spectrum were Though fewer in number they were the formidable was deployed. Among their order were many elite who could trace their origins back to however mercenaries were being used to bolster as the rulers of Constantinople were wealth to acquire military talent Such mercenaries were grouped together in an and were akin to a Foreign Legion. They direct treaties between the reigning emperor came from the emperor himself rather than the therefore technically a separate part of the army, always tied to the imperial bodyguard. Such an the men entrusted with the monarch's safety were Over the years, all kinds of mercenaries would the most famous of these were the Varangian video today. But just how did these men of the The answer is that they followed the of the Hetairai: through treaties. But It turns out that the rulers of Constantinople had north. In fact this dated back to the early and livestock poured into the Mediterranean from that flowed into the Black Sea. The Byzantines involving themselves in the politics of the and to ward off potential attacks. In this last regard though they were not always from the Black Sea and making ever more daring This in part seems to have been a result of the had settled along the North-South merchant routes, eastern Europe. As ancestral traders and vikings, economic activity and proved quite disruptive Byzantines were forced to factor them into the the 9th to 10th centuries a series of treaties as both sides sized each other up. For instance in an 874 treaty which obliged the Rus to provide a 907 treaty appears to have negotiated merchant expands talks to include matters of maritime This would be the seed for the Varangian Guard. At first men came down from the north in dribs individuals or small groups. Supposedly Naval expedition against Crete while around 400 However it would be in the year 988 This occurred when Emperor Basil the Second the First of Kiev in accordance with a prior victory at the siege of Dorostolon. Now Vladimir unruly men, to bolster the forces of the Emperor. sister in marriage while agreeing to convert The Varangians would be exactly what Basil needed. Not just an elite corp of veteran warriors but also a trustworthy force who would watch loyalties that was the Byzantine Empire. Let us now trace how one would become all came from the far off lands to the to a variety of different communities, the Varangians, a name whose etymology can be traced "sworn companion". These lands far beyond the being described as a sort of semi-mythical land The Medieval Scandinavians too were only What they did hear were rumors and stories These spoke of a far off land, known to them immeasurable wealth. Songs and sagas with gold. Such fanciful tales were common At first only the most adventurous or desperate rewarded with fortune beyond anything they had returned from the land of the Romans with inspire the skalds for hundreds of years. For Harald Hadrada would become one of the wealthiest vast treasures to take over the throne of legends that would be told for centuries. Bleak gales lashed prows Iron-shielded, our ships Of Miklagard, our famous prince Many a sea-ship, fine arrayed, This sort of tale proved infections. Soon people to strike it rich. This proved so destabilizing deal with the implications of the gold rush. being made to keep men who were actively serving Traditionally, a prospective Varangian would sailed south from the city of Novgorod. and portage their longships overland to the Dneipr they braved the Seven Cataracts and sailed south the city of Constantinople and behold the majesty These men typically came in groups with their units once they were taken into service. Harald of 500 Varangians which remained a discrete integrated into the Byzantine army. The exact was employed would vary. Generally though this the Mercenary Varangians, or The Sailing Varangians essentially functioned as coast guard privateers. They manned their own protecting them from pirates. In exchange for plunder was gathered from a defeated ship with The Varangian Mercenaries acted as a part of previously mentioned. As such they were used always sent wherever fighting was fiercest or were renowned for their absolute loyalty and, never betray their city or army. They had the most in the Byzantine military, being given the right The final form of employment and the most the 'Varangians of the City' whom we Alongside all of the privileges given to the showered in even more gold. The average Varangian gold nomismata a month - about 30-40 times The Guard as a whole also received one with the other two thirds going to the emperor and the throne, in addition to the bonus that every it was traditional for the Varangians to 'raid' take as much as they could carry. All Because of all this, positions in the Varangian competitive. Only those of sufficient reputation, The few who made it into their ranks were making them unshakably loyal Let us now take a closer look at the The ancient historian Michael Psellos quote "Next to them stood men from the terrible of aspect and huge of body. The their natural complexion [...] the Varangians fight shoulders, and faces were also reported to As for their equipment, when an adventurer he would generally bring with him the gear of his a shirt, mail armour, a nasal helmet, and a a spear, axe, or sword. One traditional were the massive two-handed battleaxes. Yet as and subsequently moved up the ranks, This was made possible by their newfound wealth which could be found in and around Constantinople. shirts were now traded in for longer and even rose to cover their faces. Over and ornate helmets, as well as arm and shin material that warriors often wore what is known that wasn't all. They also wielded larger, more adopting the great kite design of the Byzantines In terms of offense, the Varangians seem their heritage though often weapons For instance while a warrior might hold onto acquired a more lavish greek sword as a sidearm popular though was the rhomphaia, a distinctly It was alternately described as a polearm or a sword about a meter long with a single among the Varangians of the City that it became All in all it can be said that just lookin would put fear into the heart of any man who by stories of their mysterious "Gothic Dance" a ritual in animal skins and masks while Now let us turn to a discussion of how As we mentioned previously, the Varangians of the Byzantine Army. Its organization is poorly mention the Hetairai as being composed of into companies. All together, some historians thousand. However this would all have changed with and the reforms of the Komnenos dynasty of the sources, its all done in a rather eclectic manner. the capital to a few thousand marching on campaign to reconstruct the organization of the Varangian with various ranks of officers. What these were We do however know a bit about their or 'the man just behind the emperor', he was it was said that when the Emperor was away, he was Initially the Akolouthos seems to have commanded lead the Varangians of the City. Eventually following the sack of Constantinople in the in line behind the Emperor. Let us now turn The Varangians were quartered across the city included the following: the old barracks of around the Port of Mamas, and the area They even had their own church dedicated to Hardrada - and the virgin Mary, named 'Our Lady As for their daily activities, technically functioning as a useful source of manpower for we can generalize their activities based on For instance the members of the Sailing nautical heritage to good use, hunting pirates The Varangian Mercenaries meanwhile important garrisons of the Empire or serving as times they might even be given command of regular "Ragnvald" who was active in Greece. acted as a hybrid bodyguard or police Wherever the Emperor went, these hulking warriors Rome, clearing a path through crowds with whips alongside their master. Guardsmen also and the city's great churches. This could and it's no surprise that one of them, a man by of graffiti on the second floor of the Hagia Perhaps a more exciting assignment though Here the Varangian Guards had a chance to flex and arresting high profile targets who less loyal troops. They also served as jailors Apparently they made quite the impression with as demons in their descriptions of hell. For a poem based on his experiences: but even worse than Hades are the shouting When they weren't on the battlefield or known as 'the emperor's wineskins.' They were and an even greater love for Greek wine. Their instances of drunk Varangians even attacking the fourth. They were regular spectators and frequently participated in the brawls that but a few decades of their arrival, the of the vivid social tapestry that Now let us consider how they were also woven We will start with a generalized On the battlefield they functioned primarily as commander might choose to deploy them break through enemy lines or fortified positions. ready to plug any holes in the front line or to In either case they excelled as elite troops. basic tactics. More skilled commanders combined brutal effect. Working together the paired and take on all kinds of foes who might otherwise tactics were possible. To get a sense of this, Unfortunately in this regard it is actually service history. We know that they played a core this fact for granted, rarely giving us explicit in battle. As such I'd like to give you a brief MAY have been a part of during their lifespan with We can pick up the narrative with sent to assist Basil the Second in 989 significantly bolstering his forces which in Asia. The rival's head was cut off and his army hacking the enemy to pieces with glee. With the turn his attention to external foes, embarking which likely meant that the Varangians and 999 the Byzantines counter punched fighting a series of raids, battles and sieges Now Basil would turn west. He directed his previously bested the Byzantines, dangerously However, armed with the Varangians, things would bloody campaigns would be launched against fortresses and their armies. The struggle Here Byzantine forces hammered the front of a through when troops were maneuvered over In the aftermath it was said that Bulgarian 99 of them being blinded with the This ultimately precipitated the end of the over these lands with Basil earning the a brutal affair in which the ferocity of the But the fighting did not end there. Basil Georgia, and Armenia. Varangians were even where they proved victorious at Such was the scale of Basil's military campaigning would reach its greatest territorial heights historian Psellos "He crushed rebellions, subdued the Empire. The treasury was overflowing with Everywhere the might of Roman arms was respected its safe to say that the Varangians had The successors of Basil however struggled launched across the various frontiers which kept military machine was slowing down. The Empire was led to military cuts that only further accelerated Amid all this, the Varangians stood firmly at loyalty but at times did have to pick a when the deeply unpopular Emperor Michael the purge members of the Macedonian Dynasty, he would Legend tells that the Varangian Guardsman, Harald blinding and castrating the ex-emperor Thereafter a series of rather ineffectual rulers decline. This poor state of affairs was in 1071. Here the Byzantines were drawn in and when the western forces attempted a controlled of the army, and the Varangians in particular, enveloped position was untenable. One by one In the aftermath, civil war wreaked further a precipitous decline. Yet complete disaster would dynasty. The army and the Varangians would slowly that the Guard increasingly became dominated by conquests of England. One source even claims Clearly so long as there was money to be had These would now be put to use in the various For instance in 1081 they would find facing off against a Norman invasion force placed in the vanguard alongside a force of The imperial battle plan was simple and effective: horse archers to skirmish back and forth. When the Varangians, along with the rest of the army, would Initially the plan seems to have worked. The their left even breaking when met with more charged, thirsting for blood and battle. The horses panicked before these giant men with their Unfortunately, they had cut too deeply, The Normans capitalized on this, quickly swarming in with spearmen to hold them in position The Varangians realized they had to play of Michael the Archangel atop a nearby hill. The Byzantine flanks had both over exposed to a devastating counter charge by The Byzantine army was shattered, the Emperor Now the Normans could turn their full The guard made a heroic last stand with the However no mercy would be shown. Fire was rained upon the house of God, But that was not the end of the northmen. Like phoenixes they arose from the ashes once serve the Emperors faithfully through thick and deal with the various crusades launched by Initially these seemed to be a welcome source bringing in new sources of manpower that This gave the Byzantines enough breathing room Pechenegs. At the battle of Beroia in 1122, the punched through the enemy wagon fort, collapsing However, fresh waves of Crusaders At first they formed a tenuous alliance for joint campaigns that may have seen the Eventually though, weak Byzantine rulers Cooperation turned to competition among The Fourth Crusade would actually end up seeing in 1204. It was reported that the Varangians before finally being overwhelmed. The last mention the Morea which states that they served to provide one of the three major fragments of the following the sack of Constantinople. Following Perhaps they lingered a few more memory alongside the Byzantine Empire they We hope you've enjoyed this deep dive into one of editors poured their sweat and passion into this some awesome Varangian Guard designs for the so please consider a purchase as it helps fuel Also let them know what kinds Finally we'd like to thank the and the researcher and writers for bringing and subscribe for content and check out these