(atmospheric music) - Today I'm cooking for my friend. When I cook for my friend, I do dish that I know I do dish that I like myself too, so that everyone feel comfortable. This is not the time to try You want people to be and enjoying it. What is more familiar than a chicken? And this is what we're going to do today. Starting cooking a what we call a coq au vin sometimes in France. A coq refers to an old, and this is the poulet, with a red wine sauce. And to do this I'm going to start by cutting the wing off into two piece. We're going to start both of them, and that will give me just a little bit of fat from the skin of those two piece of meat and this is what I'm going to brown the chicken in it later on. So we start there and the second thing we have started here is the tiny pearl onion. I have some pearl onion and to glaze them I put a half a cup of water, a dash of sugar, so and now we cook that covered. What happens is that they're the liquid will reduce, eventually we'll take the lid off and continue cooking it until there is no more liquid so they will start of olive oil and sugar at the end, and that's what we want. This, I want to brown around, and during that time, When you bone out a chicken, to cut the leg, the best way, instead of have it on the back, put it on the side then to actually use the weight of the chicken, so with the point of a knife, all that you have to Then here, there is a little that I have to cut and now I have to crack that leg open and often people do this Bring it back up, grab at the knee, and crack it open here. Then you cut through that The leg will come. Second leg again, cut the skin, the little oyster, break it open, cut at the joint and pull it out. In our recipe here, we want to eliminate, you know, a great deal and it's in the skin especially because the chicken is going so we don't need the skin. I discard the skin and here, I will remove maybe the which I pull out with Those bones, this one Then, cutting into the center here, on each side we want of that chicken here. Here, I'm cutting it, A lot of the boning out You have a nice breast of chicken. The breast of chicken, of course, is going to take longer so this is really what I have the thigh and the removing the end of the drumstick, and pulling the skin out of it. Use a towel sometime, to pull it out with the Of course, most of your Sometimes when I fry chicken, I still leave some skin, and I really press on it to remove as much of the fat as possible, but when I am going to like in that recipe that I would rather, you Now this you put in this is very good for stock, or you do a stock with it. So let's see, this has That's what I need. So now it is time to brown the chicken. So the idea is to brown the get a bit of that crust (pan sizzling) Even the breast. So the first part we brown it and the second part we cook So I don't cover it, I'm going Put a little bit of salt on top. And... I should really... Clean up my table, clean up my table good after the chicken. It's always important with a bit of soap and water, if you can, and rinse your knife and your hand. This is important. Remember, especially now a great deal about salmonella, which is going to be mostly in the skin, but it's important. The second thing that we is to start our potato. We're doing a mashed potato and the garlic and turnip mashed potato, I'm lowering this, and I'm going to put a The water's evaporated already. Okay, on low heat. And I have here half a cup of water. I put only a little bit of water and a dash of salt in the bottom. Again, when I cook vegetable, I like the vegetable to cook down and by the time they are cooked, there is barely no liquid leftover, so I don't drain the potato, I use all of the liquid, So I have a pound of potato, Peel with a vegetable peeler, of course. This way. You can peel the potato you see, providing that If you don't keep it in water, it is going to discolorate, I wash my potato in there. Cut it into pieces. I mean, the size of the will kind of determine the amount of time it's going to cook. I have that white turnips here. Now you know if you do a puree of turnip, the turnip will reduce that's why we put the potato with it. Sometimes when the turnips I do half potato, half turnips. When the turnips are stronger, two thirds potato, a third turnip. Remember, you have half in the turnip than you have in the potato, but the turnip by themselves are strong and I say kind of reduce to nothing. In addition, what I like to do in it, see, the end may be tough, what I like to do in there is Couple of clove of garlic. Here, my... My godmother, you know, always cook garlic in her mashed potato and it give a very fine, People won't even know there is garlic. A dash of salt in there, then we put that to cook directly here. Cover, that will cook That depend really on the amount of, on the size that you cut your potato. So here... I'm turning my chicken you know, pretty nicely. Okay, continue doing it. And now while the chicken I can get rid of that, I can start on the first course, and the first course today is a cod fish which is poached and it's placed on top of a mixture that we call a tapanade, T A P A N A D E. The South of France. Actually, the tapanade in the South of France for capers. So it is a sauce made with capers, and this is what we have here. We have anchovy filet in oil, we have fig, dry fig, that I put in it as it's commonly used and the capers and the black olives, you know, oil cured, and we are going to poach directly on top of water that You put that directly on your plate and that will take only a so during that time we can and I have some black olives that I put in there. Maybe my chicken may be roasted enough. I think I might as well This is brown, you see, you want to get the crystallization and in the dripping of that chicken here, in the dripping I'm going to do the sauce, the red wine sauce. Remember also that I to cook in it first, then the white meat only at the end, because if I put it too early, that is, the white meat is going to be fibrous and kind of overcooked. So we have onion that I put back in there (knife chopping) in the dripping. Finely minced onion that I have here right into those dripping. Okay, saute them for like a minute or so, and I will add chopped garlic to it. Again, all of that mixture. Saute it. And with that now we are The chicken with red wine. About a cup, cup and a half. Remember that a great deal of the calorie goes with the alcohol when Not all of it, but more than half of it will go through the I have some bay leaf and dash of salt and into this I'm going to put back the dark meat first. That should reboil for And during that time, we finish the sauce and I could also actually put now, this is, as you can see, browning now, so that is my pearl onion. I put the mushroom in there for the garnish on top. Finishing cooking nicely. And now I can finish cooking the fish. Or rather, making the sauce for the fish. On those capers, there so what you can do is to wash your capers to remove some of the sodium, You look for those type of capers which are tiny, small capers, the small capers are better Those oil cured olives, you can press out and the seed will come The fig, as you can and it gives a very it's not classical in the tapanade but it gives a terrific taste, a kind of sweetness, you know, which counterbalance the anchovy filet as well as the olives, you know. I put the olive oil from this. Remember that the tapanade is actually a spread, if you want. I mean, you go in the South of France and you have tapanade that you eat around, mm? This is what we use it for. I put a little bit of water into this, you know, some olive oil. Monosaturated oil, you know, and of course you can always cut down. Cracked pepper in this, and basically this is Actually, you know, very often I chop the little capers, you know. I did not hear but you can So now the fish should What I want to do first, the chicken is boiling nicely here, and you see that fish will cook very fast. A couple of minute in this and I'm not even going to I'm just going to keep Stop my heat and before I finish the fish, which I have here, I'm going to put the I will arrange the tapanade as a sauce, you know, in the bottom of this. It has a beautiful not only color but a very strong taste, you know, that mixture and that goes so well with a poached fish, you know? Here, and on top of this I'll still do a little bit of garnish, see, this is just barely flaking That's good. Another piece here. Maybe a bit more of the garnish around. And before I put the garnish on top, I'm going to add to my coq au vin here the two breast of chicken, who should cook a few Lower my heat. And now on top of that, I can put maybe a little just so that it looks better, gives some color because the I have some basil on top, we that is putting it together again for taste as well and on top of our fish now plus the coloring of the tomato here, and here it is, our cod fish You know, we use crouton I mean, crouton for salad, and I want to talk about you, I mean with you about crouton. We do them with different type of bread. Of course, the white bread like that, this is your conventional which is done just by trimming the bread and cutting it into little square. You know, this way the bread like one day, not fresh-fresh. So those little croutons that's really when they are good. We used to fry that in a skillet, and of course use a great amount of oil. Now you know what is done is to put a little bit of oil like this and I put the crouton in there and moisten the crouton so that they are just coated and then I put them to put in the oven this way. You lose much less oil this way. Now, again, with this, conventionally we do those this way and again fry them in a skillet. What we are doing now is to pour a little bit of oil directly and spread it with your finger so you have maybe one or two teaspoon and press the bread into it then you put it in the oven. Much less oil used this The crouton we are going to do today for the coq au vin, the is done, we call that, It is done by cutting piece then after that half piece of bread, so this you cut the corner to do like a triangle, a lion teeth here, and sometime we mark that mark right here, and this is basically You dip those again in oil on each side and put them in the oven in the same way. And now you may not know and a toast Melba that Escoffier developed for the famous Australian singer You put it flat and now you to have it very, very, very thin, which is the way she liked it, very thin. See, you cannot toast a piece otherwise it'd just curl up and burn, but this is your real toast Melba. And don't forget to put your crouton on top of the salad when and I think now we're and first let's check and the potato are boiling They are cooked, so we're going to put them If I had only potato, I would not put the potato because they tend to get cordy, but with the turnips it's fine, you know? Realize that I'm putting all the water of my potato in there plus We don't use much butter in our show, but occasionally it is worth it, you know? (blender whirring) But we put it at the last moment, a small quantity unsalted butter, to have the best possible quality, and remember in there we did not put any, we did not put any cream or just the cooking water, that if you calculate you just have the right amount, meaning that you keep all of and of the turnips. Potato are high in potassium and all this. So that dish doesn't really it's about 150 calorie per portion and we have four portion in there, so you can see we have and nicely done fresh this way. Then the rest of my mashed potato here. I have that wonderful That two clove of garlic that and I thank my aunt for that in Valence, the South of France, and here it is, the mashed potato with Sometimes, you know, that's terrific, I love those mashed potato. We're going to leave it here now and do a very simple dessert again today. A dessert made of This is my wife's favorite, So we'll do it with yogurt and with brown sugar I like and instead of putting the brown sugar directly into the blueberry, you know, I spread the blueberry of course, and put the you know, if you want to splurge with sour cream, of course, it is richer. It is more calorie but that's very good. You see, what happen is within a couple of it's starting melting now, and it will form a beautiful design into the yogurt, you know? We can put a couple of to make it a bit more festive around, and that really makes a And now it's time to finish our chicken and the chicken, we're going to present it on that beautiful platter here. Here I have, so the chicken there has been cooking long enough and I want to remove it to a slotted spoon with those onion and So I will arrange that on the plate because I want to thicken Sometimes I discard and sometimes I leave the thyme or bay leaf We arrange that on the plate. Remember, we have the two so the breast, you can cut those breast in two piece so that you and a piece of dark meat for everyone. Here it is, here. I put that to cook because It should come to a boil, and on top of it, look at those beautiful which are glazed, you know? This is the classic, well, years ago we would put little you know, we call lardon in France, which are salty and add it to it and it is fine but of so I kind of tend to omit them. Then that dark juice, we're going to add it to the sauce, and the sauce will be thickened lightly with a little bit of potato starch there. I put a little bit of potato starch which I dilute with a dash of water. Actually, you could use because actually it's part of the dish, and when that comes to a boil, as soon as that starch it will thicken on contact. So what you do, you put a little bit, and you look at it. You put a bit more, you look at it. You know exactly where you are. And... Now we put this on top. Beautiful sauce, as you can see, and all you have to do now is to arrange your crouton here and you see the crouton what you do, you dip the then in chopped parsley and put them here, or you can arrange them all At least one per person, you know. Now that, you can serve more at the table, maybe a little bit of herb also on top and here is our modern coq au vin, and now it's time to with our stew of red wine, from Burgundy, that's where I come from, a specialty of the area. We have a great meal for you today and the whole meal is in which is not too much, and of course the dish starts with that poached cod fish and if you don't have cod fish, of course, you can use another type on top of that tapanade mixture of capers, fig, and olive, and so forth, and with that, the with the boiled onion there, you know, glazed that there and the whole mushroom, the crouton, with that it's terrific. You have that with the mashed remember, and turnips, a salad all the time, I enjoy a salad, and finally your blueberry with the yogurt and the brown sugar. Look how beautiful the brown sugar has melt on the blueberry, and with that a wine from a (speaking in French) I enjoyed cooking that meal for you. Cook it for your friend and enjoy it. Happy cooking to you.