Prior to 2019, my wife and I were not the I'm not saying we were terrible, but we definitely amount of debt. $45,000 worth, spread across student loans, We were just dating at the time, and managing we weren't married yet, and although we each each. That was pennies compared to what we spent Luckily though, in 2019 we buckled down, got some huge lifestyle changes, and paid off yea 1 year. Fast forward to today, we're living 100% debt-free, our purchases in cash, including our wedding; and saving for a down payment on our first Now I know my tone is making this sound easy, in order to make this happen. Overall, the biggest impact was simplifying habits, and learning how to say no. I mean there were so many places where money were easily avoidable. So today, I want to share some of the main we don't anymore. But first I want to preface this conversation these things for any reason, this is not meant way. This is solely my list and things my wife One of the major lessons I've learned on this go of the embarrassment you feel about your If you don't, that embarrassment will weigh making it impossible for you to overcome, So, no shame and no judgment. Instead, I hope this conversation inspires &quot;I think I can do that too.&quot; Even if you've heard them before. Let's jump into it. Number one: Eating out and getting take out. Now to be fair, I'm sure this one is on everyone's I remember back when my wife and was my girlfriend, and we'd treat each other to a dinner date whenever we didn't feel like cooking, which pick up something to eat or order it in for Needless to say, we ate out quite often. Now if this sounds like you, here's a quick Don't stop eating out cold turkey. If you do it will be very difficult for you Instead cut back gradually over time. So, if you normally eat out 3-4 times a week. Try cutting back to twice a week to start some more. You'll have much better luck sticking to this it back over time. Number two: Fast fashion. Fast fashion is convenient, it's cheap, and And because of that, it's easy to find yourself it's a great deal. And if you don't have any self-control you'll you liked in store but don't actually wear Now to be honest shifting away from fast fashion However, after I decluttered my entire closet clothes. In fact, it's been years since I bought something rebuilding my wardrobe I've shifted my attention for my wallet, my closet, and my sanity. Everything that I wear now or look to purchase following categories: Practical--meaning I can wear it on most occasion. Versatile--meaning I can wear it in many and timeless--meaning I never have to worry about Now sometimes that means spending more on I'm still spending less than I would otherwise don't need and will never wear. If you're curious about what brands I'm currently description below for both men and women, Personally, these are my everyday t-shirts them out. Number three: The &quot;second&quot; grocery trip. How many times have you told yourself that really quick to pick up something I need. Maybe it's milk, or bread, or something specific But you end up spending a ton of money and you don't have a plan for. Consider me guilty. Now my wife and I both are planners. We meal prep, meal plan, and grocery shop plan for the most part. Now I say that because sometimes a second If we run out of something mid-week and we the key takeaway here is not to overspend True story for you. We have a grocery store literally right around Within walking distance so it's tempting to But one day we were cooking and we ran out So I kid you not, I went to the grocery store dimes, and bought what we needed. Sounds silly, I know but it helped with not Now I'm not saying you have to do what I did, of how much spend if you have to make an unplanned Number four: All organic, all of the time. Speaking of food, we cook just about all our We're also really big on the quality of food However, we've stopped buying all organic Now there are still a few things that we prefer we don't buy it. And this small change has saved us a ton on Number five: One-time purchases. So anything that we can't use more than once, For example, we haven't bought paper towels years. And instead, we use regular kitchen towels Now again this took some adjusting to because and paper napkins in the house. It was convenient and quite frankly easy to it. Unlike towels and linen napkins that require However, we managed to save money doing this expenses like buying paper towels for example Number six: Purchases on credit cards. The thing with credit cards is they give you It doesn't always feel like you're spending of your account. So when we buckled down and got our lives avoided credit cards and stuck to cash and That way we were always in control of how We also save up for large purchases and never we can pay for. For example, like our wedding. Number seven: Unnecessary subscriptions. As I'm sure you're familiar, this day and where ever they can, and on average the number for is crazy. Think about the apps on your phone, website boxes, tv, movie streaming, music streaming, goes on and on, with new options popping up It feels like everything has a subscription As an example, for the sake of conversation, other day and she texted me this exact message: was that?&quot; And you know what, I had to literally play charge was. And it turned out that it was a yearly subscription used in years. Let's just say that. I'm not perfect ok. See, I'm not against subscriptions, we have it's smart to take a look at your bank statements, manage your money, take a closer look at that If you're not using it, cancel it. Because if you're paying for it and not using of the exact dollar amount that subscription Number eight: Anything paid in monthly installments. Just like subscriptions, there are a ton of installments as a payment option. I don't like this idea because all it's doing this&quot; and &quot;do I have the money&quot; to &quot;how much Personally, I think this is an easy way to money than you actually have to spend because to low monthly payments. Making you believe you're getting a deal when a longer period of time thus preventing you Number nine: Being disorganized. Now as someone who practices minimalism, I'm organized and living in a clutter-free space Simply because everything we own has a home to find it. Being organized means you're less likely to or you find yourself growing frustrated because That usually leads to you buying it. And if you're really frustrated you'll probably in case. See, if you really want to save money then for the sake of not only your wallet but also Number ten: Living up to others' expectations. Let's be honest, we've all done this before. We've all bought something with the intention live up to their expectations. Whether it's clothes for an event you were people were coming over or something you saw We've all done it. I've done it and I've done it a lot. There's no shame in my game. And to be honest I'll probably slip up and But that's not the point. See as easy as it might be to do these things, actions is by being honest with yourself. And if you find that difficult, then find to call you out. For me, that's my wife, but if you don't have do it by yourself. The trick is owning up to your mistakes and So when you review your finances and you come to it, and accept responsibility. The best way to break habits like these is excuses for it. Number eleven: Buying out of boredom or habit. This is very similar to the last point I mentioned, struggle with this, and I may slip up here but really this is about keeping tabs on yourself The goal here is to avoid using money or spending Window shopping isn't a form of entertainment. It's temptation and should be treated as such. So don't put yourself in a position to feel things to don't need, just because you're Number twelve: Haircuts. This is one should be pretty obvious as to But even before I cut all of my hair off I or so. I mean I still cut my own hair now, it just However back when I was going to the barbershop a month on average. I was getting a hair every two weeks at $30 And to be honest I kind of got tired of spending some clippers and decided to teach myself since. Now really quick let's talk about hair products use them and the answer is yes I do. Both in my beard and on my head. So I have a beard conditioner and natural use leave-in conditioner and natural oils Believe it or not, when you don't have hair to take care of your scalp. This is a very sensitive area, at least for In fact, the first time I wore my hair like and I learned my lesson very quickly from So if you were wondering, yes I still use I hope you enjoyed this conversation and took If I said something that triggered an AHA think I can do that too&quot; then comment below Keep growing, keep learning and always stay I'll see you in the next one. Peace!