Igawa, I finally divorced Shi Muchen I'm coming to find you now. Ah! Jinchuan Yuwen you Over the years I just used a few sweet words You gave me endless money You also specially for me and the Xia family and the top ten absolute love You are really an idiot. Xia Yihuan, Lu Jingchuan, but I have thousands of choices The man specially prepared for you You really didn't let me down If you hadn't insisted on getting a divorce How can I get Shi Muchen? You are really my good sister, hahaha. So you're all in this together Hahahahahahaha This girl with the same name as me Xia Yihuan is such an idiot I can't see it Lu Jinchuan is your vicious girlfriend Ding Yuwei Sent on purpose to seduce you? He even abandoned his husband and children for him It pisses me off. If it weren't for Shi Muchen I've long since quit the show Xiao Wang serves Ah! The seats are already signed Since you're leaving Then I will fulfill you Where is this? I'm not cooking? Shen Mengchen, if you don't agree to divorce me I will die in front of you Dad, I'm scared! It's okay dad is here You go downstairs first Xiao Yuhua, you don't care Don't you even care about An An? Of course, if I hadn't drunk too much that night How could I have children with you? I feel sick just thinking about it. This is a time travel to the idiot in the show This is when they divorced So according to the plot behind I should go to Lu Jingchuan Then he was killed by him and Ding Wuwei Oh, my God. It's Shen Mengchen He is actually more handsome than in the show How blind is the original owner? Abandoning such a handsome guy for a dead scum And died But it's okay. It's too late now I can still change the ending When things are packed Let's go leave the Shi family Never come back again Husband, can we not get a divorce? Xia Yihua You are on a hunger strike again Killing again Don't you just want to force me to get a divorce? Now I have agreed What more lies do you want to play? I hurry up and sign Sin, this fool What did the original owner do? It's too difficult to make up with Shi Mucheng now HuanHuan This is the vicious female partner Ding Yuwei The original owner was still nice to her Look at her condition He also arranged a job as a top ten housekeeper for her Unexpectedly, he has been coveting Shi Muchen's deployment Even teamed up with scum Killed the original owner See how I treat him Shi Mushen has finally agreed to divorce you Huanhuan, congratulations. You're finally free. Right now you can be upright With Lu Jingchuan He agreed But who told you I agreed? Huahua, what do you mean? I've thought about it. I will not divorce Shi Muchen What are you talking about? HuanHuan Haven't you always wanted to be with Lu Jingchuan? Shen Muchen finally took it easy I just agreed to divorce you You said it too That was before I was blinded by lard before But now? I figured it out Me, my husband and my son Our family of three live well More important than anything Pardon me? Are you crazy? Quite the contrary. I just cured the wind disease Ah! One more thing. Without my permission in the future Don't come into my room casually again Find out who you are You are just a housekeeper Xia Yuwan, what's wrong? Just look at this face What a beauty Unfortunately, the original owner forced Shen Mengchen to divorce Never dress up at home scruffy You deliberately dress so ugly What a waste of this face Hey if I'll dress up now. Is there still a chance to find Shi Muchen? After all, men don't like beautiful women Ah, it's you. Ah! I read that right? The master's wife who just walked past Right? I didn't realize that my wife was so beautiful before. I got out of bed. Almost fell to the ground A nurse came to check the room He holds my husband. An'an Huanhuan, why do you look so good today? Ah, I see. You'll see later Dad I'm afraid Ah! Mom? Hug Get out of the way, you little tow bottle Mom? Do you really hate An An so much? Yes, I just hate you. If it weren't for you Your father divorced me a long time ago It was you who delayed my happiness OK Such a cute child Why is there such a mother on the stand? So poor. He just wants to be held by his mother Come to An'an's mother to hug Ambi hugs the umbrella What do you want? Don't be afraid Come to Aunt Di An An An is mine Now that you're ready to go Do you want me to call you a car? No no no You misunderstood. Shi Muchen, I want to tell you I will not leave the Shi family Xia Yihuan What do you want? What I said is true. I tore up the divorce papers I just want to be with you now And An An, continue to live a good life What do you think you said? Will I ever believe again? I know you don't believe me. But I will definitely prove it to you That's enough! Stop wasting our time with each other Do you really wish An An didn't have a mother? For An An It's a good thing not to have a mother like you An An's previous things were all wrong with her mother Mom now knows she was wrong Can An An give her mother another chance? Dad? For An An's sake If you don't want to go Just stay for now What! Yes continue effort Huanhuan, what's wrong with you? Did you quarrel with Jingchuan? Oh, it's normal for little couples to quarrel. Jingchuan is really good to you Don't miss him. Such a good man for you, do you want it? What are you talking about? We are good sisters. I don't want to see you miss it. I really love you, sister. What are you doing Xia Yihua, let me tell you I will not divorce Shi Muchen Never. No one wants to take Mrs. Shi's position Hello Lu Jingchuan Huanhuan, why are you here? Didn't you say no to the little master? Do you eat at the same table as the young master? Why didn't I change my mind? I am Mrs. Shi Am I not qualified to eat at the table? But you are a housekeeper Why so shameless You want to eat with us? The little young master has been unable to receive mother's love all these years He was anorexic. I've been cooking and feeding him all this time He takes a little bit more. Don't worry. Huanhuan, I have a professional chef qualification certificate. I can take care of her I am An An's mother I'll just do this kind of thing in the future An'an Mom will cook and feed you in the future, okay? Butler Ding used to take care of it. Just let him do it. Can I eat with you then? Whatever. Cuihua Are you finished? Can you eat well? Come to my husband to eat Hmm eat shrimp I am allergic to shrimp Ah! Sorry. An An's mother will definitely not forget it again in the future Did Xia Yuhua see it? Even if you change your mind You can't handle it in this house What chef certificate? I'm afraid it wasn't bought, right? Cooking is horrible An An is so pitiful I've never had a good meal since I grew up And anorexia. I have to figure out a way to improve the food Cure An An Madam, what's the matter? Never seen him cook before room Yes! Can the madam really cook? My God, Madam, this knife skill is too amazing, right? I seem to have seen the kung fu chef in the movie He can cook Hi, honey. Would you like some? Take care of my dignified chef Wow, we are working so hard. Are you still studying so late? Aunt Ding let me see it Say mom doesn't like me That's why I have to work harder than others every day Dad will like me Otherwise, An An will become a wild child no one likes No, it's not. An An's mother made a lot of mistakes before But mom already knew she was wrong Mom will change What does An An want to do in the future? Mom will be with you Really? Of course it's true. Come and try the noodles Mom cooked it for you herself How did it go? This is the first time An An has eaten her mother's cooking An An used to eat the food cooked by Auntie Ding Aunt Ding said that whether it tastes good or not An An has to finish eating before Dad will be happy This Ding Yuwei is too hateful Such a small child as PUA No, it's not. What do we like to eat in An'an in the future? Let's not eat anything If you like mom's noodles From now on, my mother will make it for you every day It's delicious An An never knew The world has such delicious food Everything you eat tastes the same Mom, you are amazing Mom will But it doesn't stop there. In the future, everything An An wants to eat will be wrapped on her mother Xia Yuhuan can actually make what An An wants to eat Why is this woman different? Still a kid Raiders, but An An is really pitiful I will take good care of him in the future If it weren't for the inner ring Not so much will happen later, right? But Xia Yuhuan What's wrong with him? He'd been dying to leave me. Negishi Why don't you want to leave today? Are you still deliberately trying to please me Negishi? He really changed his mind. He must have some purpose What are you doing here? Of course I'm here to sleep with you You forgot that we've been sleeping in separate beds for a long time, haven't you? Ah because I forgot Otherwise, I'll think again. What do you want? I came to apologize to you Oh, it's all my fault before. I already knew I was wrong. And I changed it all I will definitely not do this again in the future So let's start over, shall we? Talk about it later. No, I'm dressed like this Shi Mucheng shouldn't be bad, right? This trick again HuanHuan Yesterday, Igawa told me that he called you and you didn't answer. Why should I pick it up? I will never have anything to do with him again Huanhuan, I am your good sister. I will support you in any decision you make. But you have loved Igawa for so many years after all Even if you want to separate, you should meet and have a good talk So as not to have regrets, right? These two must be up to something again See how I treat you I think you're right actually. So so Then say goodbye I really agreed to meet the police OK I'm going to call the police now Let him come to the Shi family Today, Shi Muchen took An An to the hospital for a review. Got back late OK, then I'll contact you now. Hello He said yes. Do as I say. Baby Sorry. I'm late. What do you want to say? You have 10 minutes. Go away Baby Don't be so cruel to me! Go a few days I can't eat, I can't sleep. I feel like I'm dying without your news. Can you give me another chance? Damn scum really can act Today I don't betray society Oh, really? Let me see if this face is haggard Xia Yihuan, you really are You're acting. You're lying to me. I knew it! Xia Yihuan, you loved Lu Jingchuan so much back then How can it be possible to put it down? No one can save you this time Huanhuan, I knew you still had me in your heart Do you mean to be disgusting, I know? I haven't had dinner yet. You hit me? What are you? It is also worthy of polluting the air of the Shi family I'll tell your aunt. I was blind. A man as good as graphite dust would not want To see such a wolf-hearted thing as you But now Grandma Guo, my eyes are cured So I will never be scum by you again I lied to you, get out of here Huahua You're not leaving yet, are you? You don't even look in the mirror. See what you have compared to me Husband? Today I'm going to turn you into a vegetable Dragon Suppressing Eighteen Palms Ahhhhhh hahaha Ahhh Don't hit me, don't hit me, go I'm leaving. Climb for auntie Hey husband You are back. Mom Let's eat. Come in OK Xia Yihuan Hey Want some? OK Tomorrow is your grandpa's birthday Let's go back to our hometown It just so happens that your grandfather misses you very much Long time no see you OK. What about mom? Because of Lu Jingchuan before He made trouble with Shi Jia several times This time, he performed well in front of Shi Jia Opportunity Let Shi Muchen believe that I have really reformed I'm going to Muchen too It just so happens that I haven't been back to the old house for a long time And I've done a lot of things wrong before. I also want to apologize to my grandfather in person. As you like. husband Ah! There we go. Wow Mom, you are so beautiful today! Of course! See the elders Can't you drop the chain? Come on. young master Master, everything is packed We're good to go. HuanHuan Are you dressed to give something to the lady? You don't have to go this time What but It was me before But what but Bye bye. Why is Xia Yuhuan here? This Xia Yuhuan made trouble all day last time he came to Shi's house Still clamoring to let the old man give it to him Cancelled the marriage between the Shi family and the Xia family The old man is because of this? Angry and hospitalized for a month How dare you come today? Xiayuhuan You didn't run away with wild men before Are you going on a hunger strike to force my brother to divorce you? What are you doing at the Shi family? You are not welcome here What are you doing at the Shi family? I'm here to celebrate my grandfather's birthday If you say you are not welcome, you are not welcome. and I don't even know when the Shi family will be decided by you If it wasn't for you last time How did grandpa fall ill? How dare you come to celebrate grandpa's birthday? I was wrong about what happened last time. So I'm here this time I really want to give it to the old man And Shi Jia apologized? The weasel is not kind to the chicken Ge Xia Yihuan This time I definitely want to be at Grandpa's birthday party again Embarrass Shi Jia You hurry up and get him out of Shi Jia Me, my husband and my son Our family of three just needs to be neat and tidy. You let me go I won't go away, humph What's the noise? Grandpa! Come quickly. Hello, great grandpa. Xiao Ming Great grandfather Ah! Hey come come come Oh, dear. Has Grandpa Goldstein eaten well recently? OK Mom has cooked a lot of delicious food for An An recently An An has a good appetite An An is so nice By the way, my great-grandfather and mother are also here. Grandpa What are you doing here? Do you want to come and see if I'm dead? Grandpa, I was dizzy So it's for someone who doesn't love himself Do something that hurts everyone Me Now I just want to live a good life with Mu Chen and An An And honor you well I don't ask you to forgive me But I hope I hope you can give me another chance. What's the use of saying these high-sounding words now? If you had cherished Mu Chen well It won't end up so betrayed My teacher doesn't recognize a granddaughter-in-law like you Get out of here! Grandpa Lord, wait for me. Grandpa, this is the soup I made for you. And you make soup? I heard Mu Chen and An An mention it before You have old cold legs. So I specially added ginseng to this herb soup Deer horn and wolfberry Can help you replenish qi and blood and strengthen muscles and bones It is very helpful for your old cold legs. Please don't refuse me. This is the soup I made all night Stop bragging. Xia Yihuan You are a weekday I only know the lazy dominatrix How can it be possible to make a medicated diet with kindness? Who knows if your medicated diet is poisonous? Yingying is right Based on what you have done in the past How can I trust you? If my grandfather doesn't believe me You can call Dr. Li to come and have a look. sir Dr. Li Hurry up and see if this soup is poisonous Lest anyone with ulterior motives want to harm grandpa Wow This bowl of soup contains many precious medicinal herbs The nourishing effect is very good Added a lot of spices to taste It makes the soup taste rich It also reconciles the bitterness of traditional Chinese medicine That's just absolutely, truly amazing. Black Doctor Are you sure this set is okay? Miss Don't worry. I have been a doctor for over 40 years Never tasted it What about such a superb medicinal soup? Sir, if you drink it from time to time It's really good for your health. Are you sure you want to drink it? OK Sure enough, it tastes great, hahaha. Sakura, you really made this soup Yes, grandpa. In the future, I will often make soup for my grandfather to drink Grandpa, my mother's cooking is really delicious Oh, really? Even if you are today Even if you do well Hahahaha Do you often let your mother make soup for grandpa to drink? Ahaha OK. Hahahaha Humph I'm exhausted. I can finally come out and get some air Xia Yihuan stop Is something wrong? It just so happens that my brother has work to deal with now Just the two of us now I might as well tell you directly You and my brother will get a divorce sooner or later Really? Well, we'll see won't we. My brother won't like you well known My brother has already found a stepmother for An An Stepmother, you are talking about Ding Yuwei. Of course not the lowly housekeeper Jiang Yanran, the only daughter of the Jiang family, you should have heard of it, right? He and my brother But an old classmate I've known since college Now he has returned home You will be kicked out of the Shi family by my brother soon, right? What else do you want to say? If it's okay, I'll go first See you. you Could he be the white moonlight of Ishiki Chen? you You're done with work. What about An An? At grandpa's Having fun with grandpa Oh. Sit with me Ok, I'll be there right now Kangkang I fell asleep on Shen Muchen's shoulder Okay. OK I still have something to deal with Can you do it alone? Yes, I can. Call me if you need anything He asked me to call him Does this mean that I have succeeded in that small step? What's up? What do you want? An An, what are you doing? Apologize to An An I did nothing wrong. Why should I apologize? You just humiliated not only Ann And Ann hit him. Do you still think you did nothing wrong? I don't have it. If you don't apologize now I'll take what you just did Tell grandpa And your Uncle Muchen They all say you're crazy Who will believe what you say? Xiao Ming Mom, they both bully me Xia Yihuan, you still want to be shameless He actually bullied a child Don't turn right and wrong here The wicked report first It was your daughter who humiliated An An first. And I hit him. I've already recorded it all on my phone So what if you record it? It's just a little fight between the kids play small Your daughter scolds us first. An An has a mother and has no mother He also said that Muchen and I would divorce sooner or later He even hit An An If so You don't want to apologize Then I have to show the video to everyone in the Shi family Let them judge for themselves This little thing Why bother grandpa and the others? Wouldn't it be better if we were private? What's the matter, Xiaomian went to apologize to An An Sorry. Is an apology just a lip service? Now you have two options. First, either you slap your daughter three times Let her have a long memory Second, I told everyone in the Shi family about this. Next household case Don't push your luck. It seems that you have chosen the second path Go safe We complain The old man was biased towards An An Next, if you really tell the old man and my brother I and Xiaomian are in front of the old man Certainly not good No wait Ah! Ha mom hit me Ha dad Ah, if someone bullies you again in the future You give it back If you can't beat them Just tell mom Mom has a way Finally, I have my mother to protect me. Ah yes, the recipe Grandpa, this is the recipe I wrote for you. You eat three meals a day according to the recipe Will live a hundred years But I heard you never cook. Is the recipe you wrote reliable? Grandpa, I know you're still mad at me But I really hope you can take care of your body. If you don't believe me You can show Dr. Li me and Muchen Next time I will bring An An to see you. Ah, say goodbye to grandpa Bye, Grandpa Goodbye, come often, hahaha. Nutritional recipes Doctor Lee? See if this is reliable? Old man, this recipe is very good I didn't expect it. Your granddaughter-in-law is so proficient in diet therapy This girl Sure enough, it's not the same as before Thank you for today. I prepared these for grandpa Did I hear it right? Husband, are you saying thank you to me? It's okay, we are a family No thanks for this little thing Master, why did you come back so late? Come on, Ben Ann, give it to me You must be tired of hugging all the way Ok then be careful HuanHuan How about you go to the old house today? The Shi family didn't embarrass you, did they? Of course it didn't embarrass me They also asked When will Muchen and I have a second child? What! It seems that the Shi family doesn't know yet You and Shi Muchen have been sleeping in separate rooms for a long time, right? That was before What about the future? Xia Yihuan let you take the lead on that night 6 years ago Stole everything that should have belonged to me I'm not going to let it go. Hey, Shen Muchen, a straight man with no oil and salt When do you get it? Is he willing to sleep in a room with me? This time I must take down Shi Muchen Butler Ding So late Is there anything else? Master, you have a busy day today. Thank you for your hard work. I specially prepared milk for you. Drink it while it's hot Leave it there. What else? Young master, cold milk is not good for the stomach You'd better drink it now you I was thirsty. Butler Ding drank the milk you poured Do you mind? Husband? Don't accept drinks from other women in the future Are you all right? It's okay, why don't you go on? There is something wrong with this milk What's your trouble? This man is getting more and more handsome As expected of the best actor in my heart Shen Muchen Can I kiss you? What are you saying? Your lips look so good dear Forget it, you definitely won't agree You must still hate me Shi Muchen Why do you look so good? I can't hold it anymore Cuihua Do you know what you're saying? I see. I think OK Why is this still curved? Did graphite dust sleep here yesterday? What did I do last night? Ah, that's embarrassing. Mom, did you sleep with Dad last night? That's great, other kids' parents All sleep in one room I also want my parents to sleep in the same room In the future, parents will sleep in the same room, okay? Little master, let's eat first, okay? later Will Mom and Dad give An An another sister? Ah sorry Master, my hands were shaking just now I'll pack it up right away Butler Ding After breakfast, you can pack up and leave the Shi family. What! Master, what did I do wrong? Why did you suddenly drive me away? Historians do not stay inintegrity Remember that you and your wife are old acquaintances I can give you a compensation. Leave as soon as possible Ann let's go Hey what? Did you hear me? Ding Yuwen, you should leave the Shi family Xia Yuhua is you Right? What? It didn't mean that at all You must be driving me away You bitch Then you really wronged me How can I have so much power in the Shi family? Mu Chen, I can't help it if he wants to drive you away No, it's impossible. I wouldn't. Leaving the Shi family At the beginning, didn't you also rely on dead skin To stay? Then you try it. Humph Master, please don't drive me away I have worked hard in the Shi family these years Even if there is no credit, there is hard work Please let me stay young master I said where did the dog bark from? It was you Xia Yuhua, don't be too proud The young master will be soft-hearted The young master will definitely miss me I can't stay Master, please don't let me go Okay, stop shouting If you wake up An An Mu Chen won't let you go. Then I'll just stay here on my knees Until Ishiki Sung agreed to let me stay Ding Yuwei, why do you think Ishimucheng will leave you behind Such a vicious woman In Shijia It was I who pitied you and let you stay in the Shi family But you don't dare to ask I know that I have an engagement with Mu Chen I also found Lu Jingchuan Such a man who seemed to fit all my fantasies Come close to me I've done a lot of things wrong. But the most vicious person Isn't it you? Is this the one who has been plotting against me from the beginning? You are so stupid None of my business Summer Yuhua Why were you born as Miss Xia? Why were you born married to Stone Ranch? I just want you to betray each other Lose everything Too bad you won't get it Because you will be dragged out of the Shi family early tomorrow morning If you want to kneel, keep kneeling I will not accompany you To hell with that. Ah! Xia Yihuan, why don't you die yet? It should be me who sleeps from time to time Why were you robbed in the end? Why is that? Young master I've been kneeling here Please give me another chance, okay? roll young master I said go away Come Drag him out for me Never enter the door of the Shi family I don't want you, bitch You saw it all Actually, he had something to say. I used to be stupid Always hurts those who have always loved themselves It's all in the past Then let's start all over again Come on. Time for bed. Ah! Then can I have a room with you tonight? An An said he wanted his parents to live together As you like. And Ann waited for me A male bodhisattva who benefits humanity That I don't have yet. Really not You took my place. Oh. There will be a bidding meeting of Weisheng Group in two days. Important to current events You can bring family members. Come with me. Can I go, too? Certainly. You are Mrs. Shi It's getting late. Are you going to bed? OK I promise to complete the task I won't embarrass you. Mr. Li, Mr. Li Long time no see. How about that project recently? how's it going? I heard your brother Look who's here Muchen long time no see Jiang Yuran I heard that when Miss Jiang and Mr. Shi were in college Just a pair of golden boys and girls This time Miss Jiang returns to China It should be to find Mr. Shi Yes, Miss Jiang is beautiful. Will run the company again Only such a woman is worthy of Mr. Shi brother You and Miss Jiang are so far away and so compatible Quartz It's not that you don't know that I'm married Mu Chen I heard from Yingying that you are recently divorcing your wife Are you guys okay? Don't bother Miss Jiang My husband and I have a very good relationship. Which lady is this? So pretty I heard that she just called Mr. Shi's husband That should be Mrs. Shi You see, they're all dressed in white. Mrs. Shi is more girly than Miss Jiang Mu Chen And this is... He is my wife Xia Yuhua Hello Miss Xia I am Jiang Yanran I'm an old classmate of Muchen We were catching up just now Don't be jealous How come? I feel at ease with my husband Shi always has a cooperation I want to chat with you Is it convenient to speak further? Husband, go socialize first I can do it alone. Ok don't run around I'll find you when I'm done. OK Miss Xia seems to be bored alone. Miss Xia seems to be bored alone. What's the matter with Miss Jiang? There were so many people just now. A lot of things are inconvenient to say Miss Xia is indeed young and beautiful What a pity! Young and beautiful are the least valuable What a woman really retains is her value Man Is not going to choose a woman who is useless to her Especially someone like Mu Chen. Miss Jiang is too self-defeating to say this Although you are not married at the age of 30 But what? You should believe that there is true love in this world There is always someone He only wants you Don't want your money Good idea. I'll see what happens. Let's see if Muchen is true to you Mu Chen, let me introduce you This is Li Linlin, the chief assistant of VIA Group This is what I've been telling you about Shi Muchen, the president of the Shi Group Mr. Shi often hears Mr. Jiang mention you Hope to have the opportunity to cooperate with you. My pleasure. Something special? You see that? My brother and sister Yanran are a match made in heaven Unlike some clowns who only stay home with babies I just want to enjoy some more time with An An Unlike you There is nothing else to do at home except take care of the children Don't put me and you together in an analogy Stop bragging. What can happen to a trash like you? I'm too lazy to talk nonsense with you. Stone hammer My brother and sister Yanran are going to become Wow, Yanran is really a lady So temperamental The one next to you Isn't it Li Lin, assistant to the chairperson of Weisheng Group? It must have been introduced to us by Yanran Muchen Yanran is very capable I want this aunt How did it go? Retreat despite difficulties Return Good to know Did I say it was me? See for yourself What! That You go first Jiang Yanran and I are just college classmates Usually no friendship Just at the bidding meeting Let's just talk about some business matters Are you trying to explain to me because you're afraid I'll misunderstand? You can put it that way. What about you, what do you want to tell me? I want to find a job I want to find a job I know you are rich But I don't want to be one The little white rabbit that will only hide behind you I also want to shine in my field of expertise be recognized Let Ann and you be proud of me Did someone say something to you? No, I really think so myself. I want to walk with you Ok, I respect your decision. My husband is so nice Xia Mingyu Isn't this the original owner's brother? Why don't you try it here? Just in time to repair the relationship with the Xia family Two birds with one stone! It seems that this is the restaurant opened by the original owner's brother It looks pretty good. What is this called? This can also be served to guests Call your boss I complain to you. Excuse me? Our head chef is not feeling well and has asked for leave. You see, I'll arrange for someone to redo it for you. Redo it. At your level If you redo it 800 times, it will be for nothing. Anyway, I'm going to eat this meal today If you're not satisfied, I won't pay. Hey I see you are here for the Overlord meal, right? What's up? This is the original owner's brother, right? Mr. Xia This person wants to eat the overlord meal Hello, I'm the owner of this restaurant. Let me know what you need. I will try my best to satisfy you. It's Xia Mingyu I today It's a special dish for your Xia's cuisine peerless double pride peerless double pride Wow mom This dish is delicious What's it called? It's called peerless double pride This is mom A stand-alone dish It means you and Mingyu It's all mother's pride Mom gives you the secret recipe You have to keep it safe. In the future. Perhaps you will also have two adorable babies Just like mom. Ah! How do you know this dish? Did you know my mother? When I was down six months ago Click on the first place. accidentally I ate this peerless double pride that your mother made for me I don't know what's wrong. And suddenly, there was hope. After growing up Whether I have money in my pocket or not Your mother always made me eat this bite Hey, why are I telling you this? Anyway, this time I came to Yicheng Just to get back the taste of the past My mother was a remarkable woman. Too bad she passed away a few years ago I'm afraid this world No one can make this dish anymore she She's gone. As a child of the Xia family I can't even make my own mother's signature dish Then don't call it Xia's cuisine. Consuming your mother I'll call now to complain. Let your unfilial son's restaurant go out of business Who says no one can make this dish? Who says no one can make this dish? Xia Yihuan The little girl is not old. The tone is not small Even his own son can't do it Why would you do it? Just because I am his daughter My mother once passed me the recipe for this dish If you can trust me Why don't you let me try it in the back kitchen? OK Then I'll just wait here. If you can't do it From now on, don't order Shishi Cuisine again Consuming your mother OK. Xia Yihuan Haven't you caused enough trouble for the Xia family? Brother, I know I used to do too many stupid things But please believe me. This time, I will definitely save the Xia family's face I won't smash my mother's sign Mr. Xia Is your sister really okay? I see a rascal outside Why bother with her? Take a look inside. It's all because the Xia family has to marry the Shi family I don't want to marry a man as boring as Shi Muchen peerless double pride Slice two pieces of meat Add soy sauce bean paste What broken method I don't want to learn It's bad luck when you see the next thing Princess, this rebellious white-eyed wolf To help my mother leave such a precious secret recipe All torn Let me atone for my sins Wow, your sister is too awesome this summer, right? When will Xia Yuhuan cook? Serve Uh, yeah. OK The look is right That's the smell. I've been thinking about this taste for more than ten years Finally ate today Thank you girl She can actually taste like her mother I didn't expect your sister to be so caring To be able to do your mother's best I'm superficial I misunderstood you. I am satisfied with this meal today I will come often in the future As long as you are satisfied Get busy, get busy brother For the sake of my good performance today Do you forgive me for my previous mistakes? Nonsense Want to be forgiven It wasn't easy. I have another restaurant in Yicheng The chef just left You can try it at the restaurant over there if you want Really bro I will definitely do well Mucheng, it's lunch time soon I heard there's a new chef at a restaurant up ahead Very impressive. Business is very good Why don't we try it? I do not Mainly this time, Shi's Group The matter of bidding for the project of Weisheng Group this time Mr. Li last time Yes, I have some questions for you. He seems to be very busy lately. Always come out early and come back late I don't know what I'm doing. Mu Chen Okay, let's go. What do you need? I want one of these. Okay, Muchen, how about you? Get me an ice American Ah! Ok, wait a minute. Chef Xia Chef Xia, there's a handsome man outside I have never seen such a handsome man in my life Look at you How handsome can it be? No matter how handsome he is, can he be more handsome than my husband? But that handsome guy seems to have a wife What did his wife call him again? Why is this handsome guy's name so handsome? Mu Chen See if it's handsome Good guy didn't send me WeChat all morning It turned out to be with Jiang Yanran What about their order? Ah, here it is. You go and tell them. Let's say the chef specially arranged for them Our store's spree package Let them stay tuned Ah! Chef Xia, what's wrong? Mu Chen, I heard Yingying say that you returned the Shi family's group. Is it because of me? No, I just don't want anyone else Destroy my relationship with Miss Jiang Miss Jiang Muchen When did we become so rusty? We are old classmates after all Just a classmate Besides, I'm already married. Please also pay attention to Miss Jiang No. Excuse me, 2 people have leftovers. Are you mistaken? I didn't order these dishes. That's right, our chef specially ordered it. A spree bag for you. What! Green tea spree He said it is suitable for green tea like yours. What! Who is your chef? Why would you do that? What a coincidence, Chef Xia He's your husband. Ah, I'm going to change the food on the table first So you are the chef here You prepared these dishes. Of course, yeah. Come to my husband to eat chives As for you Eat more green tea cakes If you choke, drink some Longjing green tea This is good tea Who do you think is green tea? There's no one else here No, are you talking about my husband? Miss Xia, I didn't offend you. Why are you targeting me Jiang Miss, I haven't had time to thank you yet What did you say to me at the bidding that day? I have now found my career And it's still developing well So your career is to be a cook But I don't think it's doing very well. I think it's delicious Let's talk about Muchen's bidding next time. I've had my fill. I'll go first Hey, I haven't eaten yet. What a waste Xiaoyuhua brother Hahaha brother Just received this earnings report today After you come to nurture We more than tripled our profits. Doing well That's fine. But it's not enough just to please me Come on, go home Dad doesn't say anything But I can tell he still misses you Got it, bro. Mu Chen is here too! Oh. Then I won't disturb you. brother Oh, thank you kindly. Thank you for your willingness to give me a chance Thank you for believing in me. Silly girl, I'm your brother Correct if you know your mistake Brother is proud of you brother To hug Hey Hahahaha Ah ah ok I'll go first, haha. Mrs. Xu is very generous When did you start giving a man a hug? Is that my brother? Hey Shi Muchen, are you jealous? jealous How is that possible? I have something to do, I'll go first I'll pick you up after get off work in the evening. How is it? Delicious crisp on the outside and tender on the inside Delicious meat Wow! This soup is so delicious that I can't speak. It smells so good. Mommy Mommy What are you cooking? These 3 They are all newly developed dishes by Mommy. Are you trying the dishes? Would you like to try it? OK. How did it go? Wow, isn't that delicious? Mommy is awesome The chef on TV is awesome Of course! Your mommy me Not just a chef And it also knows kung fu Mommy is An An Fall down and hug Mommy's thigh All right. Go to bed. Mommy, I heard about winning a man's heart Take him first Please let Daddy taste your cooking! Where did you hear all that? Would you like to try that? OK How did it go? Is it delicious? delicious Really? I'll try it. OK It's getting late, I'll go up and rest first Hey I read that all the overbearing CEOs in the novel use this trick Could it be that this trick doesn't work on Evening Mushen? OK As expected of me Fell asleep so soon Did you just speak? Did I wake you up? What's up? I want to ask if you can accompany me back to Xia's house tomorrow Here it is. Or else? Shen Lao Chen is angry with him, what do you know? The world is impermanent. What's going on? Hey, Mr. Shi I heard that my unfilial daughter went to your birthday banquet again Didn't cause you any trouble? Hey What else did you say? He was the one who had to run away with the little white face He is also the one who is staying in the Shi family now Who knows what's wrong with the stomach? Master Xia I came here this time mainly to talk about Xia Yihuan, this child Dad? Xia Yihuan Dad, I'm back. Why are you back? I said that I am Xia Zhengqian Without you, my daughter Xiaojia doesn't welcome you to get out Dad, I came back this time to tell you I will not divorce Muchen I want to spend the rest of my life with him Pardon me? Dad, I know you're still angry But I'm back this time I really just want to say sorry to you. Since you are still angry I'll go first then. Take care of your body. Stop Now I know wrong Do you want to have a good time with Mu Chen now? Have you ever thought about the old man? Do I agree? That is. Grandpa's wedding He meant it. Stop protecting your wife. Grandpa is right It was my fault. You can punish me however you want. Is that what you said? old man Grandpa grandfather you Let go of me Really. Grandpa, this is This is our Shi Jiazu The passed table will be transferred to you today. You should understand what it means, right? What grandpa What are you doing? How can you believe Xia Yihuan? Hey Say less Hurry up and have a second child This man's golden age? That's all. Grandpa still wants to hug a great-granddaughter earlier Grandpa, we'll try our best tonight Don't let grandpa down, you two Well, what did grandpa say? Since Mr. Shi has spoken I won't say much more. Hahahaha Dad, thank you for protecting me just now I knew you must still love me in your heart Okay? Alas self-righteous Ha ha. Crazy is crazy daddy It actually scared the bracelets of the ten ancestral families What! Damn Xia Yihuan A cheating woman Why can the Shi family forgive him so easily? Don't you just know how to cook? I don't believe I can't learn Brother Liu OK You have been coming to eat with me for a month Still not tired OK No, no. When will Xiaoxia teach me how to cook a few dishes? OK. For the sake of taking care of our Xia's business so much I won't charge you tuition. Hahaha Look good. That's it. I thought it was amazing When I learn, I will definitely do better than you. Hum OK Is Miss Gun stealing? Why don't you come in? I can still give you a discount. What nonsense are you talking about? I don't want to learn Don't think that if you know how to cook, Muchen will fall in love with you I'll tell you what. There is no shortage of cooks around Mu Chen Will he fall in love with me? I don't know. But I know. Definitely won't fall in love with you That's not necessarily true. I will replace Muchen Won the bidding project of Weisheng Group this time When is the time? He will definitely look at me differently Victory Group Exactly. It is the monopoly of Yicheng and Haicheng Victory Group Just look at your poor body Tuolao hat and you You don't understand OK Mr. Jiang Please stop cooking, okay? The layoffs at this company? Not such a ruling What do you mean? Is it not delicious? You say Mr. Jiang, your food is really delicious I want to go to the toilet, so do I Is it that bad? Isn't that what Xia Yihuan did this time? Why can't I do it? To celebrate fortune Restaurant sales have doubled again this month Tonight, I'll treat everyone to drinks Ok thank you thank you Sister Yihuan, since you came to our restaurant Our turnover is getting better and better. You are really a blessing to all of us. Yeah, Yihuan You really are my Muse Go go go go Cheers. Sister Yihuan is here to respect you Come come Baby, then I respect you too Here. Cheers. Come and wish our restaurant better and better. Follow Sister Yi Huan to make the restaurant bigger and stronger Cheers. Take the staff to relax tonight and come back later Long time no see. Why was this snubbed by your wife? Are you free to ask me for a drink? How is that possible? Dad, look, mom has been snubbing us lately Is it that we are no longer attractive to him? Unattractive? Is it true? Is there any way to attract girls? Oh, fashion is really an iron tree blooming Let me tell you something. You found the right person today It's your treat. How about I give you a free class? Hey, do you understand seduction? Your face is white Don't waste such a good condition Forget it, forget it. How can I find a seagull to hug me? Chasing girls Hey, how do you talk? Be careful your wife runs away again Why are you not dumb? Hi. Go one Ha ha. Ha ha. If you serve me well today This card is yours. Don't worry, honey. Xia Yuhuan, why are you here? Why did you come out just after being beaten? Here to pick up the guest What nonsense I don't understand. This lady I tried the little white face you ordered for you. Technology is poor Keep your money for yourself Pardon me? waste of time roll i Xia Yihuan What nonsense are you talking about? When did I sleep with you? Wow I see. You're playing hard to get I figured it out and wanted to have something exciting with me Right? I didn't dislike Xia Yuhuan You and Shi Muchen already have children How dare you hit me? Don't bark in front of me I'll show you how powerful I am today Let you never get rid of me again release Light rain flower Uh-huh. Ahhh Are you all right? Shen Mochen, why are you here? I go home I'll leave it to you. OK Lu Chen I really don't know why Lu Jinchuan is there You trust me. I know you have a good rest Oh, thank you kindly. Do you understand seduction? Your face is white Don't waste such a good condition Xia Yihua I don't want to take it anymore What tea do I drink? There is something wrong with my company. Let's go first, I've prepared breakfast for you Get up and remember to eat This Man Is everything really perfect? Mom? Tomorrow is Dad's birthday I want to give him a painting How do you think I draw? What tomorrow is Ishiki Cheng's birthday? Damn the original owner I must have never given Shi Mucheng a birthday So I'm not impressed at all An An draws really well Mom wants to go out now and pick out a present for Dad Can An An accompany her mother? Mom wants to give Dad a good birthday Ok An An has never seen Dad on his birthday He will be very happy. Let's go then. OK Ah, it's finally done. Mom, I'm hungry. What does An An want to eat? Mom's treat Mom? Is burger okay? Just once, Dad didn't let An An eat these before An An never I haven't eaten, mom, please Who can stand such a cute baby acting like a spoiled child? Xia Yihuan What about the baby? Xia Yihuan What about the baby? Yes, this is me and Mu Chen's son Have you never seen it? How is it cute? Is he as handsome as Mu Chen? Are you giving your kids all this junk food? It seems that you are not a qualified mother anymore Not aunt I want to eat it myself It's not mom's fault You know if your dad knew You eat these non-nutritious things But be angry. It's okay if the child is not sensible Adults don't understand Jiang Yanran, why do you think You can lecture me. Have you ever been a mother? How do you know how to take care of children? Besides, I'm a professional chef What can I eat? What can't be eaten? I know better than you What's so great about chefs? Can you be the president? I'm not like you Muchen and I are business allies And you just swing the spoon Yes, I am indeed different from you. I disdain to be like you Ann let's go Mu Chen, I just met your son, he looks so cute. But such a cute child Or try to eat as little junk food as possible It's not good for you. An An eats slowly Did you have a burger for lunch? So soon to apologize for your old classmate You have a good relationship Did I say something? You are angry How can I be angry? But don't be angry Don't worry, it's the burger fries I gave An An I will be responsible. Where are you now? On the way home OK What else does this Jiang Yanran do besides provoking? Is mom and dad angry? Ah, don't eat these anymore Dad is not angry Burger fries are edible We only eat occasionally It doesn't matter. Yuhuan Mountain An An's mother has the right to decide what An An eats Don't bother outsiders Order me a family bucket outsider Birthday party tomorrow I'll show you how important my nephew is Ah! Come have fries Dad, can I really eat it? OK You eat too Do not eat Really don't eat Do not eat I'm going to buy all this junk food Do you think I'll still be angry? You are Ann Mom, of course I'm on your side Honey, don't be angry. I didn't catch what you said just now. Wife That's more like it. Don't eat too much. All right, Mom. Come and try it. Well, I'll forgive you this time. Then get another one. Cheers. Cheers. What about the wife and the young master? madam I'm preparing a birthday party for you outside with the little master He actually remembered my birthday Hey Finally set up According to the time, they should be here soon. Oh, dear. Not bad. Ahahaha Li Huan You have worked hard Grandpa is what I should do Great grandfather Grandpa, please Oh, oh, how nice! Grandpa, go inside and play for you, haha. glib Xia Yihuan What about Muchen? Miss Jiao, why don't I remember inviting you? You are uninvited I came here specially to give Muchen a birthday gift. You as Mrs. Shi I don't think it would be so stingy Of course! How could I be angry with an outsider? Xia Yuhuan is just waiting to make a fool of himself What can I do for you? Just rest well without the birthday girl Oh, dear. I thought how good were you at cooking? It used to be just barbecue You know barbecue has a lot of carcinogens in it. Bake it and eat it What do you mean? Today is Muchen's birthday How can you let us eat? What about these things that are not on the table? Barbecue is just a side dish Don't worry, there will be a main course later. So you mean if I eat for a while The old man will eat it, of course What's the matter, Miss Jiang? Do you think it doesn't taste good? If it doesn't taste good I won't give it to grandpa and the others. No, I'll eat it now. I must make Xia Yuhuan embarrassed in front of the Shi family I can only endure it for a while It's delicious. If it's delicious, then you should eat more. No, no. I've had my fill. full Let's serve the main course then. What? And a main course? These skewers have so many carcinogens Of course we won't. Let's go in for dinner Let's go Xia Yihuan dares to deliberately piss me off Wow Isn't the meal today rich? You did all this. Of course, yeah. Dad, this is my birthday present to you. Thanks, honey. Dad loved it. Mu Chen Your aunt and I don't know what to give you. I bought you some pyramid jewelry Take a look. YES YES YES Be careful No, we bothered. Let's go brother I asked a friend to customize a suit for you abroad. I'll get it to you when it arrives. What about you? You're not prepared for anything, are you? Husband, I want to give it to you alone at night. OK Make it mysterious I'm afraid it's not that I can't take it out, right? Sister Yanran, you must have prepared a gift for my brother, right? This is the project cooperation letter of Fraser Group I took it down specially for Mu Chen As a birthday present for him It is the largest enterprise, Weizheng Group Can get this project The assets of our Jiang Group are at least doubled Ah! That's right, grandpa. How about Muchen? Do you like this gift? This is really the project you got. As far as I know The chairperson of VIA Group is still away on vacation How did you meet him? Why is this old hat here again? Xia Yuhuan actually got so close to such a person Project cooperation letter between Visheng Group and Shishi Group What are you doing here? But there is I will definitely let Muchen know about this contract. I am the most suitable one for him We happen to have some people in the Jiang family So I specifically asked where the chairperson was on vacation I went to meet the chairperson specially Just won this cooperation Sister Yanran, you are too amazing Sure enough! Only a strong woman like you is worthy of my brother Not like some people. You can't even be a good helper Yanran, can you handle such a big order? It's really a blessing for our Shi family. Yeah, yeah. The key is Yanran He still has a soft spot for our Muchen family Just a pity These are all things I should do for Mu Chen and the Wei family Brother Muchen, just accept it I'm not at the point where I need your help. Mu Chen Do you know how many people can get this opportunity? How about Jiang Yinger? I made it very clear to you. You and I are just ordinary friends. Please. Don't involuntarily interfere in the affairs of my Shi family anymore What are you saying? Mu Chen, don't you understand? You are only with me Can I really help you? That's right, Yanran Jie is much better than Xia Yihuan Mu Chen Listen to uncle's advice No matter what you think of Yanran You shouldn't take the future of the Shi family to get angry? You still accepted the project that Yanran fought for you, right? Okay, say less I think This matter is still up to Mu Chen to make his own decision Wait for the chairperson of the health group to come back I'll make it clear to him. Hope to have the opportunity to cooperate with them. But forget it this time Don't worry about it. Here I come. It's You It's You Surprise or not Is it surprising? Sejong, I am the chairperson of Weisheng Group My name is Liu Wei. I came to Yichang this time. In search of a Smell is important to me It was your wife who made this dream come true for me So This cooperation agreement is to thank your wife I voluntarily donated it to the Shi Group So it's because of me Exactly. originally This contract is on your dining room table But I don't want to be brought here by people with ulterior motives Fake the credit Really bold You are talking nonsense. Don't think you rent a decent dress You can pretend to be the chairperson of Visheng Group This contract I got it through my own hard work. What does it have to do with you? Since Mr. Liu said his contract was lost at the restaurant Then I'll send someone to the restaurant to retrieve the surveillance If you don't know if there are any thieves, you can't Even if I took this contract from the restaurant How do you prove it? Are you the chairperson of Weisheng Group? As you said I am indeed not the chairperson of Vista Group now But he is Feisheng Group From now on, it will be handed over to Xia Yihuan What! What! Remember what I once said to you? come Ha ha. Hmm, Xia? When I retire How about handing over my company to you? Brother, stop bragging If you have a company How can you still have time to come to me to eat every day? It turns out that what you said the other day was true Xiaoxia, you are a good boy. As kind as your mother Leave the company to you? I'm very relieved, hahaha. Thank you, big brother. So can I get a new job? Certainly! Do whatever you want I want to cancel All cooperation between VIA Group and Jiang Family Let the Jiang family go bankrupt Okay, I'll order it now What! Xia Yihuan, you actually colluded with a street liar Come to Muchen's birthday party to act It's ridiculous Isn't our Jiang Group still doing well now? Hello What! Jiang's Group went bankrupt Is that true? You really became the chairperson of Weisheng Group Jiang Yanran Didn't you always laugh at me for becoming Can't you be the president? Now I am the president. But you are nothing Also, please don't underestimate the mother of a child Woman who gave birth It's definitely not the so-called trash in your mouth To my mom is the best mom in the world Why do you say that? What's so great about you? You are just the right to be expelled from the house by the Xia family How brave Dare to speak rudely to the daughter of my Xia family Dad brother Good daughter When do you want to come back? The Xia family will always be your home Little sister, welcome back to the Xia family grandfather uncle Hahaha ah come Call grandpa for a hug How could this be? How could I lose? That's impossible. Mrs. Shi Prepare my present at the dinner table tonight It's not a pretense, is it? No, it's not. We've been married for so long No pair of diamond rings belonging to us yet. So I went and picked this pair on purpose Our wedding ring I'll put it on for you. Do you like it? Yes, I like it very much. I'll put it on for you. Wife This birthday is the happiest day of my life Thanks. Let's spend every birthday together, okay? OK Remember what grandpa said When two people have the best relationship The baby is also the most beautiful Otherwise, we're going to have a second child tonight Pardon me? Hey, hey, hey. Shen Mengchen put me down Hey Let go of me! Mr. Xia Our car will arrive soon. Well please let me in I can do anything Mopping, sweeping, cooking, washing dishes Your health group is so big. There must be a job I can do Where did the beggar come from? Go away This is not where you beg for food I am not a beggar I used to be a top ten housekeeper You asked me to meet your new CEO He will definitely arrange a suitable job for me Our new president is not something you can meet if you want to Don't look in the mirror See what you look like Long time no see! Ding Yuwei Xia Yihuan What are you doing here? Aren't you looking for the president of WeChat? Yes, I am. You are an idiot How could he be the president of the micro-business group? Look at us both now Seems like you're more like that idiot Okay, I have something to do, so I'll go first Keep an eye on him. Don't let him step into Visheng Group Ok Mr. Xia HuanHuan You really are the new president of Victory Group For the sake of our best friends for many years Just help me I'll starve if I can't find a job Good girlfriend, what kind of good girlfriend are you? I was already very tolerant of you when I let you leave the Shi family I don't want to see you again Ah! It hurts. Xia Yihuan, since you left me with nothing Then I will destroy you Are you the new waiter? I don't seem to have seen Shi Cai before Yeah, okay. Hurry up and serve these dishes to the guests, okay? Alas, finally done. I promised An An and Mu Chen to have lunch together They must be in a hurry What's the matter, Xiao Li? Sister Sakura just All the customers in our restaurant have got food poisoning It is said that there is a problem with the dishes in our restaurant. What should I do? What? I'll be right there. I'm done with it. He has now driven away Xia Yihuan, go to hell Oops, my brakes have been tampered with Dad, it's so late. Why hasn't mom come back yet? Come have lunch with us Waiting for dad at home Working hard for so long Finally with Mu Chen And An An has lived the happy life I dream of Can't I still change the ending of my tragic death? An An Dad Brother and grandfather I miss you so much Shen Mochen, are you crazy? You should go It's dangerous Are you all right? I'm okay, are you okay? As long as you're okay Why are you so stupid? Never see you again It's okay, we don't have to be apart anymore. I'll take you to the hospital Sister Sakura, our restaurant just found out Poisonous mushroom powder is added to all dishes Now the guests have been sent for gastric lavage. The guests are fine But our restaurant may be going out of business. Our restaurant Did anyone suspicious come by today? No. There seems to be a new waiter in the back kitchen today. I feel a bit invisible Go and call up the monitoring Yeah. All the surveillance videos of Sister Sakura are here Ding Yongen Ding Yuwai, we have done such a big thing Now it's a grasshopper in a boat I have to leave the city tonight Otherwise We'll both die This Gates' summer ring Put me in this situation But now he's dead. We also take revenge Okay, let's go. Where are you two going? Shi Muchen, why are you here? Shi Muchen, let me tell you Xia Yihuan's car was tampered with by me He should have been hit by a car on the road by now Hurry up and collect his body So it's you? So what if it's me? He's a stupid woman I thought he would always be used by me I didn't expect him to return to his family Now you humiliate me over and over again It's ridiculous He deserves to die If your husband is injured, please rest well. These two people will be handed over to Wu Xia. You are not dead That's not possible. How could you possibly still be alive? Sorry to disappoint you. Not only am I not dead and I'm going to personally send you both to jail today What goes to jail? I don't understand. Lu Jingchuan You just said that you tampered with my brakes I have recorded it. And you Ding Yuwei You pretended to be a waiter that day Video of poisoning in my kitchen I have handed it over to the police. Meeting you is the greatest misfortune of my life Today I will end this misfortune Start all over again What about cherry blossoms? You bitch That's not fair. Why can you live well? I can't. Where am I worse than you? Through the misfortune of others like you To achieve happiness You should reflect on it in prison for the rest of your life Take him away from me! Ah! HuanHuan Don't be so cruel to me These are all what Ding Yuwei instructed me to do I didn't mean to hurt you from start to finish. Huahua, what are you doing? Today I will show you my unique skill cut in the air Ah! Ah! Ah! Ahhhh! Baby Is that okay? Don't disgust me, get out How many secrets do you have that I don't know? There are many more Let's go home Dad, can you do it? Dad can do it for sure Long time. The young master has also started cooking What do you know? That is the young master's love for our wife I read that right? Shen Muchen can cook Come wife Would you like to try this dish I made? Then I'll reluctantly try it It's not that bad, is it? Honey, are you alright? Yeah. Hey I seem to have What's there? Our daughter? daughter You mean? I'm going to be a dad again Wife thank you I Love You I love you too. This is our happy ending