This time our Northumberland journey takes an town of Alnwick. Established as a bustling market for trade and commerce leaving its charming by modernisation. Steeped in centuries of history years Alnwick Castle will be a highlight of our on the castle and will explore its grounds and we'll uncover hidden gems like the original a global phenomenon housed in a quaint visit a historic hotel with an incredible Join us for a delightful tour of Alnwick We are used to traffic jams on the M25 but this way to Alnwick on the last day of our stay in turn your engine off and let the baby! God they get very close. Look at these babies! lovely Oh! mind the wing mirror! Look at this little one, doesn't know what to do! Oh! Did he hit us? A little bit. What, on the wing mirror? Yeah Alnwick is one of Northumberland's most no modern buildings and the traditional We'll take a walk around the town later in the we park the car at the Castle and Gardens. That's all done, make your exit gates bottom right-hand The grounds of the castle and the gardens some pretty paths from the car park, about Now the castle and the gardens are so we need two different tickets and we've into the gardens and concentrate on the castle we're looking at nearly PS80 plus the parking so just to do one of the two and we think the castle The Gardens open at 9:00 a.m. and are artistry and imagination created in 2001. Its of Northumberland established the first gardens, In 1997 the Duchess of Northumberland spearheaded a into one of Alnwick's premium attractions. Today and the infamous &quot;Poison Garden&quot;, a locked You can even dine amongst the trees at The wooden furniture and authentic treetop setting, or We arrived around 9:30 in the morning and didn't until the gates open at 10:00 a.m. You're so we passed the time having a look There's also a lovely vegetable garden We hadn't pre-booked so were held up online in advance and all the details are As we step onto the grounds we catch our first glimpse of nicknamed &quot;The Windsor of the North&quot;, second largest inhabited castle in England It stands as a magnificent example of medieval origins dating back to the 11th century. When However, it's the Percy family whose now for over 700 years. Throughout its long it has served as a strategic military outpost, a safe haven for evacuees during times for film productions and most importantly As we enter the Lion Arch take a moment are several activities and tours historical grounds walk and talk and broomstick Some of these tours require you to book The de Vesci family first built a standard motte to deter any Scottish incursions. In the upgrading the castle defences and befitting the Anglo-Scottish border skirmishes. William the to defeat the defences in 1172. Northumberland's when Henry de Percy bought the castle the bishop of Durham who had acquired the land significant step in solidifying the family's The castle became not just a fortress for defence and rubbed shoulders with royalty. The second Baron Percy also named Henry made substantial improvements to the castle's size and defences These efforts reflect the turbulent times and Among the notable figures of the Percy born within the castle walls the eldest Henry Percy and his wife Margaret Neville. His of the ruthless King Henry III. Harry embodied he gained renown for his military prowess earning a reputation as a fearless warrior speed on the battlefield and readiness to attack. the 1300s remained somewhat elusive it's clear his character and his destiny. However, his a battle with the King of Shrewsbury, taking an Hotspur's legacy as a bold and charismatic leader lived character in his play Henry IV and he shares as Percy's descendants owned land in the A statue of him was unveiled by the current Duke of As we walk into the outer bailey many of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, when he Back again at Alnwick in The Chamber father's Ford Anglia into the grounds returning Booked time slots allow excited children to reenact scenes Other notable films using the castle as Elizabeth, Black Adder, Becket, Dungeons and The 15th century proved to be a tumultuous period tribulations, embroiled in a series of rebellions a long shadow over the family. His father the rebellion but was eventually killed in a battle in by the crown during these conflicts. Despite this, in the century. The second Earl of Northumberland estates were restored. He played a crucial role The Sixth Earl was primarily remembered as the give up before she became involved with and later The reformation in the 16th century brought religious upheaval families had to navigate the shifting religious figure and he played a role in suppressing the Warden of the Marches. He however rebelled of the Northern Earls&quot; and was executed at York This signalled the end of many titles and Thomas's younger brother Henry took the title as up the pieces but the castle was not what it was The family preferred some of the more southern residences weeks back, concentrating on building a new keep With attention drawn away, Alnwick began to crumble and appeared forgotten. The English Civil War would change everything and the castle was back at the forefront of prominence a garrison in its walls and further damaging Algernon Percy the 10th Earl of Northumberland initially supported Parliament aiming to preserve the family interests. He In the aftermath of the the last male heir commissioned major interior These renovations aimed to create reflecting the growing emphasis on domestic a symbol of power and prestige increasingly After Joselyn's death, his daughter she married at 15 to Charles Seymour, Sixth Duke Percy Seymour line which continues to hold Elizabeth remarried in 1740, this second Hugh Smithson who took the name Percy proved to be the Percy estates. Together they achieved The couple embarked on an ambitious project to remodel designers. Robert Adam oversaw the interior rooms reflecting the neoclassical tastes of the architect redesigned the surrounding parkland So we've just been into the Duke and Duchess of there's no filming of any kind in there so we rooms, the decoration is quite incredible. The amazing. So certainly something really to enjoy till halfpast 4 each day and we've gone in early day here. We got around quite quickly but yeah shame we couldn't show you. Elizabeth's son Hugh castle and estates in 1776. He continued grandeur and supporting various philanthropic through descendants ensuring that Alnwick Castle Subsequent generations made further modifications and styles and tastes. Throughout the 19th and the focal point for the family and the community. Royal visits and charitable gatherings. In to open parts of Alnwick Castle to the its grandeur and history. This move has been upkeep and preservation while also sharing its Today Alnwick Castle remains a family home to Ralph George We exit the castle at its original the Percy Coats of Arms, a lion was placed Leaving the castle behind there Across the road is and a short walk up the road brings us to run by volunteers and occupies the former Roman It showcases 10,000 years of the region's past We're not going to pay a visit Baliffgate is one of and was developed to provide accommodation Extending West it leads to Canongate, the way to the spiritual needs of the population. All Gate House which can be seen from the road if At the junction of Northumberland Road and from a height Church of St Michael which dates from 1464. Though records a Norman Chapel certainly occupied The current Church structure predominantly dates rebuilding following Scottish raids. This building Its construction was funded with support from Wars of the Roses. Over the centuries the church the 18th and 19th centuries saw Gothic-style however, a major restoration in the Anthony Salvin aimed to return the church Today St Michael's Church continues to a blend of architectural styles Like Bayliffgate, Northumberland Street's origins Alnwick Castle. It likely served as a vital town's central marketplace and other key areas. In its early days, it was lined with timber-framed and thatched houses housing tradespeople and The end of the Border Warfare in the 17th commerce prompting development and new 19th centuries, the street showcased a mix to Victorian commercial buildings reflecting We have arrived at Pottergate Tower the medieval town which defended Whilst the defensive walls are gone the tower The tower was rebuilt in 1768 it used to have a crowned spire I'm going to surmise that the name their craft in the area of the castle Walking down Pottergate towards the town is a Presbyterian Meeting House in the 17th century part of the United Reformed Church in 1972 Pottergate Green is a lovely open space statue of Harry Hotspur, we spoke of earlier Right on the junction with Narrowgate is fountain dates back to 1873 it replaces an as 1611. This highlights the importance Directly across the road is Bow Alley. The name Bow Alley derives from a stream water for the town people. The burn's We'll walk up Narrowgate Street away from the town of the castle and to complete a circular loop The Great North Road was the main highway between 20th century. It became a coaching route used York and Edinburgh. Alnwick's position along this for travellers and trade throughout history. The coaching inns providing lodgings and refreshments. shaped its development. In what was once the are more old houses and two inns with historic Ye Olde Cross has a shield set upside down on the wall carrying the Coat of Arms of the the legend is explained on a plaque in the have remained untouched since 1725 when the then His wife proclaimed them cursed and they have the protection of those who pass by, although The former Black Swan in identified visited in the 18th century by Alnwick town centre with its traditional tea rooms and inviting pubs exudes one of the most delightful town centres should definitely include leisurely Where the street begins to widen into Bondgate The 15th-century former Almshouses are family crest with its lion alongside the crossed Paikes Street leads to the marketplace, Market Place was originally (probably) just a were later replaced by small buildings. A Horse Corn Market. Fish and meat were sold around the is behind this building, the butcher shambles, meat and probably not a very pleasant place to was replaced in 1826 by the Northumberland Hall running along the north and south sides which In 1297 Edward Ist granted a charter for a weekly The Market Cross is still a prominent symbol of the purposes throughout history. The place where settled and most importantly markets were held. The site of the present Town Hall originally housed a 16th Century Brew House established by Marketplace is a bustling hub of activity Saturday when it comes alive with stalls offering Crossing over the road I just want to number one Clayport Street the home Let's take a walk down Market Street Straight away we see another St Michael's Pant erected in 1765 Further down the road is the Corn steps I'm going to assume that the On the bend of the road as it becomes water founding known as Robertson Pant. Robertson native and benefactor in 1890. By the Royal Mail were using the White Swan Inn Hotel and inside is something quite special. We find ourselves standing in the Grand Olympic panelling, mirrors, ornate ceiling and even the These precious artefacts were salvaged from ill-fated RMS Titanic. The Olympic launched in tragic maiden voyage, served faithfully and even However, the advent of the luxurious Queen uneconomical leading to retirement in 1935 and however provided much needed work for struggling Before the Olympic was completely dismantled were auctioned off. The then owner of the White purchased the Olympic's entire first-class dining and painstakingly reconstructed within the hotel A collection of photos in the hall leading to the suite shows Today you can hire the venue for that special While the castle boasted strong defences vulnerable to Scottish raids. In 1443 King Henry wall around Alnwick. However, financial exact completion date of the walls and its four Today only Bondgate Tower also known as Hotspur Tower as Pottergate was rebuilt. Remarkably it bottleneck for cars passing the town. As we walk under the arch Bondgate Within changes its name to Bondgate Without, I guess to At the beginning of the First World War 85 out female labour was introduced in 1916. A memorial erected alongside the main route into the The imposing Percy Tenancy Column, also known as the Farmer's Folly, dominates this monument topped with the iconic Percy Lion the second Duke lowered their rent during Legend however claims the duke unimpressed by their raised the rents again! The column stands of 1887 and has now been transformed into the Barter Books is a destination in itself, and peruse books before purchasing while a With its unique blend of traditional charm and ice cream parlour and the model Railway, it offers In 2000 an original &quot;Keep Calm and uncovered in the Bookshop. In 2005 they launched sparking a global phenomenon and cementing to pop to the toilet you can see the Next time we head inland to Northumberland country pub. A visit to a cute village and a day of Hadrian's Wall and visiting a few of the Roman Well the heavens have opened rain on this trip but that's it from Alnwick, hope around the town with us today. We're lucky to get much for watching, there's lots more to come from our other playlists. We've been to North Wales, see. Thanks for joining us, do subscribe, and