This video summarizes 5 processes to create the most recycled crafts in the first half of 2023. Subtitles can be added by clicking the button below. Subtitles explain the details of the production process. Especially from 3 minutes 50 seconds, it feels good to watch, so please watch it repeatedly. This is a profile of bamboo crafts made in Kyoto. If you are interested, we recommend stopping the screen once and reading it. Let's take a look at the process of making a briefcase using bamboo, the fifth place. First, we will shave the surface of the bamboo. Carefully scrape off excess knots. Knots are not removed, but are effectively used in later processes. Cut off the ends of the bamboo and split the bamboo. First, make two. From there, mark it for further subdivision. Cut the bamboo into 4 equal parts, 8 equal parts, and split the 8 equal parts of the bamboo in half along the cross section. From there, divide it into 16 equal parts and then halve further along the cross section. We will create more detailed parts and prepare 204 3mm wide bamboos. Next, adjust the width of the material cut into 3 mm width. Drive the blade into the table and adjust it to a certain width. It's so nice to see this work. Each piece of bamboo has a different shape, so check the habits while touching it. After finishing everything, the bamboo is dyed. I will omit the process of dyeing bamboo because it is a trade secret. The next step is to weave the dyed bamboo into dark brown. First, we will make the bottom part of the bag. By aligning the knots left at the beginning in one row, we will create a design that stands out. The 102 x 102 briefcase is carefully woven so that there are no gaps. Hideaki Hosokawa, the craftsman in charge of the production, has been working at a printing company for 10 years. I have always liked making things, so when I turned 30, I enrolled in a bamboo craft vocational school. After graduating from that school, he became independent and continues to this day. Currently, we are producing many kinds of products other than briefcases. In 2018, the second bag made by Mr. Hosokawa won the Prime Minister's Badge at the National Traditional Crafts Public Contest. At this stage the bottom part of the bag is completed. Wet the part to be folded with water to make it easier to bend. Use a trowel to fold it. Next, we will knit the side part of the briefcase. It is very complicated and requires concentration. We pay close attention so that there are no gaps when weaving. Hosokawa says that the interesting feature of bamboo is that it is both hard and soft, and can transform into any shape. Next, we will make the edges of the bag with a material called "rattan". The bamboo is bent by the fire of the candle, and the shape is molded. The angle of bending is all done by relying on the sense of the hand. Tie the finished edge to the briefcase. Everything is done by hand without using a sewing machine. Light the candle again and run the candle all over the briefcase to remove any protruding fibers. Next, lacquer is applied to the surface of the briefcase. Applying lacquer not only brings out a deep color, but also gives it a lustrous sheen. The more you use it, the more the color will change and you can enjoy the change over time. Finally, we will attach the metal fittings that will be used as reinforcement. Depending on the production situation, it takes about 1 to 3 months to produce the product. Briefcases made by skilled craftsmen will soon be available for purchase at the Suigenkyo Online Store. In addition to briefcases, we also have trunk cases and clutch bags. Next in fourth place is the process of making a vase using the cloisonne technique. The material of the vase is copper. Baking removes the oil from the surface. Put in dilute sulfuric acid. It dissolves the surface and removes blackheads. Glaze adheres well by melting the surface. Dilute sulfuric acid is harmful to human skin. However, craftsmen are used to it and don't wear gloves. Wipe clean and then apply glaze. Melt the hardened glaze. It is a work to apply a white glaze called &quot;Horogake&quot;. By making it white, it plays the role of a canvas. Apply the glaze so that the thickness is uniform. Draft the design. This time, I will draw plum blossoms. The finished product can be purchased from the URL in the overview column. If you are interested, please take a look. I will attach the silver wire. This is the most characteristic process. All handmade by Mr. Kato. Mr. Kato originally wanted to be a car designer. However, while looking for a job, I became interested in the family business of cloisonne making. Mr. Kato pursues &quot;beauty in smallness&quot;. It seems that it is a technique to learn over five years to stick silver wire. This silver wire becomes a wall and glaze is put in it. This silver line will be the edge of the design. It is a work that must be done carefully because it cannot be corrected later. I will start coloring. The material is glaze. All shades of color are expressed with glaze. The glaze has a texture similar to sand. It is mixed with glue. It is very difficult to color freely. Professional skills are required. Image the baked finish and add color. This work is spread over several days. Glaze - Firing is repeated. Green and pink go very well together. It is also a popular item for interior decoration. Cloisonne is one of the Royal Collection. Some items are stored in the UK. Mr. Kato admired the work of Sosuke Namikawa, who has been donated to the Royal Collection, and decided to enter this industry. Mr. Kato's current skill level is comparable to that of Mr Namikawa. All of us at suigenkyo will do our best to support him in his future endeavors. Please enjoy the process that is completed little by little. Put it in the kiln and bake it. The temperature of the kiln is about 800. Check the inside with the naked eye. Addition or subtraction is all up to the eyes of the craftsman. I'm going to polish. There are 10 processes if you break down the polishing alone. Attach it to the machine and smooth the surface with coarse paper. Check the unevenness of the surface by touch. Mark the uneven part with a pen and scrape it again. Depending on the item, defects may be found in this process and may be remade. It became very colorful. Vases made by skilled craftsmen can be purchased at the Suigenkyo Online Store. The URL is in the summary column. Third place is the process of making brushes using traditional techniques. The quality of the raw wool is judged by the eye of the craftsman. Sort out the long and short, remove unnecessary hair and create a rough shape. Cover the lungs and rub the hair. Removes oil from hair. Work carefully. Animal hair is used as the raw material for this brush. Use water to mix evenly. This process, which is the most characteristic of brush making, requires intuition based on experience. Remove excess hair. Cut out with scissors. This technique of mixing various materials has been acquired through many years of training. It looks easy, but it is a very difficult task. It is a very pleasant process to watch. It's been mixed up little by little. By using various types of bristles, it is possible to create brushes with firmness. Insert it into the mold to make the shape of the core. Divide the hair into the size of one core, align the hair to make a core, and wrap the aligned hair. Tie the base with hemp thread and heat it with a trowel. Insert the hair into the shaft and fix it. Apply glue all over the ends of your hair. Remove excess glue while turning the wound thread. I'm going to make the final adjustments by hand. Affix a sticker certifying that it is a nationally designated craft, and it is completed. The brushes produced this time can be purchased at the Suigenkyo Online Store. Check it out from the link in the overview column. Second is the process of making the bow. Sharpen the bow carefully. The length and weight of the bow varies depending on the customer. It is completely made to order. The right is the 21st generation and the left is the 22nd generation. Next, I will polish it using an electric machine. There is an image that all crafts are handmade. In fact, this polishing work can also be done by hand. However, by doing everything by hand, the selling price rises, making it difficult for many people to purchase. Since bows are used in competitions, Mr Shibata wants to make bows that are cheaper and of higher quality. For this reason, we have introduced machines into the manufacturing process, and are focusing on making sure that we can manufacture them as accurately as possible at a low cost. We will make fine adjustments. Making glue Apply glue to the surface of the bamboo and stick the three pieces together. I will apply it carefully by hand. Wrap the twine around it to secure it. Wrap it tightly so that there are no gaps. Drive the wedge under the hemp string. By driving in, the unique curve of the bow is created. Relying on the sense of the hand, we will make the shape of the bow. I'm going to remove the string. Make fine adjustments again. sharpen the tip. Curve the bow in the opposite direction with the shape you just made. I often hear the sound of bamboo. When things go wrong, the bamboo core may explode and end in failure. I will put the strings on. I'll give it a shot at the end. The most played in 2023 is the process of making a cup with 100,000 taps. Once you melt the silver and put it in hot water, impurities will float on the surface. We will remove impurities. Reheat the silver to soften it. The silver is hammered to make it flat. Heat it up and hit it over and over again. I will use the compass to determine the line to hit. Apply it to the pedestal and draw a curve. Hit the surface and make the shape of the cup. The bangle that Mr izumi is wearing is also made by himself. Hit the surface line by line. Slap your mouth to make it tighter. After graduating from art college, Mr izumi traveled hundreds of kilometers on foot. During that trip, I faced and thought about my future. As a result, I ended up with a silver craftsman. If you are interested, please see the interview article in the summary column. It gradually became cup-shaped. I'm going to set the line and fix the shape. Cut out the mouth. Scrape around the mouth. We pay close attention to the part that touches the customer's mouth. I'm going to flatten the surface even more. I will engrave. Design is applied to the surface. First, a polka dot pattern is applied to the surface. Change the hammer and hit between the circles. By tapping between the circles, the corners will appear. It's a very interesting mechanism. It's nearing completion. We will make final adjustments. You can purchase this product from the overview column. Please take a look . Thank you for watching until the end.