[Applause] &gt;&gt; Hi, everyone. Wow, it's like a live stream, except you're It's scarier this way. My name is Natalie Wynn. I am a YouTuber. I guess we don't really like that word because bodies, but you know, sometimes you have to internet as a YouTuber, so that's what I am. I'm the creator of a channel called ContraPoints that channel and about the circumstances that So, that's my channel. You can see I cover a variety of safe, non-controversial topics. [Laughter] Nazis, communism, sexual deviation, And I have such a difficult time describing If I'm in the back of an Uber and the driver I'm like, I make YouTube videos, and they're And I say makeup? [Laughter] ContourPoints. [Laughter] [Applause] If I were to attempt to describe culture, right? The bad parts. It's about just being alive in 2018. It's kind of a long, theatrical response to So let's look at a sample. [Mendelssohn, &quot;A Midsummer Night's Dream Overture, Allegro di molto&quot;] [shimmering noises] Hail, mortals! I come to thee from my fairy grove to bring Western culture is being destroyed by cucks you know, things that have never happened [Mendelssohn, &quot;A Midsummer Night's Dream Overture, Allegro di molto&quot;] &gt;&gt; So, that's me as a fairy queen talking How did that happen? How did we end up in this situation where Well, it all starts with cucks. [Laughter] The year was 2016 and Barack Obama about to elect our first woman president and But the internet was not okay. I, at this moment, had just dropped out of life is actually not worth living. [Laughter] I don't know, I was like an Uber just looking for what to do next. Back in 2009, I had been kind of like an atheist that world. So in my subscriptions box and my recommended of, like, &quot;Why Feminism is Ruining the Planet,&quot; And I was like, hmm, interesting. I thought I could use my skills from my education counter some of these videos and respond to That was the original idea for the ContraPoints Those were the points it was against. That's what I did for the first year of the I made what seems, in retrospect, really reckless Being like, &quot;Hello, Nazi 4chan, let's talk Which, you know, you don't just But, at the time, I was... Well, I should explain. So, I used to be, um, a little bit of a man. [Laughter] I'm not proud of it, but these We all make mistakes! [Applause] And I guess I realized last year that I needed It wasn't an option. It was just what I had to do to live and be That was unfortunate for my YouTube career way trans women, all women really, are treated When I realized that me, as this person with going to have to become a trans woman, I was So my old persona, like, here I am. This is me before I transitioned in the persona mommy Nazi Frank-N-Furter thing? I was actually going to show you a clip of for even like ten seconds. It's like agony to listen to my voice, so I can't escape this. Like, that's something that I haven't even like to be trans on the internet is that once You are always stuck with this. That's not the only bad thing though. More generally speaking, it's not a good idea I had been shielded in a lot of ways by this It was grotesque, I knew it was grotesque, Sure, I'd get harassed and people would come They're going to call me a degenerate and None of that even scratched the surface of But when I started transitioning, if you want easy. It made things harder. People were harder on me. About a month after I came out, I was fully Address, every old picture of me before I everything because that's what they do. Things got harder. It was difficult suddenly to have to be very to do, to try to do a gender transition with It is. You don't want to do your first adolescence, It's very unpleasant. But I knew that was going to happen. I'm one of the few people who's doing this was getting into it, because I had read about I knew what was going to happen, so I was I also had a sense when I was being harassed wrong, because they were on the wrong side A feeling of self-righteousness will carry What I didn't expect and what in some ways I had a platform, and I was transitioning, trans people. Which is really unfair, because this happened already thinking of me like this. It's unfair to me, it's unfair to the trans trans people aren't well represented in media it is, being a d-list YouTube transsexual, was more or less impossible to meet. Trans people, it's a very diverse group of We don't agree on basics. We don't agree on what gender is, we don't agree on what transition is supposed to look Being one person supposed to represent a whole It's an impossible task. It led to a series of problems that plagued People thought I was supposed to be transsexual on the left, because again there wasn't a wanted me to be gay Lenin or lead the revolution If people thought I was doing things the wrong I made three big mistakes career-wise in 2017. The first one was at VidCon, the YouTube conference And worse than that, I was smiling The way this works is if you are standing and if you are smiling and that picture goes people that you're not best friends with that I've seen this happen to friends, other activists, You smile in a picture, you're best friends. So that's what happened. People thought I was basically, you know, bourgeois revisionists. The second mistake I made -- they're all an interview in New York magazine with a journalist The third mistake was I agreed last November Blaire White. And that was kind of three strikes and I was And leftist Twitter was fully against me at That hurt much more than any amount of 4chan just that I couldn't take criticism. I'm open to criticism, but it's that people careerist who was throwing all trans people making these decisions. It was so hurtful to me that I just couldn't I'm very reluctant to accept interviews, very I'm afraid of it happening again. And I've really had to change the way I act with that. One of the ways I've decided to deal with Twitter is bad. And you shouldn't do it. [Applause] Thanks for coming to my TED Talk. [Laughter] Yeah, you're reluctant to say what to be taken by reactionaries and run with, and Twitter callouts aggressively. That is, they don't want you to change, they want to bring you down. This is something that we on the leftist internet because it's not just if you say something I think it's justifiable to call someone out you said in 2010 gets brought up to drag you And the terror of this happening starts to I know it's not just me. Everyone I know who does this is terrified be dug up or they're going to misspeak slightly This is not social justice activism. It is harassment. [Applause] Thank you. It's hard to convince people of this, because accountable, right? You need to be able to criticize people, you something that's problematic, but it's so In fact, the only reason I'm standing here No one knew who I was, no one knew what my If people knew my opinions in 2009, it would opinions weren't always super good. How many of the people in this room -- how trans people in 2008? [Laughter] Right? We have to be able to make room for people For me, I think about this in two ways. One is a moral evolution. My moral world has expanded as I've learned But there's also the gender transition, and that's always hanging around next to me and I've dealt with that basically by creating and my private life, because I need to make things happen. Because it's going to happen. As you see in the video, I use a very strong on the internet, and that makes it easier it's not Natalie being criticized, it's ContraPoints The other thing that I do and this is really at this point, is working with fiction. So, you know, my colleague Lindsay Ellis talked something that's very desirable. People want to see what they feel is a real authentic. You don't have to be a diarist, you can also It's possible to express yourself through someone else. This is a technique that I've used on my channel, where just literally sitting in my bedroom is would be a bad idea. This is my TVTropes page. It has a list of characters that I've created. There is Abigail Cockbane, who is like the There's Lady Foppington, who's this 18th century time we need to talk about skulls, which is There's Freya, who's a Nazi. There's Tiffany Tumbles, who's a trans woman like? [Laughter] Here is a screenshot from my upcoming This is my character Tabby, who is an antifascist That's kind of where I'm at with this channel. I do dialogues. It's a way to explore ideas without necessarily but there's a precedent. To go back to philosophy, all of Plato's philosophy characters and it kind of works, I think, I also like the theatrical aspect of it too, now. A reality TV star is the president of this theater actually makes sense. I think it works better than just being some of production. No one wants to listen to that. Sorry! [Laughter] You need to look at fascism as pageant if you are going to work in the media It's also a way of protecting yourself from If you can present yourself as a more abstract characters than you can ease some of the burden opinion you express. So that's what's been working for me. I don't presume to tell anyone else how it up with in terms of how to survive in 2018 internet. If you have a better idea, let me know. Thanks. [Applause]