Transcriber: Ingrid Antonello In the beginning, the universe This made a lot of people very angry a bad mood. What Douglas Adams portrays the complete absurdity The fact that in this world, in this life, it is so complicated and confusing And yet when you zoom out on the it's nothing but completely insignificant. As an astrophysicist, this has always and I think it's because beyond the humor, there's actually a bit I think resonates with anyone who studies that is, that our universe is as awe Our universe has zero obligation to and two be habitable for life. These are the thoughts that keep me as I ponder all of the cosmic catastrophes kill the Earth. So tonight, I want to share just three ways that and how we might survive. I quite literally with Armageddon Now, obviously this is a topic of epic Some of the best and worst But it is also the topic of And that's because we've seen what happens Only 65 million years ago, the dinosaurs That was until one pesky asteroid slammed Not only did it wipe out the dinosaurs, but we estimate that 75% of the Earth's surface went extinct Now, I'm not going If this were to happen today, I have zero So realistically, what are our chances? To understand this, we need are there asteroids similar to this one? And it turns out we're really In fact, we have found 1 million and we track them pretty continuously. Now, if there is one asteroid that we that is my friend Bennu here. Bennu was discovered in 1999, and So a fraction of the asteroid But this would certainly wreak havoc Now, why Bennu is so terrifying It's because it's something called meaning that every now and again it comes So we've kept an eye on Bennu, and we've actually modeled the most as this approaches us. Turns out that the year 2182 will be that time. That is the most dangerous because Bennu has a small chance of I do not plan on being But even if I was, I probably And that's because this event only has the Earth. Peanuts, tiny. But even if it had a 100% chance of hitting and collected. Do you want to know why? Because we've tested technology It's something called a kinetic impactor. And it really is just throwing and watching it move. It's so simple We've already tested this back in They threw a spacecraft at proved that it imparted enough momentum for that moonlet to change So we have a way as humans to combat and it's not what keeps me up at night. In fact, if I had to tell you it would be the possibility As of 2024, we've found no evidence for alien life. Nothing. Not a thing. And it's not through lack of trying. In fact, the first extraterrestrial And in recent decades, we've doubled And yet all of that searching, and You might be wondering what I do Enrico Fermi, actually pondered He wondered out loud at a table of Where is everybody? As in And his logic was pretty sound. The idea We are technologically They advanced. Why don't we see signals out there It is a question that has quite literally because we don't have answer. One physicist tried to quantify. His name was Frank Drake, and he came up What this is, is a numerical way to put about the universe, and the very fact intelligent species could there Now, if we solve this equation the things we know about and again, the fact that we exist, The number is 15.5 million That's how many we should Now, before you get too excited that is across the entire universe. Our Our galaxy is just one galaxy So you sprinkle 15.5 million species The likelihood of a single galaxy having It's almost depressing when but it does mean that we are safe In fact, if I were a wagering person, I would say that our earth and our world would actually end before there. And that brings me to our the way that we really will die and that is by the hand of our own sun. If we didn't have its warmth this world would not be habitable. But just as it gave us life, it will one And that's because our sun has to die. Now, our son's death is not one that but rather it's a demure departure. You see, it will become something It will expand out, and then it will a white dwarf. It sounds magical until you it gets closer to the Earth. We estimate that in 1 billion years, the sun will have expanded and so much that our oceans will Shortly after, our atmosphere will be And if we're very lucky, our sun will as it expands 250 times the size That's the end of the Earth, and there's And what is incredible about this is that I don't think it will be the end A lot of hope that our curiosity for discovery will lead us to find and humans will continue to exist We won't know for sure, And so what do you now do with Does knowing any of this change your And it's almost ironic because we know Every day we have it's cheesy, Our existence was never guaranteed, And I think understanding the cosmos can offer us this this idea that we are part of something So I want to leave you with just one Words of advice or words to live by, if Thank you.