Budapest to Vienna is one of Europe's most with private operator RegioJet, Austrian and Hungarian MAV all competing for business checking out what MAV has to offer route roughly every 2 hours. We'll explore discover why there are some Ukrainian night train onboard dining car. So join me for a trip on Our journey begins at Budapest Keleti terminal stations serving the city. The &quot;Keleti,&quot; roughly translates to &quot;Eastern,&quot; railway lines from Eastern Hungary, Romania, you even get trains going west, like The station is among my favorites in terms spring weather today is definitely not doing it find plenty of shops and restaurants, and below you'll find the toilets, some ticket machines, as well as the station's main ticket office. Hungarian State Railways (MAV), which operates services in and out of the city. Impossible departure board, with green denoting arrivals 8:40 bound for Vienna, and as our train will be Arriving about 5 minutes behind locomotive that has brought the train But the train actually comes from much further Our train features a special livery who was actually the first king of the locomotive is currently at the wrong end to Vienna is arriving just a few minutes This is a Taurus locomotive, part of the Siemens of 230 km per hour, with MAV they don't get is where we'll find our Ukrainian sleeper multiple different trains, they have come Kyiv, overnight and will be traveling we'll be traveling in one of the normal daytime in carriage 412. With departure time fast Seat reservations are optional on this train, Our train begins its slow departure out As we navigate our way out of the station, let's take a closer look at how this The first carriages in our train actually start carriages from Kyiv. These run all the way down get attached to what is officially this train, the border to Zahony, where another shunting off to meet us in Budapest. Here, the third and we join the train for the remainder of the Hegyeshalom, and finally Vienna. For the section of 257 km in 2 hours and 40 minutes, giving If you really like railways and how these I highly recommend visiting the Vagonweb website, where. This is a massive help for making videos later, after departing Budapest Keleti, we This is an important shoulder station, lines to the various Budapest terminus in the direction towards Vienna or Balaton. I think it's about time we go starting all the way from the back where I was At the end of this carriage, you'll as well as their international connections this train, there's only one first-class carriage, which is located towards the rear While there were people sitting in every seats. Continuing on, we get to the other end of Crossing over, we get to the dining car, but we'll check this out in greater Next up, we get to second class. First up, there is plenty of space for bikes on board this find the accessible toilet, and across from it The layout here is a mix of airline-style down the train, you'll also find some density as up in first class but just The third and final layout is of four. All the way at the front, we and let's go see if it's I was actually lucky enough to find an I actually had the opportunity to where I took the RegioJet sleeper to Chop, so make want to miss that video. Unfortunately, due to it was not possible for me to film any videos pictures. Back to this train, however, Here we find a pretty standard toilet with that's pretty clean, well-stocked with so good job MAV. Back at my seat and roughly an Being Hungary's sixth-largest city, it's almost halfway along the route to Vienna. it's about time to check out the seats. All the and a door that can be shut. Up above, you'll find turn on and off the lights, and control the Above every seat, you'll find plenty of space for There's also a plug and USB ports, which is at the window seats that extends. There's The seats themselves are pretty comfortable. as plush as some of the older One thing Hungarian Railways is known for so I think it would be rude not to go and The dining car has two seating layouts, but on the other side of the counter, you'll tables. The menu offers a large selection of beers, and drinks, and at least from it's really cheap. As I already had breakfast in pancakes with jam and a hot coffee, which I With our little snack break complete, our right here at the small equipment hut on our left. As our train starts to make its way through of Vienna, it's time for us to talk about on MAV's website. Prices vary based on demand first. However, as I was traveling on an Interrail just jump on board. And just like that, a few Hauptbahnhof, Vienna's main station, after a So which train do you prefer to take know in the comments below. As always, if subscribe to the channel as I try to post a new Twitter @InterCitySimon. I post live from my get a sneak peek at what videos might be coming Thanks for watching.