everyone happy and happy together . Hahahahahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhas It seems that Chinese martial arts disappoints me so much. Wow, wow, wow, everything is just fancy fists and embroidered legs. Hey, I have played in 23 martial arts gyms and no one can beat me. I didn't expect that your Shanghai martial arts gym disappoints me so much. Are you the director? Come on. If you lose, let me be the curator. I'll break you like chopsticks. Do you dare? Curator, curator, let's fuck . No , since he mentioned me, I have to fuck. Don't stop me. I'm doing this . Just let me take care of the big things like sesame seeds and mung beans. Brother, you are Section Chief Liu . Wait until I teach this boy a lesson before introducing myself. This brother, martial arts is for strengthening the body, not for fighting. My name is Courtesy first, then attack. If you continue to be ungrateful, then I will take action. You Chinese people talk too much. We will talk to you later in the year. Ah, ah, ah, ah, come on. Who are you? I'm fighting him. I 'm Zhu Piaoyi. I don't care who you are. I almost beat him just now, now you come up, forget it, come on, Yiyi, be careful, ah, ah , ah, what are you looking at? I tell you, it's totally unfair. It's an unfair game, because I'm already tired. Before you come up, I I have knocked down 5 people. Just wait for me to go back and have a good sleep. Then I will come back and knock you down just like I knocked down your friends. go away quickly. Stop, you trash. It 's okay. Master Zhu, this guy is here to cause trouble again . Don't worry, I will handle it and take care of him. Haha, you shouted. You 're a bunch of losers. Look at their stupid looks. They've just learned it . Of course they can't beat you. Let them heal your injuries. I wasn't familiar with your boxing skills last time, so it surprised me. But after I went back, I studied you carefully. The so-called Tai Chi Sword One-Punch Manual and I have also found your loopholes. This time I will definitely beat you like them. Come on , move, be still , just move. I don't understand this nonsense. How can it be so fast or slow ? Slow means fast. Hey, what a mess. Have you taken it now? Why is your Chinese Kung Fu so weird? It's too fast. It's different from other people's. The characteristic of Tai Chi is that it's unpredictable, so there's no way to talk about any changes. Your martial arts is indeed You have made some progress , and I can see your perseverance and persistence , but your temper is too anxious , and Tai Chi is about using slowness and speed to overcome hardness with softness. I hope you can slowly understand. OK , thank you for your advice. I didn't dare Brother Cui, please, Lao Liu. Long time no see. Hahaha. Marshal Cao is here. It's a long way to welcome him. Hey, no need to see anyone else. How is the Chinese Martial Arts Hall lately? I'd like to thank Marshal for everything going well at the Hongfu Chinese Martial Arts Hall . Many martial arts sects and heroes from all walks of life have come to visit us. It's great to learn martial arts and promote the spirit of martial arts. Come on, let me introduce you to this guy. He is Cui Zhengjin, a North Korean slide master. He admires our Chinese martial arts very much and came to China from North Korea. He also came to Shanghai specifically to learn kung fu. It turns out. It's so good. Please, please, please. The continuous boxing style with softness overcoming rigidity and flowing water brings the practitioner to the highest state where the mind, spirit, and movement gradually merge into one. By the way, Lao Liu heard that a Tai Chi practitioner named Zhu Piaoyi came to the Guoshu Hall. Where is he? He has gone out. When he comes back, bring him to see me. Okay , no problem . Director Liu, I admire Chinese martial arts very much. The Guoshu Museum is indeed well-deserved. Master Cui has given me the award. I also know your flower corridor. It is a traditional martial arts in Korea. It is famous for grappling and aerial kicks. In the Silla era, a soldier named Hwarang became famous with this kind of martial arts in one battle , so he was named Hwarang Do by the King of Jinluo. Director Liu was indeed a master of martial arts. Not only does he have an in-depth understanding of his own country 's martial arts, but he also has a lot of research on foreign martial arts, which is admirable. Master Cui has given me the award. But I wonder if Director Liu can satisfy my small request. What is Master Cui's request? But he said it doesn't matter. Who teaches Tai Chi? The boxing master looks quite interesting, why don't I spar with him? It's interesting . Director Liu , I don't know, this is Rufeng. I'll introduce you to Cui Zhengjin, a master of Hualang Road from North Korea. Master Cui Shiwu sounds like what you just said. You are very confident, why don't you pretend that you just want to ask for advice? You are not very strong yet. Stop , uncle, are you okay ? Director Liu, isn't your martial arts gym full of talented people? I'm not spending so much money to support a martial arts gym just to embarrass you, Commander-in- Chief. Calm down. The director and this brother are just being polite. They are competing in martial arts . However, I am very disappointed with Chinese Kung Fu. I didn't expect it to be so vulnerable. Who said Chinese Kung Fu is vulnerable ? Who are you? Zhu Piaoyi's tone is unknown. You practice. What kind of Kung Fu is Tai Chi? Tai Chi is the Kung Fu used by the brother I defeated. He is my senior brother. If you are interested, you can come again tomorrow and I will practice a few more tricks with you . I wonder if Master Cui can give me a favor ? If this is the case. If I'm at this level, I don't think I need to waste my time. It's not necessarily who loses and who wins. Master Cui, are you scared? Huh, joke. I'm afraid of having a good time tomorrow. I'll make an appointment. I hope you won't disappoint me too much. You are Zhu Piaoyi. Yes, I hope you don't embarrass me tomorrow. I will do my best. Please, to hear about Master Chen and you yesterday. All Tai Chi comes from the Chenjiagou Tai Chi Sect. Today I hope you can prove your strength. Otherwise, I will be suspicious of all those who practice Chinese Kung Fu. What is so arrogant? Just be patient. Success or failure depends on the gracefulness. Cheng Rang , why did Piao Yi fight so sloppily today ? Piao Yi did not take the initiative to attack today . Instead, he watched Cui Zhengjin make a move and quickly counterattacked to cope with the changes . In this way, Cui Zhengji had no way to judge and no way to start. So that's how I am. If you lose, I will let you do whatever you want to do with the competition points. Let's go. Piaoyi. Well done. You made me look good in today's battle. Thank you , Marshal. How about this? Follow me back to the northwest and teach Tai Chi to my soldiers. I'm just an ordinary martial arts practitioner. It's okay to compete in martial arts halls. But if I go to the military camp, I 'm afraid I won't be able to be an adult. Thank you , Commander-in-Chief . Then there will be an issue later . Everyone, come over and print out the photos. Hurry up and publish some news reports about Zhu Piaoyi's defeat of North Korea's Hwarang Dao Cui Zhengjin. Go, nickname, nickname. Buy a dozen of pearls into one. Get it , nickname , nickname, nickname, nickname. No. Everyone, don't be anxious , don't be anxious, listen to me, listen to me, the Chinese Martial Arts Museum wants to recruit disciples, they must register first. We have set up a temporary registration office inside. Please go inside to register later. Everyone, line up. Okay . Line up, line up, line up Let's go, let's go, go inside, go to the left, go to the left, thank you very much for being merciful to me , otherwise I would have died in your hands. Martial arts is all about exchanging ideas and being tolerant. Kindness in heart is the virtue of martial arts for those of us who practice martial arts. Virtue is the essence of our Chinese martial arts. Your Tai Chi is really good. Your kung fu is also great. I wonder if I can ask you a question. Please tell me. I see shadows of the Central Plains martial arts in your moves. I wonder if Master Cui doesn't. Master Zhu really has a good eye. Although I left my hometown , the spirit of carrying forward the national tradition has always been in my heart. Since I drifted to China, I have always wanted to improve the flower corridor. Later, I had the opportunity to learn Shaolin boxing, plum blossom boxing and other martial arts. The flower corridor that Master Zhu saw was me. It's a pity that after meeting you, I discovered many shortcomings of Hualangdao . It would be great if I could learn Tai Chi. Master Cui, can I really teach you ? Can you really teach me Tai Chi ? Of course, I hope to be able to bring China to China. Kung Fu Tai Chi has been promoted and spread , so no matter who asks me for advice, I will teach it well . With your words, I will definitely learn Tai Chi Zhang Dashuai. Hey , don't come. You are fine. Okay . Very good . How are you? Naturally, I will be better than you. Well done. If Marshal Cao isn't staying at the base camp, what's the point of running to Shanghai ? Recently, I've become less and less interested in fighting. I want to study our Chinese national martial arts, which are good and good, and promote our national quintessence. Yin Xiaotian has seen Marshal Cao, and Marshal Cao has heard of his name for a long time. I'm glad to meet you today. Is this the person who wants to challenge Tai Chi? It 's not a challenge, it's a defeat. Please take a seat, Dashuai Zhang . If I have any shortcomings, please give me the dragon head staff. Don't talk about me. I lost you once and I don't want to lose you a second time. I'm just talking. Can you say this casually? If you have anything else to say, wait until you win the game. You talk a lot? Are you ready for the main drift? Are you ready? Let's start. Wait a minute. How can we determine the outcome of today's competition? If the losing side doesn't admit it , wouldn't it be in vain? Marshal Zhang, what do you mean by this sentence? Marshal Cao, you and I are all people who have led soldiers and fought in battles. We lose on the battlefield. There is only one outcome for one side and that is death , so today's competition should be changed to a life and death duel. Do you mean that this competition has to sign a life and death certificate? Yes, life and death certificate . Brother Piaoyi, they are going to put the girl to death. Yes, Piaoyi is absolutely. You can't sign it, Zhu Piaoyi, if you're afraid you'll regret it now, it's too late, Zhou Piaoyi, what do you think? If you don't want to sign this life and death certificate, I won't force you . Since I agreed to compete, I have already put life and death aside, I agree. Brother Piaoyi is so good. Where can I write Wu Yu? It's useless if you go up to stop him now, but I can't let him risk his life. Sometimes men just want to fight for a breath . Where is the dragon- headed staff? Master Zuo, where did you hide it? Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ok , okay , okay , brother, you are injured, it's okay. Oh, Dashuai Zhang, your man seems to be dying. See if you can take a rest and heal him. As a martial arts practitioner, People should have the spirit of martial arts. Since you have signed a life and death certificate, I think you have to abide by it. Commander, I think it's better to forget it. We martial arts practitioners should be kind and tolerant. I have already disabled his martial arts. If he takes his life again, it will be a loss of martial ethics. Master Zhu is rare. It's good if you have such a consciousness . Listen to you. Thank you, Commander-in-Chief , Commander-in-Chief, for saving me. It's really embarrassing for me . Someone , please carry him down here . Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh well. It's great. This time, you won glory for your Chen Style Tai Chi. Yes, Park. If my father knows this, he will definitely be happy for you. Uncle Zhou, it is rare for you to have such martial arts attainments at such a young age. It is really the pride of our Chinese martial arts. I admire Marshal Xie, but it is not that I am superior in martial arts , but that Tai Chi itself is profound and profound. What is exerting is only a small part of his little . I put the banquet on the banquet to make ! Please ask the first two players to line up. I will announce the official start of the Chinese martial arts competition . The next group is Chen Rufeng. The one facing off is King Kong Rufeng. Don't be nervous. Play your own rhythm. Yeah , ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, I will announce this game. The winner was Chen Rufeng. He played well. The last move was so cool. The next ones are Ma Ning Er and Wu Shilin. I announced that the game has started to welcome the spring. I will go and make it convenient. Ning'er, Ning'er, I hope you will think again and don't pester me again . If If you want to fight me, just go to the ring. Overall, this match was a good one , but I found two mistakes on your part. The first one was that you were too anxious when you turned from idle to attack, and the second one revealed your purpose. When it was time to defend, you chose to attack , but Piaoyi I had forgotten to pick up the move. It doesn't matter. I still remember the move at that time. Let's try it and change it. I understand. Now you attack and I defend. I really don't fight. I don't know what the original problem is. Fortunately, the opponent is inexperienced and did not catch your mistakes. If the opponent is a master, the result will be different. So Rufeng , in the next game, you have to remember to stay calm when you need to. Thank you, Piaoyi Hanoi, there are many participants . Among the contestants, who do you think is most likely to reach the finals ? Ma Ning'er and Chen Rufeng. Are you sure you can beat these two? Very good . The game starts. Chen Rufeng wins. I declare that Ma Ning'er wins. Chen Rufeng wins. In this game, Ma Ning'er wins . The game starts . Ah , well, the much-anticipated Japanese karate master He Neijin challenges the head coach of the National Martial Arts Hall, Manil , who is ranked first in the National Football Competition, now officially begins , where do we go, ah , ah , ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , although I I said I don't like Ma Ming'er's personality , but after all, this is a competition between the Chinese and Japanese. Although it seems that the inner core is not very good , it is fatal . Piaoyi, what do you think of me? He didn't listen at all. How can he use it? What about the head-to-head method? Oh, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, get up, get up, get up, get up, let's take him to the hospital. Come on , everyone, look at this Ma Ning'er being beaten by the Japanese. What has happened? This is simply an embarrassment to us Chinese people, an embarrassment to our Martial Arts Academy. I am here to announce that from now on, Ma Ning'er will sever all ties with the Martial Arts Academy. Be careful, be careful, doctor , doctor, be careful, doctor! Come on, doctor , doctor , people, I'm going to find a doctor. I'm going too. My daughter, hold on. It's okay. Hold on. The doctor will come soon. Doctor, hold on. Oh, ah, ah, ah , ah, miss, what are you doing in there, sir? The doctor is doing an operation . The operation is right. Doctor, doctor , are you a doctor? Come on, come on, doctor. Are you kidding me ? I'm busy. I'm a doctor. Please wait a moment . The patient will be back soon . Doctor, he shouldn't be gone too long. Far away , let's go find him quickly, ah, ah, Wei Tao, Wei Tao, Wei Tao , have you seen a man wearing a white cardigan with a broken left hand and right foot leaving the hospital? If not, let's look for him separately. Okay , ah, ah, ah, hey, who is this? Oh , everyone, come and see, isn't this Mr. Ma Ningma , the national martial arts competition champion ? Ma Ning, why are you here? Didn't Zhu Piaoyi send you to the hospital? Chen Bing, you are a Japanese dog, I am a Japanese dog, I am Japanese dog , stop it , Ma Ning'er, I have told you everything I should have told you before, but you insisted on going your own way and now you regret it. I said I never knew what regret is, hahaha, let 's go and die, you ah ah What are you looking at? It's outrageous. Wait for death. Just stop. What are you doing ? I'm not here to work. I'm here to deliver a message. What are you doing standing there? Hurry up and report it. Just wait here for you to go in . It's you again. Ah, I haven't seen you in the past few days, and it seems that the evil spirit has increased again. Do you want me to help you get rid of the evil spirit? And you, the big whale , I just can't figure it out. Why do you have to come to land when you are not hungry in the sea ? Sooner or later you will have to suffocate yourself to death. Then go on and challenge me to see what I do. Huh, I 've never seen a handsome guy before. What's going on ? Who are you ? My name is Chen Rufeng. I 'm from Chenjiagou, Henan. Zhu Piaoyi is my junior brother. I'm here today to replace you. He has already accepted the letter of challenge to this big whale and regrets it. I'm afraid it's too late. Haha , by the way, you should be Miyazaki, right ? Masashi, okay, I've said what I need to say and I've done what I need to do . That's it. I'm leaving. Stop , please tell Zhu Piaoyi. Whoever dares to openly oppose me is not good. The result is , oh, threaten me. You don't need to tell me this kind of thing. I will answer you for Zhu Piaoyi. You, you, and your big whale , listen to me . But who in China has good results ? Let's wait and see. Wu Ling calls Chen Ming. There is news everywhere about Zhu Piaoyi's challenge to Hanoi. Wulin, why didn't you stop it? This must be Liu Yingchun 's trick. Zhu Piaoyi had planned it beforehand, so Liu Yingchun took the lead. I didn't have time yet. Liu Yingchun , you were not in time. Get rid of him. He has brought us so much trouble now. Please rest assured, brother. I will definitely get rid of him. Director Chen Zhu Puyi is much more difficult to deal with than Ma Ning'er. But Hanoi cannot lose this game. What are your ideas? I have thought about many of these ideas, but it doesn't seem to work. Zhu Piaoyi's reputation in Shanghai is getting bigger and bigger. Let's rush to use cold shots and poison before the game . This is not a good idea . If the news is leaked, it will be stolen. I've thought about it. The only proper way is to make a fuss about the rules of the competition. Mr. Miyazaki , you are saying that you want to bribe the referee. If Zhu Piaoyi and Hanoi's kung fu are between equals, then bribery of the referee will be effective. But according to In my judgment, his kung fu is much higher than that of Hanoi , so there is no point in buying off the referee. The only way is to force Zhu Piaoyi to abstain. Mr. Miyazaki , I still don't understand what you made clear. If Zhu Piaoyi is late on the day of the competition , wouldn't he? You're going to lose . Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Mr. Miyazaki is really tall, but this matter can't be done by people from the Black Dragon Society. I'll pay for it, and you'll provide the people. You, Mr. Miyazaki , don't worry, I'll do it beautifully. The impeccable city chief, if the news about this leaks out, I think you also understand what the consequences will be. I understand, I understand, go ahead and do the work , Mr. Tool , don't worry , Hou Neijin, you can never lose in this game, you need this Piaoyi for today's game. We must win. Piaoyi will definitely win. You can go first. We can handle it . Oh, hahahaha. Oh, oh, oh, oh, President Liu. Aren't you and Zhu Piaoyi together? Why did you arrive so early? How come he is here now? He hasn't come yet. Isn't he deliberately delaying the game because he is timid? I'll say something ugly at the front. If he is late, it will be a loss . How can Piao Yi be timid ? He must have been delayed by something. Don't worry, he won't be late. Okay . Yes, please be quiet. Please be quiet . Let me tell you something. This competition was initiated by Mr. Zhu Piaoyi to challenge Mr. He Neijing of Japan. However, he himself is not here yet. We must follow the rules in everything. If we talk about the rules, we must conduct the competition according to the rules. It's less than a minute after the start. If he is late, he will lose. I'm starting the countdown now. 19876543. Wait until I come, okay, okay, okay , okay, okay, okay , now that Master Zhu has arrived, I announce the start of the game , ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh. Yeahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh . The main drift wins this game. Okay sir , wow , win , win , wow, win , everyone , come over, come here. Let me tell you a big news. Zhu Piaoyi is really capable. I saw with my own eyes the match between him and He Neijing that day. He was almost late at first , but at the last moment he fell from the sky. He was no less than a god. Hey, are you talking about the real thing or are you telling a fairy tale? It was the real thing that day. Ah, I was also at the beginning. Zhu Piaoyi didn't have the upper hand . Later, I found out that he first exhausted the Japanese's strength and then launched a counterattack . He slapped him with a few slaps. The Japanese couldn't resist it at all. Finally, he slapped him again . That kid was so powerful that he beat him off the stage. This is strange. He Neijing defeated Ma Ning 2, the first place in the national martial arts competition. Zhu Piaoyi defeated He Neijing 2 again . Doesn't this mean that Zhu Piaoyi is more powerful than Ma Ning 2 ? ? But why is Zhu Piaoyi not the first in the Chinese martial arts competition? You don't understand, right? Zhu Piaoyi did not participate in the Chinese martial arts competition. Let me tell you, the higher the kung fu, the more low-key people are, loving each other and fighting for fame and fortune . Do you know that ? Ning'er and Zhu Piaoyi grew up together. Now you all understand, right? Ma Ning'er's first place in the national martial arts competition is imaginary. Zhu Piaoyi's competition is real. Hahaha, it's really infuriating. Haha, I don't know about that Ma Ning'er. How would you feel if you knew this news? It would definitely be uncomfortable. Not to mention , if he were to find a place to get in, hahahahaha, in my opinion, Ma Ning'er's skills are not good at all. They are all empty. What kind of enemy is that? Is it fake? This Zhu Piaoyi is so awesome . Love me . Congratulations to me, Ma Ning'er. I never know what regret means. If you wait, I will definitely kill you. How about this manuscript about Tai Chi? It's very well written. Hey, Uncle Liu, take a look. You are an expert in Tai Chi. Just take a look. Then I'm going to prepare to see the lights. This time, I must show off the majesty of karate. Thank you for your hard work. Hey . Everyone, look, this is Shanghai today. All the newspapers are reporting the news that Piao Yi beat karate. The karate gym in Hanoi is going to be closed now . Haha , Mr. Pu, why are you not happy with such good news? Come on to me. It's good news , but for Uncle Ma Ning, he was seriously injured by He Naiqing. And I can see that Chen Ming is a snobbish person. I don't know how he is now . By the way, I checked Chen Ming's details. He once I studied abroad in Japan and am proficient in Japanese. I have a close relationship with the Japanese . I suspect that the gangsters who stopped you from participating in the competition this time are probably related to Chen Ming. I really don't understand why the higher-ups sent such a person to take my place. No, Uncle Liu , I have to go and take a look. Ma Ning'er, let's go together. Even if it's just for Ruyu, let's go . Uncle Liu, then let's go. Ning'er, Zhou Piaoyi , I know you will come to me again. You defeated He Neijing. I'm happy for you but sad for myself. I've been growing up since childhood. Everything I want will be taken away by you, and everything I want to do will be done by you. Tonight I will kill Miyazaki and then return to Zhenglong County. You and I will never see each other until death and old age. Zhenglong County is my last place. I hope. Don't stop scolding you. He's going to kill Miyazaki. Ma Ning'er. You're here. Didn't you think of something? I'm here to kill you. Hahahaha. Why kill me ? Because I hate others taking advantage of me. It's the first time you took advantage of me. I came to extort the shares of Dahe battlefield and Roche Pharmaceuticals. For the second time, you used my failure to promote karate. These were all your ideas , so I want you to pay the price. Can you kill me? Killing you now is the same as squeezing one to death. What's the difference between ants? Young man, you're too naive. Yeah , he won't live long. Throw him out in Hanoi. Hmm, strengthen patrols. I don't want this to happen again. Hey, he's already dead. You drag him out. Hey Ni'er, Ning'er. Ning'er, please wake up. Ning'er, Pu Yi is me. I came late, you didn't come late, you didn't come late. This is all my retribution. I used to hate you very much , but the person I hate most now is myself. I have harmed so many people. Don't say this, I Weifang , forgive me, Brother Ma, you have been living in hatred with Piao Yi and you have never been truly happy in your life. I hope you can truly let go and rest in peace in another world. Ning'er, rest in peace. I will give you an explanation. Don't worry, I will definitely take you back to Miyazaki, Plastic Surgery County . What are you doing by bringing so many people to our Federation of Trade Unions? You know it very well. I don't know what you are talking about and you are not welcome. Japanese people , please leave Liuhui immediately. Chief , if and Miss Liu Yingchun next to you , then maybe you can still survive. Please inform Zhu Piaoyi. I didn't expect this time when I was at the back of the Black Dragon Palace. Hey, welcoming the Spring Festival has made a great contribution. Have you ever thought about giving her a gift? Give her a gift. Why? You are stupid. This girl has to make her happy. You should always give her gifts, flowers and the like. What kind of flowers should I give ? Hey , boss lady, please let me ask you. What kind of flowers do you usually give to your lover? Of course, roses are given to your lover. He must be happy for you. Elegant and elegant, you are back. Miyazaki and his people captured Yingchun. He said that he was going to take the account book to the Black Dragon Club to change people . Hey , hurry up and find Yingchun. Yeah , ah , ah , ah , ah, Chen Ming , keep an eye on him . I'll go to the meeting, meet with Piaoyi, and come back and deal with him . Ah, where's Liu Yingchun? Hey, don't move. Zhu Piaoyi, I once said that if we can't be friends, we are enemies. I also once said that we are friends or enemies . If you are not there, I think you are more stubborn than Ma Ning'er. Then your death will be worse than him, the ghost . Xuan Lun Yun says that the root is the reason why the branches and leaves are as black as the roots, and the branches and leaves are luxuriant at the root. The root is the reason why the source is flowing and vigorous. It is as abundant as the flowing water of the Yangtze River. It is inexhaustible and extraordinary. It has a source and goes. It will naturally be powerful and infinitely smooth. It will naturally produce auspiciousness that is astonishingly powerful. Miyazaki , I know you come from a declining military family. You keep saying it is for the benefit of Japanese imperialism . In fact, people like you provoke national conflicts and do not hesitate to start wars. It is just an opportunity to regain your so-called military glory. But for this How many more people are you going to harm out of your own vanity? I tell you that we Chinese are invincible. Since you admit that we, China, are your teachers , then you should know how to respect your teachers, such as Pu Yi. I admit that I said it . Drift, drift, drift . Don't come here, I'll beat you to death, go away, don't come here , please calm down, don't come here, don't come here , don't come here, come here again, I'll beat you to death, do n't come here , don't move , do n't come here, don't come here, don't come here, do n't come here. If you come here again , come here again, I'll beat him to death. Now I'm going to beat him to death. Beat him to death. Ning Chun, are you okay? You are the scum of this nation. It's okay . It's okay . Cousin aunt . Cousin aunt is proud. It's not a good place to stay here for a long time. Like the wind, leave quickly. Go ahead. Let's go, let 's go back, let's talk, let's go, let's go . Pu Yi, General Yang Xing, asked me to tell you that the torrent of revolution has become a surging force. I hope you can make new contributions to the country and the people and revitalize the Chinese martial arts. The position is the teaching of several generals Piao Yi. Piao Yi will definitely follow Chen Rufeng, the new head coach of the Shanghai Martial Arts Center. Humph, your revolutionary plan is to make new achievements. Don't make fun of me . Staying in Shanghai is a contribution to my little ability. You are the one who knows best . In short, I will tell you in one sentence. I, Chen Rufeng, will fight wherever I go . Hahaha, words must be deeds and deeds must be resolute . Hey , when have I tried it ? Take care , take care. Remember to come back often. Goodbye. Goodbye . Take care. After all kinds of ups and downs, Zhu Puyi returned to Chenjiagou and changed his name to Chen Puyi. He concentrated on studying Chen style Tai Chi. Since then, his kung fu has improved to a higher level. After being invited by General Yang Xing, Chen Piaoyi served as the chief martial arts coach of Yang Xing's department. He lived up to expectations and made Tai Chi widely spread in the military. After that, Chen Piaoyi concentrated his energy on the study and teaching of Tai Chi. His disciples such as Tai Chi masters emerge in large numbers and eventually become the masters of a generation. Tai Chi is a treasure of the Chinese nation. Its inclusive, harmonious, dialectical and broad concept and spirit belong not only to China but also to the whole world.