Hurry, move quickly Big brother's new coolie found good food Very good, very good Take him there to work Why are you going there to learn from them? What's your name, brother? I My name is Called Ah San Ah San's last name is Ah Asan Brothers Work hard and my brother won't treat you badly. Thank you bro Let's go by ourselves. How about big brother? List Hold on tight Come here, silly boy Go ahead. Come here quickly Thanks Give it to me if you have nothing to do Brother, what's wrong with your feet? It's okay. It's a little painful at this time. Then you rest first and I'll help you carry it. well Ah Qiang, come here Tea Brother You let him do all your work. What do you eat? Who will take care of my wife and children? Tea Brother I Go ahead Give I can't have Brother, your foot is injured and take a good rest. I'll help you carry your share, don't worry Two are good Ah San strong Add another pack Can't add Did I just say that he can't join? This way, adding one package of labor will double the wages. Brother, I just said that I really can't add you. I'm afraid I can't make this money You have some strength This is so powerful It's obvious that I can carry it but I don't want to. How about four bags of rice and four chips? Can I give you eight? Good strength I can really carry eight sticks. I have some more thoughts Life is here Something There's something about this You can hide it from others for a while But I can't hide it from others for the rest of my life. Do you think so? queue queue Come one by one Come one by one, don't crowd. Come one by one, don't crowd Everyone has a share in staying back Don't squeeze, don't squeeze Is the salary twice as much? twice twice Really flipped Don't crowd, don't crowd, come one by one Come one by one They are the boss They poached all our people here. It's harmful because we don't have enough manpower. Go and have a look get out of the way get out of the way Get out of the way, get out of the way Come on boss Biao Biao what do you mean I can't tell. We're recruiting people. Recruitment I think you're tired of living, kid. You are clearly the one who stole my pole king. Brother Bearer What kind of robbery am I doing? You raise your wages three to four times What are you doing? It's an open grab. Did I hear it right? We don't have knives or guns. It's these coolies who came here on their own. Did I force them? Ask them yourself brother Your boss wants to invite you back Brother Wang, I'm sorry that the wages they pay are high. When I earn the wages here, I will go back and help you. Second No loyalty Four big brothers Did you hear that clearly? You don't have that much freight Why are you robbing me? Boss, this is too much bullying. How can he have so many goods? He clearly won't let us brothers do business. I see it You are deliberately causing trouble for me I've discussed this with you Are you cooperating? brothers People from Huifengtang came to our place to cause trouble. what should we do drive them away drive them away What if they don't leave? beat Did you hear that? I can only let that day happen again beat Big Brother The warehouse is probably going to burn down. Leave it alone and teach them a lesson. Okay, brothers, let's go let's go Brother, are you okay? It's okay, it's okay Why are you running? It's on fire. Put out the fire quickly. It's on fire. It's on fire. Put out the fire. Help! Help! It's on fire, put out the fire quickly Stop fighting and put out the fire quickly Put out the fire quickly Fire Fighting Fire Fighting Help! Help! Put out the fire! Don't be stupid and stand around fetching water and putting out fires. Quick water Quick water Hurry up Hurry up I have long admired the four great names. What I say below is absolutely true I don't know why you said I was acting Your East India Company trades in foreign goods in the name of In fact, they are smuggling opium. smuggling opium Said to let us make money You want to make money that our Qing Dynasty spends on itself? Do you think I was wrong when I said he was acting? That's right, that's right Although it is hard for us to make money But we are worthy of the conscience of heaven and earth Right But these foreigners something That's a gun who fired the gun Who fired the shot and was anyone injured? It was you who fired the gun, right? No accident My gun went off King of pole poles, are you gathering people to cause trouble? No, no, it's not a misunderstanding This gentleman is our client He just wants us to meet the foreign gun That's right, that's right, it just accidentally set off the fire. But no one was hurt here Yes, yes, Du Captou It's really okay here As long as no one gets hurt King of pole poles, don't cause trouble just because you have some skills. Go to work I know, Du Captou is gone. Got separated, gone separated but We are worthy of the conscience of heaven and earth But these foreigners stop In this most critical moment It was this stone that saved my eldest brother's life This stone is on the gun But I always feel like who can hit it from such a long distance? It was set here when I picked it up. How is that possible? It's so far away Let's try it and we'll know, okay? give it a try I'll come, I'll go, let's go You are me I am the second But I am worthy of the conscience of heaven and earth But these foreigners Not the second brother If there wasn't that big of a movement, he was playing with bullets. Play the second brother with your hands Come here and let me try Okay, okay, third child, come here I'm still the second child Me me me come on But I am worthy of the conscience of heaven and earth Third Brother I'll just say it didn't hit. If they can't hit me, let me try. No, no, no, no, none of you can play it. I think he has someone who can play it Who is it? Ah San you saw I didn't see that the situation was like this At that time, the stone knocked down the gun. The gun fell to the ground I glanced out of the corner of my eye Ah San was sneaking around and hiding in the crowd. So through my judgment, it's Ah San Yes, I thought so too you saw No, I just want to Can break a foreign gun with a stone Then who else besides Ah San? If it's really Asan Then he is unfathomable. But I talked to him He is alone at home in Foshan and there is no one around. etc. What if he is a gangster? The murderer is being investigated by the government Run to the dock to avoid trouble Gangsters will work as coolies at the docks If he kills someone and passes the goods Being hunted by enemies Come here to hide No, no, no I see his aura and his little eyes He doesn't look like a gangster either. Such a person can work as a coolie on the dock There must be something unspeakable about him Ah San What's going on with the elder brothers? It's okay, San Thanks Thanks Saved our brother's life Brother Ah San, don't blame me, brother, I don't miss you. This is the best wine for wind pain. Take it and drink it. this Is Ah San not giving us face? How to speak? Don't scare Ah San. Line Ah San doesn't know much about this wine yet. That's it, Ah San This bottle of wine has made us brothers hungry for several days. It was hard to collect the money Qufeng Tongluo wine bought at Baozhilin This is all Guangzhou Brother, this is the best in the Qing Dynasty Who are you scolding? The best medicinal wine in the world for treating bruises and sprains is here Brother Wang, actually I didn't do anything I dare not accept such expensive medicinal wine. You still don't give me face How to speak? It scares Ah San That's it, Asan Let's make it clear We brothers have seen that you are very skilled. I hope you can follow us and conquer the world together In fact, I can come to the dock to work and make money. I'm already very satisfied Ah San My elder brother told you this just to give you face. Don't give you two or two colors, just open a dyeing workshop You have to give us some face, understand? In fact, I will leave the pier after I earn enough money and pay for the expenses. I have no control over the dock. Are you sure you don't want this wine? What do you mean, little brother? Sorry, sorry. I went to work first. (z Hao I will turn into this picture and let people post it here It's all because of Sun Tengjiao Dad and Mom I must bring Sun Tengjiao to justice Capt. Du must catch Sun Tengjiao The only person who can help me take revenge is you. What's wrong, brother? Go out and see if everyone is gone? I go What are you still doing here? It's okay and leave quickly close the door close the door Just for you to take a look What are you shouting about? What happened to brother? Didn't you see the expression on Big Brother's face? It must be something big no I don't know these three words Something might happen today But I don't know where it is Let me see Can you please keep your voice down? Don't you tell me what this water monster looks like? I didn't recognize it when I saw it for a while What should I do if I don't hit it? Is it necessary for you to fight? What do you care? Can you please keep your voice down? So what exactly are we going to fight? Catch unloading goods Isn't the unloading station at Sanhang Pier? Aren't those coolies unloading goods? Mr. Lin Do you really not know or are you pretending not to know? Wang Biao colluded with the English Using Shisanhang Pier to smuggle opium So we don't unload So that's it Otherwise, why would we fight with Huifengtang? Huifengtang still does such a shameful thing Fortunately, I didn't learn martial arts from An. We'll play it by ear later Merchant ships cannot dock due to shallow swollen water So they must transport the goods to the boat first so wait a moment Let's catch them all in the boat good We're not here to fight and grab things. Throw this opium into the river Why don't you report it to the official? Do you know what collusion between government and business is? Are you saying that someone in the government is protecting them? What do you say? If you want to taste some benefits? What is this thing called? We are here to do justice Moreover, the ban on opium was a decree from the imperial court. etc. etc. If you're afraid, it's still too late to go back now Who is afraid of whom? I'm not sure who will scare who away first. Line Can you please keep your voice down? This is no joke Aren't you afraid of being discovered? Go Go Go Why are you wearing so many clothes? You think I'm stupid if I don't wear more clothes when it's so cold? Look, the boat is coming. Let's take action. Don't be impatient and wait a moment Wait until the ship docks Let's do it again Where's the second one? Who? Didn't I tell you there were water snakes here? He saw the water snake dead On board let's go Someone is coming, run quickly Fuck me The third and fourth bastards were thrown into the river Master, do you want me to do it? That's not right If thieves come to rob, why throw it into the river? Must be the Four Weirdos of Guangzhou Go Kill them all and beat them to death. yes Wait a minute, my stomach hurts nailed it My belly My belly I'm dying of suffocation Go fast Come this way Go fast Don't move. Don't move. Don't move. Don't move. Don't move Squat Boss Sun, it's so late What are you doing here? Boss Sun I think this matter has nothing to do with you You'd better come back to the Yamen with me. My belly If it weren't for this masked man today, We are about to go to jail. If it weren't for the official arrival, We must be in disgrace today disgraced Third child, what you said is too polite. That should be called annihilation Look at the masked man coming out from behind He was so cruel that he punched him to death with all his punches. I think this is the case We shouldn't involve Lin Fook Sing Although he hates it No matter what he does, he is still a kid from a rich family. It's not like us gangsters who die. Who can you blame if he wants to go on his own? I think We actually did a great job tonight But when I think about it, I'm really afraid it's too dangerous. Think about this group of people transporting opium That's life-threatening. From now on, we can't act easily based on just one piece of information. Right, right, right And these opium dealers That's all backed by the government behind the scenes. But today is weird too Why did the government come to arrest me? This is a strange thing Are you talking about Du Fei? A fool then. He will take care of whoever reports to the official You can't say that I think this is Du Fei He's still a bit bloody The key to him is who reported it to the official I think it should be the masked man But have you noticed The masked man didn't say a word all night Murphy he is mute I'll kill you. No need to guess We definitely know this person Possibly, very likely sit Ah San I'll ask you one last time Are you That masked man? Brother Wang, have you misunderstood? How could I be? How can I do that? Second San'er No venture, no gain. Besides, the second brother knows what he has Third brother is okay The second brother knows I said it's okay Not You You still don't admit it Brother Wang, this Do you admit it or not? It's a bit too big to play, right? Is it big? Brother Wang Say it in another place Forgot to take it Ah San Say it Brother San, if you weren't me, you would have been stabbed in vain. Look, look, look I said it was him I suspected it was him from the beginning Line You know everything, okay? When Ah San was in Si Ma Yong why masked It's a good thing to be a hero yes In our hometown, that means murder and robbery. Only when you don't want to see others, you should cover your face Master has teachings Could it be that you are masked people? Don't talk nonsense. Ah San didn't mean that. Master once said that if you remove two points from the character fire, you will be a human being. You shouldn't be too pushy as a person Full recruitment, loss and modest benefit Wouldn't it be great if the word &quot;fire&quot; were removed to two o'clock? If you don't speak, you will die. You are so shameless for being uneducated. Okay, no culture at all Ah San, who is your master? who is From which martial arts school? Master has no common name Just a monk in the mountains This old monk actually has such profound power Ah San, I want to meet this person Master has passed away Master has passed away My condolences and my condolences. My condolences and my condolences. Ah San, you are a real person and don't show your face. Please forgive me if I have offended you in the past. Please bear with me Brother Ah San starts from now on You are your own person. We are short of talents like you. The fourth old man, Ah San, said he didn't want to force himself to come forward. Don't make things difficult for others What are you yelling about? You stabbed me and it's still bleeding, you know? Did I write it? The boss asked me to write it. What did I ask you to do? I'm telling you, you're just afraid of getting into trouble You asked me to write it in the first place Besides, Zha, what's wrong with you? What am I telling you to stop arguing? What am I telling you to stop arguing? young master young master What are you shouting? Didn't I ask you to buy herbal tea? Something big happened Did something happen and the boat capsize? That Ah Ah San Ah San was bullied again, right? No, no, no Four Oddities in Guangzhou Four Oddities in Guangzhou Where are the four weirdos of Guangzhou? In the office That's even worse. No no I mean That Ah San, actually he is Let me tell you, Ah San will be bullied to death sooner or later. Walk I mean Ah San is the masked man Asan Brothers Actually, we were not originally called the Four Monsters of Yangcheng. We call ourselves the Four Elites of Yangcheng There are rumors all over the world that we are called four monsters But if Ah San is willing to join us today Then we will change it to How about the Five Heroes of Yangcheng? Heroes Two Heroes Three Heroes Four Heroes Five Heroes Are brothers Asan willing to stay? certainly Because I have to wait until Sun Tengjiao is sentenced before I can leave. Sun Teng-chiao Could it be that you came here for Sun Tengjiao? He killed my father and my mother. My enemy Blood feud But this time I have to thank a few big brothers. Help Ah San thread the needle Otherwise Sun Tengjiao cannot be brought to justice Thank you, big brothers. Thank you, big brothers. No, no, no, we should thank you If you hadn't come to save the four of us, we would have been Thank you, Ah San, thank you Can't do it Master, I would like to ask my disciple to pay homage. Mr. Lin, what are you doing? Master, if you don't agree to be my master today, I can't afford to kneel down anymore Prodigal Lin, what are you doing? You are worshiping me, why can't you worship me? Who worshiped whom? Apprenticeship I didn't bow to Master, but I was the first one to bow to him. Master, I would like to ask my disciple to pay homage. Mr. Lin must not How can I become your master? Masked Master You are the person with the strongest martial arts I have ever seen. Don't be humble anymore If I can't worship you as my teacher today, I'm afraid I'll never find a master as great as you again. I am a masked man But the situation was critical I'm thinking about everyone's safety I can't become your master You'd better find someone else If master doesn't agree to my I can't afford to kneel down Mr. Lin, you and I are about the same age. If you want to challenge martial arts Discuss at any time I'm always welcome. Please get up. Master, I can't beat you I don't want to learn martial arts from you. I just want you to teach me martial arts and be my master Aren't you forcing things on others? Master, have I told you the truth? Disciple is sick Brain is sick Really sick The problem of master and disciple is that they love martial arts and become crazy If you see someone who is better at martial arts than me I have to worship him as my teacher. Otherwise it will take a long time I have trouble sleeping and eating, and I feel dizzy I will die suddenly So Master, you are now my master and you don't just teach me More importantly, save me Saving one life is better than building a seven-level pagoda Besides, saving people is doing good deeds and accumulating virtue. If you are not willing to save me, then you are harming me. Killing me is equivalent to tearing down eight pagodas Mr. Lin, please stop making bad remarks. Do you really want to become my teacher? Master, if you accept my words, I really know the rules. I don't dare to explain all the rules in the world. But at least I know a lot about it. Master, if there are any rules you don't understand in the future Disciple, let me teach you Prodigal Lin, you haven't entered the school yet. I just want to teach my father the rules What a joke Joke, big joke He has few masters Follow one master and follow the same rules Of course I know more rules Mr. Lin, you'd better invite him up quickly. So Master, you promised me, right? Thank you, Master, and pay homage to my disciple. slow brothers Meet Master Disciple Wang Dali is known as the King of Biandan Disciple Chen Shuiwang is known as Herbal Tea Chen Disciple Liu Qiming is known as Blacksmith Liu Disciple Huang Xiangdong is known as Eunuch Huang Commonly known as the Four Monsters of Yangcheng We call ourselves the Four Elites of Yangcheng I would like to worship Master Asan as my teacher Ask the master to take him under his disciples Master, Master, worship and worship You guys can't do this. Brothers, please wake up quickly Dear brothers Aren't you guys doing something wrong? What are you doing? what I bow to you and you will follow suit. what Stealing business? What's wrong with stealing your business? Master Xingxing If you are a sheep, you are also driving a group of sheep, and you are also herding. Just accept us all I promised you, please get up quickly Thank you, Master. Thank you, Master. You sit. You sit. Brothers, please worship me as your teacher It's so kind and hard to refuse I could only shamelessly agree. good But there are some things I still Master, there is something I need to tell you first Our brothers worship the same master Then we will be brothers in the same discipline from now on. There must also be rules between fellow disciples and brothers That is the capital ranking theory You all saw it just now, right? Master, I bow to you first, right? So you have to call me Senior Brother from now on. I call you Junior Brothers Two, Three, Four and Five. Wait a moment That's not how the ranking of capital is based on seniority. What would we do if you were the boss? I tell you, seniority must be calculated based on age Of course it cannot be calculated based on age. If the master accepts thirty-year-olds in the future, Apprentices who are fifty, seventy or eighty years old Third Junior Brother, I'm afraid your position will not be guaranteed either. Have to wait You are messing around Please leave quickly. I have something to do with Master. Go ahead If you have anything to do in the future, tell me, Senior Brother I will report to Master again After I discussed it with Master, Just do as you are told Not a prodigal forest I'm telling you, don't go to the house with your butt stuck in your chest. Promote oneself Let me tell you, this is the territory of our Yangcheng Four Elites If you don't leave, I'll tell you You can only come in vertically and go out horizontally Third Junior Brother, wait a moment Since we worship the same master From now on, we will be classmates. You just asked me to go out sideways That's fratricide Master, let me tell you the first rule today. That is, members of the same sect cannot fight each other. Otherwise, there will be five thunderbolts from heaven. Master, is this a rule? Mr. Lin is very right in saying this. I think from today on All brothers should respect and love each other Live in harmony and help each other The second child That's it, Master Let's not talk about senior brother's problem today. Master, today is also a good day. Why don't we go upstairs and have a drink together in Wanlichun? ok Do you have any money? Of course you took me to book the venue. Please go, master Then I will It won't heal your wound if you drink less. I tell you Unexpectedly, everyone has been looking for the masked man for a long time It's this Ah San Stop making trouble Asan, you have to call me master, too. But he is still Ah San Right? What's the use of talking without practicing? What are you doing? What are you making a fuss about? Come on, come on, master, show your hands Show them your hands Ah Cheng, come and try to bend my arm. come together Good work, Master bald Don't stand on the stool if you can't see it Come and see from the front if you have the ability I'm sorry. You are Ah San transfer Stop talking nonsense and let me try your bridge skills. this is not good Why don't you admit defeat now and become my teacher? If you want, let me try Then I'm making a fool of myself Who else can come and try? I'll come, I'll come What an amazing bridge skill This is simply an iron bridge. I didn't expect Ah San's bridge skills to be so powerful. iron bridge three iron bridge three iron bridge three Weren't you angry with me last time? Yes, you think I am as stingy as you? I like you, I just like you I dare to act boldly and I am not afraid of what others will say. Don't be so loud If you let others hear it then, they will misunderstand you. Do you want to eat it? eat You are now the master of the Four Monsters of Yangcheng Not only the four big brothers And Mr. Lin Prodigal Forest Don't talk nonsense. I'm a senior brother. No way I didn't want to But there's nothing I can do about it if he kowtows and worships me as his teacher. Then you won't have to work as a coolie in the future. How can I make money without being a coolie? You have so many students and each one charges a small amount of tuition. Wouldn't it be possible to make a lot of money? How can anyone make money as a student? Didn't you also teach them Kung Fu? Even if they don't call me Master I will also teach them kung fu Everyone is happy Today's meal is delicious Reminds me of Lin'er's cooking Really? I didn't cook the food anyway. I think you don't need to eat. I'm sorry, Miss An. Ever since I found out that Lin'er married into that house, my heart has been I know some things don't matter Some habits are hard to break Just like I can't help but come to you No, I think Miss An Stop talking Some things still need to be done Stop talking From now on you are not allowed to say a word Anyway I have my freedom I come when I want and leave when I want Obviously You can back out now. You two are getting better Makes people angry Still a good match Otherwise, leave it to me what Beat you up Don't run master You are highly skilled in martial arts He is indeed the perfect choice to be my master. Thanks But You let me learn from this group of coolies I'm not used to it, Master Not used to it Then don't study Master, you are too unkind. You also know how hard I worked to become my teacher. How could I give up so easily? Okay, then come early tomorrow Master, I am Shaodong from Bao Zhilin You let me learn with the coolies Isn't this a joke? Then I am also a coolie You apprentice with coolies Isn't it more ridiculous? Master, Master, you misunderstood me. I really didn't mean that I mean tell me You let me learn with the coolies It's too slow for me Please let me finish. Then you mean that your basic skills are very good? How can you say it is good? That's very good Yeah master Mr. Lin, let's learn the basic skills first. master young master I seem to be really weak Be careful Come careful Ah San What's wrong with you Flashed to the waist Aqiang, what's wrong with you? Flashed to the waist It's okay to rest for a while You work first I'll take him to have a rest OK Slow down Wait a moment Don't sit down yet alright It should be fine alright Ah San Why are you so powerful? How did you do it? No It's just that the elders in the family have passed down some active techniques. Your family runs a medical clinic, right? He will also heal and give medicine It will also relax your muscles and activate your muscles. Just a little understanding of the fur It's not medical science Make you laugh Now it's getting harder and harder to do hard work Not many years It doesn't hurt here That's where it hurts getting older I really don't know what to do next In fact, I think you are all using your strength inappropriately. This will happen So what should be done? In fact, the biggest mistake You used the strength of your arms. Of course I have to use my hands to carry the goods. In fact, the most powerful part of the human body is the legs, followed by the waist. Why did you hurt your waist? It's because it increases the load on the waist That's why it's easy to get hurt Brother Qiang, look use correct posture Use your leg and waist strength The arm is just an auxiliary No wonder I often hurt my shoulders and waist It turns out that this is the truth Yes Do you want to prevent injuries? Just train your legs and waist That arm is just a support Ah San can you teach me Of course no problem But you need to relax your muscles recently You can start practicing again after a while Thank you Master Brother Qiang Don't make fun of me like they did Ah San I really want to become your teacher iron master The master's wife is here Then hurry up and eat Brother Qiang, I'm leaving It's time to eat Do you still want me to feed you? Miss An There's something I want to make clear to you etc. Did you notice anything different about today's dish? Your memory Do you still remember the dishes your mother served me that day? These are the dishes Are you very touched? Although my nanny's craftsmanship may not be better than your mother's But is it my intention anyway? Eat quickly Come Miss An You don't need to do this to me Of course Ah San Ge Do you know how popular you are now? Everyone knows you are Iron Bridge Three What about me? As the tide rises, all boats lift, too. I am also very hot now Of course Everyone knows that you are the eldest lady of Huifeng Hall, right? No, it's not Because everyone knows that I am from Iron Bridge Three Don't ever say it who are you to me Who is it? all in all As long as you tell it Things are going to be troublesome master I really don't understand Why do you want to leave, you're such a good person? yes master If someone bullies you you tell us There we are You are stupid With Master's skills, he can be bullied Something happened in my family Must go back It has nothing to do with other people Master, do you need help? It's not a big deal actually Just wanted to see it for myself Have some snacks Then you have to come back after watching it irresponsible master We need to talk things out You are leaving this time Is it because Sun Tengjiao was released? no Yes and No no What do you mean? What the master said is It means that Sun Tengjiao was released Will definitely investigate until then Master will inevitably have to fight Sun Tengjiao Once Sun Tengjiao knows the identity of his master, It will be difficult for Master to avenge his parents again indeed It can also be explained this way Big Brother That's not what it means I have no idea No, I mean I don't want to delay Miss An Aren't you and Miss An already discussing marriage? Look You just misunderstood If it continues like this I'm afraid things will become even more unclear. What's this Didn't you and Miss An do that a long time ago? I do not accept What don't you accept? Speak clearly You don't accept Master and girl An being together? Still don't accept that Master is leaving? master I think what happened between you and girl An It can be explained clearly This doesn't mean you have to leave Besides, we haven't practiced much with our fists and kicks. This time you leave We're all lost Master once said No need to practice Kung Fu Practice deeply Just like the kung fu I taught you some time ago You guys practice hard given time I believe I can become a first-rate master master Master, please stay master You stay master Just stay Master, please stay Brother Qiang Several elder brothers You are all too polite The title Master I really can't bear it master Usually you see how hard we work as coolies If only I could get guidance from my master Not only will work become easier I won't be bullied casually in the future. yes stay There are some big brothers from the Four Monsters of Yangcheng here. I believe they will take good care of you Nothing will happen Although the Four Monsters of Yangcheng take good care of us coolies, But their abilities are limited Otherwise, you don't have to mask yourself to save people. Please master, please stay and teach us kung fu we need you master master Master, please stay I accept everyone's thoughts. Actually, I have some things to do. Master's business is our business Just ask us to do it for you immediately right Master's business is our business Master, tell me Just say it I Just need to find someone Find someone It would be better for us to find someone so many of us One day for us is better than your search for one month If master doesn't want to teach us Then at least you can teach us how to use force This can be considered a meritorious deed, right? Yes, Master Just stay master Please accept my disciple's bow Master, please stay under Let me introduce it to you Our master in Bao Zhilin today Iron bridge three master You see, everything is almost ready. You will come and unveil the plaque for us later It's officially opened No no I never thought about opening a martial arts gym I, Bao Zhilin, have been selling medicines for generations. Moreover, the word &quot;Martial Arts School&quot; was not added after Bao Zhilin. You teach people martial arts I sell medicine It's also very low-key. Not ostentatious at all I see This head It's better for you to step out master master master master Look what you are doing Our master's real skill No need to hang a sign to open a martial arts gym There are still people who want to learn from their masters I know master You see so many people came Lin Fook Seng is indeed quite sincere. Otherwise, please give me some face master Aren't you looking for someone? If Bao Zhilin's reputation can be built up, Maybe that person will come to your door by himself. Right, right, right That's right That's right Come on Master Come, come, come Hold this thread Plaque unveiling ceremonyO THE Start nowO Hurry up and learn kung fu Go to a martial arts studio to learn kung fu Otherwise there will be no place hurry up Go Go Go These coolies don't work at the docks What have you been doing? You don't know They all went to learn martial arts I heard that prodigal Lin Xin opened a martial arts gym It's that Iron Bridge Three I heard it's awesome practice martial arts Iron bridge three What's the origin Don't mess, don't mess The back row is straight Straighten it out queue What about you? That's it Line up behind the two fishing for fame Walk Let's go Iron bridge three Come out You two want to come here to learn from your teacher. Our Cai brothers Not here to learn art Come to play This is what I said We're here to play football Playing in the gym Please leave inside Please come inside Whoever comes here is not kind Didn't see it These two have mental problems I'm afraid to do something here Will hurt innocent people Why don't you put it in first? Close the door and beat the dog two well said well said I said I said Iron bridge three We're here to play Masters, what are you doing here? Iron bridge three You're not driving this crap Broken martial arts hall? How powerful is that? Are you going to Guangzhou Street? I don't care about all the martial arts schools. two masters There must be a misunderstanding It's better to say it inside please two seniors I never said it outside It must be the disciples who are talking nonsense outside. I will definitely teach him a lesson Ah Cheng master Why don't you apologize to the two of you quickly? Apologize Why apologize? what did you say outside Not what I said It's the two of them who are really sick. Beat him Sit down first What to sit on Please have tea Be careful chair Drink tea Please get up quickly you you you Stop being embarrassed Let's go The pants are all open Iron bridge three I am Ouyang Chong from Baji Quan Why do you say that our Bajiquan is a heresy? Iron bridge three I am Nangong Biao from Baguazhang you doll The egg yolk has not receded Mao is full of Why do you say that our Baguazhang is just a fancy fist and embroidered leg? Iron bridge three I am Shangguan Fei of Tongji Quan How many kilograms do you have? Dare to say The through-arm boxing is a children's trick If you have the guts, come out and see which one is better, Tongjiquan or Fuhuquan. Iron bridge three Listen to me I am Situ'e from Wulang Gun You kid is talking nonsense. He said my kung fu was taught by my master's wife vulnerable asshole Come out and challenge yourself if you have the ability I'll let you taste the power of my Wulang stick Iron bridge three I am Gongsun Yue from the Soul-Destroying Gun Why do you say that My soul-cutting gun can't cut off other people's souls You can only cut off your own soul If you have the guts, come out Fight alone Let's see who cuts off whose soul Iron bridge three I've been hearing a lot of noise lately in the martial arts world Talk about our Guangdong Iron Bridge III handsome High martial arts skills Combining hardness and softness in boxing Both inside and outside I practice Xingyiquan I heard that you made rumors Say Xingyiquan is no match for you I can't do three moves on your hand You come out Let me see If you are really handsome I'll let you go Only hit half of your face Leave you half face Under the Iron Bridge Three I don't know if all the masters are coming to visit us. What's the point? Second senior brother Look, Wang Biao is here too I heard that an iron bridge three-year-old was recently released from Guangzhou. Great at talking I don't know how to use fists and kicks So I would like to ask my martial arts colleagues to have a meeting Let's see if you, Iron Bridge Three, have the ability to gain a foothold in Guangzhou. I think you masters have misunderstood I can't be said to be eloquent Why is Cha so arrogant? Say it again The real boss of Bao Zhilin This is my apprentice Lin Fucheng He also has no ability to draw boundaries in Guangzhou What does it mean to seize territory? So this matter Must be a misunderstanding Ah Cheng You take everyone in first close the door Take everyone in Master this go Stop looking Let's go listen to master Go Go Go Which master should I invite first? Heli transfer transfer Baguazhang transfer Thanks transfer Ando Lord What's the matter Anbao is here Ando Lord Give mercy to others