The U.S. government has public transportation. We're spending far more, on road improvement and on transit. New Yorkers are on edge as the city's subway system I would say, been a deterrent for some The number of overall has also dropped the pandemic. One be faster than busses but than the subway system, transit or ART. 17 minutes. That's how long Americans get on public transit in Transit in the U.S. is awful, with few places it's infrequent. It's not all day. It's unreliable. Meanwhile, 45% of to public transportation The real problem in the transit deserts, right? I mean, these are just complete and total anywhere on transit, know, to play, to pick up You just can't depend on The U.S. spent $79 billion yet most public transit finding itself in a In 2021, the U.S. was $176 billion behind conditions of public That backlog is expected the year 2029. Ultimately, it's the the deficit. The pandemic money is there will be I think increases. But even more, politics of it, there and in many places have So just how did public get so awful and can it The U.S. government has public transportation. When we talk about money funding. But when we talk money for roads, we often We're spending far more, on road improvement and on transit. For example, U.S. railways combining rail grew by 945 miles During the same period, over 100,000 miles. In transportation, we very we're talking about local it's very often only History plays a big role There was a time when the boasted a public transit of the world. Prior to 1920s, we had a in our cities. These were trams that were middle of the street. You convenience. They were didn't have to plan During its peak in the cities averaged more than year, but the electric from profitable. Inflation drove up the businesses were unable to and services quickly result. When the streetcar private, went to the and said, please help us, governments and of government wasn't period, basically turned By the end of World War companies were already in found its newest People who wanted to sell as an all-purpose instead of a special And when they turned it really convinced a lot of to go everywhere and that modern, progressive city lets you drive And with the influx of policies, cities began to cars. They forced private whenever possible, to lines. They they created to speed up automobiles. They built parkways, they And when people said, wait the right way to do it? The answer was, oh, it's It's a free market. Drivers are voting with need to build the roads who are paying for them. There is a kind of a time investment in highway transit infrastructure in There was at least 40 to federal government did transportation funding Today, that disparity is Partizan differences. The ratio in which between highways and main point of contention infrastructure bill. Democrats wanted just 20% towards mass transit, for less. Democrats pass the bill through the We have identified the individual liberty. We also associate suburban and rural transit we associate with Those correlations then correlations of similar more driving tends to be in more conservative, rural areas. A study from 2021 revealed respondents believe that shift more trips towards and bicycling. While 53% of transport policy should people to drive. The discrepancy was even or conservative It's very hard politically momentum. Cities are a states very hard to get very powerful in almost very hard to get federal because, again, the because it's a relatively very small. It can be 1%, That's not the loud The loud voices are going Funding is one of the main state of public transit Right now, the federal services is largely costs. That means, you infrastructure or buying But the operating costs services are really Public transit relies because it's still far business. Take the MTA, public transit, for than a quarter of the rider fares. By dedicated taxes and governments made up 40% The cost of living, the cost of construction, all 50 years has far exceeded fares. Current subsidies simply costs. The MTA's finances pandemic, resulting in federal government, yet deficit of $1.9 billion This problem extends Philadelphia's Septa deficit of almost $269 Chicago's RTA predicts a by 2026, while LA Metro's reach $1 billion by the These financial deficits deteriorating services. If a transit system we can limit the hours of We can limit the can limit the extent of But all of those things encourage people to In a 2022 survey on transit, Americans chose arrival times as the would encourage them to often, right behind lower Public transportation is United States is because Mass transit need mass to Ridership has continuously after seeing a steep drop ridership has failed to levels. It's a vicious cycle, If we have less users, difficult to justify investment in that become more difficult to And because you have a service, you will users and riders. If the riders are either and or do not provide a those costs, you have to public subsidies. And in structure of funding for insufficient to basically missing enormous chunk of and capital. But a thriving public beneficial for all The American Public estimates that 87% of benefit the local billion in transit the private sector. A dollar invested in to generate $5 in I mean, look what happened Where did Amazon locate Right where one of the transit systems operate. Transit is really great gives them more options, In terms of labor. We can connect people to including people who an automobile, which is a to buy and to operate and When you don't have else becomes a domino You may end up with not family and friends, not appointments and, you good income to sustain And in the end, it can themselves. The more we attract people other forms of public are driving on the roads. And that makes driving to drive. Ultimately, the future of whether it can receive needed to improve To break the vicious significant investment government. I mean, I local innovation so we this magnitude. We'd have to spend a lot to get a to get systems operate because you'd ridership. Cities can also be to better serve public The kind of density levels have very difficult to transit, even busses, you neighborhoods, and really important. You have to change the around transit. I conceptualize the public space. If you think about we have really help backgrounds come There is a diminishing have in our city. If we have good public it's like the core spaces backgrounds, different race, ethnicity to And I think that's very of our society. The average number of City subways in 2019 was By June 2023, paid was 3.6 million, down 34% The Metropolitan the operator of more than than 5,700 busses, two of commuter trains, and tunnels saw farebox 37% from its 2019 levels. If you're looking at a operating budget before came from fare revenues. When you're still missing revenues and you have to service, that obviously budget. Remote work is blamed for Compared to their 2019 workers were at their the time during the mid Fridays. Fears about have also impacted the subway service. New Yorkers are on edge as the city's subway system Three subway murders have two weeks alone. Now to the search for the have left a subway rider accused of pushing that headfirst into the side I would say, been a deterrent for some I think that folks safety in numbers. A surge in people not impacted revenue, too. Fare evaders cost the MTA across its network, 38% year. People are less rule to, and that includes Also, TikTok young people jumping turnstiles in and it makes it feel more you're seeing it modeled social media. To stem those losses, the its fleet of subway CNBC got a behind the tech barrier that the considering. In the old days, you had a when you paid your fare, you push through the very old school. What we've done is a big We're leveraging not just also a completely design, a much more Fare revenue is a critical budget. So when will New return, and what can the evaders? The New York in 1904, and was private companies with The first route was built Interborough Rapid fares of just $0.05 a The line is credited with and unleashing a housing The original two private Brooklyn and Manhattan They made what we now lines, or the B Division Transit Company, which numbered lines with the A By 1940, New York had systems. In June of that consolidated, creating systems in the world with tracks. From the early 20th before World War Two, to city was focused on and maintaining subways. Seemed like mass transit would get away a dense But in the '50s, support with successive a future of roads and the car. The subway decay in the 1970s, with covered in graffiti. This subway station is the ways than one. At this hour. Bodies roll drugs, or just because a convenient bed. On an average day in 1981, A third of all subway car trains caught on fire Crime was abundant. Subway vigilante Bernhard allegedly threatened him It's about time somebody Nobody's protecting us on But as the crisis consensus to rebuild the We're not going to have a we rebuild the subways. So early 1980s, state a dozen taxes to fund system and began to assets, get rid of the New York City Police later, started to control In addition to that a 10-year, $14 billion to restore the system and survival. Between 1980 increased roughly 70%, almost 1.7 billion But by 2017, overcrowded deferred maintenance or leading New York Governor state of emergency. We know the system is I think of it as a heart You basically see a series The MTA faces a new figure out a new set of The eve of the pandemic, success story. You know, perfect, but only 1 or 2 subways with ridership of you were ever going to Well-funded, you had half fares and tolls, the these tax subsidies. And the infrastructure condition. But the pandemic changed As ridership plummeted to problems arose. The MTA handles about a transit users, about 2.6 alone. More than 13% of subway riders didn't pay quarter of 2022, up from same period in 2018. On an average weekday, fare evaders, enough to times over. The problem first quarter of 2023. Fare evaders cost the MTA including $285 million on on busses, $44 million on million on bridges and While enforcement is up, notoriously difficult. It's extremely hard to I would estimate there to the subway system. To curb unlawful behavior, replace turnstiles. As I step into the aisle The cameras are sensing the screen, you see that the big red blob here That's me conduit, which electronic toll France's national rail this system. You think about the systems that go into that advanced to be able to parents, from luggage, unwanted individuals or through. Tall plexiglass doors make more difficult. Flashing lights and an evader is trying to decided which tech it along with other vendors, at a public MTA meeting This is not your fare evasion. It's fresh. It's different. It's It can also detect if piggyback or cheat the If I pay my fare and behind me and doesn't pay determine that they get busted. In New York, the majority happen when someone open. About 20% of people 16% slip through the gap, Most offenses occur roughly the same time Inflation could be not paying their fares. A lot of it has to do with It's one more cost that to incur when they're costs for rent and other expenses. And often they see the turnstiles as worthwhile ticket. While low-income residents discount on subways and of eligible New Yorkers, have enrolled in the New Yorkers can't afford transportation. In the MTA's case, if we would have we'd have And so it's well worth a collection system that stable is the important While fewer straphangers MTA's revenue, systems in cities have been hit even Riders on Chicago's L at 50% of their At the same time, C. S Metro saw a similar The MTA's operating While majority of that from taxes and subsidies, billion, came from fares. By contrast, fare revenue commuter trains in 2019 billion, or 38% of the revenue. To make up for received billions in It is also increased its subways and busses, to promised an infusion of over $1 billion annually, in the New York State Congestion pricing, to mass transit, will annually and benefit the more to enter Manhattan But why do New York City European counterparts? For starters, New York notoriously expensive to Our cost of building times at the upper end. What it costs to build a So it's not so much that projects, although that But it's that even when projects, like building digitizing the subway these trains more much more than they would world. Phase one of the Second example. Along Side opened in 2017 at a Phase two of the project, 96th Street to 125th open until 2030, will Greater Paris. The RATP, capital budget as the billion or $55 billion, hundreds of kilometers of We're not doing that. We're going to get a Second Avenue subway and broken stuff. New York City's strict high labor and been blamed for much of If you think of world Singapore, there is in their mass transit Here in the United focus. Public transit compared to our highways outside of the transit This country really Large debt payments are While more than half of expense budget went to the Staten Island Rail, back debt. The remainder Railroad, Metro North tunnels. A debt payment example, is enough to run system for an entire The MTA has to be in this for state assistance and This was happening long pandemic. Every couple of reach out with its hands fully committed line of ensures the ability of operations and capital consistent basis. And that trend could and hybrid policies It could take years subway ridership return levels. Where is the transit Ideally, you've got at least 95% of where it Your commuter rail system It's more like a European where the price is not a subway ticket, and the was in 2019. I don't believe that we'll are required to be in the days a week, as they don't know if we'll get Stand clear of the closing Only about 2% of Americans transit like subways or Ideally, it's fast, carry a lot of people, of funding, legislative essentially only be found U.S. The most recent the Second Avenue Subway. Only the first phase of if it's fully funded, it 16 stations from Harlem Side, carrying an day. But projects like undertaking. When cost would be upwards of Not to mention, the first 2017, and construction on even started, largely It wasn't until a recent from the U.S. Department the city started making forward with phase two. But the most obvious and a subway system is a bus, commuters use. Because busses sway, they There's a lot of shudder And that's the big in busses. It's why many them. And that might be why the half the amount of system, despite the fact routes compared to just The number of overall has also dropped the pandemic. One be faster than busses but than the subway system, Transit, or ART, which is transportation system. It's a fully electric by CRRC, a mass transit It's been deployed in is being considered in a the world to connect systems in a suburb or on The first ART system in 2017, which is country via high speed lacked a proper mass million residents. And they had the same metro systems across the but how to get to them, rail systems, how to join That meant going down But when they came to were trying, they found It was too disruptive. So they invented rail which they were technology and put it in But because it doesn't run and instead runs with track painted on roads, glorified bus. I went there thinking, something hiding like a It'll look like a light bus. But when I rode it, different. I could find on a train. The reason being, autonomously guided and cameras and stabilizing acceleration and active it a smoother ride. While it can be taken on any road like a bus, follow a predetermined Right now, it's used in China, as well as in Crrc is sending a couple Perth, Australia, later He plans to invite city planners from across the action once they arrive. We've been working in Melbourne and in Perth these places, the local out where they wanted to have development that bring in the urban want as well. And where these trams can them unique. The follows distinct painted routes can be changed light rail. The ART $2.2 million, and is one fifth the price of a per mile. Having a trackless tram as light rail does and yet that's the great And I think having a to make it very But as with every form of as good as the supports it. Similar to other mid-tier transit road can come with So for these transit efficiently, they need to flow or designated lanes cars. But where you need it to you're getting close to a to get into that station priority. No other cars walkable for people to New York City has the the United States, but as rejuvenated, it's become Now, areas that have like Fort Greene and disconnected from the train lines outside of other notoriously if you're living in trying to get to eastern go into Manhattan and side as opposed to largely because there are and the bus routes are change this have not seen The BQX or Brooklyn proposed in 2016 as a would stretch 11 miles all the way to Astoria, We are in Brooklyn Bridge Atlantic Avenue and is where the proposed BQX You know, most people is dead in the water rail is just very, very Cities all over the world systems that either get happen at all because of rail in the roadbed. It's highly disruptive to community to for expensive. Lisa Chamberlain has been consider trackless tram a streetcar route. The roughly $1.7 billion. But I think that there is which is known as depending on the anywhere from one tenth of light rail. So an ART system in place proposed BQX line would efficient alternative if it can travel up to 43 cut into street parking So the big obstacle to my the fight over street Putting aside a of way for trackless tram And if we can't muster New York City to do that, experience it. While autonomous rapid relatively early stage of established in Chinese cities since begins to prioritize infrastructure, help growing American