Hermes has been one of the luxury for nearly 200 They're not the biggest. They're certainly not the But when it comes to desirable, that is expensive, but that is status brand. Hermes stands by itself. The brand offers a variety handbags are the most Celebrities, leaders and chance to buy a Birkin or say accounts for a quarter And they can fetch a hefty resale market. When we look at brands, the judge is desirability. Surprise, surprise, once the top of the list. It's the world's fourth by revenue, and by close on soared to more than its market cap to more than Despite a global luxury impressive sales and maintaining its centuries scarcity at the forefront, They've managed this this traded company, they have have strong margins, but exclusivity. And that that special thing to have different tiers of they have mastered the art Hermes was founded in Paris who initially made saddles for European The brand later moved to Saint-Honore, where it has Its renowned products have from the Kelly named after Monaco or the Birkin encounter with actress Jane Hermes was even the first from the US. They spent a lot of time leathers, stitching et close attention to the customers. And that is unparalleled. That craftsmanship and awareness their wealthy customers, The company doesn't partner spends considerably less on competitors when it comes products. Even the elite cultivating a relationship making several purchases Kelly or Birkin. There's released per year with a styles. A client can only Kelly purses per year, for You're holding a Birkin bag, limited edition. It's not just that you know that to get that bag, that. Hermes is a vertically still run by the founding Interviews are rare. It declined CNBC's request, They always want to be there is demand for. So that's fewer stores, sales than the market would less than the market They can smooth over and downs. They are very keen to stick way of doing things. Think about, for example, that has got the industry There were very little Now that it has been guess that they have been DNA. While Hermes' store count is competitors, its revenue is You could say that Hermes weight when it comes to and certainly status. They are top of the Bernard Arnault made such a The run Frank is referring battle between Hermes and after he built a more than becoming its largest Today, LVMH holds no Arnault family owns just A good measure for how much company's future growth is Hermes is more than double 2020 four's third quarter, revenue growth, while Gucci owner Kering reported declines in sales. The company's share price the start of 2024, while and 40%, respectively. The luxury industry is going right now. You've had the Those are the people that just like to splurge once handbag, pair of shoes, Those customers have not faded away. Hermes hasn't been In its Q3 2024, it did see regions compared with the year. The company noted in still facing lower traffic, spending more money per The luxury goods industry period of weakness. We've of semesters. Hermes is double-digit rates. You could see some slowing, so, depending on what America and in Europe since Luxury prices have increased The cost of Hermes' most higher. In the past few years. Their price increases have their competitors. Chanel, They have by far the most pricing to the tune of 8%, handy in a year when the a global cyclical slowdown. Keeping its products identity, and. Yet they haven't really innovative. Aside from new of traditional products. And yes, those things are And that's the look and the But at some point, those seen their time. They could establish more leather goods. I'm thinking drive the revenue growth there's cross-subsidization other. And there's always the risk from a reputational legal. Fakes are a $4.5 Hermes has spent millions fight them. Though the been as affected by a aspirational buyers, higher could push away even the Falling share prices across of what's to come. Hermes also faces concerns tied to its use of Climate change could impact materials like Brazilian and finally, exclusivity. While some deem that to be company has been so backfire. A class action California, accused the customers to spend to buy a Birkin, alleging Plaintiffs revised their October 14th, 2024, after proof for the case to Imagine any other business and you say, here's bag. And they say, no, and spend hundreds of thousands belts, on other bags, and that. So it's not just, no, you're going to have to be eligible to buy it. I mean, it's a devious It sounds insane to most keys to their success.