I announce that the winner of the Womenswear Designer of the Year award is seven Thank you for giving me the Oscars of the fashion industry But I'm getting married Return to the family today. Please keep my information confidential. Thought I 'd live a happy life Didn't think I Lin Jianghai, are you still human? I do laundry and cook at home, and Tianxian supports you in setting up Lin's Group. As a result, when you became president, you took out insurance. Come on, come on, look at them. They're young, beautiful and models. What about you? Huang Lianpo, my brother is the president of Lin's group, which has the largest market value in Jiangcheng. And I'm a popular model, and my brother is a match. You are a housewife Can only reach out to tube brother for money Good. You're a no-three, no-four, no-fob A heartless, shameless, skinless It seems that Yuelao's garbage classification is really in place. You two really match I'm so sick of you Divorce is good. Leave Just wait and see You can't live without your brother, an incompetent housewife like you. Society will teach you a lesson. Can you two get out of the way? Be careful. I'll teach you both a lesson. Hmph, let's go 17 my father. Dad. I was wrong I shouldn't be a man Ruined his own future. It's good to leave Come back and continue to make a down payment This is a home gift for you 0.1 billion Sea View Villa Plus 10 million Cruise And 5 million of gold, a full 20 pounds Thank you, Dad. Not only will I return to Jiang's house I also want to revive my fashion brand Chen assistant Notify the finance department to immediately dial 0.2 billion to hold a new product launch for my daughter. Sweetie, international designer sevin is coming back for a rookie show I was brushed down The eyes of the entire fashion circle are on this show. Do something for me. Then I'll spend 5 million on his assistant Don't worry, you will be selected. All I have to do is curry favor with Mr. I'm sure I'll be a hit. It's so late, it's time to protect skin and sleep. It's a big show in half a month. I'll work overtime. And I'm too busy working these days Even if I didn't have time to buy skin care products, I knew you were busy. I bought you the Miracle Cloud Cream of Aquamarus Mystery Use it for a period of time, my return to the big show is full. good teacher zhang Is the show all set up? Mr. Severn, you can rest assured that I will handle my affairs. I can be your assistant. It's really an honor The catwalk will begin soon Please take everyone to their seats at the front desk. Wow. Not the kui is teacher Severn's show It's too lined Why are you two here? Jiang 17, how did you get in with a housewife My brother paid a lot of money to get in. With my size and appearance Must be the favorite model of the three teachers Ha ha ha What teacher seven hates most is your moral corruption. A woman who seduces other people's husbands As far as you know what the three kings are thinking I'll call Mr. Severn's assistant and tell you to fuck off. I bought off Assistant Wang. Good. Then I'll shoot it now You think you're Miss Severn Still dare to open his side of the red man That's ridiculous, yeah He waited on people's lives all his life. Please welcome the fashion Oscar winner Teacher Severn Wow. He is teacher seven Once the Oscar winner of the fashion industry He is really three teachers I didn't expect that the three teachers were not only talented The model is not lost. This skin condition is too good Guys, I need to clean up some junk before this show starts. Assistant Wang You collect money to help people through the back door My job is to not need people like you You're fired. Take Mr. Let me explain, Mr. As for you Not worthy to wear the clothes I designed to take off for me Don't touch me. What are you doing? You Even if you are a famous designer, so what My husband is the president of Lam Group, the number one in Jiangcheng. You disgrace me Do you know your own end of the river city ranked first very good Isn't that Longbin, the richest river in the city? Why is it here? Having offended my daughter, the cooperation of Lin's group was canceled. As for your entire industry ban Jiang 17 is the daughter of the richest man How is it possible Mr. severn, please give me another chance I can give you a chance Uh-huh. But I don't know if the audience will give you a chance Because my show is live around the world. It's awesome. It's over. It's over. Please don't break up with me have a lively look I am so handsome Not rotten tail, gossip all right so handsome, ouch it's okay Car repair fee 1 million My lawyer will contact you 1 million steal the money. How do you talk to my president This is a Rolls Royce I think you want to protect If you have something to say, don't do it. The car repair fee is divided into installments. How many periods Three generations, really. My monthly salary is 3500 After eating and drinking, wait for two hundred and one million to return, 416.66 meters. Three generations are just about the same. You have good skills Come and be a security guard for me. I'll cover it with food. Good boss to work tomorrow This is your bedroom Usually go out to drive a nanny car BMW's probation period is one month. If you can't do it well, you will leave. I can do this job by living in a luxury house and driving a luxury car. return to the boss I did five rounds today. All the dogs passing by let me run away. Rest assured I'm here No danger can be close to a cent. My wolf. I see you are my greatest danger If your security guard doesn't pass the probation period, don't leave. Boss, you have to go on a blind date today I said don't rush me to get married Grandma, I'm Zhou Tong's girlfriend I found someone to calculate She and I want to be happy in grade 2027 for a lifetime. Good good, grandma urged again You're welcome, you just have to promise me one small request. Let you work as a security guard for a day Is to let you experience my hard work Lest you always stand high and talk and sway Are you only living today? Oh, boss, don't be angry Eat a strawberry humidifier and say that you are not qualified to come to this high-end community. It turned out that I found a security guard as my boyfriend. After breaking up with you poor bastard I found a rich woman It's the owner of this apartment. What's so great about living in an apartment? See this villa? My boyfriend's single-family villa is worth over 100 million yuan. Do you see my letter? There's an owner-only jewelry dinner tonight. Your boyfriend is a villa owner You get up Don't worry, you must change hum Please, please. Help me. You don't have an hour, wow. This skin is dry and powdered. The fine lines become so obvious It seems I... I'm dressed up, what to wear Miss Jiang, this is the dress that Mr. Zhou ordered for you. Didn't you say your ex-girlfriend was coming too? People, Jiang 17 is indeed a liar I found a small security guard and said that the invitation letter of the mansion owner could not enter without entering. You look beautiful Smelly security guard, steal the owner's ticket to come in The lowest price of jewelry is millions. Can you afford it? 17 What would you like? Oh. Which one is so beautiful This is very difficult to choose Not to say that you can't make it like this no matter how rich you are. Since I can't choose, I won't choose. I want it all. I'm almost 0.1 billion the first time I 've added up. How luxurious that must be Mr. credit card payment failed, ha, ha, ha Poor security guard, don't pretend to be Mr. Zhou Zhou Zong I'm sorry You 0.1 billion want it, and suddenly here's 20 million cash. First give you emergency Please give us an hour to bank I'm going to raise money right away Who the hell are you This is Zhou Tong, the richest man in the province. What He is Zhou Tong Your boyfriend upset my girlfriend I know you're rich But I didn't expect you to be so rich You will also become very rich Because what's mine is yours. After the week 5L dragon is alive again Tiger ginger eats chicken king team leader, you walk to work If you usually work more shifts in the company. You can take a special bus like me. Don't mention how noble oh, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas Director, there is a project to help students in mountainous areas. Just you, take Jiang Zhixi with you Great. This is the most meaningful job I 've had since I went to work. Let me go to the countryside My feet never left the cement road. Hello, Miss Zhao. Hello Xiao Juan entertains guests well The teacher went to Shenglan's house Goodbye, teacher, Xiao Juan We are employees of the function This time is specially to see you Happy? Hum It's so cold outside Why are you still wearing sandals Come, sister brought you new shoes and new clothes. There are extra-curricular books Thank you sister You come all the way, hungry All the eggs in the family have been sold and the tuition fee has been paid. I saved two for you to eat. Who wants to eat? What do you think your hand is black? Also too not pay attention to hygiene It's okay, we don't eat people Just get the hell out of here This is my room There's not even a table Where do you usually do your homework That's what I wrote on it. Sister, can you tell me about this problem? This is for you to write a composition on the proposition of a day in the Children's Palace. What is the Children's Palace? Aren't you ten years old? You can't even write a first grade composition. I don't study hard at first sight. Jiang Zhiji, what are you doing Don't you all 40 years old Why can't you even sit on a stool? At first glance, my eyes did not grow well. Why are you alone in your family? Where are your adults? My father passed away My mother works in the field. Only Xiao Zhao teacher to take care of, I slowly cherish your Xiao Juan, we have to go Don't worry, we will help you Great, not necessarily Hurry up and perform a talent show, that day is wasted on you. Let me take a video and send a circle of friends. I will not show talent Even if you don't study well, you won't be able to perform your talents. I don't want to work hard at an early age, I just want to get donations for nothing. You don't get a donation for nothing. Why doesn't he try He tried so hard that he didn't even wash his hands. His hand is the proof of living hard Come sit down, sister help you wash your hands outline How can this not be washed off Peel walnuts and sell them every day, and your hands turn black. I can't wash it off After a leaf twists and turns We want to donate is a hard-working people He can't even write a composition for a children's palace. How could he have met the Children's Palace? He just go to school has been very hard How long will it take to get to school? The school is 20 miles from my home We walked for an hour It will be here in an hour. Xiao Juan, good job School was so hard, you didn't give up Only by studying hard can we get out of the mountains earlier. What makes you say they don't deserve help? His mother was uprooted and worked hard. She has to get up at three o'clock every day to go to school His teacher holds to his post with a meager salary. Can't you see these efforts and struggles? Han Shu has been firmly standing with women Encourage them to fight injustice They live hard, which is what they deserve. Don't blame me for speaking straight Who let them be born in this mountain Don't say that about the child, I'll say it's his bad life. I don't want to donate Stop arguing You think your life is good, don't you? From now on, you're fired Who do you think you are Here to spout words Hey! You offended the big man You will be banned by the whole industry. To be poor is your life You like to work hard so much, then you should work hard from scratch. I will be responsible for the function mountain student aid project to the end. Standing with thousands of teachers Zhao Let the girls see the bigger world. Wandering can take me The fate of man is not immutable Now that you're at a low ebb Every step after that has gone uphill place