Hey everyone! Jason here, digital marketing consultant. And in this ultimate sales funnel software at ClickFunnels, Kartra, Kajabi Builderall, cart flows, Sam cart, and thrive cart. So links in the description to a timestamp videos that actually take a deeper dive into we're not going to worry about WordPress using the software to build sales funnels. So if you're trying to figure out what the for you. We're actually going to be focused on building So as we look at the pros and cons, I'm going going to have a landing page, that you can page or a video sales letter, or have an upsell-downsell So with that, let's go ahead and let's, not The first one on the chopping block is going Now, when it comes to what makes ClickFunnels is, it is very good at holding your hand through And it has a lot of pre done funnel formulas this type of funnel" and it will automatically not have emails, but we'll get into that in So the strengths of ClickFunnels is the simple library, which might actually be a con for who's built a lot of sales funnels, you actually It's really just a feature that sucks in new You don't actually need a bunch of templates, probably isn't for you. Also for strengths is split testing. Something that's really cool with ClickFunnels literally every single page in your funnel. And when it comes to upsells, I think click here, especially because you can have a hundred pages. So it's very, very easy to do almost anything sells. Now when it comes to the, the weaknesses of page load speed. And this is actually the only reason that clients. And that is simply the ClickFunnels pages And I don't mean just the backend in terms I'm talking about the front end, when someone with a not great connection can wait anywhere pages to load. That's a really big deal for some people. The other weakness here is the funnels are So what this means is the founder of ClickFunnels, of dollars on advertising and figured out of funnels don't work. And so his is a reflection of his tests and So if you don't agree with how you, he thinks definitely isn't you, because you're going weakness. If you try and change things, if you follow just designed to do, which is literally just their name and email, they see a sales message. You send them a couple of emails to get them and sell down sell sequence, and then you If that's all you need to do, click funnels Most of the bugs we'll run into is when they're outside the basic straight line linear funnel. Now the last weakness of ClickFunnels actually I've actually seen, I personally had this and that is while they do have membership between people buying and actually getting they're not supposed to have access to yet So if membership sites are going to be a large to have multiple levels and you're going to to just having one standalone product for might not be for you when it comes to the Of course, personally, I recommend using WordPress we're looking at it from doing everything So ClickFunnels compared to something like when it comes to the membership side of things. And I forgot in the strengths column, they really good. So if you're brand new and you're trying to they actually do, do screen shares back to is actually working properly. Now, what is ClickFunnels missing? So those are the strengths and weaknesses And we're not going to talk about webinars Is the fact that you're not going to get the program with the $97 a month plan, you'd have not going to compare that for a second here. And then also you're going to have to pay of Kartra, which we'll get to later in this require you to have your videos hosted someplace Now let's get into the pricing of ClickFunnels. For some strange reason and you've probably a lot of other articles and videos only talk And I actually personally don't recommend So as we go through the rest of this review a month, not the extra $200 that you're going an affiliate program. I definitely don't recommend purchasing that Now, when it comes to pricing, it's actually It's just a hundred dollars a month. And then if you buy an annual plan, it's going just going to be 997. So this chart shows you what you would cost, Your number two is assuming that you're going Because if you're just getting started with in advance. That doesn't make any sense. You're going to pay month to month the first want because you're pretty much just getting So you want to pay just per month and 20,000 is a pretty nice restriction. And as you see, you'll see in a moment with actually very generous considering the price Now, number two on our list is like nails And that is Builderall. We're going to go through this one very quickly. We're just going to list off pros, cons, and bother looking at this even though it's so, So in the strengths column we have, it's cheap. It's hard to be $30 a month for all the features And that's really its unique selling proposition. You get all this cool stuff for an insanely Now the other strengths is it has a ton of select sequences that are already set up for It has email marketing, chat box, membership on your websites. It even as an application builder and webinars, and it's quite buggy. And it's a network marketing company disguised So essentially even on their own site, builder very, very heavily invested in their affiliate So a lot of people who talk about using builderall, So if you watch any review videos and someone builderall, they're just talking about selling So they've put together a piece of software So you can sell the piece of software. That's pretty much the definition of a network And I don't know of any serious marketer or outside of promoting builderall. So it's like you buy a software so you can other people, to buy the software and promote That sounds like a pyramid, but it's technically It is just a glorified MLM. Now this next one on our list. Number three is Kartra and this is a relatively solution. Its unique selling proposition is the fact get all of your pages set up in a pre-done It also has pre done email sequences that And because it's a fully integrated platform all these other solutions, what that means that happens throughout your funnel. So the real unique selling proposition of including almost every single feature that And by the way, it's much better quality than Even the builderall tries to say they have track every single thing that goes on with the cart, someone watches a specific amount Then you're easily going to be able to set upon people's behavior, which is really powerful you don't have a ton of traffic, then these of sense, because you're not going to reach that's my personal opinion. So let's go through the rest of the strengths You get a drag and drop page builder, split You do have upsells and down sells. And as we already mentioned, you do get video And for the weaknesses, it is a relatively It's only been around just under three years And so there's going to be probably a little with something that's been around for a while, Now a builderall is definitely, always going stability of whatever code you're looking The other little thing that I don't know if of Kartra wound up selling up, selling up, in a competitor. So I don't really know what to make of that done a lot of software together in the past. They were actually the people behind EverWebinar but now they seem to have split off. So I don't know if that's because of personal So take that with a grain of salt. The other big downside here is, it is a Jack And so when you have a piece of software that ultimately going to wind up, not having the that stands on its own. But in terms of just price in terms of everything but we'll get into price here in a little I'm going to leave price as a weakness though, And right before we dive into pricing, there You can pretty much do everything you need Now there are two pricing models here we have So starter something that's really important which is actually incredibly, incredibly low, not $79 a month. This is again, is with the actual price you're elsewhere is if you pay a year up front. And then if you're going to have more than paying something like $200 a month or $150 So again, in this pricing chart, the first year, presumably you liked the software. So you're okay with paying one year in advance. They also have a two year in advance option. Although I pretty much never recommend doing literally years. And you know, for sure that you'd never want And looking at this pricing table, I'd say on the number of contacts you can have. I think the limit on the hundred dollars a Now the next one on our list, number four It's been around the longest. So it has the best reputation in terms of And so its unique selling proposition is being creators, there are a lot of big, big people just because it's so simple and easy to use So let's rapid-fire go through some of the Again, it has a page builder. You can actually build your website using Although I wouldn't recommend putting your of course you have split testing. Some upsells and down sells something that I'd say are a step above everything else on And the membership sites allow you to have So if you're doing any sort of corporate or to take quizzes or potentially give people you could get to the features of teachable, specifically for membership websites, which You also have surveys. So if you want people to fill out a survey and then you want to segment those people be the solution for you. ClickFunnels does have the ability to take you can segment people based upon their responses. But hopefully ClickFunnels actually updates ClickFunnel surveys almost comparable to what And the last big feature of Kajabi is something And this is something that Kartra pulled straight So just as we talked about with Kartra, you all of your pages set up and your email sequences And I forgot to mention with Kartra and Kajabi, write emails and landing pages for you. So all you have to do is follow their copywriting whatever's most relevant to your audience. So I don't necessarily see that as a great that should always be personalized to you But if you're trying to get something done or desire to hire a professional copywriter feature is going to be really nice. Now, when it comes to weaknesses of Kajabi, pages, specifically customizing the checkout You're going to have a lot more control over you can do on your checkout page, when you're Kajabi. And for missing features, they don't have natively with their platform. So if affiliates are going to be a big part looking at the other two solutions. Now for pricing. Kajabi is definitely the most expensive on give you three products and three pipelines, on your email list because they include email If you're going to pay $200 a month, you get then 25,000 subscribers and 10,000 customers. Again, year one is paying month to month, Now, if you're sick of seeing all of these one might be for you. That is Get Response. So when you get to the pricing table and you're dollars a year", get response might actually So get response is actually going to be the So it's one of the oldest companies on this creating their sales funnel side of things. So the great unique selling proposition of of use. So when it comes to what you can do, the strengths, It allows you for split testing and email on this list because get response actually and then they moved into landing pages. And then a few years later now they moved So something that I like is you pretty much of GetResponse because that was their core That's where they started. And then they added on the page building and of these other solutions that are reversed, and then the email marketing is just kind It's a bonus feature. So now we can charge more. So when it comes to the weaknesses of get to have upsells with your checkout, it's with PayPal or Stripe and you get paid and set up their memberships. Whereas the other ones, because they're fully going to be created. The other downside in addition to no upsells going to be able to run an affiliate program They do have a live webinar function by the And that's just a bonus feature. I don't really want to talk about webinars problem. So when it comes to pricing, get response limits depend upon how many subscribers you So I just started at 2,500 subscribers, $25 pages and emails. So more likely you're going to be looking put together those sales pages, shopping carts, is definitely on the lower end of all of the Now, the last three, we're going to rapid full fledged funnel building solutions, but process that a lot of other just basic page of. And this is your checkout sequence, your shopping So we have three to look at right here. We have CartFlows, which is for WordPress. We have SamCart, which is a standalone solution. And then we have ThriveCart, which is also Now CartFlows is $300 a year, SamCart cart, And then ThriveCart is going to be $600 one it $300 a year. I'll get to why on that in a second. So first up we have CartFlows. Now CartFlows is something that's going to pages, integrate with pretty much anything your upsell sequence, and it can integrate be in order to send emails based upon shopping they did or did not purchase. Now, when it comes to looking for a solution where SamCart and ThriveCart come in. I think SamCart out of the two is significantly lot more for it. But with SamCart, I should add. And as an extras, you're going to have to If you want to run your affiliate program But with the basic version of SamCart, which much 1200 bucks a year, you're going to be And you're going to have a little, a lot of checkout pages, and even use something called Brian Moran. Who's the, one of the co-founders of SamCart it allows you to put your sales video or create So if you already collecting emails from your a quick shopping cart that has upsells and membership site you're using, then SamCart put all your sales messages inside of SamCart, the little list, something that you can't There we go, which is Thrivecart. So Thrivecart is very attractive because it's As of the recording of this video, it might So if it doesn't ever change them, this $300 completely useless. But the reason I put it at $300 a year is when they're not charging you a monthly fee where they're going to sell as many copies And either they're going to offer you an upgrade, or they're just going to the worst option, So the assumption is even though that one it as a, comparison of paying two years in So essentially assume that you're going to you're going to have to pay for an upgrade going to support it. The disadvantage with Thrivecart is it's extremely What you can you do with the upsell and down You pretty much have four templates to choose But you are able to embed it onto a WordPress on your other sales pages or WordPress site. Now, if you're still with me going to hit all of these, the strengths, weaknesses, and So now let's wrap up with a massive price which one of these actually makes sense to Now right off the bat, let's talk about the runner here. So the most expensive, obviously in red here a month that just dwarfs everything else on I think it's just way too much, money. However, when you compare the $97 a month the best deal on this list. But, if you're looking for a simple solution, a sales page, and a simple cart where you actually going to be the winner here at just Now, if you really need a membership software sells, then going to be looking at the other So for the other three, it's pretty much a Kajabi. Now when we're going to, let's go through When you compare Kartra to Kajabi at first, at the limitations and how quickly you're plan of Kartra as soon as you reach 2,500 your funnels there. And all of a sudden it's actually more expensive And if you compare to what you're going to all of a sudden the price difference is less So if you are brand new, have a zero list, your first 2,500 subscribers. But if you have any experience whatsoever email list, you know how to get people on up being very, very expensive, very, very So between Kartra and Kajabi, just in terms the paying of that pricing, Kajabi actually So then we're left with just comparing Kajabi to whether or not you want a solution that sites are going to be a huge part of what If you just need a solution, that's going you already have an email marketing software the typical advice of putting a membership own it. Then ClickFunnels would be the winner. If you're literally looking for something in all your eggs in one basket, then I think get more expensive as your email list grows, showdown. So again, if you want everything all in Kajabi It is more expensive on the surface, but when do inside the software, all of a sudden it But if you are going to have your membership emails, then ClickFunnels is the winner. So Kajabi comes in the top spots, if you need but it would take the top spot, if you don't website. So I sincerely hope you got some value out I know it was super long, but just wanted weaknesses of all of these and just definitively get you the most bang for your buck. And of course, if you want to learn more about check out some of the links in the description all of the solutions here. But those solutions are definitely going to anything together on WordPress, even though So thank you so much for watching. I sincerely hope you got some value out of If you're still confused, somehow comment if you have any counterpoints to what was below, please, because your experience is decision about which solution is best, unless making a comment. So go in and hit that like button subscribe like this one. And until the next keep building the business