Raw milk is the latest social media fad. hyping raw milk as a more natural option and behind these ideas or is it just influencers doing about raw milk on the internet and I put them scientific evidence. The main concern with raw cause food poisoning. This heating milk before it's sold and consumed. This process is called pasteurization, after the designed to neutralize human pathogens in milk. been hugely successful. Milk used to account and after pasteurization became widespread it common than it used to be, raw milk is still a more hospitalizations than any other foodborne that in the US, consuming raw milk is 150 times pasteurized milk. And worryingly, these outbreaks years of age so children and young adults who may is raw milk contaminated? In europe and the US and 12% were found to be contaminated for each this is just data for four types of bacteria so a third of raw milk samples were contaminated with look perfectly healthy. And symptoms of food are nausea, vomiting and poisoning can be quite mild, even asymptomatic severe complications like septicemia, meningitis running the risk? What's the put forward by raw milk advocates and the nutritious value of milk. pasteurization can affect some nutrients in milk, surprised to find out that in the US the most 72 degrees centigrade for 15 I actually didn't realize this, i thought Now, in some other countries they use what's which is heating the milk to 138 centigrade for especially the pasteurization protocol, doesn't do the protein in milk, about is heat resistant. Another 18% or so is whey, primary effect is not destruction of the protein, natural conformation of the protein, so it can hormone or if it's an enzyme it could stop having much irrelevant because proteins are going to in our gut anyway during digestion, and actually amino acids we don't absorb entire proteins folded suggest that heat might improve the digestibility total protein content of raw milk compared difference. Fat content, similar, comparing no significant difference. What does affect fat not but that's separate from heating. As for heat resistant so that's not a problem. Same indistinguishable levels of calcium. When it Some vitamins like biotin and niacin are not like vitamin C for example, pasteurization does fairly small, around 10% give or take reduction in low in milk to begin with, milk is not really example, milk is a significant source of vitamin in the order of 1-3%. So it doesn't make the scientific evidence have concluded that the nutritional quality of milk. There are other the vitamin content of milk like for example the it's stored for and at what temperature, those not so much. Another idea out there is that it's better for bone metabolism. There's no calcium content of milk isn't really significantly an important role in bone metabolism is actually and it's much higher in milk bought in stores it's added later on. Another claim out there, people who have lactose intolerance. So lactose down in our body by an enzyme called lactase. And be digested which causes bloating, gas and pain. heating milk makes no difference for the amount our ability to produce lactase. Now one idea out produce lactase and that's what presumably would This happens with some forms of dairy like yogurt produce lactase so this is why people with dairy like yogurt much better than they do milk. the production process, they're not present in doesn't work. In fact scientists have tested this were split randomly and given either raw milk similar intensity, it made no difference. Which is participants in these trials were blinded, which know which type of milk they were getting, milk for each test. This is important because it if we're convinced that a food or a supplement is psychologically downplay symptoms just by power of has been shown many times in science, it's very that a structured scientific trial can give us cannot. If you have lactose intolerance, there are There are lactose-free milks, there are lactase we've touched on that, and there are plant is not really one of those strategies. Another contains probiotic bacteria that provide benefit those benefits. But like we said, bacteria bacteria that are usually linked to benefits, are nowhere near what would be necessary to provide when the levels of Bifidobacteria and these indicator of fecal contamination of milk. So those the feces can sometimes contaminate the udder consume a product. Another idea out there is that can help prevent, maybe even cure, some allergies. got a little more interesting. There are several to farm milk or raw milk, so early in life, first allergies later on. They have not established that of these observations and they've tried to tease I think it's a possibility. There are several raw milk could cause this effect so this is usually pertain to early exposure, first year of and you're drinking raw milk because influencers that is not what these data are about. As for a child, to a baby, and risking food poisoning be causal, effect. I'm not here to tell you what but I'm just being very clear that I don't actually any of these more vulnerable groups, the sick hospitalized people. I wouldn't even do you do you but I'm especially emphasizing these research on this including randomized trials is cause and effect. If exposure to raw milk or developing allergies and number two, if so what is something that could potentially be harnessed allergies without exposing ourselves for people who already have allergies to cow pasteurized milk elicit allergic symptoms. There that the amount of raw milk necessary to elicit vary but if you're allergic to cow milk it's something else. Some people like soy milk, other from foods. It's also worth bearing in mind that the milk much closer in time to the extraction, to milk at a store or getting it in the mail, after made by influencers and wellness gurus in general are molecules that might play a role in immunity, have really nerdy names like lactoferrin, it's a nerd fest. So these are some examples of systems are not destroyed by pasteurization, activity, some retain about 70%, some retain all line is they can't prevent as we saw, because samples of raw milk it's not that rare. In fact, immunoglobulins are higher in milk that's often an of the udder of the cow and these molecules are bacteria and they end up in the milk. So i think antimicrobial systems, which can't prevent pasteurization which accomplishes exactly that fad is a typical example of what we call a anything that's more natural should be better, sometimes get it right and sometimes get it very really critical thinking, they're basically literature concluded, raw milk is not inherently risk. Media claims were shown has an excellent food safety record. cow or plant milks, just personal to consume some cow milk it would definitely be seen, but now you have the information in your So if influencers are milking you for clicks, or whatever, remember, just ask for the evidence common questions about food and health. Here's other benefits to it? Or click this one your blood pressure. Check them out,