(solemn music) - But today is a kind of where we're gonna be thinking about the origins of the nation in I'm gonna toss you some but also feel free to raise because that can help me when I understand that something's really not coming across or something is unclear. So just feel free to interrupt and ask a question anytime you want. So this lecture is called and it's about a question, which has kind of been a from the beginning of philosophy, which is how do you get At some point there and at some point there How does that happen? How do you get social forms that didn't exist before? It's a really interesting question. And you can ask it with other There didn't used to be classes, but now we don't have any difficult-- I don't mean the classes that you're in. I mean, social classes, Those didn't use to exist either, but now we don't have oh, he's middle class. Actually we're in America, Thinking that everyone's middle class is part of the class struggle, So if you all think you're middle class, that means you're already in, okay. Sorry that wasn't our We're gonna move back to nations. Although the Marxists are gonna get a little shout out later on because actually Marxists to think about the nation. But when we're thinking of the nation, what makes is that the nation, once it So the nation didn't always exist but once it comes into existence, it tells a story about the past and the story that the nation That's the short version. It tells a story which clears out the past and that story calls itself history. Although it's not really And so this new social form has a story about how it's very old and that basically everyone Unless you're American. If you're American, is that you're new and you're fresh and you're all about the future, which is ironic because is actually comparatively It's funny, right? It's actually older than but don't tell the Europeans 'cause that would mess everybody up. So the trick though is but it lays claim to the past in a way which if we ourselves and many of us probably are, And that makes it very hard of where the nation came from because the nation is The nation comes equipped with an answer. It comes equipped in the most banal and obvious practical sense, which you've already encountered which is that as you're educated, as you go through elementary school, middle school, high school, if you're in anything like a you're given answers to these questions, which seem self-evident as But of course, there's a which is that once there's once there's a national identity, then the educational system and then reproduces that national in a way which then starts and commonsensical. So there's a circular quality about this, which is very hard to break out of when you're seven years old. I mean, I'm sure all of you and each one of you is smarter I'm aware of this, you're Yale students, but when you were seven, you pro-- Okay, six. When you were six, you probably and talking about the constructed Right? You probably weren't. You were probably, I don't know. Correct me, but I imagine that what they told you about you were probably either ignoring it or somehow taking it in Thank you for those nods. So the obvious way that this happens is the institutional way. The nation takes over the state, the state takes over the education, the education takes over the kids and then the kids believe the things which are commonsensical and and I say this as a historian who gets trapped in cocktail with people who know what 99 times out of a hundred, 99 times out of a hundred, you're basically trapped when you were seven. The less obvious way that the has to do not with the institutions, but with the form of the story. And I'm gonna tell you a and try to make them or less obvious, less I called this maybe a I called this lecture because now I'm gonna talk about Genesis. A great story about the nation is that there once was innocence That is a big story about the nation, especially nations that Especially nations like the Russian. I'm not gonna talk about but it's certainly true of America too. There's an American imperial story about how things were at some point, the 1920s, 1930s, 1940s, 1950s. At some point, things were fine. At some point, things were good. And then somehow the immigrants and now things aren't so good. That's a story of innocence. If you're about making like a cycle. You go back to a cycle or the founders are another So some people think that is a kind of moment of innocence. The founders got it basically right. That's a very attractive idea. The founders thought of everything, they're kind of demigods. They walk the earth, leaving and the footprints were and residue of righteousness. And that's all you have to know. That's a very attractive view. Somebody got everything right Most of the Supreme Court now pretends to believe this at this point. By the way, you know what the I realize this is not our subject at all so you don't have to take notes. But there's a school of about the American Constitution, which says that you have only in terms of what it actually says. But you know what the It doesn't say that you have the way that the That is to say the originalist position is self-contradictory is not actually in the Okay. I've blown your minds, right? All right. But I'm only saying this by way of this general imperial nation problem of wanting to go back to a moment where somehow we got everything right. In Russia today, this is very evident in the thought of a who for several years Putin read and who takes a view like The world itself is flawed, but of restoring the innocence of the world. I mean, it's kind of ironic, but very often it's the imperial nations, the post-imperial nations They're focused on a time Nations that are peripheral or are anti-colonial, anti-imperial very often have a different which I wanna try to make seem both familiar and And that's a three part story. So the story of lost the story of Adam and There's also a longer the Old Testament about a but then that mistakes were made or bad people came and But at some point they're And when they get their state back, everything's gonna be fine. That's a structural story People have different views about how it's gonna be right again. The Christians say Jesus came Zionists might say we made You can be in disagreement but there's still the of everything was once good, Probably not our fault, but we lost it. But then there will be So the nation takes over You've probably heard phrases like national renaissance, a rebirth. The whole idea of rebirth is if you think about in some kind of literal It's very weird. If you just think for what it would be like to be reborn, wouldn't that be strange, right? Okay, this may be a little too Freudian, you just left home, I know. But a rebirth is a strange idea if you think about it at all. So the idea of a national rebirth is that you're going back to that time when everything was right. You're going back to that golden age. Usually the nation says we're where things have gone wrong, but everything used to be right. And if you're an anti-colonial the story usually has The people were right and good. They're still somehow and we're gonna restore by giving them a state and There's been a middle period, which involves a diaspora or an empire or something messing things up. But in the future, So notice the three part story. The three part story is very Classical examples are the Greek national story. And I mentioned in the last are actually the oldest of the territory of Ukraine. But basically, every national story has cottoned onto this, So I'm gonna say the obvious thing now. It's not that this is true. It's not that there It's not that there was an ethnicity which existed a thousand years I hope I'm not shattering but that never actually happens. I know I'm breaking something to you now, but somebody has to at some point. Relationships are a lot more Fatherhood and motherhood and sex. It's a lot more complicated from a thousand years to now. Okay. I'm glad we had this moment. I feel like this awkwardness Okay, good. So I'm not gonna surprise you when I say that that's not There isn't really a three part. There isn't really a golden That doesn't really happen. But the story is reflecting something. It's reflecting a change It's a way of handling a And that change is the entrance So the nation and the way is a modern form of politics, which involves, if not everybody, it's meant to involve the masses. It's not feudalism. It's not the nobility It's not monarchy, it's not it's not rule by the few. The nation means rule by the many. Doesn't necessarily mean democracy, but the nation means a form of politics in which the subject of politics is supposed to be the people. That's an idea which seems I mean, even the people who are against it say that they're for it Basically everybody in the world, as they do away with democracy, the only way to have democracy is to suppress all of these votes. Only if I count the votes But very rarely people say, It's commonsensical. But The idea that the people is only a couple hundred years old. So these stories are a way They're a way of handling change. So now I'm moving from what to how they actually work. The reason that they actually work is that in the 19th century, there comes a time when you have to handle a form of politics in which large numbers of people now matter. And so you need some version of the past which accounts for that. And the version of the is the one that says way back when, the people were in charge and now the people are Or way back when, the people were virtuous and now they're gonna be virtuous again once we do away with the or one of the things which was in the way of this pattern from happening. So the story is a way of making sense of a challenge, And the challenge is what do you do as the people enter politics? That's a challenge which was Like the Marxists who we're met the challenge in a certain way. So the people are entering politics, there is some kind of transformation. And I want you to mark this. We'll get to this part of the but think about what is changing. Is it that there's now and so people are encountering Is it that there's now a functional state, which is able to collect taxes and make people perform military service. These are some of the with modernization. But something is changing so that it no longer seems normal to say that the king is just in charge or the nobility is just in charge. Something is changing so that that no longer seems plausible. There's still kings and queens, but they basically serve as for welfare states. They're not what they used to be. Fascinating as they are, the that's not what royalty used to be like. It was a little like that, but that was never the essence of it. So at a certain point, it that a few people should be in charge and how do you handle that? Well, you handle that with a story. So you have modern politics and modern politics has to have a story about how the people are why the people should come into politics. And this story is Okay, here comes question time. What's another story? What kind of story would What's a story that - [Student] So a king is chosen by some religious, like God, right? Now I'm the king and I control society. - Yeah, okay. So divine right. Or you're the king, You're the king because I mean, that seems ridiculous, right? Just because his father was Doesn't that seem insane? Was your father king? - Okay good. 'Cause I get in trouble if I get into revealing So if anybody's father is king, I need to know now or in an It could be. All right. So that notion, so his father it's absurd, doesn't it seem? But in other historical circumstances, it could have made perfect sense. It obviously did make perfect sense, but not in modern historical circumstances it somehow seems not to make The story of genealogy, the story that his family is Perhaps they're half What's another kind of story Yeah. - [Student] Something related, but just like landowning - Good. Excellent. Excellent. That's a very But it can be related is inherited. I mean, that's something which And it's commonsensical. If Zhenya has a bunch of land. If I have a million acres, why shouldn't my children It still seems commonsensical. But the idea that there's a property class and the right to own property So you people over here have and the rest of you have the right to work on their property. That seemed plausible but at a certain point around again, around the 19th century, it But that story that but that a group is maybe Maybe the nobility thinks from other people, it often did, right? Or the nobility has earned the nobility fought the wars or something, but they're different, and they have the right to own land. So those are different by the national story or And they represent different For example, let's imagine or let's imagine a system like the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, where the noble class gets to vote and the noble class gets to own land, but other people don't. And at a certain point, that So we have a story that brings the people to the center of politics, but doesn't say that directly, right? It seems to make all It's a story that brings And this is where I have because it might have occurred I'm not gonna check you on this. And I don't know how many of you know very much about Marxism or how much that comes When I ask this in graduate classes, there's the guy who raises his yeah, I grew up in the and we studied Marxism. So you might have noticed that Marxism also has a three part story. Marxism also has a and about transformation and about the people coming In the Marxist story, it used to be that none and that was fine. And then technology came along and technology created And along with them came private property. Private property alienated But one day we will get and we will all seize it together and that will be good again. Okay, I'm simplifying this a lot. But there's also a three part Marxism and the modern idea of the nation actually emerge at about the same time, around the middle of the 19th century. And they're very much in And they're actually very similar, one difference being is about the class. It's about a non-national Whereas the national story It's about particularities. Or to put it in a different Don't hide your phone The national... Don't use electronics at all. The national story is But in fact, everybody's The Marxist story is supposed but in fact, the Marxists getting the various nations to line up. So the two stories are our Does anyone know what the What the Marxists especially at the beginning? Or wanna take a guess? Or not. Yeah? it was gonna be a transitional state? - Good, true. They associated the nation with capital-- either with feudalism or with capitalism, but not with socialism. So we're gonna get over it. Yeah. Jack? - [Student] Political So transition to this socialism movement. - That's in the Soviet Union. Yeah. So the Soviet Union is an attempt to go through all the stages very quickly. And so in the Soviet Union, we're gonna do the capitalist And with that, will come And then in the 1930s we'll where maybe we'll get through the nation very quickly that way. So the basic idea that the Marxists have is that the nation is associated with a period of history that's passing. And this is where they have trouble. But if there's capitalism and there's more nationalism, that's a kind of misunderstanding. So Marx and Engels had with actual workers because actual workers were very often in favor of They had a tremendous who were influenced by who had turned out, were as nationally oriented than the middle classes or the nobility. So nationalism has a Marxism has a tremendous And as a result of this, some of the first people who in an interesting way, were Marxists who were trying Around the year 1900, there were several Marxists look, modernization isn't doing away with the national modernization is bringing about the nation and we have to deal with that. The nation isn't actually it's part of the modern, And so this was a Pole, And then he was in dialogue with several people They made the argument, that if you have capitalism from their local traditions and forces them into a kind where the lowest common denominator And so on the basis of their language and feeling alienated they might seem to think, or they'd be vulnerable to politicians who made that argument. They also said the modernizing state, the modernizing state is This is what the modernizing state does. It educates people. It At the end of the 19th in European countries, you to very, very high rates But literacy can also mean not identifying with an imperial center, but identifying with a nation because you're reading or you learn to read in one language, then you learn to read And so these guys made this argument, which was then repeated in the 1980s by a number of national theorists or these kinds of arguments by some important interesting called Ernest Gellner Who also said that the but it's a result of certain So that's the short course on the theories of where nations come about. What I'm trying to say about the theory of goes back almost as far So the position that nations People have been saying that National theorists will generally say oh, everyone who talks about They're unaware of the fact that it's politically constructed. No, no, no. There's been awareness that it might be politically constructed for almost as long as there's This discussion that we're for almost as long as Oh, by the way, this Kelles-Krauz guy. I mention him partly because he gives two interesting that the nation is all about modernity and not about tradition. And his examples are the So at the time when he was writing, which was the early years he died in 1905. So the very early years the idea that Jews were a nation was generally seen as absurd because they lacked what as the objective attributes of a nation. For example, territory. And so Jews can't be a nation. Ukrainians were thought not to be a nation because they lacked another which was a historical political class. So if your theory of the nation is that there is certain durable stuff, like land or like a political class, and that those make up the nation, then you look at the and you'd say, no, they're not nations. The Hungarians maybe, the Poles maybe, the Germans certainly, but not What Kelles-Krauz said is think Bracket what you think about the past, look at the way modernization and it turns out it whether or not there are these &quot;objective attributes&quot; or not. All that matters is that modernization is gonna generate the the urbanization, which to these new forms of solidarity. And so when he said that were gonna be modern nations that was a very radical argument, but it was consistent with which says that the nation So that ends the part about I want to close by talking about how some of our Ukrainians So we've talked about we've talked about theories of the nation. Now we're gonna talk about some of how the Ukrainians And it's important to be clear that this whole thing is a The people who made nations They knew what they were doing. The way they talked about it than how we would talk about it, but no one slept-walked into nationhood. That didn't happen that way. There were larger processes We can keep talking about this. I think the modernization that larger processes in the like capitalism, like that some new form of But where, and for whom? Where and for whom? Why these nations and not other nations? So again, going back to the nations mess with the past. Once they're created, They make it very hard for It's like the periodic table's invented and then it says everybody do alchemy. They mess with the past. And one of the ways the maybe the most profound one that their own existence is self-evident. So if you're in Poland and you grow up in the many things might be uncertain, but the existence of Poland Even in the United States where there's so many So many obvious contingencies. It's very difficult to argue that the revolution of 1776 had to happen or that the Americans had to win or in 1812, they had to win. I mean, they should have lost in 1812. We, sorry, should have lost in 1812. You know, the Louisiana Purchase. All this stuff, it obviously or the border with I don't mean that in an aggressive way, if there are any Canadians out there. It's cool. It's cool. It's fine with me. But even if you come to the existence of America isn't gonna be called The first class, the teacher's America didn't have to be. Maybe it shouldn't have been. What if the British Empire Maybe that would've been better.&quot; I'm gonna guess that didn't happen in any of your classes, right? All right. So we'll find out But the basic idea is the nation But it isn't, right? It isn't. So when we study Ukraine, we're gonna be studying the But what I don't want to think is, wow, Ukraine is really and all the other nations are real. That's a lesson that I I want you to think 'hah, this is interesting' how the Ukrainian nation is maybe a little more or maybe it's been which reveal the political to our eyes a little more clearly than with the French or But I don't want you to think, oh yeah, the Ukrainians are kind of funky, but everyone else has I don't want you to think that. I want you to think, oh, as we've studied the Ukrainian nation, we're gonna see patterns to understand the Poles or even the Americans and the So how did the Ukrainians In the 19th century, the main move in the Russian this is all gonna become clear when the Russian Empire starts For now I just need you to most people who spoke were in the Russian Empire. And in the Russian Empire the second half, there was this which was called populism. So not populism in the populism now means, I don't but it means something like if you... Okay, I'm not gonna go down that road. When people say populism, that's not liberalism that we don't like. But populism in this sense and trying to figure It was an urban movement associated with the science ethnography that we now call anthropology. Very influential in literature. Dostoevsky starts out being this way and then goes to prison and changes his mind which is an interesting story. So going to the people and so one source of the is this empirical contact with the people in the Russian Empire where you realize, huh, their folklore and their songs and their language are different. They're different. They just are different than the people who we now call the Russians. And so you go to the people and you discover that the society, if you take it on its own terms, is just a little bit different and you start thinking about that. That populism leads to something which we now call social history, where you locate the nation. That's the Ukrainian where you locate the nation in in its customs, in its songs, in its stories, in its language. So in the 19th century, And so you then say, okay, the or it's been there for a really long time, but it's not politically That's the problem. So you're replacing the kinds of legitimating political with a different political So it's not the czar who should control politics, because they've been here for a long time and look how numerous they are. And if you look at their customs, you can see that they're in fact a unity. That's populism, that's social history, that's going to the people. And of course Mykhailo Hrushevs'kyi wrote the very, very long There's a stage in the 19th century where you have to write in order to esta-- I don't mean to make it sound like a joke, 'cause it's not easy, but you to document the continuity of the people where social history is in the foreground and the political history and that's a radical reversal. Until then, generally with just the politics and the people didn't have Now, the weakness of this is that it will tend to move you towards an ethnic understanding Because where you're is in its customs and Well, what if there are other people, I've already mentioned there are probably others in But what if there are other people who don't speak the same language or who have markedly different customs? What do you do with them? That's the problem of ethnicity. That if you define the then that always is going of what about the other people? And then here comes the interesting part. It's not that nobody The people who came up with the this is a little logical point here, but ethnicity didn't exist, So the people who came up with the ethnic notion of the nation were not ethnic themselves. They couldn't have been because the idea was just And even if you don't buy there was a thing called they were very often what we would think of So Hrushevs'kyi, as the Ukrainian historians had a Polish mom and that is very typical. Very typical. If you look at the people the social history, and sometimes later all across Eastern Europe, it is very often people who or a German minority, who themselves adopt the ethnic position or create the ethnic position. I say that not because but I say that to alert you to which is supposed to be the is not, right? The very notion of the eternity is created by people who are very often changing themselves in some way. Not that they dropped that came from the Being multicultural and multilingual certainly helps you as a But they're keeping that and they're saying history is really about the people who are in this one language. So that leads us to a debate. That's a position, that's a debate. And on the other side of Okay, I really should have made Is a character called And Lypyn'skyi says basically, hey, Hrushevs'kyi, look at Ukraine. The cities are full of Russian speakers, lots of Jews, lots of Polish nobles. How are you gonna make You're not just gonna be able to say the Ukrainian people, the You need this very commonsensical point. We need the cities and and those traditional historical, going back to these traditional stories, the people who are from what are we gonna do with them? Are we just gonna eliminate them? Or maybe we should give So Lypyn'skyi answers the people are coming into politics, but if we're going to have a nation, the nation itself is going to have to be politically savvy enough to say, okay, there's a place for the Polish nobility. Maybe they don't get to but they get something. There has to be a place for the Jews. There has to be a place for the people who used to own the land. We can't just imagine them away. It's beautiful to say that is in the countryside and the and look at the sunset and You've seen the art that Look at that beautiful image. There's a beautiful woman and and look, they've have a scythe and that's the nation, right? It's beautiful, it's very persuasive. But what are you gonna do about the people who live in the cities? What do you do about all the other people and you can't have a So what do you do? So Lypyn'skyi Lypyn'skyi has an answer. Lypyn'skyi in his turn, and don't worry, we're gonna do all this Lypyn'skyi in turn-- Oh, did I mention he was He was from a Polish noble family. Lypyn'skyi in turn is answered Now we're getting into the 1920s and 1930s and Dontsov is the most of Ukrainian far right wing politics. In fact, fascism. And Dontsov is very much Dontsov says no, no, it is and the people really And the people really should rebel against all these other traditions. Dontsov... I'm gonna let you guess. He had a brother who was a Bolshevik and that Bolshevik brother So it's an example of how the people who are maybe even the most radical on the ethnic side of things, they're not coming from the ethnicity. They're choosing something, at the beginning you have to choose. Because at the beginning, the nation is still coming into being, so you have to choose. So Dontsov is answering Lypyn'skyi. These guys are enemies and the Dontsov tradition of is important. It matters in Ukrainian political life. And it matters in Ukrainian diaspora, it continues in North America. But Dontsov in turn was answered by this guy that we're Now, I'm aware that his book turns out not to be in the bookstore. I put the first essay up online and we will keep putting And we're reading Ivan Rudnyts'kyi because he is a foundational and he lays out some of the major issues. But in context, Ivan Rudnyts'kyi is trying to handle this argument which says that the Ukrainian nation is only about people who speak Ukrainian. And that somewhere out there, there's a homogenous Ukrainian nation. Ivan Rudnyts'kyi is trying to handle that. What he's arguing, and as you read him, I want you to read him to learn about Ukrainian He's good at setting but he's also coming into this debate about what the nation And Ivan Rudnyts'kyi takes the position that the nation is It's fundamentally about So modernization matters, modernization matters, sure. The traditional landowning The presence of the Jews matters. This all matters, but the nation is directed towards the future. That doesn't mean it's voluntarist You can't make it up. You can only act on the and he mostly wrote about the past. But the nation itself was a political act directed towards the future, which means that in principle, Anyone can take part. So I'm now just gonna say one word about who Ivan Rudnyts'kyi was. So, oh, very important. He wins. He wins the argument, which If there's any person I mean, maybe in the 22nd but looking at it from the point of 2022, he wins the argument in North America and he also wins the argument in Ukraine. Although as we'll see, there why his arguments are But he wins the argument about And that in turn has very for what Ukraine is like, because theorizing the nation It's also about how you form the nation. So 30 seconds and I'll tell and we'll return to that. So Ivan Rudnyts'kyi was His grandmother was born Ida Spiegel in the Habsburg monarchy. She married a Ukrainian He died early, the husband, and Ida Spiegel, who was and took the name Olga, raised The common language in the family was... Anybody wanna take a shot at that? Common language? We're in the Habsburg monarchy. Not bad. We're in Galicia in the Habsburg monarchy. - Polish? Polish, Polish. Common language between-- I mean, her mother tongue was Yiddish and his mother tongue was Ukrainian. Although he had Polish grandparents, but their language between The kids' best language for So there were five kids All five of them became in Ukrainian national movement, But there was one daughter, Milena. Milena was a feminist and a in the Polish parliament. She did some extraordinary things that we'll talk about later on, but Milena Rudnyts'ka was the So his mother's mother was Everybody who's taking part regardless of their position, is coming from all over the place. But there's a conversation ends up being the most influential figure and that conversation it very much shapes the way that Ukrainians are talking I'll leave you with that and I'll see you again in a week's time, map quiz on Thursday. Thanks. (upbeat rhythmic chime)