somber country somber country [Peter] Joe, how long [Joe] Fifty years. -So 50 years ago, you purchased this land? -I purchased this land, Last good deal. [chuckles] Nobody was moving in It was the second poorest There was land for sale everywhere. Where you could just have empty houses, &quot;Hey, you mind if I live in there?&quot; That kind of situation. Not anymore. Now Yancey County's All kinds of people flocking here. -Because we're an hour north -Yeah, it's within range of Asheville. Anything within range Little towns that were The main street was all boarded-up. Now the main street is buzzing. -So how did the locals take you -By and large, they were very tolerant. It's kind of a mountain thing But it was during the Vietnam War, and there were some people As there are today I suppose. But by and large, Live and let live kind of attitude. -Right. [Joe] For many, many years, I'd say my I've always been below poverty line, -You grow all your own food -A lot of it. We've got land for it, -You're looking -Absolutely, yeah. -Just to help, like stay for a little bit -Both. Eventually somebody's gonna I'm 80 years old So I'm thinking small community situation. This is a project to create Which is various definitions for it a botanical garden and arranged ornamentally. Meaning a beautiful garden are pretty much growing by themselves and I can become sort of -Okay. -I just need to remember where they are, When I started At that time in the '60s there was all this information and a lot of interesting, just... How we got ourselves into the situation where we find ourselves being the most And a lot of the thinking was with the beginning of agriculture. A lot of people think that's when living as part of Gaia So the thinking is of course -'Cause there's too many people. -So my response to that is to up the carrying capacity of my land. I want my land to be able So how do I do that? I pack it with Why do I do that? Well, A is: figure out where they are and the obvious place is East Asia. Very similar bio-climate and so on. So if you want more plants... More diversity of plants, For instance there's no The water comes down and then it sinks into the ground. -And the biggest peak is Mount Mitchell, right? -Right up there. -So right beyond these trees? And I'm the last place [Joe] I grew up in Detroit. My family moved, My dad was a professor and he... He went to the Library of Congress So he came down to North Carolina. And so I came along with the family -Yeah. -And then after that and lived with Tribal people And suffered significant culture shock -Right. -The culture shock the culture shock was coming back and Just walking into a mall Um, I spent several years thinking and studying anthropology, and working with these people. Eventually I decided I was so impressed with their lifestyle. Here's people... You don't really do anything and fulfill all your needs Here's people that build their own houses, they're pretty much self-reliant. All the communication is by river. Little canoes along the river. They're really not going anywhere much. So that was amazing. And then they had their rituals, and just such a rich life that they had. Eventually I decided I didn't want to So like... Because they were all healthier with so little, I was back in Detroit was a little kind of hippie commune of craftspeople and they'd got a line -Okay. -They were interested is not far from here So I came down with them and like most hippie communes and then kind of imploded. Uh... -Sorry to interrupt, -Hmm. -Why do they work well -Uh... Maybe because -You know? -That would be one speculation. But that's what we need to create. That's the next frontier. Like I made this paradise garden that was too rocky and steep, Nobody'd look at it. Now phase two is to have a community This is my kind of signature herb. -Mm-hmm. -Which I think But I promote it as Gynostemma pentaphyllum, It's a vine, but it has identical compounds to ginseng, and ginseng is very much Wild ginseng out of the woods -Wow. -This stuff is practically a weed, but it has identical compounds -What does it do for your health? -What does it do for your health? Which means they're health-promoting, they're health-promoting, This whole concept of adaptagens Who wanted to win So they put a lot of research Because they don't have much ginseng, they have something -Mm-hmm. -Which is one -So do you use -That one I drink every day. One of the ways that was discovered, It was not one of that's been used for thousands of years. Chinese government started that certain parts of China had an extraordinary large number People living to be a hundred years old. Like there's way more of them So I went to investigate, and calling it immortality tea. So that's kind of when it It's huge now all over East Asia. It's coming to America, It's showing up in tea shops. -Mm-hmm. Goji berries, whoever heard of Nobody, it's a famous Chinese blood tonic. Now they're everywhere. Schisandra's another one that's coming. One by one they come to America. [Peter] If you go to your average doctor? -Mm-hmm. -They're gonna give-- -Okay. -For various reasons including historical there was a huge rivalry between who are called eclectics, and their own journals, They're the ones that brought into Western practice. But there was a huge rivalry the medical establishment. Which the medical establishment If you're a conspiracy theorist at a certain point in time Carnegie, and Rockefeller, and Ford, Harvard, and Yale, and Princeton, to the herbal people. -Do you agree with that theory? -Yeah, that happened for sure. -I mean whether you want to call it how open you are to conspiracy ideas. But it certainly happened, And so for more than 50 years having been indoctrinated They didn't really do anything, If they did anything -Okay. -And that went on for a long time, right up until about the '60s. -Okay. -When the Russian researchers invented this rat swimming test. Which is the first thing that proved So you can throw the rat in the water, and then you give it some adaptagens, And that's incontrovertible evidence. So they finally had to turn around and, &quot;Well, I guess it does something.&quot; So then they had to figure out what it did and that's kind of where Was by finding out -Just in the '60s? -So it's a very recent discovery -Yep. -This is your tool zone obviously -Tool wall, yeah. Inspired by Chinese gardens. They divided their gardens up a lot This is like an homage to Chinese gardens. It's mostly clay and straw. -And this is all your power, huh? -Yep. -So that gives you everything -Yeah, well we have -We've got two different sets of panels. -These will end up You can see they're -It's not an ideal location. Well it's gotta be tough down here have a small window of light -Yep, we don't see a lot of sky. I've never gotten too much into astronomy So here's a chunk of paradise garden. Probably at least Edible, medicinal, and so on. Those big giant yellow ones are mullien, excellent for coughs. -Okay. -Fennel, really good for digestion, Echinacea, everybody knows about. -So what are you doing, You're not consuming all of this, right? -You and your team? -Okay. -And then in the past Particularly tinctures, but we also have and many, many different things. I also taught herbal preparations called Daoist Traditions. -The goji berry, -No, no, no. It grows way up in the North Dakotas. Become weedy in certain parts of America. -So what does somebody do, Joe, You know, all of this sounds amazing. Everyone wants to be healthier. It's tough though How do you apply this You just buy supplements? -You can do that, That's how I started. Like I said, I picked up called &quot;Chinese Tonic Herbs&quot;. Read about 'em, sounded great, so I just ordered some I'm like, So then that sent me Most of 'em are not available in America. -Okay. -Looking for trading partners, and corresponding with -Okay. -It just led me... Nice thing if you're not Which I'm not. One of my goals is without feeling like Not really denying myself anything. I got a little wasabi plant. It took me like ten years I never would have had if I had a nine to five job. I never could have done -So how do you make your money -We sell seeds, -Okay. Currently a lot of my income comes from -Teaching. So I'll leave that link -Are you trying to sell more seeds or no? Used to sell a lot of tinctures, -Okay. -So we've now got We're starting to make tinctures again That was not but it was pretty steady. Any time I'd walk by there'd be -Okay. -There'd be 20 or 30 bucks in there. -Every time I walked by. Typically in the past I always had more applications -Okay. -Now for the first time I have We get a what are called woofers. -You know that term? They come for a week but what we want is people that are gonna come -Okay. -Eventually I need people that -You want them to live on your property? -Okay, well I'm sure Earn income by taking over You could make a nice income Somebody could make a nice income Someone could make website development, is this herb school. Which I was starting I got a half acre up there Last bit of national forest. The trail head for the steepest is right there on my property. -Mm-hmm. -I was gonna start an herb, slash ecology school. And that could provide enough income This is where I live, up there. -When did you build that? -About 35 years ago. I've been here 50 years Everything we're walking by has uses. Wild yam, and this lily And the apios americana is Wild lettuce has been used as -Are you still learning? -Oh, yeah. -In this world? -Oh, it's endless. -It's endless, okay. Arrowhead, a nice wild edible. It's a water plant but as I said, So I buy these kiddie pools when the stores want to clear them out. -What is this up here, Joe, this octagon? -That is a yurt. -Okay. -It's the newest building on the property, was the oldest building on the property. -Okay, way over there. So this is where the people -Yeah, I've got and I have ambitions to build more. Particularly out at the end of the road The idea is to have ten or a dozen who come for a week -So is this more of you want to pass or you feel like the world and you want it to really blossom out? -Well it's both. People need to live differently. The way we're living on earth I think we all recognize that. It's just like in terms of changing how far are you willing to go? You know, when I talk about this stuff, people's first thought is all the stuff Whereas where I want to focus All the positive stuff. You know this concept of forest bathing? Not heard of that one? Very, very big in the Far East. In Japan they got a word They can say that in one word. People are just so overworked. So people are being prescribed Where you just go out in the woods and kind of meditate, your ears, your nose, your eyes. -And just absorb this natural energy. -Well you can put a helmet on somebody And it's just a difference between somebody and somebody walking down a mountain path. And that's all very... very measurable. So the idea is to which is my word for, the state, or the economy, with money being the blood of it, back to fulfilling my needs with the planet, with Gaia. -Okay, so you built this -With friends. There were half a dozen people, The upstairs is clogged up with books. I've gotten a lot of donations. More than I have places to put them. -Daoism, you love Laozi? -Mm-hmm, Now I'm down to just one shelf. [chuckles] -Are these some of the supplements -Yeah, tinctures I've made There are a lot more of them That's a Feng shui compass. -How does a Feng shui compass work? -It is incredibly complicated. Each one of these little circles There's about 32. A very interesting concept. The Chinese are now -Mm-hmm. -It's been thought to be nonsense, and you don't build consulting a Feng shui expert about the location of it, and like, &quot;Is this a favorable spot?&quot;. Originally, it was It's thought to be very, very important Like that's going to affect -Okay. -You do all your cooking here? -Yeah. Well we do a lot of cooking over there. I eat with the group typically. -Great. -They cook on wood over there. Over here I'm unfortunately -Have you spent much time in China? -No, just a couple of mon... The Chinese government invited me over So it was great. I've been wanting to get to China So just books coming in, donated books. -Okay. -Boxes of them upstairs This entire thing Something interesting to me, -Wow, so if someone coming to you is... like going to Harvard. You know, you're not the but you're the knowledge -On some of these topics, yeah. The reason Chinese gardens they're built for self-improvement. The idea is to create an area because what you do in a Chinese garden, is you practice Tai Chi, you do landscape painting, -Mm-hmm. -It's all like for spiritual development. So the purpose of the garden energy, because we I like English landscaped gardens, but the Chinese have this extra dimension that is really a garden -Okay. -Which is what I want my garden to be. It stayed balance between the Daoists who said we should and the Confucians who said So the Confucians are the ones that want The Daoists... But most of all China has made many, many, many Printing, paper-making, gunpowder, But they didn't use it Those are all discoveries were really interested in order to fit better. Not in order to change it around, That was their goal. Yeah. -So what's... explain again You were saying in Greece. -Yeah, there was we should live according to nature. We now call them cynics, and skeptics, Uh... But all that's left is fragments. There's not very much left Heraclides and so on, -What about the argument that yeah, this way, modern world, more off the land, isn't scalable for the average person? i.e. you're in an apartment tower You're really taking up very little space You're all sharing one roof. You're not taking up land. So in a way, because society, on the earth right now at this very time, if everyone was spread out then there'd be -I looked into it at one point 'cause this was about 40 years ago. But the amount of land per person, it was doable. -In America it's doable? The amount of arable land per capita. And it breaks down into, like there's and then there's sort of agricultural land that would be more like pasture and so on. And then there's wasteland. And you can figure out, you can divide into the number of acres of that stuff and everybody gets and then another couple acres -But I... I-- -My whole project is wasteland. This land would not be classified -Okay. -So that's part of the experiment. -Because it's too hilly? -Hilly and it was 80% rocks. -This was a very fun project. -This is when it originally was built? Almost all the material came off the land. Well-endowed with poplar trees, and I got clay to make cob out of. So it was just me and a couple of guys. The biggest machine that's been Everything is just hand labor. -If you were young, is there any way you'd do it differently? Arranging this lifestyle? -I would have to rethink the whole thing ecosystems and so on. I mean I would still because just for -Okay. -You can't do everything in the woods but part of the reason I'm interested a lot of 'em grow in the woods, and I didn't want to cut down all my trees So there's this whole concept of Which is mostly used in the tropics to try and get people -Yeah. -But it's equally valid here. I was very naive when I started. I never studied botany in school, -You learned all of this -Yeah. What would your advice... You've lived a lot of life, what would your advice be -Get ahold of a little piece of land. -And just start? -And go from there, yeah. Yeah, we used to have Was built at a cost of $50. It was like a kiva. Got bent-in saplings, and then put clay. It was beautiful. A tree fell on it and didn't really bust it down that water started to get in. So about ten years later, there was But it was wonderful. So that's like a house you could And you're off and running. You don't need much more You don't need a big bankroll. I started off here, that I got from a season of apple picking. We bought a bunch of tools, and we Packed it all into a little Volkswagen The whole thing we need to do That explains all the problems It's because we no longer Once upon a time, we had a valid niche, and then we went off on our own. -But maybe the system was very communal. Like your trip, I'm sorry, -Borneo. Very communal, -Tribal. We're in a very Has its pros, has its cons. One of the cons is where there's community doing -What holds it together? -'Cause there they have or some sort of spirits or Gods. -Kinship, tribal society, yeah. -So what do we have holding us together? I mean religion's always been -Here's a book I'm reading at the moment. -Yeah. He's got a positive definition I see a huge dichotomy between what I call The primitive being life in Gaia, based on money. Uh... Yeah, they have... Primitive societies Tribal societies, -So you can always tap out here in a way? We're in a modern society, if you and someone or something's gonna help you. Like even if you had an accident, -Mm-hmm. -Maybe there's that knowing For sure, that gives us Uh, whether or not that's gonna be [Peter] Where do you think, as a society, where things are heading? -Ooh, I think we've got Just merely with climate change, you know? Large parts of the country are If we think we've got Wait until everything below What are we gonna do then? Politically, the one way people They want somebody in authority It's impossible for the government 'cause the problems -But an argument would be, &quot;The left wing is authoritarian and they want everyone -Yeah, I know. -Each side says the same thing. -It's interesting. Yeah, there's this guy, Roger, He thinks Al Gore with his myth about global warming. -Is Al Gore still flying private though? -[chuckling] I don't even know [Joe] So this is... I've never done anything Introduced a few interesting plants in its natural state. -These are foreign, -Oh no, they're totally native. -When you get down, there's much more variety -Yes, very big for variety meeting the southern flora. -Right at this spot? Pretty much right in here. Mount Mitchell is -Okay. -And a number of other things. Whereas it's also the farthest north So yeah, we've got Very fortunate. [Peter] If the grid went down, let's just say supply chains The grid goes down, how long do you think you could sustain out here -Uh, well me personally, If I had six or eight people here There's just any amount but that many people, So we're gonna have to get on the stick -This is one of the shelters that we have. -It's like a space ship. That's exactly my thinking. -It's hard to explain -Mm-hmm. -And then you're looking down. -Which was actually nomadic called a yurt. -But this is a wooden version Who lived way up in Maine very remotely. -He was off the grid more than me. -Had to walk into his place -Are there a lot of people doing this? -I think so. I have no idea how many, I think -Yeah, you wouldn't know, -There was a very big back in the late '60s, early '70s. Most of them gave it up and went back home 'cause their parents kept nagging them to grow up and get a job, So you have these lingering pockets. Celo, just down the road is the oldest -Oldest intentional community in America? -A mile and a half down the road. That's partly why I'm here. Celo Community Incorporated Had a lot of draft avoider types. It was started by a man named He was the first head of Antioch College -Sure. A lot of Quaker influence. They have like 1,600 acres, It's an intentional community. They... But not like Twin Oaks. I mean they don't all Everybody's got their own... -They're driving off the community They can drive off -Oh sure, there's carpenters, a lot of them are craftspeople, -So they just want to be -Yeah. -I think there's gonna be -That's the next big challenge is for us to relearn Because our emphasis on money means we don't really need each other. [bees buzzing] It's so crappy that it would be So we're just using it until -Okay. It's like a joke really, So these are all Chineses herbs. So these, your purchasing? They don't come from here? -Most of them grow in my garden. -Oh, they come from your garden? What's in my garden If we harvest stuff from my garden -Okay. -These are tinctures in process. -It's like a canning process -It's preserving with alcohol. Extracting and preserving with alcohol. -How long do you do this for? -About a month, then we -Oh. -And you're selling-- Good for the brain, good for broken bones. -So you're selling this here? -So people have to come here to get it? People come in, -Oh, great. So if someone's in North Carolina come into this building-- -Mm-hmm. -...take whatever, leave a donation. -$15 for a two ounce bottle... -Okay. I've thought about just but a lot of people are happier They don't want to [water trickling] This is beautiful in here, Joe. This is like a whole 'nother zone. An old cabin? -Yeah. That's what I built out of the trees Then I used some more of them That was the first thing I ever built. I had a Foxfire book that told how a traditional I personally am just And mountains are very big Philosophy and medicine as well. If the herb is good for something, it's twice as good 'Cause there's more of this I don't know if he's home. [knocks] [door opens and creaks] -Okay, so one of your workers lives here? -Yep. -This is so cool. -There's two houses like this and then there's two yurts and then there's various places but we haven't gotten around -Okay. -The whole idea of it's gonna be some gardeners, some people that can do Just a variety of folks. [birds chirping and bees buzzing] This is Ryan, he's been coming And Kate, this is Kate's second year. -She has a lot of gardening experience. -She's great, Rich is just -Helping split wood. -This was half of my life work right here. The other half being the garden. So the half that was right here and it was an exceedingly good library. The whole back wall and then the back end was my apothecary. It was a whole wall of tinctures. Both Chinese and native plants, and another partial wall Maybe a hundred different species. There was a cabinet Some of them quite rare. The fire even was so intense That also burned up. -How did it start? -It started by accident who made a fire Which has been done thousands of times but he neglected to put it out -Oh, I'm sorry. -That's all it took. -At 5:00 in the morning it was I ran downstairs, grabbed and dropped the fire ext-- [laughs] Forget it, -Right. -You know, 50 feet high. -This is where you cook your food? -That's a pizza oven, This is meant to You can see there's windows everywhere, Kind of maddening. -It's a lot to manage? -Glance in the old yurt if you want. -Nobody in there at the moment. -Yeah, so if you don't keep up on this, I mean it's in two months -There are no ghost towns in Appalachia. You go out West, you know, there's Not around here. -They just get grown over? This is the oldest building here, It's really on its last legs. -There's a lot of rot. -Been neglected at different times. So just as an effort we covered the whole roof with plastic. It can't really be repaired. -Oh, this one looks nice. -It's one of my favorite spaces of all. There's something really nice about -[chuckles] -When everything you own is just like That's what makes it easier -And this stays plenty warm -It... doesn't hold heat. -Okay. -But it's very easy to heat up. -Yeah. -So you can come in there and you can have it It's on it's way out, you know? It used to have an openable skylight So this is kind of a last ditch effort I'm gonna feel very sad when it it's inevitable. [water trickling] [Joe] More and more, more middle class, it seems like. They just want to get out of the city, idealistic goals that I have and had. &quot;I want to have some chickens It's great. -The pandemic really did that, huh? -I gather... pretty sure Possibly a certain amount of... I'm told that the phrase is doomsaying. I never heard that phrase But you know, a certain amount So it's wanting a better life that the life you have back in the city -Anything else you want to say, Joe? -I'm sure there's probably a lot, Just want to refer people to my website -Okay. And you're looking for -Yeah. To help out with all of this -Hopefully people with some experience. -I usually say you should have -...to think about becoming an apprentice. -Now we do take on woofers very short term -Okay. -When we have the space. I don't know, we're all of a sudden -But long term is more ideal, right? -Like for the full summer season. -Come back for... The longer people stay, -So what they're getting for that but the big takeaway is live in an environment like this. Pretty much completely removed, -Mm-hmm. -All right. Room, board, and educational opportunity -Thank you, appreciate it. -I respect how you're living. -It's great. -Good. -All right, thanks for coming along, guys. Until the next one. somber country [Joe] These are good echinaceas, [Man] When would you even do that, fall? Fall, or early spring? [Joe] No, probably not.