$6.7 trillion. That is how much debit or credit cards in 2019. were made using cards from Visa, dominated the payment card Not only are the majority of all United States on Visa cards, but over time, including from the Department of Justice has had show Visa has, quote, market as a matter of law, so there's dominant. As payment cards become more Visa has quickly grown to become companies in America. As of over $480 billion and reported billion for 2020. Shares of the 170% gain in the past five Really good way to think about every $100 spent on a Visa card about a quarter of that meaning every time you buy a pair of cents of that. As the network incremental margins, and so the naturally goes up. But Visa's success hasn't always who have no choice but to rely If I can ask Visa for one thing, swipe fee arena. We are paying too much money off of us. And that you have, with all of your swipe fees across all markets unfair. We don't do business do business that way so I don't it. So how exactly does Visa make the payment card industry. The Bank of America launched licensed credit card for middle medium size merchants in 1958. Today, the computer is changing business. By 1970, Bank of America gave up card, passing the control to a continue to manage, promote and United States. The company grew internationally by 1974 and in 1975. Every month British shoppers billion pounds worth of goods on In 2007, Visa completed its formation of Visa Inc, and went billion in one of the largest US Visa was set up to be dominant. association of 1000s of banks banks came together and national credit card. But of position because it was There are still Class B shares actually owned still by those Today, Visa has grown to become payment processing networks, cards in the market across over Visa generated over $4 trillion States, according to the comparison, MasterCard has over with a purchase volume of Visa does have a huge number of MasterCard, without question. anomalous, they have more cards visa cards in both credit and and Visa dominates the markets. And it's a profitable business rarely had a decline in revenue, outperform the S&amp;P 500 excluding the year isn't over yet 2021 is underperformed the S&amp;P 500. In still reported net revenue of expenses at 7.8 billion, its year came to roughly 10 point 7 Their profit margins are huge, but then, gosh, 30 40% profit sense in the retail industry, two, three, maybe 4% range. So as a business, the reason it's a primarily fixed cost infrastructure all in place, that's flowing through that high incremental margins, capacity network. And so, as profitability has gone up So how exactly does Visa make belief, Visa doesn't make any fees. Instead, those fees are most cases, banks, allowing Visa come with lending money. So Visa does not have direct consumers, the banks do the may get your card, or I may get Wells Fargo or Citibank or any including local banks. But while Visa cards, they're really not, happen to have Visa on them. And cards. Visa's business model relies four party model. When you use a there are usually four entities customer making the purchase, customers money, the merchant that works as a middleman entities together. They're a physical network, not or an internet style network. voice. Internet carries carries money, right. So it's a network that connects about financial institutions globally. card, a series of messages have the cash register or the website purchase. Going back to your to see whether you are who you have the money, right, to do an go back and kind of clear and actually move the money from into the merchants bank account. A majority of Visa's gross data processing fees that are practice. Roughly 34% consists Visa charges, card issuers like branded payment methods. They charge a set of fees brand network that creates the trust that enables it so that merchant anywhere in the world plastic. But if it says Visa on then the transaction works. And that didn't have that audit International transaction the company's gross revenue. revenue. Visa has also been types of payment that could for the company in the near This is like B2B payments, This is like disbursements. think like an Uber driver or payout, things like that there's payments to people to you're really taking a long term increasingly other forms of increasing part of their Visa's success in the payment to a series of legal cases and The Department of Justice has entered into consent decrees Visa used to have rules that cards could not issue any cards Express and that was found to be rules tying together credit merchants if you wanted to accept a debit card, and vice of other industries that have than this one. In December 2019. Visa and billion to settle against of charging excessive fees. The settlement of an antitrust case, of the case, Berger Montague. $5.3 billion takeover of Plaid. Visa and Plaid are terminating After the Department of Justice the grounds that it would limit industry. Most recently in certified a class action lawsuit charging excessive ATM fees to declined to comment on the argue that the swipe fees and high for smaller businesses to I don't think the average when they're using their credit certainly do because for me, highest expense line item on my labor. And right after our In 2009. swipe fees collected by billion. A decade later, it more 2019, according to the National processing fees paid by us payments totaled $110 billion in It tends to be somewhere in the pay on a transaction. I know a lot of business owners many people have come to accept No, I mean these these prices pay in swipe fees is so high about it, somebody has to do This is a central part of the that this is the banks acting where they should be competing businesses do. Meanwhile, those in support side of merchants rather than The Visa's business structure is is actually skewed, believe it they actually get the majority and the ecosystem that's they really are pretty agnostic there to serve as this central digital payments kind of What certain is that visa has commerce forever. Visa at some level is a victim sense that they're so ubiquitous that people begin to take it for fantastic just enabler of their always tell people imagine if literally had to pay for the check what your life would though the same thing is true. I merchants, they have to have armored trucks, they have to that count the cash and make the end of every shift. There's griping about the kind of cost reality is that the alternatives And it's a very quick, easy, payments nowadays where you can speeds up your checkout lines of commerce.