(upbeat music) - Well, it is my pleasure to have somebody that I Linus Torvalds, joining me on... At the Innovation Conference about history of Linux, So, if you don't mind, Linus, maybe just start out telling When Linux was getting underway And, take us back, right? You're now 30 years old, right? A little bit over a 30 So, this has been an incredible journey. So, take us back to the beginning. - Right, so 32 years ago, and I was used to home computers, and I came from, for the geeks among you, I was used to 6502 CPUs originally, and then upgraded to the 68K series. And, the C80 camp and the 8086 camp was kind of strange to me. The ugly instructions-- - What, you didn't like - I really did not like And, the odd addressing And, but, at the same time, the writing was on the wall and the 386 had come out, right? - Yes, yes, my baby. - And, 386 really changed, took away... Well, I mean it, you could You could ignore all the bad parts. And, I really wanted and that's where your book comes in, because that was one of the to learn my new machine and start writing low level code to really understand it was all the PC peripheral which I was completely unfamiliar with. And, so I wrote a VGA character driver, I've wrote the serial driver, I've learned how to get because that was kind of And, when you do that, and you work on it for a few months, suddenly, what you have is kind of the beginning And, I realized that if I I could actually use this, not just as a like teaching myself how the system worked, but also use it as a daily driver. And, that's when I actually as an operating system. - So, when you... When it went from being, hey, this is just me learning the... This new machine to it did you have any idea - No, and I didn't really... I had a very low expectations, because I was always expecting that, okay, this is one of these projects and then, at some point, I will get bored, and then I will get a real which I couldn't afford at the time, because I came from a not blue color, but like not a-- - Pretty humble beginning. - Exactly, right. And, so what happened was that I was still pretty So, I put it out, and it wasn't really initially Initially, it was more like, right? Kind of, this is, this is kind of cool, this is interesting. Maybe, somebody else is interesting. And, that completely changed everything. And, that's, I went from being, kind of, knowing about open source to being completely convinced this is the only way I ever want to do it. - That was your light bulb moment. - That was my light bulb moment, because it... It wasn't initially so all these other people, because that took a while. It really takes a while for the process to get to the point where But, it meant that this project that... Was my small thing that suddenly the open source part made it so much more because I got questions, I got people involved that Can you do something about this? I ended up having to because I didn't care originally. And, I wrote a small but there was this, I who said, I have a math core processor It only uses your emulation So, I actually got myself hardware just to be able to support people who suddenly were that I hadn't taken so seriously before. - So, all of a sudden, so this project is gaining momentum. You have people starting around the world and you've taking a life on, and so on. And, all of a sudden, you've unleashed the operating system wars, you have all these other and Microsoft, and so on. And, all of a sudden, it's So, what's the dynamics here? - Well, to me, I mean you mention all these but, to me, they didn't matter, right? I didn't care. To me, like... - They cared about you. - It, not initially, but But, even when, like, we made jokes about and we made jokes about world domination, and they turned out to not because the world domination And, the Windows jokes And, for the people who it was never about the competition. It was really all about the technology and making Linux itself better. And, it turns out a lot of about so BSD had all of a lot and it's really hard to and try to make that fit in your world. - Yeah, yeah. - Right? So, we never even went down that path. And, there was also the BSDI lawsuit and everything ugly going on on that side, which would have made But, it was not that we... Well, it was that we really ignored all the other operating systems and there were people but they, they're actually fairly. - Now, so, one of the things, obviously your friend, Dirk Hondel, worked for me at VMware, and we're in the middle of Covid, right? And, all of a sudden everybody And, all of a sudden, we have distributed development going on. - It wasn't actually all of a sudden, because I'd been working from home. - Precisely, precisely. And, this idea of fully and, I think, how often actually even been I mean, you've always worked once again, you were like - We literally did not notice, in fact, somebody did the statistics in some of the early months and people staying more at home meant that they were more productive when it came to Kernal work. It did, we do actually where maintainers get - Oh, is that beer or pizza or do you actually do work there? - We do some work there. - Okay, not much though. - But, it is, it is social and it's a way to catch and what's going wrong, And, we missed that for a couple of years, but it actually happened two weeks ago. So, we're back on track. We have met each other but it's, the real work, gets all done over email. And, when we meet, it's about the... It tends to really be not about code issues. Because, code you can discuss over email and you can actually quote much more easily in email - Yeah, and I, as we were in that period, we're now all of a sudden everybody had to do distributed work. It was like, man, you've been doing this at that point. - And, it's wonderful. It is wonderful. I mean, you can tell you have trouble getting people I think. - Yeah, it really has been You didn't realize how far right there. Now, talk about open source in And, cloud is taking advantage of open source industry ways, and just give us your perspective on that. - You know, there's no... There's no cloud is taking advantage of. There's more like some companies are not necessarily as good at really participating in the process and it's-- - Say more, what do you mean - So, to be a really productive user, you don't have to just use the product, you have to interact in doing bug reports, in helping support the project, and ultimately being part of the actual development community. And, some companies are more And, it's maybe... And, it's not so much cloud or not cloud. Intel has been very good. I mean, I was... - Thank you. - Which-- - [Pat] And, we're gonna be better. - Actually surprised, it surprised me, because when I moved to the US, we had a lot of problems that could not participate, you cannot do that. - Those nasty lawyers, they're - That was a problem. And, then something happened, and it was almost like and it must have been something inside, where the lawyers were told make it work. And, Intel became one of the But, we have cloud providers and do a lot of development, And, we have cloud providers who, I call them black holes, I will not name names, where-- - Maybe some of our listeners can guess-- - People, yes, some places you can and become developers inside that company and we never hear from them again. - Yeah, so open source is really but it's participating and - And, the participation have to be about actual development, because development is something, I mean, development is a part of it, but it's not necessarily We have like, I concentrate but a lot of problems get found only once you have users, and having companies and individuals who just test and who participate in literally doing test cases, doing documentation, just sometimes teaching other has been a huge deal. So, it's multifaceted, let's put it that way. That it's not necessarily... people think about open who do the programming, but it actually is a lot more than that. - Now, talk a little bit more, I mean, part of open source is also right? And, how that has progressed as well. Just talk a little bit more, and how you participated in that, and your views on where that is today. - Well, I mean we have multiple and I happen to like some of them, and I'm not a fan of others, but, in the end... People choose the license that they are most comfortable with. And, the open source for what a license has to do in order to be called open source. And, they basically boil down to everybody has to be able to participate and then you can have, but you can't limit people's And, for me, personally, it has always been the legal side hasn't been as important as the conceptual side to... For me, open source is tit for tat. We all give each other something and the tat is you give, you give your improvements back. And, it turns out, in game theory, tit for tat is considered to be a fairly good strategy in general, not just in like when but just as a general And, I think one of the to opensource, for me, has been that everybody needs to feel like they are at an equal footing. We've had a lot of companies and it's perfectly legally fine, but it tends to result in a... In politics and internal when one company or one entity has more rights than the other entities. So, I've tried to... I've personally tried to always very clearly, I'm not special, I'm the top level maintainer but if somebody else does a better job and, one day, that will happen, they will take over, because I don't have any special rights except for the fact that people trust me, because I've been doing - Yeah, so it does seem I mean this idea of contributing And, having the, right? The exposure of the community and then finally the trust - Yes, but, I mean, so you say I don't of contributing to the community, because that implies a that I'm not a huge believer in. So... - Okay, tit for tat, yes. - I really think it's more like you're not contributing to the community. What you're doing is you better for yourself and the rules of the project end up then meaning that, as you're making it better for yourself and trying to improve your own situation, you kind of... - Make it better for everybody, - Indirectly contribute to the community. But, your... You should always be And, that's actually how a lot of these open source projects, including very much the Kernel, have improved so much is because, I'm looking at all that we've done in the last 25 years, and none of it was stuff because, as far as I was the system pretty much It... - Yeah, and I've been very fascinated, when Linux was first starting, I was a young engineer, right? And, watching this and, right? And, it was always curious to me how it would play in the 'Cause, enterprise, they somebody to maintain And, some of the legal associated with that. And, that was somewhat surprising to me how the whole enterprise licensed Of open source emerged. - A lot of it took... I mean, all the initial enterprise use tended to be grassroots use, where somebody in the IT-- - [Pat] Yeah, some fringy guy. - Yeah, exactly. - Or, often, they were not in IT. - Just decided I need to do or something like that, and started using it internally, and it took years for, especially legal does tend And, it's licensing, obviously, but it's, in general, when you that makes some people And, having all the infrastructure, including having companies to blame when things go wrong so that you have somebody come and fix this, that took a long time. I mean, it's... It... None of this has been exactly overnight. Actually, so Linux has been Just to contrast that with the and that was almost It was like, that was a project that I kind of knew And, I've done this... I've started a project before, and now I'm starting a new project, and I was like, this is gonna take years. And, nobody's interested in And, CBS has been around for decades and nobody has ever been And, initially, that And, then that was overnight, the... Like the Ruby people, strange people, started using Git, and, suddenly, it just exploded. And, that was very different from Linux, which was interesting to see. - Yeah. Now, let's move forward a little bit. AI and machine learning, right? Obviously, lots of open in that space, but, in machine learning, the data is maybe more critical, the training sets, the data right? And, say a little bit more about your views on how that and do we need more open data initiatives to compliment what I'd Here, right? The code can be small, It was just... - Right, I mean we've seen It's not just AI. I think AI is the one that just because it's such a big, like... Big issue, both, technically and from But, if you look at a and hardware issues, you do see some of the same things where game engines, for example, is something where, on the and, on the other hand, you have the data and the game environment, and the two are fairly clearly separated, and you can have one game engine that runs many different games, and a lot of the intellectual on the pure data side. - Yeah, well, and even here, I mean, when we think about a lot of it has nothing It has everything to do for that algorithm. And, if they're closed, do I know that this was a good model that was produced associated with it? - Well, and we're seeing that you see with people, when you have data sets that are biased in ways you don't even realize. Yeah, no. I have to say I'm not... I only get involved with AI in the sense that we see it on the On the hardware space, where we provide drivers And, I've been so hyper that anything I say about AI - And, I love what you said I was trying to get you to 20 years down the road. And, how did you describe yourself? - That I'm a plotting engineer, right? And, I'm... I take pride in that, but I realize it also means that there are these people with, visionaries that want to and I don't tend to be one of them. - Yeah, well, and I in that constancy of purpose, in a consistent direction, right? Right? You just keep progressing. - And, you need, you You need... You need the kind of person for 30 years, which, I mean, not - Yeah, that's a different So, here we are, right? We're at the Intel We say, and as I like to say, we used to have the Intel Developer Forum, and I am bringing back that spirit, engaging with developers, rebuilding of our cred open standards, interfaces, WiFis, USB, PCIEs, and now we're doing triplet And, as you would look - Well, I think everybody The problems on the execution for everybody. And, it's... I don't, I mean, I don't and fab issues. What I see, have seen, are kind of the fallout from the Intel software the last few years have not as they were before. And, people have not been as happy with being inside of Intel, because I don't think been a very happy place for a few years. And, I'm hoping that's changing. - Well, that's certainly my job, right? To change it, as well. And, we're... We're getting on it, right? As we rebuild. And, obviously, having are about rebuilding our commitment, our engagement with the community, participating, driving standards as well. Other advice for me? - So, what I've really liked about Intel is when you do standards I loved how NVME turned out. PCIE is obviously another great thing. The Xavier6 architecture in general. I just think, put good hardware out there and document it enough that That's all I ask for, because that makes my job so much easier. We... There are clearly other companies that don't do the documentation and don't help make-- - Well, that's why you I documented the 3D sets-- - Absolutely, right? No, documentation is important, even if I'm probably the since I never write any myself, so. - How dare you? - Yeah, no, it's... It's being a bit... Yeah, asking others to but it's also participation, yes? Being, especially for a hardware company, when it takes years to get or other new hardware out into the market, and then it takes like a and it's, well, it hopefully takes a week and it's on shelves. For us to support it, it usually takes months or years. So, being proactive and actually interacting before the product is out, and Intel has been good in that sense. - Yeah, well, and, tomorrow, we'll be announcing early hardware on the intel dev cloud, right? Which, starting to put if not a year or more, that developers start to And, starting to really... And, to me, I'm just passionate about that people can start saying, oh, that's a cool idea, and we're ready to be tested on our ideas early in the process. Get that feedback early, get the hardware out there in their hands. - And, since I have your I... The thing I sometimes despise and Intel has had that problem is when you do market segmentation where certain features Certain markets that aren't necessarily as available as others. And, I'm thinking of things I mean, it's gone now, maybe but that was very painful for us when only certain server CPUs had it. And, the people who actually couldn't access it easily And, that's... That's, I think, an area and not let the market segmentation drive these kind of technical issues that make it hard for developers. - Well, I look forward to in the future, right? And, maybe, you're just one fun little way to finish our time together. What is this about penguins? - There is no deeper It was, literally, I was in Australia many, many years ago and there was a fairy penguin there. They're literally, and they weigh a pound And, I was in an enclosure and I tried to get it to come closer by making like a fish, and it bit my finger. And, I thought that was very cute. So, when we were looking for a-- - [Pat] A mascot? - Mascot, it was like, And, they're like well known enough that people know what a penguin is, but they're not like a dog or a cat or something like so common that they're not really noticeable, so. It turned... I, it was funny, a lot of people thought that the penguin, especially the Linux kind was a really bad logo, because this was late 90s. Like Linux was not that So, a lot of people felt was a bad thing for a project that wants to appear-- - Enterprise that's great, yeah. - Yeah, exactly, yes. And... And, then the whole .com thing happened and it turns out that, on having a friendly and like is actually a good thing. - It looked pretty good, yeah. - And, I'm told that the Linux logo has actually been used as a... As an example of great - Your great technology, an entire open source movement, and the pinnacle of branding as well. - Yeah, no, it was And, I did... I did not design the logo. I just... I just gave a high level and I made it a kind of competition for who can come up with the best one. And, then others did the graphical part. - My wife and I did a cruise to Antarctica and we saw tens of thousands of penguins. So, anyway, it's a pretty... We like 'em too. - Yeah, no, it's a nice, Although, the Linux penguin of penguins and ducks, 'cause penguins don't actually that the Linux penguin has. - Very good. Well, I am, again, so honored to have you join Thank you for taking time for joining us on stage, being here, and, of course, becoming the recipient of the Intel first ever I couldn't think of for the evolution of technology, the development of entirely and deploying in has become the operating system of choice for so many industries. Thank you so much, Linus. - Thank you.