Hey, everybody. Welcome back to the channel and welcome back Child series. In this video, I'm going to be going over You might be emotionally aware of these, but name them yet. In my practice, I see them as really common I'm not going to be going into them from a where I'm talking about flashbacks or abandonment I'm not going to be getting into examples I feel like we get overly clinical or too And when we do that, we lose the narrative. We lose the personal childhood trauma stories ways that we do. These six trauma triggers are from the day-to-day to not know them as childhood trauma triggers. If you're new to me or new to the channel, My name is Patrick Teahan. I'm an LICSW. I am both a therapist and a life coach getting trauma recovery. If you find this video helpful to you, you the screen, like the subscribe button, the You can't miss with any of these buttons. If you find that the channel is important can support the work that goes into this channel If you just like to connect with me, you can I will have all the links in the description In my work, nailing our childhood trauma history ways that we don't want to. But we can't create a new empowered narrative the original history is. As a reminder, in this video, in the context I mean any of the following. I mean an activated limbic system or being attach or submit. I can mean that it's an emotional or body It can simply mean going to a big place or up or shuts us down. But what I really mean when I say triggered our present from a place of being activated, gone. You can even think about that as an overly frontal lobes and the adult is sort of MIA. The frontal lobes is where the adult part our best sort of thinking self. So there's that. Let's jump in and let's see if you guys identify Let's look at the first one - number 6. People who are thoughtless or oblivious. This can be anybody that you know, can be can be whatever. Some examples... People who are gregarious or loud and they're People who are selfish drivers or unaware People who don't hold the door for others, Loud cell phone talkers in public, that can People who didn't contribute to bringing things One of your kids being on their cell phone People who don't read that others are in pain. And people who monopolize conversations. That's all examples of situations where people or oblivious. The vibe in general is, people who are self-consumed This can really activate us and can also enrage Yeah, they're all general annoyances, but up and it becomes bigger. If you grew up with narcissistic parents, parents, or very self-consumed parents, that's comes from. I think about even if we have a drunk, messy completely thoughtless and oblivious and unaware So there's an example there. We were treated in childhood growing up without seeing other peoples do the same to others. So we get into this like policing thing of Inner children can actually do a lot of moral You know you're triggered in this stuff when a narrative in your head with like, &quot;Who does I would never do that. I could never go to a party empty handed.&quot; Or, &quot;I would apologize profusely if I forgot Those are examples of moral policing. When you feel that, you need to think back and think of the parent who might have been Thoughtless and oblivious to what? That they are thoughtless and oblivious when That probably sounds familiar if you're interested When this is no longer an issue we lose interest or what people doing. It's actually really freeing and it's nice. We see people as more complex than that. This is the separating between projecting just seeing people as more human. Even if they're jerks, that's the caveat. Some of these examples that I gave you guys, is, it doesn't create such a change in us So there's that. Let's move on to number 5. Saying no plus mind reading, combining some You're probably aware if you struggled or no, but there's more to it. We expect others to read our minds about our Not about the struggle to say no, but our Due to shame, the inner child can't stand like in childhood. So we say yes and we self sabotage. I know you guys sort of know that story. But there's a weird dark side to it for a involves resentment to saying yes and wanting In many ways, guys, we get stuck developmentally This is a little bit tricky to explain. That's totally appropriate given what our in saying yes and then projecting childhood Here's the pattern. Here's what I mean. Someone asked you to go above and beyond. You know you can't do what is asked without Side note, you may already have a social reputation this stuff. So you struggle with the consequence. You're now working on the weekend just because, You're resentful at the person not seeing You're hurt about the person not getting that in a good place. Where I'm going here is that good parents we didn't get that and we project that need We kind of often want a bit of omnipotence Like with our partner knowing we've had a are you asking me to go out when you know Where in other words, &quot;See what I mean about See what I mean about you should be more sensitive That's totally an inner child thing. It doesn't mean that the partner isn't sort I'm keeping the focus on us here. Like with the boss, &quot;How could they ask me already?&quot; That could be true. But we're also thinking about like, &quot;Don't That energy belongs to our parents, because mean about this as an example. I see this as an ongoing story of childhood We say yes to be valued from a parent, but play out like that, like the way that it should The boss doesn't value us in the way that have been our parent's job. We want these people to read our minds, and inner child is up. Also, this can be learned from our own parents. Does anyone in your family do this thing where super aggressive about not being helped, like meal stuff? That's an example of mind reading. I see not saying no as well as not asking totally an inner child thing. The way out of this one is practicing saying our inner child, talking about the lack of seen in how our parents or our partner or what is going on with us the way that our We can say no to our partner about going out, about it. Even though that's hard, we can say no to about what our responsibilities are, even Hopefully that one made sense. That was a mouthful. Number 4. Having someone be mad at you/being misunderstood. Yes. No one is super pumped to have someone be But for childhood trauma survivors, this is the person mad, how do we get them to change them? How do we get through to them. Some examples like; the bus driver who was on you, the coworker who was frustrated with who was upset with you sort of in a bump, you're not supporting the toxic parent enough. That's probably off the charts kind of trigger. This one is rooted in shame, having people Growing up in abuse, it really wasn't safe In fact, that is the stuff that stays in a raged at by a toxic parent like, &quot;I can't I can't believe you would ask me for that actively sort of shaming a child. And I'm being really light about it. Some kids are just flat out raged at to the Worrying about someone being mad at us will It's like a shame attack. Healing this is to reclaim the ability to What do I mean by that? I mean that the adult part can parent the to have a toxic parent be mad at you when of having like a grumpy coworker who was frustrated, We were greatly misunderstood growing up. I'm still trying to make sense of this. I've been in practice for awhile. Our parents didn't see us as children. Toxic parents usually see their kids as selfish which is super messed up. But that's the definition of being misunderstood, We weren't seen as children, that we weren't forward thinking adults. Hopefully that makes sense to you. So that kind of childhood wrecks regular old It is humanly impossible to not have others to time, right or wrong. It's very freeing to allow someone to be grumpy One of my favorite recovery ideas is to just if it's about us, but that wasn't safe growing And if we heal shame, everything is just so Imagine the ability to be like, &quot;Oh, my coworker's I get it. They were frustrated. They had to pick up my slack. It'll pass or we'll work it out.&quot; Imagine having that ability, that's super But the inner child, that stuff needs to sort Moving on. Number 3. Other people's moods. Very similar to the last one, but this one's We are hypervigilant about disappointing people on with them and then later blowing up at Moods. The partner who is quiet or even sad because something going on, or the boss who seems going on for them, or the coworker who is on in their personal life. Those are all examples about other people's They usually highly affect childhood trauma Wounded inner children feel responsible for been done or about what they're not telling us. I see this as rooted in both shame and vigilant adults or even having very emotionally up Often, clients including myself, describe That's a super important word and when you the child has to monitor and watch for the they are actually the good times are more So, inconsistent parenting, inconsistent moods, I sort of mean by that. We are super, super tuned in to other people's up. And yes, chances are, if you're interested That is both a blessing and a curse. But to be honest, there is work to do with like they are responsible for everyone's emotional This can be really hard to let go of as it How to parent our inner child on this one is on their own path. Everyone is responsible for their own feelings. And it doesn't always mean that something are feeling their feelings, but also to validate have to know what others were feeling in order afloat. So there's that. Number 2, this one's weird. Ambiguity. This is really what I find to be. One of the most prevalent triggers, is not Some examples; not hearing back from a job, knowing what the future is going to bring, as you did, having an email exchange at work then it just gets dropped for a while, having or someone we care about, not knowing if your plans to get shored up while sitting on with This one is tough. I believe it's rooted in fundamental security. My mentor says that every child needs a safe brings to them. We didn't get that in childhood. From a childhood trauma view, we grew up without We waited to feel okay. It's almost like when you think about insecurity, insecurity including myself. It was external things that made me feel okay. It did not come from an internal source. In my case growing up, the security issues I was raised by two very neglectful alcoholics. My siblings and I waited for the adults to be home. In addition to that, it was ambiguous about in because we knew we were banking on trying our security. That meant the field trips signed, the milk needed, or simply just needing the feel like All of that stuff, that waiting, I feel contribute I think ambiguity bothers us because we struggle Sure. And waiting to hear back on a job is tough liked is sort of hard. But wouldn't it be great if we didn't get The inner child reparenting on this one is way a belief system that is rooted in, &quot;We'll Security. I really think it comes from having a deeper, that we can feel secure to ourselves. Another belief thing is the ability to be fate or the ability to let go. A spiritual practice in some sort is very Why? Because due to our trauma, we rely too heavily rather developing it from within. That's what I mean by ambiguity on that one. And the last one. The last one is a big one. The last one is feedback. I look at feedback as three types; positive, They are all triggering in their own weird Positive feedback can be triggering to shame, body can interpret compliments or doing well it can just feel icky. I think that this is due to growing up somehow at a siblings expense, or the parent being lived their life. Positive feedback is difficult because it's It doesn't match the insides. That's why it's often hard for us to take You know your shame is activated if you can't Negative feedback, this is sadly more comfortable But it can also be triggering if growing up, Like, &quot;Well, your brother did a better job than you.&quot; That kind of stuff. Another issue is negative feedback can be because we feel like people don't have the what's going on with us. Coming back to the earlier one's sort of about from childhood where too much was asked of a place of awfulness or it being really unfair. All of that, the reactions to feedback in Neutral feedback is weirdly the worst. For example, if you're cooking a meal for And they're like, &quot;Yeah. Meh. It's all right.&quot; It's so ambiguous. It's so meh. It's so neutral. I think that drives us crazy because we don't You know what I mean? It's like if a professor was sort of like, He's like, &quot;Yeah, it was all right.&quot; You know? You know you did the thing and there's not about it. I think we struggle more with this one because We're going to ruminate about like, &quot;Do I They must have hated it and they're trying That's a common one. All that stuff. Most importantly, in the group work that I feedback issues and intimacy issues because feedback from healthy people. The trauma survivors' job, each member's job while trying to stay in present and receive group members. That's where we're trying to undo all of this And as my mentor says, &quot;Growing up, feedback thing, because it's like we're growing up is just so warped. The work there is really hard about getting Some other things you guys can do from your triggered around the feedback, is to think You might have grown up in a very emotionally communicate much so you really didn't know think about neutral feedback sort of being Or, that you were manipulated and goated into of a trigger. That's what I mean about those dynamics. That is the six in my mind, almost the top and through my own recovery. And I hope that they were helpful to you guys. If you have questions, if you relate to them, As always guys, may you be filled with loving and at ease, may you be joyous. I'll see you guys next time.