Hi everyone! It's Kaneko. Today, I would like to do that series for the first time in a while. Lunch series! And I'm going to do that with no limit, today. I would like to unleash the power of adults. I will go to the store and buy what my gut tells me I want to eat. I would like to make lunch with that. If I don't set a limit every time, the food will be like a Japanese inn. But I think that's just as well. Here we are! Nice weather, isn't it? It's a perfect day to fish. Shall we go? Oh! Well, look who's here. At the time of eating lunch. Are you going to eat bento? Let me see your bento. Are you gonna look? yes,yes,yes Are you? I want to see, I want to see. Ta Da! It's nice right? That's a really good lunch box! It's so good! What are you doing here today? What do you think? Take a guess. Take a guess. I'll guess. Guess it for real. I will guess for real. No, no, no. Make a sashimi set meal you want to eat now. That's close. That's really close. You're sure? One more. You caught a fish and you made it. Hmmm... no. It' s not huh.. May I announce the correct answer? Please do. I try made a series of lunch without limit I see. That's right. So you're making something extravagant, something you want to eat. That's right. Great. So can I take a look at that tank? It's empty, but take a look. Seriously? It's empty. It was here earlier. But there's nothing to see. For real. There's really nothing to see. You know, there's not a lot of fish out there this year. There's not enough fish. That's right. It's really not there. For real! You can do it again when you come back. Okay. I'll buy it somewhere else. Can you call me a week in advance? I'm a bit of a whimsy, so I'll come at a moment's notice. There's a really good one today. There is. There's a really good one. It's been here for a long time, but I've never touched it. Big white trevally From 4,000 yen per fish. Live ones. Let's buy this one. I'll use it as a base for making the fish today. Nice white trevally Thank you very much. Oratosquilla oratoria is good, too. In a fishing town, the best accompaniment for beer is &quot;shako shrimps&quot;! Boiled shako There's octopus, too. It's summer here! It's so summer! Portunidae I am buying portunidae today. Now the uchiko is out and become sotoko. I think the male crabs are good from now on. There is a way to tell if it's a male or a female crab by looking at it from above. It's the length of the claws. If the nails are short, it's a female. The nails are a little long. This is a male. If you can roll up the back of the fish, you can tell with a fundoshi. Small fish area Sole 300 yen! Squid, 600 yen. And now is the season for sillaginidae! I want to go fishing! I heard there are a lot of sillaginidae this year! And Ishimochi! This is interesting! I wonder what it's called. I think it's 500 yen. Stone flounder and Osmanthus heterophyllus, Dotted gizzard shad and Bandfish. Two Sphyraenidae and Short-nosed tripod fish. I think it's a horn fish tripod. This is the guy I scooped the other day. This cute little guy standing up. Hi, Mom. Good morning. How are you? Fine. It's hot. It's hot. I have a visitor from America. You have a visitor from America? They love Kimagure Cook. From California. I'm so happy. Even now, people who saw your YouTube came and bought oysters to take home. Can I take a look? There's a lot of rock oysters. I want to eat rock oysters. Big clams also nice. Kuruma prawns are good, too. I think everything won't be enough. I'm going to buy a lot of things today, because there's no limit! Wow, so many Turbo sazae! Amazing!! There's a Giant isopod! Giant isopod and Whitespotted conger Holothuria atra. It's like that! It's like the petting zone at the aquarium. And there's a lot of lobsters here. A big Striped Beakfish. If you could catch one, you'd be in for a treat. And down here... Takifugu rubripes and... And a big Takifugu pardalis. Plectorhinchus cinctus. And a rock oyster. This rock oyster is huge. I'll take this one. I'd like to buy a lot of things and go back home. Then, i'm going home. *Going home* Alright! So here are today's ingredients A lot of seafood. Now, let's start processing them! [Cooking Start!] Once again, here are today's ingredients A lot of seafood. I think I bought it sparingly. But when I laid them out, they looked like this. I bought too much! I'll start by introducing what I bought. It's a whole fish type. Today's main one is a farmed white trevally. The one that was still swimming earlier. And I also bought some lobsters. Lobsters and... And this is Blackthroat seaperch. And this is a natural kuruma prawn. I got them from mom's place. This is sea urchin and... And Oo toro And yellowfin tuna. Pacific bluefin tuna red flesh. Salmon from Norway I bought these! I think tuna and salmon would make a more beautiful sashimi dish. And I bought a big female Portunidae! There were male crabs too, but I got the female one! I think everyone always sees the inner part of the crab. I wanted to show you what it looks like when it's become sotoko. I bought a big female one! Haliotis from my hometown. Haliotis. Still alive. This is Turbo sazae, also locally caught. And these are giant clams. This is a big one. I also bought meretrix lusoria and asari. Let's make miso soup or something! And here they are! It's so big! Rock oysters! I bought oysters bigger than my fist! Let's eat them raw! And everyone! This month, too, I got this from Asahi-san! Perfect for the hot summer! I received a freshly made Umami Experience Pack from the factory! It's a special Super Dry that comes out once a month! I want to drink it right now, but I'll hold off! I'm going to drink the freshly made silver one at the time of the actual meal! I'm looking forward to it! We have a lot of dishes today, so let's make them quickly and easily! Today's main dish is a sashimi platter. On top of this huge boat-shaped platter, we'll put the fish we bought today that can be used as sashimi. Boil the Portunidae! The giant clams and one Haliotis are grilled. And one of these big ones for sashimi. This one is for sashimi! All high class Oh, my God! This is the one without a limit. I said grilled. Haliotis is put in this ceramic plate. I'll use a ceramic plate to steam it. You know, the kind they serve at Japanese inns. I'd like to make that. That's how I want to start making the best lunch. Let's boil the crabs first. First of all, boil water. And here is the salt we'll use today. Machu Picchu Inca Salt of the Sky It has a strong and punchy taste! I am going to use Machu Picchu salt. I was so tempted to buy some, so I did! Let's take a lick. It's pretty rough. Wow, it's salty. It's supposed to be strong, but it's pretty mild. When the water comes to boil, put the crabs into the water. Because the crab is big this time, boil it for about 30 minutes. In the meantime, i'll process the fish. Okay, let's go to the fish. Let's start with the shrimp. Natural kuruma prawns and lobsters. Lobster. Let's start with the kuruma prawns. I'll start by removing the head. Just like this. But if you tear it off by hand, the meat will come to this side. But when I make sashimi, it doesn't look good, so I just remove the head with a sharp knife. I like it this way. It looks better this way, doesn't it? Because it's natural. It's absolutely delicious. I can't believe they sold live natural kuruma prawns. Boil the head. I boil it with the crab. Then I take the shells out of the prawns. Like this. They look so clear and delicious. I' m going to keep removing more and more like this. Then, break the back. This green one like an extension of the miso paste and the back guts are removed. Like this. Yes, like this. Then boil the tail a little bit. Prepare ice water. Put the tail in the hot water a little bit. Yes, like this Then the meat is clear and the tail is reddish. It makes a very crisp and beautiful sashimi. Then, put it in ice water. I'll do it all like this. Let's absorb the head as well. Take the head off, too. Put it in ice water. When it's cooled down, open it with this horn. Then it will be easier to drain the miso. It's very beautiful when you serve it like this, so I'm going to serve it like this. Now the preparation of the kuruma prawns is completed. Next, let's move on to the lobsters. Insert the knife into the lobster from here. Like this. I'll keep the head for sashimi. I am not going to split them today. Then cut the fins of the lobster. After cutting the fins, make a slit on both sides of the lobster. One One more. Two. Like this. And then i am going to remove the shell. We're going to peel off the top shell. With my fingers, along the edge like this. I'll peel it like this. If you don't like to use your fingers, you can use a small spoon. Like this. Then you split it in half around here Take out the dorsal fins. Like this Beautiful. Then, drop them in ice water to remove the sliminess. Yes, now the shrimp is done. Next, let's go to the fish. Before processing the fish, the crab is ready, so let's put it on the plate first. I'm going to process them quickly. Let's start with the blackthroat seaperch. Remove the scales Then remove the gills Remove the head. I know it's tiny, but I think it's good. I knew it. It's got a lot of fat. Then cut it into three pieces. One from the tail. Flip it around and take another one down the back. Make a guideline and go to the middle bone. Then remove the belly bone. The other side is the same. One down. One up. Yes, like this. Then remove the belly bone. Remove the belly bone as thinly as possible so as not to get any meat on the belly bone. Then, remove the gizzard bone. The fish is very small, so if you break it, there will be less meat. Remove the bones with tweezers. Blackthroat seaperch is very easy to debone. The preparation of Blackthroat seaperch is now complete! Today, I would like to sear the blackthroat seaperch and put it in a boat dish. Next up White trevally. First, remove the scales. After the scales are removed, i will remove the gills. Why do we remove the gills? When you use the head of the trevally, If you don't remove the gills, the gills will slip and blood will fall into the head. I want to remove the gills as much as possible. It's more hygienic that way. Then take out the belly. Here's what it looks like. Farmed white trevally is full of fat! It's amazing! Same as ever It's like beef quality. Put one under the sickle The white trevally is cut with the tail head. How to skin a white trevally Put it in like this. One line in the back and stomach. There is also a way to peel off the skin from the back edge. But i won't do that today. This way is easier and there are no mistakes. But it seems to leave a little streak. I'm going to use a knife. If you take the scales off and use a thin willow knife, you can make a beautiful white trevally. One on the bottom One on the top It's a little bit wasteful, but you can remove it from here. By doing so, the meat of the tail is left and it looks beautiful. Grate this side in the same way. Remove the head from the cutting board, flatten it, and insert the knife from here. That way, it's easier to grate. White trevally is ready to be filleted. Then, remove the belly bone. Then remove the blood bone. Yes, that's right. Then skin the trevally. Start from the tail. Leave as much of the white glint as possible. This is the hardest part. It's perfect. White trevally must have this silvery film or it will look really bad. You can't make a mistake. Okay. Perfect. The belly is easy. It's the back that's the hard part. This back is a beautiful greenish silver color again. Like this. Beautiful, isn't it? Start from the tail, and adjust the angle here. Like this. You can see the silver color. At this angle Like this Yes, i've finished grating the Blackthroat seaperchWhite trevally like this. The fish preparation is now complete. Next, let's go to the shellfish. First, Haliotis. First of all, they are covered with dirt and grime, so let's sprinkle salt on them to clean them up. Then, put the big one on the boat. The small one is grilled on a ceramic plate. This seaweed has a nice taste, doesn't it? It's very natural. Then remove the scallops with a knife. The scallop peeled off like this. And the other side of the peeled scallop I'll take it from this side. Nice Haliotis. The scallop is thick. The flesh is thick. Look at the thickness of the meat. I think it's delicious. And there's a beak right here. This red one. Take off the red beak. And here is the liver. This side here. A little bit longer side like this. Take it from the long side. If you don't take it from the long side, it will tear. Be sure to take it from this side. The liver is big, too. Shall we eat this too? Then I want to use this shell too. I'll boil the shells. And that completes the preparation of Haliotis. Next... Huge rock oyster Let's crack it open. The shell peeling knife is inserted into the gap. It's right here. It's in. Push it in a little bit until it's here. Now, you'll hit the scallop, and when you cut through the scallop, it will open up. It's thick, so it's rather wide, like this. Cut off the scallop And then I'm going to take down the whole flat side of the scallop. That's where the oyster's fins are. And then open it up, be careful not to cut your hands. Delicious! They're huge this time of year. Then take this side off too. Then remove the shell once. Scrub this one, too, and sterilize it by boiling once. Oyster shells are a bit dirty. Cut the oyster meat in half so that it is easy to eat. If you cut it like this You can enjoy two very different textures in the belly and the fillet. If you cut the oyster lengthwise like I did earlier You can enjoy the same flavor from both the belly and the fillet. It's all up to your taste. Then, put the sterilized rock oyster shells on a plate. Wash them under running water. Drain off the water. And alcohol just to be sure. Put them on a plate Put some greens in it. Put the meat back in there. with grated momiji and Kabosu on the side This completes the rock oyster sashimi! Let's make Turbo sazae sashimi too! Like this Then, drop it from the bottom of this swirl! The bottom of the swirl is sweet and tasty! This is the top of the swirl. This one is a little bit bitter, and sometimes it bites sands, so take that one off. Here. We also take off this fillet. Because it's bitter. This black part is also removed. And take off the lid. Take the beak off. Put salt on it to remove the slime. Wash it This completes the preparation of the turbo sazae. Next is the giant clams. The preparation time is a little long. That's a rare thing these days, isn't it? The giant clams are the last to be prepared. Yes, it's broken. Then wash this gap, and the preparation of the giant clams is complete. Next... After all, miso soup is necessary Today we're going to make miso soup with clams They are well washed. First, make soup stock with kombu (kelp) Take out the kombu just before it comes to a boil Then, put clams in the broth just like this. Full of broth and all sauce. I want to add a lot of clams like this. When the lid comes off, dissolve the miso in the soup and the miso soup with clams is ready. After that, let's cut and serve the sashimi. First, let's make the base. The tip is Haliotis, right? Cut the wakame seaweed. Arrange the wakame on top. Then, put the tsuma on top. Then, cut it. First, remove the scallops. Make a slit on this side. And then cut it. Then put it back in the Haliotis shell. Yes, like this Then slice the Haliotis scallop into thin slices. About three equal pieces. Put it back here. Put the scallop here Haliotis tip Next, let's make the base with white trevally. Stick a toothpick into the radish. Stick a toothpick in the head. Lift up the head And stick another toothpick into the daikon. Next is the tail. Lift up the tail like this Like this. Then put the base here. Thanks to the daikon, it stands firmly. Then, put the tsuma on top. I put shiso leaves on the top of it. Cut the white trevally and put them on the plate. Let's make it a little thicker. About this thick. Let's cut the belly too. Now the white trevally is ready. Next, let's cut the lobsters. Shall we put the lobsters around here? Put the tail head. A little mustache, like this. Put the bowl here. Put shiso leaves Then cut the lobster. Arrange them here. It's a little lonely here, so let's go with this. Turbo sazae. I get excited when I see a little bit of turbo sazae on the boat. Put it in. Let's put a little turbo sazae here. Nice! Just one turbo sazae looks good. Oh man, I can't fit any more... There's only room for one more. I'm going to get some more... I'll go for the kuruma prawns. It's beautiful, isn't it, when one of the kuruma shrimps gets in there. Put the head like this. Next, let's go this way. Let's go to the tuna. It's a little bit misshapen, so we're going to shape it. And then cut it into pieces. Next is the fatty tuna. Next, salmon. Next, let's go to the nodoguro (Northern bluefin tuna). Nodoguro is seared. Cut it like this, and then sear it. Then I'll move a shrimp head out of the way and leave the nodoguro here. And lastly, sea urchin. Sea urchin! I wanted to put the whole sea urchin, but it doesn't fit, so I cut it diagonally. The whole piece of plastic Like this. Then, I'll put it here. Put it here. It hides the radish well. It gives it a nice three-dimensional effect. Then, we'll add some ashidai here. Just like in summer. Sunflowers. A little Lavender next to the Haliotis. Flowers are beautiful, aren't they? And here's a switch that I've been really into lately! Kabosu. I cut it a little thicker. Peel it into a large container Remove the pulp And then shrimps Shrimps and citrus go well together. I'm going to extend it here. And then cut a little bit of the scallion. Align the tips. On top of the lobster. And cut up some beautiful red daikon radish. It looks like a watermelon. It looks like summer. Shall I stretch it out around here? There was also some myoga, so let's add some myoga. And lastly, wasabi! Grate the wasabi with this wasabi grinder! I wonder who &quot;choujirosaku&quot; is? I'd like to meet him once, Mr. Choujiro! He's definitely on my list of people I'd like to meet! If you do, put some wasabi here and there. Put some extra kabosu (kabosu is a type of citrus fruit) here and there. Yes, this completes the unlimited boat-loading based on White trevally! [DONE] Okay, then, it's done! Itadakimasu. All right, let's eat up! It's a ridiculous amount of food, isn't it? As I expected, it turned out to be more like an inn meal than a lunch! And I don't know what it is, but oysters arrived at our house! So i've added oysters! I'd like to eat them grilled, too. Let's do it one by one. First of all, let's light the fire of this grilled food. First of all, we have giant clams, sazae, and hamaguri. And this ceramic plate is Haliotis. A mixture of sake and soy sauce. Put this on the giant clams. And for turbo sazae. While these are cooking, let's go around here. First of all, rock oysters! They look so good! Squeeze some kabosu on it. Ponzu sauce. Itadakimasu. Delicious! this rock oysters from mother's place are delicious! There's no bad smell. The string is crispy. The belly is juicy. They're the best. Shall we have some miso soup? So many clams! Itadakimasu. Delicious! And rice! It's gorgeous on its own. Let's eat crab later! Grilled food looks good, so let's grill! The giant clams are so good! Let's turn it over and grill the belly too! The turban sazae are getting ready, too. Hamaguri are ready, too. The giant clams are also good. Turbo sazae is okay too. It looks like this. Mayonnaise on the giant clams! Itadakimasu. Delicious! Surprisingly juicy! You really should try the giant clams. It's a delicious clam! Hamaguri Hamaguri have a great flavor. Then let's go to Turbo sazae. They're great! I'll have this one. Delicious! As weired fish dude said... This size is the best when it comes to turbo sazae. The meat is tender and bittersweet. I can't hold back any longer, so I'm going to take this out today! Ready! Ta-da! The silver one! Factory-fresh version! It's a special Super Dry that comes out once a month! I can't wait for it to be released on the last Friday of every month! I can only sleep at night. It's a great corporate effort by Asahi to have it manufactured on Tuesdays and released on Fridays! This month it will be released on the 29th of July! I hope you'll all buy it! Yes, this one is 7 to 3. Itadakimasu. Delicious! This dry taste goes well with seafood dishes. The moment you drink it, it's so satisfying and crisp. I think it's about time for Haliotis. Oh, nice! It hasn't shrunk at all. Haliotis steak. Let's go around here. Itadakimasu. Delicious! It tastes like it's been raised on a diet of good seaweed. It's so good! Now, let's get to the sashimi! This sashimi is quite a masterpiece! The theme of this sashimi is summer. The sunflowers are a high point, aren't they? These are sunflowers I grew from seeds in my house! I loaded them up today. And first of all, here's the white trevally that was still alive in the tank! Let's eat! Put a little wasabi on it. Itadakimasu. Delicious! White trevally is a delicious fish, isn't it? It is different from kanpachi, yellowtail and horse mackerel. There is this White trevally deliciousness. Now, here is a natural kuruma prawn! Itadakimasu. Delicious! This is completely silver! Kuuuuuuu! Delicious! This Super Dry makes the food taste even better! It goes so well with the food! Let's try Haliotis next! This Soy sauce on top! Itadakimasu. So soft! kurro haliotis is so tender, isn't it? Let's try the scallops! The scallops have a different texture here, and they're delicious. Delicious! Next, let's go to the nodoguro. Nodoguro! Put a lot of wasabi on it! You can put this much wasabi on a fish as fatty as nodoguro. Itadakimasu. Delicious! Well, you can't miss the nodoguro. It's delicious with that much fat. Let's go to the lobster next. Itadakimasu. Delicious! I've got to say... raw sashimi is the way to go with lobsters. I've tried many things, but this is the best. Let's go crab. Crab! A big female crab. People who eat sotoko also eat sotoko. Some do eat but, I don't like them much. Look at this. This is what it looks like when the sotoko come out. This is what I wanted you all to see. So I recommend buying males in the summer. It's a little squashy, isn't it? They're cheap, though. So it's good to make soup stock with female crabs in this season. Like miso soup. But we have a lot of them! Itadakimasu. Delicious! The taste is excellent! But I made too much this time. It's so much that I have to call Taniyan. My family is coming this time. I want to eat it with everyone! Thank you for the blessings of the sea! Thank you for the food! I made lunch today, buying only the seafood I liked, with no limit. It turned out to be really gorgeous! I felt a sense of accomplishment when I was making it. And it tastes so good! Cooking is wonderful, isn't it? It's really fun! And this is my favorite! Factory-fresh taste packs! It's already becoming a theme, isn't it? When I drink this, I feel that the end of the month has come. The packaging changed last month. It's so cool! The new package is even more attractive! This factory-made pack is manufactured on the last Tuesday of every month and released on the last Friday of each month. This month it will be released on the 29th of July! You can enjoy it at home on the last Friday of the month It is the best Super Dry to enjoy at a barbecue with your family and friends! I hope you guys will try it too! Thanks for watching today! Bye Bye!