We're trying Dunkin' Donuts Let's talk about that. ((Intro Music)) Good Mythical Morning. Quick announcement, week of season 24. It's always bittersweet season, but do not fret, in the weeks after. That's right, we're gonna of episodes and a batch of couple of weeks, Mondays, Now, all the way back in bunch of Dunkin' Donuts from course we guessed where via dart. But so many doughnutty since then, so how could We couldn't. It's time for - [Both] Where in the World Do These Come From? Part 2. ((Music)) - [Stevie] Okay boys, eat what's in front of at the map to guess where And Chase the &quot;Would You Like is going to measure how I like your Oh, thank you. I've got some new shorts. Oh nice. These are my cappuccinos. Oh, dang, get it? Get it y'all? Would you like some These things are so effortless. We would love some Oh, of course. And while Chase is pouring that coffee, Stevie just 25, maybe you could just ((Laughing)) - [Stevie] Okay. Sure, I'll try, I'll in a future episode. What about fellers? Okay, fellers. - [Stevie] Alright, I'll put some more And of course. Duderinos. - [Stevie] Well, don't push it. Because America runs on run laps around the studio in Good Mythical More. And Link, since you lost last advantage options this time. Of course, the Veto used in three games. Why should it? - [Stevie] Or you can use the Uh, shoe dart, that is. Which allows you to place you want to on the map. That's pretty powerful. I suggest potentially And look at this, it is It's a Dunkin' Donuts, well, collaboration. Oh, wow. The coloring? Did we tell Fila? No. Not a sponsor. - [Stevie] So you can go ahead I feel guilty not using this. - [Stevie] First donut. Link, I'm gonna cut it for you. And me. Oh, did you see Oh my gosh. Did you see that? - [Link] Oh, gross. Is that the mouth of a? You get that side. That's all, all the chocolate Since these are from all over or recreated by the kitchen? - [Stevie] Recreated Man, that's so. Oh goodness. Chocolatey. Oh, that's good. Going everywhere. I think it's just With potato chips on top. But the potato chips Specifically what? Pringles. They are Pringles. But we don't know if. I'm gonna There's a question you're collab, like our collab with Right. For that, or is it that Trevor could find? You wanna go for a Turkiye? I'm gonna go with That it is Pringles. So where are Pringles enjoyed? Probably worldwide. I'm pulled towards Canada and I'm equally pulled towards Oh, I'm pulled a So I'm gonna go Philippines. Or. He's feeling the &quot;pines&quot; Too high, too high, too high. I disagree with your use the Veto Cheeto. I am feeling, not the &quot;pines&quot; But I'm being There's nothing wild about it. I mean, it's a very solid chips scattered on it. It really could be anywhere. Not even really placed, But why am I going for a that is on such an Because that's what Follow your gut. And I gotta listen to it, Australia. Hello. Hello, boys. Hello, duderinos. There you go. Oh, dang. That almost, It was as if there was Hey, Chase, did you blow? No. Did you create a nor'easter? I think Chase So weak. Chase, you poured Hey, would you like Yeah. - [Stevie] You just had a The pillow shaped doughnut by Trevor and chocolate is topped with original and was available for a where trendy and eye catching South Korea. Oh! - [Link] Man. You lucked into it. That's right, I ((Laughing)) I lucked into it. You really did. What do you mean? Why do you say it? I felt, the thing talking about the Philippines and the United Kingdom, the happening was that I was like a bad guess and that makes guesses and two countries that got lucky on the high throw. All right, Rhett, you had 6. That's not many. You had 33. I'd like to veto that. Too late! Too late! - [Chase] Sorry. ((Laughing)) ((Music)) An orange one with. It's a Halloween donut. It's got, or just a fall donut. Yeah, but kind of strange. - [Chase] Before you take a some coffee with that? - [Link] No, thank you. Pumpkins on top. Oh, that's an orange icing. Yeah, it's not pumpkin at all. It is super citrusy. Oh, man. And then that gumdrop thingy, You didn't even eat it. Well, I ate enough of it. Not pumpkin at all. But then it's pumpkin on top. Which is confusing, right? Because if it tasted be like, Canada. Why? Because I don't really know the fall outside of America. Like, this is almost Like, the orange, the like, oh, do they bring out the world around the fall? I don't think so. I think that's kind of like a But when it's orange, though, Right. The flavor, I mean. So does that send us to the the way down to Australia? Maybe it's somebody who's donut, but then they their wires crossed. It's not and then you're kind of in I think that actually, to where I was in the Also, both of There are two countries So I'm gonna kind Philippines and Australia. Oh, almost hit the. - [Link] Oh man, you're getting close to I think this could be Turkey, I think of the color orange. Why's that Link? Like. I don't know, I think that's I don't know. Spanish soil is orange? Bring in the paint, cause I'm Wow, we have an early This is unprecedented. I'm spanning Maybe trying to get a little - [Rhett] Wow, you're gonna cover three But I do not think that you I am not feeling the &quot;pines&quot;. Oh, and then what's Would you like some No, thank you. Let me taste Chase's coffee. Watch out, you're dripping. Off the back. Did that go on you? - [Link] Do you want to spot me by - [Chase] Sure, yeah. - [Link] So I'm gonna go this way. And then I'm gonna stay right here. Thanks, Rhett. And then. I used my cool beans. You get it? Yeah, and then you take that. There you go. There you go. Good job! - [Rhett] You don't even have to move. This is really, Chase is And then I'm gonna I am on the clock. And now, yeah, I did Alright, so now. - [Rhett] Is it washable? - [Link] Watch your, I'll just Now you get one press, Oh, Hey. Oh, come on. ((Laughing)) What? Are you serious? I mean, that's not that bad. You almost got Spain. You almost got Spain. Hey, that was it. That was it. Where's the rest of the shoe? That was it, man. I think it's because Yeah, it was your angle. Should have gone high. Stevie. - [Stevie] Okay. I did get a little Oh, but it matches. Yeah, it kind of looks cool. - [Stevie] You just had the It's an orange glazed donut on top released as part of for Halloween this year - [Link] Oh, right. - [Rhett] Dang it. - [Link] And if the paint would I would have gotten zero. Yeah, true. You tried to cover it. Because I literally, the shoe Don't complain too much, was a good round for you. I'm not complaining, Alright, Rhett, you had 41. Oh, that's a lot. Link. Gosh, I'm making it worse. Oh, oh, oh. - [Chase] Sorry about that. Would you like some Shouldn't have done that. You probably want to put Link, you got 6. Oh, good! Oh! But my shoe is Yep. Paint the whole ((Music)) But before I cut this, Just say, like, okay donut in front of you. I just want to - [Stevie] Okay men, there's a purple Strange. I kind of liked it. It's like a sign Purple donut? Purple donut. With a little bit Whoa. What's going on here? What is that? You think it'd go I'd say. You got any cream? No, I, no I don't, I'm sorry. Dang it. It's not really sweet. - [Rhett] It's unusual. It's very cakey. It's unusual, Link. You're in the lead, you have I took the lead? Yeah, man. I got, like, a lot I'll be danged. It's very flowery. Like, the white stuff you turn Not like something Got it. It's like flour. It has a consistency of coconut in it, because What is that? Is it taro? This might be Which I believe is purple. I think they're putting things in Ethiopia. Also Turkiye Maybe a little bit of Spain. I don't know. I'm in that area. My guess is Ethiopia. But my throw is gonna Which might make it Well this is. Turkiye I'm excited. For one. Here we go. Oh yeah. I accept that. Wow. It spun. From this angle? What happened? My quarterback days. Well, you've, interestingly, dart sideways, you've see Turkiye anymore. How did that happen? Which was going It's like I threw See, I think it tastes You know, but like, the It is nutty. A little bit nutty. The closest thing I can track might be on like a baklava. So you're thinking Yeah, but, can I get closer? What if I hit your dart? What happens then? I ever done that before? I get to put it Well your dart, I'm not It's not a shuffleboard. But I'm really trying to aim where your dart is and try Oh! Way high, way high. Like Michelle Obama. Yep. When the Link goes Stevie, before you, some coffee with that? - [Stevie] Yeah, kind of. Thanks. Yeah, go ahead. You guys just had an Ube Oh man. - [Stevie] A chocolate donut combining and ube-y flavors. Thank you, Chase. Philippines. - [Stevie] Oh, you hear that? ((Coffee Pouring)) ((Laughing)) So satisfying. - [Stevie] Both ube and this donut Oh, you didn't feel the &quot;pines&quot;. Yes, the purple ube. You can get that ube Oh, &quot;bae&quot;. I think we were both Alright, Rhett, 31. Link, 35. A close game. A close game. ((Music)) Today is a very special day. As you can see, I've been Face pin, which is our You know, we've been doing 2024, where you have 24 soft enamel pin with a Now, today is extra special. Yes, there's yours. Rhett, did you say 2024? Yeah. 2024. ((Laughing)) It was 2023. You're already in next year. I'm always in the future. We've been doing it for 2023. But today is even more special said, oh man, I wasn't, I I forgot about that one. That was sold And so we, in addition the Christmas face We're selling every single pin from the Month program is Take your pick. Anyone you missed or if you them as gifts or whatever, He just told you, you Yeah, right. 24 hours in 2023. And also, this right the bulletin board. The cork display board. To put them all on. There you go. Mythical.com. 24 hours only. Now let's see if I can take a little crap for us. Four centimeters Celebrate. Hey, don't celebrate You're only up by Watch out, I don't I don't want to cut you. That one didn't take a crap. This is a good looking On the inside, I think What do we have? Man, that's. - [Link] Yep. This is. Oh, there's more Chocolate white icing. Crushed walnuts. That's just a solid donut. Not a lot to go on here. You're still up, Link. You're still in the lead. I could be feeling the it's now been taken. Yeah, well, feel It's good to, it's fun to say. Because it's such an You know, nuts, chocolate, caramel, it's pulling Canada or Australia. Yeah, that's exactly what So, whatever one you pick one and that will be the, I'm gonna tell you right completely in your hands. If you go Australia, If you go Canada, I go Should I trust it? That's a promise I'm not going to copy you. I'm letting you decide. I'm going the opposite. Because you're right. It is one of those two. Okay. So the thing that I'm Winning or losing the game. Thinking about what my second close to India and Ethiopia, Canada is close to I want to say Canada telling me Australia. But it already told me my heart betrayed me. At the very beginning. This is awesome. So that sends me Oh! And then I start thinking. ((Laughing)) But should I give my I want to be the type about second chances. Be kind to yourself. And I want, I want to be Science says if you makes you feel better. And if you hug your own body. Yeah. Oh. Parasympathetic nervous Something like that? I don't know, I My heart's sending Oh! And I, and you Oh, I swear to you, if you're I'm gonna do everything Oh, that's low. It's okay, though. You've left the door open. That was bad. That was bad, wasn't it? Shoot. I'm a man of my word. Just a bad throw. Have some coffee Chase is here to help. Hug yourself. Hug yourself. Okay, watch out, Link. I'd love some cream, but. I should be able to hit Canada. I really should be able to. - [Link] There it is. - [Rhett] Did I actually hit red? Did it hit red? - [Link] Only the most. Chase, we're this up to you because of Canada, but it's - [Link] I don't think you hit. So that's a no. ((Laughing)) - [Link] Yep, that's a no. You got to measure to the dot. But if he would have hit measure to the dot, right? It doesn't matter. - [Chase] Correct, yeah. Okay. It doesn't really matter. - [Stevie] You just had a Delirium Donut. It's a yeast donut filled that resembles Dulce de Leche, icing, pecans, and caramel. Manjar blanco filled desserts speaking countries, but Oh! Link, it was all It wasn't caramel. It was like, - [Stevie] There's Link, you had 59. Rhett, 30. Oh, hey, hey, listen. It's not over. It's not over. ((Music)) Wow, that is an 25 centimeters, say celebrate the leaders. You wanna celebrate. Do you have a feeling You could. I could, yeah. Oh, and there is something. Oh, there is a layer. There's a layer of chocolate. It's like a Cookie least colored donut. I've never had a donut on the outside like that. I like it. It's very cushiony. What happened to your donut? Did you dissect it? I'm trying to figure out Alright, Link, I've So little to go on here. Yep. There's not any of, that's just blue. Blue's not a flavor. Traditional marshmallows of horses and cows. Horses and cows You can grind down a hoof There is no country where So, what did we There's no country where That's right, Chase. Would you like Would you like some coffee Oh. - [Link] What are you going for? Well, I was not trying I was trying to go between and the countries of Asia. If this is South American, I think if it's No, West African. Then I could win. I was gonna guess Japan, side of the map for me. I haven't seen The chocolate on the inside in its own right. But again, you can I've been told. Yep. I've heard that. Falkland Islands. - [Rhett] See if you can hit it. I just wanted to say it If you can. I'm going for South America. If you can get Falkland it, you win the whole thing. I'm not doing that. Okay. I'm going for South America. I think I have a chance. There we go. A little high, that'll work. - [Rhett] Well, if it's America, Can I do it? - [Stevie] You just had a This donut is Topped with blue sugar, It's fun, fluffy, and can be cloudy country of Austria. My, Austria? Or Australia? Austria. Cloudy, it's so cloudy there. Oh my gosh. Nougat, I should've A marshmallowy chocolate. But that wouldn't Yeah. Rhett, 22. Link, 26. Well, that means I could - [Stevie] And you're doing a lot of That's right. Thanks for subscribing You know what time it is. I'm Devin and it's I'm Eric and it's We're playing the in Nashville, Tennessee. And it's time to spin You can grind hooves the game everywhere. Click the top link to relationship advice than And to find out Mythicality's gonna land. - [Rhett] Ho, ho, hold up! It's Mythical Pin Day! Shop December's Pin of the Plus any pin that you may limited time only at Mythical.com.