A few months ago, I spotted something weird. For once it wasn't a mirror, but rather It's on a page called the "List of rulers I found myself here exactly one year as this page is linked to on the Prince of Wales article, a page that's so bad that I had just made a 20-minute video attempting to correct it. a mental note of the usual issues I was dates for things we have no evidence whilst labelled as being in the wrong location, unusual spellings, uncommon translations, and... Huh, a man named Anwn Ddu, someone that I'd never heard of, and someone that it doesn't seem many other people have heard of either. Now this article, and especially this section, are not perfect by any means, but our doubt helped by the ominous glowing red text: &quot;page does not exist&quot;, oddly foreshadowing. He's been in the back of my head time for me to tell you about my journey with Wikipedia's king who... doesn't actually exist. So first, how did I know something was wrong? The only reason that this man stood out to me at all, was not simply because he was there. I didn't know a lot about the kings in South Wales at this time, and if this name simply stood on its own, I wouldn't have noticed it. But it's accompanied by a long description, the longest of any person on this article, of this state in South Wales, but also of Now, at the time I'd also just done a I'd just spent 8 weeks reading their entire could get access to that covered this dynasty, and I had never seen a king named Anwn Ddu come up even once. No historians mentioned So, I decided to do some digging. 'A History of Wales'? Didn't mention him. T. Charles-Edwards's 'Wales Peter Bartrum's colossal 'Welsh Classical place called Llanwnda [3], not what I was looking for. So I shelved it. I made a note on my phone to remind me that it existed, What? He doesn't exist, he I've never seen this name in my entire life. now. I didn't forget about him forever, about a month ago I finally revisited the page, saw this man once again, and remembered both that he existed, and also that he didn't. And I decided once again to try [Sponsor] Before we continue, I want to really quickly talk about the sponsor that makes this video possible: Opera. Opera has released the latest version of their browser, with a totally redesigned look, and a brand-new functionality. Opera is engineered to provide you with a smooth browsing experience, it comes with a free VPN and adblocker, allowing you to upgrade your browsing privacy. It comes with dedicated players and messengers, letting you have quick access to all your favourite music and messaging apps, right at your fingertips. When doing research for long videos like this one, I tend to have a ton of tabs open at once, for multiple topics, and it can become really difficult to keep track of everything, which is why I love Opera's new feature of tab islands. With tab islands, all of my unorganised tabs can be grouped up, moved around, collapsed, expanded, allowing me to keep track of everything, and focus on the tabs that are actually important. Opera also comes with a browser AI, 'Aria', which has access to the internet, giving it up-to-date information. And by using the Opera browser's command line tool, you can quickly and easily ask Aria a question. Enhance your browsing experience today by trying out the latest version of the Opera browser via the link in the description, or in the pinned comment. Thank you. [End of sponsor] I was on Wikipedia, so I thought there But no, there was nothing. bottom barely lives up to that name, we have a translation of a primary source from 1835, I checked inside, and found nothing. We have 'A History of Wales' by John Edward Lloyd from 1911, an important work, but one that was written before my great grandparents were alive. Regardless, Anwn Ddu isn't in here either. The Dictionary of Welsh Biography, also nothing. Finally the Encyclopaedia of Wales, but as you've seen so far, and will soon see even more, I'm certain that Anwn Ddu isn't in here. So now what? I felt like I hit a dead end, again! But do you remember towards the start of this video, I noted how there were a few expected mistakes littered across the page: names, and dates, and the very occasional odd spelling. So what occurred to me was that maybe Anwn, isn't supposed to be spelt like that. revisit the historian Peter Bartrum's work, a huge collection of Welsh figures from before the year 1000, and to scroll through all the "A" names until I hopefully found something [1]. And eventually, I did. On the very bottom of page 20, I found: Annun Ddu, &quot;a n N U n&quot; [2]. I'd found him, Annun Ddu, Annun "the he wasn't at all what the Wikipedia page said he was. Bartrum notes here that he's just recorded as a distant ancestor who was active in the early 400s just a But curiously, Bartrum notes his name in these genealogies as: Annhun rex Grecorum, and Annun regis Grecorum. Annun... king of Greece [2]. Gwent, Dyfed, and Greece? And to be honest this wasn't the weirdest part, because as I said this man has nothing to do with Dyfed or Gwent, why Finally, I'd found the man, finally, after first up with more questions than I started with. And I didn't know it yet, but this single name, in bright red text, was a lot I decided that, if the modern page didn't have any sources connected to our missing some when the name was first added. It was a long shot, but I wanted to know how Annun got here in the first place anyways, so I went looking for the edit that first caught my eye: when was Anwn Ddu, the king of Gwent, added to this page? On the 20th of June 2017, the article looked like this. It's a fairly decent list, it's missing a few earlier figures, but I'd honestly say this one is more accurate than the current one. Regardless, 6 days later our man appears... sort of. Because that: Anwn ap Macsen Wledig, is not what the modern entry says. The current entry and claims that Annun was appointed by the uh, "Emporer", Magnus Maximus, but the 2017 article says he was his son. Well, I went back to Bartrum, and sure Welsh for Annun son of Magnus Maximus (one of the many usurping Roman emperors) [11]. He appears as "Anthun" in a single genealogy from here, on the Isle of Man [9][2], whilst Annun Ddu only appears as an ancestor to a king here in Brycheiniog [2][10], so why is he now listed as a king of both Gwent and Dyfed? Well, one of those was much easier to lay within the genealogies of the kings of Dyfed. You see, they are really, really weird. Like all medieval Welsh genealogies, they claim descent from a whole bunch of Roman figures, such as emperors, or in Dyfed's case just random titles like 'Protectoris', 'Stator', and my personal favourite: "Cupbearer and Mixer" [7], all one name. But the most unusual name in Dyfed's pedigree is right here: a supposed son of Magnus Dyfed isn't a personal name, so historians such as Bartrum and Wade-Evans have suggested that perhaps this man is really Magnus Maximus's other son: Anthun, and that he was given the nickname "Dyfed", or the older "Dimet" because he controlled this region for his father [5]. Regardless of if this is true of not, this does appear to be where the Wikipedia article has gotten this information from, as they then list a couple of Dyfed ap Macsen's descendants until finally arriving at an actual king of Dyfed, and the reason I never saw this name, is because the author subscribes to this theory that Dyfed ap Macsen is really Anthun ap Macsen, or Annun, and then conflated him with another man entirely from the other side of the country: Annun Ddu. Finally, mystery solved, I wasn't of reasoning here, even if it's flawed. This gets weirder. Because we've mentioned a lot of places so far, but do you remember Gwent? The kingdom that started this whole chapter, and this entire video? How does Annun Ddu, or Anthen, or whoever, fit into here? Also, remember he was called the king of Greece? I will admit, this took me a The original draft of this video with frustration that I have no idea But I think I finally If we move down this list, we encounter who is another man listed in that genealogy of the kings of Dyfed [7], and then his supposed son Dyfnwal, who is not in the Dyfed genealogy. attach to the kingdom of Gwent? No. in modern day Scotland, he isn't attached to Annun or Magnus Maximus until a much later manuscript [6], for reasons that we don't fully understand. claims that he's the father of a man named Ynyr, who was an actual king of Gwent. So we have Magnus, his son Annun, his A later manuscript that gives But Dyfnwal doesn't have a This was a dead end for a while no sources ever mentioned who Ynyr's father was, and nobody connected him to Dyfnwal, or Annun [8]. Eventually, I decided the best course of on all 9 of Dyfnwal's sons, hoping to somehow find a connection to Gwent, because surely the author of the article didn't just make it up? sentence, about the very last son, Deingr [4], that a man named Iolo Morgannwg claimed that Deingr's father, Dyfnwal, was a king of Gwent. Unfortunately for us, Iolo Morgannwg was of British history. He famously faked a in one collection of them I finally found never replicated in any of the old texts, Anwn Ddu is listed as the first king of Gwent, because an old source adopted a random man from Ystrad Clud as his grandson, a man who centuries later, would be a victim to one of dozens of forgeries, claiming that he was really a Finally, this is why Anwn Ddu is here, an amalgamation of several different of 3 different states in South Wales, to which only one of them is he actually connected to. Except of course, here he's Surprisingly, this was much easier to find than the other two. You see, Annun Ddu does appear in one other place than as an ancestor to the kings of Brycheiniog: he shows up in one of my favourite genealogies ever, unceremoniously known as the 16th entry in the Harleian Genealogies [2]. It's the ancestry for an unknown line of kings somewhere in modern day Scotland [9], and there are two things that I find so fascinating about it: First, it is the only known time in this kingdom traced their origins to a pre-Roman figure [note 1], in this case a man named Caractacus. They even record his father and grandfather, who were later found through coin evidence! Secondly, they also attempted to claim descendance from literally every single Roman emperor. And one of these Romans is our man This may seem a little unusual, but what makes it stranger is that he's paired with someone else. As this document claims descendance Antun Ddu and Cleopatra. Antony, Marcus Antonius, Julius Caesar's general who was one of erupted across the Roman empire And what part of the Empire did he rule Greece. Antonius, to Antun Ddu, claimed as a Roman ancestor to the kings of Brycheiniog, and unceremoniously combined with another man named Annun who was claimed as the ancestor of the kings of Dyfed for a Wikipedia Couple this with an elaborate hoax from 200 years ago, attaching one of the oldest kings of Gwent to this very same Annun, and then we have the recipe for a mistake in an article that's been over 1000 years in the making. Annun Ddu isn't a real figure, he isn't a son of Valerian, and Cleopatra didn't give birth to Aurelian. He isn't the same Annun as the son of Magnus Maximus, and he certainly isn't really the great grandfather of the kings of Gwent. He didn't rule Dyfed, he didn't rule Gwent, but that didn't stop people from mixing, whether it was by a genealogist in the 800s, or a forger in the 1800s, or by a well-meaning editor on the 4th of January, 2019.