Hello friends When the new orchid wither all flowers This is the best time to cut flowers to help them sprout faster Peel off the protective film so that the buds will germinate faster Cut back the branch with a sharp knife so as not to crush the cut Pour melted candle solution into the cut to help the cut heal quickly and not rot Sprinkle cinnamon powder on the freshly cut wound at the base to help protect the orchid from rot Use 1 large garlic clove or 2 small garlic cloves hash small put the garlic in the jar Pour in 500ml of water at room temperature Wait 30 minutes for the nutrients from the garlic to dissolve into the water Use foam to arrange flowers After soaking for 30 minutes, filter out the residue Soak orchid branches in garlic water for 30 minutes 30 minutes later take out plug in the sucker Pour in filtered water just enough to moisten Close the lid and wait for the orchid branch to sprout After the next 3 weeks sprouts have woken up AFTER 1 NEXT MONTH The orchid sprouts have grown and the roots have grown AFTER THE NEXT 2 MONTHS The small orchid has grown healthy. Now let's plant pots so that the orchid can adapt to the outside environment. In my hand is a withered orchid branch. And in this video I will share so you can propagate from any orchid branch. We cut off the spots that have bloomed. Just keep these 3 segments and the orchid can sprout. Applying candle solution to the cut will help protect the orchid from rotting. Peel off the protective film of the sleeping sprouts Use 1 chopped fresh ginger branch Boil 500 ml of water and wait 1 day After 1 day, take it out and filter to remove residue. Soak orchids in ginger water for 30 minutes. Soak the moss in ginger water for 30 minutes. I use recycled plastic boxes to make miniature greenhouses to help propagate orchids faster There's a vent here Place the orchid in a miniature greenhouse and spray it with moisture once a week Place in a bright place, away from direct sunlight 21 DAYS LATER. Continue misting to keep it moist and keep it in a cool, well-lit place, away from direct sunlight. AFTER NEXT 1O DAYS Continue misting to moisturize and leave in a well-lit place, avoiding direct sunlight AFTER NEXT 2 WEEKS Plant in a pot so the orchid can adapt and grow in the outside environment. If you find it interesting, please subscribe to the channel, like, and share so more people know. Remember to plant the base higher than the pot to prevent the orchid from rotting When the orchid has just lost all its flowers, it is the best time to propagate from the flower stem. Buttons that have bloomed cannot be propagated. So I cut off the nodes that have finished blooming. Repair the cut to avoid crushing the flower stem. Sprinkle cinnamon powder on the cut to help it heal quickly and prevent rot. Leave for 1 day for the cut to dry completely. 1 Day Later. Peel off the protective film on the flower button. This helps baby orchids easily germinate. Now I use tomatoes to revive young orchids from flower stems. Tomatoes contain many important nutrients such as nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K), are essential factors to promote the growth of orchids. Then you tie the tomato core to this position to awaken the baby orchid sprouts to revive. This helps baby orchids quickly revive from flower stalks. Leave for about 30 minutes for the nutrients to penetrate into the flower stem. After 30 minutes, remove it. Then insert the flower stem into the sponge. Place in a transparent jar. And pour a little water to always have the right humidity for the baby orchids to revive. Cover with transparent plastic and keep in a cool place. 3 weeks later. The flower branches have begun to revive the baby orchids. Continue to put it in the vase and place it in a cool place for the baby orchids to grow. After the next 1 month. Baby orchids have formed from flower stems. The baby orchids also take root at the same time. Both the small orchid and its roots are healthy. Continue to put it in the vase and place it in a cool place for the baby orchids to grow. After the next 2 months. This simple method helps baby orchids grow very healthily. Now plant them in pots so they can grow outside. If you find it interesting, please like, share and subscribe to the channel to support me. I have created subtitles in many different languages so you can choose the appropriate language. Thank you for watching the video. Good luck and see you in the next videos.