- [Joanna] Laptops, water, devastation. (dramatic music) Now, if you were the you'd probably first cry and then you'd immediately And that's exactly what The company and many others restricts how and where in a variety of ways. Apple says this is to make safe and reliable repair services. But now some elected wanna give you more choices, what's generally called This doesn't mean you have with your own tools. This is also about making including independent repair That doesn't look good. - This doesn't look good The worst part is over here. - Oh boy. The Fair Repair Act, which was introduced in Congress in June would require original to make available certain documentation, diagnostic and repair information Over 20 states have introduced none have been enacted yet. So what does this all mean, and would this really help you, the hopeless person with a broken gadget? Yes, it probably would. Certainly my journey to showed it could save Let's first talk about these two machines. This is a 13 inch 2017 MacBook Pro, which at the time cost $1,400. The second, a 2020 MacBook Both I grabbed from my IT department and were marked as having water damage. I promise you I did not to break them. So I packed them up and Since they were out of warranty, and I don't have AppleCare Plus, which covers accidental damage. I walked out of the store, pretty sad, 799 to fix the Air, 999 to fix the Pro. And the genius I spoke I just buy some new machines instead. Shocker. Then Mike's Tech Shop, an authorized Apple service It sends the laptops and it adds its own labor charge, $870 for the Air, 1,170 for the Pro. Yeah, Nope. Plus both of those five to seven days for the repair. That's when I decided to go to a shop that doesn't have any such as Rossman Repair. The owner, Louis Rossman about the right to repair. - The only option is to go to Apple and to have this three or $4,000 device fixed by them for 1500 dollars. - [Joanna] He's also got where he often criticizes champions the right to repair and shares his opinion on various topics. - It's really important that what we're asking - [Joanna] His price but a no go on the Air because he didn't have Another independent very similar pricing. So let's think about this for a second, 999 at Apple or 325 at Rossman Repair. I think it's pretty simple. An Apple spokesman said, we believe the safest is one handled by a trained technician using Apple genuine parts, and we continue to to better meet our customer's needs. He added that Apple would for a repair like this, which But to really understand wants to change things, I had to see what was happening Here's the first one, it's - The big deal is that is right next to where - Translation, the water cause And it's around components just three little things, but Rossman still thought it had a chance. - So let's see if this one because it doesn't look like is too bad. It is gonna, this is - That's not what filing Now, two things really made this repair possible for Rossman. One, he had the extra parts to He got them from what boards from old systems Two, he had schematics and board views. These are basically maps so he can figure out what is what, except these documents aren't provided to Rossman and others get these documents, which are often leaked from from sites on the internet. That's part of what the right So Apple doesn't give you any of these. - No, and I can't get access to it as a third party repair center. And if you become an you still can't get access - And was this originally Is this like something Apple put together? - Yeah, it says right in the bottom of it, it says over here, notice this information contained herein is the proprietary property - An Apple spokesperson has an independent which provides access tools, training, service and resources to perform a variety of out of warranty repairs. He added that the company has found individual chip replacements which is why it replaces However Rossman and others does not provide schematics or board views and many specific parts that make repairs more After about 15 minutes of work, we were ready to see if it had been fixed. It's on. - It is on and it's charging. - Okay, that was the MacBook Pro. But what about that MacBook Air? - No. - Rossman have access to for that specific MacBook Air, - This one, even if I did you know, it doesn't really of being repairable, but when you combine the with the fact that I don't I need to do my job, I - Why don't you have the - Because I can't find the board view because it's not available. I have to wait for someone at Apple or one of these factories and risk their job or to one of those websites - He also said that getting aren't available yet to him. So to recap, this 13 inch I even wrote this script on it This MacBook Air, well, my only choice is and pay them 799 to fix it, or I can buy a completely which really doesn't seem And that's what the right Giving us more choices Tech companies and argue that that choice and data security and put companies' intellectual property at risk. What do you want to see the - I'd like to see it have the teeth to be able to do the bare minimum, which is get us access to and to be able to buy these chips. It's odd to be a computer repairman and feel like the kid in high school that was selling weed of the lunch bathroom. - The future of all this now or in this case, maybe it should be in the who should consider liquid proofing. - You can tell when based on the fact that they