John Lennon's time in this world was far from In fact, his personal life was a nearly unending cast upon him by cruel fates, others caused So let's dig deep into the dark underbelly Lennon had a strained relationship with his mother Julia in 1944, four years after John As a result, John has said that he never really much until he became famous, at which point But it doesn't sound like the reunion went As John explained in a 1966 interview, &quot;I saw him and spoke to him, and decided I In 1965, the Beatles were on top of the world, discovered Alfred working at a pub. Cartwright shaped Alfred, who was a talented to turn him into a recording artist. Unfortunately, his debut album didn't sit manager Brian Epstein to do all that he could Whether Epstein used his industry clout to soon over, and his record never charted. John only ever saw his father one more time, and screamed at him. Alfred died in 1975, and John eventually expressed better. The aptly named dairy farmer George Toogood and indeed, he was too good for this world. For most of his childhood, Lennon lived with wife and Lennon's aunt. A father figure and a profound influence for the Beatle-in-the-making to read, paint, and He even bought him a musical instrument, a Unfortunately, the good times weren't meant In 1955, the 52-year-old Smith collapsed at Smith's good name hasn't been lost to history, his grave was lovingly restored and unveiled celebrations. Oddly enough, Smith's demise may have inspired way. The churchyard that Smith was buried in also Rigby. Both Lennon and Paul McCartney frequented that he made up the name and the character, picked up the name from the gravestone. One of the worst moments in Lennon's life Julia died in a freak accident. Although the future superstar lived with his She was supportive of his musical endeavors So imagine the 17-year-old Lennon's shock was run over by an off-duty policeman when She died instantly. The police officer was neither speeding nor been. The tragic incident had a deeply traumatizing As for the officer, he eventually realized very well-known person and Lennon's fame ensured accident. He ultimately resigned and became a postman, family home of Paul McCartney. Thus, he now had to haul hundreds of fan letters killed. Some memories, it seems, are inescapable, Lennon's son from his first marriage, Julian, and world-improving tendencies. After all, he's a photographer, musician, in his own right. However, he doesn't particularly appreciate In a 1998 interview with The Telegraph, he about peace on earth, yet had no love for From Julian's viewpoint, John was a fairly of a family that was eventually torn apart However, Julian's animosity towards his father He says he's on good terms with his half-brother, about keeping in touch than Julian does. He also has respect for Sean's mom, Yoko Ono, &quot;There was a great deal of anger there, but and there's been forgiveness since then.&quot; John Lennon liked his drugs, and one particular that it may have played a part in breaking In 1969, he was addicted to heroin, at the already straining the Fab Four. This was an era when opioid addiction was in increasing alarm as Lennon and Yoko Ono as something much more far-out than they were Lennon attributes the couple's heroin use in 1968, though others have insinuated that He's also claimed that heroin was his way unwillingness to accept Ono as an equal. Regardless, Lennon's heroin use and the mood after a nasty car accident in Scotland. By the time the band started recording their had to be careful around Lennon because of They were also uncharacteristically unwilling on hand in the studio, as they could also The Beatles didn't last long after Abbey Road's quit heroin. Lennon might have been an esteemed artist his private life, he could be a violent man. Unfortunately, this violence very much extended his youth. In a 1980 Playboy interview, he almost casually abuser, having hit his ex-wife Cynthia. He said that the Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band track &quot;Getting &quot;being cruel to my woman,&quot; beating her, and loved&quot; was about himself. As he put it, &quot;I was a hitter. I couldn't express myself and I hit.&quot; Lennon also expressed that he sincerely believed man, and that he was genuinely regretful of Still, his history of domestic abuse is a fan. What's more, some have wondered whether Lennon's Julian. Julian himself has neither confirmed nor denied he considers his father a hypocrite who never he was preaching to everyone else. &quot;I can say, 'Think peace, think peace,' but In the summer of 1973, Lennon's marriage with The couple were reeling from the commercial Some Time in New York City. Ono has said that the constant hate their She wanted a break from the idea that she Lennon as well. Her solution was to set her husband up with The couple had an assistant named May Pang, attracted to, so she proposed that the pair Unfortunately, Lennon's vision of the affair He and Pang ran off to Los Angeles, where which included drinking heavily and generally before he and Ono decided to start anew in While Lennon completed no less than three weekend,&quot; the creative process was usually It probably didn't help that one album, 1975's Phil Spector, who often turned up in outlandish ceiling. Lennon's most famous foils might've been his war. But he had two other adversaries who were Nixon and the FBI. Around 1971, the Bureau took a dislike to waging a five-year war against him. The federal file on Lennon was opened when of the White Panthers, who had recently been two marijuana joints. Fortunately for Sinclair, he was soon released. But unfortunately for Lennon, his appearance which was a really bad place to be for someone The American government harassed Lennon for trying to deport him on a semi-regular basis. According to the book Gimme Some Truth: The a hand in this, as he thought Lennon's political In the end, however, Lennon was able to weather When the Watergate scandal brought Nixon to the pressure against Lennon eased up, and card. &quot;I don't expect to be, you know, hassled, Or Czechoslovakia. Then I'd expect it.&quot; The Beatles probably aren't the first group Nevertheless, Lennon was once accused of getting The song of his that drew plagiarism accusations Road and one of the Fab Four's most famous According to the lawsuit by music producer from Chuck Berry's 1956 song &quot;You Can't Catch While Lennon did admit that he drew inspiration had actually just slowed down &quot;You Can't Catch Allegedly, Lennon even stole some of the lyrics, Lennon's version goes, &quot;Here come ol' flattop, he come groovin' up Meanwhile, Berry's went, &quot;Here come a flattop, he was movin' up with Lennon settled the suit out of court, and over specifics in the agreement. Levy took Lennon to court for failing to record agreement required the Beatle to record for when Levy released a bootleg album featuring It's impossible to talk about the many tragedies it all ended. He was tragically assassinated by a man named musician in front of his own home on December Weirdly, this wasn't the first time Lennon On roughly 4:30 PM of that same day, a young The ex-Beatle signed the Double Fantasy album a few photos of the two together. That fan turned out to be Chapman, who would a little over six hours later, while still Chapman targeted Lennon simply because he was attention. He was inspired by the J.D. Salinger novel with the deed despite the kindness that Lennon Chapman has claimed since that he now regrets Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Grunge videos about your favorite Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the