No, I'm not in London (England). I'm in in the middle of the Caribbean Sea. It is one of the smallest countries in the world and probably of the prettiest. I have a few days here to find out. But first - a quick dip in the Caribbean Sea! Okay, now let's go to explore! Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the new series of &quot;viti_ontour&quot;! This time we are moving to the Western Hemisphere, specifically to one of my favorite regions in the Caribbean Sea - the West Indies! In this episode, we will cover the beautiful island nation of Antiga and Barbuda. We will take a look at its pristine beaches, historical monuments, and different attractions the island has to offer! But first, let's have a quick geography lesson to help us better understand the region the region. The region itself is located between North and South America, and often referred to as the Greater or Lesser Antilles Greater Antilles include such countries as Cuba, Jamaica, Dominican Republic and other small Islands. Our area of focus will be the Lesser Antilles. It is a set of islands starring just south of Puerto Rico and extending all the way to the coast of independent island nations in the region. And we start from Antigua and Barbuda! As the name suggests this country consists of two major islands: Antigua - being the main island with the capital of St John's and to the north a smaller island the main island where first we will concentrate on the western or Caribbean part then move to east to the Atlantic part and finish in the South. Let's take a quick look at some of the interesting facts about this country. The population is about 100K dominated by African descendants at about 88%. Christianity is the main religion here. The country covers an area of approximately 440 Sq km The country gained its independence East Caribbean dollar. Also when visiting this region I really liked the flags of every country here. Here's the flag of Antigua and Barbuda. &quot;Red&quot; - lifeblood of slave forefathers of the people, &quot;blue&quot; - hope, &quot;black&quot; - the soil and African Heritage&quot;. Gold, blue and white also symbolize Sun Sea and Sand - the main treasures of this country. Hopefully, now you understand my fascination with the flags here as each of them the story of these countries. Having said that please hit that like thoughts on this island. It will help more people to see this episode and get to know this beautiful region! Upon our arrival to Antiga we headed to located on the northwest coast and considered the most developed beach on the island, with numerous hotels restaurants and beach bars. Perhaps the most famous one being this floating bar called Kontiki. Because we arrived relatively late in to rain the bar was closed. Nevertheless, we took a stroll down the beach and swam for the first time on this trip. The whole experience was great and because of the convenience and the facilities that are present here, I can However, our absolute favorite was a all it's worth mentioning we stayed nearby and randomly found this gem. It is somewhat difficult to find as Google Maps takes you to this random resort that's located nearby. Here is a tip! You need to pass the resort gates, continue on this somewhat broken road until you hit this bridge. Once you cross the bridge you will see the path that will take you towards the paradise! What makes this particular beach special is the fact that it is surrounded by beautiful angulating hills. On one side occupied by what it looked like which we will get to shortly. Because of little waves depending on the time of the day. Add turquoise water, white sand and you've got yourself a stunning place to relax! We came here mostly in the mornings but because it was so close to the place we stayed on the few occasions we were here in the afternoon. That's when we start to notice a bit more life here. First from the resort that is unfortunately spoils the natural beauty and secondly from the day. However, it is nowhere as busy as other popular beaches on the island. So far I'm quite impressed with the beaches here in Antigua. Definitely meets and beats the expectations. Probably one of the better ones that I've seen ever. White sand turquoise water and they have this private to the whole charm of it. We love just staying at every random beach that we can find because they say there are 365 beaches here. I don't of the year you can go to a different beach. We're not trying to attempt that, so far we've been to a few of them and we liked every single of them. Another thing to consider is that a lot of people get intimidated seeing the hotels I think on quite a few Islands in West Indies, don't get intimidated you can literally go to enjoy it. And you don't need to pay thousands and thousands of dollars to do the same thing with the hotel. Well anyway the point being here try to explore as many of them as you can. I guarantee you, it's a postcard-like views here! What are those? Hermit She just loves those! Come on! So cute! These are friends! I would eat the big crabs though. Okay. As you can imagine all these in the Caribbean have so-called fortifications that back in the day, when English came were used to serve as lookout points and protection against the other boats that were sailing from the sea. Especially the pirates. One of these fortifications is also present on the island of Antigua and it's the only fort that actually saw military action. It's called Fort Barrington and it's kind of located, as you can imagine on the hill. It is because it the highest point close to the sea and built Fort Barington and the best part about it is Deep Bay, right behind me. It's a bit of a hike but the best time to do it in my opinion is early in the morning. As you can see the beach is empty and the hike to the fort also looks empty. So I'm going to go check it out! The hike to Fort Barrington from the beach lies through a small forest. Google Maps doesn't do a very good job finding this beach or Fort Barrington. It kind of leads to the Royalton Resort. off the grid broken roads and you bridge here and then you start crossing that bridge and you'll see two paths. One will go up to the fort and another would fairly easy but you'll probably need a pair of sandals! Nor &quot;flip-flops&quot;! Are you okay? Careful! it's beautiful! After climbing uphill for about 10 minutes gunning placement with stunning panoramic views of the harbor, Deep Bay, and open sea! Fort Burington was named after the English admiral. He fortified it in late 18th century. At the time the fort had about 36 We saw some barracks downstairs. Soldiers were living here regularly and their job was to protect the island and warn the boats coming from any direction. As you can see, the location was chosen for a reason. You have an open view in every direction recommended by me personally because beach, which was empty, and then we did a a great sense of accomplishment already. So I'd highly recommend it! And once you get to the top first of all, you get stunning views and secondly, you get to experience part of Antigua's history, as this fort is the only one that actually saw a battle. Another morning, another beach. Today beside the Deep Bay beach (the one we went to yesterday). Right next to the Deep Bay just over the hill with private villas there is another stunning beach. This area is home to the Galley Bay. &lt;Booking.com&gt; describes it as a private white sand beach because of the resort here. But it is misleading. You can access it freely, although it seems they make it as hidden as possible and as difficult as possible to locate the entrance here. But remember this So yes, you have every right to enjoy this place, and don't be intimidated by fancy resorts. Galley beach is known for the fact that famous Italian designer Giorgio Armani owns a villa here which is right behind me. Right next to the beach you'll find a set of cliffside villas that look like private residences. The highlight here is this complex. It belongs to Italian designer Giorgio Armani. I initially thought it was just one house but after putting my drone up I noticed that most of these villas were connected by a network of terraces that offered passage which meant that it's a whole resort that is owned by him. Not too shabby if you ask me! There is another resort here called Galley Bay with private villas, access to the beach, pools and some strange body of water on the other side. If you are looking for privacy and a pristine clean beach - Galley Bay would be a good choice! It concludes my top 3 list on the west side of the island. And of course, there are many more but it will take this whole episode to cover all of them. But I just want to say that I love the fact that Antigua has so many cool beaches. I truly start to appreciate it and I believe this is the main attraction, amazing, beautiful, postcard-like beaches. expectation. But once we arrive it's just stunning! It's one stunning beach after another. Having said that, we just experienced so far the West Coast and let's go in and explore the rest of the island! Located in the Northwest part of the island the capital of Antigua - a city of St John's is home to about 20K residents. It is the largest town in the country. Obviously, it is far from a cosmopolitan metropolis, yet by local standards, it can be quite hectic. The city is a mixture of colonial area buildings with some modern new buildings. With tourism accounting for more than 50% of the country's GDP and employing about half of the population, Antigua is well-positioned to deal with the influx of impression of St John's is the massive city's port. It is large enough to accommodate five modern cruises concurrently. It is probably one of the most popular ports in the region. It has one of the better waterfronts developed into an outdoor shopping mall with casinos, restaurants, gift shops catering to tourists. Most of the shops here are typical including Antigua's classic rum. Obviously grab a bottle of rum and try it out! Of course, many tour operators are setting up shops here to sell daily tours, with pickup and drop-off at the docks. However, it's worth noting that I didn't see any shops to showcase Antigua's indigenous craft and cultural heritage. We're at the harbor. This is the place where the cruise ships come and dock for a day. The people walk on these boardwalks into the city and do whatever activity they have planned. As you can see right now there are four of them here and they are pretty massive. There's a bunch of duty free shops here, a bunch of restaurants. People just stop for (I don't know) half a day and then they go back. One thing that catches your eye here is how colorful St John's is. Antiguans are definitely not shy of bright colors as they use them practically on every second building. This gives St John's its charm and makes even the ugliest structure here look pretty. There are two touristy and historical areas in St John's. Once the cruise ships come here, there's a place called Heritage Key It has a bunch of small restaurants and gift the street called Redcliffe, Redcliffe Quay or Qway? Whatever people call it. But this is a significant street because it is a historic street. This is one of the main avenues in St. John's and right now it's obviously quite busy. A lot of colorful buildings a lot of shops. It is intended for tourists obviously when they dock. There is something that in St. John's. Having explored the capital it's and bustle. But it's a nice walk down. Especially if you're going towards the cruise ships. There are many prominent figures on the island. However there's one person that stands out. He was the father of the modern Antigua and Barbuda. Antigua gained its independence in 1981 and his man played a huge part in Antigua's independence movement. Once you're in the capital, just behind me - that's VC Bird. He is considered to be very respected on the island. He did a lot of good for Antigua, including electricity around the island, free education. He was knighted by ... well he's supposed to be knighted by the Queen of England but he refused and he was actually knighted internally by the Antiguans. So prominent VC Bird also took Antigua away from sugar dependency and took the economy to the next level. He introduced the tourism and built the network of roads, infrastructure and this is when Antigua and Barbuda moved to a different sources of income for GDP. One of the most prominent landmarks of St John's is located at top of the hill. It is the late 19 century cathedral designed by the Canadian architect. It is a blend of Baroque and Georgian architecture. To address the major hazards of hurricanes and earthquakes, the wooden interior was housed within the wall of stone structure. I was actually surprised by the interior as I was expecting stone walls inside. But it is finished with teak wood and without any trace of masonry. The space felt somewhat tropical and perhaps even exotic in a way. Very different style of cathedral inside Everything was made of wood and looked pretty cool. But they are having a mass right now...or they are about to... Another thing about Antigua (to keep in mind) because it's ex colony, English colony - there's a lot of English influence here. And if you can see I'm sitting on the right side in the car and obviously they follow the UK style of driving here. Takes about, I don't know, half a day to adjust but something to keep in mind. Especially in the Caribbean country like this. We're finishing off with I and we have a few more places to see around. Then the rest of the trip is going to be somewhere outside the capital. We're rented this old Mitsubishi. So stay tuned and a lot of good stuff to come! Due to its strategical importance St John's attacks from the sea. The city is guarded by two fortresses at the mouth of St John's Harbour. Fort Barrington I have shown you already. Another one is Fort James. Both are about 15-20 min ride from the capital. The construction of Fort James began in the early 1700s and lasted for about three decades. Named after King James II, it is relatively small fort that once was home to about 70 soldiers and 36 cannons many of which are still present here. &lt;&lt;And this is how they were shooting the pirates, facing sea to the North!&gt;&gt; Do not expect to see impressive views from here. However if you want to experience a part of history about St John's and have time to do so, I would recommend making a quick stop. Especially because you most likely won't encounter any tourists here! A few facts about this beautiful country. First of all a lot of people make a mistake and call it AntigA it's actually AntigUa, AntigUa. But I wanted to give you a quick rundown on the history of this country specifically and also on the region - the West Indies or East Caribbeans. So it kind of applies to all of it but back in the day these Islands were settled by native tribes. Different America. They were coming in here and settling. The latest tribe that was present on this island of Antigua was a tribe called the Caribs. And this is the tribe that faced Columbus and the English after. When the English came they discovered decided to take over. They came here, they killed most of the native people, they enslaved the rest. And now the problem was - they did not have enough manpower to cultivate the sugar cane and other stuff that they found here. So they brought population of Antigua and most of the Caribbeans, the black population, are basically descendants of the African slaves that were brought And this brings us to the Betty's Hope sugar plantation, another historic monument of Antigua. Established in 1650, shortly after the English took over the island, it flourished as a successful agricultural and industrial enterprise at the huts here. Sugar cane was manually brought to the mill until the introduction of the railway in 1904. Today Betty's Hope is no longer operational as a plantation. It has been restored in 1990s and very little reminds of those brutal times when close to 500 slaves were used to enrich another British family. Betty's Hope played an important role in country's history and influenced the lives of many generations. It remains an important heritage site of Antigua and Barbuda - a site that could never be forgotten! Good morning! Another beautiful morning! Today we're exploring the other part of the island. and then we're going to go to the South. Today is all about Antigua. I want as possible. In fact the full name of the country is &quot;Antigua and Barbuda&quot;. &quot;Antigua&quot; the name comes from Christopher Columbus actually. He named it after the church in Sevilla. &quot;Barbuda&quot; on another hand means means &quot;bearded&quot;, and there are different versions why. Some say, once they sailed to the coast of Barbuda Island they saw a bearded man and that's how they called it. But anyways, today we're going to the southern part of the island. These parts of the island have plenty of historic landmarks which I hope will help me learn about morning, lots of traffic, because it's After about 1 hour drive, we hit the stop was a natural phenomena It is located outside the village called Antigua's natural formation. Composed of limestone rock the rugged terrain of Devil's Bridge is the result of millions of years of ancient reef formation. I apologize for the quality of this audio but it's so windy here. We came to see the Devil's Bridge and it's definitely a drastic change comparing Here you have the Atlantic Ocean and as you can imagine it's more windy here. And the waves are crazy but it's a cool spot to see because you have this natural Bridge made of rocks and ... I'm getting so wet going to attempt going there. But it's Before we get to our final spot there are mentioning. The first one is a swim with stingrays. However after learning about the fact that stingrays are being overfed or sometimes tourists, we felt somewhat uncomfortable and decided to move onto something more ethical. &lt;&lt;We go every day at 9, 11 and 1:00 o'clock and the duration is an hour and 30 minutes in total.&gt;&gt; The drive to the next place wasn't particularly easy but we were determined to find it. We're not giving up, here we go piggies! After initially GPS sent us to two different locations we finally found ourselves at the remote beach. We arrived Yesterday we went to see the stingrays and I had an odd feeling about it because we thought it was a bit cruel what they do to stingrays. it's quite difficult to get to but it seems I mean it was okay but after finding out the cost to take a photo with a pig, it So cute! What did you think? Very adorable Is it worth $70? Ummm... Personally I would not recommend it especially because it takes quite some time to get here. But let's move on to our final location on the South tip of the island!. We are done with the Eastern part of the island and now we're moving towards the English Harbour - historic area of Antigua. Nelson's dockyard is one of the finest in its original form. Many of the 18th and 19th century buildings have been adopted for modern day needs and enhanced the rich culture and natural environment. Fortifications around English Harbour provided the British Navy with a secure base from which they maintained control of trade oriented colonies throughout the Caribbean. Surrounding hills and the narrow winding inlets protect the dockyard from the Northeast trade winds and the open sea. Early settlers were attracted to the area and the plantation economy of the latter settlers was defended by patrols of naval ships that were once repaired at these dockyards. Forts were built here to protect Nelson's docks from the attack of French Pirates also known as &quot;privateers&quot; who were attracted to this area by rich Caribbean sugar trade. Wooden sailing ships were exposed to multiple dangers and one of the most annoying and damaging was &quot;teredo&quot; warm. These would infest the halls of the ship creating holes in the exposed wood. As a result ships needed constant repairs and English Harbour with its calm waters and sheltered base was a perfect place to do this. We just arrived to Nelson's dockyard and it is a historic site of Antigua. Essentially what islands and establish their presence, they and all the admirals or &quot;key&quot; people that London would send to control the island would build the houses here and small little settlements. And this Nelson dockyard in the English Bay is an example of it. Here you see quite English came. They turned it into sort of site to come and see. It does cost money. It costs around USD15 or ECD40 but it also gives you a right to area. Would I recommend it? I think I would, because it's very cute, photogenic? or photographic I guess, whatever the word is. And also you get to learn about the history of this island because no matter what the history is, it is still One of the sites that I would strongly recommend visiting here is a local museum. In my opinion it is also one of the most beautiful buildings and originally served as officer's headquarters in the Royal Navy dockyard. Restored in 1970s the building served as offices for the national parks before opening its doors as a museum in 1997. Today, the museum presents a history of the Nelson's dockyard alongside exhibits that highlight current archaeological and historical research in Antigua. On the ground floor you can learn about the history and the development of the yard and people who worked here. It is essential to note that without African labor the dockyard could not have survived. Most of the labor here was involuntary, carried by the slaves. These were men owned by the Crown, who spent their lives working in the dockyards. On the 8th of March 1744 an explosion ripped through the English Harbour killing 8 enslaved African men. This event gave a push to the 8th of March project that targets to uncover the daily lives of the enslaved men who lived and worked around this area. Upstairs the military history of the English Harbour is told. I personally found this visit very educational and satisfying! After the independence of Antigua surrounding areas a national park. In 2016 the park received UNESCO world heritage site designation Over the past 20 years the dockyard has been developed into a mixed use complex. Aside from being an active marina for luxury yachts, there are many restaurants shops and even a luxury hotel. Included under the UNESCO designation of were constructed to protect the area from the invaders. Among them is Shirley Heights Lookout - the place we headed to observe a panoramic views of the harbour, after having a delicious local meal. And so our time at this beautiful country Antigua &amp; Barbuda has come to its end. We spent a few days here and enjoyed every single of them! Beautiful beaches, beautiful weather, great people, great culture and lots of history. I strongly recommend you come and visit! However as for us - we got to move on and the next destination for us is going to be Grenada, which is a bit south of Antigua. Having said that, I definitely recommend Antigua! Thank you never saw you! Stay adventurous, stay safe