This is a Qing Dynasty handed down A courtyard with nearly 200 years of history It is located in the mountains of Jingxing The locals call it Xiucaiyuan The most beautiful time This family has 12 scholars in one generation. Open the long- closed door Through the mottled wall What comes into view is a desolate And the empty scene But through all the details scene of his day spent a year searching for the courtyard. Finally I was lucky enough to meet it In the next long period of time I will use all my energy to repair it Look forward to it After clearing the grass in the yard yesterday Come again today Found a lot of problems Quite serious The table top should be solid wood A coat of paint this paint off. It should be pretty nice. Is it a tiger ? Finally achieved a more ideal goal Final Experience I think it is more useful to climb the gray wind tunnel But people say You have to clean up all the garbage in the house. Including the yard Good construction! I can't clean it up anymore. We are going to raise the foundation of this small courtyard. Then it was raised about 40 centimeters. Well, not really. He lives in water Then build a toilet . So today I invited the crane master Pushed a stone wall here He let this empty space flow out Good work Bathroom wall I 'm going to build it with stones . This feels like a spectrum . I think it is better than red bricks . The one that is plastered with cement is much better. Working over there . I'll just do what I can. Cleaning is just something we are good at. Others are not allowed the work I do is very stress- relieving It 's OK . Blue bricks on the ground After the roof of the house is repaired I'm not going to move I still want to keep the blue bricks on this ground The blue bricks of the south room were also preserved. In my impression Clean it up Then brush on copper oil It won't create dust . It should be pretty nice. See the hook machine master After clearing the stones in the courtyard over there Come to our big platform This platform has more than 200 square meters There are probably two pig pens Squeeze all the stones out of this pigpen Then I will prepare to surround this platform Use stones to build a wall about 60 to 70 centimeters high circle it Then organize this platform well. as a The big garden will definitely be beautiful in the future on this platform It also takes many, many days. Neighbors at work Very carefully kept the good tiles These are all left from his roof at that time. Back to repair it It will be comfortable to stay here. During these days of construction They 're going to live here. they came The house you want to live in Cleaned from inside to outside This courtyard All his walls The inside is surrounded by stones and yellow mud . The outside is made of blue bricks. the blue brick skeleton? Take it apart bit by bit Don't destroy the wall Master Zhang needs to put these bricks of the exoskeleton Clean it all up Then put the repaired bricks back on. Because I'm afraid the wall will collapse So they work very slowly. the bricks on one by one. Then fill it with food The bricks of each watch All need to be repaired Then try the size and paste it on The old bricks are still used . Well, because the sizes are different. Need to cut thickness and size Be very careful when removing the bottom edge of this wall . Because the upper pillar is afraid that it will tilt and cause this Large - scale wall collapse So when dismantling the lower layer , be very careful and slow. Seeing me anxious on top keeps falling off Master Zhang himself said After he finished dismantling it, he was also sweating all over. The work I do is done with fear and trepidation This brick moves down little by little The dust from above keeps falling Master Zhang needs to see the performance above Take it down bit by bit sometimes When the stones inside cannot be moved anymore You need a grinder to grind So that the bricks are put back on Now building this wall The speed will be much faster After removing the stones inside We need to fill it with broken bricks and cement. Some bricks are different in thickness I have to cut it flat again. I moved some wood to make a fuss. Same old example Take a taxi to the village entrance Then use three characters to move it into the yard It's still the process of flipping the lock The previous roof was not removed. I wanted to save some trouble Less tinkering The result was rework. Took off all the tiles on the roof Re- pin the river None of these steps can be missed. After I pulled the wood back I found that the workers had removed the roof tiles . All have been received The workers divided the wood into two places for storage. For later use Renovation of old house There are always many unexpected problems All I can say is that we will do whatever we can. Repair whatever you do Step by step the roof need to be peeled off slowly bit by bit. Then layer by layer Carry the soil and tiles separately What about the old tiles? stack them up at once We repair the roof Previously, this corner in the northeast was a staircase. Later it was changed to the kitchen We 're going to tear it down. Rebuilding the building The ladder allows us to go up to the second floor. This time the demolition A lot of garbage left behind Clear away all the construction waste. Little by little This is a lot of work. much more complicated than building a new yard. I feel The Sichuan character I made before was leveled on the top This method is a bit unreliable So I'm back to work today. We made some blocks. Place it under the Sichuan character to fix it This way the word &quot;Chuan &quot; is flat. His spaceship will also level well. Find Pingchuanzi Dingchuanzi and then Dingwangban Spaceship One process at a time It really opened my eyes. Renovation of this yard My vision will be improved a lot. I will also have some insights into ancient buildings. Roof carpentry in Dongwu I've basically finished it in these two days. The workers are busy covering the roof with boards. Repair the string Ding ding dong dong is very lively Next Symphony I visited other courtyards in my spare time . I looked at what the old wooden doors and windows looked like. Prepare for future renovations Carpentry work completed Then the ridge guns on both sides were repaired and completed Just waiting for the top . The masters started to build this staircase Because there is a water pipe under the stairs The water pipe is coming I am afraid that the water pipes may be broken and cannot be repaired. So the stairs of the first three buildings 30 -centimeter aisle was flashed I think repairing this staircase The most difficult thing is to make these imbalances Put them one by one. Because it's heavy and difficult What happens after the 321 is out of tune ? We also need to make subtle adjustments His position His height His balance Come little by little Adjust it to the left and right To provide a location for future water pipes Leave enough space What about from the fourth stool upwards? Still the old way Master Zhang used his arch method to make the above Cover Make this dome into an arch Make an arc In this way , bricks are piled up layer by layer . feels like the Zhaozhou Bridge . He will be strong. The money flew out of his bag. Master Zhang said The roof of Dongwu This is the largest part of the yard project. Fortunately, the roof was completed. After a while , the work will be finished after the tiles are laid . During the two days of roof construction A lot of things happened As a result , I was able to complete the game in one day. It took two days For example, the cart broke down. For example, the water supply is cut off. So helpless Fortunately, the workers are happy The project is going smoothly the problems were solved perfectly . I think this is the best outcome. Nail the boards to build the scaffold Then keep experimenting back and forth How smooth is this car ? To enable smooth development Roofing Process Step by step I learned a lot come into contact with it before . I have a very strong feeling recently. Young people in the countryside have all left. The people at home are all elderly I never thought about it The people working here are all white-haired old people. They are around 60-70 years old . Still struggling at this age still working I was really deeply touched. When the roof cement is almost finished A major situation was discovered Because the roof beams are curved It presents a large arc the black chicken on the roof is also tilted to the west. Then I didn't come yesterday When I came today The masters are doing Another step of this staircase It was originally planned to be in the ear-washing room on the second floor of Zhongbei Wu to change his staple food . As a result, I came up today to see The staple food is already rotten. So I had to take off all the tiles on this side . Completely redo the roof of this annex yesterday The masters have already put a beam in this wing . See that yard behind him ? It's also good When I was removing the tiles, I found two bricks like this. Look at what this brick represents . The tiles removed from the second floor on the east side The masters have cleaned it up. And put the garbage on the second floor They've all been moved to the first floor. Another pile of garbage. Need to be transported outside the yard The floor of this house is rotten . Looks like I need to replace it again. Master Zhang and Master Jia I have already started working on the boat on the second floor. Ah, they are cleaning up the trash in the room. sounds a bit unprofessional. many things that were not photographed. Because I need to run around to buy things Or maybe it was delayed by something else . Construction on a roof with a large slope is more dangerous So the workers used ropes to pull themselves together What about the other end? Tied to a solid stone To ensure their own safety When laying polypropylene cloth First brush the roof with cement mortar with glue Then lay the polypropylene cloth on top The next step after the roof is waterproofed It's time to lay the tiles So the masters have to paint out the old tiles as a whole Arrange the quantities and put them together Good for the next process His tree roots The stone slabs have been arched up. Greatly damaged the terrain and the safety of the house So these trees must be cut down. These tree roots have to be dug out. Otherwise this house Long term One is leakage Another possibility that could lead to collapse houses leak? Why did it collapse? In fact, in many cases, it is caused by plants. When no one takes care of it for a long time There are many plants growing on the roof . Rainwater will seep down the roots of the plants. Causes rain and water leakage built with Tujia stones . water enters , it will cause the mud to settle. This caused a roof leak . And many people will be surprised houses with people living in them collapse ? In fact , when people live The bottom of the house won't be too damp Including a maintenance job So the grass on the roof and so on It won't grow that much . Including many roofs like this tile house grass will grow It won't leak rain. No water leakage causing the house to collapse Originally, a video of this small project I basically don't post anymore . It's for taking more photos . Post a video at a time But because of the rain for three days Yeah, no video . The other one It's to complete a task of posting a video . Decided to post it anyway. Let me say a few more words here questions that many friends are concerned about first question This quadrangle located at In a village in the mountainous area of Jingxing, Shijiazhuang It is in the center of the village. should be people around. I rented this yard. The lease term is 20 years Many people asked you to transform like this. it worth spending so much ? First, let's extend the time . 20 years of use 20 years of use You spend some money to maintain it I think it 's worth it Another point is that I was greedy . Love this yard This human desire It drives me to spend money to do this . Although very tired But it 's for my own desire. always many desires in life Many friends asked this yard be used for in the future? Actually , I haven't figured it out yet . The original intention was to find a small courtyard A space for yourself to calm down and feel at ease Then, such a big yard Such a big investment I want to open a tea house. I want to build a B&amp;B again. I haven't figured it out yet . Friends can give their own suggestions and opinions There is another major problem Many friends are asking it cost to renovate this yard? My first thought was First of all, we must ensure that this yard is complete Will not collapse again Repaired the roof Doors and windows are installed The floor inside is ready That 's it. A very large part of the project The rest depends on the financial resources and time at hand. Let's improve it little by little. At least if all the projects just mentioned are completed Friends come There is a place to stay You can host friends now Welcome everyone to visit You can meet many like-minded friends Chatting in this courtyard Drinking tea and talking about the heart It can also provide a platform for communication. the roof is repaired , The construction of the entire roof is divided into several steps The first step is to level the entire roof ridge with tiles and mud. The receipt for the south room I ordered when it was raining has arrived. Ship it up today In the mountainous area , because the house is located halfway up the mountain Same old method Whether it is garbage or supplies They all need to be transported to the village entrance first. Then use the horse racing to pull it up The old man pushing the cart in the video We call him Uncle He is the oldest among us. I am 77 years old this year . This is Uncle San 73 years old The pillars are almost put two two-way locks underneath Hitting each other Make the pillars taller After the belly is raised You also need to dig out the staple food below You can also adjust the shape of the staple food Make an early morning The collar of the roof of the south room is basically broken. The mud on the roof was too thick. About 20 cm If you remove all the tiles from the roof If you want to replace the collar The project is too huge Master Zhang came up with a more compromising solution Although not very beautiful But it can strengthen the entire roof We took the old broken strips from the eaves them with new ones 77 -year -old uncle Kang Xiling came Still walking briskly For broken chains inside the house Master Zhang gave me a chain on the top and bottom. Reinforce him The old broken collar It can't be pushed up anymore . If once it is lifted This may cause the roof to not fall off. You want an arm? Want to catch me? Catch me Don't grab it , just grab it. Look at me. No need to rush If you run into me , I will run barefoot in the rain Master Zhang is repairing It is the wall where there was collapse and hollowing. this wall has collapsed . So it always rains here . This is what it looks like after restoration The melody sounded again With gentleness Master Jia and Uncle San are working on the rooftop Many people say that ancient buildings used to use corkscrews. In fact , this house from 200 years ago He used nails. But these nails are all hand-hammered Very thick The next video is about a nail from 200 years ago. See what nails looked like 200 years ago Compared to Master Zhang 's 200- jin weight Such a small space is building a brick wall It's a bit difficult Because the sizes of handmade tiles vary So the distance between each cage are different Need to take a picture of the size Good for dripping Watt's stall this Nanwu Xier room collapsed before So we have to rebuild it His bricks are missing. Master Zhang wants to make the bricks according to the special shape of the dock. Repair these bricks one by one . So magical Come on, let's renovate it Our dog doesn't know what's going on. This afternoon, I was wandering around Follow wherever you go Always by your side The star top is finally finished Start remodeling the garden But I didn't expect that at the end of this video Gave me a big scare The bricks of this wall are rotten . Master Zhang wants to take it down one by one There is a door here Then the brick wall and the top are already in tatters. Including the bricks , so I decided to demolish it Then rebuild it I didn't expect this shock to be here There's a big hidden danger here. can't find it before you remove this flower . These cleared stones are placed on the south side of the platform Prepare to build a low wall as a barrier Not that stupid, right? Anyway, he is just an ordinary person A person who works hard for life These words came out This may disappoint some people. But this is the real me Okay, let's get back to the book . get back to the process of repairing the yard. This staircase on this platform I wanted to lay the bricks myself . I didn't expect to flip over here . I didn't realize I wasn't that talented. Very good imagination The reality is very bleak Why did it flip over ? Watch till the end I wanted to do a puzzle . This jigsaw puzzle game didn't pass. Oh, I really want to find an expert to help me Oh , there is another question that needs to be explained . Just in the previous video There's a cracked wall inside . there a 15 cm gap? Many people say that there is no need to repair it. Actually This kind of house has walls that are raw inside and cooked outside. It belongs to Wuling Wall Divided into two layers That wall is tilted ? It is equivalent to two skins . outer layer is tilted There are paintings inside There is no problem And this kind of house is made of wooden frame Four beams and columns problem with his safety . Here Master Zhang built a wall Block up the slanted wall And he hit two drum gates at his tilted position Support Strengthened its security This can be beautiful It can also be reinforced See if this method works. The first thought was Scrape off the white wall After that, the adobe wall was preserved Then it saves some trouble At this time , you have to knock on the wall Where is the place where there is no suffering? Shovel it up Just think about making up for it then . Check it out I found that there are still many hollow places . The plan to save effort has failed. Just do it directly. When cleaning the stone wall I found the soil was too big. Using your own little spray bottle is useless Wait for your own artifact. the outside first. When the stone wall was cleared to this state I suddenly had an idea You don't know Do you have the same idea as me ? I want to keep these two stone walls. Shovel the soil off the wall Soak in water Then paste it on the wall While waiting shovel out the soil from the two stone walls. Cleaned the seams The spray-coated sandcastle is dry Look at the sand fixation effect. There's really no soil at all. Today is a day for playing in the mud Anyone wanna play together ? done this before I don't know, so I think it's better to use two hands. But in the last episode, my friends said I was too laborious . Then try using a back shovel . Using tools An extension of the human body How about wiping this wall ? Including the mud, it's much better than last time. This time, I feel very satisfied with my life. Wipe the wall little by little Better than the last time. This wall from front to back I feel like my wall -painting skills have improved a bit . still Look at this technique I go to the job market and find someone who wants me for 80 yuan a day. The body becomes stiff I'm so tired after doing some work. We still need to have some proper activities . But don't overdo it Leave the window area unpainted for now I don't know how this window was repaired. Let's put glass on them. It's so congested. How can I use white cement to fill the gaps ? Watched various videos online Various tutorials Then combined with various suggestions from friends Continuous learning The result is that you can learn it once you learn it. Once done, it will be useless This mud took me half a day to adjust it . Finally adjusted to the ideal level The old rule is to use a water wall Try the wall first Remove the dust What about this groove today ? I feel like I've flipped over. Because I found it when I was grooving These seams vary in width . Different depths The ditch is deep and shallow You need to dig up the soil Then I flushed it with a water gun It's quite difficult No experience before then do much of this work. I did this little bit There are female phoenixes and military phoenixes I want to eat some potato chips Have some roast black duck Crispy potato chips I still want to eat meat Eat a big bowl of rice Is a person The last one is a blank heart It's not his dialogue. It's me The persimmons on the mountain have turned dead They remember this persimmon Very convenient but it should be emerald Baby is poop should 7 gives you the chance to fight monsters 380 The next belt turns red and the next belt turns yellow This 10 years old This 120 -year-old wow I got sick for the second time There 's a blood clip in the gun . Miss 1 I eat three days a day before work I have an ice cream now. Day 3 meal Big brother said Oh, I think the baby has too much time for gossip. long Be Big light sign I don't want to be polite I don't want to lose weight I don't want nutrition He lost the problem of losing Why fight? Play here There is always garbage in the yard . These garbage are all over the earthen slabs Very exaggerated look will always be Restoring this garbage will kill you I was also beaten to death should be a slight cruelty in my eyes My eyes hurt. one degrees and baby show my baby I am the dark night snack But you are darker I'm funny today I might be the one you brought well. There is your opposite below Not waiting yet Buy a small plane I want God Where are you going? Hahaha It is your invincible love for me that is the most So I just want to give you everything, nothing else I to you And I know I haven't forgotten my voice. Remember the cover you said you belong with you My two little kids, the hearts of two little kids I haven't finished the year yet You fucking look like me Fuck you Oops, like a confused dick They will say something How to say 124 If a gust of wind and a thread go down It's too bad to eat I plan to invest well Small dog If you say yes, you should eat You hate it, you know I like it That's for you n't let go ? Silly Silly Silly You are lonely On my shoulders is a mother If you don't know my voice, turn off my phone. Connect Hello everyone, this is how you see me. I 'm here to open your account . Look I am a good or bad kind of dick called on TV network And you're so big and fierce worst at work cute at night these things ? I can't sleep Heard one night My child is this Is this ok ? Good Soon the night will be soon criticized Punch card to win red envelope is very Very small Full of historical atmosphere Oh My God Good start Put it away, brother It 's so fair to marry me I want the money back The only close friend Hello The hair is clean too . Oh, it was a little baby before. There is also a handsome guy who wo n't eat this My fat is really too bitter. Feels so sweet this is for sure my I'm so strong I want him to join Scarred and desolate Too many eyes This kind of outer line is sun protection Anti-photography The bottom should cry this girl did before she struggled Sad under pressure This light is due to the weather. different given to me is Kittens hate eat ice cream ah All right Very tired I'll go put it up Hehe, talking . Yeah yeah push for me My pub invites you to come and take pictures One shot is against West 300 or opponent i am cold here i am so good I must say I can't sleep this is not me I am the one who is hurt by my brother's wound At this moment , I will also give you a small skill to comfort you. My Technology This is my own Great, I really don't eat it. This is more expensive than it actually is . shopping are you with a baby I 've been dead for many years. Remembering the past, I realized it must still be very fierce After all , it's still not possible if you don't know how to do it Find a master from the village to help me Fuck me together My dog seems to be interested in everything . Whatever you do, you should look forward and sideways . The dead shape of the child is still wrong in childhood As long as it works It's more convenient to follow the dishes I represent Skill Life I 'd rather observe first. Satellite at any time For children like this Very caring I will protect the emperor . bang bang bangs and you is so searching for we are so bang bang bang bang bang condition of a cheap eye i swear i think i know what i know A A A A Ahhh ah One eye open You're not feeling well . Daddy holds you eat my god i'm so hot here we go niggas hurry on me go Me too falls down when you are protecting the cup Remember to drink enough One cup of rice and one cup of tea A sip of tea, a cup of tea for half a month Green vegetables Cucumber is very long autumn Let this basically reach the future Good condition It's also my favorite place to stay to fuck it down say the please have i take it for my Tell the children Qingming Festival Flowers on the ground It's big when you see it Everyone is good Afternoon time That is, baby 's smile and popsicle plus start Immediately afraid of fire is not called stepping Use tiles as dividing lines It's beautiful, so use it. Before I knew it, it was already late So empty There is too much manure in the vegetable field Move over to where the flowers and plants are grown to share the burden I like this platform more and more I take a break, I sit under this tree. scenery is very good So first spread the grass seeds Then follow Without our walls walls today Feeling like following the wind To ensure the flatness and even length of the wall I pulled two lines. When I first arrived here The sky has fallen We stopped work for half a day I want to make a let it go I love eating raw rice I love eggplant This person doesn't eat I can't stand it Second cup of the day The offal of the day I am a baby Pack a bag Forgot my love Not an embarrassing opponent This cup is the kitchen Add a lot of ingredients I'm not at ease