Whether they are playing or changing up hairstyles Gabby and the Gabby Cats Today, I'm getting crafty-riffic by all of the Gabby Cats. Come on, let's give First up, let's make Gabby's ears, to get tiny, you wear these ears, you can Pandy is a cat, so I'm my headband in fabric. [MUSIC PLAYING] Cardboard is sturdy material To make this headband look color one ear black. Cat-tastic! The insides of and to make this look I'm using sparkles. All that's left to do Now we can all match [CHIME] Baby Box is one crafty cat. So I'm making her base, and blue paper [MUSIC PLAYING] Her dress is covered in Baby Box has bright pink Now I have a headband I'm feeling crafty-riffic. I'm pretty great [CHIME] Gabby and Pandy love so let's make some Cakey ears. Cakey looks like a looks like a pink and So I'm wrapping the in pink and blue hair ties. [MUSIC PLAYING] I'll wrap the rest of the to look like Cakey's Each one of Cakey's ears looks These pen caps are perfect This headband is ready [CHIME] Now for everyone's CatRat. CatRat is blue and furry, , and as the base of his headband. [MUSIC PLAYING] He has tall, skinny ears Can't forget the pink insides. Now it's time to add CatRat's A-meow-zing. This headband is fit Nicely done. [CHIME] Time to make a headband resident scientist, MerCat. Her skin is seafoam making the base of the MerCat is covered in so I'm using this glittery to make scales for my headband. [MUSIC PLAYING] MerCat wears a fuchsia I'm making mine All that's left to is her kitty cat ears. This is one cute headband. [GASPS] Shimmering sea scales. [CHIME] Gabby loves playing dress-up I'm making a headband so I Pillow Cat is a squeezy, so I'm starting this headband by Her body is made of [MUSIC PLAYING] I need to cover the ends to Pillow Cat's fabric is sewn I'm using this yarn to show I hear Pillow Cat's with kitty cat ears. Paw-tastic! With this Pillow ready for dress-up, a Oh! Was I catnapping? [CHIME] Now it's time to DJ Catnip in the house. DJ Catnip has purple fur, so on my headband. For DJ Catnip's funky stripes, and using little hair scrunchies [MUSIC PLAYING] I'm making the ears of just like DJ Catnip's hoodie. Groovy! Wearing this headband, I'll be beats, or learn Whoo! [CHIME] Vroom, vroom, It's time to make I'm starting by making this like Carlita's paint. Carlita's ears are pretty small, to the headband. [MUSIC PLAYING] She zooms around the dollhouse, [MUSIC PLAYING] And we can't forget With this Carlita headband, to my next adventure. [CHIME] Let's fly over to to make our Kitty Kitty Fairy has that sprout out of her head. To make dandelions, I'm covering and attaching it to a pom-pom. [MUSIC PLAYING] Now it's time to Kitty Fairy is an and knows how to grow just like the ones I'm using green foam for the and yellow pom-poms Ta-da! Anything feels possible with [CHIME] I hope you had fun watching by our Gabby Cat friends. Try making one of so you, too, can Get ready to sip in style with by Cakey, Pandy, and MerCat. Let's get started. I'm using some foam to [MUSIC PLAYING] Now for his eyes and And I'll use markers By painting wooden beads, for Cakey's whiskers. Sprinkle-riffic! Now I'm using these shiny foil I'm adding a zigzag to make it look like When Cakey gets really it's a sprinkle party. And there you have it. It's me! Our Cakey water bottle is in the sweetest way possible. Now it's time to make a bottle. I think you're really I'm using foam for his And some googly eyes [MUSIC PLAYING] I love it! Now I'll cut out some You look good. Let's make this water bottle I'm using clay and shaping will fit on my water bottle. After it dries, I'm coloring The tail really brings I think this water bottle Now you have a Pandy pal to Oh, this is so exciting. Who's next? Time to dive in a MerCat water bottle. Paw-tacular! For MerCat's fur, I'm paper to the bottle. A mixture of glue and water Let it dry. Mer-tastic! I'm using foam for and a heart-shaped I'm just so excited! Time to draw on her eyelashes She wouldn't be Shimmering sea scales! [WATER BURBLING] I'm using felt for her star. MerCat likes to splash and Time to add these because bubbles make Now you have a MerCat bottle for I hope you enjoyed creating bottles. Carry them with you wherever you Cats keep you company. [CHIME] Get funky for back to school backpack. It's DJ Catnip in the house. Where should we start? I'll start by using felt to cut He has a big smile and I'll make two pink Now I'm adding two My purple backpack is the [MUSIC PLAYING] I'm smiling. DJ Catnip uses the on his hoodie to hold things. I'm using foam and felt to make like his. [MUSIC PLAYING] His outfit wouldn't be complete Groovy! [MUSIC PLAYING] This backpack needs DJ Foam will help these kitty I love the look. I'm painting some Adding pink beads to makes them look like the DJ Catnip has colorful so I'm using pipe to the straps of my backpack. Pawsome! This DJ Catnip backpack is ready So let's add a disco ball. When DJ Catnip's disco ball Let's boogie. I think it's time to get Woo-hoo-hoo! [MUSIC PLAYING] Now you can take the party I hope you enjoyed making backpack with me. Show up to school in style with shoes. Let's get our first shoe resident scientist, MerCat. I'm just so excited. MerCat's fur is seafoam with a shoe of the same color. Green, like me. This blue sequin looking good and feeling good. I'm using felt to make a [MUSIC PLAYING] She wears a bright so let's add one to the shoe. Yes! The pink star. It's just like the one I wear. I'm using sequin to add to the toe of the shoe. Shimmering sea scales! So sparkly. Let's give our shoe kitty [MUSIC PLAYING] I'll add them to the And now it's cat-tabulous. This shiny ribbon reminds me and potions. Let's make it a shoelace. Time to lace up my sneaker Bubbles make everything better, as the finishing touch. Now, this shoe is the bubbles. Merc-tastic! Let's use some garden magic into Kitty Fairy. Leaping lilies! Let's do it. Kitty Fairy lives in so I'm starting with a sparkly Sparkles come out of Let's add one to the shoe. Flower-rific! Kitty Fairy uses her tail to grow. Let's make the shoe extra To make her wings, I'm to a piece of plastic. Time to draw the flowery Now I can fly into By using your fairy I'm adding green looks like the grass in Yellow and fabric flowers crown. Time to make our garden grow by shoelace. Flower-rific! And now it's time to When I add these white fluff they look just like Kitty Cat-tastic! This Kitty Fairy Now you can bring your wherever you go. I hope you enjoyed making [CHIME] Celebrating Valentine's as we say in the dollhouse, to tell your friends Today, we're making three inspired by MerCat, Baby Let's get crafting. Start with an empty milk carton I'm using beige and light blue The top of Baby Box's I cut two teeny-tiny triangles and the top of her head Ta-da! Now let's glue it all on. Time to have a face. I'll draw her eyes, the cutest And rosy cheeks. She also has two purple whiskers I'm using pipe cleaners. Bend them so they're wavy, It's me. Let's add a little I'm writing &quot;Happy And last, I'm adding little It's got polka Our Baby Box And the best part with all sorts of fun I like making things with you. Up next is a sweet by our flower-rific 3, 2, 1. Start with the pink lollipop. Be sure to keep the wrapper on. Let's make Kitty I'm using pink foam. Now add them to the lollipop. Next, add googly eyes and draw Kitty Fairy has and wears a flower-rific You can add some little craft And now it's time to A fairy isn't complete Let's use some garden of a piece of plastic. You can decorate them Now attach them to Time to write a note I'm writing &quot;You're a Aw. This sweet treat is sure to the very best. Fairy-rific! Let's get this party started! To make a MerCat with a blue bottle of bubbles. I'm using foam to and covering it with seafoam Let's make her eyes, Now draw on eyelashes Here comes the best part. Shimmering sea And don't forget her Yes, the pink star! Time to add more of MerCat's mer-mazing tail. Now, this wouldn't be without a cat-tastic note. In true MerCat fashion, I'm You did it. Thanks for crafting with us. Your friends are We hope your Kitty-tine's Exchanging kitty-tines is a cat-tastic way to or Kitty-tine's Day, as Today, we're making inspired by Gabby's They're the most to store all your Want to make one? Great! Let's get crafting. Start with the gift box. Cover it with colored paper. Since it's Kitty-tine's for the base and dark Now let's give them kitty faces. I'm using gems to make make everything better. And Gabby's surprise have closed sleepy eyes Next, make a cute heart to make a sweet smile. Great! Let's glue them on. Now add two gems for the cheeks. Time to make the kitty ears. Cut two pink triangles, for the inner ears. Glue them onto the Boop, boop. This kitty needs Let's make some hearts I'm using sparkly paper. [MUSIC PLAYING] Now glue them on. And more gems, of course. Now I have everything I need A-meow-zing! This Kitty-tine's Are you ready to make another? Then I know just what to make. A Cakey Kitty-tine's box. Start with a white gift box. Cut out two sleepy kitty eyes. I'm using black foam, and Cut two pink circles Cakey typically has but since it's thought it'd be fun Now glue them on. Now cut two white and two smaller pink And add them to the box. Can't forget the sprinkles. Of course not. These little wooden beads We just need to paint just like Cakey's. Sprinkle party! Glue the sprinkles Ta-da! Sprinkle-rific! Your box is ready to fill note for your kitty-tine. Are you ready for Ready. Great. Because it's time to make a box. Gabby wears a with peekaboo kitties on it. For Kitty-tine's Day, I'm to hearts. Glue it to the box. I love black and white. She also wears a pink cardigan. I'm using felt again. Cut out squares to cover Now cut four strips And one more square for the top. Wow! That was pretty art-tastic. Time to add a face. Bend pipe cleaner into U Now let's make a mouth Glue the face to the Gabby wears heart patches on I'm going to use to make heart-shaped Now let's make the kitty ears. Gabby wears a headband that because that's what Can't forget the tip of For the insides of it'd be cute to add more hearts. I heart this so much. Time to assemble. Pretty adorable. But we're still A kitty-tine, of course. I love making my own to You can use your whatever kitty-tine you like. Thanks for crafting with us. And have a happy