As far as experiments are concerned, I think one has to be So I am not an expert on experiments, although the recent experiments of the point of view I'm putting forward, skeptical, thinking it might be a bit So I just have a neutral position on this. I can't really judge the experiments and exactly how one might make observations, experimental observations Well, the argument will have to be that one has quantum effects These little tiny parts of cells. And this has been the argument ever since I had the communication I'd written my book, to put forward my viewpoint And at that time, in the brain And it was interesting to hear from Stuart Hameroff who read my book and his job was to do with consciousness, namely to turn it off in a reversible way because he is an anesthesiologist he was at the time Arizona, and he introduced to me of which I was completely ignorant I'm not a biologist. I am not a physiologist. I don't know So I have to trust other people But the arguments that I had I had attended as a graduate student three courses that were nothing whatsoever which had to do with pure mathematics, And one of the lectures called Steen on mathematical Logic, and he explained how the Godel's theorem worked and what compute I learned from him and there are which don't have computable solution. I mean they have a solution of some sort but they're not solutions So I was aware that there were such things and what I found was when he came to the Godel's theorems and I was a little bit disturbed by the idea of Godel's theorems, graduate work. And I wasn't very happy with the idea there were things in mathematics What I found reassuring the Godel argument, is to show if you have any system of proofs and you could in principle Godel shows how you construct a sentence which you could see But what struck me as most remarkable and most reassuring of why the rules work enable you So it's understanding why the rules work, which enables you to see You see that it But it is derivable by your understanding why those rules are actually correct. So the mathematical results. Well, yes, but I guess example, probably the computers have grown in power and it may well be that they could solve that any specific problem in I think it's around about that, yeah. I think I'm afraid I'm thinking that I have a very different view Yeah, I mean, my view certainly is not because quantum mechanics, is well, as Einstein and Schrodinger have I'm not as polite as they are, I would say and is not correct exists does not have a theory You see, You have the description of the world according to a thing The quantum state evolves, which is a deterministic equation, However, As long as your system is small and in some technical then it does behave But when the system gets too big I mean by big, when it gets too big, then it doesn't You have this phenomenon of the collapse of the wave function, that it's not just that quantum mechanics Quantum mechanics on its own wouldn't give you consciousness. It's how quantum mechanics as it exists, Quantum mechanics follows the Schrodinger equation and following the Schrodinger equation You need something which goes beyond that, And this the argument is, has to be So I'm arguing it's I'm saying what has to go on in the brain whatever its brain is like, which is not just evolving It's evolving according to that theory. We don't yet have, in which the collapse of the wavefunction That needs to be there and current quantum mechanics doesn't have a theory Very different from my point of view. Yes, well you say. I would say the collapse of the wave which is a long way away And the physical process I have arguments which I put forward to show that the two great theories of 20th century physics are the two great physics or A: quantum mechanics, which came first, and B: Einstein's And what I am saying have an incompatibility. Quantum mechanics is based on the theory of a basic principle of superposition. You can have a particle in one location or it could be another location. That's another quantum state. And according to the basic you can have states where it's there, you have all these superpositions And that's very fundamental And the fact that you don't see most of by quantum mechanics. Now, on the other hand, general relativity which is the famous, well Galileo Einstein, Well Galileo explained it very well. Imagine dropping a big rock and a little And he knew that air resistance would make a difference but if you had no air resistance So as they fall, there is no effect, So gravity is the one force which I'm a little bit dubious about. It's the one feature of physics which you can cancel by free fall, and that feature is incompatible And you can make a little argument with each other and to make them you have to introduce this collapse It also gives you a measure of how much when you expect the collapse And it's not not a complicated problem, which was actually not original with me, had already found this formula I wasn't aware of this work, to show that this estimation for the wave function to if have an object, a big object magnifying glass of mine and I put it that superposition would not last, would it be a tiny, tiny, If on the other hand, And here and there. Well, it would probably, than the age of the universe, so there was a genuine form in it how long that superposition Before it collapses to one or the other, nothing whatsoever It's a physical formula, something It has not yet been because experiments, as they exist, sophistication in order to do this. There are experiments which are currently being done. I mean, not that they're not there yet, but they're aimed And my hope is that a bit And it won't be too long when I say not too long, Yeah, you can say it doesn't happen. I mean, that you have to have something the classical world. And if you don't have the collapse evolution of a state does not look like I mean, there are arguments which people use, you can look carefully at these arguments You have to have a development which has not yet All I can do is say the level I say the collapse. If you have a physical situation so and so, within 10 minutes say, But it doesn't tell you exactly It doesn't tell you which way It doesn't give you a mechanism It's just a formula which tells you in superposition And the connection with consciousness, my view, is quite secondary I think I would certainly agree It's very fundamental Consciousness is playing a big role, but it's a subtle role and it doesn't reveal itself until you have elaborate systems some are animals. Maybe, for all I know but I don't see it in inanimate objects. They're not sophisticated enough of the collapse of the wavefunction, I think it could be. I mean, if we understand, well we I would regard that as a small step. We don't have the theory yet, within the next 50 years I think that tells us we will understand it's a much more sophisticated concept. But what I am saying is the other way is, it's something So we're not going to have things in the universe are conscious. I mean even things like see you had mentioned Stuart Hameroff earlier, the connection with the microtubules and his job is an anesthetist or an anesthesiologist. His job was to put people to sleep. Except he doesn't call it sleep. It's a different phenomenon. General anesthetics and they have a very curious relationship For example, xenon, which is an inert gas, doesn't seem to have much Nevertheless, is a general anaesthetic. And what is the connection which act as general anaesthetics? As far as the chemistry is concerned it doesn't seem to be Nevertheless, and the view is they do, in his view. And, I think he's probably right. His view affect microtubules which probably does involve the collapse of the wave function. And their function is something because that's a subject and needs to be a lot of work to find out But it's a long way so I think that's Well, I think I mean, I think there's one confusion here, get really rid off in a way. See in the early days people worried about the collapse of the wavefunction, as a physical process. I mean, many people, I think because I talked to him I had conversations with Wigner and he had the view, as many others did, that somehow the collapse of the wave was an effect of consciousness. Let's just say, the terminology in quantum because it says, you induces the collapse of the wave function So it's rather suggesting and there's a conscious being comes along and looks at it, then that measurement by looking at it , if you'd like, So it's as though it's the consciousness the collapse of the wavefunction, It's almost the opposite, No, no, no, it's not that consciousness The collapse would take place quite beings or not. And I can think of a particular example, sort of thought experiment, if you like. I imagine that there's a bit of a distant planet somewhere It just happens that no life, But it's otherwise like the earth. Now the weather on the earth is supposed to be very delicate, So the people talk If the butterfly wing flaps one way, and if it flaps a different way. Then the weather might have So it's a thing, which means depends very, Okay. Now this planet that I'm imagining, Nevertheless, But since there is no conscious being or no beings, which collapse the wave function Collapse of the wavefunction Therefore you have weather which is and you have a space probe and takes a photograph Now there's no being no conscious being on the space probe. It just takes a photograph. Now, as it returns, it which is of a superposition and somebody on a big screen And as soon as that being looks, looks at the picture on the screen, The wavefunction happens because only then become part of the system To me, this is completely ridiculous. The weather is going to be one way or not. It's not because of living beings not because of consciousness It's because the collapse of the wave which takes place superpositions become large enough in a way in which that can be what I mean by large enough the wave function Well there you development in my thinking, which I don't quite know within the last five years I would say certainly, talked about it. There was a conference in Arizona. I think that the idea got developed since then, that you can't There are two kinds of reality. There's quantum reality and classical And quantum reality behaves in a way which is quite strange. The notion of quantum reality actually He talked about the quantum state. He said: Is the quantum state real or not? And a good example is the spin of a split in a half particle, take an electron Now, the spin of an electron, states are spin right so I can move my thumb about the axis Now all those different possible states, those are the possible Now what you can't do is ask the electron: Or you can try, but it doesn't give you any answer However, if you do have a theory spinning, say, and it has all but the same amount. That's an electron. It's always the same amount, about that direction. Now what I can do is I can confirm it, I can say to the electron, I'm in that direction, you got it right with 100% certainty You can measure it again And each time it says yes, it will give you a probabilistic Depends on you doing experiment many, many times Now, the quantum state is something in a sense that you cannot ascertain. You have to make a distinction Ascertaining would be something you say: It doesn't answer questions like that. But you can explain these rather puzzling things, In fact, these things called Einstein Where you can have a spin state which is Let's call them widely separated. And you know what? The total spin which has come from a spin zero And so they have to be opposite Not one of the individuals that instantly makes it the opposite, It goes backwards in time along the past is fixed by the measurement If that other one could ascertain you would then have a contradiction but you can't send signals faster It would lead you into contradiction What you could do is confirm that state knew what the measurement then that measurement would be confirmed, If you could ascertain it, you could send signals faster than light, Relativity wouldn't work, However, you can make this if that state is projected backwards along the past lightcones it goes not just simultaneously, But since that's only quantum reality, you cannot ascertain what that state is. So you have to make a distinction which cannot be ascertained can be ascertained. So you can ask the state what it is So as a solution, when you talk about reality. So reality. When you talk about quantum mechanics, the notion of reality It's not like classical reality Well you see it is not reality. It's quantum reality. It's not reality. See, that's the trouble When the quantum world is 'reality' Not many worlds. No, I'm against it. Well I have to be careful about this. I have I have a point of view. This has to be taken in the right spirit. But my point of view is that it's of your life, to have believed in the many worlds The shorter period the better. I did go through such a state myself interpretation and I hope, whether it was as long as a year. I am not sure. Well you say no, or you have to understand that And without having the quantum Philosophers without realizing this way, in which quantum states behave, and well this is the Bohm version of the Einstein Podosky interpretation, but I think Einstein wanted to do it But I think Podosky talked him out of it. You're talking about Can we talk about the reality of the world Is that the sort of question you mean? Well, I think there Okay. Philosophers and physicists Well, I'm not quite sure, let me know. You see, the computability I mean, that's whether you can compute the thing Also, when you talk about Qualia, I mean, we don't know. I mean, is the sensation of blueness If I see a blue entity and somebody else looks at the blue thing have anything that you could say I would just say, we don't know. It could well be that there is something We certainly don't know enough about that. I find where you have parts of the brain, then one sensation gets sort of confused It does seem to be between one kind of sensation and another kind of sensation, It may be that different people might say Well, And maybe there is something redness of greenness or something And if you have synesthesia of some kind, the blueness as green and so on, possibly I can't see anything against that tough. But it seems quite possible if you like, are things I don't know. I'm not trying to claim that I certainly think that as a pleasant level of understanding, and we can talk about it This one person has a certain sensation of being, and it's meaningless to say it's I don't know any answer to that. I really think there could be an objective. Oh, I see. Now, Yes, I would say it has an existence, Well, sure, I mean, Andrew Wiles x to the n, that you can have a sum of two squares but there's no other power gives you another thing I mean, that's mathematical statement Whether the universe had different independent is a mathematical statement How we come across to understand maybe very difficult question, how many people have gone I mean, not many, but But I still think he's right is objectively true or not even a different universe but I could imagine the universe which are not the same as ours, of conscious beings in their universe, to know how unique And could you change the parameters our physical laws, with some other numbers laws of physics, where the physical properties we don't know, but the mathematical laws So things which are the same, but that's going to be the true in whatever universe you are in. I think that is what you are referring to? Whether the mathematical world is an objective, well independent of us has existence. Yeah, yeah. Maybe, but I don't know. Of course, I knew Wheeler quite well but he was a hard person to understand, and I always find it rather difficult. He was always very polite I find if you talk to him, And his reply would be about 37 making that figure is not but it was always angled away and it was quite strange in some ways, But yes. I don't know. I got lost after a while. He kept talking about it's from bits And I think I lost at that stage. I guess it got to philosophical, I don't know, I just find it difficult to, I think quantum mechanics confuses That's the trouble people is not quite for the reasons It's partly because you have these you can't really ask of a quantum state. You can't measure what a quantum state is You can't you can't ascertain the state. You can only confirm it what it ought to be by now, very, very precisely test if you don't have any concept of what the quantum state is. Well, it may be that, you can't ascertain it with these Einstein You have to, and I'm taking the view with quantum mechanics. There is a notion of reality until you think about quantum mechanics, It's not a notion It's a notion that comes from physics. And it's interesting and different but reality is something, I've expressed myself on that before. Yeah, it's it's very clear. Well, you see, I think it's not I mean, that is an interesting question, it doesn't seem to me necessary that consciousness is causal in some sense I can imagine somebody being paralyzed I get this happens. People are completely paralyzed is actually conscious or not. And later on, you find that and you find They knew what was going on. It's just they couldn't influence anything We have a free is not so obviously a necessity. But what I mean by you can I can imagine without being able It seems to be something to be able to use one's is a little bit Now I'm not sure perhaps as strongly as I think Right? So it's not causal power because if you forget the technical term, but has no control over motions That person is still conscious. Yeah, that's right. You can't do anything with it, I would agree that clearly it does exist It's the fact that it can have Is the only reason and, as you said, there would be no point If it had no effective influence on the world I think that's absolutely essential, it's quite the same thing as being aware. Is that question for me? Yes. Sorry to you. Yeah. Yes, well have had thought a little bit I've often thought I don't really but I think I would like to say that What I think you see, you could say sometimes free will as oh, you can have a will Something like this. I keep being reminded that was two years younger than I was, But the thing that disturbed me stones and scissors, you see. Now, I thought that games of that game. So I went away and I got hold on a table in my father's study Three means this and so on, and I would follow this strip And then I broke even so, I got relieved. It's not that he was magic, and I think when I was trying to be random you see so free will is different You see, sometimes people suggest that free will means and therefore there's And I think that's the wrong way I'm not saying that this is your point of view But I am saying that it's See if I think action A and I have used my consciousness and I say, no action A And then when the moment comes, And I'm doing the action that was involved in my understanding like when you touch the stove, it's hot you pull you hand away and thing like that Something in a way which involves your understanding It's more like that, but it's not a complete answer The thing is, I don't know. You see, I think consciousness is certainly not restricted just to humans. That I am certain of. how far down? If I can use the word down in the animal kingdom, even plants, and how far does it go. See I think, I think. But even dog owners are very convinced that their dogs are conscious, I have no reason to disbelieve that. I think that dogs are conscious. I think that elephants are conscious. I think octopuses are conscious they don't have to be mammalian at all. But whether an ant is conscious Maybe, maybe not. Whether a honey bee is conscious, I think it might be, They seem to be able to even do simple arithmetic apparently. So how far down, in the animal kingdom, it goes. I have no idea. I think it probably goes pretty far down whether a bacterium I would be much more dubious about that, Well, it's got to be something. So I do think it's got something to do And since I argue it to be to do then you got to have a wavefunction collapse more than little wavefunctions So according to such a view, you'd have to have quite a big coherent You see, it's wrong. Probably to think of individual cells, I mean, many quantum effects When you talk there are many in quantum effects And in a certain sense extensive of quantum fluidity, and things like that. Sure, so it's not just thinking individual atoms, how much does each atom That's not the... I don't think that my view is changed The trouble is that you can get divisive these devices will not actually, well put it the other way around, but they won't be intelligent, and I think AI is a misnomer. So it means artificial intelligence. The fact that one calls it AI, is rather suggestive, but to suggest that you just have and then it will become For me, which I was trying to make came from the lectures given by Steen, which I formulated my viewpoint there what he showed really is not a computation, that you can you can put it in as much You can the thing make play chess, or make it play go better than But does it understand what it's doing? Well, it would have to be conscious Of course it's hard to formulate this to say you understand something. I might perform in such a way And the trouble is that I could imagine will get to such a degree whether or not it's conscious, And I certainly would argue that a computational system, in other words, Computer, Computer in the sense that we mean it which is a computational be intelligent, simulate the intelligence to a degree And it's a difficult question. And I would say that AI, and it has its dangers. The dangers are not that it will take over the dangers are that it would be misused, Well, that sort of stuff I still have my books. because I don't want to throw them out. But I have a difficulty that I can I have macular degeneration, which means I have to magnify I should probably put one of these reading devices I haven't done that yet Trying to, yeah. It gets more difficult as I get older, I get tired more easily. I has been great, I've enjoyed it too, yes.