All right. We had a long weekend. We're back to work. I'm in the office today. Cody's working on these quarter panels. We've got all the paint stripped off. We've got a few spots, we've got a little bit of filler on them. We're going to have this thing So this is what it looks like This is what it looks like being sanded. He's got Banana peel all over. So we're going to have both quarter panels primed and we're going to have all the jams ready. Can't make it perfect. We're just going Right here. And this is what we're going for. If it's too perfect, he won't use it. Oh, he'll use it. We're going to have him just show us OK, we got the body work and everything I went through Fit the roof skin, flatten out the metal, get everything to fit right So pretty much we've got everything all straightened out This is going to be an ocean, so there's not a whole lot we can do. You know what? It's going to be just fine. We're going to pull it out OK, so me and Taylor are going to get this He's been diligently whittling and by whittling, I literally mean Just if you look at the handle from the last time it was painted, We're going to edge this out and some tape We're going to prime the fender, and prime the quarter panel, And then we're also going to prime We're going to stay out of the A-pillars panel on. Once we put that roof panel a little bit of body work right here. I'm ready to go. Let's do it. OK, so since this fender isn't removable, and right down in here. So the best, quickest way is going to be with this wire Getting some more of that powdered gold right here. We're going to save that. All right, we're back on the Banana We've got all the edges sanded and now we're going to pre clean it right We're going to go. We're going to pre clean before we mask, and then our final clean Get it all wiped down. Put it in the booth. Put some primer on it. We can go surfing. Surfing on the quarter All right. Where's the roof? You know what? Nobody needs a roof. It's OK. So if you notice I just switched hands and crap on it, so I grabbed a clean rag And what that means is you know, like wipe, wipe, wipe it and then it's supposed to be done. But that's not real life. I'm going to wipe it down I don't know what to do. I'm new. So what we're doing here is we're masking. Time to get serious. We only use blue masking paper, This is the best paper on the market and it's expensive, And that's why nothing big or small collision or full repaint. We do it all. So a trick I picked up. If you don't want paint Nobody likes to paint in their cracks! Ah ha! Just shove a little cardboard in there. Seals it right up and we sell this cardboard online. If you are not a trained professional, This has been a public service And that is how you tape. So only trained professionals can carry OK, I've only cut my lip off once. Do not do this at home. All right, Me and Taylor are going to throw Well, we're not going throw it but we're going to back it into the booth. We're going to get it all bagged up, and then we're going to get some Won't start. It's not out of gas this time. Its batteries are unhooked. All right. That's got some ponies. You guys will notice right here. There's a big hole That's by design. Matt did that, So we're not doing any repair Nothing. In America, this is called a razor blade. But if you are from Australia, It's a rise up light. The nice thing about pre cleaning is you don't have to get super crazy with it So now all I'm basically doing that have came off of my fingertips That way, we don't have any fish eyes to prime it makes prepping it for So some of you may wonder what this is This is called a stat gun. It puts positive and negatively charged ions on the panel Most of the dirt and stuff to make it look I swear by this gun, I static control it every single time. K, I'm going to lay down the first coat of primer. So we've got three Now we're going to put We know where to sand to and when to stop. All right, so we've got everything primed. We're going to get it unmasked prepping on the inside We're going to turn that all yellow. We're going to jam We're going to start In here, we've got to prep the entire floor We've got to pull the steering column all the wiring has got to come out Ok, remember when Taylor I'm going to show you why we do that This is the cardboard You remove it. You can see no primer We've already sanded all that yellow. Now all we have to do is prep our primer, and that's all good to go down there to be painted. So it's that time. We're going to cut up the one off No pressure at all not going to screw up. And if I do, it's not like to replace it because there isn't. So I got Dinner supervising tonight, Matt was telling me something about how they had to bend these, and I cannot tell If you look back right here see how That's because we bent them. I might have to call Matt, figure out These two louvers are not square, ten and a quarter wide by 26 On this side, this side is about 27 by ten and a quarter We're not sure what to do yet, OK, so I've got a couple of questions I'm going to make a phone call to Matt. We're going to talk to him Hello Sorry to bug you again. The louvers on the hood right now Do you want that copied Square them up. I'm measuring it all out and trying It's not square. I just wanted to make sure Corvair decklid. Well, I appreciate it. OK, thank you. All right, We've got our tape everywhere So one cool thing you can do is you can do a cross measurement Last thing I want to do Perfect. Let's go over here. Oh, dude, I've got an idea. What's that? Go grab our mo clamp tram gauge. It's a stick with markers, measurements in the collision industry You can use a tape measure, So we might as well use it. Here you go, my master. You are dismissed. Just kidding. OK, so we're going to get our points set right there. We're going to do a cross measurement If you look right there. So everybody run out and buy yourself Okay, here goes nothing. We're cutting this sucker three cuts down, one to go. Oh, look at this. My wife found them, I actually own some, That is so much better. All right. That was extremely nerve wracking. We got one. We'll just round the edges, All right. So we got this cut out. Number two, we've got to put a bevel on each corner Super nervous, but I think we made it. It's squared up, so it's not laying over You complete me. All we're doing here is we're deburring it. Where's the marker? We were using the center of this cut off wheel to mark out our edges. &quot;I've been crying for three hours&quot; &quot;I've been waiting for hours&quot; &quot;had to put my makeup on three times.&quot; Hahah What are you guys talking about? Oh. And that is that now I can hear myself think again. All right, So this one is the only true louver that's going to have a breeze way Set these louvers We're going to cut this hole out. I'm not going to lie these actually turned out pretty darn good. But I think what we'll probably do and get them sandblasted That will make your prep a lot easier because then you won't have to go through I think this hood's going to turn out awesome. We've got a surprise, surprise We're not going to show it untill Anybody has an idea what we're going to do Drop it in the comments. Let us know what you think. Oh, hey, there guys didn't see you there. I measured off the other hood and they've They were obviously thinking Making it easy on me. I'm going to run a piece of tape Thank you, Matt, for making this simple. Put your hand right there for a minute. There's that third arm so that's where that louver's going to go This side's getting cut. That side I'm a body man, All right. So we got this one marked out. I'm just going to cut right here. So we've got a lip all the way around it for us to bolt it down to . We've taped it all out. So we've got to brace it goes right here I can't see it. I don't want to cut it. We got a Big Dinner on the ground. How is it down here, huh? It's quite cold and it feels good. I'll bet those sparks warm you right up. k push up Dinner. All right, that was easy. That is that Everybody whistle all at once now. And there are fighting words, Taylor. You want to have a little showdown. You know what I think about your earplugs. Dang! Let's have a little showdown. I got to pack my rifle up, We don't always work. Sometimes we have shenanigans. That sucker's loaded. I need a dead rest. Ready. Aim. Fire! Holy crap it comes out of there like a rocket. Oh look at that, ricocheted all the way back. All right, we better get back to work. We've just about got the last of the harness then we're going to take the column out. Then we're going to take the shifter Trevor should have fun putting this Just kidding. We're going to put all this wiring back in so that when it goes back to Matt But this is the whole dash harness. Sounds like I got Darth Vader behind me. Gonna figure out I'm going to take the gas pedal out and the cables like I was saying There's so much sand. I know I've blown this thing out like five times. OK, so everything is unhooked. We're going to take all the bolts out and we're going to take the steering And if you don't know what size All right. Just like that. So what I'm doing is dropping mount bracket out. So you can paint inside here. So that who can? Tell them. All right, is he is dropping out this mount bracket so that Robby and Taylor I don't think we'll be able to get this out. Matt!!! No. We thought we were in a predicament. They've got this bar completely It's really tight. Hillbilly kicked in his brain today, again and should come right out. OK, I'm going to go to the front one. This will be fun to put back in i think it's my vacation day when we have to put these back in. You don't get vacation. All right. That shifter should come out. You can clean all that off. Might have to get a new piece of foam, Yeah. two chunks out of the whole thing. OK, so I'm going to get to cleaning up this roof skin, Look, a gift came today, a whole box of ear plugs OK, so now that we've got everything ground down, we're going to use You'll see why it's called the crud thug. like a little thug. So what we're going to do now We're going to prep out all the outside put on, it's a lot easier Look Dinner! We got a gift. We got a gift? Yay, look, it's for you. Them are so beautiful. Oh, you got one blue and one purple. Yeah. I'm using the eraser wheel to take off all the leftover stuff from the moldings Next one. All right, so I've got Cody's pliers, They're copper faced so that when we weld So I'm using super low heat. If you look right here, you'll see that See, it kind of makes a little burn mark, and it makes it to where Once that's cool, I'll hurry and grind this down a little bit, and you'll never be able to Obviously, I know where it's at after a little bit of filler on that, We'll throw a little bit of seam sealer on there and that's it. All right. So this is the real reason We needed to weld the top sides of the roll cage bars. OK, now that we've accomplished we've got those welded. We can test in the booth Not too bad, actually. All right, right where we need it, but I've noticed that So I've got Dinner headed to get me I call it a t-handle puller. I brought your t-handle puller thingys. I needed one, not 100 One green, and one red. Thank you. You're welcome. So this allows me to get in there and just pull right where I need it. Just about got it. If you look right we can beat that into place up in here. So this is about right where we want it. A lot straighter, and then that cap is going to go down this drip The only thing we have left to do so that when we foam them, We'll be able to pull the skin off and I found the porta power. Look at it. it's dusty. This is a porta power. We're going to just push that roof up Hold it right there. OK, let off We put this roof skin on and we foam that K, it's just really flimsy, But I think that arch is where we want it. So let's get this one. Hold it, hold it. K, hold it Dinner I'm going to take a hammer to relieve some of the pressure. I think I think we're running into the same issue So when we go to put the roof skin on and then I'll move on to that side, where we need it. It wasn't too far off, so let's Got it. Okay, that's going to fit. Decent. Okay. What are you doing Hillbilly? I am. I'm bolting the receiver. That's going to be wonderful. one of the bolts is tucked in behind the exhaust. so I've got to beat this in, trim that a little bit Now I need some clamps. Basically, what I'm doing is dry It will all go together. That's going to work. So that's fitting real nice. I think we're going to call this good, the booth. We're going to turn the banana I can't hear myself think with these earplugs. So loud We're stuck! No longer stuck. How many roof ups can you do? One, two 13... 14... Don't quit now. Dinner's the winner. We work in the buddy system, so I'll hold the vacuum while he vacuums. That's what good friends are for. What's so funny, Dinner? You're good! All right. This leads us into our next project of seam sealing the inside so we've got 3M bare metal seam sealer best stuff out there. So rather than hand pumping, I went and got my bazooka. We've got Taylor applying the seam sealer. We've gone back and have brushed it. You can see in hear. Should help a lot. In case you're curious how far a brand new tube of seam sealer will go. It will seam seal one Banana interior All right, it's finally that time. We've got all the seam sealer done. All the fitting of the roof Didn't think it would be that big, probably three more hours So it's time to get the Banana Yay We got the littlist guy pulling. Don't drop it, Only one left Got to mask up underneath this dash. Me and Taylor got this all foxy, we've got to let it sit for one hour, some yellow throw down all the base OK, so we're going to mix up the yellow We've got a code that Jack got us off It's a little adjusted, so we're manually We've done it old school. We've wrote down all our measurements, I'm just going to put it across the scale shake it up and we'll spray it out. Who would have thought? So you just do little small amounts so you don't go over your numbers we can't recalculate it. Got it. Woo, almost went over. That scared the crap out of me, but I didn't. Got it. 22.9 little drops. It's the spot where it's easy We've almost got it all mixed up. Take it slow. We're using a medium reducer. That is Banana yellow. That's the color formula name. See what color that is. It's time to make this thing yellow. So the first coat is always transparent, you don't want to get too heavy, until about two or three coats So we're going to put down three. So this is what happens on New Year's Day when everybody's closed you scrape it out of the bottom of the Literally, we're scraping it out of this can. Desperate times Guess what time it is, it's time to make this thing shiny going lay down two coats of clear. All right, guys, it's been a lot of work, but we've got some color down You guys are going to be super happy when The banana is looking awesome, I'm going to be seeing yellow spots We appreciate all the love We appreciate all the comments. We're trying to respond to as many of you So if we don't respond to you, we're thinking about doing a Q&amp;A session or a meet the crew, answer any questions Let us know if that's something you'd be Drop them in the comments below. And as always, we appreciate you guys Thank you for watching. I'm only on your Channel for Matt's Banana. Banana. Soon as the banana has gone,