17 minutes. That's how long Americans get on public transit in To transit in the U.S. is awful, with few places it's infrequent. It's not all day. It's unreliable. Meanwhile, 45% of to public transportation The real problem in the transit deserts. I mean, these are just complete and total anywhere on transit, play, to pick up your depend on it. The U.S. spent $79 billion yet most public transit finding itself in a In 2021, the U.S. was $176 billion behind conditions of public That backlog is expected the year 2029. Ultimately, it's the the deficit. The pandemic money is And so there will be, I increases. But even more, politics of it, there and many places have So just how did public get so awful and can it The U.S. government has public transportation. When we talk about money funding. But when we talk money for roads, we often 'investment.' We're spending far more, on road improvement and on transit. For example. U.S. railways combining rail grew by 945 miles During the same period, over 100,000 miles. In transportation, we very If we're talking about transportation, it's very History plays a big role There was a time when the boasted a public transit of the world. Prior to 1920s, we had a in our cities. These were trams that were middle of the street. You convenience. They were didn't have to plan During its peak in the cities averaged more than year, but the electric from profitable. Inflation drove up the businesses were unable to and services quickly result. When the streetcar private, went to the and said, 'Please help state governments and of government wasn't period, basically turned By the end of World War I, companies were already in had found its newest People who wanted to sell as an all-purpose instead of a special And when they turned it convinced a lot of people everywhere and that modern, progressive city lets you drive And with the influx of policies, cities began to cars. They forced private whenever possible, to lines. They they created to speed up automobiles. They built parkways, they And when people said, really the right way to 'Oh, it's just supply and It's a free market. Drivers are voting with need to build the roads who are paying for them.' There is a kind of a time investment in highway transit infrastructure in There was at least 40 to federal government did transportation funding Today, that disparity is partizan differences. The ratio in which between highways and main point of contention infrastructure bill. Democrats wanted just 20% towards mass transit, for less. Democrats pass the bill through the We have identified the individual liberty. We also associate with suburban and rural transit, we associate Those correlations then correlations of similar more driving tends to be in more conservative, rural areas. A study from 2021 revealed respondents believe that shift more trips towards and bicycling. While 53% of transport policy should people to drive. The discrepancy was even or conservative It's very hard politically momentum. Cities are a states, very hard to get very powerful in almost very hard to get federal because, again, the because it's a relatively very small. It can be 1%, That's not the loud The loud voices are going Funding is one of the main state of public transit Right now, the federal services is largely costs, that means infrastructure or buying But the operating costs services are really Public transit relies because it's still far business. Take the MTA, public transit, for In 2022, less than a revenue came from rider By comparison, revenue subsidies from local its total revenue. The cost of living, the cost of construction, all 50 years has far exceeded fares. Current subsidies simply costs. The MTA's finances pandemic, resulting in federal government. Yet deficit of $1.9 billion This problem extends Philadelphia's SEPTA deficit of almost $269 Chicago's RTA predicts a by 2026, while LA Metro's reach $1 billion by the These financial deficits deteriorating services. If a transit system we can limit the hours of frequency of service, we the network. But all of ridership and encourage car. In a 2022 survey on transit, Americans chose arrival times as the would encourage them to often, right behind lower Public transportation is United States is because Mass transit needs mass Ridership has continuously after seeing a steep drop ridership has failed to levels. It's a vicious cycle, If we have less users, difficult to justify investment in that system more difficult to provide And because you have a service, you will users and riders. If the riders are either and/or do not provide a costs, you have to make subsidies. And in the structure of funding for insufficient to basically missing enormous chunk of and capital. But a thriving public beneficial for all The American Public estimates that 87% of benefit the local billion in transit the private sector. A dollar invested in to generate $5 in I mean, look what happened Where did where did second headquarters? Right? Right where one of systems operate. Transit is really great gives them more options We can connect people to including people who an automobile, which is a to buy and to operate and When you don't have else becomes a domino You may end up with not family and friends, not appointments and not able sustain your house. And in the end, it can themselves. The more we attract people other forms of public are driving on the roads. And that makes driving to drive. Ultimately, the future of whether it can receive needed to improve To break the vicious significant investment government. I mean, I local innovation so we this magnitude. We'd have to spend a lot to get systems that cost because you'd have more Cities can also be to better serve public The kind of density levels have, very difficult to transit, even busses. You have to create more particularly, this is to change the zoning and transit. I conceptualize public space. If you think about we have really help backgrounds come There is a diminishing have in our city. If we have good public it's like the core spaces backgrounds, different race, ethnicity to And I think that's very of our society.