In today's chess video, I am going to show Traps in the Englund Gambit. And plus, I also have a really interesting So stay tuned till the end and keep watching Chess Talk. Let's start with the opening. D4 and then E5. This is called the Englund gambit. This is not an opening I would recommend for many white players don't know how to respond especially in blitz and bullet games. There are some very nasty Traps that you can destroy your opponent if he does not play takes your pawn. He is getting it for free so why not. Then you bring out your knight to attack this White develops his knight and supports it. Then we play queen e7, adding another attacker. White brings out his bishop to defend. And that's when you play this stunning move, on the king and bishop. White has 2 logical replies. He can either block this check with his queen If he blocks with his queen, then he is gone. Let me show you how. After queen d2, we take this pawn on b2. His rook is in trouble so the only way he But to his surprise, we have this beautiful Now let's go back. In this position, if white blocks this check on b2. And now comes the most tricky part in the If white plays this move correctly, then he But if he messes it up, then it's curtains If you think logically, there are 2 main moves One is bishop to c3 and the other is knight The most tempting option would be bishop to I have personally seen most players moving format and that is a big mistake. Let me show you the consequences. After white plays bishop c3, we will play If he takes our bishop, then we can take back Now we are double attacking this pawn and This looks very unpleasant for white and there He will have to sacrifice his knight and then Going back, in this position, if he plays bishop. He cannot take back with his queen because So he will have to take with his knight, but And even if you analyse this position, more You should easily win it from here. Going back, now let me show you how white should play this. But wait, are you enjoying this video? If yes, then hit the thumbs up button right It really motivates me &amp; helps me in planning the future content on this channel. Okay, let's flip the board. We now know that Bishop c3 is a very bad move. The best move for white is knight to c3. There's nothing much black can do from here. I will go through the most common moves that If he plays bishop b4, then you can play rook to b1 attacking the queen. Then queen a3. And then you can play knight d5, attacking the time, threatening a fork on the next move. If bishop takes, then queen takes. Black is then forced to play king d8 to stop the check. Then you can play queen to g5 check and as from here so it should be a good game for Going back, in this position, if he decides this pawn, then you can simply play rook b5. Bishop d2 will lead to the same line as we And if he plays bishop b6, then you can simply Now no matter how he takes your rook, you King d8, knight takes rook. Queen takes knight. And still if you see, we are way ahead in an extra pawn as well. So again, you have a solid advantage. Going back, in this position, if black plays pawn, then you can easily diffuse this by Going back again, if he decides to run away with his queen like this, then you can attack it with knight to d5. And as soon as the queen moves, you can take Moral of the story is that if you play this dominating this game. Okay, so It's puzzle time. But before moving onto today's chess puzzle, learn some cool chess tricks and become a to our channel right now. And don't forget to hit the bell to turn on Okay, so here's the puzzle. In this position, It's your turn and you need If you are able to find the solution to this Whoever gives the correct answer with the comment at the top so that everyone can see it. All the Best Guys! Let's see how many of you can solve this. Well, don't forget to Like this video &amp; if Thanks for watching &amp; I shall see you in my next video.