Good evening. I'm SAYO. Today I'm going to use a bamboo ear stick. Then I'll start cleaning your ears. This may be rare. Lately, I've been using bamboo ear picks a lot. This is now my favorite thing. Actually, I have a story that I want everyone to hear. My great mother bought me a souvenir when she went shopping today. Souvenirs (OMIYAGE) from shopping (OKAIMONO). Is it weird to have two words followed by an "O"? This often happens with work emails as well. for example. I will contact you (GORENRAKU) with an explanation (GOSETSUMEI). I keep saying such polite words too much. How should I say it? Converting sentences into polite language. What do you call that? I'm not sure. This is difficult. What do you call the text you write in an email to a company? When emailing companies, we need to write politely. In Japan, there is such etiquette for sending emails. I wanted to study it in my high school class. However, there are no classes on such manners in Japanese schools. I have also talked about this topic with my friends. I once talked with a friend about why there are no classes on manners in Japan. Where do you study manners? until now. At my high school, there were no classes on manners. However, there are some people who work immediately after graduating from high school. Immediately after entering the workforce, you may be told that you have no manners. So where should we learn about manners? Should I get a part-time job and learn it? Experience work as a part-time worker before becoming a company employee. I think it is good to take such steps. I think that once you work there, you will be able to understand the feelings of the workers. You can also understand how difficult it is to earn money. That way, you can understand the feelings of the workers. For example, if you have worked at a restaurant, you will be more polite when dealing with restaurants. Many people say so. for example. If you've ever worked in a restaurant, you'll understand that the staff clears the dishes. Therefore, the dishes are sometimes placed side by side to make it easier for the staff to clean them up. is there anything else? Also, some people say to the staff after eating, ``Thank you for the meal.'' Some people say &quot;thank you&quot; when the waiter brings them food. There are many things that you will not understand unless you are on the working side. However, I don't have much experience working there. Some people may think, &quot;That's not what you say.&quot; I don't have much experience working. However, I have done several types of temporary work. I would like to talk about the best experience I had in my temporary work. This is a handshake event for idols. What would you call that job? It's like a guide's job. ``Next person, please move this way.'' I was in charge of guiding the people who came. It's like a receptionist's job. There was something about that job that I thought was really cool. It seemed like everyone who was there was having fun. Those people will now be able to shake hands with their favorite idols. So they looked like they were having fun. For example, in the case of a convenience store or restaurant. I think there are many people who go there who are in a hurry. At restaurants, there are many people who want food brought quickly because they are hungry. Convenience stores are visited by many people who are in a hurry to commute to work or school. So I think a lot of people get a little frustrated in places like that. This is just my opinion. I think so. However, when I was accepting reception for an idol handshake event, all the customers seemed to be having fun. That's what I thought was good. While working, you may hear conversations between customers. Their conversation also seemed very enjoyable. ``I just shook hands with OO!'' ``Who are you going to next?'' `` Next time, let's go shake hands with OO!'' I overheard these conversations. They looked like they were having fun, which I thought was nice. It's about their clothes. They wore keychains of their favorite idols around their necks. There was a photo of this size here. sorry. People who aren't looking at the screen won't understand. People who listen only to the audio will not understand anything. I speak in a way that even people who only listen to the audio can understand. They wore keychains with images of their idols around their necks like necklaces. Was my explanation sufficient? There were many people wearing idol goods everywhere. I thought they looked like they were having fun. Working people find it more enjoyable to serve customers who seem to be having fun. I felt that having a favorite idol is a great thing. There were some amazing people there. There were people who came to shake hands with the same idol over and over again every week . that? I think I saw him earlier. He came again. How many times does he come? There was someone who made me think that way. I found it interesting to observe people in this way. The work there was simple. So I was working while looking around. I thought that people were pleasant creatures. So that was good. This is not what I wanted to convey. What I wanted to talk about today is a different story. I wanted to talk about the drink my great mother bought me. How far did you talk? SAYO a few minutes ago! I forgot how far I talked. Hey, SAYO from a few minutes ago! Tell me how far I've talked! All you've said is that your great mother bought you a fancy drink. I see. My story wasn't progressing at all. I love Starbucks coffee, SANMARUKU, and McDonald's stylish drinks. It's a drink that's a mixture of several delicious things and topped with whipped cream. Also, it's a drink topped with chocolate or small fruits. I love such drinks. My great mother bought me a delicious and stylish tea-flavored drink. I was trying to drink it while doing the assignment. If I do my homework while drinking something, I get better at doing my homework. Because of this, I can do my assignments! I was doing my homework while drinking it. when I'm doing an assignment. I heard some noise. I heard some noise from the right side of the room. The sound sounded like a slightly muffled sound. I thought maybe there were insects. I thought it was an insect making a noise. However, the drink was the only one nearby that could hear the sound. However, the drink does not make any sounds like insects moving. It's hard to describe that sound. It sounds like PUCHI PUCHI. It's difficult to express that. It's very difficult to convey this sound to everyone. It's like this. There was such a strange sound. It sounded like insects moving. When I looked in the direction of the sound, all I saw was a drink. That's the drink my mother bought me. Maybe there are bugs in your drink? That's what I thought too. So I brought my ear closer to the drink. There was a sound coming from the drink. I was relieved that there were no insects. It would be scary if there were insects in my drink. This is something I heard later. Apparently something like that sounds when something on top of the whipped cream gets soaked in the liquid. At the beginning of the drink, there was still a jewel-like topping on top of the whipped cream. So I hadn't heard that sound yet. However, over time, they gradually found their way into the drink. No, I mixed them myself. At first I drank them without mixing them. After that I mixed them myself. And I was doing my homework while drinking it. Then I heard a sound like &quot;PUCHI PUCHI&quot;. What sound is this! That's what I thought. It was just the sound of the toppings on top of the whipped cream melting. That's all. BASKIN ROBBINS also has ice cream that makes a similar sound. I forgot the name of that ice cream. What is it? I can't remember it. Popping shower! It's a popping shower! is it right? Usually I check on my smartphone to see if it's correct. However, I am currently shooting a video. There was a topping in the drink that looked like a popping shower. It was on top of the whipped cream. Popping shower? Hopping shower? Hopping showers are different. What is popping? Popping? shower? Does it mean something like ARARE, which is pop and cute? What does popping shower mean? I can't tell what it tastes like just by the name. I like strawberry cheesecake ice cream the most. That is very delicious. I haven't been to BASKIN ROBBINS lately. I haven't eaten ice cream recently. I haven't eaten ice cream recently. I want to eat ice cream. Speaking of ice cream? What is the first ice cream that comes to your mind? This varies from person to person. I will write in the summary section of this video, ``Tell me your favorite ice cream.'' I once wrote there, ``Please tell me your recommended anime, movies, and dramas.'' Then, many people told me about it. I was happy about that. If you don't mind, please tell me your recommended ice cream. Please tell me your favorite ice cream. my favorite ice cream. This is difficult. Matcha flavored ice cream. I forgot its name. I forgot which company makes that ice cream. Cup-shaped ice cream with matcha flavor. I used to eat it a lot. When you ask people about their favorite vanilla-flavored ice creams, I imagine there will be many different factions. For example, SUPER CUP faction. What kind of ice cream is in the square cup? There are many vanilla flavored ice creams. It seems to be divided into many factions. People like such topics. How long will we continue to argue over &quot;TAKENOKO NO SATO&quot; and &quot;KINOKO NO YAMA&quot;? I know it's fun too. We don't want to decide which is tastier. We enjoy arguing. In other words, humans like to fight. no. We don't like fighting. Does this mean that humans like to debate? Some schools hold discussions in class. That's just part of the lesson. They are practicing expressing their opinions in class. Isn't it because they like debate that they have it in class? I like watching someone debate. For example, a discussion between high school students. That's interesting. I sometimes watch debate videos on YouTube. I've never done that. I'd like to try it. In a debate, there are times when I debate from a ``YES'' position even if I don't think ``YES''. That seems difficult. That seems difficult.