72.3% of your kitchen Hello in there. So here are three small projects cabinets and drawers. The first project is the easiest by far. It takes hardly any tools and that is optimizing your upper cabinets Now, this might sound simple and basic, That's the beauty of it. Now, just because they only give you three And this is going to be perfect for those cabinets to have items So all we have to do is start moving Then I'll show you how to add in new clips and make a shelf Once I make a lot of plywood projects I'm going to use this to find a piece. I'm just going to lay this shelf on top I'm just going to trace my line, Now, like I said, no fancy tools. I'm just going to using a circular Kraig straight edge, to offset for the circular saw Oh man. I have forgotten how much dust a circular Yes, you could use one. I am not going to do it I'm going to grab my tracks off which the dust collection I'll save your lungs. It is so much better. Oh, that was horrible. Now, hopefully you all know This is obviously not solid wood, to think that this is particleboard That's not even real wood. It is a sticker It probably even Oh, solid wood. Holding heavy objects So we are going to go ahead and put some and we are going to cover up this edge of the plywood So here's our iron on edge banding. This is birch veneer So all I'm going to do is use my hot iron, the edge of the board And I'll do that And then as that dries, that with either a chisel Then I can give it a sanding on the edges SH back in the kitchen and I put a couple coats of Amber and it is almost an exact match So I'll just put them in here All right, I move down these clips. Here's the original one. I'm just using these little shelf clips We'll put in the new shelf. There we go. Now, My tallest containers just fit in there. Plus, of course, the bins. Now we've got a whole other shelf on top. And it is awesome but storage now. And for the next project, the most wasted space of all, and that is By the way, I did do this pot land holder that was in a previous kitchen and since then But the Canada has not fallen off like The extra weight. It's fine. It's been three years, but I do have a pull out tray under here If you want to get anything from the back, The left Oh that it. Yeah I about it. I've shown how to make some of these but today we're going to make a super tray that's going to give us access to those items in the back I brought the tray out to the shop that goes in that area and the largest lid So as I make the shelf here, is high enough to clear the pot So I'm just going to take and for the depth, I'm going to just take I can grab some half inch plywood and the assembly is going to I cut the sides here on the table, saw for the shelf, but I want that So instead of measuring it just going to stack up my piece of wood And that way I don't have to worry about the undersized plywood See how the fit is. Just put my sides in here, Nina. Third arm. Okay, Brad, this is ridiculous. All right, now see how the fit is, all right? Now, this is the body, And so I'm going to cut to shelves, and that's going to double our shelf space And I'll make them But one thing I do want to change is because don't want that hitting anybody So use this roll of blue tape and then we'll cut that out So make the cut. I'm going to just be using the jigsaw to make sure that we don't get tear out on the top. So I put in this specialty This is their 14 to 4 inch ultrafine and it actually has teeth going in So that helps prevent I got these from Home Depot and the cut quality on both side I'll have links to homedepot.com and I'll talk about I'm using along the way and we everything is edge, banded And it was a little tricky but I just took my time and ironed it on I'm going to go ahead and put these I was going to use some pocket holes, that's really difficult. So I'm just going to go with some good and of course some glue. Well, luckily that blowouts on the back and I'm just going to lay I'm going to go ahead and fill all the Now, once the glue and putty is dry, This is all dried up. And I went ahead and put a couple coats And then after I did that, If you put the finish on first, when you're drilling those. Now, we can just put that in. And the nice thing about adjustable set it in place, and then never adjust them again, All right. The fit is great. So I'm going to go ahead We'll put it in there, get it, load it up and get the slide down tray back in there. Now I can put the insert in and I did so it would be lighter because three Let's push it back in there and I but I'm just gonna let it sit there, back. I got it, installed it all loaded up. And this is going to Check this out. Before I had to move these balls But now I can access them all at one time. And also I've got extra storage here. These fit perfectly. I can even add a few more things up top. If you didn't want to hang you could always use this for pot another shelf in there to hold more them I'm attacking this junk drawer we have supply store in here. We've got the pins, the pins, all the markers, the scissors, Excuse me. I believe you have my stapler, because it's all jumbled together. So I want to make some sort of fighters in here and make it double decker top layer and have a place for everything just like a happy engineer wants it. You know, as I change to the black version these shirts are available on our website as well as plans a great way to support the channel fixers Now there are plenty of store but obviously we want to have it And so that's why we're going to make it So I've got these little trays in here and I think the easiest way to figure out and start kind of playing around with it the items and see how they fit. I lined up some spots here with a large area for pencils and pens So I'm going to use this quarter inch poplar board to four different strips And then we'll talk about how And I got my four parts strip down finish on them It's the ultimate polished finish blade. I have a link down below to that. Now the tricky part about building a grid like this is how to connect everything So I think the way that I'm going to do and that is just a little notch So I'll start by cutting those outer and I'll use the door for reference it just so I can get that perfect fit And I'll be doing all those cuts And I do have the Diablo 12 which is basically the companion And this will give us nice clean finished ends and put the parts in and they're fitting. Great. Now what I need to do is start lining out And then I can go over and cut them is cut them in pairs so that those dados same spot got laid out. And here's how it's going to look and I can just cut the little pieces But what I'm going to do first and just glue up the outer corners first. And you could also do rabbits But I think glue is going You don't need much glue here. Just a little down, will do you while waiting for it to dry. I'm going to go ahead and I'll cut those first two sections until we put it in there All right, to Little Mountain Dew break, I'm just going to friction because I think it's And I have a fear of commitment. And if I want to change this around, All right, so I'm just going to snap these guys in here, and some of these others just because of wood. All right. Now, all I right here for this last piece, with the bottom right, see how that fits. All right. Let's make sure this band ball And it doesn't at all. That is almost exactly how I laid it out. But, you know, Now, you can just stop here and have as many little dividers But we're going to go one step further so that we can get double the storage And instead of boring you guys, And it looked a little And the only difference is, is that now so that it can slide So I turn it upside down. I'm just going to put a little bit of glue And I'm not going to use any fasteners out the sides. Now I can take And these one, two, three blocks for to be great weights to just hold it down, Actually it was not have enough and that should do the trick I got the tray sanding and finished up. Now I'm going to take all this inside and to two by four And here's the trick to make sure I'm going to grab the base and now I'm going to slide it And with that two by four in the back, keep this bottom tray from sliding back All right. This turned out really nice. I have my little pencils, my pens, and everything is separated And it is just a great way to take I don't have any you know what I mean? If you want, I got to play this cued up for you And if you like what you're seeing, thank you to those folks who have been And until next time, guys