Do you need to expand your vocabulary so Well, today you'll add 33 words to your Welcome back to JForrest English. Of course, I'm Jennifer Nell, Let's This means possible to do easily or conveniently. Now, this is commonly used in practicality how practical For example, switching to renewable energy may not be easily or conveniently done in Or for an everyday example, you could getting a high IL score becomes Do you agree with that? If you do, put that's right, that's And don't worry about taking notes because You can find the link in the This is a person who advocates for who supports Now, this is frequently seen in and research in both speaking and writing, So this is people who support who that it provides a sustainable I am a a proponent of of supporting any, any foundation, any, any type of group As you know, I, I, I've been a a very strong the both the need and the opportunity to I'm a huge proponent of all of us being Independent. #3 deploy, deploy. This means to move into position for action or it can mean to utilize This is often used in writing to So the use of resources or for example, the government, this The government deployed emergency teams, so they put those teams in position So how did they use them strategically, perhaps Deploy algorithm and accidentally deploy #4 Notable. Notable this means worthy of attention or notice. It could also simply mean remarkable. This is commonly found in writing to highlight For example, one notable difference One important difference between rural and urban lifestyles is the level of African soldiers proved to be notable jungle aspects of how we painted at this time This well preserved church is tower that has been struck by lightning #5 detrimental. Detrimental This means causing This is used in writing mainly to discuss negative You could say while many aspects excessive screen time can have a detrimental So this is a great word to have that Can be detrimental. Matt, you're a detriment here. Bitterness would be detrimental to my recovery. Number six, mitigate. Mitigate. This means to make less This is useful in writing and speaking to especially in environmental contexts, For example, countries worldwide are investing in renewable energy as a means to mitigate So to make those effects less serious With mitigating circumstances #7 Discrepancy Discrepancy This is a lack of compatibility or similarity This is commonly used in writing when For example, a noticeable the reported income levels of So the discrepancy is that difference. Why is there this discrepancy? It seems that we're doing but typically I could find a discrepancy and And any discrepancy should hopefully be external. So as I go #8 resilient. Notice that resilient, resilient. If someone is resilient, it means they're able to withstand or recover quickly This is very useful in speaking and or individuals facing challenges, For example, communities affected by natural rebuilding their lives and homes so they're able It's time to embrace a resilient, strong We can push for a safe, kind, resilient and human. Digital Future People are leaving economic reasons #9 alleviate, alleviate. This is to make suffering or This is commonly used in writing and speaking to discuss solutions to societal For example, local governments are to reduce housing shortages in Do you know this one? Vulnerable. This means susceptible to Again, this is often used in health, and even environmental concerns. You could say older populations are more to health issues, which means they Vulnerable, especially during He's vulnerable, vulnerable. Being vulnerable #11 paradigm. This one is very common paradigm. This is a typical example or pattern of something. You can think of it as a model. This is frequently found in writing to You could say the adoption of digital technology in classrooms represents a So a shift in thinking in education. Is that it's a paradigm that's trying to. Hold us back. So it's kind of a new paradigm that actually seems but also in the foundations of and possibly in areas like I believe it's time to reject that old paradigm #12 viable. Viable. This means capable of working successfully. It can also mean feasible. So it's very important to learn alternatives, And if you want to discuss these same issues, So now we have viable. This is used in discussions about For example, solar power, you could to traditional energy sources in many Notice that silent G Benign. 9. Benign. This means having no significant Negative effect. This is commonly used in discussions about impacts and effects to talk about For example, despite initial fears, the new construction projects are expected So it means the new construction They don't have a significant effect. They have a benign effect. It's benign. Were they benign, fine and benign? #14 conducive. Conducive. This means making a certain situation This is common in discussions about environments For example, students suggest A space free of clutter, free is conducive to better concentration and It's not conducive to health. That engineer wasn't conducive, right? Doesn't, isn't. Conducive to rhyming. Well #15 incentive, Incentive. Do you know this one? This is a thing that motivates or This is used in discussions about You hear this frequently. For example, to reduce emissions, the government introduced financial incentives for So those companies will get something in return, an incentive if they invest in This means to produce by assembling This is often used in academic For example, the researchers compiled data from numerous sources Compiled them in our data processes Who? Who? Compiled this map. 17 Contradictory Contradictory This This is used in writing when discussing For example, the study presents with one portion indicating benefits and So they're opposed to each other. Risks and benefits and risks, they're Saying that out loud almost sounds contradictory. Upside and grief. And honestly, our physics is telling They allow us to interpret its #18 Foster Foster This is to encourage or something good, and this is commonly used in Educational institutions should foster creativity, encourage creativity because it is positive and Retention. This is the continued possession, This is used in writing when discussing Very common in employment, for example, employee Employee retention remains Employees leaving as high turnover can This is to represent by a drawing, This is common in discussions about art and For example, art from this. Typically depicts scenes so in that so depicts scenes of everyday life. Show casting rural traditions. Inside the church, the paintings depict scenes from the Old and New Testaments Would it would depict it as an illustration of the The paintings depict the image of a chair in 21 to steer clear of. So notice here we have a phrase This means to avoid someone or something. This is used in speaking and you can use which is very common on IELTS. For example, health professionals of to avoid processed foods to maintain This means not involving anyone or anything else. It can also be a replacement to to clarify specific points or responsibilities. For example, the success of the project So it does not only depend on funding, So this is a nice complex sentence and Abundant. Abundant. This means existing or It also means plentiful. This is commonly used in discussions The country is known for its abundant natural Public. Space must be as free and abundant as the. Air we breathe. Fishing near the village, seals To speak of, it does have abundant We can't all duplicate. That 24 Sustainability, ustainability. This is the ability to be maintained This frequently appears in discussions Investing in renewable resources is critical You will absolutely hear this word, Biodiversity can contribute Community and I think. The main way I. Think you. Should look at it is. About sustainability. Sustainability, it's become something striving for because we recognize what's 25 Assess Assess This means to ability, or quality of something. This is common in writing when discussing example, teachers assess students understanding It assesses test, assess your options. Interesting assessment. 26 Target Target This is an objective or So you direct your efforts toward a target. This is commonly used in writing, especially You can say the initiative targets a 25% So notice here it's a verb. The initiative targets to target. This is also a noun odd target. The target is a 25% reduction. 27 Illicit Illicit. This is to get a response, answer or fact from This is commonly used in writing when For example. The questions were designed So to get real honest responses Decipher. This means to interpret or to make sense of A synonym is to decode, to decipher, to decode. This is commonly used in writing when For example, scholars spent decades so attempting to understand the Professor Arm wants to decipher which data invasions, and to set safeguards for a better Students with hearing loss rely more. Heavily on visual cues to decipher. What is being said? And now we have the capacity to decipher 29 Fluctuate, fluctuate. This means to change or vary irregularly, so not by following a pattern This is commonly used when discussing the For example, the stock market fluctuates. It's up, it's down, and It's irregular. The stock market fluctuates dramatically Any weight fluctuations? Is weight fluctuates? Any weight fluctuations? #30 Outline Outline. This is to give a summary of something and is often used in writing to present For example, the professor outlined the Just the outline. Anything you outline with 31 Promote Promote This means to support in discussions about public health, For example, government campaigns often promote 32 Habitat Habitat This is the natural This is commonly used in discussions For example, protecting forests is The homes of numerous species. 33 Augment Augment. This is to make something This is common in speaking and writing in systems, infrastructures or even skills. For example, the government allocated additional help improve the size or state of these public Now you have 33 new words in your vocabulary. And I'm sure when you review the free lesson PDF, You'll learn many, many other words Do you want me to keep making these If you do, put more, more, Put more, more, more in the comments below. And of course, make sure you like this lesson, share it with your friends and subscribe so And you can get this free speaking to speak English fluently and confidently. You can click here to download it or And you can keep expanding your Make sure you watch it now.