One of the most important questions of our of philosophy is how we can find ourselves, we can find meaning in our lives. In order to answer such questions, we dive who is one of the greatest thinkers of all He was famously known for his unconventional of his controversial work, he proved to be into the true nature of human psychology, can shape their future by taking responsibility Nietzsche wrote several books, and his teachings psychologists to poets, dancers to social According to Nietzsche, finding yourself is life and so here are four steps, inspired which you can take from, to help you get closer want to become. 01. Don't follow the herd mentality values, what we have called truth, has always those who promoted them." Nietzsche believed a rigid societal code creates Like a herd of animals, a herd mentality aims of its population. Similarly, the "moral code" of society imposed on other people so that society can Although that can protect us from certain individuality and creativity. Not only that; but the strict dogmatic judgment more rebellious, resulting in extreme antisocial If these dictatorial boundaries and rules the rebellious response can often be equally If the moral code of society is flexible enough, not have to be particularly forceful to make In real life, more often than not, it's strict way. It is not only that the societal, religious way. It is also the attitude of the majority of the group in fear of being rejected. Therefore, every person that stands out &quot;too those groups, is someone that seems terrifying It is a well-known fact that people are afraid in this dynamic. This can be seen in our everyday lives. Whether it's the middle ages or the modern Whether it's Galileo being killed for thinking ridiculed you or some other student for being from the same cloth. The herd consists of people that have amputated feeling insecure and even threatened by everyone Those people are afraid of change, afraid potential has not been fully realized. Although that realization is scary, an individualistic be dragged down by other people's mistakes Instead, you need to go your own way, leave bright that it can't be ignored. You can start by questioning and silencing when you were young. Whether it's a parent, a harsh teacher, told you that you can't do things that you they were afraid of your success, because them. So they wanted to limit your individuality Also, being strong minded and courageous helps out of your comfort zone, since it's an 2. Embrace the difficulty of self-discovery too high to pay for the privilege of owning Our instinctive and intuitive reaction is The technology and the easiness of achieving forgotten that suffering is an integral part However, according to Nietzsche, it's only of life that we are spiritually growing. In 1873, when he was 29 years old, Nietzsche we find ourselves in a beautiful essay titled In this essay, he argued that if someone wishes potential, they need to take the difficult Being a loner is not easy, but this is one of owning themselves. To keep yourself from being overwhelmed by others, you need to strive to be free and your life. You should refuse taking an easy path and gaining your freedom to be yourself, no matter To be free means also to be free from all other words, to not let them drive you, but For example, whenever you feel an emotional somebody in a very passionate way, you must and then decide if you should act upon it Nietzsche's philosophy on this point is gurus and 'thought-leaders', but the similarity If motivational gurus focus on self-development and a fulfilled life on a material and relational For him, the fight is an inner fight, the is a much more difficult quest, requiring For example, if a motivational guru teaches popular and attract investors for your business, primary root of your desire to be confident desire to impress other people such as your point about yourself to society in general. A simple analysis might make you give up this in your life, on much deeper issues, like And this endeavor might make you a loner. Not accepting to compromise yourself can very It means changing your lifestyle, it means to look deep into your fears, to analyze your above them. You have to break down the chains of opinion Nietzsche encourages us to &quot;challenge our out, as, beyond them, there is a deep meaning You need to get out there in the world, do but be always present with your entire consciousness, a distinct strength of character and a much If you don't go out and experience life claim you have lived your life. How far you can go depends on how much you To reach the state of self-ownership and to way, without direction, you must learn how To get in touch with your inner genius, you as you are unique and no one can walk that Finding yourself is finding your uniqueness, love and which represent you. 3. Say yes to what gives you meaning bear almost any how" say yes to whatever gives us meaning in our In ages past, the meaning of everything was However, according to Nietzsche, in an increasingly longer turn to religion to find meaning. He found this concerning, as the typical person apathy and an unwillingness to find meaning So he offers us three solutions that we, as in our lives. His first suggestion was to replace religion and other parts of the humanities to provide The humanities offer us the ability to contextualize to see our lives as not so different from They can offer insights into how we might However it is important that we see them as study; reading history not just for the facts, them as a way to edify yourself, or watching in sad events, not just the entertainment. If humanities do not interest you, then Nietzsche The Ubermensch is a superhuman that creates to outside influences. Such an individual can overcome the problem his own meaning and taking full responsibility According to Nietzsche, only a few men came Julius Caesar, Napoleon Bonapart, The Buddha For us humans, we can hope to find some meaning we really value and what things we only say Nietzsche sees the psychological evolution one which we should take a part in. If becoming a superhuman isn't something method to find meaning, which is loving your Amor Fati, the love of fate, is one of Nietzsche's us a great deal of solace when we most need To love your fate is to know that everything the bad, and indeed the ugly, has contributed very moment. Trying to create yourself will lead to some your successes can help re-spark the love it even in the worst moments. 4. Find your true values night a demon were to steal after you into This life as you now live it and have lived times more ... Would you not throw yourself who spoke thus?" Nietzsche believed that we need to create The 'Greatest Weight' is a metaphorical the feeling that crushes you into repeating values you adopt from your herd. The goal of this concept is to make you ask or are you just acting out what your herd If you think that the things you are doing be sure you are fully individuated, you will greatest weight&quot;. If you do not think that the way you have chances are, you haven't formed your own and worse yet, to yourself. If you find yourself repeating the same mistakes the chances are, you haven't reevaluated Thus, you are not a fully developed individual, Once you reevaluate your moral landscape, How many times have you found yourself turning because you didn't want to confront the Or how many times have you heard your friend with identical problems&quot;. If you were your own, with your own set of in toxic relationships just because it's You would know that it's just you just trying and that's not worth it. Nietzsche suggests that "in every little more and innumerable times over?" If the answer is no, then you need to change and only then the weight can be lifted. True good lies beyond standard definitions Most of us live our lives in our self-imposed Our jail cells are blandly pre-subscribed and individualism of the human spirit. Many of us submit to the comfort of this cage. Nietzsche recognized that we can escape our to what we value personally. To break free and to create your own values transformation, you have to go through this You need to have the courage to break the and perhaps you even have to distance yourself It doesn't need to be a violent and sudden calm, but definitive one. You can start with making a list of everything to be yourself. It can be an unfortunate unwritten rule at always tries to control and correct your behavior, who criticize you when you behave in a particular Once you've done this, try to think of possible maybe you could have a discussion with your perhaps you talk to your colleagues or supervisors you are experiencing, how it affects you and find new friends who can appreciate you better. When you feel overtaken by "the greatest but instead you need to breakout from your the dreams that give meaning to your life. If you enjoyed this video, please do make Life channel and for more videos to help you wisdom, don't forget to subscribe. Thanks so much for watching.