10 days, no speaking, no eye contact, no phone, 12 hours of meditation a day. Hey there guys, completed a 10-day Vipassana course. don't think I've ever done this before, but I don't know, hold away in my room about weird to be speaking. I got back yesterday own voice. It's just been me in my head. this feels like a very vulnerable video and to the Vipassana at all. Firstly, because I was Actually 25% of the people on the course left at you get so used to the presence of the people their meditation pillow would just be removed and just been eliminated and you don't know why, you glad to say that I completed it. But also in whole idea is that you come past the conscious of having no input from this distracting world with? What are you still thinking about? It's don't even know that we have every day. And it's a We're going to do it. This experience absolutely ways that I can't wait to talk about. It is the such a renewed sense of clarity in my purpose this spark of who I am and who I want to be, and think especially when I was 17, 18, starting this but over time I've really lost it. I've lost that used to come so naturally. And I think a difficult time in my personal life around And then uni was so intense. Moving countries these cities and then just being ripped away. It many things in life that were a lot. And yeah, really put a finger on it. And it's weird because happier, these things you should do, these good there was this underlying sense of myself that So I'm going to talk about it. And I was thinking inspired to go and do a Vipassana course because have had, then it is so worth me sharing. here we are. That's a little rambly intro. So casual everyday thing people are chatting about. I she did it in the summer after first year. And &quot;Is that a cult?&quot; Like 10 days of silence? That's She was my guinea pig. It's actually not attached any background can do it. It's also free, donation accessible. Yeah, so she came back from that and the most clarity she'd ever felt in her life. clocked, &quot;I should probably do But that was not going to be that year. It was going to be third year or fourth year, but then when I went through the really tough it just felt like gut feeling, this is the year, Year's resolutions. At some point this year I I don't know when, but it'll happen. And in that hectic time, two of my best friends were person dropping them off that day, and just being of why they were doing it in order to process post-grad life, I realized, why am I stalling? up the retreat that my wonderful friend Leah went was the day that they opened the course for a place. It sells out like this. You have to looked it up. So I booked and got on, and yeah, right time for me.&quot; There is so much to say, chronologically through the days and then talk out of it. But before we do, I am truly, truly I feel like they could not be more perfect. when I was 16, because I was introduced which made me actually grow up resenting anything cool when your mom does it. But I came to senses to learn meditation was this amazing app called know where to start because of so many different just sit there and breathe?&quot; But they make it so everything from sleep meditations to meditations visualization meditations. They also really you up like a daily meditation if you don't And the whole app is just so colorful and bright exam season, during my GCSEs and A Levels. I would do a positive visualization meditation and methodical. And then every morning I would do And if it wasn't for that introduction to would have felt confident enough to do a Vipassana exists. And if you're interested in one day meditated before, you want more calm, you want out Headspace. I'm so grateful to them because completely free for 60 days, which is amazing. it into your life in a way that feels right for the description box or use the QR code here if you'll see how much meditation has changed my life if you haven't meditated before, definitely trusty notebook, because as soon as I came out write the whole time, the whole 10 days. So every Jade?&quot; I was using all the techniques I making my visualization palaces like, oh, I just really didn't want to forget so that I could So as soon as I got out, I grabbed my notebook and all the days. So I'm going to let you into just going to take you through the days and my So it was in Hereford, which is an area of the UK. train to Gloucester Station and then outside up by a shuttle bus organized by the center, and really know where to wait for the shuttle bus. So &quot;What? Now?&quot; Slight anxiety, but I'm people standing outside the station, but I taxis or people are waiting for friends.&quot; phone. Most people were on their phone, but he was and he's just looking into the clouds now that is a meditator. You cannot tell here today at Gloucester Station. No, he is &quot;Okay, I am in the right place.&quot; I was going my last goodbyes to all these people, all going to be online for 10 days. But seeing &quot;Let me do that too.&quot; I was like, &quot;Let me put sure enough, the coach arrived. I was in the right the station were all waiting for that coach. retreat. And I think I was shocked by just how all walks of life, all ages, just not your oh, expecting everyone to be wearing white. So I sat down near the front by the window. And because who got on was taking another seat that was free. I was so excited to see who would be sitting next the first person that I meet, one of the few silence.&quot; So I'm sitting there, I'm waiting for filling up, so people are sitting next to people. and she just looked cool. And I was like, she didn't. I was like, &quot;That's fine.&quot; And incredible braids came on and I was like, &quot;Oh my hear her story.&quot; And then she walked straight person who came on just kept walking past my don't look approachable. It's fine.&quot; I was just this girl who just looked so young and just also, we're now very good friends, but she had such I was like, &quot;Oh my God, bless you.&quot; And she painfully shy that I was like, &quot;Oh my gosh, I horrible forcing her to speak.&quot; She just looked we were both just sitting there in silence and know each other. And then there was just like But I was like, &quot;Oh, I really want to get just do it. Just be brave.&quot; I was looking out So I was like, &quot;Hi, what's your name?&quot; And she was journey was so nice because we just slowly And the reason that I bring up this moment next to me on the coach, ended up being and someone I felt so connected to without ever feel so grateful to the universe that we happen she just absolutely revolutionized my experience. found out about Vipassana from Leah's Field Notes, bonded over that, which is nice. And then after it was like beautiful rolling hills of England, it was a nice building. We offloaded the and already people were starting to be quiet. silent retreat, you're like, &quot;Do people actually talk?&quot; So there, the silence was already falling went in, we did registration. We went into the talked a bit about why we're here, any mental women and 50 men. But then from that moment stayed with the women, the men stayed with the but all of our dining, all of our residence halls, Then I got given my key to the block. So I went I had to lock away all my tech, my phone, a bunch This was a silly move. I was trying to be such in my suitcase. And then I was like, &quot;Oh, let Don't need to think about it. Don't need to think so many things that I put in my backpack electric toothbrush, silly decision, and I left which shouldn't have been a big deal because I was in the locker and I couldn't access it, umbrella in there, and it ended up raining almost I really should have thought more. But anyway, would not be able to see my phone or speak to And then I got my little suitcase with all rolled it over to the block. And the way that my for different age groups. Mine was a long corridor school, you have music block and stuff. There was rooms with curtains. So they weren't full rooms, I was very pleasantly surprised that we got our used to having roommates my whole last four years, I really liked that you had the presence of others girl that I sat next to on the bus, Alicia, she And then I met this other girl who watches my say that she was coming, so it was really nice dining hall for all the information. And imagine woman who was in her sixties, and I remember her &quot;It's okay, we'll just, we'll sit there.&quot; Then person that she spoke to at the whole place. She breaking her silence. But anyway, and it turns out Netherlands, where my mom is from. And it is so the Netherlands, or at least in my experience. tried to find one across the whole of Europe, she was just so surprised too, that I had the we were speaking some Dutch, and it just felt She was so commendable. She's 64 and she works heavy work. And so part of her being there was woman. Yeah. So these three people, and then one only people I spoke to before the silence began. else's stories, just these three. So in the dining we had an explanation of how everything the silence began. There was no more speaking Speaker 2: noticing how the body feels right now. Jade Bowler: 4:00 AM, you get a gong, boom. Gong waking you can go shower, whatever. And then by 4:30 there from 4:30 AM to 6:30. So two hours of just breakfast. And the food was so amazing. It was wanted. And it was all cooked for and served by to serve back for the people who had served for you could walk to this woodland space. There AM to 9:00 AM was an hour of meditation. Then AM till 11:00 AM is two hours of meditation. lunch, you get another rest break. And then at 12 with a teacher if you want to clarify anything the afternoon begins. Imagine guys, 1:00 PM to meditation. Another hour, right? Five minute like an hour and a half, an hour, an hour and you're just sitting there like, &quot;Oh get a break and I'm here again in my head, Ooh, I actually didn't really know that. I just signed there's no dinner, you get two pieces of fruit. you only get lemon water. Some reasons that they you're able to meditate better. You don't do any because they say that strenuous exercise is a be putting a bandaid on them. You should be no physical exercise. So in a way, you don't need so you can meditate better. Also, you're going so you don't have to digest as much. So you can get more into the technique, you're practicing and applying that to your day-to-day life. to sit with this craving of food and to have to, I some of the rationale. But in my experience, first day. First day obviously is hard because I just felt fine. And almost everyone I spoke to to say that this would be hard for people who have which I can definitely see. So know yourself. that's a trigger for you, then, maybe don't who come do suffer with addictions of experience. Anyway, that was a long story. hour of meditation, an hour and 15 of teachers' day. Everyone would come and sit in the hall and teacher called Goenka. He's one of the founders video is from 1991, and yet it is so relevant, so and I learned so much from these videos. So another hour of meditation, and you go to bed at head hit that pillow at 9:00 PM, I was out like some people have this bias. I've had it too. This yeah, just very chill. But this was not to relax. You come here to work. Vipassana is Speaker 3: And with the next out breath, Jade Bowler: ideas called Sila, Samadhi, and Panna. Sila is the unless you do this. You take these moral precepts. They're very basic. Things like, &quot;I will not kill, I will not do sexual misconduct, and I will not silence, because naturally we tend to exaggerate so that just prevents you lying. You take your of focus, cultivating your ability to focus on ability to focus on your body sensations without first three days cultivating a strong samadhi. hellish. All you are doing for 12 hours of the day in through your nostrils. That's it. Just focusing your nose, and the feeling of your exhale on this entire attention is just focused here. You're breathing exercise up and down. You are literally your nostrils. And the reason for this is it's Initially, you don't feel sensations on your that in day-to-day life. But by the third day of the most fine sensations that you can the air coming in and how it's different You feel little tingling on your nostrils. your lip. So it really sharpens your And then when you've cultivated your samadhi, which is where you get into the panna. And panna subconscious and learning about yourself, what we actually are learning, the nature of the is focused on panna, on wisdom. Vipassana really ever done a body scan meditation, that's what head. You imagine the sensations right here at the inches, two inches, two inches, and you just feel inches to the crown of your head, to your and you just deeply feel all the sensations. entire body, down your back, down your front, down legs, all the way into your toes, and then you sensations in your body, and you do that for 12 and so it would not do anything that life changing happens is... Let me try explain it. It's hard. you start to notice sensations on every part of tiny spot on your back,&quot; and I would feel it. Or would be able to feel a sensation there. Because vibrations, sensations everywhere in your body. we are, our consciousness, our sense of self, our millions of biochemical reactions happening in our is so dominant, we are used to ignoring it day-to thinking about actual objects. So we ignore all feeling them. Our subconscious is always aware on your arm. And so you itch it without subconscious has recognized that your conscious get into the subconscious mind, is we notice all develop wisdom through two core ideas. The first is impermanent. If you have strong sensations of impermanent. At some point, that pain will pass. really pleasant sensations, at some point really fundamentally understand the idea that develop this idea of equanimity where you become whether it's really difficult things going joyful sensation, you are taught to just me tell you guys, that is so hard. Imagine they want you to not react to that. They want this itching will fade. And so rather than just every day, I am going to retrain the pattern that sensation. I will recognize this sensation is And so the core benefit of Vipassana is that when you are able to sit for a full hour without equanimity in yourself, then deep, difficult been sitting in your subconscious for such a to come to the surface of your body and actually equanimous and can see that these sensations sitting there for half an hour in total stillness, equanimous to the happiness that you feel, you're it's the most insane experience, all can just enter burning pain. to fall off. This pain just rises and just takes this is what the 10 days of teaching you to do is you have to be equanimous. You can't you can't change position, you can't scratch imagine you're doing body scan every single hour. these free flow vibrations, and then you hit the and using your awareness, you dig into the or... It's so hard to explain. It sounds Your equanimity, your neutrality to and you just have to keep thinking, no matter isn't going to last. This is impermanent, this pain. But that's impermanent.&quot; And if you can keep in the pain every single agonizing minute, at some most insane feeling ever. It feels like this wave slowly taking away every inch of the pain, pain into this humming, vibrating feeling. that part of your subconscious, that thing that is also released. So that is the very which is something that you cannot Intellectually it sounds like, okay, that You feel it in your body when you do this and if you continue to be equanimous, if you let it is grueling. It is work. It is dragging your and back to your body, back to your sensations, pleasant moments and knowing that they too can It is so hard, but that is the core of what will I feel like it sounds like it doesn't. [inaudible You really have to do it. But yes, so I'm now Speaker 3: If instead we can have a slightly more open arises in the mind, instead if we can be Jade Bowler: the first line of my first day, day one was an underlining. The 4:00 AM session for me at all. My brain was everywhere. My brain was for lunch the day before, I was thinking about my about, oh God, everything. I was thinking about, was wondering about everything. I started counting on just my nose for before I was lost in thought. being lost in thought. That is how distracted my and I realized I actually had a lot of ego. I am a meditator. I meditate 10 minutes a day, am I getting distracted every single minute?&quot; which only made me more distracted and I went to see the teacher and just expressed &quot;Just [inaudible 00:34:21] it.&quot; She's like, &quot;This suddenly be able to focus on just your breath change your position every time you need to. If let it take you and then just come back the And that was helpful, because I think I was putting on myself for no reason, the meditation sessions, it was optional you could decide to go to the hall or meditate &quot;Well, I'm going to go meditate in my room now.&quot; like I was so deep in it, I felt like I was it must have been about 40 minutes, 45 minutes. And it had been five minutes. It had literally for an hour, and it was five minutes. struggle being in my room, and I thought, &quot;Let and I fell asleep. Waking up at 4:00 AM is not up feeling so not happy with myself. I was like, sleeping.&quot; So from that moment on, I decided no I would take every single meditation session in the hall. Day two. I was actually very proud of to do more than two breaths before getting lost much better. I could focus more. I did feel like the first day, so I was able to be more relaxed. and in front of me, I had felt very lucky, the girl from the bus. We each had I should have said. So in the hall, you had had thick blankets you could wrap around on. There in front of me had been Alicia and I came in and the other girl in our block, the Then it just hit me that anyone who was sitting explanation. She's just gone.&quot; And I get it. 12 hours a day. And it made me realize even all these people in the room who you don't even you're with, you get to know them in other ways. the morning and go for a walk. You see who drinks get their food and will reserve a spot. And you the queue. You see who finishes their food, who themselves with lightness and stops to observe room and looks from the outside. Even though you you really get a sense of who people are in a And this girl leaving, I think was the impermanence. Everything is impermanent in being here that is independent from I also thought that I had a breakthrough because I was bored, and so I was like, oh, maybe if I go imagine myself in this scene, then that's And so I forced myself to rethink through which is not the right technique, actually I was like, &quot;Oh, yeah, this is great. I wasn't processing anything. I was just But you develop as you go through the course. And focus. I was less motivated. But I loved the also something that I was reflecting on that day in the UK, because the type of nature felt so would be similar to ones in the woodland where I there would be all these little rabbits, and I had was like, I don't know, very touching. And this memory that I forgot I had of when I was down this silver birch tree that we had in the but at seven, you don't see valid reasons. remember staging a protest to the guy, the guy the tree because silver birch has papery bark. I'd don't kill me.&quot; And I'd tied myself to this down in the end, which is really depressing. But rekindled this love that I have for nature and So that was just very special. And also, was a sunny day, and the sun just helped so much would lie down in the grass and sunbathe. And in going up to flowers and just smelling them, or because when you don't have a phone, you and you just can be in a really unique way. with nature. Day three, the morning was bloody day three was just a real challenge. My body something I'm used to doing. My back was falling the time. I was just in pain. I was distracted. I on my nose for 12 hours a day?&quot; Then I was like, the teacher did one-on-one meetings with all our experiences. Oh my God, this affected me so bottle waiting to go into the lunch hall, and it was just flying around me in the light. gorgeous way. It was just flapping. And also watching this butterfly. And all of lightness from watching it, enjoying its and this one girl came stomping down the clearly so unobservant, and she stood on the and there was this collective gasp. Even [inaudible 00:42:36] because also we've taken obviously. That was the time I made eye oh, it was such a weird moment because felt like such drama, and I just picked I felt, for some reason, the whole day I felt You just become so sensitive when you are in also went to see the teacher. It was all fine. that afternoon was the first time I really wanted not spoken for three days. I was walking in the do anything. I just felt like strangled. Day four able to spend almost every hour just focused were saying that every single hour, every single for you to constantly make effort, constantly so that when you starve a persona, you're I spoke to some people at the end who had skipped end, were not able to feel a lot of the reflow hadn't invested time in building this samadhi. And early, to be really trying. And I think day four less restless. And day four was the day we were idea of impermanence, I was talking about before. teach us impermanence. Every five minutes, the it would be sunny, then it would be cloudy, then Then it'd be like a rain, a sun. And you become so do or think about. So every break, I would go it looked sunny and then it would start raining. started pouring, and I was standing under a tree, retreat. This is one thing I regret is just how had one jumper and it was freezing. So I wore didn't want to get this one jumper soaking wet. that it was raining, and I was like, &quot;How am And other people all had umbrellas or raincoats, And then I saw my friend Alicia from the bus, 18 wearing almost nothing, and she was just looking And she was getting wet. Her hair was And I realized, &quot;Jade, your annoyance is all in wet, it's about how you deal with that.&quot; And so run. I just walked calmly back to the place. enjoyed it because I had embraced it, and then But I really think I was starting to embracing whatever sensation is there through we were introduced to Vipassana. I remember it sitting in the meditation hall, the voice of the bring your attention to the top of your head. sudden there's this thunderstorm, the thunder is talking about how you should be feeling this slashing down. And it just felt so dramatic. It the intensity of the moment. And after doing the absolutely battered. I was so exhausted. but waited until 9:00 PM, absolutely fell asleep was the first full day of only doing Vipassana. on your mind and your body because you're difficult physical sensations. So I went to &quot;Am I meant to feel this exhausted? Am I meant single time I do this technique?&quot; And I swear &quot;Oh, I'll just observe it.&quot; I am observing it. but they are good teachers. You just need you to suck it up. Looking back, of course, I made me want to think that I could find it easy. should walk outside the meditation hall for about back, and jump back in again, rather than going jolt awake, come back and keep bringing your it was good advice? Day six, after day five the technique and I felt exhausted, day six was This was the first day where I had successfully My equanimity was developing, which is this idea whether positive or bad. The weather was realized maybe my favorite state to do meditation The air was just nicer to breathe. And I loved just felt so inside myself. There's this white had this breakthrough in the 1:00 PM meditation one hour of sitting absolutely still, as some they were giving up or going to their room to them. I felt this craving to also abandon the go back to my room. Even though I had really other people doing it really made me want flood of memories of moments where I just went and how I have just really developed a habit, and what I want and what I think, and so And like, oh, look, things like going out when I people that maybe I don't actually have the time I have learned to abandon what I intrinsically knock-on effect on my confidence and my sense I have learned to be validated by the opinions of me. And I just felt all of that in that the pain in my legs was absolutely unbearable. It but I just felt like I will not leave. I will I will not do away with this pain to be dealt I will sit in this feeling. I will heal this part an hour and a half session. I sat there for the that moment, half an hour excruciating minutes of this healing sensation that just transformed gently fell from my eyes. It felt like I'm not Yeah. It's like you can know these yourself in these moments. You can know that But it is a different thing to feel the solution. came out that evening, and for some reason the through the woods, was this song from primary grass is green and the silk inside the chestnut There's acorns and stuff. And I was stroking the And in general, guys, when you don't have a phone, look up things. And so you just learn to make are. Why does this tree bark have all these questioning that to myself and I realized, &quot;Oh my it forms the shape of an eye.&quot; these used to be branches, or I was just exploring cherry trees, and these are cherries, and I've but I just have never seen them on a tree. Or I the front and the back, and the caterpillars I was like, &quot;Wow, I'd never seen that before.&quot; caterpillars and just observe them and guess why Why do they live right at the end of the barrage? be a scientist or to be a biologist is to just aren't just answered for you like that, and to we all became biologists even in this time. there was Braiding Sweetgrass, which is a book I think I was very biased to feel especially day seven, I titled it Fuck Equanimity. Fuck could not bring myself to be neutral to any I was so averse. I wanted to punch it out of I was walking in the Woodland, I wanted to scream. allowed to do exercise?&quot; Felt like I wanted to, my hood up because I was like, I don't want anyone hall. I just felt awful. I felt I want to leave. Looking back, I was literally a product I don't know. One of the main teachings is and how any negative sensations we become so rather than being neutral to them and letting sensations or this happiness, we really crave And I was craving not to be feeling this awful myself to be neutral with it, which meant that and I had questions for her. I was like, it's stupid.&quot; I was like, &quot;What about in being neutral to that? How's that going to it's great to be like, I want to change this. I want to feel better. I want to change that more. So I was just in this state for when the hours of meditation. Obviously I went and I sat it passed. It was impermanent. But the difference going for a run round and releasing that state, feel the rising pain of sensations in my body And then I actually processed it. And I think moments in my life where I haven't let myself be things. Me being angry was so necessary. So even those really negative days of Vipassana know yet. You just have have to persist. You have avoided going to the sessions, but I was like, day eight. Day eight. They say day eight and the last few days you have to really work, and you understand all the theory too, so you can And I was doing that most of the day until I sat Finally, it was raining all day and there was sitting on the bench, and I was looking to sit on that bench in the sun. Went to And I was like, &quot;Brilliant, And so I laid back and I was stretching stretching, looking at the sky, embracing the but I've spent the last five days to ignore an itch. If I've got an itch, I'm Then I got another itch on my leg, and I was like, looked down, and my entire legs were covered in I was literally... My eyes were widened and and she looked down at me and we made eye contact, other and we were just like, I was like, &quot;Jade, I'm not allowed to kill anything, so how do I them? So I'm like trying to swipe them off. And meditation hall. So I'm like, &quot;Oh my God, Jade, them.&quot; And then I was like, &quot;Oh my God, do I have I was trying to get rid of every single one. hardest session I've ever done in my entire life sitting of strong determination where you sit, and And I felt crawling ants through my entire body. this crawling sensation. And at the end I would it was the worst thing ever. I think the universe equanimity, you're getting too good at meditation, challenge. And the session after, even though I my body remembered the itching. It was such just feel like my whole body hated me. was the practice for the day of me. That was learning how to not itch and itch, how to really from day eight feeling so proud of myself and of things. It was just, &quot;Oh my God, that was nine was the reason that I came to my Vipassana one of the best days of my life, one of the of my life. It was pouring with rain the entire In the meditation hall, every single second such bliss. I felt more bliss than bliss. And they had this idea in the teachings sensations enough, if you embrace the technique feel this free flow of sensations where, from toes to the top, and you can just feel your body this on day nine, and I just felt like my entire And that was the day where I received a and who I am and who I want to be in this world. of them are quite personal. But a few things was and just egoistic in the way that I live my life. throughout university I was so focused on myself less about me serving people and connecting people job and become something that I've just... I had Jade,&quot; churning out, editing, stressfully editing not rooted in this deep sense of purpose that I time. I used to do things for people all the time. you have moments where you can do things for yourself, I felt like so much of my joy comes I need to do that more with my finances. I need to do it more with my free time and my to be more of a conduit of service. Yeah. to work a job that is not helping people. I feel rooted in service. And I don't want to that's one really life [inaudible 01:04:15] create something that I don't want to say yet pressure or I don't know, you Yeah, I realized why am I chasing the same things friends are looking for? There's this thing have not even considered as an option for myself. I would love to do that. So I think I'm going amazing insights about my love life and what I I just really felt like that day, my whole body even every single deep pain that would come up, whole lower half would being burning pain, and I &quot;This is me processing things for the good of mental effort and strength to go through things so light and so loved by me. And then finally, the wound, because in many ways, Vipassana, There's no surgeon giving you anesthetic. It's you go through the pain, you feel it all. You do So yeah, you need a day before going into the real morning, 4:00 AM was still Vipassana. I went, feeling so light, feeling so good in the metta meditation, which I've done before, metta another Buddhist technique. It's where you send and you just imagine yourself as really full of for everyone, people who have harmed you, People who have wronged you try and forgive. have of caused. You just put yourself in this good energy. And it's so much easier to access who are all channeling that really good energy all the servers, the volunteers came and sat and they cooked for us, they cleaned for us. organize the teaching. And I was overcome It's such an intimate experience, Vipassana. you see these warm smiling faces at lunchtime, to cook for you, to help you. I just felt so, metta meditation. Tears were just streaming for you are so lucky to be human because only humans are able to have such metacognition about human. You are lucky to be alive. You are lucky to biology, universe, God, whatever, thank really felt that in that moment. And I just wish feel as liberated as we did in that moment. such hardship and it is not easy to be it very difficult. And I just really wish in then after that meditation, we got to break and Alicia was there. And me and Alicia the whole We were always the first people in the meditation coming every time. I just noticed we would always We always go to the woodland at the same times. and point of strength on days where I didn't always a equanimous. And so, coming out of it, and they said, &quot;You can break the silence.&quot; And Tears were streaming down my face. I And then I just turned and I looked at her and And I was like, and then we hugged and it just touched a human, spoken to a human, spoken to your mind for so long. And then for this person who has helped you, you helped them, in an it was so impactful. And yeah, we hugged and do you say? I said, &quot;How was your 10 days?&quot; And was like, &quot;Yeah, me too.&quot; And the weather was shining on it. Pure, beautiful, shining droplets. with all the sunlight. It was amazing. And then sit and hear all these people's stories. I heard Other people who I'd felt so close to the whole got to know them, but also my social battery was I felt so exhausted. I felt like I was going to If someone said something even slightly negative, how it affected me. You just became so empowering way. I understand this form And it was so weird being in the block. And days, you were real aware of who lives with you every night. And so being able to brush our teeth those stories, amazing. Going to the woodland And she's like, &quot;Oh my god, no way. This piece of I was like, &quot;No way. Did you notice this flower that.&quot; Then we're like, &quot;oh, it's so cool.&quot; All share. And then the next day after another metta good energy to the world, which made me cry again. with the other people and volunteers and got I sobbed. The first song that I I went for a walk around my area and I felt everything, with eyes I have never had before, an a new person. And I know it sounds so dramatic It's just hard to understand unless you've yeah, I hope I don't just come across some it was just really, really transformative. And I a version of myself that I've really been craving. technique, Vipassana, which I'm as many times as I can in my life. Right now, an hour in the evening, and I'd love to do guys, you need to do it, and you need to but this one is so holistic. Getting you understand the way you react to challenges Yes, if you made it to this point in the video, this point, please comment my favorite emoji, best to reply to every single one that I see. being in my little corner of the internet. Truly, crazy to me that we've been connected in this way, ever get the chance to do a Vipassana retreat, be ready because it is so much work, and a lot of getting yourself into, but also do it. Don't you would need in the description, and message experience. Oh my God, my camera overheated and