In recent days, there have been many cases of robbery and theft in our city. The Linchuan Judicial Team reminds the general public to be more vigilant. The situation is bad. Suspect Song Yao may have found you. Go towards the Civil Affairs Bureau. There will be colleagues to pick you up. Remember the contact code: You are late 3 Minutes to reply Sorry next time please pay attention ok I'll be here right now i'm a spaceship i love you Baby, feed grandma, Ah Che. I didn't see you at the Civil Affairs Bureau. Remember Xiao Guo , don't mistake him for the wrong person when he was wearing a white shirt and jeans to receive his certificate. I know grandma, it's over, it's over. You 're definitely going to be discovered. You're 3 minutes late. You 're a colleague from the street. Sorry, I'll do it next time. Note that I am still busy. It seems that Shijie Dootong is correct . Sorry, with my ID card, I have arranged a fast lane so I don't have to queue up. This colleague acted like that and shocked me. Okay, sir, please wait a moment . Do you still need my help with the rest? Master Han just needs to follow Just stay with you. I've already arranged the rest. I 'll take pictures later. It's just a formality. If you regret it , the door opens at the back. You can leave at any time. Keep your voice down. I'm afraid of being heard. Well, it 's very uncomfortable to marry me. How can such a glorious thing be possible ? I want to marry you Sir, Miss, you can take pictures. It 's so realistic. It's like a real wedding. Come on, the two newlyweds , come and lean in the middle. Come on , it's so beautiful . Come on, come on again. Come on, Mr. Black Car, Miss Song Yao, congratulations. Thank you , wait. Song Yao Song Who is Yao? Who is Song Yao? Hahaha, have Xiao Che and Xiao Guo received their certificates? Wait, I'll go back and say hello to you. I want a divorce. Wait, didn't you fake your marriage because you were on a mission? Miss, I got the wrong person . Sorry, the person I want to marry is not the one I want to marry. He helped me get a divorce. Uh-huh , the divorce was cold for a month. Regularly, I am a VIP. Sorry sir, the VIP introduced by this bureau is only for marriages without queuing, but divorce is not possible. The system cannot be changed . Could it be that I really recognized the wrong colleague from the street and got married by the way ? It's really me who married you. The biggest in my life We will be a family after happiness. Miss Du, what are you doing? I am from the law enforcement team. I am on a mission now. Your direction at 5 o'clock is my mission target. Could you please cooperate with my work ? Sun Hao, what is the situation with you? The colleague who is responding is already in the civil affairs department. The Bureau is waiting for you, the suspect from the Ming team We have just left. Just let the co-worker who is in charge of you follow me directly. Don't worry about me. The suspect should have already believed me. Received, please return to the team as soon as possible. Captain, I can't leave yet. Why are you injured? If you tell me, you may not believe it. I just accidentally got married. Are you brave enough to take me? I'll give you five minutes to fuck. Mom, have you finished thanking me. What's your purpose? I'm really from the law enforcement team. Come on, can you see ? I, Song Yao, am an intern of the law enforcement team. I just accidentally mistook you for my co-worker. Who knew that by such a coincidence you would match my call code? Why did you give me your cell phone? Leave your number first. I have to return to the team quickly now. You can hold this disease control certificate first. When you are free, you can call me and contact me to solve difficult financial matters. Hey, hey, this woman , grandma, why are you doing this? Where are you going in your clothes ? Prepare your car. Why are you there? Well, Xiao Guo just called and said that he was in a car accident and couldn't go to the Civil Affairs Bureau. I went to the hospital to see him. Hey, you lied to grandma and said you went to get the certificate. Tell me, did you not go to grandma at all? I really got the certificate. I got the wrong person . I admitted the wrong person. Don't scare grandma. The marriage certificate is here. What is this? Human, um, a woman. I know she is a woman. Do you know her details? Oh, my good grandson. Listen to grandma and quickly divorce this woman and marry Xiao Guo. This Xiao Guo is good at hiding my identity. Girl, yes, yes , grandma, I promise you to get married I'm married , but no matter who I marry, I'll only marry once. What's the point for Guo ? Just leave it to your cousin. He's going to go . Hey, hey, he's called Xiao Guo. I know this kid. Hey, Su Mo, go check and find out about a guy named Song Yao. There is also the woman who is close to grandma, whose name is Guo, what is Wan ? Damn it, why did there happen to be a car accident at this time ? I am so close to becoming the president of the Pei Group, will my wife do it? Miss Guo, it was you who moved me so much that you still responded. Dare to talk back ? Believe it or not, I'm safe Ann, it's okay, Miss Nurse. Didn't you just accidentally go white? It's okay. Grandma , this is the nurse who accidentally hurt me just now. I comforted her . Nurse, it's done. Thank you, Miss Nurse, I did. You read that right. You are such a kind and good girl. An An, how are you feeling? Grandma, I'm fine. The doctor said I can be discharged from the hospital tomorrow. It's fine. It's fine. It 's fine. It's just a pity that you and Archer didn't meet today. I'm sorry, grandma. It's my fault. I don't know why things turned out like this. How could this be your fault? Well, things like car accidents are unpredictable. It seems that this is all God's will. Your grandson and I are destined to have nothing to do with each other . But don't worry, grandma, even if we can't become a family, I will still treat you as my own grandma and be filial . Oh, what a filial piety. Good boy , look, you were the only one who caught me when I fell that day. I helped you up. You are the kindest child I have ever seen. Grandma, what are you saying? This is all what I should do . If this old immortal had not found out his identity in advance and knew his informant, who would be willing? Bully him . After all, you are my grandma's favorite grandson-in-law. Don't worry, I'll go back and tell Archer that you two will have more contact. He will definitely fall in love with you. Grandma, you're the best. Hahaha . Today's task is really hard. I got married inexplicably . I have an unlucky grandpa. Grandpa, grandpa, grandpa is back Grandpa, doctor, how is my grandpa? His life is not in danger for now. Great. Thank you, doctor. Don't thank me too early. Your grandpa's disease is too rare. Our hospital currently has no suitable treatment plan. Ms. Song, you'd better do it early. 7 Big plans, how long will my grandpa have left ? there is no other treatment option, I would conservatively estimate two months Yaoyao gets married and starts a family Grandpa, if you say that again, I will ignore you. Grandpa's health is known to himself. At most, it will not happen for another month or two. Grandpa, I will definitely try my best to cure your illness. Silly boy, I don't want to hope before I leave. You promised grandpa two things. Is Su Yao really not considering staying in the law enforcement team? My grandpa doesn't want me to be like my parents. He just wants me to be an ordinary person. But that's fine. I can go back and inherit his processing. The factory became a young female factory director. Su Yao, both of your parents They sacrificed their lives in the line of duty. They are all heroes dedicated to the people. I can understand your grandfather's mood. I wish you a smooth journey from now on. Thank you, Captain. You have finally fulfilled your grandfather's first wish. Now for the second time, find someone who can take care of you, get married and start a family. Otherwise grandpa would be I don't feel at ease even when I'm underground . If I find someone to go on a blind date, then I have to at least divorce yesterday's inexplicable marriage . Don't delay other people's marriage. What is that person's name? Mr. Pei, Song Yao and the police are investigating the information. Got this clear Guo Anan is simply a complete liar . None of his identities are true. From this, it can be seen that he deliberately approached the old lady and wanted to covet the Pei family's property. You sent someone to keep an eye on him. The old lady likes him very much. At this time, even if he tells the old lady, he will I don't necessarily believe it, but I'm all Ma Xiao over there, right ? Song Yao's identity is innocent. His parents were both members of the law enforcement team, but they both died in the line of duty . There is also a grandfather who is in poor health. According to his neighbors, he is a very filial and kind person. You're a kind girl and you think highly of him. Knowing people and knowing faces but not knowing the heart, who knows if he is too cunning and disguised too well, Mr. Pai, do you still mind Miss Zhong Xueyao ? I told you not to mention this person's name in front of me again. The moment Zhong Xueyao left me for the sake of her future. My affairs are no longer like this. Mr. Pei is not in good shape. The old lady is here. Just tell him directly that I am not in the company. I said so, but the old lady said that he would sit outside. While waiting for you to come back, he kept talking about what else you said and said that your marriage halfway was not completed and his promise was to get you divorced quickly and marry a police officer to be the CEO's wife, Mr. Pei. Anyway, you are already married to Miss Song Yao . Why don't you try to get along? Look at my marriage certificate. How dare you make harassing calls to the law enforcement team ? Why did you hang up on me? Who are you? You are Pei Che , your husband, and I am also your father. How could I possibly follow? How can such a woman live her life? Are you not looking for abuse? Damn, Mr. Pei didn't have a very good impression of Miss Song. Now it 's even worse. Pei Che, wait, Pei Che, it's over. I've completely offended the person. I can't change my account to another one. Try saying sorry, Mr. Pei. My name is Song Yao. I was really sorry just now because my phone didn't save your phone number, so it automatically marked it as a harassing call. I really didn't. Tell me what it is that offends you. Mr. Pei, in order not to affect our normal marriage and love behavior during the divorce cooling-off period , I think we need to each write a statement explaining the current situation so as not to misunderstand that you have a boyfriend. Friends? I don't have a boyfriend. Then there's no need to go. I don't have a girlfriend. You don't have a girlfriend . Then why did you get the certificate from the Civil Affairs Bureau ? I was detained at home. My little sister is forced to get married and has to sign this . Find someone who can take care of you, get married and start a family. Otherwise, grandpa will not feel at ease even if he goes underground. He has no girlfriend and I have no boyfriend. And we both want to find someone because of our elders. Mr. Pei , why don't we two give it a try? Don't get divorced first . Are you sure my conditions are average? I think your clothes are quite good. Oh, you said this clothes? I'll look for it. I guess the 2024 spring and summer model I borrowed from a friend is very expensive . Well , it doesn't matter. What kind of job do you do? Currently unemployed, homeless, waiting for drinks, and poor. Ms. Song won't dislike people like me, right? It doesn't matter if I don't. I will inherit me right away. Grandpa's factory is here. If you really can't find a job, you can come to my factory to help. If you don't want to go to work , can you be a housewife at home? You do the housework inside and I do the housework outside. My housework is only half done. I know how to do it. I can teach you slowly. You are so good-looking and you are very smart just by looking at it . You will definitely learn it soon. Then if during this period, I fall in love with someone better than you, then if this During this period, I fell in love with someone better than you. Okay , hey, what did you say ? Grandpa is critically ill . Okay , I'll go there right now. Hey, Miss Song, it seems we haven't finished talking yet. Sorry, Mr. Pei, I have something urgent to do now. Go to the hospital. As for what you just asked, if you fall in love with someone better than me, you can file for divorce from me at any time. I will definitely agree to it. And during the divorce, I am willing to give you half of my property in accordance with the law. You can I'll leave first after thinking about it. Song Yao, is there such a stupid girl in the world? Hey Sumu, help me check the hospital where Grandpa Song Yao is. Are you sure you don't want to sign first? The patient's condition is critical. We can't wait too long. We don't sign. If we sign, you kill people, where can you go to make sense? Have you notified that girl Song Yao? Wait until the girl comes over and talk to you. Hey, doctor, what's going on? What's going on with my grandfather? Will the patient suddenly faint again ? The patient needs to rest due to a sudden attack of anger , so your family members had better not irritate the patient casually to avoid the recurrence of today's critical situation. Ms. Song, since you are here, please sign the critical illness notice. It's a good time to perform the operation. I'm sorry to trouble you. medical Is this what you did ? Is it because of you that my grandfather passed out? Song Yao, please don't rant. My second uncle was already very ill . We just said a few words to him. It has nothing to do with us . I still I really underestimated your shamelessness. I want to hear what shameless words you said to make my grandfather so angry. Hey, listen to Song Yao, do you have any education? Who told you to talk like this in front of your elders? Elders , you are the only one like this. You are worthy of being my elder, so don't make any noise. Didn't you see the two ancestors here? Song Yao, I asked you if your second uncle left the factory to you. I said why did you suddenly come to the hospital ? It turned out to be for my grandfather's family property. Stop talking nonsense and just say what happened . I am My grandfather's granddaughter, of course I keep my grandfather's things The movie you gave me can't be passed down from generation to generation . What qualifications do you have to inherit the family property? Even if you want to inherit , my father inherited our family's things. Why should you just inherit ? This is the ancestral etiquette that has been passed down from generation to generation. Hey, you always say that the family business has been in the family since ancient times. Just pass it on This is a rule left by the ancestors. The second uncle gave birth to a son from your father. Originally, our Song family was counting on your father to carry on the family lineage for the second uncle. However, my father was so angry that he gave birth to a daughter and never gave birth to a daughter again . Now Your father is gone too, but I am the second uncle. Ah Song Yao, as the saying goes , boys are golden and girls are grass. Boys and girls are born different. Only when you have a son in your family can you stand tall. Now your uncle is the closest person to your grandpa. Moreover, this belongs to the clan. It was decided that our Song family is the property of the big family. The division must be approved by the team leader. This is the notarial deed of inheritance of Song Jianguo's property from the team. Please sign it quickly. Song Yao, the daughter of Song Jianguo, voluntarily gave up all the property under Song Jianguo's name and transferred it to Song Cheng. This notarial deed starts from the time of signature. Has the same effect as a will And it has legal effects . You also know that this is a society ruled by law. So what? Don't delay here. Sign quickly . We are still rushing home for lunch. You want me to sign ? You, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, your dreaming, you're you, you, you,,,,,, mee,e you, going to saying, having to sign against, and you want me to sign your signature, don't waste time here , don't waste time here, hurry up and sign it! What if I tear up the notarial certificate inside ? He said that my grandfather is still alive. Even if my grandfather is really gone, I ca n't give the family property to anyone else. Song Yao, are n't you afraid of being expelled from the clan for disobeying the clan emblem ? Was he expelled from the clan along with Song? Yao, if you still disagree with the clan officials today, you and your grandfather can be removed from the family name . Old Mingzu, please calm down quickly, calm down quickly. Song Yao's second uncle's body, you also know the body of the old man. You can just talk about the fallen leaves returning to their roots and follow the clan rules for the rest of their lives. Even after you die, you cannot be buried in the village. You can't let your second uncle die and end up being betrayed by all his relatives, right? You have to be conscientious, Su You, don't forget that your parents and grandma are still buried in the clan and they can't be reunited even if they die, they have to be buried together, uncle. The family said that this life and death is a big matter, so we can't rely on it. Your own selfishness has made it impossible for Jingguo to live in peace even after his death. If grandpa really couldn't live in peace after his death because I was famous as an assistant , I should have known that you would do this. I printed an extra notarized certificate and signed it after thinking about it clearly. It's so troublesome to sign. Didn't you bring Indonesia with you? Okay , come on, come on , come on, I can't get out of here, eh, it's just a matter of time , oh, Song Yao, I don't blame you , who asked you to be reincarnated without a leader ? You must know that your son is the root of the family. Besides, this woman is born with If you want to get married , once you marry someone, you will no longer be a member of the Song family. But I'm even less qualified to inherit the Song family's property. My parents are right. It 's not our little Yang's second uncle's property. Apart from my dad, there really is no one qualified to inherit it. My sister , daddy, daddy, daddy, daddy, daddy. What were you thinking about ? You forgot to come back soon . I put on milk Kaman that night. It's so wonderful that no one can freeze and reinforce the Kasmissi sling. A chicken can't show off . Oh, it's still wonderful. Everything should be there. That temple is it. Is it Song Yao? As long as he never gets married, he is still a member of the Song family. Then he can inherit his grandfather's family property . You Who is it? Oh my God, I didn't expect that Pei Che would come to help me. I am Song Jia and Song Yao's son-in-law. Now he can inherit. His grandpa's family property belongs to him, right? He is my son-in-law. From now on, our children will be named Song and can inherit the lineage of grandpa. In this case, it is not considered a violation of the family rules. There is such a rule in the Song family rules. There is such a rule. Oops. Song Yao, when did you have a son-in-law who came to your house? Why didn't we know about it? I don't seem to have any obligation to tell you. It's our business. I'm afraid it's just an actor. Some people are trying to steal family property . What kind of method is this brought up ? Song Yao, you said he is your door-to-door son-in-law. What evidence do you have? Is this evidence enough? Marriage certificate , is he really Don't actors all use props when they get married ? Maybe it's fake. Hey, my friend, you really brought a full set of props when you acted. Come on, this is my cousin, right? I went to nine years of compulsory education. What do you mean? Are you fucking scolding me? Do you have this kind of brain? It 's most likely just for heightening. See clearly. There 's a seal with a steel seal on it. Forgery Song Jie, do you know that it is illegal to forge a marriage certificate and you will be put in jail? Do you think that as a member of the law enforcement team? Will you know the law and break the law? Use your brain more. If you don't use it, you will become rusty. I know that this man and you are in a fake marriage. We have no feelings at all. We are just here for the family property, right? Otherwise, what's the date of the marriage certificate? It was yesterday . You see, my mother was right. You really just randomly found someone to act for you. Who said we don't have feelings? Who said we don't? Now that we are in love, he actually kissed me. This is my first kiss after 23 years, which disappoints you. My wife and I are not only in love , but we have a very good relationship, right? Wife , yes, I have a very good relationship with my husband, so you don't need to fool around here. Don't worry , you are shameless. We are a couple. What do I have to be shameless about ? I think you are the one who is shameless, right? If you are wondering about other people's married life, should I let you come and see me at night? Look at our quilts, oh, oh, now you should have no doubts about my wife inheriting his grandfather's property , right? What should dad do ? What else can we do ? Why do n't you hurry up and leave ? Didn't you see that there are so many people here today? Mr. Pei, they are oh I heard their voices here. I was afraid that you would be bullied , so I asked my good brother to be a bodyguard, right? Well, since Bentley has nothing to do , let's go first. Thank you. Okay, thank you for your hard work . But they don't look like ordinary friends. They may be more cautious. Could this foil be some kind of gangster? No, no, no, how can I miss my benefactor so much? Mr. Pei doesn't care. No matter what, thank you for rescuing me just now. We are husband and wife after all. Mr. Pei, you agree to my proposal. If Miss Song doesn't dislike my poor conditions. And if you ask for too much, it's totally fine if you don't mind. Don't worry, Mr. Pei, as long as I have a mouthful of food, you will not miss a mouthful of food. It's great. You can fulfill grandpa's second wish. But it seems that your relatives won't give up. Ah, it doesn't matter. The soldiers are here to cover up the water and the earth. Moreover, Mr. Pei helped my grandpa push the patient into the ward first . Doctor, how is my grandpa's condition? This surgery was very shocking. Your grandpa is not completely out of danger yet. He needs to be transferred to the intensive care unit immediately. As for whether he can wake up and how long he can last, it depends on God. Be careful . It's okay. Is it okay? Is there any other way? In fact, there is another way . What should you do? Have you heard of Dr. Zhou Tiancheng, the top surgeon in the country? He has a proud disciple who happens to be studying the direction of your grandfather's disease. I heard that his research results were published today. If you have a breakthrough , if you can ask him to treat your grandfather, there may be a chance of survival. The disciple you are talking about cannot be Lu Linfeng from the Lu family in Jiangcheng, right? It is the young and promising Dr. Lu. But I heard that he has been in the hospital for a long time. Overseas , why do you know this gentleman? If I say that I know him, will it not be consistent with the character I have created now ? I have a relative in my family who sought treatment from him before. Maybe I can contact him . That's really cool. It's great. If you can really contact Dr. Lu, there will be hope for your grandfather's illness . OK, I'll try to contact him. Thank you, Mr. Pei. Thank you, no need to send him away. We can go back by ourselves. It 's all our fault that Song Yao's son-in-law came to visit and ruined our good deeds . The elder of the clan is still so angry. This time we really lost our strategy . The head of the family really let Song Yao, the loser, inherit the second uncle's family property. Not to mention other things, the profit of the processing factory this year was seventy or eighty percent. He has got ten thousand, and he has to be able to hold on to the second uncle, but he won't be able to hold on for long . You mean, do n't worry, I 've already made arrangements . Thank you in advance for helping me so much. If you need my help with anything in the future, you can tell me. As long as I can help, I will help you in any way. It is not at least illegal, criminal or contrary to benevolence , justice and morality. If love doesn't work, what if it's that kind of thing ? Isn't that kind of thing what I think? Although we are already married , we don't have to be so straightforward. It 's not that that kind of thing is not possible . I think we'd better cultivate it first. Cultivate the relationship between husband and wife. Otherwise, if you don't feel comfortable then, hahaha, what is Miss Song thinking? I just want you to help me rent a house . Otherwise, what kind of thing does Miss Song think I am talking about? No, no, no, Song Yang, you big idiot , where did you think you were? I just want to rent a house. Why do you want to rent a house? My previous house is about to expire, and I may have no place to live. I don't have any. It's easy to work and have no income . Mr. Pi, please come and stay at my house. I happen to have a two-bedroom and one-living house. Grandpa is currently in the hospital and it's vacant. We can share a room with each other. What do you think ? I won't trouble you too much . You've helped me so much. I just helped you find a house. Besides, isn't this what we should be doing? You said we are husband and wife . Aren't these two very good people? This time. If they fight, if the two of them can really get together, the Black Sect will be able to completely escape from Feng Xuewa's conspiracy . Let me see , I don't go and hum . Well, this eldest grandson is so capable that he made trouble for his own grandmother. The company Come out to find the vixen. It doesn't look like a good thing. It's up to you to use your points backwards . Why don't you go back and pack your things first ? I'll send you the address later. Okay, then I'll go up and take care of grandpa first. Bye, bye, bye. Hey Du Lifu, I want to see your people in China before 6 pm. Please ask Master Pei to hang himself for money. You have to let me finish handing over the work at hand before going out. What's more, we are jet lag. I am here tonight at 8 o'clock tomorrow morning . Who on earth did you ask me to treat? Could it be grandma who came to me in such a hurry ? I shouldn't have. If there is something wrong with grandma, I would have known about it. Then stop guessing and come back . You already know each other. Hey, Huahua, hide now . Grandma, hey, why are you here? Who makes some people have so many things to do all day long to see them? Grandma doesn't even have time. Tell me the truth, are you not willing to marry Xiao Guo? You know people, know faces, but don't know hearts . How do you know that what kind of pot and what kind of bowl are better than scallion oil? I know what I have been doing these days. I dressed up as an old man scavenging. I was with Xiaobo. He was gentle and patient with me . He was the kindest person I have ever seen. This girl is more lucky than that heartless one. I have been getting along with Song Yao as a homeless person these days . He not only doesn't mind but also keeps me . I still think it's best for Xiao Guo. Only girls like him are worthy of me. Granddaughter- in-law , okay, let me bet you that you don't think it's that Guo or that bowl that you noticed because he helped you . Then you use the same trick on Song Yang. If you win, I promise you a divorce. This is what you said. You can't go back on it. Su Mu, can you testify for us? It's the old lady. I heard it all. I'll go back and tell Xiao Guo now. This good news is also prepared by the way. Mr. Pei, do you really plan to let the old lady serve Miss Song? He doesn't know what to do if he doesn't accept it. He will definitely be convinced by Mrs. Dao 's identity. This matter has nothing to do with her identity. As long as he sees it, he will definitely do it. Anyway, I have other arrangements for this matter. Didn't you say something bad about me in the morning? Didn't you comment on me like this in the afternoon? It 's me. I thought she was a scheming girl at first, but I made this up. She actually didn't doubt his identity at all and let me move into his house and gave me food and accommodation. Isn't this lack of scheming? Isn't it just a lack of heart? Poor Mr. Pei was really frightened by that middle school student . What are you holding in your hand ? This is the razor that looks like a telescope. Bring it here. I'll drive. Miss Song. Miss Song. Song Yao. Zhong Xueyao, why are there photos of her in Song Yao's house ? This should be enough for a few days, okay! How dare you steal things into your aunt's house? The thief is on the move. Song Yao, I'm sorry. I pulled up your pants. I'm sorry, sir. I didn't mean to do it. Why don't you do it ? Are you going to get up? How are you? Are you okay? What quality of pants did Su Mu buy ? My lip was ripped by me and my pants are also torn. Mr. Pei, I will come tomorrow. I'll pay you a new pair of trousers for free. How much does your trousers cost? If I transfer it to you now, just scold me or you can hit me. This thing is all my fault. I treated you as a thief . Let's just treat it as an even deal , Mr. Pei. So you are so good-looking, what are you doing? I just saw that your lip was broken, so I will find medicine for you. Song Yao, what are you thinking about? Mr. Chen, please bear with it, it may hurt a little. You better call me. Come with me in the car. Okay, don't call me Miss Song anymore. Call me Yaoyao. My grandpa also called me that . Okay, I'm asking you why you have a photo of this woman. You said this. After my parents passed away, many people thought Sister Zhong Xueyao was one of them. She gave my family a large sum of money to allow my grandfather to open a factory. I followed the account and found his information . What are you looking at if you keep this photo of him ? Why did Yaoyao enter the mountains? Ah Cheng, look at this little girl. She is so pitiful. She was only a teenager and her parents all died because of the mission . Counselor Xue Yao called you, here comes Ah Cheng for counseling. The clerk asked me to go to the business first. Hey, ask me to help me earn some money for a family in the name of Yaoyao. Mr. Pei Chao , what are you thinking about? You don't know Miss Zhu too, do you? Don't you know Miss Zhu? No, I don't know her. I don't have any relationship with her. Not now, not in the future, not really. Why do you think your words are so strange? Do you think you can deceive me in the future ? What I hate most about this person is deception . If it is a white lie, whether it is good or malicious, it is deception. Li Cheng , are you hiding something? I don't think so. Of course I don't. That's good. Otherwise, besides being reasonable, I also know a little bit about boxing. Hey, don't look at me as an intern . When I first performed my mission, there were so many big men standing in front of me. I wasn't even afraid. I just went straight to it. I was kicked up and dared to fly. They knelt in front of me and shouted, &quot;My aunt, hum, I'm awesome. What are you doing looking at me like that? I'm thinking maybe we've known each other for a long time. That's not right.&quot; Yes, if we have known each other before, then I must have an impression of you. Yes, that 's right. Why did you go out in such a hurry just now ? You didn't even close the door . I just went downstairs to buy some daily necessities and vegetables . Thinking of you coming back so soon, my food is ready. Then you can stay here. Good night. Good night. To express my apology for yesterday , I decided to go out early to buy you pants. Breakfast is already ready. Put it in the kitchen and remember to eat it. Mr. Pei, this is Sumu. I just saw Miss Song go out . Come in. You were very intense last night. I think you are too idle recently. Mr. Cai, these are the quality companies selected by Jianghai Group. It's a pretty good small processing factory . Look at which one we're going to inspect today. It's this Xiaobai. Forget it. I 'll go there in person. Liu Li, by the way, I'm not leaving work. It should be here soon. Someone has been sent to pick him up. Okay, you need someone to pick me up and take me to the hospital first. Why did my cousin ask you to take me directly to the hospital ? That 's what Assistant Su said. He rushed me back in such a hurry and didn't even receive me personally. Mr. Pei seemed to be inspecting Come on, Pei Sheng . It's really just a person. Forget it. You go back first. Tell me the address of the hospital and the name of the person who needs treatment. I can go there myself . But Mr. Pei asked me to send it to you. Don't worry, I will follow my cousin. No explanation How about Miss Li Fengxue, who will blame you? Ah Che, didn't he come? Well, my cousin, he might be a little busy. But don't worry, Miss Xue. You will definitely meet again. Lin Feng, do you think Ah Che will forgive me? Oh, back then you My uncle was in a car accident, and Jiahai Group encountered an economic crisis and almost went bankrupt. At this time, you wanted to use a better future as an excuse to break up with your cousin and choose to go abroad . I must have felt a little uncomfortable. Back then, Zhong Jiaming threatened my mother's life. I have no choice, plus I was diagnosed with cancer , so I don't want to drag Ah Che down. Oh, it's all over. Don't think too much. Isn't your cousin not married in these years? I believe that as long as you apologize properly, there is still a chance. Okay , then I'll go to the hospital with you. Since he's the person he specially asked , he will definitely be there, right? Let's go. Hey, what are you talking about? Jianghai Group wants to come to our Zhixin factory to inspect. You hold on tight first. I'll go there now. Ah, let's talk about the foil first Tell me, Pei Che, I have some things to deal with . I'll go back later. Oops, this is so unprofessional. Hey, little girl, I've fallen down. Why don't you help me ? I just said Well, if they don't know her identity, who would be willing to help her? I want to kidnap her morally. Sorry , I have no morals. I'll just say it. She doesn't look like a good woman. She's not worthy of my grandson. It's time for me to show up. Grandma , ah, ah, that grandma. I won't overdo it. Something will happen , right ? Who are you? Why can't you see? If you don't want to die, get out now or you can shave him? Grandma, why can't you understand people? Anyway, my knife is going to draw blood , why don't you come and take his place? Don't look for me. I don't want to take his place. I'm leaving now. Ah, old woman, although I want glory and wealth , I don't want to die and let him go. I 'll be honest for him . Come on, get your props and pretend to subdue Lao Bai for a while . It turns out that this is all just acting. Guan An, you don't have to do it anymore. Struggle. We, Mr. Pei, already know everything about you. Don't try to coax the old lady anymore after this. Go and let him go. I'll do it for him . After all, people have to do more good deeds. This grandma is really unlucky to encounter this kind of thing. Come and do it for him. What you're doing is nothing more than that. If you want to ask for money or to escape with your life, you might as well kidnap me. This grandma is too old . What if grandma has a bad heart and is frightened to death during the process of being kidnapped by you ? In this case, you will lose more than you gain. Come over, okay. I can't go over. I'll go now. Put the things in my hands on the ground to see how sincere I am. You kidnap me. I'm young and in good health , and my family is very rich. I also have a factory. The reward of 1.8 million won't be a problem. Well, there are really people who are not afraid of death. Since you want to For him , then I will make it happen for you. Come here , girl, we are not relatives. Do n't do this kind of question for me. Leave me alone . Grandma, please go quickly. You won't have to pretend to fall and hit the porcelain in the future. Oh, what are you going to do? Grandma, what are you going to do? Go back quickly, you can't Let me do it for you in vain. Don't move. We are from the law enforcement team. Don't move. We are from the law enforcement team . I call you a stone to despise this lady. Thank you for your bravery. Leave it to us. Wait a minute . You are from the law enforcement team. Which district are you from? What's the law enforcement number? We are from this area, but we are new here and haven't been assigned a number, right? It's indeed a toy gun. Please understand it carefully before acting and learn common sense. I'm such a stupid aunt. I can't tell that you are in the same group. twenty three Ah ah ah ah, your titanium alloy handcuffs are not bad. The law enforcement team will be here soon. I won't accompany you in advance. Your surname is mine. I'll call you grandma. Grandma. The law enforcement team will be here soon. Do you think you should wait for them to pick you up or use my phone to call your family? I just Why didn't you help me when I fell down ? It's not that I didn't want to, but your acting skills are too bad. Normal people can see that you are acting. Is it true? My acting skills are so bad. Yes , and you see, your clothes are very cheap. But at first glance, it looks new and very neat. And your hands don't have any scissors. At first glance, it's nothing. You are really an old lady scavenging. Even if someone comes to help you , I still think that person has ulterior motives for you. It seems that Guoan is indeed lying to me like Azhe said. Then I will ask you again. Then you know that I am acting. Then why did you save me? Even though you were wrong just now , I can't just die without saving you. Ah, and you are a vulnerable group . I used to be the law enforcement team's rescuer. It is our bounden duty . Thank you. You're welcome . Then just wait here for the law enforcement team to come. I'll leave first. No, I have to follow. Why are you following me when you leave ? My son and daughter-in-law were in a car accident and are no longer here . My grandson is not filial to me. I'm alone. Since you saved me, you have to take responsibility for me. Grandma, that's not the case. Hey, factory director , come quickly . The person who came to inspect our factory this time is the president of Jianghai Group. He has been waiting for half an hour. If you don't want to come over again He 's leaving now. I'll be here right away. Grandma, I have to go to the factory now. You see, I'll go with you . Forget it . Then if you want to follow me, just follow me. Oh, girl, please walk slowly. I can't keep up with you. Come up. Well, it's not good for me to carry you on my back. If you don't come up, I'll leave. That 's great. Haha. Thank you, little girl . Just wait a little longer. Our factory director is really coming soon. Since your factory director is not here yet, there is no need to talk about cooperation with our Zhang Han . Let's go. Oh, why hasn't this come yet? What should we do? I'm here, grandma, and Song Yao . Am I that old? If you dare to say that , you're dead . Madam, don't you want to hide your identity? My dear, put grandma down. It seems that grandma has met the person I arranged. Pei Zhe, why are you here ? Factory director, you actually know the president of Jianghai Group . That's great. Who is he? This is the president of Jianghai Group. I am the assistant to the president of Jianghai Group . Assistant, assistant to the president of Jianghai Group , yes, he is my assistant . I am the assistant to the president of Jianghai Group. My name is Su Mu . But you just said clearly that he is the president of Jianghai Group. When did I leave? You must have heard wrong. Brother Zhao, are you sure they are really from Jianghai Group? Are you sure me and this Su The assistant has been in contact with him all the time. He must be from Jianghai Group. As for this person, he said personally that he is the president of Jianghai Group. What should I do ? The identity of the president cannot be concealed. It seems that this brat doesn't want Xiao Song to know about him. Could it be that your company just found someone outside to tell you your true identity ? It was the president of the group who was framed to act, right? Oh, since you have seen it all, I will show him off . I was hired to play the role of the president and the president of Jianghai Group. So why is it like this? You also know that our Jianghai Group pays great attention to this group. Our president also produces parts has committed fraud , so they have come up with this strategy to find someone to play the role of president . If he attaches so much importance to it, why doesn't he come in person ? That's because our president is old and sick and it's inconvenient for him to come in person. So what disease did he have ? He had hemorrhoids ? Are you okay? Grandma is okay. I just think that the president of Jianghai Group is very kind . He also told his subordinates that our president is particularly kind. Hahahaha. Then I have one last question. Why did you just find Pei Che to help you act? Oh, I took the initiative to find them. I have no job and no income. I'm afraid that one day you'll be unhappy and kick me out. I 'm just thinking about finding a job. I said I'll support you. How could I throw you out? If you 're not practical, Yang Yang, you're so good , aren't you? No, you're pretty good too. Yes, no, no, wait a minute. Why am I getting more and more confused the more I listen to this? Director, you and he are , oh, me. I forgot to introduce to you that I got married. This is my marriage partner, Pei Chejie, and the factory director. When did you get married ? Just in the past two days. Did the old factory director know about it? I haven't had time to tell my grandpa about it . Come on, the old village chief has been saying that he wants to get the two of us together, right? You look like I 'm 40 years old, so I'm a little anxious. I'm not 30 yet. Yes, I 'm anxious. Our factory director also said that he always wanted to find a son-in-law who knows everything about him. It doesn't matter if he comes to his house. As long as someone else is rich, he is afraid of our factory director. Being bullied . Actually, not all wealthy families bully others, right? The CEO's house is very good. If the owner of the house is like this gentleman and the family is like this grandma , do you still need to be afraid? No matter how good it is, it is not something that ordinary families like ours can reach. You don't know how many doors there are. A family with the wrong household is in turmoil because of this combination . Many of them have caused trouble to our law enforcement bureau. Besides, Pei Che and grandma can't really be rich. They can't pretend to be poor to deceive me, right, right? I'm just an ordinary old lady. Of course, there's no way they know that I am. That said , girl , if you are willing to find a poor boy to spend your life , not all poor boys are. No, I think Mr. Pei is pretty good like this. He is good-looking, gentle and motivated. My grandpa will definitely like it . Now that Shun Shun has already figured it out, haha, Assistant Su , let's continue talking about cooperation, Hua Huahua. Ah, uh, no need to visit. I think your factory is pretty good. Just sign the contract. Just sign it. Why is Deputy Director Zhao not willing ? Of course I am willing. Assistant Su, thank you very much. Thank you, Assistant Su. What did you say that Jianghai Group is going to cooperate with the Execution Acceleration Factory ? Yes, I heard it with my own ears. Look, I still have photos. Son, is this really someone from Jianghai Group? Could it be that dead girl deliberately looking for someone to act? This shouldn't be the person in the drama. I've seen him on TV. He is the company assistant to the president of Jianghai Group . Isn't this the son-in-law of that stinky girl? Why is she here ? By the way, I remembered that he seems to be the president of Jianghai Group. The president of Jianghai Group, are you sure he is the president of Jianghai Group ? No, no, no. I'm not sure. You just said he was the president of Jianghai Group, and now you're not sure who he is. His assistant said he was the president of Jianghai Group. After Song Yao came, he said he was an invited actor. Now I also agree. I can't tell whether he is or not. Hey, Xiaojie, please check it on your phone. Look at what the president of Jianghai Group looks like . There is no photo of the president on it . Then look at the name of the president of Jianghai Group. The president only 8 years ago was named Pei Hai. Now there is no Pei Hai or Pei Che. Could Pei Che be Song Yao's son-in-law? Or could he be the president of Jianghai Group? Hey , it's impossible. How could the dignified president of Jianghai Group like that stinky girl? Jianghai Group is one of the top big companies in our Linchuan City. How could a big shot like the president come into contact with a little guy like us, let alone get married? No matter what Said that what is certain now is Song Yao's There is something fishy about the identity of the son-in-law who came to our house. Your mother is right. We can focus on checking the identity of Pei Che. Don't worry, leave it to me. I promise to find out all eight generations of his ancestors . Especially, check whether he is Song Dynasty. The matter of Yao's visiting son-in-law would be of no use as long as it is found out that Pei Che is not Song Yao's visiting son-in-law. Regardless of whether the son-in-law is an ordinary person or a CEO, he has no qualifications to interfere in our family affairs. We can inherit the factory as a matter of course. Well, what is our plan? Wait a minute . I was originally thinking of tampering with the product to cause some trouble. That stinky girl retreated when she saw the difficulty, but she didn't expect that he would actually be with her Jianghai Group signed a contract with the Educated Youth Processing Factory. After all, it will be my industry in the future. Now there are benefits to cooperating with Jianghai Group . Let's suspend the plan for now. Don't worry, Chen Er, I will promote you to deputy director when our family gets the inheritance rights of the factory. Haha, thank you. Uncle Song , oh, it shouldn't be thank you, Director Song. Hey, sit down. Happy cooperation here. Oh, I can't hold it if my hand cramps . Happy cooperation. Happy cooperation . Okay, Mr. Pei, please send Assistant Su back quickly. I think it's getting dark. No, no, no, I can drive back by myself . How can I accompany the car? Your assistant, why do I have the words &quot;Pour Rice Tiangang&quot; in my mind ? Today's task has been completed. You can get off work early. Isn't your work a daily settlement? Of course it's not just right. Assistant Su is very considerate and told me before going to work that if the work is completed in advance, I can get off work early. Then you tomorrow Can I still go to work at Jianghai Group? Yes, of course I can do both. But if you hire him as an assistant, you won't be able to make the same mistake. It's okay. Thank you, Assistant Su . Thank you, Assistant Su. By the way, Assistant Su, here are your car keys . By the way, isn't Miss Song going to send this grandma home? How about me? Just send her off. It just so happens that I can drive her. Oh, I won't let you send her off. I want to spend the night with Xiao Song. I still want to live with Xiao Song. Hey, grandma, I can understand how you like my wife, but our family is really small and we can't entertain you well. Just go back with Assistant Su as soon as possible. Humph, don't be too old. Madam, this is your fault. The newlyweds are in love. What were you doing in the past? Go home quickly. Yes, please go back quickly. Grandma , I remember this grandma said that she has an unfilial grandson. Are you afraid that you will be alone when you go back? An unfilial grandson. Yes, I do have an unfilial grandson. My filial grandson, if he still doesn't listen to me, why don't you do this? Grandma, I'll go over and see you when I have time. How are you? You young people like to deceive us old ladies . Is it true that I visit you every day ? I guarantee we don't all have contact information. If you need anything, just call me. Okay , okay. Grandma comes to see grandma every day. Oh, by the way , grandma also gives you a gift. This is the heirloom of the Pei family. It seems that grandma really approves of Song Yao. Grandma, put it on for you. Grandma, I won't accept it. It's too expensive. What's a bracelet? You saved my life today. Since it is Just accept grandma's wishes, eh, Miss Song, as the saying goes, saving a life is better than building a seven-level pagoda. Factory Manager, this is the old lady 's thank you. Just accept it. Okay, I'll accept it. Thank you grandma . Hahaha . Take it with you. Haha. By the way, if that brat dares to bully you , tell grandma that grandma is taking it out on you. Grandma. Don't worry, besides , he can't beat him. Hahaha, grandma 's mouth was swollen when she saw it. This grandma is our family's housework, so I won't worry about it. Go back and consider yourself gone . In fact, this grandma is quite pitiful. Her son and daughter-in-law were all gone in a car accident, and only her unfilial one is left. My wife probably didn't even spend time with her properly. Maybe she just wanted to attract other people's attention. Really? A hateful person must be pitiful. Aren't you afraid that he came here specifically to deceive you? I have nothing to deceive. I have nothing but this place. Unless my grandma wants me to be his granddaughter-in-law, that's pretty cool. It's possible , but Pei Che, don't worry, I won't be easily abducted . Alas, alas, alas. You guys want to go home and go home. There is a single guy here. Well, there are still some details to be finalized about the contract. Let's go to the office to talk. Hey, I just happened to answer a phone call. You go first, uh, let's go . Hey, bro, when are you coming to the hospital? Maybe I won't come over today ? I won't come over, right? Why? Okay, I have something to deal with here . By the way, how is the disease that I asked you to see last time ? You can talk about that grandpa. Well, his condition is a bit tricky, but there is still a solution. I need to discuss it with my teacher then. How long will it take to give you a reply ? About 3-5 Oh my god, because his condition has not been very stable, I changed his medicine and the surgery will take a week, so there is no need to be too anxious. Cousin, who is yours? It should be my grandfather, right ? He can't be my new grandpa, hey, don't make random guesses In two days, I'll cook a meal and introduce you to each other. Is there anything I can't say ? Is there anything you can do ? Actually, there is something I've always wanted to tell you about snow, uh, blood. Patients need to save blood before surgery. What's your grandfather's blood type? If it's type B, I'll make arrangements with the hospital in advance. It's nothing to say hello . I'll hang up first. Isn't it so ruthless? Just throw it away after you use it. He hasn't finished it yet. By the way , Miss Xu, why didn't you tell your cousin just now that you were back? It's all because of the fake cancer cases abroad that suddenly appeared on the express delivery. There was a problem during transportation and I didn't pick it up. Of course I can't immediately see the compensation until the case is guaranteed to be foolproof . I just don't feel ready to see him. I'm afraid that Azhe won't forgive me. I won't. It's just a misunderstanding between you two. My cousin will definitely forgive him. You will always meet again, or wait. I'll tell him when I'm ready. Let's not talk about this. Xiaofeng, I want you to do me one more favor. Xiaojie, you said that as long as I can help, I will definitely help me. I want you to take me to meet someone. It's really hard. Ah, my eldest grandson has a grandson-in-law. Why don't he go home early and be alone here? Did n't you like to give it away before? Grandma , oh, isn't this grandma's eldest grandson Xiaofeng? Why are you back? Let me see how much you have lost . Hahaha. Is it because my cousin insists on letting me go back to China to treat some kind of patient for him? He also said that his patient was one of his What kind of grandpa is this? Grandma, can't you find me a new grandpa? You damn kid, what are you talking about ? Your grandma and cousin didn't even tell me. The one who can make Archer call grandpa must be Xiao Song's grandpa. Really? If I tell this brat, I'm afraid he will make a fuss to see Xiao Song today. Archer 's identity must not be hidden . Who do you care about him? As long as he is important to your cousin, why didn't I even tell you? I'm so perfunctory . You , Assistant Su, why are you here with your cousin ? What on earth is he busy with? Why didn't you follow him? Then what? Mr. Pei asked me to confirm that I delivered the old lady home safely. Now that I have confirmed it, I will go back to Mr. Pei first. This grandson escaped so fast. Come on, grandma, let's go home. Home hahaha Ha, grandma, besides coming to see you today, I want you to meet someone else. Zhuang Xueyao, you are not welcome in our house. Let you come. Go out. Grandma, what happened half a year ago was a misunderstanding. Listen to my explanation. I listen to your explanation. Go out, no, no, you. Sit down first and don't get excited. In fact, the lady 8 years ago was not the old lady. The reason why I left my cousin intentionally was because she had cancer. Cancer is my grandma. I chose to leave because of cancer. I didn't mean to leave Archer on purpose. Since you have cancer, why didn't you tell Archer ? Do you know that he didn't finish his studies in college? I haven't graduated yet, my parents were in a car accident, and the company is in crisis again. Haha, you still left him like you were greedy for vanity. Do you know how he came here when he saw him? I know it, grandma , but Archer was already under a lot of pressure at that time . I didn't want to be a burden to him anymore. And what was the situation in our family at that time? I know that my father threatened my mother's life Threaten me that I have to go abroad or else I won't treat my mother's illness. I am also sick and have no choice but to do it . Grandma, what are you doing ? You know how good my relationship with Achi has been in the past three years. If it weren't for this matter, we would have gotten married long ago. Grandma. I don't ask you to forgive me now. I just ask you to give me another one. Can you give me this chance to make up for you and Ah Cheng? Grandma, please give Miss Xu a chance. What you said is true . Grandma, I thought my illness would never be cured. I didn't expect it to be cured while I was abroad. It's just that my mother passed away two days ago. I also want to go back to China this time. I want to bring his ashes back , and I want you and Ah Chun to forgive Miss for being so pitiful. Why don't you give him a chance ? You didn't do anything wrong. You should always know that things change as time goes by, right ? Tooru , he can't always be there waiting for you. What do you mean, grandma? Are you saying that you have already fallen in love with someone else? This is impossible. I have been paying attention to his news in these years. If he falls in love with someone else , I will definitely know . Grandma, yes, grandma, my cousin has not heard anything in the past few years. There is a saying among other women that they would rather tear down ten temples than one marriage. If you don't break up a marriage in a temple , what should Archer and Xiao Song do? I don't ask you to forgive me now , but I hope you don't refuse me to come and see you. Is that okay ? Does Archer know you are coming back? I don't know. I want to wait two days to find a suitable opportunity and then tell him in another two days. Give Ah Che and Xiao Song more time to get along . Maybe by then he will have made the right decision in his heart . Since it's your young people's business , I won't get involved. Then it's up to Ah Che how to choose . Okay, thank you, grandma. Thank you, miss grandma . I'll see you off. You don't have to take a taxi myself . You stay here and stay with grandma . Grandma, I'm leaving. Feed Qin Hao. What's going on with the troops? How could there be a problem in transportation? Don't worry. I've run out of medical records. a chapter I have already chased him back . I am waiting for you to see a new one tomorrow. How can I not be anxious ? Do you know that I almost met him today , my dear wife? It really makes me so anxious to see your old lover. This husband is a little jealous, but you are so cruel. 8 years ago, I accompanied Che into desolation. You can leave him to transition to my family. 8 years later, he has become prosperous and you can't. I can make up various reasons and go back to him with peace of mind. Qin Hao, what do you mean ? I did all this for you. If it weren't for your company that had problems and needed funds , why would I need to come back to him? Well, well, well, I was wrong, Chenchen. Come on, son, say hello to your mother. Mom, I miss you. When will you come back? Chenchen, wait until mom is done with her work and then go back to find you, okay? Okay, let's go play, don't worry, wife, I will wait for you at home with my son. This Qinghe will only use my son to threaten me. Pei Che, for the sake of my son, I can only apologize to you once again . It's so hard to be a factory director, but you can still do it. There are so many documents waiting for me to deal with. Don't you know that my grandpa is tired? I haven't gone to see grandpa today. Hey, didn't you find a caregiver ? I have contacted Dr. Lu. Seriously , you have contacted Dr. Lu. Well, it just happened that Dr. Lu happened to be on a business trip in Linchuan City. Dr. Lu has already treated my grandpa's disease. Doctor Lu said that my grandpa will be cured within a week. It's really great that I can have the operation. My grandpa is saved. Thank you for staying with me. I'm sorry. I'm so excited. Are you okay? Director Song, please show me your strength. I really don't know anything about it. I 'm not too excited. But luckily your pants didn't break this time . Hey, what about the pants I bought for you? Didn't I tell you? You don't need to buy them . How can that be done? I broke your pants, so I should. All I have to compensate you is that I don't know where to put it, so I'll go shopping with you next time. Okay, then it's settled that your clothes were given to you by Assistant Su. It's yours. Don't you need to give it back to him? Tell him that he gave it to me. This set is mine. Assistant Su is such a good person. You must follow him and work hard. But if you are unhappy at work, go home. Song The factory manager raised you, although I may not seem that reliable, but I really want to live with you. I also want to live with you sincerely . i'm falling slowly in love with you. It's getting late. I'm going to take a shower. Go to bed early. cause i'm falling slowly in love with you. How about you sleep in my room tonight ? Sonja, do you know what you are talking about? Of course I know what I am talking about. We are husband and wife. We have to sleep together morning and night. If we go to bed earlier and go to bed later, what does it matter? But what you said is not that I regret it. I take back what I just said. Now I regret it . I haven't taken a shower yet. This is what you said . Oh, don't want it. I don't want it anymore. I regret it. I take back what I just said. Now I regret it. It's over. Hey, I haven't taken a shower yet Mr. Pei, I will go to the hospital to see grandpa later and then go to the factory. You go to work quickly. Okay, please be safe. Bye, be careful. Dad, Mr. Pei, wake up. This Pei Che really has a problem. President, hey , hey, hey, what are you doing? I'll go find someone and a company There are regulations that only senior executives of the company are allowed to ride in this elevator. Please go to the ordinary elevator and ride in it. You know who I am and you dare to stop me . I am that person's brother-in-law. You are the one next to Assistant Su's brother-in-law. Haha, you might as well be called Assistant Su's brother-in-law. Do you know who is that next to you? Who is it? He is the president of our Jianghai Group. He is the president of your Jianghai Group. Of course, then why have we never seen him on TV? Our president is too low-key and rarely appears in public. But why am I telling you this ? You are not here to inquire about company secrets. Of course not. I am really here to find my brother-in-law. You asked me to come back. Our president is not even married. How can he be your brother- in-law? Hurry up and leave. I called security You wait, Xiaojie, what you said is true. You really heard someone from Jianghai Group say that Pei Che is the CEO . How many times have I told you this over and over again? This is true. My dear, this is true. Song Yang actually found a CEO as her husband. What should I do? Well , whatever you want to do, just do whatever you want. So what if Pei Che is the president of Jianghai Group ? This just shows that he can never be Song Yao's son-in-law . If we really inherit the processing plant , will Pei Che? for that If Song Yao goes abroad and destroys our business, it will be destroyed . If we sell the factory, it will be worth hundreds of thousands. I think my dad is right. Jianghai Group obviously doesn't know about Pei Che's marriage. He might take Song Yao away. If you treat him as a plaything for his entertainment, you may not vent his anger for him. Let's go and expose that Song Yao now. Don't worry, the second uncle is going to die soon. We have to invite the clan leader first so that we can resolve the matter clearly. Grandpa Bai Zhencheng , let me tell you, your granddaughter, I, married myself off. When you wake up, I will bring your grandson-in-law to see your aunt . You must wake up quickly. It is still early , so you can go and see her. How about the grandma surnamed Bai yesterday? This is the massage plan I customized for you. Hmm, it's comfortable . Phone. Hey, grandma, don't move yet. Who can I get for you ? Xiaosong. Who is this Xiaosong ? Hahaha, Xiaosong. Hello. Grandma, are you at home? I'll go over and find you now. Haha, you're at home. You can come. Okay, then send your address to my mobile phone . Grandma is waiting for you. Hahahaha, grandma. Who is this Xiao Song? Who is this Xiao Song? Ah, he is the one I recently made friends with . Grandma , when did you get the habit of making friends? I suddenly want to make friends with you. Hey, you brat, why are you asking so many questions? Quickly, enter this address to him and send it to him. Xiao Song No. 324 Jiucheng Lane, Chaoyun Road Oh, hahaha, okay, grandma, the property at this address doesn't seem to belong to our family. It sounds a bit remote. I bought it myself. Why are you buying a house? It's an adult's business and children ask so many questions. What are you doing? I'm going to change clothes and go out. You are busy with your own business. What kind of year-end friendship is this? The one who asked grandma to buy a house and change her clothes must be because she encountered some fraud group, right? No, I have to go and see what new creative plan you have come up with , teacher . Okay, my current information will be over soon. Hey, why did these two things suddenly collide? Forget it, let Miss Xu go. Miss Xu's grandma's behavior was a bit unusual today. I suspected that she might have been deceived. I gave the address for a while. I sent it to you. You can go take a look for me. If you have any questions, please send me a message. No. 324. It seems like this is it . Grandma, are you at home? I am Song Yao, grandma. Oh, it's Xiao Song. Look at your child. Come here. What are you doing with so many things here ? Put it down. Grandma , your house is so neat. It looks like nothing I have ever lived in before. I usually live alone. My grandson doesn't come back often and he cleans more frequently. Haha, what is this? It's terrible. it 's me I forgot to put away the photo I planned to show Xiao Guo. Haha, it's just a photo. Hahaha, there's nothing interesting about it . Is that your grandson in the photo? I'm already married. Are you afraid that I'll abduct your grandson ? Could it be possible ? If it is really my grandson's wife, then I will be extremely happy. Hahaha, but I just saw a little bit. The one in white is your grandson, right? She is really handsome . It's a pity that I didn't see the other one and couldn't see clearly. More Okay , haha, what did you say ? It's okay. It's okay. It's not my grandson. It doesn't matter if he can't see clearly . Haha, grandma, you have made an appointment with someone else. No, then you sit down first and I'll go see who you are. Are you Miss Xue? Are you Xiao Song? Who is it? Grandma, it's me. Why is he here too ? Grandma, this is Sister Xueyao. It turns out you know Sister Xueyao. You guys know each other. You know me. How could I not know you? It was you who sponsored me 8 years ago. I still have you at home. Where are the photos ? Are you I 've admitted the wrong person. I've never sponsored anyone else. The sponsor's information says it's you, right? Maybe I forgot. Grandma, how did you find this? Lin Feng said, let me come over and take a look. You said you were afraid that you would be arrested. What will happen if someone deceives me? The brat will talk nonsense there. Yes, Miss Xu, you don't have to worry that I will lie to grandma . Before, I was a member of the law enforcement team who couldn't enforce the law and break the law . I told him so . and Miss Song It's a year-end friend . You see, nothing will happen. Since you see nothing, let's go . Grandma, didn't we agree yesterday? You won't refuse me to come to see you again. Oh, don't you think I have guests here? It's inconvenient. You can leave first. It's okay. Grandma, sister Xue Yao, is here. Oh, little girl, what do you know? Your grandma, this is the ginseng and bird's nest I bought for you. They are all good supplements. After you eat them, they are very good for your health. Grandma, sister Xue Yao, are good to you. Good on you How did we meet ? I think she is my grandson's ex-girlfriend and I am grandma's grandson's ex-girlfriend. There was some misunderstanding with grandma before. It turns out that Sister Xueyao is grandma's ex-girlfriend who slept with her grandson. So now the misunderstanding is solved, right? That's it. Grandma has forgiven me, right? Now that the misunderstanding has been resolved, can you please be nice to Sister Xue'er? This silly girl Xiao Song was really sold by others and she is still counting money for others. Okay, okay, come and sit down first. Next, grandma, I see you have such a good relationship with this Miss Song. How did you meet ? Yesterday, grandma was in danger and I rescued her. I heard grandma said that she was often at home alone , so I came over to see her every day . It's really troublesome for you. Grandma, I'll come over to see you every day from now on, okay? What's this? Grandma, Sister Xueer, you guys talk first, then I'll leave. Hey, Mr. Qiao, please go slowly. Grandma, I'll see you off. Send her Song Yao Sister Xue'er , I hope you won't come to grandma again in the future. Can I ask why? After all, I will accompany grandma from now on . Besides, it's not convenient for you to come when there is an outsider at home. Sister Xue Yao, are you afraid that I will meet grandma's grandson? Ah, don't worry, I'm already married . You're married , right. I already have a husband , and we have a very good relationship . Am I worrying too much? Does grandma really just treat her as an ordinary junior? Otherwise, Miss Xue, let's add her to WeChat. I When I come, I will ask you first if it is not convenient for you to come to WeChat. Why is this bracelet in your hand? Grandma gave it to me . Grandma gave it to you. Why did grandma give you this bracelet? Do you know that this is Jia Jia? Song saved my life and I don't want to give it away. But grandma, this bracelet, why do I have to get your consent before I give it to me? No , grandma, I didn't mean that. Xiaosong, go and get busy. I'll explain to her that grandma didn't mean that. It's true that this bracelet is too expensive. No matter how expensive it is, it's just a bracelet. I'll give it to you and wear it . Also, next time you can come whenever you want. You don't need anyone's consent. Okay , grandma, I'll leave now, little one. My sister is fine , but grandma, I heard A Che say that this bracelet is an heirloom of the Pei family and will be passed on to the Pei family's daughter-in-law. Wife, why do you give it to an outsider so easily ? Xiao Song saved my life, let alone a family heirloom. No matter how important it is from the Pei family, I am willing to give it to him. What's more, Xiao Song is not an outsider, nor is he an outsider. Nana What do you mean? Anyway, I have the final say on this matter, so you don't have to worry about it. Now Xiao Song doesn't know about me. There's nothing wrong with your true identity . You shouldn't come here casually to avoid revealing your secret . It's nothing. Grandma, although I've only known Xiao Song for two days , why am I so partial to this child? Oh, what a heirloom and identity concealment. This Song Yao is absolutely I have a question , Detective Liu . I want you to help me track and investigate a person named Yu Chang. What are you doing to scare me? I'm usually so vigilant. Why didn't I notice you were worried when I was so close to you today? It's okay. What should you do if you are hated by others ? Director Song is not afraid of anything and everything. He is also afraid of being disliked by others. He is that person . He once helped me. I don't want him to hate me. The person you saw today, well, he should be from the factory. No one is perfect and everyone likes him, but I'm still not very happy . Since he helped you once , you should also find a chance to help him once. Since you two don't owe each other, you don't have to worry about gains and losses, right? What if I do it in the future? If I meet him again, I can ask him if he needs my help. If that doesn't work, I'll give the money back to Xue. Sister Yao, Pei Che, why are you so smart? How could you be like this? Not to mention that you are actually married , and the person is actually Song Yao. No, no , I haven't got the cancer case yet . It's not the time to see him , but I can't just sit back and wait for death. The factory director has someone outside. Sister Xue Yao, do n't be surprised. I came here specifically to see you today. You said I was qualified 8 years ago. I helped you, right? Yes, you gave our family 200,000 yuan. If you need it now, I will transfer the money to you now. No need. I just need you to do one thing for me. What is it? Let's add WeChat first. Then I will tell you Miss Zhu. Your express delivery has finally arrived. Thank you . Detective Liu. Where is Song Yao now ? In the hospital. Is there anything else? The car is on the way to the hospital. How is Dr. Zhao from Yaoyao ? It has been 6 hours since grandpa entered the operating room. Isn't the operation two days away? Why is it suddenly advanced? Lu Linfeng, this brat, can do such a big thing. If you don't tell me, I heard Dr. Liu say that it was Dr. Lu who notified Dr. Liu at short notice and didn't know about it, so it's possible that it's okay. It was his teacher who changed the plan for him. Don't worry. Lu Linfeng still has two brushes. Speaking of which, I haven't met Dr. Lu until now. When I see him, I must thank him in person. I don't want to thank him properly. I was just in a hurry today and didn't prepare anything. Well, how about we go buy it now ? People will be given red envelopes directly on TV, so why don't we prepare a big red envelope ? But if you go to withdraw cash now, won't you have time to walk around? Just scan the QR code. Do you want to give away Dr. Lu's career? Now the country prohibits giving money to doctors. How do you thank him for the red envelope ? Don't worry, you will have another identity to thank him in the future . Well , what is your identity ? Come out quickly. Grandpa, grandpa, doctor, the operation was very successful. The patient will be awake in about half an hour. That's great. Thank you, doctor. No need to thank you. If I want to thank you, just thank Dr. Lu. Dr. Lu, why didn't he come out? Dr. Lu is still inside taking notes. He should be out soon. You can wait here. I'll push the patient into the ward first. Director , then I'll go with the doctors. You and Xiaobai wait at home and wait for Mr. Lu to come out. Thank you. I don't know when Dr. Lu will come out. I'm getting more and more curious about him. Yaoyao, actually. I have something to tell you . Actually, Lu Linfeng, he is my Song Yao. You really make it easy for us to find you sister. My husband is here too. We are all here. What are you doing here? Of course I am here to visit my second uncle and take back the things that belong to our family. I made it very clear last time. Don't even think about wanting my grandfather's property. I want to see you. Why don't you think Song Ya is the way your grandfather taught you to talk to his own people, not to mention he is your cousin. What's wrong with my cousin again ? Cousin, he is superior to me. That's natural. Look at which women in the group are like you. They are either respectful to their brothers , or they should be called cousins like him. Celebrating dragons. People like him should be celebrated as dragons. Then should I kowtow to you now? I just can't figure it out. You are obviously from the same generation. How can you be so outstanding and say such things? Yaoyao , I think it's better to sign up for these elders. Hey, I heard that this hospital treats brain injuries. Dr. Liu, please listen. Listen, listen, this is how Song Yao and his son-in-law talk to their elders. They don't even care about you, the patriarch. In Song Yang's eyes, I won't argue with you for the sake of your lack of parental upbringing. You should know why I'm here today. I'll say it again. My grandfather's things were originally reserved for me and he wanted me to give them to others. Do n't even think about what it means to have my father be the first heir to my second uncle. The country's inheritance law stipulates this. The order of the first heir should be the spouse, children, parents. If the decedent's children die before the decedent, the direct relatives or serum of the descendants of the decedent's children will inherit by subrogation. This is still in the case where the grandfather has not made a will. I want to ask you a few questions. Which of the above relationships does position have? We follow the clan rules If things are done according to the rules of the clan, please stop talking about these useless things. Since things are done according to the rules of the clan , then Yaoyao is also the first heir to grandpa. What's the problem ? I have a son-in-law who can inherit my grandpa's legacy. Humph, I'm waiting for you to come to me with this sentence . Son-in-law is really a joke. How can you prove that he is your door-to-door son-in-law? How can you? Prove that he is not my door-to-door son- in-law . Of course I know that he is not an ordinary person as you said. He is the president of Jianghai Group. He is the president of Jianghan Group. You guys really can say anything for the sake of your family fortune . You probably can. You don't know yet? Our Zhixin Processing Factory has already cooperated with Jianghai Group. If Pei If Che is really the president of Jianghai Group, how could the people of Jianghai Group not recognize him? Song Yao, Song Yao, should I say that you are innocent or that you are stupid? Didn't you think that he has been there from the beginning to the end? Are you acting in front of you? No, I believe Pei Che will never do it. I will go. Why are there so many people ? You are all Song. Jianguo's family members, you are the grandson of Grandma Bai. Where did she come from? Grandma died a long time ago. But I have a grandma and cousin named Bai. Why are you here ? What do you call him cousin? He is my cousin. We are cousins. Why can't I tell him if I don't call him cousin Lingfeng ? Oh, the cousin of the president of Jianghai Group , then you should be Jiangcheng Lu How about you, Song Ying, now you believe what I say is true? Pei Che , didn't you tell me before that Dr. Lu was just a doctor who treated your relatives? How could he call you Ciao ? Brother and cousin, what is going on with the stuffy nose ? Pei Che, you are not lying to me. What they said is not true. You are not from the Jianghai Group. President, are you right? Don't worry. As long as you say no, even if all of them correct you, I won't believe it. Listen to me and explain that things are not like this. In fact, I am so just like what they said, you have been lying to me. You said that what I hate the most is cheating on purpose. I originally planned to tell you today. Yours, so what you mean is that as long as you tell me this, it's not cheating, right? Let me think about what else you're lying to me about. You and Grandma Bai already know each other, right? You and Grandma Bai join forces. Are you lying to me, right ? I'm sorry , Beiche. Is it fun to lie to me? The marriage I have always treated sincerely is in your eyes. Isn't it just a one-sided scam ? Wait, wait, what kind of marriage? My son is married and she is my wife. What should Miss Xue do? Zhong Xueyao, what Xueyao are you talking about ? Lu Linfeng, in fact, Sister Xueyao had difficulties 8 years ago. She has been back to China for several days, but she has never dared to come to see you and asked me to keep it secret from Nannan. It turns out that you are hiding your knowledge of Zhong Xueyao from me. So you are Grandma Bai's grandson, Zhou Xueyao, is your ex-girlfriend, right? Pei Che, you have always been treating me like a fool and deceiving Pei Che. Okay, okay , let's do it. But I don't have time to see what kind of rift you guys are having. Since he's not your son-in-law, Song Yao should take care of the family. The production has been returned to us, right? It's mainly the processing factory. Even if I'm not Song Yao's son-in-law, if you dare to grab something , I'll immediately stop all cooperation with Zhixin Factory. So what? We'll sell the factory to the head of the group. Wake up soon, old leader. He's awake. You can't say anything. He's awake. Say it to another woman. It's you , hey, the head of the group, hey, the woman I just talked about can't be Miss Xu, right? Why is Miss Du here? Just now, Miss Xu sent me a message saying that she wanted to come and see you. I will tell your cousin about Miss Song's grandfather's comments. Hey, hey. What on earth is going on? Didn't it mean that Song Jianglong was saved by him? Why did he suddenly wake up again ? Could it be that Lu Linfeng saved Er? Uncle, it's impossible . How long has it been since then? Maybe he has regained his luster. Otherwise, let's go and have a look. Team leader, what do you think? Of course you have to go and have a look. Otherwise, how did you get the family property? You forgot what you mentioned besides the processing plant . Everything will be placed in the overall communication team leader. Don't worry, we will definitely do what we say. Grandpa , you will Just me, Xiao Zhong. Grandpa Yaoyao, here you are. Grandpa, please meet Xiao Zhong. He is a kind person who helped us before. I know grandpa , Miss Xu and I have met. Oh, silly girl, why are you crying? Look, grandpa is not fine now, grandpa. It's great that you can wake up, it's great , it's great, it's me , it 's me . If it's your Yaoyao, then are you still willing to marry Yaoyao ? Do n't come over, Yue'er. The one I just wanted to call was you , not him. You don't have to explain to me, Mr. Pei. From now on , no matter who you call, you have nothing to do with me. How come it suddenly doesn't matter? You and Xiaobei are not us . We are nothing. Brother Zhao, Mr. Pei , Miss Zhou and Dr. Lu, please come out. Go, I want to be alone with my grandpa for a while. Factory elder and factory director, I will go out first. If you need anything, call me again . Isn't this deputy factory director Zhao? Why are you here ? Do you still want to kick the factory director until he is critically ill? Don't worry . Thinking that you are the deputy director of Ershu Factory, you dare to speak to us like this. See clearly that the patriarch of the Song family is also coming with us. I really didn't expect that I could have the clan chief come to me when I was sick . You and I are also old people in the clan . I care about you on behalf of our clan. Miss Zhong and these two gentlemen, please go out first and let us take care of the housework . Ah Cheng , let's not disturb Miss Song and Song Yanyan. I still There are so many things I want to tell you. I didn't expect that Pei Che actually fell in love with Song Yao. He still looks so deeply in love. Yaoyao Peichang, don't make me hate you more. Go away, Pei He. This is their family matter after all. Ah, I'll wait for you outside, so don't beat around the bush. Are you all here for my property ? Guo, I see you have been sick for quite some time. I heard Song Cheng say that he asked the doctor last time and said that you probably don't have long left. According to the rules of our group, after your death, your family property should be inherited by your son. But your son died long ago, so your eldest nephew has to inherit your family property. I don't have a son. Son, but I still have a granddaughter. I don't plan to give my things to others. I will leave them all to my granddaughter Yaoyao. How can a woman inherit the family property? This is not in line with the rules of the clan. Jiang Guo, if you dare to go against the whole clan this time, just go against it. Well, I, Longlong, am just such a granddaughter. If I don't leave it to him, who will I leave it to? Yes, I will. There is only such a grandpa. If my grandpa doesn't give it to me, who can I give it to? I don't think it's just my good uncle who wants to covet my grandpa's family property. The patriarch, you also want you. Are you not afraid of being famous in the clan by doing this? Team leader, please calm down with me. Second uncle, he doesn't mean that. No matter how hard you tell him, he will become famous . Why do I say to be expelled? We don't want to be in the clan for a long time. Second uncle, what are you talking nonsense? If you are expelled from the clan, you will never come back again. Yes, these people are all about returning to their roots . If you become famous among the clan , no one will visit the grave anymore. You won't be needed. Don't you worry about the future? I, Yaoyao, will visit my grave . How can my daughter's family be qualified to visit the grave? You can't live in peace, and you can't be buried with your aunt and the others . When a person dies, it's nothing more than a pile of loess . Where to bury it? I got this serious illness. I can see clearly that there is nothing but our Yao. Yao is important. Team leader, please go to the team and help our grandfather and grandson. Song Jianguo, if you die, don't regret it . I'm afraid I will disappoint you. Doctor Lu said that after this operation, he said that my grandfather can live ten years. It won't be a problem for eight years. Then it won't be certain who will die first. Sit down , sit down, hurry up. Go to the director, go to the doctor, come on, uncle , please don't show up in front of me, Mr. He. Doctor, are you okay , doctor, doctor, what's wrong ? I'm going to the doctor right now. Our team leader has fainted . Please take a look at him. Come on , hurry up and go to the emergency room. Come and let me take a look too. Let's talk about Ah Che, okay? Grandpa, you will be ours from now on. The ancestor of our family. When I have children, my children's children will always remember your goodness. I know that my granddaughter is the most filial. Grandpa, you must live a long life. Yes, I want a long life. I want to live a long life. Seeing my Yaoyao getting married and having a family, I will give birth to a little Yaoyao grandpa . I won't fight anymore. Just now That boy is the son-in-law you are looking for, right? Grandpa, how did you know that when I was in a coma, I heard you whispering in my ear , and I heard you in a daze. Tell grandpa, do you like him? I do, but grandpa, he lied to me . I don't want to like him anymore. Grandpa, will you blame me? If you don't like him, you don't like me. Yaoyao, then you should find the best one . You want to find a son-in-law from the Wenqu constellation in the sky. Grandpa wants to go up and pull him down to give me Yaoyao as a son-in-law. How can it be so exaggerated? Grandpa, are you thirsty? I'll get you a drink. Shuicheng , I really had no choice but to leave you. Look, this is my cancer medical record. Ah Cheng Sir, please respect yourself . Yaoyao Ache, let's start over, okay? Zhong Xueyao, don't you understand? It's over between us. Some misunderstandings are over, even if they are brought out again, it will be useless. The only one I love now is Song Yao, Ache. Please let me explain. Mr. Pei, please stop calling me Yaoyao. What I called you just now is true. It's you and I didn't call anyone else . That's how you called Sister Xueyao before, right? Me and Zhong Xueyao are already in the past tense. I really only love you and you are the only one in my heart. Pei Che, don't you understand now ? I never cared about what you had with him in the past. What I cared about was that you lied to me . I'm not smart , but I'm not stupid. There are obviously many opportunities to confess to me, but why did you? Why did you lie to me ? If I told you, I didn't expect it to end like this, would you believe it? So you could selfishly deceive me. Do you watch me doing stupid things in the dark ? I'm sorry, I was wrong. Can you? You can't give me another chance. It's not necessary. We haven't been entangled for long. Pei Zhe, let's get a divorce. I really want to live with you. The spring breeze and autumn rain have fallen, and the apricot blossom has fallen asleep. How many years have passed, and the fallen leaves have become the spring breeze. The obsession of Bodhi is gone. The same plot, Pei Cheng, I will definitely make you fall in love with me again