- [Shane] Over the years, that I need quick access to, and like many of you, I've always battled with the best way to So today, let's end that struggle once and for all with for the tool wall, on Timber Biscuit. One of the most important over my woodworking career it's really important that There's nothing worse than and over other tools to that you know you need, or in You know what I'm talking about. And over the years, that I've really focused Now, I know a lot of you are &quot;Wait, you've already Why would you need to change?&quot; Well, to be honest with of French cleat walls, as we go through the process today. So the first step on this was to take down all what I wanted to hang on my tool wall. Now for my case, I'm gonna be as they're the ones that I When it comes to hand tools I've already got those mostly covered, but my layout tools so this should wrangle them in. Then from there I could map that I want to hang and cut it down. Now for my tool wall, I'm gonna be using 3/4 Baltic birch, but you feel accents your shop. A good amount of my from Baltic birch plywood, And as I've said in the should reflect the type of and that was another goal So with that in mind, is just milling down some scrap walnut that I have left over What I wanna do with this into a couple strips that I'll use to frame out my Baltic birch sheet. Now again here, as regular this is just my lumber preference, feel free to use whatever lumber you feel represents you in your shop. I think shop furniture to try something new or play that you don't normally use. I'm just sticking with a ton of it in the shop that And as an added bonus, I'll be addressing some of that organization in this video, because I've that I need to make space for, so I gotta get these offcuts organized. So with my walnut cut down I'll take those pieces over to my planer to thickness 'em down. Now I often get questions to use my bandsaw over my table saw for ripping down lumber like this, and the reason I do so is because I feel like it's a lot at the bandsaw than it And that's especially true for work pieces that might have a lot of like these long thin pieces. And as I'm shooting so it's cooler and drier and I'll take whatever precautions I can to alleviate some risk. I guess you could say like it's a little chilly. So with my strips to I took the work pieces to cut in the rabbets. Now again, I'm gonna like a large picture frame, into the back side of and then I'll trim them as I cut the miters for the frame. So in this case, rather what I'll do here is then rotate the piece 90 degrees and cut a second groove, which will lead me with The only trick here is to make sure that you're using a ripping blade that has a flat tooth grind. This way you're left with a nice flat rabbet when everything's done. And if you do have a you can easily clean those a router plane, or even just some chisels. And with that being said, of the day, this is shop furniture, not a museum quality piece, and I'll put on my glasses. All right, so the next step and swap in my ripping and tilt that guy to 45 degrees. From there, I'll choose a miter gauge to go ahead and cut 45 degree miters onto one edge of all my work pieces, and I'll take those to mark out the final length. Now here I'm not gonna measure anything. I actually don't know of any of these pieces are. Instead I'll just use a bevel gauge to mark everything out at 45 Once I have that marking, I can take my work piece and trim it down to the final length. This gives me really without having to do any actual measuring. Nice. From there, I just repeat that process and take my work pieces once the dust collector's working again and cut them down to their final length. And I just do this working until I have all four sides and then I can glue 'em in place. I know there's a lot of different ways to cut and build frames like this, but I find that just mocking 'em up and marking 'em out is the fastest and most accurate way to do so. But lemme know down in the or just mocking up your frames. If you mock 'em up, start If you use a jig, start and if you start your I'll reply to you guys I know you're paying attention. So here I'm just attaching and I'm gonna use some 23 gauge brad nails to hold everything in place. And thanks to the magic of editing, that's done pretty quickly. So while the glue dries on to start organizing some And the first thing I a quick lumber rack for the corner. Now again, here I've got some so I'm just gonna use The first thing I did was of my Baltic birch, as from board to board, and I just set my dado stack up accordingly. From there, I'll plow a dado and then split my board and plow in three more. Now this isn't an exact I'm just going by what will fit my space. From there, I out five strips a curve on the end. This is just to ease Once I had it marked out, I over to my bandsaw Again here I'm not going for perfection, but I'm gonna try to stay as And once I have those cut out, with a little sandpaper. Now these curves aren't gonna be perfect, but again, they don't have to be because it's shop furniture. The next step was to apply and then pin those pieces in place. From there, I'll just for some eye hooks and pop those eye hooks onto the ends of the boards. This'll hold a couple lengths to keep my boards in place. The next step was to pre-drill for some mounting screws, and then I could mount the rack to the wall. This worked out really well for me for getting all these and getting them off the floor and collected in one place in the shop. Any boards that I felt were were numbered and placed on then added to a spreadsheet. This way I can track all the and I'm not tripping over scraps. And before we get back to the tool wall, lemme take a quick moment to say that if you guys are enjoying this video, please give it a like. It allows the video to and I greatly appreciate your support. So over the course of the next day or so, I played around with I didn't wanna set anything up and then instantly regret it later on, so I gave myself a little time to familiarize myself And once I was satisfied with that, I went ahead and started Now, some of the hangers are kind of unique to my own situation, but they should work for 90% So the first thing I want some of my larger squares, I'm gonna cut out some thin strips with a groove down the center. Again, my goal here is to and because I design and build furniture with clean modern lines, to feel the same way, which is something I can't really achieve So once I had my hangers ripped I went ahead and took so I could mark them out Then back over the table saw, I could use my miter Now this is one of the new adding to the shop I've been asking you guys or miter gauges for the and it was kind of in The best way I can describe this is that it's a combination and it's called the AutoScale And as I work with it, I'll continue to give my opinion about what I like and don't like about it, I can tell you that and it works really well for One of my biggest complaints was that it takes so long but this tool to set up is really quick and it has a lot of weight to But in no way is this a sponsored I just want you guys to know So with the bulk of the of my T-square hanger, I can and a shoulder plane to and make sure that the T I think this is one of the few instances where I actually used hand and that's because I so it was more utilitarian But I guess like Harry Styles, that idea works in more So with the hangers all cut down, I could go ahead and start Now here I'm gonna use that I orient everything as well as square to each other. It would really suck to and have everything work great to help keep things straight. Just remember to account for gravity. So with the large squares out of the way, I turned my attention to Now the carpenter square has in the center, so I decided and use it for the holder. Now though I do have a CNC, just to go ahead and mark because it only takes like two minutes. So once I had my outline traced out, I just took the work piece over to the band saw and cut it out. And then from there back over to the table with a little elbow inside the center of my triangle and I'll have a nice snug fit, which again is not the presentation I'd get with the French cleat. I think you're getting the picture. From there again, I'll use and 23 gauge brad nails 'cause if you're gonna get in the car, you may as well go to town. All right, so next it out of the hat and make And the first thing I'll do is just drive a hole in some scrap that's the exact diameter So in my case, that'll be 5/16 of an inch. And then from there I'll just to chamfer the hole on one This will allow for a smoother Next, I head over to the band saw and trim off just to the edge of my hole, which will expose a small gap Then from there, I'm that I want to use for my dowels to just over the outside and I'll repeat this by rotating and ripping off that next corner. From there, I clamp a to the top of my block where then chuck my stock into my drill and drill through the hole. If I keep everything relatively straight, it'll give me a straight consistent dowel through the other side. From there, I can trim and then add it to the tool wall. And while I wrap that up, let that if you're enjoying this I put out new videos with tips and tricks all the time, so subscribe so you So to mount the dowel, I'll then throw it into second gear and plunge a half inch From there, I'll use a little glue and a rubber mallet to Then like a scientist watching I called it a day. Back in the shop, I went ahead and cut out some smaller rectangles These will allow for a and then again, I'll use some brad nails and glue to hold 'em in place. From there, I took a few and rounded them over so that What I really like about this solution is that it keeps the bevel square nice and tight to the tool wall without adding any bulky hangers. I'd say this is a prime Next, I headed over to the table saw to trim out some triangles. I'll use these triangles to hang my larger and doing so keeps the and I think it works really This is honestly the only that I wasn't certain on the placement, and that's because I know that I have a couple of squares in mind so I tried to leave that so that I could expand later on. Now, when it came to I again decided just to The main difference here is I had to add a little groove so that it could inset into the block, but other than that, I could like I did the previous ones, which was starting to Like when my wife and I argue and I always get the last word in. That's usually &quot;I'm So my last set of hangers was in that most of these So the first thing I decided And here I'm gonna treat this kind of like I did the carpenter's square and then I'm gonna use the Now each set of dividers its own unique shape, so off your own to see what that shape is, but utilizing that negative space created for a secure hanging solution. Next on the list was the marking gauge, and since I utilize a wheel marking gauge, I'm gonna mount these the same way that I mounted my chisels, which was just to create a small hanger So once I had drilled a I could take the work and cut out a notch for the thumb screws. Then from there, I could head and cut it down to its final width. Once I had checked to confirm I could finally mount the And while I wrap that up, that if you guys are enjoying these videos and you'd like to support the channel, I'd like to invite you to join my Patreon. There you'll get discount an invite to the Discord server, your name on the shop behind the scenes footage, So if that sounds like be sure to check out the link down in the description and join today. And as always, to all you thank you so much for Your donations go directly towards making these videos, so thank you. So the last two pieces were maybe the most important, and that's gonna be my tape measures. And yes, I do keep because I'm decilingual. So I have these little that I'm gonna use to And I just needed to so they felt comfortable. So with those all flush trimmed, I could go ahead and start and standing back the wood filler. Now, to be completely honest with you, I don't know that this is but I figured since I'm gonna all the time, I better I know, I'm picking with this shop furniture thing. From there, I could a few holes for mounting And with everything cleaned up, I could move on to the finish. Now, for the finish on this piece, I'm just gonna use some stuff that I have laying around in the shop, which is just gonna be some Danish oil. I've used this on a couple of and I like the way it looks overall and it holds up fairly well. But like I've said in the past, I think this is a good If there's some finish technique that you haven't done I'd say shop furniture The next step was to use my as a support and mount it to the wall. From there, I could start and again, thanks to the magic of editing, they just kind of appear. So now that all the there's only one thing left to do. Let's cue those glamour shots. (upbeat music) And there we have it, a tool wall any craftsman would be proud of. Everything's organized, in place, and where it's supposed to be, which I, for one, love about a workshop and this type of organization allows me to work more freely in my shop and ensures all my when I need them, which let's be honest, is half the battle when you're in the midst of a project frenzy. And let's not forget about This is gonna make finding parts in the shop a heck of a lot easier, and it also has the added benefit of increasing the safety in the shop. You know, less tripping hazards and all. And I think probably the best part about this whole experience is that it just really cleans up the entire look of the shop. Again, I strive to make reflect the type of work so if I feel good about then I'll feel good about the work. So if you enjoyed this build and you wanna see more like it, check out this video over here next, subscribe so you don't miss the next one, and as always, I knew this woodwork and I'll see you next time. (upbeat music)