I don't know if this is allowed Where is the boy? &quot;I seek refuge from the Evil of what He has created.&quot; Today I arrived in the land They seek help from demons In the largest gathering Africa. The most dangerous magic on earth This is the child they will bury. ...which requires burying children, and then bringing them back They tricked us. ...here in West Africa, This is the country of Benin. &quot;But the magician will not succeed, So, what's the truth about black magic When we entered the market we realized that filming and the people were very hostile So we started filming with a phone, First, we had to pass through to understand the rituals This is the voodoo market, everything here is used Feathers, small snakes, dog skulls. Here's a snake skull. You see dead animals around you What's this? This is a horse's head. The smell is absolutely foul. Where I'm standing, there's human hair, pigeons, rats, hyenas, anything you can imagine. They say they use voodoo as a medicine. To learn more about the people of Benin and the slavery in this country we need to visit a village near Cotonou. It's an entire town Good morning. The residents of a village escaped slavery and built a floating village, You can only reach a home Imagine what it would be like This country is different from Nigeria, When they fled, they settled there, They've been there for 300 years, We're heading to the supermarket. This is the first thing you do. Around 35,000 people It has all the infrastructure. Some people are going to the school, and some visiting relatives they live normally as a community. You can send your kid People sell on boats, Some are heading to weddings, They even have a church here. They've been living here for generations. Look! Imagine buying land on a lake. &quot;Where's your land?&quot; &quot;It's in the lake.&quot; This is their ambulance, Oh, God. The recovery room. Let's check out this nearby supermarket. These are shops. There's a cafe here. We're downtown now. These people are selling water. We're buying some bananas now. You can sleep here for an entire day. This is the toilet. They say it drains directly You can fish from here. The religions in Benin are as follows, 27% Muslims, and the rest follow Voodoo This area was known as the &quot;Slave Coast&quot; in the early 17th century due to the widespread Its official language is French. It was colonized by France making it different France used to hold the national reserves The French treasury in profits and revenues annually according to a report from Al Jazeera. Today, Benin is one and the world. Now, we're going to check out We got permission after paying a large sum to enter this house We drove for two hours to a village where they will show us the traditions and how Voodoo is practiced here. They're some unusual rituals. When I entered, I saw them cooking a dog, They're burning a dog It's for Voodoo. It's for Voodoo rituals. At that point, I still had no idea In the name of God. He killed the chicken He's pouring large amounts of alcohol. What exactly is going on? They went outside to continue the rituals. The intensity keeps building up, and the drumming gets louder. I've never seen anything like this before. They attack anyone who tries to escape. They catch anyone running from the magic. They pin them down, then they all enter this abandoned house. This is the abandoned house, they go in and come out I managed to film them with the drone They went inside to hide and then performed some strange movement. The sun is about to set. However, this is just the beginning Now, it's time for the festival. There are two sides to the festival, this area, where the tourists are, but first, we're heading to the village where there are no rules or restrictions. The event takes place outside the city, They say this haystack is empty, We'll try to uncover the truth. It's impossible that no one is inside. Impossible! This haystack can talk. Raise your hand if you're buying this. Look at the smoke coming out from inside. If there's someone in there, Now it's time to burn and bury the child. They're going to bury him They chose this child randomly This is the pit. And here's the crowd. Our audience. Our dear audience. He's telling them what to do. They tied him up so tightly. Even if this is acting, Watch this scene Look at what he's going to do next. He passed over him. It took him only a few seconds. Did he manage to take the kid I don't know. Let's see. But that was the only moment But how, in just a few seconds? No way! They set him on fire! Oh, my God! They're mad! Hey! I apologize for the unclear footage here because the lens focus was a bit messy. Even their voodoo takes money. Come here, where are you going? The boy came out from under the table! On the other side, in the city center, hundreds of tourists gather in a large square I tried to figure out I flew the drone and zoomed in when he stood here, and they lit the fire inside Then they uncovered it to everyone and then they touched it, Where did he hide? Is there a pocket It could be a little boy So, I went back to the village It's time to reveal the truth now. I've figured out the trick. Tell me your opinion. They say she's the only one It's empty now. Look, he's collecting tips. They'll put it back now. Here's the trick, his partner where there are two people inside, then one of them quickly moves and starts moving. Subscribe to the channel. They're tricking us, I saw his foot. Goodbye, Benin! Leave a like and subscribe to the channel!