&quot;Shrimp macaroni gratin&quot;. What comes to mind when you think of a coffee shop menu? . Today I made shrimp macaroni gratin at my husband's request. I dared to request something other than the coffee shop standard Neapolitan or pancakes. First, grill the shrimp that has been prepared and drained. Season with salt and pepper, then transfer to a plate. Next, fry the garlic in a large amount of butter (about 20g). When fragrant, add onions and fry until softened. It's a white sauce so be careful not to burn it. 2 tablespoons of soft flour (I didn't have any, so I substituted 3 tablespoons of strong flour). Stir-fry until there are no lumps. Combine about 400cc of soy milk in several batches. Adjust the taste with European-style soup stock, salt, and pepper, then add the shrimp from earlier and the boiled macaroni and mix. Place in a heatproof dish and sprinkle cheese on top. Bake in a preheated oven at 200 degrees until golden brown. Russell Hobbs coffee maker has become my morning companion. We will introduce a variety of ways to use it, such as changing the strength of hot coffee, making a latte with cold brew or foamed milk, and making coffee that is essential for coffee shop menus. Today I have regular hot coffee. I love hand-drip coffee, but on a busy morning, I'm really happy to be able to brew delicious coffee with the push of a button. I also appreciate that it keeps it warm for 40 minutes after brewing. I will introduce this pilaf that I made during practice on Day 4 :). The delicious baked gratin is completed by sprinkling with parsley. &quot;Egg Sandwich&quot;. Today is the classic egg sandwich. There are many kinds of egg sandwiches, but the one I'm going to make today is a fluffy and creamy egg sandwich. Apparently, if you separate the yolks and whites of boiled eggs, you can enjoy the texture of both. I wanted to try this 3 yolks, 1/2 teaspoon of cane sugar, a pinch of salt, 2 tablespoons of mayonnaise, 1 tablespoon of soy milk. Season as you like :). Mix the yolks until smooth. On the other hand, it seems best to coarsely chop the white meat to create a different texture. Adjust the seasoning and the egg filling is complete. Mix a little mustard with the butter you spread on the bread. Spread mustard butter on a thin slice of bread and spread the egg filling so that there is a little mound in the center. It's a good idea to keep it from drying out with a cloth or plastic wrap, and let it blend in a little. I like the ears of bread, so I just cut them so they line up. Since I'm going to make a latte today, I use the concentrate shot setting to extract the strongest coffee possible. The built-in milk frother makes it easy to froth milk. Just by changing the recipe a little, you can get closer to the taste of the restaurant! . It was an interesting discovery :). Let's make it like this from next time too &quot;Bacon French Toast&quot;. Make egg mixture for French toast for one person. 1 egg, 100 cc of soy milk, 1 tablespoon of cane sugar, 1/3 vanilla bean. Remove the seeds from the vanilla beans and add the pods to the liquid. Revitalize unused brown rice bread by making French toast. I cut it into thick pieces, but since they were mini size, I was able to make 2 pieces. Today, I'm going to make French toast by baking it in the oven. Bake in an oven preheated to 200 degrees for about 20 minutes. (Also include the empty skillet). With about 10 minutes left, add the bacon to the empty skillet. A little butter on top of the bread. If you want crispy bacon, you can add it in from the beginning. For sweet French toast, try coffee on a strong setting. The order of concentration is regular - strong - concentrated shot. Bacon French toast with plenty of honey. The sweet and salty taste of happiness French toast baked in the oven is crispy on the outside and fluffy on the inside :). &quot;pilaf&quot;. Pilaf appeared briefly on Day 1. Actually, it was my first time making one, so I was making a prototype. Introducing a pilaf that was unexpectedly easy and very popular. I cut all the ingredients into small pieces. Once the butter is melted, stir-fry the ingredients. Colorful carrots and green peppers. And leftover bacon from yesterday. When the ingredients are stir-fried, add washed and drained rice (2 cups) and stir-fry. When the rice becomes a little translucent, add 400cc of water and European-style stock. Once it boils, simmer for 1 to 2 minutes, then cover and cook on low heat for 15 minutes. After 15 minutes, turn off the heat and let it steep for 10 minutes. I added a little extra butter at the end :). The pilaf has a slightly nostalgic feel, like something you would find in an old-fashioned coffee shop :). It was a warm day, so I had iced coffee for the first time in a while. I prepared it the day before. Place the powder in the included filter and press the cold brew button. Leave it in the fridge for 6-12 hours and it's done. The pilaf was enjoyed more than I expected, so I think it will become a part of my family's dining table from now on :). &quot;Anko Butter Hot Sandwich&quot;. Lastly, my favorite, red bean paste butter toast. Today, I used commercially available red bean paste. When making a hot sandwich with red bean paste butter, instead of sandwiching the sandwich with butter, grill it with butter. (Butter is salted). Cook slowly over low heat to avoid burning. Swirl it around to make sure the butter is spread evenly. Don't forget to add a little more butter when you flip it again :). Press the four sides tightly so that the bread sticks together. A coffee maker that allows you to choose the function that suits your mood at the time. You can choose not only the strength but also the amount to extract, so you can pour it directly into a cup or tumbler. It's so easy that it has become an essential part of my day :). Thank you for watching until the end this week.