Hi everyone it's kunihiro thank you for coming how to make tempura step by step. So let's begin. Okay so first I want to show you I have 100 grams of cake flour, 180 milliliters of things I want you to remember when making tempura is gluten. Gluten produces when the protein more gluten in your tempura butter the less So, to achieve light and crispy tempura you which is cake flour. And the second important cold when mixing because warmer temperatures the ingredients in the fridge first including the we'll prepare all the other ingredients first Today I'm using eggplant, carrot, broccoli, and shrimp. When making tempura, I recommend Watery vegetables such as cucumber and tomato please avoid them. And the best size for the need anything bigger than that. Now, let's cut This one is kind of hard so The thickness of each slice is about 5 millimeters if you cut it thinner than that, you won't taste tempura coating will burn before kabocha The next one is carrot you don't need to it first. Cut it diagonally. The thickness is The next one is broccoli. Since I will make if the broccoli is too big, it will touch the will cut it in half and make it smaller. First please cut off the stem turn it and make four shallow cuts at the center When making those cuts, please You only need to rotate the mushroom Shiso leaf is very simple you That's it. Next, I'll show Please cut off the top. Then split it in half. Then make a few cuts through But leave the edge connected. Then at the and make a few more cuts again, but again Now press it gently with your Those cuts will not only make eggplant look So one two three and cut all the Okay, we are done with all the The first thing we do is take And next, remove this spiky shell above the tail. This part contains some water. the water will pop and oil will splatter when And once you finish removing make a shallow incision on the back Once it's open, you should see a vein in the don't see the vein at this point, don't cut any Okay, this one has a vein. So please Then the next thing we do is cut off the tip of After cutting, the tail will look and make your shrimp tempura look more beautiful. Then, open up the tail and scrape excess water and Once again, if you skip this part, the when deep-frying. So please don't skip beautiful red color will come out once deep-fried. And once you finish cleaning the tail, please vein and dirt on the tail. Then dry the If you don't dry them well at this point, Instead, it will become soggy. Excess moisture Next, please put 5-6 shallow incisions Please don't cut too deep. Only Next, place the shrimp on the belly side down and press it down against the cutting board I'm doing this to prevent the shrimps And shrimp is ready. This is the final form This time, please listen to the And go over one more time and make sure that's it. Next, i'm going to show you So to make tempura sauce, you need 100 milliliters and 400 milliliters of dashi. Okay so first And bring it to a boil. And once it and let it simmer for 2 more minutes so that and 2 minutes later, turn ready. I'm going to heat it again Next, I'll prepare some grated daikon radish Please transfer the grated And squeeze the juice out gently. Don't squeeze So after squeezing, the grated daikon will Next, I'm going to coat all the ingredients flour on a tray. Then put the ingredients Then dust off the excess flour. That's it. Coating with flour will help Shitake mushrooms and broccolis have uneven flour very well. Otherwise, the excess flour And don't forget to fan out the And shiso leaf needs coating only on the backside. And when you do shrimp, please coat only the So after coating with flour, Now that we have finished preparing let's make tempura batter. The first thing a strainer. By doing this, the cake flour Next, put the egg into the water Then please add the cake flour into A very important point when mixing If you mix it too much more gluten will So I'm not really mixing it it's more like After mixing, your tempura batter should look like but that's totally fine. This is the consistency let's start heating oil. So fill a up to 3 centimeters and Alright, so this is the setup when I make tempura. so I place the cooling rack on the left of the the tempura on the rack. And I place my sieve from the oil so that I can keep the oil clean. The oil is right in the middle. And I place the the oil because I don't want my tempura batter next to the tempura batter. So I can just grab And I keep a clean towel here to wipe my And the chopsticks are here. I use If you don't have chopsticks, a tong is fine too. Okay, first let's check the temperature of the oil so you need to drop a little bit of The tempura batter sank to the bottom That is about 150 to 160 degrees It's after 30 seconds. Let me try one more This time the tempura batter sank to That is about 160 to 170 degrees Celsius and it's especially when making tempura Okay so let me start with kabocha squash. So dip And if they stick to each other like this, the batter gets hard. If you wait too long, And don't forget to recheck the temperature at went down a lot, you need to turn up the the temperature is not gonna drop drastically So when I make tempura at home I always cook the oil more easily. I always cook tempura between and remove tempura bits Flip them over every minute otherwise the it cooks completely. Recheck the temperature and After deep frying them for about 3 minutes, and you'll see fewer bubbles around the ready. So please take it out, shake At this time please do not stack please clean up the oil. Check the temperature and Okay, the next one is carrots. So dip them The cooking time for this one So just like a Kabocha squash, all you check and maintain the temperature sometimes, and keep the oil clean until Finally, shake off the excess And when you deep fry shiitake mushrooms, put put them in the oil upside down, the batter on the 30 to 40 seconds later when the batter on After that, flip them over every three minutes. Please don't forget to clean The next one is eggplant. Please fan batter like this and gently put it into And if you want to give additional please apply the batter like this. It And when the coating on the top sets Since eggplant is relatively easy to get burnt, I recommend flipping them over every 40 seconds. And when deep frying broccolis shake off the excess batter a little, and put One minute later flip them over but please don't because florets get burnt very quickly. So 20 to 30 seconds later, and leave them like this for another one minute flip them one more time and deep fry for 20 20 seconds later flip them back The total deep-frying time is if you want to leave a little crunchiness in And when you deep fry shiso leaf, get the And put it into the oil with the And after 30 seconds, flip them once Then flip them back and take them out of the oil. the cooking time for shiso leaf is only 40 leaf will lose its color so please be careful. The suitable oil temperature for deep at this temperature range tempura batter Now, take one piece of shrimp, make sure to and gently put it in the oil And as soon as the shrimp dip your fingers in the batter and drizzle By doing this you can create extra crispy shrimp only one minute to one minute and a half, please the shrimp will be overcooked before I recommend deep frying one shrimp at a Okay, this is good. Shrimp tempura is ready. After deep frying everything, please and once the oil cools down you can If you want to keep the tempura bits, and remove the excess oil. and store them in the freezer. I use them Alright, so this is all the tempura I made. minutes but tempura is best eaten when it's super ingredient one more time for 10 to 20 seconds believe that is the best way to enjoy tempura I always make it look three-dimensional. So and kabocha squash first and lean the rest And at the end, put some grated daikon radish next Reheat the tempura sauce and pour it Alright, so that's it for today. I hope So if you did, please hit the like Thank you so much for watching and I you