In this video, we're going to learn how you might be wondering, what is a custom imagine you have a super smart robot friend who like a standard GPT model. But maybe you want your just one specific thing like, I don't know, baking about baking cookies until it becomes an expert. That's basically a custom GPT. And today, we'll we get started. Making a custom GPT requires a as you have that, you'll be able to follow create your very own custom GPT, head to the below, and I've also included a link in the you'll see the familiar chat interface of ChatGPT. on the left-hand side in the sidebar, you'll I will be saying GPT a lot in this video. collection of all of the different custom GPTs. make it available to everyone else. And we'll we'll look at a few examples of GPTs that Consensus. And this is a GPT that's been trained in theory, when you ask it questions, you we see another one called the Code Copilot, meaning that if you're programming something, If we look down just a little bit more, there's is where you can provide data to the GPT, and base its responses on the data that you've they focus on a specific task, which again, To add your very own GPT, in the top button that says Create. This now opens up custom GPT. Over on the left-hand side, we have and this opens up a conversational interface You can also jump into Configure. And here you different fields to construct your AI assistant. the other. You could start in one and then tweak you could use a combination of both. I would So up on top, I'll click on Create. Down below, Hi. I'll help you build a new GPT. Great. That's examples of different prompts that I could type What would you like to make? Well, I'm glad we have a text field where we can start I would like to make a new GPT that helps people cookies. Right over here, let's send that to the It says, Great. How about we name this GPT sound good to you or do you have another name I'll type in that sounds great. And let's comes back with a profile picture for my custom I really had in mind that it would be some type helper. I was thinking something like Cookie a trademark on it. And I don't want to run into the text field, let's say, can you make a Cookie make a cute and fun mascot for this custom GPT. Builder comes back with. And look at that, creature that is, but it does look like it Over on the right-hand side, we can see a Here we see the profile picture and we also see really informs people what it does. Over here, I how do you like this one? You know, I think it send that back. Here it looks like the GPT Builder tasks should it be able to help with or is there with all of these different questions, it's just to make this custom GPT useful. Now you could be pretty thorough. Or you could simply type GPT Builder. Some good things to touch on, want it to speak with. What task it's assisting Here I'll type in a prompt. I want you to be So that's some information on the tone that I to people. You represent a cookie company, something on the language, please keep language task of helping people with cookie recipes and please bring the conversation back to baking. Ask I'll send this to the GPT Builder and let's our custom GPT is now all set up to help us with &quot;Why not give it a try over in the preview we went through and we answered all these our custom GPT to work, don't feel like you can type in additional information and you Before we test it out, up on top, let's click into you can see all the different settings related to lot of this. Here's our furry friend who's going cookie helper. You'll notice a lot of this because these two different tabs work together you can click on the profile picture. Maybe you'd You can also use something called Dalle, which image. And that's what we initially used to no need to change it. Right here you'll see the modify it if you'd like. Down below, we see a And then we see all the different instructions. interface under create, and as we responded to was putting together and constructing these could also go through and you can modify these you're locked in. Or maybe as you're interacting it's not providing the information you want want it to be formatted. You can modify all of you'll also see some conversation starters. And remove, or you could add additional ones or you Over on the right-hand side, let's now test out down below in the text field, I'll type in &quot;I cookies.&quot; And here, let's send that to the cookie for chocolate chip cookies. And looking at this, instructions. I might have to make some chocolate Now, over on the left-hand side, we also let's try throwing a curveball to this AI to see &quot;What's the weather in Seattle?&quot; And let's see how humor. I'm here to keep our conversation sweet guidance of avoiding certain topics and it steered like it's following the instructions. Now let's about. Here at the Kevin Cookie Company, we have Let me ask the AI to see if it knows how to bake it looks like the cookie helper has not heard but I'm not familiar with that specific knowledge and data available on the internet, it won't be able to provide you with an answer. GPT. Over on the left-hand side, there's a section additional files to this GPT as reference. Right on my desktop, I have a recipe for &quot;Clippy's that will now upload it to the GPT. So now it try that question again. How do I bake &quot;Clippy's And look at that. The GPT now knows all about provides all the different steps and all of the pull together those cookies. And the reason why is many different files into your custom GPT and information that you provide. It is so powerful. you're a student in school. You could build a taking and imagine that you upload the textbook questions against your textbook. It is so powerful Looking over at the right-hand side of the for this response. I like when it provides all of the different steps. So, I think we need to make Over on the left-hand side, let's go up to all of bottom, let's add some additional information. I'll provide it with an example. Start with the now provided this information and over on the us with the recipe and instructions for making how do I bake Clippy's Scrumptious Cookies and here it starts by providing all the different this format a lot better. One thing that you'll as you preview it, you may not be completely then you could go over to the left-hand side, you instructions and then type in another prompt and you're expecting and you'll find that as you're back and forth until you're completely satisfied left-hand side in configure, let's now take a available down here under capabilities. First up, the left-hand side, I can toggle it off or here I on, this GPT has access to all the different turn it off, it'll limit what's available and just my recipe. Next up, we also have something about this a little bit earlier, but this allows we're not taking advantage of this even though back to the instructions and it might be a nice we also generate an image showing the cookie to go let's add that to the instructions. Over out and remember, this is part of that iterative I'll type in how do I bake Clippy's Scrumptious but let's see if we get an image back with and look at that. Now not only do I get all but here I get a photo of what they should look but it gives you a really good feel of how these the left-hand side and we also have a few more we also have something called the code interpreter math, and to also analyze data, and that could I don't have a need for this, so I'll leave it actions and we can create a new action. I'll click services and their APIs and you're using your know that sounds like a lot, so what do I mean by available. You have APIs that can get the weather, organization has its own set of APIs. You can now using conversation via your GPT. It makes data so right up on top, you can indicate whether you you can set it to none if no authentication is API. Here you could type in that key and currently or here you could also use OAuth as another option For this, I'll use the API key. Now, one thing of free APIs available that you can use and I'll click on save. Over on the left-hand side, and if you click on this dropdown, you can see a a pet store, and you also have a blank template. interact with the API and what type of data type in a schema for the Kevin Cookie Company. specified location and then it'll provide back like. If I scroll down a little bit more, there's stores and here we see the path and then I could so it's publicly available, you'll also need to on the right-hand side. Over on the right-hand stores in Seattle, Washington and then let's send And look at that, it captured or took schema which it then sent to the API. my custom GPT converted that into text that I Over on the left-hand side, let's now go Back on the configure page, at the very bottom, we Although it says settings, there's currently only data in your GPT to improve our models. Basically, to share that data back with OpenAI or do you you could toggle that off if you want to keep it's your call and how secure you want your data that. Next, I want to publish my GPT. In the top says create. I think this is looking good now, opens up a prompt and you can decide who you want make it available only to you. Here you could also says anyone with the link, it's really anyone with it. If you don't have a subscription to ChatGPT, with this custom GPT. Down at the bottom, you also Earlier when we clicked on Explore GPTs, we saw make yours available there as well. But for now, I'll make sure to tick that and down below, I'll published. Here, I'll close out of this and let's I now have a new GPT helper called the Cookie directly into my new custom GPT. Down below, I interact down below. And it uses all of the you'd like to go back and edit your GPT, over on the top right-hand corner, you'll see the option you'll see a list of all the different GPTs that I could click on the three dots if I'd like to this. I'm not going to delete it. And here I could that brings us back into the editing interface. the incredible power of custom GPTs. Now, imagine every single textbook in every single class that that textbook. Or imagine at work, you get an to extract information from that invoice and then your GPT will know exactly what to do without Essentially, if you find yourself doing the same time by publishing your own custom GPT. You don't instructed to do. Let me know in the comments if they do. To watch more videos like this one, you don't even have to write your own