- AirPods Pro for 250 bucks? No way! (laughs) Welcome to Crazy where I got prices on I'd have to be crazy to sell 'em. AirPods 2? (laughs) Their newfangled AirPods 3? (laughs) All genuine, 100% real. Guys, just kidding. These are all fake, super fake. But are they real enough into thinking they're real? Real like our sponsor. This video is sponsored by GlassWire. Instantly see who or what on GlassWire's network monitoring graph. Plus see what your PC may Use code Linus and get 25% off (bright music) After covering knockoff AirPods Max, we received a package &quot;Dear LTT, those old and are like buying a Dell prebuilt They sent us two clones that they claim are as AirPods Pro at $55 and AirPods 2 at $35. And something they didn't AirPods 3 clones at $42. To see if these can pass as to our resident Apple - [Adam] Without opening the box, do these look legit to you? - You know what, I have to say no, because I reviewed these and I remembered how Oh yeah, this is totally real. Yeah. Yeah, that's a dead giveaway. - [Adam] What's the giveaway? - Probably the CSA logo and we're in Canada and they - [Adam] There is a difference - Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's like, this is like So I'm opening these up. You can tell the difference already, but just with the way the light, the indicator light is Well, I guess it really depends on whether or not you've seen a real pair. If you've seen a real pair, yeah, you'd be able to tell immediately, particularly with the way the mesh is. If it was just based off You probably, you might be like, &quot;Oh yeah, that looks pretty convincing&quot;. But that's the thing with these knockoffs is you start questioning yourself and you start questioning reality. Yeah, if you wanted to just out on the street, no - But how do they sound? To test, we got a few people and ran an experiment. - My name is Ethan. - I'm Lloyd. - Chase. - I'm Sarah. - I write for Channel Super Fun. - I've been working on like a lot of like really cool T-shirts. - I'm supposed to be an event coordinator. - I am a graphic designer. Go to lttstore if you're some of the projects - [Riley] Our subjects will now listen to each pair of headphones and will choose which pair of AirPods they think sounded better. They'll also tell us how confident they are in their decision with a value from one to five, with one being a wild guess and five being complete certainty. Ooh yeah - My instant reaction is just, I can't hear the outside world more and I do like that for if Oh, it feels like my ears are plugged. - It's like just richer and fuller. - Definitely the noise canceling as soon as you put them in, which is cool. - I don't know about these. With my Pros that I have, usually when I hear the white it goes away, but for some reason I can the white noise. - If I can't tell the then I spent way too much I could have just bought the old ones. - [Adam] Here's your - It's kind of quieter, but I don't know if it's - I would say the bass is definitely much more over-prominent. - I couldn't really tell a Other than they were just I could definitely tell I don't know if they, I would say they don't - These sound terrible. - [Adam] Really? - They have like almost a - I pick the first one. - Based solely on the sound, I thought it sounded - The first one, and I'm five, I'm like on a scale of - [Adam] Okay. - I'm five. - I would say like a one on that one. - Two. - I am, yeah, one out of five confidence. Not very confident, but - Wow, unsurprisingly, as the better pair. But none of our subjects were with two of them saying The sole outlier was Sarah, who was very certain the but her confidence rating by some errors encountered during testing. - [Adam] Apparently it's disconnected. - Uh-oh. Do you need them back? Hmm, you don't usually have Ooh yeah - They sound the same. I They sound maybe a bit less bassy, but oh nah, they're the same. I couldn't tell you. - They're very light. I would I definitely can hear a - There's a little bit less I would say that I don't really notice much of a difference at this time. - [Adam] This is the right - All right. - I don't know if it's just but so far the fit is like I would enjoy this, I would. - The sound from this I feel like this one is not - So far, the only was just like a ton of bass. I don't mind a ton of bass, but I don't usually have it cranked. So for me, when there's a lot it's a little jarring sometimes. - They sound good. Like, yeah. I feel like I'm at a concert, - It's actually better than My AirPod Pros. - I would say I'm very certain that I like the second one better. - The confidence levels are terrible. I'd say two out of five from confidence. - I'd be like a two, maybe. - Five out of five. - I'd say my confidence - Wow, a clear winner. The $35 knockoffs actually That's pretty crazy. To my ears, they have a that the real AirPods lack, but it comes at the cost of precision, with kick drums sounding Other than that, the tuning is virtually Now we have one more device to test, but in the seller's defense, they didn't intend for these to be sent along with the others. And, well, the results Ooh yeah - They sound pretty average. Do you wanna turn it up like all the way? Okay, it's way too loud. - These ones don't fit - I'm running out of things to say. These are just the normal headphones. I still enjoy them and still don't care. Oh God. - [Adam] We'll swap them out. - All right. - I would say I notice even right away. Part of it is probably the way that it doesn't fit in the ear quite as well as the other ones. And it sounded a little than the other four pairs. - I don't know if you're pausing it, but it keeps connecting in and - I heard a little static, like beeping. Like (trills) I dunno how to describe it, but sounds like these got like sat on. - Personally, I like the first one better. I would say five. - 3.5. - I'd be like, that's like - 100% I would pick the other because they don't have Also the left ear played I am five out of five confident that I like the other headphones better. - Cool. - Big oof. The FakePods 3 did terribly. Every single test subject agreed with relatively high confidence that the replicas were much worse. They had some electrical noise. We couldn't get them to only to Android devices. Also, we couldn't get our case to charge via cable or MagSafe, so Thanks for producing actual junk, Jenny. I hope no one actually wastes And don't waste money just because the joysticks are drifting. We're gonna be fixing a for an upcoming video. So get subscribed so you don't miss it. Now those first two pairs, If imitation is the then Apple should be very, very flattered. They sound good, they look First, let's look at the feature parody. Magic Pairing worked for all the clones. Battery life was acceptable, Recharge time was fine. Wireless charging worked except for the AirPods 3, But battery reporting was They would like just die suddenly while reporting 18% battery life. Huh? The case battery life on but on the Fake 2s, the case seemed to constantly be draining and we weren't sure why. Maybe a reporting error due The active noise canceling when listening to music was pretty good, but without music there was a slight hiss and a not so slight bass rumbling that was literally headache inducing. As for the Find My network, while all the devices you can't make the headphones chirp or use any of the other Find My features. Spatial audio and MagSafe? Nope. Touch controls on the They basically don't work. The FakePods Pro? You need to squeeze the stem so firmly, you will almost certainly Plus all the fakes tended to suddenly stop and require a soft reset. And here's the real fun part, if you wanna update the you need to have an Android device, download an app from the Play Store, use that to sideload an open it in the app, and then That's if these companies even bother to release updated It's not fun. But on the plus side, the app has an EQ, unless you turn on A and C on so you can make this happen. Oh, it's beautiful. Even though these products may have competitive audio FakePods 2 are a full Benjamin cheaper and the Fakepods Pro we still aren't going to recommend them or even tell you where to get them. I mean, you can probably figure it out using the info in this video but we don't feel comfortable supporting the reptronics industry with its consumer hostility If large companies like Apple and Samsung struggle to suss out in their supply chains, well, imagine what these could be doing. And look at the FakePods 3, you could just end up with Instead, we'd recommend spending that cash on some high quality, budget, that we will have listed But people don't want The question is why do that entire communities have emerged specifically Well, even though audiophiles may not care what their tech is fashion now. And like luxury clothing brands, Apple has gone to great lengths to make their products feel Green bubbles versus blue bubbles. Lock-in features like The entire Apple ecosystem serves as a purposeful class divide. If you aren't wealthy enough to pay the entry price to join that club, well, you're stuck with the Android plebs and their weak-ass open standards and basic text messaging, pah! But a pair of knockoffs that tricks others into thinking you are part of those chosen elite. So don't be tricked and don't buy these. But do check out our sponsor. Thanks to Squarespace for Is making a website a monumentally Well, it doesn't have to be. Use Squarespace and you'll in a matter of hours, maybe They have award-winning templates that will help make instead of it looking If you're interested in they have built-in tools to help you find out and what you're doing wrong. Our own Linus Media Group website was built quickly using Squarespace. So head to squarespace.com/LTT and you can get 10% off today. Hey, thanks for watching guys. If you liked this video, we did on the fake AirPods Max headphones. What a saga this has been.