Thanks to YouGov for sponsoring this video. I'm Mr. Beat of his free time painting houses attempted history to attempt to assassinate the President This dude's name was Richard Lawrence, and called schizophrenia. He often would wander around having meaningless On the morning of Friday, January 30, 1835, hand, laughing hysterically. Then, all of sudden, Lawrence jumped up and He went to the U.S. Capitol...to the funeral named Warren Davis. He went there to shoot the President. At the end of the funeral, he found a space for the President to pass. Finally, the President came, and as he walked at the President' s back. The first bullet misfired. He quickly attempted another shot with his By this time, the 67-year old President had with his walking cane. Davy Crocket, who was a U.S. Representative just over a year after this event at the Battle The President kept trying to beat Lawrence That President was Andrew Jackson. (turns) The likelihood of both pistols misfiring, (turns) Here's the story of one of the luckiest, presidents in American History. But first, I'm gonna tell you about YouGov. YouGov is my favorite way to take surveys I originally started using it when I was stuck I think the DMV or something, but it's just get rewarded for it. Often, I take YouGov surveys on the toilet. That reminds me...I probably need to clean Anyway, YouGov is free to join and so easy It's can be an easy side hustle. Tap my link to take surveys and earn cash Thanks to YouGov for sponsoring this video. -Raised on the Frontier- Andrew Jackson was born in the Waxhaws, a South Carolina and southern North Carolina...boy Andrew's parents, Elizabeth and Andrew Jackson, Pennsylvania to the Carolinas two years prior. Uh yeah...they may have squatted on land when Sadly, though, Andrew never knew his dad, before he was born. Andrew was the youngest of three children, After the death of their father, Elizabeth Crawford, and her husband and family. Elizabeth not only raised Andrew and his brothers, Jane's eight children. To Andrew, his mother was kind of a superhero. Andrew's family were members of the Presbyterian Elizabeth wanted Andrew to be a minister and Latin and Greek. However, she quickly realized he wasn't and general rebelliousness. And when I say Elizabeth "scrounged" up money. The family was poor. As you might have assumed, Andrew often got He often LOST fights, but always got right Andrew didn't get much formal schooling. He was never really that good at writing or After the American War of Independence broke of the rebels, aka the "Patriots." ESPECIALLY after some Tories, aka the "Loyalists" residents there, burning down farms. After the Battle of Stono Ferry on June 20, stroke. The next year, at the age of just 13, Andrew riding with the rebels, mostly as scouts but On April 10, 1781, British soldiers took over everything of value the family had. While there, they also captured Andrew and After a British officer demanded that Andrew so the officer struck him on the head and Supposedly, Andrew dared the officer to strike The officer didn't, but the sword had already Andrew would have scars on his left hand and After this, British soldiers took Andrew and they both contracted smallpox. Keith: He's the only U.S. President ever Elizabeth made the journey to rescue them. She worked out a deal to get her boys released. Sadly, by that time, the boys were extremely They barely made the journey home, with Andrew way. Robert died two days after they got home. However, as you probably already knew by this due to Elizabeth nursing him back to health. Shortly after this, Elizabeth left Andrew the Patriot war effort by nursing sick and While there, she got cholera and died shortly Before his 15th birthday, Andrew Jackson had Due to his experiences during the American British or anything even remotely associated -A wild young man- Not only was Andrew an orphan, he was also He lived with his uncle for a while, but soon his grandpa had died. His grandpa left Andrew a small inheritance, However, while there he immediately spent He returned to the Waxhaws and went back to to elementary school-aged kids. Well, he didn't like being a teacher so wanted to head west to become a lawyer. Now, in 1784, it was really freaking easy on the frontier. Jackson studied to become one in Salisbury, While there, he gained a reputation as a wild into a lot of fights, and, even though it POWDERED WIG DAD GOMIT. One time he threw a bunch of random furniture That must have been a really crazy party. After Jackson officially became a lawyer in clients and making money. However, that would soon change when his friend west of the Appalachians, in a tiny frontier Back then, Nashville was part of western North Tennessee. On the way there, Jackson stayed in the town This is where he got into his first duel, Jackson challenged him to a duel after Avery The duel ended with both men firing their They shook hands and became friends afterward. It was also in Jonesborough that Jackson got his age. Ugh. That said, him getting the slave happened... kind of...ACCIDENTALLY.... You see, Jackson had provided legal services didn't have enough cash to pay him, so he Jackson also narrowly escaped being attacked Future American Indian attacks in Tennessee shaped Jackson's perception of American Andrew moved out here to Nashville in 1788, At the time, Nashville only had like a couple name for himself in town, especially after Founding Father Dude and one of the most powerful Jackson gained a reputation as a confident in the eyes when he talked to you...someone a calm and gentle demeanor- unless you made In those early months in Nashville, he stayed Donelson. Her husband, the late John Donelson, had helped While there, Andrew met her daughter Rachel Rachel Robards was married to Lewis Robards, and by 1789 the two had separated. Around that time, Andrew and Rachel fell in though Rachel was still technically married The two even went off to Natchez, Mississippi Lewis found out all this and talked trash challenged Lewis to a duel. Lewis refused and moved to Kentucky. Robards only later finally granted a divorce Meanwhile, William Blount, by now the Governor Jackson to be Attorney of the Mero District. Jackson also still took on other clients, He made enough money where he started buying TENS OF THOUSANDS of acres of land, to be Ok ok ok...most of that land was bought on Still, the Jacksons gained a lot of wealth Oh, uh, yeah they had another, absolutely Slaves. Freaking slaves. In 1796, Andrew and Rachel got two more slaves dad's estate. For the rest of the 1790s, they bought 12 Jackson never said slavery was good. But he never said it was bad, either. He kind of just went with the times and apparently -Unlikely politician- Also in 1796? A pivotal moment in which Jackson was chosen Tennessee becoming a state. Jackson played a big role drafting a constitution He was NOT known as a good speaker, but he Believe it or not, Jackson was a big reason state. While other delegates favored naming the state an American Indian name. Also in 1796, Andrew bought a square mile Hill. There, he built a home for Rachel and him When he finally got into politics, Jackson Jefferson. It helped that he still hated Britain, and by Alexander Hamilton that led to peaceful And as it turns out, most of the locals WANTED On December 4, 1796, at the age of 29, he It took 42 days for his first trip to Philadelphia, There he immediately stood out as someone He seemed to be the most outspoken critic That said, Jackson hated being in Congress. On March 4, 1797, Jackson abruptly left the However, after William Blount and others talked ran for and got elected U.S. Senator. Jackson tried...he really did...but he again Not only that, Thomas Jefferson called him a temper. He ultimately only lasted just over six months I guess he just wasn't cut out for making That said, soon after he returned to Nashville, Supreme Court. Still, Jackson was unhappy, and he really Instead, he increasingly longed to be a military want him off fighting wars. -Fighting wars- Oh he'd fight wars alright. But first, he'd have to fight a person who governor of Tennessee. It all started after Sevier wouldn't let militia. Later, Sevier also talked trash about Jackson, petty fogging lawyer" and another time accusing Naturally, Jackson challenged Sevier to a Let me repeat that for you. HE CHALLENGED THE GOVERNOR OF TENNESSEE TO They met to duel on October 1, 1803. After Sevier fell off his horse and broke the two became friends for the rest of their Meanwhile, Jackson had found a way to command Oh, and hey speaking of duels...after the Burr, infamously killed the aforementioned later, Burr became a fugitive and fled west. And guess where Burr stopped by? Andrew Jackson's house, of course. They were friends. Jackson fed him and lodged him soon after about taking over Spanish land, especially That said, Jackson was apparently shocked secede parts of the West from the United States. In 1804, Jackson bought a 425-acre farm, including He named it "The Hermitage." (wide shot) It's where I am right now, as But actually, the mansion was built much later. Over the next 17 years, Andrew and Rachel cabin. Over the years they would expand the complex And despite living in this small cabin, they Over his lifetime, Jackson would own a total 1804 was also the year Jackson stopped being races. There were several times in his life where Notably, that time he got in a duel with a Dickinson talked trash about Rachel, but actually Well, Dickinson DID accuse Andrew of cheating Regardless, another duel here we go. Another guy involved, Thomas Swann, apparently a duel and he just beat him with a cane instead. Anyway, back to Charles Dickinson. Jackson and Dickinson met on May 30, 1806. This time, though, both aimed AT each other. Jackson's bullet hit Dickinson in the abdomen, Dickinson's bullet missed Jackson's heart The bullet actually shattered itself against did not threaten infection. While Jackson recovered from the injury, his chest, since removing it might risk Jackson He'd suffer from chronic pain from the bullet in his chest the rest of his life. Jackson killing Dickinson was technically with it and was never even charged with murder. I mean, it DID hurt his reputation quite a back then. Some historians estimate Jackson was involved In 1807, Jackson testified before a grand charged with treason. Jackson's testimony was pivotal in helping In December 1808, Andrew and Rachel adopted Severn. Though we don't know for sure, it's possible smallpox as a kid, which is why Rachel and They named him Andrew Jackson, Jr., and Andrew, To be honest, Jackson kind of spoiled his By 1810, Andrew Jackson was probably one of few folks knew about him outside of the state. That'd most definitely change over the next In early 1812, Jackson was 44 years old and By that time, it seemed inevitable like the Britain again. Jackson, as you might suspect by this point of going to war with Britain...the most "war In fact, he tried to get a head start, before gather 50,000 volunteer soldiers to prepare Once Congress did declare war on Britain, his militia. When the federal government finally accepted to fight against the Creek Indians, a nation Jackson and his troops didn't see a whole back in Nashville. By this point, his troops were fondly calling attitude, but also his willingness to suffer Keith: Course we're at the Hermitage, home Hickory, near the town of Hermitage, on Old So Old Hickory's all over the place in this Indeed, his troops generally loved him. Thomas Hart Benton, the future Senator, became The two got along great...that is...until a duel with Jackson's Inspector General and In that duel, Carroll asked Jackson to serve Jackson hesitated, worried that he would upset William. In the duel, Carroll shot Jesse Benton in After this, Jackson and Thomas Hart Benton After Benton publicly talked trash, this enraged On September 4, 1813, Jackson and some friends the lobby of the City Hotel in Nashville. Cracking a riding whip, Jackson yelled, "I Defend yourself!" Well long story short, they all ended up getting losing A LOT of blood. Nobody died, but Jackson ALMOST did. One of the bullets had shattered his left His doctor wanted to amputate his arm, but Because of this, the doctor recommended that, Jackson was bedridden for almost a month while Oh, and he and Thomas Hart Benton settled Meanwhile, what became known as the War of soon now...uh...1814. Even though his shoulder was still bothering victory against the Creeks in the Battle of By that time, Andrew and Rachel had adopted One was a boy they named Lyncoya. They also took another orphaned boy they named at the Hermitage. Apparently a third Creek child, given the for a bit with the Jacksons. All had Creek parents who had died during Jackson probably had a soft spot for orphans By August 1814, Jackson had moved his troops kind of just take over Spanish Florida and He justified the potential takeover by arguing at the time thought the idea was a bit crazy. Jackson indeed invaded Florida on November at what became known as the Battle of Pensacola. However, soon after this Jackson learned that New Orleans, a strategically important city River and its tributaries. He got to New Orleans on December 1, 1814, His left arm was still mostly useless. He needed help to write and couldn't even He was probably skinnier at this time than likely due to parasites. He treated his constant severe pain by drinking We later found out that Andrew had lots of Still, New Orleans is where his legendary He quickly took charge of the Louisiana militia. Worried about the loyalty of the city's martial law. He quickly got busy recruiting and raising even forming an alliance with a powerful local He famously put together an untrained, ragtag aristocrats, and members of the Choctaw nation. His troops were so diverse that orders had Choctaw. Not only that, he paid non-white recruits About a month later, he had a force of 5,000 When the British finally arrived, the War knew that. On January 8, 1815, 15 days after a peace and Britain, Jackson's forces clashed with in the most famous battle of the war- The Despite the British having superior forces huge upset victory. They had just 71 casualties. The British? More than 2,000. The victory dramatically raised Jackson's He immediately became a war hero. Well uh, not to the Creeks, who would never Keith: Through his military victories, particularly changes his fortune...but more importantly, Jackson returned here to the Hermitage after to want his help. The Madison administration put Jackson in of the country, for crying out loud. But at least Jackson could command them from Over the next few years, Jackson spent much He signed five different treaties which all acres of land from the Creek, Choctaw, Cherokee This all tended to make the U.S. Secretary you could say since he had been dedicated Soon Jackson and Crawford were enemies. Jackson truly believed that separation between chance of Indian survival. By 1817, all eyes were once again on Florida. In December, the new U.S. Secretary of War, to fight a group of American Indians collectively The Seminoles were attacking settlers along Though Rachel objected, Andrew accepted the Now, keep in mind that President James Monroe Well Jackson interpreted that as just taking Jackson and his forces invaded Florida and forces there. This apparently made Calhoun angry, as he the Constitution since Congress hadn't declared A censure is just a formal disapproval. This move also turned Henry Clay, the Speaker Regardless, Jackson never got in trouble, from Spain anyway. After that war, Jackson went home yet again. In 1819, Jackson began construction on the me. It took two years to complete. It became Jackson's place of refuge, and to leave it ever again. Besides, by then, Jackson's health was in His pain had gotten so bad he could barely By 1820, Jackson owned at least 48 slaves One time, one of them ran away and he said extra reward. Geez dude. Still, around that time the United States and Jackson lost a lot of money after he couldn't The federal government was even forced to retire from his major general position. When people began to meet up with him and President, Jackson had absolutely no desire After all, he didn't expect to live much Heck, he felt lucky he had reached the age But there was soon a HUGE grassroots effort for Jackson to ignore it. This grassroots movement, frankly, freaked also motivated Jackson to run. In 1823, Tennessee put Jackson back in the turned down running for governor. -Champion of the common man- Eventually, enough people talked him into I have a video about this election that you know that this was one of the craziest presidential It ended up being a four-way race between Adams, and the aforementioned William Crawford Jackson had a cult-like following. His supporters passionately campaigned for Many of them were brand new to politics. Jackson didn't even have to campaign. Keith: When Jackson ran, in many if not most You could have been there 20 years working of ground you could not vote. The election of 1824 was so crazy that there in. Jackson received 99 electoral votes, more but he didn't get the MAJORITY of electoral 131. This means the House of Representatives had candidates- Jackson, Adams, and Crawford. Well, Henry Clay used his influence as Speaker for Adams, not Jackson, and ADAMS won the Well, this REALLY angered Jackson's supporters. After all, Jackson not only received the most votes TOTAL, with 41.4% of the popular vote popular vote. For the next four years, Jacksonians, as Jackson revenge. And Jackson's support only grew as he became Amazingly, Jackson stayed humble in public, Privately...yeah he was angry, too. He hung around in the Senate a bit longer, term was supposed to end. By 1828, Jackson supporters were calling themselves Senator from New York named Martin Van Buren, Like Thomas Jefferson before him, Jackson of their own," yet by this time he was definitely Keith: As the folks of the country would say, And so even though he lived in a house like Jackson's opponents dug up all the dirt Uh yeah, it was actually pretty easy for them So many duels, so many fights, so many temper executed at the end of the War of 1812. Jackson's main opponent was President John most issues, which is perhaps why both campaigns Jackson's campaign ran on symbols, not issues. Adams became seen as "the elite insider." Jackson, as the populist outsider. Adams supporters talked trash about how Rachel with Andrew. This made Andrew very, very angry and Rachel Perhaps related to this, Rachel had a heart She did not live to see her husband become Perhaps nothing more negatively affected Jackson wife. He loved her more than anything. What kept him going after her death? Perhaps it was revenge. At her funeral, he said, &quot;May God Almighty them. I never can.&quot; By murderers, he clearly meant Adams' supporters. Eh, it's MORE accurate to say that DUTY On March 4, 1829, Jacksonians flooded D.C. They rushed right up to him to shake his hand. Jackson eagerly greeted them. He probably shook around 10,000 hands that Before John Quincy Adams and his family and stormed the White House and damaged thousands It was pure chaos, man. Adams and his crew escaped narrowly out the -A President like no other- Loyalty was important to Jackson. After he became President, he felt obligated to people who had been loyal to him during Referring to Jackson's victory and his appointments Marcy, a U.S. Senator from New York, said After this, the practice of a political party known as the spoils system, even though the Jackson immediately started investigations corruption. These investigations ultimately found that stolen from the Treasury. Strangely, John Calhoun remained as Vice President, President of Jackson's opponent, Adams and Jackson and Calhoun got along fine...that Crisis. The Petticoat affair was a political scandal Cabinet members and Calhoun's wife all decided Peggy Eaton. It ultimately caused a big rift in Jackson's The Nullification Crisis was a bigger deal, you want to check THAT out. Long story short, after South Carolina tried Congress freaked out, but ultimately passed to nullify, so Jackson was like "nope," to make sure that they paid the gosh darn Keith: Now Jackson, was a southerner. He is a slave owner. But he is a Unionist. He had fought in the Revolution, and he was or anybody else's service in the Revolution By the end of Jackson's first term- oh oops in 1832. Anyway, by the end of Jackson's first term, Martin Van Buren took his place as Veep. Oh hey, speaking of 1832, remember that lead No, not the bullet stuck in his chest. The one from Jesse Benton that shattered his Well, as it turns out, that was what was causing 19 years. Hmmm. Go figure. In 1832, Jackson let Thomas Harris, a doctor out. It was an inch below Jackson's skin. Dr. Harris squeezed Jackson's arm, and the It's worth noting that Jackson didn't he did apparently drink some alcohol. Jackson may have been popular, but he also By the end of his first term there was an a new political party- The Whig Party, led hated Jackson more than any other politician. The two most controversial things Jackson the Indian Removal Act and declare war on closest thing resembling a central bank at The Indian Removal Act gave Jackson the power from their lands. And that's exactly what Jackson did. By the end of his presidency, Jackson had to reservations west of the Mississippi to About 70,000 people, many of them dying on After the Supreme Court ruled FOR the Cherokee Georgia, Georgia ignored it, and Jackson didn't Regarding the Second Bank of the United States, Keith: Using taxpayer money. And that, to Jackson, was just unconscionable. He favored a decentralized system that he and small business owners. Throughout most of his second term as President, simply as The Bank War. After Congress voted to reauthorize the Bank, all the Bank's federal deposits, instead banks across the country. The Bank War led to Jackson being the first The Senate censured him on March 28, 1834 to the whole ordeal. Regardless, Jackson mostly remained popular, the elites and for the "common man." In 1835, Jackson became the only President debt. He was against the national debt because, Regarding slavery, other than sending federal Jackson mostly didn't bring up slavery much, country. The Jackson administration was successful countries around the world. Jackson appointed five Supreme Court justices Most were not elite-types, of course. Jackson almost certainly would have been elected the two-term tradition, announced his retirement, his place. Thanks to Jackson's popularity, Van Buren On the last day of his Presidency, Jackson He later called for its annexation. After he left the Presidency, Jackson retired Most of the last years of his life were during Panic of 1837 which most historians say Jackson That depression certainly hurt his reputation, years. Still, Jackson stayed politically influential Speaking of his final days, most of the photographs Only like...three photos of him exist. He spent much of his final days with his family. He had survived so much crazy stuff throughout failed him on June 8, 1845. He was 78. -The Legacy of Old Hickory- While Andrew Jackson was and still is a polarizing left a lasting impact on the United States. He was the first president born in poverty...the He expanded democracy. Keith: Jackson redefined what democracy meant. In fact, in most history textbooks, high school who's had an era named after him because Democracy." That impacted the most people long term. His rise to power led to the development of Jackson also strengthened the office of the Keith: ...from being a, I won't say exclusively that of an active chief executive. Heck, in some ways he even preserved the Union. Keith: I like the statement that's in our Jackson says "I was born for a storm and self-evaluation. Of course what he doesn't say when he says of those storms himself. Others he didn't back down from. Jackson would not back down. Known for his fiery personality and for being man," he single handedly changed American For better or for worse. Nah, actually I'd say mostly for better. Sometimes we need outsiders in there to shake Jackson indeed was a champion for the underdog. Well, the white underdogs. Hey, it was still progress. And folks forget that Jackson, even though for President, truly was a rags to riches He was born in poverty and rose up, the first American Dream. Jackson never forgot his humble leadership style helped shape the American granted today. That all said, critics called him a demagogue Sure, he was terrifying. He was racist....and a little crazy. But I think the United States ultimately ended A shout out to Ann McClane, Keith Hardison, Nashville who helped me make this video. So which President should I cover next for Let me know your opinion on THE INTERNET. Keith: Well was that enough for ya? Yeah, thank you so much.