- There are a lot of about emotions and how they work. One myth is that emotions are hardwired into the brain at birth and and maybe even shared with other animals. Another myth is that the in a very reactive kind of way. It's based on this idea that of a brain, and when the rational side of your brain wins, you are And when the emotional then you're either immoral because you didn't try hard because you couldn't It can certainly feel like that they bubble up and and say things that are maybe ill-advised. But that explanation how your brain is making emotions. My name is Lisa Feldman Barrett. I am a university-distinguished professor at Northeastern University, and my latest book is entitled &quot;Seven and a Half I've been studying emotions So, right off the bat, I should tell you scientists don't agree on how to define emotion. Like, everybody agrees but nobody can agree on the definition of what an emotion is. So, there's great variability Some people float in a sea of tranquility. They're kind of mild, Other people tread water in They're constantly having They feel as if their of them controlling their emotions. But all of that experience- that emotions are events that you have to deal with- is an illusion that the brain creates. So for example, something It triggers that ancient emotion circuits deep in our inner beast, and then we react to what's But that's really not what emotions are- and that's not how they work. - [Director] So, how would you define an instance of emotion? - The way that I would Your brain is always regulating your body. Your body is always sending to your brain, like how much glucose, how much oxygen, how much salt? What's the status of almost that keeps you alive and well? And your brain isn't wired in a way for you to experience those Instead, what you experience is a summary- and that's where those feelings of pleasantness or unpleasantness, feeling worked up or that's where those simple - [Director] So, is that - Not exactly. Feelings are properties of an episode of emotion, but they're not synonymous with emotions. Just in the same way that as quiet or loud. You can experience feeling And what your brain is doing about what is going on inside your body in relation to what's And it's creating this about emotion that you have to predict what you're going That's what an emotion is. That's what an instance of any emotion is, but it's also an explanation for how every thought, every every action that you ever take So, why is it important? When something goes wrong, you need to use your explanation as a tool to figure out how to fix things. For example, in depression, because your brain believes in your body. And the symptoms of of the brain's attempt to cut costs. So, you feel fatigued You feel like you can't because moving your body is That's where depression comes from. It doesn't necessarily mean in the world or with you, although sometimes it does mean that. So, part of managing out when unpleasant feelings in the world, and when they're that things are uncertain or that you're doing If you understand that the brain's most coordinating the systems of the body, then you start to think about The fact that emotions that your brain is making them- and that your brain is as fodder for predicting what's going to happen, has The first really big implication is that you are an architect and that doesn't involve It involves seeding your You're not necessarily but your past experiences, in your brain, are a of your present experience It's really hard to reach back into the past and change and how you experienced them; that's what psychotherapy is for. But if you understand that every experience of your brain's ability to that the best way to change your past is to change your present. So, just in the same way to make yourself healthier, to cultivate different You can learn new things, even maybe act in a play that different experiences that get you outside of the normal range of what Because if you practice they become more automatic, and then your brain just to predict differently in the future, and for you to act which gives you the than you are right now. Not everybody has as much but everybody has a little more control than they think they do. When you enter this world as an infant, you're not wired full of memories that your brain will use to predict. Other people cultivate your world and as a consequence, they of experiences that your brain You didn't have a hand and you are not responsible for it. But as an adult, you can make decisions about You can make choices about how you act, and those decisions and choices either reinforce the predictions or it changes them. Sometimes in life, we are not because we're culpable but because we're the only And that can feel in a certain way. But it's also helpful because it means that you always have tools available at your disposal to heal and to feel differently.