How's it going? Mr. Mo, I've checked. There are at least five C4 time bombs. Only about ten minutes to go We are not confident that we can defuse all the bombs I suggest evacuating all people now. [Broken Mission] I'm Mo Yun, Senior Inspector You suspected you were followed twice and you received death threats, right? Then someone sent you a dead cat. Mr. Zhou, I don't think it's a prank. Are you hiding anything from us? What would I hide? Just do a check, As a citizen, Can't I invite you up for a cup of tea? Check out the stock. It's still rising. Two hours to go I don't believe Based on the clues and evidence it doesn't look like a prank to me. We have to keep him company like this Just wait and see. This guy looks so nervous. 15 minutes to go before the close. It has gone up by eight points. Like I said, it's a prank. Officer Mo, thank you for coming. Sorry to bother you. Wendy, make tea for Officer Mo. It's fine, Mr. Zhou. Actually, I don't care about the rise You reported being threatened didn't you? Yet you're so sure it's a prank. How about you make a statement? We'll leave, Okay, thank you. Take the dead cat with you Wait, what's going on? Get the whole team in here right now. Speaking. Mr. Zhou, the stock price Shareholders have been calling me I don't need you to tell me. Yes, it's me, Zhou. My stocks are constantly being sold off. Can you help me suspend trading? That's impossible. Indeed, there are fluctuations But don't worry. It might be a market adjustment. Now tell me. Have any of your shareholders involving criminal cases or fraud? What fraud? What criminal cases? Speaking. What exactly is going on? Our shareholders saying they'll expose Where did you buy this tea? It's good. You know it very well. According to our investigation, go down by 27 points in a short time, it will take a long time to achieve it. It requires hundreds of accounts to slowly absorb this stock and then a major sell-off In that case, it will take more time and effort to track unusual stock transactions. Actually, it's simple I just need to know Officer Mo, going by what you said, why not you give us, And after our investigation, we will collect all the evidence How about that? We're just doing our own jobs. There's one thing I don't understand. The person behind this If a person commits a crime it means this guy is already very rich. How much did we lose? It's not much to you. Sir, time for the massage. Dropping 19 points at the close is fine. Come on. 19 points. What's the point Sir, how shall we We won't make a move. Let the Commercial Crimes start first. If they find anything criminal, they will come back to us, right? So, I think I wonder if Officer Bai has lost a lot. I heard he has a connection How about transferring you Then you can find it out. This person did it not for money. So, this guy has an ulterior motive. 19 points won't smash Zhou Shiwen. That was just a warning. So, this guy will make a bigger move. So, how was it? You're looking pretty good today. Your feet are not feeling well? Let me take a look. No way. Weren't you recovering well last week? It's the other one, isn't it? Why didn't you tell me earlier? Yeah, this one is a bit harder. You know it yourself. You'd better move more. Otherwise, what will happen to you? Officer Bai is seeing Officer Mo Is Officer Mo in trouble? Given their connections, Officer Mo will be fine for sure, Are you interested? How about transferring you That's him. Don't think it is unrelated to us. The Commercial Crimes If others hear that they help us catch the criminal, we will be embarrassed. But we can't step in I think there's more to this case. Anyway, you solve it Yes, sir. You have nothing else to do? Follow up on Zhou Shiwen's case closely. Yes, sir. The Zhou Group has a good reputation. It has no negative news. How come many scandals suddenly broke? That's not true. I once read something He even caused someone's death. Are you sure? It's huge. Exactly, where did you read it? I've bought the tickets. I will finish work at 8:00 PM. What is this website? It's a non-profit website called FREE. Many people leave messages Some victims who aren't fairly treated get their feelings out on this platform. Some even confess what they've done Anyway, the information disclosed by the members have a certain degree of credibility. Look. [A listed company fraud, credibility 70%] has reached 70%, which is high. Collect all the case information You have so much free time to read all these boring things? Sorry, I have to work overtime tonight. I don't think You two move that computer. Put these on the table. Officer Mo, what took you so long? Am I late? No big deal. You do your thing. I'll do mine. Mr. Zhou, are you alright? Mr. Zhou, you must hate the person Why not work with us, the Major Crimes? We'll solve the case faster than them. Okay. Thank you. [Bright Light Bounty Association, [Animal Abuse, [Animal Abuse, Intolerable] [I'm going to kill him right now!] [Real nuts. Who did this? So scary.] Attention. Find out the address Stand by. We'll start to act. Western District Major Crimes. Yes, I am. We have received some report. Please open the door. Okay, hold on. Knock the door down. Stop! Stop. Don't move. Let go of me. Call an ambulance. Do justice. Kill every bad guy. Do justice. Do justice. Kill every bad guy. Get a reward. And prizes. So, is he the creator of the website? Obviously, he lost his mind. But one thing is for sure. The person we're looking for must have It will be a tough job. Why are you looking at me? Get to work. What's so urgent? Sir, calm down. Don't get too excited. Come with me. Good news. Jieyi. Jieyi. Do you know who I am? She just woke up. Don't wear her out. So, is she cured now? Thank you, Zhi. Back then, I asked you I knew this decision How could you be a sinner? Haven't you always There are so many cases. Yingying, this website I want you to categorize all the cases and see which ones are financial, criminal, and personal vendettas. And then find the criminals. Go through all members' messages. Pay attention to any extreme messages, of personal hatred or revenge. contact the Network Division and trace the IP addresses For those deliberately they will be our primary targets, okay? Yes, sir. Overtime again. Sorry, but I can't watch the movie Maybe you should dump me I still have days off. 999 Emergency Center. My husband has been missing for a day. Here. Have some more. I have something to attend to. I'll be back late tonight. Don't worry. I'll be right back Zhi will take care of you. Be good. Five years ago, in the Letian Community, there was That case was sensational It caused many deaths. I have a feeling are all related to this case. On the website FREE, this case and the financial case Officer Mo, you mean... Investigate the two cases together. it's highly likely that we will find a Batman This website is indeed expecting That's why it's so popular. I don't care what his motivation is. In our judicial system, there's no place for a Batman. And that's the point. If this Batman continues it means we're inadequate and that there are loopholes I found something. Come and take a look. Someone has re-commented The people involved Notify the Network Division and find out his IP address. I'll notify Officer Mo. Did he leave any other messages? This is a newly registered account. I've checked his homepage. Apart from this reply, I found no other records. [Investigation Team Two: The Savior says Showing up in the park at night We are the police. When we're investigating cases, Officer Mo said he wore a mask and acted sneakily. And he ran away after hearing a shout. Isn't he suspicious? This guy showed up Why did he come back So sentimental? Or maybe he has got something to do with the victims But that's not our main concern Most importantly, we have to find out Help me contact the Lands Department I need the planning map within a two-kilometer radius Yes, sir. Where is this? Let me see. According to the map this should be a cavern You mean the cavern Exactly. That's where the collapsed building was. No wonder the case occurred. It would take so much money And it could be a huge project. Those developers are unscrupulous. Notify related departments. Those eight missing persons Got it. What are you doing? Pull over. You've really made it big now. You made the headlines. The media described the criminal As you said, the financial case and the eight deaths case If you can't catch him, let alone you. Rest assured. I've had many clues. We'll catch him soon. How much time do you need? Ten days? Okay. Even a week is too long for me. The ambulance But the suspect didn't leave any trace. Why did he risk coming back? Because he's not finished yet. In this case, Each person died from infection. That's how the criminal revenged He's a clever criminal. So, what do we do now? Help me find out the survivors of the collapse back then? Every survivor is a subject [Breaking News: Multiple-Car Accident] (At noon, on the highway (a chain-reaction car accident occurred (The criminal threw the injured out, (The victim was one of the persons in charge I'm Mo Yun, Senior Inspector I need some information on the survivors of the Letian Community incident Okay, give me the list, Most of the persons on the list have recovered and been discharged except for one. Her name is Zhou Jieyi. She was in a vegetative state. A man took her out of the hospital. (We all saw him) (as a super good man.) (And he was very handsome.) (Many female medical staff joked) (that if they had such a good man, (to be in a vegetative state.) (If I'm not mistaken,) (it's highly likely (who thinks that he is doing justice.) Here, and here. There would be no problem Western District Major Crimes. Hello, Officer Mo. I haven't introduced myself yet. Fusheng Bank robbery in 1998. Kidnapping of the Richest Person Marlon Street serial killings in 2003. The Top 1 drug dealer in Asia, You've got so much information on me. Sort of. Officer Mo, what brings you here? It hasn't been safe lately, You should be cautious. By the way, Have you ever taken a walk It is a very famous ecological park. It'd be good to take a stroll there. But I don't have the habit Is there something wrong? There's a kidnapping and assault case. I suspect it's related One of the victims is called Zhou Jieyi. According to the records, she was in a vegetative state. Later, someone applied to take her away. You were the applicant. So, what were you doing on the night By law, if you have no evidence, and Mr. Hu doesn't have he won't answer any of your questions. Next time, I'll come to you Officer Mo. Say hi to Officer Bai for me. Thanks. Jieyi. I've got an idea. Since you just woke up, you must want to eat your favorite food. I'm going to name some of it. If I guess right, just nod. I'll cook for you, okay? Barbecued pork with eggs. Lately, what have you been up to? You can finally speak. Jieyi. It's so great. I saw the news on the TV. It's about the construction case. What news? I hardly watch the news now. Who knows if it's true or false? Listen, you're awake Don't think about anything. Just rest. Maybe you'll be able to walk again soon. Be good. Someone called Hu Mingzu knows you. Hu Mingzu? I don't know him. Many people watch and know me on TV. If my judgment is correct, following the thought, the first letter of the word Please find all the words Hello, I am a police officer. We need your cooperation. Have you seen any suspicious persons? Who is it? Western District Major Crimes. You called the police? Is Principal Li Sheng'an home? Mo Yun, Senior Inspector. I didn't call the police. There have been Based on the clues and investigation, we have reason to believe Maybe we should just tell him. My daughter has been kidnapped. Hello? (Mr. Li, a bomb was found at the school. Officer Mo. How is it going? Let me ask. This bad guy came to my home. My daughter has been kidnapped, If anything happens to my daughter, How much does Chairman Zhou donate Don't forget how much money The neighbors are all anxiously waiting after hearing The atmosphere inside is pretty intense. How's it going? Officer Mo, I've checked. There are at least five C4 time bombs. Only about ten minutes to go We are not confident that we can defuse I suggest evacuating all people now. Officer Mo. You can't leave. Mr. Li, please calm down. Just to be clear, If the bomb squad asks us to retreat, Mr. Li, you have to evacuate as well. Officer Mo. I am an older dad. Mr. Li, I know, but... Officer Mo, please. Get up. Please don't do this, alright? Stop it. It's very embarrassing. Only ten minutes left? Only nine minutes left. Only nine minutes left, Mr. Li. I'm begging you. Don't be like this, Mr. Li. I'm begging you. It's okay, little girl. Don't move. I will be quick. Don't move. Sweetie. Sweetie. Sweetie. Sweetie. The kidnapper didn't want Go. That male teacher is like a beast. What's wrong with you? Such a beast deserves it. But surprisingly, such a scandal can actually exist under a judicial system and just. I thought of something. If you'd like to take revenge you'd surely hurt their beloved ones. So I'm sure he was there Because he expected to see Li Sheng'an You guys get the surveillance footage from around the school Stop, rewind. Okay, play. Rewind. Slow. Stop, okay. See? It's this person. Have you ever seen him? How can you be so sure? Back then, But he remained calm standing amid the reporters, See? His hand was in his pocket. Gosh, was he pressing the detonator? Zoom in to make it clearer. Is it better now? Okay. Take a screenshot Officer Mo is &quot;back&quot;. Officer Bai. I know where Hu Mingzu is, Move. Officer Mo, all of our computers All have been changed Hello? What do you want? I've been wondering FREE. What does the last &quot;E&quot; stand for? Turns out it stands for ELISOR. He wants to challenge the rule of law He thinks he's a Batman? You're his next target. Why me? I'm also curious. Can you tell me? What happened between you two? Why is he against you? He is already dead. I didn't expect his son would find me. Ma'am. Tell your husband not to meddle. I won't take this money. What's so good about being a journalist? Drunk driving. You can walk? Where's Zhi? He went out. Thank you for remembering my birthday. Not at all. You just could walk. Don't walk around. Zhi isn't here. What if you fall? Are you worried about me? Or are you afraid that I'd find something in the dungeon? Why have you become like this? They all got what they deserved. How are you any different from them? They committed crimes You are just making things worse. The law? Judged by the law? I've been planning it for five years. You've been in a coma for five years Without my plan, So, you think you're doing justice? You'll end up being a serial killer. Your crimes are even more unforgivable. I'm well aware of what I'll become. The world will judge what I am. And because of me, some people would still wonder where justice is. You should rest early. 999 Emergency Center. Good night. You called the police? Yes, Officer Mo. Thanks for your cooperation. Lots of stuff in the dungeon. You take her statement, We'll surely get promoted What are you doing? Get to work. We're done here. You've been in a coma for five years. And your boyfriend has been taking care But you reported him. If the police catch him, and he's imprisoned for 10 years, 20 years, or even 30 years, he can still start over, But now, If I don't stop him, he's surely going to die. And more people will die too. [Unknown Number] Speaking. Hello, Officer Mo. Do you know we're all looking for you? Escape? Who told you I would do that? Let's get this straight. Do you dare to see me? Look back. Follow me. Don't move. You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say can and will be used Understood. Since I dared to come to you, I came prepared. Why not hear me out? Right now, I'm holding the truth and even the netizens want to know. Your buddy Bai Bin took a bribe I will take the evidence I know what you're up to. My leader committed a crime. He will be subject to legal sanctions. But you're going horribly astray Just to be clear, Officer Mo, your buddy Bai Bin is going astray. Do you know how many bad apples If Bai Bin could be sanctioned by law, I wouldn't be here with you. We've been friends for so many years. Can you be honest with me? Are you hiding anything from me? You still don't understand. Why can I reach this position Do you think the media is always right? No one cares whom he shed tears for. I won't be threatened by Hu Mingzu. The police force is under my command. I have a way to catch him. Up until now, you're still using your power Do you really think Do you know there's a department The ICAC must uphold the fairness and justice of the rule of law Whoever uses the official power will be our target. We've received an anonymous report. Someone has been a policeman He used his power and illegally profited tens of millions Moreover, he's also involved Who has such great power? The Chief Superintendent Bai Bin. What brings you guys here? Gao Daorong, ICAC Chief Investigator. We suspect senior officer Bai Bin Please assist us with our investigation. Corruption? Are you nuts? Any evidence? This is the police station. Looking for Officer Bai? He's not here. So, the ICAC came to make an arrest? It seems they have the evidence. Who are they arresting? I feel sorry for Officer Mo. He's been his friend for so many years, and he always trusted and stood by him. My dad was killed by a corrupt cop. So, I vowed to become a good cop. I didn't expect Officer Bai Speaking. Officer Mo, the ICAC came just now But he's away all day long today. We received a report that he was I'm heading to his place right now. You call for reinforcements. Copy that. Officer Bai. Ever since I met Bai Bin I've seen the ugliness of human nature Turns out some people could be so evil. Even if he ruined my family, no one would know. In fact, I really wanted to believe that Bai Bin would be So, I waited. I've been waiting, He's gotten away with it. Officer Mo. I know you're a good cop. Today, since I'm here, I will not give up.