I had a dream, which was not all a dream. Did wander darkling in the eternal space, Swung blind and blackening in the moonless air; And all hearts And men were gather'd round their blazing homes Happy were those who dwelt within the eye A fearful hope was all the world contain'd; They fell and faded--and the crackling trunks [Haunting music, fire burns with intense roar] It was the disaster that shook the 1930s. One of to sea; aboard were hundreds of holiday-makers coming back from Cuba. The voyage had been a well-liked veteran of the sea, died suddenly a storm. And then, the next day; the smell of was consumed by a fire that ate its beautiful beleaguered crew. Those left with no chance On a popular holiday beach appeared and an incredulous public looked on with morbid passengers washed up around the wreck for days accident the Morro Castle story passed from the a different story - a story which painted one of Today we're going to wind the clock back more - we'll visit the scene of the disaster, to experts in the field to unravel determine once and for all if this terrible Ladies and gentlemen I'm your friend Mike the terrifying true story of the SS Morro Castle. [Billy Murray sings 'I'll See You in C-U-B-A!'] 1930s Havana. For years American tourists the exotic climate and rich culture had tourism boomed as thirsty Americans flocked trouble was brewing. The Great Depression saw and terrorist groups conducted bombings. In and a tug of war for control of the Americans streamed ashore excited to spend and many of them were taken there by the [Billy Murray sings 'I'll See You in C-U-B-A!'] Mostly forgotten about today, the Ward Line America's self-proclaimed oldest shipping line. beginning when James Otis Ward established a under the name of New York and Cuba Mail Steamship corner. By the turn of the century Ward had bought monopoly on passenger and freight services Cuba. So associated was Ward Line with Cuba that first ever steam ship had even been named Cuba. strength building a succession of increasingly finest reputations for safety at sea. Even during of its ships survived the conflict with its two ships. Even then, before the war, Cuba had been seeking to escape New York's freezing blizzards; off. A surge in the price of sugar saw Havana ports - and Ward Line was there to lap up the new concrete dock system which would see monstrous all on Ward Line ships, at great profit. But while its fortune of course it was prohibition and the happy profits too because there was no end of a few days to escape the drudgery of a United cigars - dancing girls - palm trees - and booze. services to the Island nation from its base at Seaport - the company had let its fleet fall into and doddering and passengers couldn't help but trouble as costs began to skyrocket - it nearly to their assistance. Maintaining a link with Cuba wouldn't do to see Ward Line crumble. In fact the and Congress knew it - it passed the 1928 Merchant dollars into shipbuilding. Ward Line jumped at the modern sister ships that would see the Company eastern province of Cuba, Oriente - but the guarded the entrance to Havana's harbour called it Castillo de los Tres Reyes Magos del At the time Morro Castle was lauded for its American shipbuilding and nearly everything the Ward Line she represented an enormous She'd been built by the experienced and Company - launched in March 1930 and finished for some 146 meters long and around 11,520 GRT; what she lacked for in size she more than Inside the hull was packed a set of modern burning fuel oil in boilers was fed at high like giant dynamous, generated enormous amounts two of them, which drove a propeller each. The efficient and decently quick with a service speed this was blistering. The sisters set a record, and 40 minutes. Ward Line's timing had been superb Company had managed to build two new modern ships Morro Castle set off on her maiden voyage on and owners. Until then Ward Line had only lost two its years of service - its reputation for safety to continue that tradition and by the latter part September 1 at 4pm the Morro Castle set out cargo and cheerful passengers keen to passengers waved excitedly to loved ones not well aboard Morro Castle - and that [Relaxed 1930s jazz music] Surging along at 20 knots Morro Castle made her alive with excited chatter and laughter - and spared no expense in kitting their pride and afloat on any American-built ship. Ward dining saloon with its fine columns and balcony served tea and refreshments - the raucous and ship-themed band stand. But perhaps the located nearly perfectly amidships on B-Deck; this with carved panels brilliantly varnished along carpets - an incredibly welcoming room that could Behind it was the smoking room, suitably masculine and writing room - lighter than the lounge with hugging windows that ran nearly the height of away the hours reading or reporting home on - a books that could be loaned for the voyage. This Line made sure to use full-colour illustrations they came, an assortment of characters all It was no secret that the Great Depression especially at sea - fare numbers dropped off afloat but Oriente and Morro Castle sailed back New York every Saturday and the other leaving Cuba to keep the entire operation going - but with a spare. Ward Line began to offer bargain cruises coming along for a holiday that would be a less than the average month's wage, passengers exotic Havana; the trip was billed as a passengers were promised two days and one night even afford the more expensive offers; ten days ships running back and forth every few days, which Ward Line could organise for minimal cost tours and trips. Passengers were promised gala dinners - in the dance deck nightly even a dedicated cruise director. There was passengers were catered to with their own play pleasure palaces and tickets sold despite the fact toughest financial slump it had ever faced. deals just proved unavoidable and they stepped As Morro Castle slipped out of New York and their comfortable surroundings and got to know rigid and formal - but the last days of the partying. But even so, as passengers danced the happy facade of the ship hid some dark secrets On the bridge stood Captain Robert R. Willmott, a experience. He presided over his ship with an other captains shied away from the more social Wilmott reveled in socialising with passengers, enthralled with his tales of life at sea. He chose to delay their voyages until they knew he jobs with other lines he chose to stay with Captain Willmott's pleasant exterior belied some reluctance to conduct emergency drills. He sentiments - so much so he may have thought drills slipped on a hydrant that was leaking he had it state-of-the-art smoke detection system in case cargo or cigars. This skirted protocols but content - his crew was another thing entirely. the Ward Line and the American Merchant Marine Ships are strange places - they are, for their of politics, bickering and resentment that can to unprecedented levels. Captain Wilmott presented to be running like clockwork - the sad truth is discontent and ruled over by the Ward Line left the Morro Castle, with its grueling weekly worked overtime to double up their workload for a and wages pathetically low - as little as $30 was around $100. Times were tough and discontent end of the voyage, was Cuba and opportunity. consisted of the usual goods; Cuban sugar amongst began to take on unsanctioned goods. Marijuana streets - then heroin and cocaine to peddle back fetched a premium back in prohibition-era U.S.A found its way aboard the Ward Line sister ships were routinely shipped between New York and there were the people. Even though it was gripped of opportunity for many in Latin America - to of new immigration quotas set by a 1924 Act seemed of doing it. Morro Castle frequently sailed badly easy for crew members to make a buck smuggling into unused cabins for the three-day long voyage. the old law of supply and demand reigned. Beneath and retirees were huddled Cuban refugees - the violent unrest of their mother nation. The on volatile and overseeing all of it was Captain over the issues as easily as the crew painted Castle steamed on for Havana - it was the last After just a few short days sailing Morro Castle it was the entrance to the port of Havana; some exciting time off. With the ship tied up and exciting land - but behind remained the crew cargo and turning down the ship's staterooms north for New York. Over the next day they back from a holiday that had thrilled and passengers were members of the Concordia York. Dozens of couples with ties to the group and his wife Mary, berthed down on D-deck Then there were all the newly-married honeymooners from New York. Charles was a tall, pencil mustache that made him look like a movie often banter in their letters back and forth with Once Selma had sent him a postcard from a sunny "It's bad enough sending me a postcard with an without having the effrontery to rub it in. I or at least a freckled nose!" The cruise package and Oriente had taken them to The Filtzers were far from the only newlyweds and Harriet who'd just been married in a sports champion in school but turned his 21 years of age was from a migrant family and store. Then there was Paul and Marjorie he was a dental surgeon who lived above Paul's family - with little money to finance a big the short $65 cruise deal was the perfect cover As Morro Castle's passengers found their their own arrangements down below, positioning departure - but here it's thought that some of profit smuggling the usual contraband - drugs or crew to take their children far away to the land later - it's thought that in the chaos of boarding down below in cabins with meager rations for crew member who'd arranged their passage waiting family in New York city. They were fully loaded with fuel, provisions and made steam and her engines thumped and soon The return voyages to New York were always passengers cut loose and partied before their that was, in large part, thanks to cruise director Smith was master of the fun to be had aboard; as popular among passengers as his captain. the horse racing and even sightseeing tours could even enjoy a putting green during their over another critical activity; life jacket at finding their life jackets, putting them on thought excessive drills would panic passengers the Lusitania - in their heads in the middle of Wilmott put his passenger's comfort "It's safer on the ship", he said, Wilmott got his wish; the 318 passengers certainly doubt the newlyweds and honeymooners mixed and children especially, the Morro Castle must have 8, was aboard with his father, Joseph, a dentist holiday there was a secret purpose to the trip. intended to remarry. It had been an immense trial to soften the blow and to tell his son the news. courage to have the difficult conversation with and her husband, Cuban surgeon Braulio. They were Marta 11, Margarita 8 and Braulio Jr 13 who had often and lived well; in 1927 they'd taken a were on A-deck, Morro Castle's boat deck and The orchestra played, the engines rumbled loomed. A freshening breeze plucked at years at sea told him what it meant; Wind howled, and the ship pitched and rolled as The weather had shifted just as Wilmott knew it Morro Castle's ornate paneling began to creak and motion of the ship would have brought the dreaded to it were confined to their staterooms to try nausea. The Captain was complaining of stomach was 55 and in seemingly good health - but he began is stressful enough, to be sure but Wilmott's mind under his command - the unhappy crew, the unstable unusual for such a gregarious character, and If anything were to happen to Wilmott command Chief Officer William Warms. Where Wilmott was reserved and bitterly disliked by the crew. His Wilmott had been absent in the past, command captains had been brought in specifically. The crew thought he simply had none, that he men like Wilmott natural figures in control she was in good hands, even with the As the day wore on the seas became bigger nor'easter threatened to check Morro Castle's battle a strong headwind and heavy seas - but well equipped to handle it. Bob Smith, cruise for the farewell party, a raucous tradition on in a roaring dance contest. It all began absent was captain Wilmott. His seat at the who so enjoyed his company and even chose to the absence. The captain was instead in his nothing to settle his stomach. He'd phoned up to fell silent. His crew left him be to get over Outside, winds picked up and by about nearly 50km/h. Morro Castle's bow lifted over electric engines meant she should be able just as her builders had intended. Chief officer sudden interruption and shocking news from the way topside where he found Dr Van Zile with The news was like a gunshot that spread it began as a rumour amongst the crew to the passengers. It was true; the ship's report a boiler problem but he got no answer. his bathtub stone dead and van Zile had given a Ward Line's most beloved captain was dead and with who would take his place? With Morro Castle was needed to guide the ship through the worst of no time in sending an urgent radio message ashore Wilmott but it may have been a move to assume some favored Chief Engineer Eben Abbott but in the took control of the ship. His first act was to promoted up one rank to assume the duties of then he turned his attention back to Wilmott. where the Captain had been found and locked the director Bob Smith. The night's festivities were passing. Smith took on perhaps the most difficult stage in the dining saloon and announced, through of the passengers was doused immediately and Smith his announcement, even going to individual groups The party was canceled but passengers were told small groups and chatted quietly; many turned sheets and the Morro Castle groaned under the hours from home but she'd be arriving without the As the night wore on and the small groups Warms stayed in quiet vigil on the bridge bow and intent on seeing the liner into New crew who suggested he get some rest - this was a big test of his mettle and to pull it captain material. Throughout the ship, as the 7th lights began to be doused in empty public and finished cigars. Just after 1:30am the little over 70 miles, 114km away. In the Smoking was serving a table of gentlemen that refused interrupted by a passenger who asked if he could smoking room but the passenger said it seemed could have dismissed the man because passengers else to do at such a late hour he followed the he was right. Something was burning. He stepped smoke, pouring out from the cracks in the door of but it burned his hand; he sprang back in pain furnace from a steam locomotive. Glowing red-hot consumed by flames but with the sudden inrush a fierce blue-white colour. Campbell ran for help On the bridge, William Warms paced back and in fact Second Officer Clarence Hackney with just a few short hours until rounding Sandy Warms was determined to see his ship home presence made the Middle Watch crew nervous. breathless night watchman barked out a simple rising slowly from the mouth of a deck vent it was obvious cause for alarm but Warms took the officer Hackney, "and see if there's a fire." Fifty feet away, near the radio room, wireless startled by the sound of rushing feet. Junior and he could smell smoke too - he burst into was asleep and tried to rouse him. As Alagna him out of the way and took control, tuning he stopped. A distress call required direct use the phone line proved futile when the line with Rogers sat waiting at the set Alagna rushed Down below passengers were disturbed from First class passenger Doris Whacker had a stateroom which opened directly out onto view of the room below, normally full of happy as she left her friends' cabin to go back to attention. She peered out over the railing and buckets to throw water onto a roaring fire Second Officer Hackney burst into the lounge to wildly out of the reading and writing room and It roared angrily and crackled as varnished stewards desperately threw buckets of water charging bull with a spray bottle. The battle no idea it was already over. For the ship's 318 that would see their ship consumed completely roar through the ship, cutting off escape In the radio room Chief operator George his nostrils. He was unmoved by the drama and bridge with orders from Warms. Through his headset it was from a nearby freighter and asked if had been spotted in the darkness burning. the negative but Rogers stayed quiet. The he was quite used to dealing with them. the ship's fire before anyone else. Morro Castle In part 2 of Inferno: The Burning of Morro Castle... hulk - dozens are forced to take their chances in The ship washes up at a popular of thousands and as investigations begin Captain Wilmott's death and the ship's like an accident and a hero of the disaster We'll visit the Morro Castle's final resting with friend of the channel, researcher and task of retrieving the ship's victims. to understand what really caused the