[music] Hello! Today we are going to prepare wonderful, extraordinary beautiful cookies! I'm sure you will surprise all your family with these wonderful cookies! But the cooking method is surprisingly simple using an ordinary bottle top. Look, how lovely it is. The cookie is very tasty, and crumbly! Can you see how wonderful these cookies are! On my channel there are more than 1000 recipes for delicious dishes. You can easily find a specific recipe by doing a YouTube search. Just write the combination ludaeasycook and the name of the dish or any word in the dishes name. Now in order to prepare these delicious cookies I need approximately 450 grams of flour. Of course, the flour can be a little more or a little less, depending on the consistency if the mixture. Also, I will need 125 grams of odorless vegetable oil, 125 grams of soft butter, 125 grams of sugar, salt - approximately a quarter teaspoon, 1 egg, 10 grams of baking powder for the dough, 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract and also 15 grams of cocoa powder. I will make the dough in a bowl! Add the soft butter, salt and sugar and mix well with a whisk to a creamy mixture. Now I add egg, 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract, and mix well again. Now I pour in vegetable oil and mix. The mixture is very simple and it turns out very tasty and crumbly. Now into the mixture I sift flour, but not all at once, leave a little bit. I add baking powder for the dough. And now with my hands I begin kneading the dough. The dough should become soft. Mix well. Now we add more flour, so the dough should not stick to hands. Look at the dough I now have. It is very smooth and soft! I'm not adding all the flour at once now. You see? I have left approximately 20 grams of flour, not more. Now I need to divide dough roughly in half. One portion we put aside. In one part of the dough, I will add some more flour approximately 15 grams and knead. In time, you see? I have obtained a beautiful dough! I will save it. I take the other half of the dough, in which I didn't add the flour and add cocoa. Knead. As you know now, of course, I will add the flour to get the dough consistency smooth and the same as the first half of the dough. Knead the dough well until the cocoa is uniform throughout the dough. Here I have the dough with cocoa! The two pieces of dough I now wrap in cling film and leave for about 10 minutes in the refrigerator to allow the dough to rest. The dough is rested for me now and I will roll it out. The dough is easier to roll out now it is rested. I roll it out using a silicone mat. I cover the top of the dough with film so my rolling pin doesn't stick to it. As I roll the dough through the film I do not have to use more flour. Roll out the dough into a nice flat layer. The thickness of the dough should be 2-3 millimeters. so I roll out the dough. Look the edge is not quite right here. I will adjust with my hands so all is neat and well smoothed and even. Now remove the cling film and we will cut circles. We will cut circles with a conventional bottle top. Just take the bottle top and presses into the dough. You see these are the circles across the surface of the dough. It is fun to do this. Making cookies is great to do with the kids! I think they will enjoy it very much! And now, with a knife I lift the circles. You see the dough is quite fragile, so it must be handled carefully. I move the circles onto a tray, then these circles will form the cookies. [music] The dough that is left from trimming I gather again into a ball and I roll out. Make more circles until all the dough is used. Now I repeat to roll out the cocoa dough. Use the film again, to stretch the dough very easily and so it does not stick to the rolling pin. And now, again with the bottle top cut out circles. Now look at how many circles I have. While I cut circles the cocoa dough I have covered the white dough with cling film, so that the dough does not dry out. We can now set out the cookies directly on the baking sheet ready for baking. Look, I place a white dough circle then place a cocoa dough circle overlapping the white. I repeat white then cocoa in overlapping circles alternating. I get 8 circles in total. If you start with white, then finish with cocoa. And now look at what I do. I use my hands and start to fold them all circles. The lowest circle gently lift with a knife so that it is easier to move. And now look, at the bottom white circle. Raising it it should overlap on the next one. Yes! That's the way it turns out to be a flower! It is also possible to form a flower on the work surface. I spread circles of dough, gently fold into a circle and lift the lower piece of dough so it overlaps like this. Now, to make it easy to move or take a wide blade or a scraper like mine and lifts the dough and carry on baking. [music] Look how pretty and nice the cookies turn out! And now the cookies are shaped I transfer to a well preheated over to 180 degrees for about 12 minutes. Most importantly, be careful not to overcook them. The cookies have such pretty interesting colors. It would be a pity if the white pieces of dough become too brown. The first batch of cookie I now take out of the oven. Bake them for exactly 12 minutes. See how beautiful they have turned out! We should have a party with these cookies immediately. From the amount of dough we made we baked 35 beautiful cookies. My friends, of course, I will eat one of these beautiful cookies I can't resist! When I have these at my table they disappear instantly! Very crisp, very delicious! And I assure you, until all the cookies are eaten, no one will depart from the table. I also have here some unusual cookies with coconut instead of cocoa. I will eat coconut cookies and enjoy! I wish you all Bon Appetit! Please put your likes, write your comments below and share this new video with your friends on your social networks. Of course, subscribe to my channel ludaeasycook Positive cuisine if you haven't already. Bye, everyone! [music] [music]