- [Dave] There's a black directly to your right. Look at him. - Morpheus? - Sike! (laughter) It's Earl, I need your stapler. I can't find mine. (upbeat music) - I worked at a couple Parked cars at wrestling. I couldn't pay the rent and I was too That's when I met Kit. She was a hooker and - Okay. You gotta get the (laughter) (laughter) (sobbing) - Molly. Molly. Molly. - [Dave] Hey Molly, your husband's clothes (laughter) - Well they look better on Why don't you take them off? - Not a bad idea. - Hm. - You ready to get - [Molly] You bet your ass I am. It's my dumb ass husband - You ready to step - [Molly] Oh yeah. What do you say? - [Dave] Oh man. - [Man] Molly! - Oh, you know I see you. You know I, yeah I'm You, the ghost. I see you. You freaky man, You wanna watch? How this make you feel? (cheering) - [Man] Man, I could down the crack of that ass. (laughter) - [Man] I wish my look at the ass on that. - [Man] I'd like to have (laughter) - [Man] Damn, look (laughter) (laughter) - [Boy] I would put a (laughter) (applause) Damn! (laughter) (suspenseful music) (phone ringing) - Hello? - [Earl] Hello Neo, do - Morpheus? - [Earl] Yes. I've been looking for you Neo. I don't know if you're ready but unfortunately, you and They're coming for you Neo and I don't know what - Who's coming for me? - [Earl] Stand up (suspenseful music) - Shit! - [Earl] I can guide but you must do - Okay. - [Earl] The cubicle (suspenseful music) Go, now! (suspenseful music) Stay there. (suspenseful music) When I tell you, go to Stay as low as you can. Now! (farting sound) (laughter) (suspenseful music) There is a black man directly to your right. Look at him. - Morpheus? - Sike! (laughter) It's Earl, I need your stapler. I can't find mine. (laughter) Hello dumb dumb, do (laughter) - Dude, you totally got me. - Whoa. (laughter) (laughter) (applause) Please be seated. Hello America. As you all know, there's an speeding towards I'd like to take a to address the allegations (laughter) Firstly, I'd like to say are absolutely and 100% false. Secondly and most importantly, you mother (beep) disgust me! You god damn right, I said it. If you knew just I was sworn to secrecy too, you would buckle under - Mr. President? Like what? - How about this? I have here in my hand We've had this for 25 years. (gasping) Have a great weekend. (laughter) Did I shock you? Are you crazy yet? Well, I have someone Come on up here Paula. America, I'd like you to And here's Paula again, and We cloned these three bitches some 19 odd years ago. (laughter) Not only that, we added so that they could Hit it girls. Running through Wishing that you won't stop - That'll be enough, All right baby. Oh hold on, Paula. Here's the cure for AIDS. Sorry about last night. (laughter) You freaked out yet? Have I blown your mind? Or do you think you could Because if you're cocky and you think that I got some more Would you like to know - Yes. - Who killed Kennedy? - [Dave] Ready for Here it comes. Oswald killed Kennedy. That's right, Lee Harvey alone and by himself That's right, the bullet Magic does exist, we've known about this for I bet I blew your mind I'm really on a roll because the world's So I might as well introduce you to a good friend Bibble, come on up here. - [Man] Oh my god, (laughter) - America, this is Bibble. Bibble is a space creature in a galaxy called Nebulon Five. And he is solely responsible we've seen over the Cell phones, pagers, you might think it was the but anyone in the know, for shizzle, and all by Bibble 'cause only Bibble (laughter) Hey yo, Bibble is - Yah, yah. - I'm ready to get out of here. Okay, me and Bibble But before we go, there's no hope for There's no way to and you're all gonna die. Everyone except for me, who's been so kind to let me and I'm bringing those three Goodbye America. I hope you all die when the meteor Come on Bibble, let's - Yah, yah. (applause) (classical music) - What's with all - Oh, you know, Big boobs, bad back. - Yeah. All set? - I'm a little worried. I didn't have a so I had to wear a regular one. - You'll be fine, let's go. (drumming) Don't worry Shelia, I'm - Really? - Yeah. - [Man] Look at that lady. - [Man] Yeah, her bouncing around and everything. (laughter) - They're not talking about you. - Sweet Jesus, did you see - I'm gonna go in. - Shelia, it's okay. - It's not okay. (grunting) It's not okay! Stupid boobs! Nothing but an inconvenience. I wish I didn't have them. (gasps) - Careful what you wish for. - What? Who are you? - Who I am is not important. But what you said (laughter) Follow me. (magical sounds) It's easy, try it. - [Shelia] Hey, that's me! And that's Frank, the human resources He's always slobbering over me. - Not today. - [Shelia] So that's qualified for the promotion. - Yeah, well um, we'll see. - Why is he being so dismissive? What happened to my boobs? (laughter) - Oh, you just answered Them puppies is gone girl, - How did it go? - Not well. That woman was a Our clients will For Pete's sake, - [Man] So should I tell her she's not getting the promotion? - Yes, in fact tell that - Oh, I'm on it. - Ugh, are guys - No. - My guy friends (laughter) - Buy aka. - Oh, look it's Paul. He's always been so helpful Hey buddy. I have a painting I need Do you think you could help? - Wow, I didn't even I always thought I was 'cause you're constantly that I don't wanna do. You know what you need? A new set of titties And you'll be all set all right? (laughter) What's gotten into him? - Well, it's not as much as it is what's And by that of course, I mean - Paul wait, I still - He can't see you. - We'll see about that. (bell ringing) - He can't see you, but my god damn Shelia! - You men are the worst! - You're right. Oh my god Shelia, you are right. Women, the fairer sex, judge another woman by now would they? Mazel tov. (magical sounds) - Hey wait, those - Oh, were? - Where's Shelia? Wasn't she supposed - Oh, I was gonna have her am I getting bridesmaids starting in itty - Oh! (laughter) - I didn't even invite - Oh snap! (laughter) - How could she do that? - 'Cause your Besides Shelia, even girls (laughter) - I had no idea these - Oh, keep it real girl. Them things are life savers. Listen, I didn't but the fate of the the world rests on Shazam! (alarm beeping) - Hey, where do I know - He used to live You know, masturbating to you was all he had to live for. Once you took that and blew up the world. That's a lot Shelia. - [Shelia] No! No! No, I don't want just because of my - Aw, that's a You should have before you wished The world's gonna end Which is just enough But where would I I just, hey it's Shelia. (screaming) (birds chirping) - You've taught me a I'm never going to In fact, I might - All right. - You listen world, I've and I'm proud of them! (applause) Thanks Mister. You must be an - Angel? I ain't no angel, I'm a janitor. (keys jingling) - [Shelia] Then how did you - Girl, I am high on PCP. I just don't see how You smoked some, a little some? - No, who are you? - I'm just a (beep) Have a good day miss. (applause)