Christian is beside me, stretched out on a husband, shirtless and in cut off jeans - is the Western banking system. "Me neither." He grins, puts down his little and hang... in that way so his swim Mister Grey will see you now. [Title Music] Fifty Shades Freed is a 2018 film directed from the 2012 novel of the same name written the pen name E L James. Originally published online as Twilight fanficion title &quot;Master of the Universe 2&quot;, Freed is chunk of the trilogy that was somewhat conceived By January of 2011, about half way through had reached an agreement with Australian publisher of editing &quot;Master of the Universe Part 1&quot; Darker had begun. This would be publicly announced at the end the Universe 2&quot; in conjunction with the online that point being pulled from fanfiction.net I have some exciting news - well exciting I have been given the opportunity to publish doing that. The first book... yes there's more than be out at the end of May. I have pulled every thing except the last I know a great deal of you will be delighted You must tell me what you want... if you are I was actually able to find a copy of Master intact, which makes for a fascinating read, back into the text. Like, it's wild to see that at the exact plot thread is either dropped or resolved. The entire main plot is resolved in the next after that are mostly various characters explaining of the plot holes. And you'll be happy to know that the legacy fill in has been preserved in the film version. Sadly, they didn't preserve the parts where aged English woman. He smirks. "Eat," he orders. "You didn't Oh, bossy Fifty! "That's because you were being an arse." Mrs. Jones drops something that clatters into Christian seems oblivious to the noise. Ignoring "Arse or not - eat." his tone is serious. Now, the main history of Fifty Shades that on the pedigree of the films, the chain of about the parallel history to that. In early 2012, as the deal with Vintage was history of Fifty Shades from the internet. The remaining content on FiftyShades.com was light blog, takedown notifications were issued and Erika's lawyers contacted the Internet the relevant pages on fanfiction.net removed Not only did this eliminate the most obvious a tremendous amount of the parallel discussions of mouth. Assembling the timeline of basic events like or "when were the books first published?" happened only eight years ago. The information is crumbling, some lost to The history of Fifty Shades has effectively In interviews following publication Mitchell about the origin of Fifty Shades, generally origins of the story. Even up through 2017 the go-to narrative was she wrote a Twilight fanfiction and then wrote Fifty Shades of Grey. I read about something called fan fiction I thought &quot;well this is interesting&quot; and I So I wrote, I wrote a novel, a seventy thousand doing that I had the idea for what became Now, it's sort of a weird half truth because of Grey, before Master of the Universe, there Edward Cullen is filming his new movie in and works in the luxury hotel he is staying. It's not entirely clear which strictly came posted to Fanfiction.net under the handle and it is functionally a one hundred and forty told from Edward's perspective. The obsession with Audi, the classical music, much as had an impure thought before Edward fact that it's really just a loose re-telling It's revealing, because it sets out patterns throughout the rest of her work, elements or adaptations, the critical one being this: Christian is. This is part of why I find Safe Haven fascinating. it was Edward's, an Edward that is controlling, Through adaptations, though mutation from traits that stay intact. The screenwriter is replaced and given a mandate what's the thing that survives the process? Dumbass arguments about an email address, concessions out of people in a way that improves are doing his bidding. I tried emailing you. It bounced. We talked a bunch in the last video about but I didn't really talk about how. The leverage that she kept using on the set her too much she would withdraw support and in the context of a film like Fifty Shades It's the kind of movie that relies very the word of mouth, more than on a general Marketing wise it was 100% banking on being as opposed to the adaptation of a good story. With this in mind it ends up being really scenes extras for Darker and the selling point and James Foley, is "they get along with He's incredibly experienced and he has a, under him. And we met and we just hit it off. And Niall, who's actually Erika's husband, good thing for us as producers because he these books being written. He did a really fantastic job of boiling everything and fan moments that would be expected. He kinda went off and did his thing and then think?&quot; and I'd go &quot;oh this this this&quot; and that's probably a good thing. And just from watching the on-set interactions much just directing the movie it's obvious would take her ball and go home, so they found director in James Foley. It's also fascinating how Grey's behind with Johnson and Dornan about the sex scenes, trust they put in director Sam Taylor-Johnson, a head space they could be in and work in, out on the press junket talking about doing Do you guys have a pre-game ritual before Shot of whisky, and, yeah. He does push ups On the lighter side of that subject, I'm where Dakota Johnson was drinking to get through from Darker. The tell to me is that Dakota Who did this to you? So one of the things that really stood out I was researching and assembling this whole over the movies the differences became more the smaller things became more and more identifiable. This is how e first see him. Very structured, The next he takes her on this small coffee the heart area, but it's a little more open, also worn with blue jeans. It's open, it's one level, it's a different square. And so in subtle ways we find him part of her life. Erika was very keen that movies two and three books and to the sense of the books and to Freed is basically a low budget James Bond bunch of wild gadgets, a car chase, a boat instead a gadget, a car going over the speed Anyway, the movie opens with a wedding montage the sickly green under-tone that's been So, green is very common in nature, but it's ambiance is unnatural and off-putting, so overtone, is, in cinematic language, shorthand or wrong. It's why The Matrix is tinted is green, and why the first Twilight movie decides to stay in Forks. Also the fact that it is unnatural makes it a movie and the lighting looks tinted green it didn't just happen to look like that. Given that Freed is going to be more of a to see green used as an undertone, and it the film to set the mood. It makes sense when Jack Hyde is breaking to plan a fire bomb in the server room, but in a wedding scene when that wedding is supposed to be the emotional high before anything has And as a visual shorthand its use is really some don't, and there's nowhere else in is in the wedding. Alright, so, we're thirty seconds into the Anyway, the rest of the title montage is all settle on the beach with Ana asking Christian Could you put this on my back? Take off the whole thing. Not a chance. you're showing plenty as it I am wearing more than any woman here. You want to be ogled by every guy on the beach? To my disappointment they decided to skip image conscious billionaire, lounging at the Ladies. Christian leaves to have a swim, and Ana removes Cutting away from that, a mysterious stranger into a disguise, hacks the electronic lock Wait for it. Christian and Ana argue again about Ana taking her that there might be paparazzi around, always being justified for pushing Ana around. of the way of the bike. Then the argument ends and they go back to Christian's assistant Ros calls and informs It totally exploded, uh, you know, over there. Totally fried the servers. Lots of damage. over there. Anyway it's Jack Hyde. Oh my god, that's Jack. Oh and also the helicopter crash was totally I got a report from the FAA, they don't think they said it looks like sabotage. Jack Hyde, fiction editor, sabotaged Christian's The day after Jack Hyde, fiction editor, was Hyde, fiction editor, sabotaged a helicopter. Ana and Christian cut their honeymoon short, has hired, and get into a petty argument about threads for the movie. Don't worry, it gets worse. Ana goes to work where she finds out that promotion has been made permanent and the resentful of the whole situation. I mean, yeah. By the way, Liz is the head of human resources movie as the woman who clearly knew Jack was time with him in a social capacity. Ana's assistant Hannah comes in and the two from Anastasia Steel to Anastasia Grey and The scene wraps up and cuts to Ana taking when Christian comes storming into the office, that she's cheating with her client, then to Anastasia Grey at publishing company dot I tried email you. It bounced. There's no and we're going to talk about lighting. Now, this whole point is incredibly petty, set between the two scenes is what really It isn't just later the same day, it's Ana goes to work, the sun streaming through a coffee break Christian is standing in her is a sham because she has been back to work yet changed her email address! To this compelling argument Ana caves pretty more or less accepted that her life largely for him, and his face lights up with just Just a reminder, this isn't even an argument purely about her changing her professional Also it will never come up again. There's no future complication as a result even become petty ammunition in a future argument. Ana says she'll think about it, Christian's me a petty win" and just like the bathing After work Christian drives Ana out to the I didn't even mention this in the previous day on his boat Ana saw this house on the I love that house" and now Christian is like" and then Christian's architect comes to bulldoze the house" and Christian is I bought for my wife because she said that If that sounds like bizarro whiplash that's into a wealth monster, because the architect, blondes in Fifty Shades are all homewreckers the vicarious enjoyment of Erika Mitchell Oh, and this is a good place for a reminder hired Gia specifically because she's a blonde mother, who he refers to as The Crack Whore, her sexually in an act of displaced revenge. Anyway, Christian lets Ana drive home and in a parking lot. Back home their security tells them the driver finds Leila's gun, still loaded, in Christian's I'll get rid of it. A whole bunch of nothing happens until Ana Christian told her to go straight home, and broken into their apartment, attacks her with he's taken down by her new security guards. Better restrain him. I don't have anything. We do. I mean, we, I can find something. Alright, that line is kinda funny. Like, it's Also because this detail is hilarious I want happen, Jack doesn't take Ana captive at Instead Ana gets home from the bar and the while she was gone and her security team has Everything exciting already happened off screen. See, that's what happens when you don't Ana is talking with the police who tell her saying "you owe me a life" and assure Alright, then there's three scenes where happy, then Ana gets home from work and Christian her with orgasm denial in revenge for saying with Kate, and it escalates to the point that Now, okay, there's a bit to unravel here. First I'm going to refer back to what I okay, from a narrative perspective, if Christian arises out of it needs to go somewhere. The issue is that despite the fact that Ana still pivots to be about Christian's manpain And with that violation of trust out of the minutes while Ana and the gang piss off to Wait, the bikini, the email address, the attempt the fact that she was attacked at knife point almost like there's a pattern of Christian extravagant gifts and/or sex in lieu of apologizing. When they get back Detective Clark tells Ana camera planting a bomb, stole a vehicle, and probably going to get bail because he's totally didn't try to molest her, so extenuating Ana goes to the courthouse for his bail hearing sets bail at half a million dollars because Or, well, his first slate of multiple offences and attempted kidnapping. But who's keeping Ana immediately runs to the bathroom and throws where Ana's gynecologist tells her that hasn't taken her birth control since the At dinner Ana tells Christian that she's bad, I don't want a baby right now" and want a baby right now, either" and even them are totally on the same page vis a vis Christian storms off, eventually coming home he slurs about his fear that Ana will choose As Ana is putting his stuff away he gets a tonight, I'm here for you, anytime." which playroom. The next morning Christian is busy organizing Ana comes downstairs. This begins a prolonged for most of it. Like, it's just an entire scene of dialogue It's nudity that's pointless to the point Alright, I don't know how to segue this, somehow even more abrupt than it actually call from Mia EXCEPT IT'S JACK HYDE AND HE WANTS FIVE HE'S GOING TO KILL MIA. So... I don't... I don't know what Jack's He's out on bail for a bunch of really serious it's not like he's some anonymous dude just disappear. And he doesn't know this, but Christian much, so killing Mia would maybe make Christian add murder to Jack's already substantial going to prison for. I dunno, we'll talk more about Jack's In the meantime Ana goes home, changes into bag, the chequebook, and grabs Leila's gun, several weeks ago. I'll get rid of it. Hey, isn't it weird how whenever Ana breaks come straight home after work" or "I won't deemed worthy of derision and punishment, rid of a loaded handgun that he keeps in an because it totally turned out Ana needed a Anyway, now that she's armed and dangerous At the bank Ana, dressed in a hoodie and clearly dollars in cash from the joint account. Banks don't carry that much cash on hand, be here all day. The bank manager, Troy Whelan, calls Christian asks to speak to Ana in private. After their conversation a sobbing Ana gives to give her the money. Despite this being a situation built entirely and his phone, and helps her take the money into an SUV being driven by a person who looks Oh, and the driver is Liz. You know, the head who got into the high speed car chase through So Christian has figured out that something the cops, and he's tracking Ana's cell everyone's converging on the spot where Jack beats Ana up and kicks her in the stomach, the police arrive and that's it. The entire standoff resolves in about 45 seconds. From there it's just a slow roll downhill Christian wants a baby now, and the baby's and stuff sort of I guess. Christian is shocked because he realizes that and being a pervert middle manager is that turned it into billions, but this rare moment If I'd been left in the system who knows how You're a man of honour. And you treat people I'll get rid of it. You're showing plenty as it is. I get off on punishing women, women who look like your mother I tried emailing you. It bounced. There's And you treat people well. Turns out Jack and Christian were in the same and resents Christian and we'll talk about Ana and Christian visit the gave of Christian's The Crack Whore. The crack whore used to let me play with her hair. I think. I don't know if it's a memory or a dream. Whoa! His birth mom. There's a montage of all the highlights really just calls attention to the fact that Then the movie fake ends with Ana setting in the movies that Christian's ratty dom than just being an environmental detail, so them out on the bed is kinda comical. Christian remarks that Ana is topping from about a lot in a bit, and fade to black for happy and rich and Ana's pregnant with their The. End. Alright, get a drink, we'll be right back. This episode was brought to you by tap water. This is, by far, the most literal adaptation the Universe 2 being somewhat more self contained There's a bunch of stuff, but the main one line because I've been wanting to talk about Christian to Ana "I believe you're topping Flashback time! Mitchell also has an awkward habit of juxtaposing commentary from Anastasia. Ana is seemingly and naive to the point of farce, a thread of the trilogy. "You know, you're topping from the bottom," "What?" I don't understand what he's If you've been following along with the to be insufferable and frustrating that's a candle to the books. Mitchell as a writer All the way up to the final pages of the book that she has gotten herself into. So this change, having Ana implicitly acknowledge in control here, I like it. I wish it were One of my favourite changes from the book, has to be the ending with Christian's mom's Like, this is such a natural end point for called Fifty Shades Freed. Christian is Fifty in her inner monologue, so the title of the where, ostensibly, Christian finally gets Except, he doesn't. So, in Darker, at the mid point of the book, breakthrough where he no longer feels compelled at least as far as physical violence is concerned So after that the big hangups would be his which is tied in with his resentment of his Alright, in this book he resolves one of these, hangups about being afraid the baby will split to devote all her energy to managing his emotions But he's still petty and controlling. Just argument and the went-out-drinking-with-Kate None of that comes back, none of it is resolved, But it's the other one that's just baffling. The first time Christian refers to his mother whore, and the last time he refers to her the crack whore. "How do you feel about that?" I whisper. He frowns. "About having no living relatives? whore..." he shakes his head in disgust. So why is it that the film version is able the originals weren't? The answer is that Erika Mitchell just doesn't framing, since Ana also refers to Christian's This is confusing - I'm his wife, not I'm not the crack whore who was his mother. Change of pace, let's disassemble Jack's going to go all the way back to childhood. Jack Hyde spends his youth in the foster care Christian is put into the same home as him or simply ages out but either way he's able to Seattle where he gets a job as the fiction He also becomes a sex pervert and rapist who tapes as leverage. Then one day he hires a new assistant named on the job they go out to a bar where he meets some wheels spinning in Jack's head. The next night he infiltrates an exclusive The following Tuesday he pins Anastasia against gets kneed in the balls and beaten up by her he's fired because Christian has all but Two days later he sabotages Christian's in the forest near Mount Saint Helens, but them celebrate Christian's birthday from Two months later he breaks into Christian files before firebombing the servers. He then contacts Liz and uses the threat of a car chase with Christian and Ana from the What the point of this was remains unknown A week and a half after the bombing he steals fake license plates, and uses the van and the elevator at Escala which gives him access with a kitchen knife until Ana comes home. but is incapacitated by her personal security the van that says "you owe me a life". A few weeks later he is granted bail set at The next day Jack is released from custody Christian's sister Mia and tries to ransom when Ana shoots him in the leg with a gun So. It's maybe a little weird and pointless to character, though it's just as weird that assured that, no, he actually already hated and everything with Ana is basically pure This is why the baby plotline feels so weird: really want anything. The last thing she wanted her a publishing company. Since then she's Part of what makes a thriller great is watching has a plan that's complicated and maybe deep satisfaction from watching it all fall This... is not that. Jack's scheme is less of a plan and more good cliffhangers for a serial fanfiction The longer you think about it the worse it are just absurd on their own merits. A woman speed chase through traffic for no discernible helicopter and firebombs a server after stealing in their own right. Now, if you want to talk about one of the has addressed a problem in their writing not parts of the text but by explaining things The ultimate antagonist of the Fifty Shades all of it, is a man named Linc, or Mister about five times total, depending on how you so superfluous to the story that he isn't An added scene at the end of the unrated cut so the movies eventually gave him a first Even in the extended version he's only in and one where he's arrested. And you know what, I'm hard pressed to decide that amounts to "oh yeah, this guy, uh, all, because... uh... because reasons. And to destroy Christian's life for completely Or having an epilogue that leaves you with would have the means, skill, and opportunity precise way such that it would still work infiltrate the high security areas of an office billionaire to plant a James Bond style bomb, into the home of aforementioned billionaire and pay half a million dollars in bail. If you think I'm being a little thin with Basically Linc found out about Christian's But also he was abusing her, so they were look, there's that thread again where people joy. But that's it. That is the sum total of And, again, the only reason that the books first place is because Mitchell needed to to both get and pay bail when he's been and entering, AND attempted kidnapping. The funny thing is that this was really easy Just make Elena the actual villain. From a filmmaking perspective this movie just because it's not like they were adapting was written. The books were done. You could read the whole thing and know how of ending Fifty Shades Darker on the same note that Mitchell did when she finished Master I don't know why they didn't make that adaptation and then cut it for something just The only answer I can posit is that reading So, keep in mind that Christian's framing taken as true or superior or justified. Christian consistently goes to bat for Elena. Whenever Ana does get to voice some criticism the final landing point in the book is Christian a middle aged woman and a fifteen year old wrong, and they'd still be friends but Ana let that friendship go. It's messed up. In conclusion, Fifty Shades of Grey is a land maize. It's corny, is what I'm saying. The books are, and remain a contentious piece between kink and abuse, replicating and reinforcing The movies are a nominal thematic improvement, and some light plot restructuring, the movies in turn inherit almost all the original structural While the first movie shows a surprising amount and third are notably devoid of creative energy, seem irritated to still be there. Anyway, the movie denouements with a montage, pantheon of "we didn't know quite how thing is that Twilight Saga Breaking Dawn so Fifty Shades has to end with a musical To quote fellow critic Jenny Nicholson "At least in Twilight those movies escalated how far they've come!" In this one they're But you know what, I'm going to disagree Look at how far we've all come. I'm his wife, not his sub Not some company he's acquired I'm not the crack whore who was his mother You know, you're topping from the bottom He murmurs against my lips I don't understand what he's talking about Charlie Tango, The safest in its class Dios mio! Double crap, me and my two left feet! Now, there is one part of the whole fanfiction up to this point, and that's the straight of Twilight told from Edward's perspective some test chapters were leaked to the internet. During the writing of Master of the Universe bonus content on her website, including a told from Edward's point of view. One of these was included at the end of Fifty 2 and 3 of Fifty Shades of Grey, but from In June 2015 Grey: Fifty Shades of Grey from Now, this actually poses as an interesting being developed in parallel to the first film, Conceptually re-telling the story from Christian's and incorporate criticisms, maybe even going that didn't work. Most interestingly, since it is now Christian to re-characterize Christian via his internal Jamie Dornan's performance of the character from a strict reading of the originals. It's essentially a third chance to adapt her I mean, surely it would be comical if a movie the abusive monster of Christian Grey into then the next book just doubled down on all not just compulsion in his actions but malice Clearly, sensibly, Erika Mitchell is going of a character who is in conflict with his "I'm not knowledgeable, Anastasia, I just more?" I nod towards the bottle on the table. I fetch the champagne and refill her cup. plying her with alcohol. Nope! [Charlie Tango]