Hey there guys. Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video we're gonna be looking at The Basics of Absorption Chillers and learning how they work. Now an absorption chiller is because it doesn't have a compressor. Instead it uses heat to generate cooling. Now that might seem a little By the end of this video and how that works. Another interesting point to is that they don't use such as R134 A or R22, instead they use water as a refrigerant. And this water is mixed or lithium bromide. Lithium bromide is the more common version and that's because it's So we're gonna be lithium bromide type chillers But essentially they are very similar. Now if this is a subject then I highly encourage you and we've got other videos explaining how water-cooled chillers work as well as air-cooled chillers. So do check out some of these videos. So just before we go how the inside of an I need you to want to understand for the basic operation of how The first point is that it changes states from liquid to vapor. Now the water boils at under different pressures. If you increase the pressure then the water boils at and if you decrease the pressure then water boils at For example, we're used the water boiling at around 100 degrees Celsius, and that's because we're which is around 101kPa or 14.7psi. But that is only because all the weight of the atmosphere above us, all the weight of the If we went higher up into the atmosphere, say to the top of Mount Everest where the atmosphere is much thinner, then we would see water would boil at around 70 degrees Celsius, And that's because the is around 34kPa/ 4.9psi. And that is because there is less air or atmosphere weighing down on the water. So when the absorption and the absorber chamber, we're gonna have a chamber pressure, a very, very low pressure So we're gonna have a low or which is about 0.12psia. And at that pressure the water will boil around 4.5 degrees Celsius Now if you pass the steam over a pipe containing cold water, then the steam will over into that pipe and and the steam will then turn So throughout the absorption chiller, we are gonna be boiling the water to create it into a steam and turning it back into a liquid. And you'll see why that The second thing to understand is that lithium bromide is and salt is attracted to water moisture. It literally pulls these out of the air and is attracted So if we spray lithium bromide then the two will be attracted The third point to and lithium bromide are mixed together, you can separate them So as you apply heat to this, the two will separate where will become heavier and and come towards the bottom and all the water vapor will boil off and head upwards to become So you can separate the two Okay, so now that we know the very basics of what's happening inside, let's look at the main So in the top chamber we'll and the generator. In the lower half of the chiller, we'll always have the and then on the side down, down below, near the bottom, we'll The heat exchanger is just there to improve the efficiency of the system. So it will transfer heat that's into the liquid, which is And we'll see that in just a moment. So first of all, a mixture and 40% water is pumped from the absorber through the heat exchanger and then rises up and pours at the top of the chiller. Now this line is often referred and that is because the lithium bromide is mixed with the water, The generator then fills of lithium bromide and Next heat is added to the reservoir containing the lithium bromide and water. And this will begin the separation process that we saw earlier. And this heat is using and will typically come from a hot water or steam that's being pushed of tubes inside the generator. The heat from this hot water or steam causes lithium bromide and water to separate all the water and will fill the condenser with a hot water vapor or steam. Then the heavy lithium bromide particles will sink to the bottom and This hot liquid flows where it transfers its heat running in counterflow. Once the concentrated has cooled down, it makes where it is sprayed onto the chamber and will mix with the water before again being pumped to the generator to repeat the loop, but we will look at in just a minute. Next we want to condense in the condenser to bring So we pass water in a sealed and circulate it around where it will be able that it collects. The temperature of the cooling tower water is enough to cause the hot water vapor to condense into a liquid with the surface of the pipe. So it will rain down and just below, just here. Once it collects in the tray, it will start to flow and will be sprayed into the chamber. The amount of water that can flow is restricted by a small Now the evaporator, as is a very low pressure. It's almost near a vacuum condition. Now this sudden change in pressure will cause that water that's and drop in temperature into a cold water of around just four degrees Celsius, maybe 40 degrees Fahrenheit. The chilled water loop then bringing all the unwanted which was collected from the AHUs and the fan coil units, et cetera. So this cold condensed water will spray over the chilled water tubes and cover the surface of the tube with a thin film of cold water. The chilled water will enter at around 12 degrees Celsius, and this will transfer it's thermal energy its heat all the unwanted It will transfer that and into the low temperature water film which was sprayed across the outside of the chilled water tubes. Remember the two waters never mix. They're always kept separate and they are separated by the pipe wall. As this heat transfers into the water on the outside of the tubes this outer water will or water vapor due to the As it evaporates, it carries away all the unwanted heat with it. And remember earlier we at lower temperatures under low pressure, so the chilled water all the unwanted heat and by it should be around seven degrees Celsius, which is approximately and this water is now ready to be pumped around the building again and bring it back to Another loop will recirculate any water that missed the tubes and or water vapor and this to the top of the evaporator and sprayed again and again and again until all of it evaporates into steam. All of this water that's evaporating into water vapor and steam will build up and collect in around and this water vapor or and pulled towards the strong being sprayed in the absorber, The attraction is so strong that water particles flow by themselves straight to the absorber to be together with the This strong almost magnetic attraction between the water particles and the lithium bromide particles is what causes the vacuum in the chamber. The lithium bromide attraction they will pull the water and it will all mix together. The stronger the concentration the stronger the attraction When the two fluids come in contact, they generate a little heat. And this as well as the heat collected from the chilled water So that is why the also passes through here to and the cooling tower any of the residual water vapor particles or the lithium bromide particles and turn it back into a liquid. And once this has occurred, the mixture of lithium bromide and water is collected at the bottom of the tank in the bottom of the absorber and it is now ready to be again to repeat the entire cycle. So there you have it. That's the basics. The basic operation of how And that is the end of this video. So thanks for watching. I hope this has helped you. Please don't forget to And if you have any comments, leave me in the comment section below. Also, don't forget to theengineeringmindset.com and once again, thanks