Hello, and welcome to Crash Course Astronomy! taking you on a guided tour of the entire Over the course of this series we'll explore particles, and even the eventual fate of the But before we step into space, let's take There are lots of definitions of science, and a method of how we learned that knowledge. Science tells us that stuff we know may not wrong. We need to watch the Universe, see doing what it's doing, and then try to think That last part is important. Science must to get to the bottom of things. Understanding that our understanding might out the ways we may be mistaken is the only to the truth, or at least the nearest approximation Science learns. We meander a bit as we use to understanding reality, and that is the Whether you know it or not, you're soaking in science. You're a primate. You have mass. Mitochondria in your cells are generating energy. Presumably, But astronomy is different. It's still science, of Because of astronomy, I know we're standing 13,000 kilometers across, with a fuzzy atmosphere field that protects us from the onslaught km away, which is also flooding space with the planets, asteroids, dust, and comets, Oort Cloud, into interstellar space, past gas clouds and dust lanes in a gigantic spiral black hole in its center, and is surrounded matter and dwarf galaxies, some of which it's galaxies in our Local Group like Andromeda of the Virgo galaxy cluster, which is part of many other gigantic structures that stretch which is 90-billion light years across and yesterday due to mysterious dark energy, and larger multiverse that extends forever both See? Astronomy puts you in your place. But what exactly is astronomy? This isn't I was a kid, it was easy: Astronomy is the stars, galaxies, and stuff like that. But Take, for example, Mars. When I haul my 'scope Mars, that's astronomy, right? Of course! aren't doing astronomy, surely. They're everything but astronomy! So nowadays, what's astronomy? I'd say it's branched out quite a bit from there. are fuzzy... a theme I'll be hitting on like firm, delineated boundaries between things, And that brings us to our first edition of This week's topic: Astronomers! Who are I used to look through telescopes for a living, detectors strapped onto them. But now I talk and relegate my viewing to my personal backyard astronomer, so that should give you an idea that In fact, when I worked on Hubble Space Telescope, I coded in the language used by the folks was due to launch into space and be installed Once the data from that camera are taken and them. Do the observations fit the physical form, or the way gas flows through space? because that's how we test our hypotheses. an astrophysicist. Of course, those telescopes and detectors to design and build them and technicians to Most astronomers don't actually use the trained in their specific use does that for Some of those instruments go into space, and We need astronomers and engineers and And then, at the end of all this, we need professors, writers, video makers, even artists. So I'll tell you what: If you have an interest the stars, if you crave to understand what's am I to say you're not an astronomer? However you define astronomy, humans have we've been humans. ball in the sky, and how it lit everything it was gone. The other, fainter glowy thing up the night. They probably took that sort noticed that when certain stars appeared in and the days longer, and when other stars daytime shorten. And when humans settled down, discovered agriculture, in the sky would have had an even greater and when to harvest. The cycles in the sky became pretty important. gods up there, looking down on us weak and Surely if the stars tell us when to plant, length of the day, they control our lives Astrology literally means "study of the science became a formal method of studying good name, and now we're stuck with "astronomy," That's not really what we do! But what the now it's pretty well understood that astronomy Millennia ago, astrology was as close to science science: astrologers observed the skies, made and then those people would provide evidence The thing is, it really didn't; the fault stars. People tend to remember the hits and which is why they sometimes sit in casinos proven to be nothing more than a method for But astrology led to people to really study led to a more rigorous understanding of how It wasn't overnight, of course. This took keen observers built all sorts of odd and and in fact it was before the telescope was in astronomy took place. It is patently obvious that the ground you the skies turn above us. The sun rises, the themselves wheel around the sky at night. sky is what is actually moving. makes perfect sense that all the objects in to a series of nested spheres, some of which spin once per day. The stars may just be holes in the Sounds silly to you, doesn't it? Well, here's the thing: If you don't have cosmos works, this whole multiple-shells-of-things-in- a lot of what's going on over your head, and Ptolemy, then by god it was good enough by the major religions of the time, so maybe don't think about it too hard. But a few centuries ago things changed. Although and astronomer Copernicus came up with the system, not the Earth. His ideas had problems, it did an incrementally better job than geocentrism. And then along came Tycho Brahe and Johannes even better. Then Isaac Newton - oh, Newton understand the way objects moved in space. got better, and our understanding grew. Applied the use of telescopes was another. the way, but made them better; Newton invented and we've run with the idea from there. Then, about a century or so ago, came another much fainter objects on glass plates sprayed stars otherwise invisible to us, details in galaxies, And then in the latter half of the last century, even more sensitive than film. We could use and our knowledge leaped again. When these around the Earth - where our roiling and boiling - we began yet another revolution. And where are we now? We've come such a long way! What questions not have dared, what statements made with Think on this: The lights in the sky are stars! looking for life on alien planets seriously, galaxy is one of a hundred billion others. Stars explode, and when they do they create the calcium in our bones, the phosphorus that kind of star in the Universe is so faint you system is filled to overflowing with worlds Nature has more imagination than we do. It too, we big-brained apes. We've learned So, with that, I think we're ready. Let's Today you learned what astronomy is, and that telescopes, but include mathematicians, engineers, We also wrapped up with a quick history of from ancient observers to the Hubble Space Crash Course is produced in association with PBS Digital Studios. This episode was written by me, Phil Plait. and our consultant is Dr. Michelle Thaller. Michael Aranda, and the graphics team is Thought