Thank you for providing us this and teaching us how I've done some pretty crazy things but this is the craziest Bufo can help you deconstruct all the thoughts that are Sorry. I'm sorry. It's a cycle. How aware were you of what you under the effects of bufo? You're totally unaware of your body. When I took the hit, my soul left That felt like being hit There's no going back. Taking bufo alvarius or speed the milked poison of the Sonoran Known for instilling it's considered the most powerful And it's increasingly being touted and addiction. This should be for everyone because Now, growing numbers of psychedelic where bufo ceremonies are legal, in search of a life changing experience. Each journey I just leave and It became the most significant I have had in my entire life. But for some, the experience This should not be administered It did the opposite of help. I would never ever want to experience that ever again. What's more, accusations against and accidental deaths have People are taking advantage of women, taking advantage of the medicines. We're seeing so often in Watch out for this guy. Last high As its lure grows, I'm here whether taking bufo is really We're about to arrive at which is basically where the hard the form of billboards Toad ceremony. Inside, a shaman or give you the world's most powerful and then you're back out within an hour. Hello. How's it going? Are you Dr. Alvarius? Matt. Good to meet you. We can go straight in Who's this? Ah, it's Mike Tyson with Dr. Gerry. He's one of the pioneers of like 15 years ago he started. Doctor Gerry. Doctor Gerry has popularized The medicine does ego death. Picking up such fans as Mike Tyson. This guy took me to heaven and back, man. He took me somewhere I've He sounds like someone Yes, absolutely. And how many people can Up to 12 bufo sessions a day, One And how much does it cost for one? 3,000 pesos. Is it a profitable industry? Yes, I think everyone What kind of qualifications do you There's not much theory to learn. It's just to serve enough and to And where does the bufo happen? Bufo we do in the big teepee there. Can I have a look inside? Sure. Let's get in. Clients book this teepee for an hour, but an average bufo trip lasts So you've come here to do bufo. This is an incredible And this is my second time coming What are you expecting is going to happen? Each journey, I just leave My depression has helped a lot. I'm kind of able to deal with things So that's what I'm expecting, So did you have clinical depression? And were you medicated for that? When you first did bufo, I stopped it before the ceremony because you're supposed to stop and I did then. Did you go cold turkey? Pretty much, yeah. Are you nervous at all I was nervous the first time for I know exactly what to expect, Bufo is 10 to 20 times so it's no surprise Victoria Hey. How are you? I just became one with the earth and this amazing light And it just reminded me like it's If I thought I had lost it. But the light is still there And I'm just so full of And can you try and describe Parts of it was very much Like if you can think of the colors. When you can hear colors and it's like you become one And that's how I felt and I felt the Wow. I kind of want what she had, you So if I can get that, that Many people seek bufo as a remedy to their mental You might think that places on those who administer it, but their approach is So there's no customer that Only if they have some serious, like Not if they had schizophrenia? Yeah, even schizophrenia. I don't think it's an ... it absolutely What about if they're The addiction of these antidepressants Would you tell them to stop Yeah, if they can do it, it's advisable to stop using Isn't it a little bit dangerous just Yeah, if you are suicidal, maybe you It can be lethal to mix But going cold turkey without dangerous, as is administering such a powerful psychedelic to people My preconception about taking as ayahuasca, which this is, is there's a shaman, there's probably This is next door to a Burger King. Away from the high street, there are freelance shamans the drug in more natural settings. This practice, the way I serve it a course or a training Amin was a corporate banker from so profoundly by bufo that he left When you're in the world's most powerful what does that feel like for you? Man, it's the most fulfilling Today, one of his clients is taking Bufo, I definitely believe that it can help you deconstruct all the thoughts that are The effects of bufo on her But internally, a psychedelic as her ego begins to leave her body. How aware were you of what you were the effects of bufo? Like not not at all. Yeah, Like not, not, You were sort of like, giggling Almost like a happy baby. In fact, at one point, you I did. I felt like a happy baby. At one point you said, Gracias Pacha Mama. Pacha Mama is Mother Earth. And I think I felt really held in that I wasn't going to fall through Mother Earth provides everything Ansley had a positive experience and But putting yourself in such Unfortunately, there are a lot of or it's just transactional. People drowning, people, heart or taking other medications a serotoninergic syndrome and People get really sick. Right, OK. And what kind of sick? Like vomiting, fever, chills. You know, like their bodies I guess you really have because they're administering Yeah, I think you're totally And, like, if someone, yeah, I mean, if someone I wouldn't be able to do Have there been any instances Yeah, a lot of facilitators, I know that they use medicines to or even brainwash them. Shannon knows how easy it is a fake healer. There are so many vulnerable and it's really easy to take A lot of the tactics, it's You know, I can see how I can see that, you know, this And if you come and work and if we do these things together, then absolutely you're going the life that you want to live. And what's tough is that there's so much shame already and then you layer psychedelics into And I feel like it just and there's even more guilt maybe did I bring this do I want to talk about these things? And people come here and sometimes you stumble It's pretty obvious that bufo is but also that the people who they're interacting with people There's one shaman in particular Who's this? How did you first find out It was watching a Mike Tracy had an experience with Doctor on his mental health. It took me six months to recover. I'd fall asleep. Then I'd wake up because this giant portal thing would open up, you know and vibrate in front of me. I couldn't sleep. I was having panic attacks all day long. My mind was so fractured, like I couldn't drive anywhere. I couldn't do anything. That fear from that bufo experience didn't go away. A series of allegations against in an open letter in 2019. These include lack of aftercare, We've even heard allegations that his care and was brought My soul left my body. My heart stopped. He had to do CPR. I feel like I died. We've managed to get the shores of Lake Bacalar a remote island to witness Gerry? Matt, good to meet you. He has agreed to answer the allegations against him, but not in front of his clients. Adam, nice to meet you. So the people here, are they all That is correct. What kinds of reasons are they They can say for themselves, no? In my personal life, my daily life, I do deal with a great so I'm just looking to step outside I just have at least a reference I can really make some I'm hoping just to continue my I feel like the breakthrough, the near-death experience you sort to help in that way. To heal our soul and heal our So it's a full combination And what's your connection to Gerry? I'm his wife. You're his wife? I'm his wife, yes. I have done it with Gerry before. For the first time six years ago, I but it was exactly what I needed. How many milligrams do I'm giving around 90 to 100mg. It's the minimum effective dose to You're not supposed to be here. Who's gonna go first? Oh, yeah, I'll go first. Adam is a bufo enthusiast and is here today hoping to It looks like his soul is the snooze button on an alarm Pacha Mama, Pacha Mama. Pacha Mama, Pacha Mama. After 20 minutes, he's back. Back to reality. If you think that psychedelics his next comment may surprise you. Give all the credit to Ayn Rand. One of my goals is to live 200 years and I really believe bio-medicines While it's so far unclear if Adam's to immortality, he reported that Can you get under my arms? Gerry's next client is 25 year old Oh, you missed the coochie cleansing. but that was actually very important. Why is it important to have Because this is my power center and it's what makes me, me. I hope to have a very orgasmic Spirit guides. Allowing me to be a clear, open light, wisdom. Healing energies Peace on Earth begins today, and Two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. Simply hold it over your Seven, six, five, four, three, two. Oh. As soon as Jordan inhales Doctor Gerry's she loses total control of her body. The teeth chattering. Well, when the medicine comes in, manifests as a small jittery ascends all the way to the head. Very important not to confuse because a lot of people are like, No, it's completely normal. It's the ascension of the medicine Oh, yes. It's easy to see how for people with intense reactions Oh. I need help. I need help. - You're safe. No, I need help. - Clarity is on the way. Yes. Yes, it is. - Yes. - Good girl, yes, yes. Sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I don't know how to let go. In the middle of it all, Jordan Can I have some more? Or should I just ... You want round 2? Is that O.K? Let's ask the Doctor. Dr Gerry. She would like another. No, she had a huge process right now. She asked for another one, No. She had a process, clearly. So if we give her another, then she would have a high risk A lot of constant reactivations and stuff. Yes. Okay. So it's important to know Sorry. Minutes later, she slips I don't know how to let go. She resisted the initial phase. When you fully relax eventually then the toad takes you for a second spin. Which is the case right now. I thought I was done. But coming back from Thought I was done. Jordan's experience outwardly but when it stopped, she Had she achieved inner peace, or was she happy because the So what happens next for her? Well, she has a high chance of Does she have a support network that the next few days while Absolutely. We're going to be in contact But no, she had a beautiful process. I'm really happy with her process. She did it. The third person who's going to do bufo floating in the water. Let's hope he doesn't have a The water holds the secret When we connect to the a higher state of consciousness. Your mind and your body lets I am you. And you are me. Hello. Long time no see. Yeah, it was about 20 minutes. Way longer than I thought. Was there any particular trauma coming up? I think losing my father When I was nine, he passed away. He And I thought I was I thought And I think I just tell myself that And I'm really not. I don't know if you were aware, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Do you know So I feel that I was still very much and I was just apologizing for a pattern that I feel I do And then I beat myself up. But I think that's the thing with trying so hard. It's a cycle. But it's not about being perfect the performance or trying to, like, say what you think people want So I was just apologizing, I think, At one point. I think you and wanted it to stop. Oh, no, no. If anything, I wanted more because take it to another level. But I think there's a And I think that healing is the beginning. Dr. Gerry's clients today seem Yes. But some of his past customers far worse. There was no help. He actually told me to eat a cheeseburger, take Xanax and take a cold shower. One even claimed that she had I started on the bed and And then I woke up on the floor like looking kind of panicked. We contacted several of the accusers the 2019 Open Letter, but none of for the sexual assault allegations Although one woman said she woke up There was a letter Absolutely. What's the story with that? The allegations of rape and All of my organizers, especially are always present when I'm Me as a medical officer, I as a gynecologist. If I'm going to explore a woman, there has to be a female nurse or We spoke to two women who claimed stopped or they became totally And one of them thinks maybe No, that all happened in her mind. She went through a powerful ego actually thought I brought I never moved from my but that all happened in her mind. We spoke to another woman who says the bufo, her top was off and that her head was No, but it is very the exhibitionist reaction. A lot of people upon exposure of And of course if that happens, I very humbly and politely There have been some people who or lasting mental effects after If you see the number of people I'm thousands of people, of course a very minority is going There's certain diagnoses, mental diseases that are not going and might end up actually in a So what kind of precautions do you don't come take bufo? You know, initially I do a medical interview to assess for the medicine. But at the end People can always lie. My only regret is that I didn't have but I do believe I've done way It is conceivable that given one could imagine any scenario could under the effect of it. Unfortunately, that then becomes for any allegation, whether The sole admission we did get to some degree regret the people who now say after they have lasting mental effects. It's clear that there are huge risks vulnerable people in an even But I keep hearing these it has profoundly improved I feel that in order to understand the risk, there's no way around I've signed up to one of the industry's most But before I'm even introduced I'm told I need to go through a whole schedule of spiritual Complete with Kundalini activation a Mayan sweat lodge, and a cenote dive. I'm wondering, like, how much of the random stuff that we're doing ingesting the toad venom? Yes, very good. That was really good. I've never But yeah, it's just feeling like a kind of parade of novelties I've heard about these little So Lucia's are the Mayan I didn't use to believe in them Okay. Everyone keeps saying, a part of you dies and a part of And I'm just, like, really the part of me that's the part that doesn't believe And the part of me that will be And I quite like the part of me dwarves, and I really don't Now I'm ready to meet a bufo shaman, by a replica of an ancient I feel like I'm about to go on an Hi. Hello. I'm very good. And you? Good. Good. So are you the shaman the medicine? I am the medicine man, yeah. So how do you decide what Basically, I'm a highly The way that I commune and I serve And what was my higher You're around 40, 45 milligrams. Okay. Yeah. Just make sure that everything that you don't need. Okay. It's fun. No. Well, let's see. Just as I'm ready to take the hit. A last minute surprise is that Definitely not the common practice a participant's safety. The bufo smoke feels painless, And the taste I can only It instantly felt like the most as though until that moment, I had only experienced a tiny I also felt extremely vulnerable, like I was an egg and God had At first I thought this, but then it was pure bliss. I felt a And then was that gust of wind It's like being dissolved into I remember you said to me you don't have to do it And I was like, That kept tethering me back to reality. Well, it's a hell of an experience. Did you see the elves? I didn't see elves, but the elves So I just woke up from the craziest dreams I've And I have to say, I feel I feel like colors are more vivid. It's like there's a path that and then it's been cut back. And now you know that you can Because the effects are so earth shattering, many shamans now offer an integration session to help How was your sleep? Yeah, I slept really, really well. Things seem a little So if I were to call you a couple of I've had some sort of reactivation or I'm finding something difficult, For sure, Yeah, for sure. What about the dark side? What about the people who are What are the risks there? Sleep paralysis, depression There is many irresponsible Is it true that there have been cases of bufo ceremonies? There's kind of many It needs two for tango like a victim if there was So also analyzing what brought that So in situations where women are sexually abused, that the woman might bear some Yeah. Yeah, I've been in ceremonies that girl comes with, like, skirts. Okay. And bringing this into this a reaction from the man, But we're talking about a terrible crime that's incredibly a woman, whether she's wearing That doesn't mean she. I know, - I want to interject, because I think maybe, Do you mean when somebody a girl is trying to It does sound like you're which is worrying if you are No, no, I'm not. Giving someone a Like there's sometimes there's So I don't think If a woman is abused in a ceremony does she bear any responsibility We have to hold ourselves responsible If I go into into a cave who is the responsible? Me? I was feeling amazing this morning, but integration therapy has He literally said it takes two to but it takes one person to That's an absolutely crazy viewpoint administering a powerful drug to He's on the drug when he performs So if there's no third party there the drug has that viewpoint, that's It sort of makes you think, how far do those views spread And is there essentially a rape It's patently clear that the Tourists don't just Now they want a life changing experience And they've found something that But what used to be a substance, you had to hike into the jungle is now available on a main tourist high street. I've seen the potential this I feel better. I feel like that truer, happier, The power of that medicine but with the substance that there needs to be some some sort of system that prevents Oh, miracle. And telepathy.