It puts Americans out of work because they're to make fuel economy go up and if you can't to sell more stuff to smaller engines. What's that? Uh, wouldn't they want lower fuel economy? I thought it was the tree huggers, but the clips they had hair down to their asses and and having all sorts of fun. They are now the baby boomers that are running Back then they didn't have the resources or say make this happen. Now they do, so if they're still tree huggers It was the Japanese automotive manufacturers pass the law that hurts the big three and they didn't know how to make a truck or a They're pretty good at it right now, but back helped them sell the stuff that they were stuff at a loss. My point there is, when you widen margins way for doing so. You could increase sales on stuff that has competitive industries that are a global blood Alright, if you look at the bottom part there, rate. So what's asset turnover rate? Well you take your sales revenue for a year, What are your total assets? It's your current assets plus your fixed assets. What are your fixed assets? Stuff that I bought that's worth something What are my current assets? How much inventory do you have on hand, what's Accounts receivable, help me here, this means mail but legally you can say it's cash in From your accounting class, does that sound And then also you have cash on hand. So my question is, this is all about how we We widen margins by cutting cost based on you could do to increase a company's asset Back track a little bit. Anyone? What's that? (Increase sales) You could, but we are you can increase sales and not require more times two but then you have to consume twice a wash. But if you can increase sales by 50% with not 50% more, yeah you're going to make your I'm assuming that in manufacturing and saturated saying &quot;let's increase sales&quot; they have to because increasing sales just isn't an option Yeah? (decreasing your assets) Yup, so decreasing I'll give an example, forty years ago if you dollars, they would employee like 3,000 people. Today if you build a car factory, you can employee more than 1,000 people. And that new factory today will crank out years ago. That's doing more with less. There's a time when GM employed a million annual sales revenue. Toyota did it with 70 thousand people. Who's doing more with less? Who has higher asset turnover rates? Who has wider margins? Who can more competitively price their products their sales and revenue goes up. Toyota was able to at that point. Through the reemergence from that bankruptcy General Motors is actually doing more with Toyota is actually stuck with some legacy have to deal with because they started over. I will admit it was really convenient for 40 billion dollars. And thank goodness because our economy is nationally we're at 5.1% they actually think so may suppliers would have gone out of business entire auto industry globally could have collapsed able to reemerge, they could say the 40 billion of people with great paying jobs. I make the argument that, how did we ever out of business, could destroy an entire industry millions of people directly and indirectly So, back to your point. Outsourcing, you could do more with less. How about inventory? If you don't have any inventory your asset A huge push in supply chain management is If we need stuff to build stuff you get it want it sitting around and sometimes they'll for that part until they actually buy my car. The suppliers like, uh that doesn't sound It's like, I made it and I gave it to you, If you have enough leverage, and that's what the terms and conditions of a contract and your suppliers but do whatever it takes to and ethical, K? Uh, guys have heard of Apple, when they sell - $.90 left over. They're obsessed with Supply Chain Management on the planet. Good for them, they're prospering and flourishing You guys love Apple. I read that Apple has 200 billion dollars Not 2 billion not 20 not 200 million, they And I thought to myself, okay no one's ever When you have 200 billion in cash you could in America&quot;. They could buy an entire industry. They have 200 billion in cash, cash is an If you look at this calculation their asset so much cash. Our accounting standards are so greedy, they sitting around. Okay? Our accounting system basically says make When you make lots of money reinvest it so Apple right now is sitting on 200 billion, lowers their ROI. So investors are like &quot;wait a second, your tells them &quot;don't worry, we'll figure out you're going to love our ROI&quot;. Also, Apples margins are very very good so You can argue that our accounting system is greed. Uh, I used to think if I had 200 billion dollars And one I would never ever get into the auto Why? In the auto industry, if you sell something you've got one, two, three, four cents leftover. You give me an industry when I sell something eighty cents leftover, I'll invest in that So initially here's my prediction, this is up to 200 billion in cash, K? At that point you can actually buy an industry money trying to figure out what the next one figure it out they are going to have the money So I thought for sure. What's Apple talking about doing? Has anyone heard? Designing and building what? (cars) Cars. Yeah, the educated idiot who thinks he knows billion dollars you're not getting into the thin. Apple right now is hiring tons of people from A lot of those baby boomers that don't necessarily experience. Rumor has it they're trying to figure out And now they are trying to decide do we actually the technology associated with the electric With 200 billion they can do whatever they Uh, maybe they decide that 3-D printing will need factories anymore, you don't need tools 200 billion dollars kind of starts to get So I think they are sitting on it, but they're But in general if I could leave you with an probably a company that obsessed with this do I make to that calculation. And if you make a significant one you've got My students in the Supply Chain program, uh, year. By the time they are 30 or 35 they're usually in spend. When you spend that much money on behalf of job, you can generate huge cost savings which but if you can save them millions shouldn't So a lot of my students they're called commodity different parts with lots of different suppliers been at Western for 17 years, and most of and they make anywhere from 20 - 50K a year It's easy when someone gives you 200 million to walk into your bosses office and say &quot;I'm if you're 32 or 33 years old. Do you feel like in general you gotta feel is? Its basically figuring out how to do things Uh, companies are telling us make them take them take engineering classes where they can One of the biggest skill sets that I am hearing you, is data analytics. So we keep adding classes to this major, the requires over 13 classes that's over 40 hours. So if you wait until your junior and senior to delay graduation. But, if you don't go this route if I can make For example, can you take Microsoft office system that helps you make better decisions? An example would be, you go to work and your data that says this is what we bought and Companies for a long time have been buying that its actually cheaper to source in the times, the inventory, the quality, the insurance, period of time China's actually turning out In the 90's in the auto industry they were the Indiana supplier $1 is too much, China Actually, over a 20 year time period they And they needed 20 years worth of data to So if you can go into a company and use Microsoft make decisions because if you have 900 thousand that to make a decision. We have classes like CIS 2640 in the business excel and a lot of companies are saying we is and who you work for, can you help us make We also have a business analytics minor, that's data mining and data warehousing and data I would argue that in the business college because every employer out there is saying So keep adding those skill sets, make them that impact them 5 - 10 years down the road advancement opportunities. Alright, its 70 degrees and sunny outside I will stay up here for any questions if you to cut you lose. Thank You.