Glory to God. We have a very, very special album what Chris said, that it is an amazing church world. Have you thought about the fact that end up helping somebody in the most difficult maybe in several years, they'll need That is what I love about Elevation Church. to take our ministry places we may never and when God sends his Word, healing always the new album... I'm not so much doing available everywhere music is ...just making sure you are aware that you can &quot;I can worship him anywhere.&quot; Come on. Clap &quot;I can do this anywhere. I can start clapping do this anywhere. I can lift my hands when the Put it in the chat right now. EFam, say, Let's also thank God for all of our our eGroup leaders, and our security teams. I haven't preached in a few weeks, I want to shared God's Word with you. I trust you received since I haven't preached in a few Without further ado, I want to share with you me. I may be a little rusty, but I'm ready. Ooh, Moses, 80 years old, stretching out his staff How many of you have had the Devil tell you you're All right. Well, you just got your word. &quot;I'm I do while I'm off, by the way. I think of things really, really messed up. But it is great reflection, study, and creativity with the family. In Genesis, chapter 41, verse in Joseph's life. The Bible says, two sons were born to Joseph by priest of On. Joseph named his firstborn Manasseh The name Manasseh in Hebrew sounds like &quot;It is because God has made me forget all my &quot;The second son he named Ephraim and said, in the land of my suffering.'&quot; Now that's The Bible says, &quot;The seven years of abundance famine began, just as Joseph had said. There was land of Egypt there was food. When all Egypt began for food. Then Pharaoh told all the Egyptians, Go back to verse 52 for a moment. &quot;The second son made me fruitful in the land of my suffering.'&quot; increased in Egypt. The title for this How much would you love it if you could go letting your parents do that? I asked my kids what name would you choose?&quot; They all be Justin after, of course, Justin Bieber Everybody went around the table and shared thing. When we read the Bible, there is so much culturally. The name Joseph is a name that was a baby for so long, and she couldn't have When she was having babies, she was doing first natural baby, biological baby, she named or may he add. That's the meaning of the name a lot has happened since the birth of Joseph and Just to bring you up to speed on some his life really reads like the resume of in their life. You may take issue with that just saying if you didn't assume God was with that transpired that God was not. You know how we we assume they're blessed and God is But if someone struggles, a they must be doing something wrong&quot; or &quot;They We suffer for different reasons. I do want you suffers somewhere. Everyone. What I just told about anybody you envy, because anybody in their life that, if you knew about it, you This is important to point out (maybe whole subject) about influence, in a day and age where the term influencer Influence is expensive. Anybody who has a It has cost Joseph a lot to stand in we're reading about him naming two sons something really interesting. It says these Now, Joseph has predicted a famine in the land. He called Joseph to interpret his dream, Joseph said, or abundance, and then you'll have seven years take the good years and set some aside so you are don't just consume the lot you've got. Sometimes even in church, if we're having a and take a quick video to show the Devil so good. I want to remember this moment wonderful. I want to treasure this. I want things that happen to me and bank those of discouragement or defeat, I can point Now, this is a physical famine, but We could apply this to our experiences. However, Joseph has been elevated to a position where of the land of Egypt is the pharaoh. He has He has taken grain from the cities in silos some grain so that when the famine hits Joseph has given himself a lot of significance for us to read about Egypt, knowing what we As a matter of fact, when I say &quot;Egypt,&quot; people would be enslaved for 430 years. To be after Joseph was gone. God raised up &quot;Let my people go.&quot; Isn't it interesting that was the place they became enslaved The truth of the matter is a lot of the things a lot of the things that help us in one season shelter us in one season of our lives will shackle shelter, but it turned into shackles? &quot;I ran to In Egypt, not only would the people but Joseph never wanted to go to Egypt Joseph's bucket list. Egypt wasn't on Joseph's Let me give you a little recap. Joseph sold into slavery, picked up by the Ishmaelite Potiphar, and treated as a slave for almost a and then, after rising to prominence, landing him in prison for a In prison, he met a man whose dream he interpreted and when that man left prison (he was &quot;Tell your boss about me so I don't rot in and forgot all about Joseph. Can you believe gave him the prophecy of freedom. He forgot all He forgot about Joseph for two years until one and the cupbearer remembered, &quot;There was this interpret dreams. I wonder, if we go get him right Here's where I want to pause and point out that Think of the two years Joseph sat in prison, lot of good that did. Nobody appreciates washing the dishes.&quot; Maybe I'm not talking you. &quot;Nobody ever appreciates me for giving free Uber Black? Do they just think I'm a free private chef? Do they just think I'm Yet there seems to be a sense in which any earlier than he did, he wouldn't purpose he was created for. I think of it about a famine. Holly and I have different She has a very elastic understanding of an recommendation, and she goes by smell. I go it comes to fruit, she likes a little away the other day, and she caught the I didn't even know she was athletic. I've from this woman in my life until I went to &quot;Put that back.&quot; I said, &quot;Put it ain't bad.&quot; Because she knows the difference Now, if you are Joseph, sitting in a prison for of your life is rotting away, and you are rotting only to find out that maybe the reason God kept Maybe the reason the cupbearer was if you had been released from that prison window of opportunity for you to demonstrate &quot;You're not rotten; you're ripe.&quot; I see people &quot;It should have happened a long time ago,&quot; &quot;It's not going to happen for me because I'm But God said, &quot;I know what ripe looks like.&quot; you're still getting ready and when you how to leave the thing in the obscure place positioning.&quot; High-five three people and say, The Enemy will tell you too much time has passed, have gone ahead of you, too many experiences learned you didn't learn. I feel like preaching if you humble yourself under his mighty hand... Let's get back to the text. The Bible says it's good that he had them before the famine. a trial to remind you of who he is so you don't you want to quit. The Bible says two sons were the priest of On. In case you're wondering These people were royalty, but they were Joseph's surprise when he realized, &quot;God is to do it through foreigners.&quot; You know how we in our lives? You know how you were picking when they were 3 months old? You bought them a This serves to illustrate the principle that and it's this: it's going to happen here. &quot;Maybe one day I'll get to go back home to Canaan. Maybe one day I'll get to reconcile with day they'll tell me they're sorry and that get to take in the familiar sights and Imagine Joseph's surprise when instead he gave him the gift of a family Usually, when we preach about Egypt, we in Deuteronomy, the Lord tells his people, after you do not forget the Lord, who brought you God is warning his people after he brought dreadful for them...bricks without straw and masters who knew not of Joseph. He said, &quot;Be Yet we're reading a passage today there are some things God can do even though to somebody today who is in a place in their dealing with a situation they did Joseph did not go to Egypt as a yet the Bible says in verse 52, &quot;God has made now here comes the question. How can God to be free from? We all have things... and you can pretend like this is for the We all have things we need to be freed places we never planned to go. Some of us on to us genetically. They are not even the demons you're fighting are from your daddy, said the name of Jesus. They still have to You imagine a day when you'll be free of this, no longer feel this way, when depression will no when anxiety will no longer overwhelm your this.&quot; I came to preach you can be fruitful in and it's going to happen the moment Manasseh means forget. Let's study this. Sit but let's study it. Verse 51: &quot;Joseph 'It is because God has made me forget all my if you forgot it, why are we still talking You don't forget having your coat dipped in animal blood, and presented to death when you are still very much alive. half-dead, and carted to a foreign place to that. The Bible says he said he forgot. So is When he says, &quot;What God gave me...&quot; How many have what God gave me, and then I think about what was the peace that was stolen from me...&quot; I believe temptation, because when you are treated this way Many people who come through abuse take the do not have the power to project outward and turn through all of the fruit of your future because But Joseph said, &quot;When I see what God gave me, to go to, in a situation I never thought of my life I never saw coming...&quot; It isn't that he just refocused what he was looking I know your body is holding a lot of trauma, because everybody you let in somehow let you arms. Refocus. I know that some things and I know if you could go back and have it choose it. The things you never chose Just because I didn't choose to go through it It is a matter of focus. LJ, you played so Scotty, Shae, Otis... They played so well. Y'all, don't go into the comments. The We will put a song out that says, &quot;Oh, my God, in the comments, &quot;Well, what if he hasn't been God has been good to you, but God hasn't been that so I can go on YouTube and say all the stuff I I'm going to have the IT department set it up through any kind of AI or AARP or any of that &quot;The goodness of God is a perspective.&quot; problems. The goodness of God is not freedom that starts with him and works its way outward. Joseph is not saying it didn't happen. stuffing it down so it's just going to come out &quot;I forgot my father's household,&quot; all of and 45 kind of want to laugh, because his brothers who betrayed him, are actually Sometimes God will call you to feed Sometimes God will call you to go back and the wounds you suffered will become a That's what I think Joseph is saying. to see what God is doing right here in Egypt. I never thought I'd have these half-Egyptian kids. all of the grain in a time of famine. I never People have been telling me what to do my do. Potiphar told me what to do. The jailer I find myself in a position where God has given &quot;While I was enslaved in Egypt, God was increasing Now he can look at his other child, Ephraim, and understand the meaning of it. He says, &quot;God has Don't you wish God would just keep you from I think we need an illustration, so boys. Y'all give them a hand as I have two things that I have on my how to bring this message home, because I feel like today I just told them a bunch of years ago and they just talk about You know, with the things people are I really want them to understand what it means suffering. The thing about fruit in the land inside the thing grow. The earth is neutral. The Then it can become fertile, but all the earth Now, we live in a time where we respect a whole internal reality. Oh, yes, we do. If you do bicep muscles, or something like that, everywhere you go those away&quot; and &quot;Do you have a license to carry Bible for 100 days or a year, or something like &quot;Man, your Philippians knowledge is really...&quot; You Therefore, I want to illustrate what I because everybody suffers somewhere, but not suffering is productive. There is a difference and the suffering that increases fear was in Joseph when Joseph went into Egypt. he already had his integrity, so when because it wasn't about what was on When Joseph was accused, they tried to throw dirt name, it didn't change his nature, because says when the whole world was suffering I suggest that the only reason there was food Sometimes God will put you in a situation situation needs. So, all of the prayers get me through this...&quot; There are things God wants do those things, you can't be fruitful. that is happening in your life right now that you I will show you why it might not be what you to illustrate. One I have in my pocket, and you two items, and then you can decide what seem to have not much in common, but I this is a seed. Technically, it's a so it's a seed. Now look. What does Answer, class: both of them have to get Follow me. If I take this seed, this peach There was no part of you that found any of that What's wrong with y'all? I just did it to the seed, but if... Don't do it? So, if I do this to these, it ruins them. If I because the value of the sneakers was have a seed and I take the seed... I just put the When I did this, you didn't say, &quot;No.&quot; You sneakers revealed the potential of the seed. I the seed of Abraham. So, when the Devil What you went through didn't ruin you. It didn't you that you made a mistake, because the value The value of you has never been that you that Christ is in you, and if Christ is you know the seed is still good. The seed The value is in you. So, now I hear Joseph Y'all missed it. &quot;He made me fruitful in my Jesus didn't resurrect until they put him in the the ground. Some of the fruit God has produced I never wanted to go. I can't believe you were so about your mind, your soul, your purpose, your integrity, your habits, your prayer life, That dirt did not hurt that seed; it turned it to Some of the things you have been through it ruined you, but if your value is internal, this can become this. So, Joseph can stand but he wasn't ready for his family, Understanding that you are fruitful It makes you look at bad things people say about the things you don't like a little differently. then it will begin to absorb the it will begin to spread apart and then it can start to sprout. If it starts to and the minerals and reach up to get the light. suffering. This is why it's really important You've already suffered enough. Don't you want that again. You have already suffered enough. I'm applying this to every type of suffering. you've suffered enough. Don't you want to learn and get clean so you can help somebody I wish I had another peach pit. Lord. Joseph was put into a pit, and the seed because God was keeping him there to get God is sovereign. Your life is not rotting; it's moment. If Joseph had met his family one year them. He would have retaliated. So, stop telling When you are a seed and you are in soil it can begin to feel like nothing is happening, tell you the most activity is happening do not let the absence of visible activity presence of God has weakened or taken a that one that I just put in. It would have to be It's breaking so it can bud and blossom. a place that he never wanted to go. &quot;Yes. I didn't want to come to church. My mom wanted to be here. You love to hear me preach. to do. Some of y'all didn't even want to be to live in this city or Roanoke or Raleigh could go around the world and say, &quot;I Soil isn't sexy, but that's where it breaks off so that what is inside can grab on, the beauty of this message is that we situation in your life, because I just told a place that God's people Joseph said, &quot;He increased me in kicking and screaming.&quot; It doesn't have grow through it. It doesn't have to be in it. It doesn't have to be a state of Every time I get ready to preach...not 9 out time I prepare to preach to you, just before the It almost feels like the flu. I want to go to bed. sign that I'm in the rich soil now, that I have If you don't ever sit with your but you just run straight to pills, you run who will say what you want to hear... If you don't never see what was in you that was designed to be &quot;I thought Canaan was the land with fruit. of fruit. I thought that was the land God was if the land doesn't have fruit, will bring fruit kid in your school is crazy, you'll be the sane That's what the seed was made for. I see some of our kids going back to school in &quot;There's going to be a revival here. There's to be a day of Pentecost fully come here. I'm YouTube. It's going to happen here. It's going here. It's going to happen in my midlife. It's old age. It's going to happen here. It's going to I read about a God who would give me a land put fruit inside of me. This is for those is for those decisions others made that set can't reverse course. This is for those things for those things. You are not this. You Come on. Get your hands dirty. Dig until you you find the source of the pain. Dig until you can't forget. Dig until you get it. Everything was only designed to show you what was I believe every place in your life you &quot;God put me here.&quot; Now, don't be an &quot;God put me here.&quot; Don't take my words and make But the state in life that you are in is the I'm going to tell you something in my hope you never forget this picture. God looks at the heart. My Bible says in Romans not worthy to be compared with the glory that happening here. Let God have it. Your surrender Maybe I should say it the way I wrote it because that didn't make a bit of suffering into soil. That's what I meant stand up on your feet. Lift your hands to your A thousand lies can be put on what does it matter? The weight of but if God's approval is in you... &quot;This is Even Jesus went to Egypt, and he's with you in Things are going to happen here that are going the idea that God has to do everything before you can be happy. Eat your lunch today thank God you have something to put 401(k) is. Be grateful. It is God in you, Father, I thank you for all of these increasing even under the water of this the dirt that was meant to hurt us actually I pray this would be rhema and that they would know exactly what it is meant to release and refocus. Father, if we do not release those things, we can't I want you to turn your palms up to heaven now, you're receiving something from God. I want you was, as awful as it was, give him what happened. there are some things he wants It's going to happen here. This is a place of This is a place of salvation, and this is a place be in Egypt, but let's get Egypt out of you. He called him Ephraim. That's a Hebrew name. &quot;I child of God.&quot; Oh, yeah. Begin to celebrate. Oh, how great the love of the Father, Oh, how great the power of Jesus, I was lost in sin and you found me; I was dead and gone and you raised me; hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church know when we go live and post new content make to you today where you're watching from and like to support the ministry financially you can reaching people around the world for Jesus