Alright, we're going to be talking about go I've gotta lay down my bona fides. I launch. I have been playing World of Warcraft I have the Ivory Raptor, which involved farming months the game was out, and I did that in, A few years ago Blizzard sent me this nice unbroken subscription to the game, which means company that made a game I really like, but I have this in-game windrider pet because I keep on the shelf behind my streaming setup. I've done server-first raiding, I helped my Brawler's Guild rewards, Mage Tower rewards, First Illustrious Jewelcrafter. Why did I get this? Why did I do what needed Point is, yes, I have played a lot of World In August 2019 Blizzard Entertainment launched of World of Warcraft more or less as it existed lifespan, after all the new content was released, While not a pure recreation the deviations to the fact that WoW itself changed dramatically one of the more dramatic anachronistic changes that originally wasn't added to the game Care has even been taken to recreate period-authentic of spell batching originally designed to work will, in turn lead to things like cancelling or being well out of range of monsters while head. But returning to the Azeroth-that-was fifteen It lays bare all the strengths and flaws of fact that World of Warcraft was kinda bad. Alright I'm gonna just oh are you stuck? yup are you kidding me? Well, it's bad, but it's also really good? also pretty garbage. It's garbage, but still Here, since I'm already in this hole let I really like to revisit old computer role of the history of electronic gaming, found pushing both graphical capabilities and systems at the cutting edge of what the personal computer be. This, however, also means that they're often it a lot of compromises that modern players are typically unusual, frustrating, unintuitive, at least one vital game system that is utterly time, patience, and inclination to devise Ultima Underworld is the first retail game systems for character movement are pretty facing translates to direction, leading to is walking forwards, but at a kind of slanted Dungeon Master 2 has a magic system revolving abstract concepts, with no guidance on what bit of help by at least telling you that the but at the end straight up tells the player Most of these games will allow you to just away something vital, either on purpose or But it's not impossible for a modern audience you're over the hump it's generally pretty on Lands of Lore, Ultima Underworld, or Elder modern games and see the genesis of ideas, to this day. Just, you know, maybe keep a walk through This is much of the WoW Classic experience. player to get over, things that are, by today's but adapt to them and there's an interesting I have also found that it's actually easier because Classic is essentially a complete all the content that Classic will contain, effect of making it feel a lot more self-contained of the package and charm. Just before we jump deeper into the jank of WoW itself exists in the context of the game all but crushed: Everquest. WoW was, from conception onwards, meant to and elements of Classic that feel exhausting of quick travel flight points scattered around to Everquest. You mean you can just fly all the way across hat! Will they be serving hors d'oeuvres on Oh, you think there aren't enough spiders to get all the venom you need for that damn Yeah, well, out here in Crescent Reach there Three! Three snakes! Sure, by modern standards it feels like a return to a class trainer and spend silver old ones, but when you put it in the context spells were two different things, and it was and also some spells you needed to find as was very much the "noob friendly" approach. that you'll eventually be able to learn! Oh go, they're so expensive Game, please, please game, I just, I just That's not to say that all the humps are of it is just bad on its own or obviously World of Warcraft was pushed out the door a pretty substantial and well-documented disparity had been working on the longest, namely Eastern and the stuff they had been working on the There's a few standout examples, like the being little more than a rough draft, which glance, but is a stark contrast when compared Caverns. The entire zone of Azshara is largely devoid the number or density that you would expect substantial number of NPC camps scattered but never populated. and, oh god, this character is too low to F's in chat The Paladin talent trees weren't implemented clearly a last minute rush job, with notable a single-target healing specialization. Let's The first tier contains Improved Lay On Hands, an emergency heal with an hour long cooldown, the cooldown of Lay on Hands by up to 20 minutes, tier begins the chain of talents leading to talents are a damage boost to a single ability, your party, and the capstone ability Holy spell. In the healing tree. There was a lot of stuff like this floating and in a lot of ways the first year of World getting the game finished. Some of the abrasive moments really just come in "Massively Multiplayer" was always heavy lifting being done by clever design more substantial than they really were. WoW many players doing something in the same area only support three to eight players at a time. over-competition, with players standing around While this encourages grouping up, it only for most quests if there are more than five is enough to strip a quest area bare like of time in the Massively Multiplayer game not for any other reason than just to like holy crap oh my god see like that right there, there's the line! So Dan, queue it up. I wanna die. This is. All that said, returning to WoW as it used many ways. It reveals the flaws, yes, but well. The cartoonish, exaggerated aesthetic of the of the series, continues to shine. Even the own charm, and after a few minutes of play And there are some moments of windowing, places player's view, that remain stellar. One that really stands out to me is actually it was replaced in the changes to the game The opening hours of the Orc and Troll quest Trials, down the road to Razor Hill, through their entrance to Orgimmar, the capital city leads the player to this frame at the threshold, with the bank, flight tower, and zeppelin composition. Evocative, fantastical, it's and makes the world feel so much bigger than The version of this moment, as it exists now, expansion. A huge portion of that expansion content, since most of it was at least six as 2003 or even 2002. The resolution disparity second and upcoming third expansions was stark, grow wider as more content was added. Additionally players had been clamouring for continents, a much loved feature integral Lich King expansions, but the original environments The old world ultimately consisted of a series questing areas joined by large blocks of featureless rocks and hills. The flight paths all wound the world look fully formed and sculpted while It was very much an amusement park facade, behind the scenery, the out-of-bounds areas something all players could access just by A revamp was, in a lot of ways, needed, but kinda questionable. Cataclysm, as a whole, is not a fondly remembered details of the decisions that were made. Blizzard decided that rather than merely updating with newer, higher-resolution content and zones in a way that would look boring but dramatically alter the world itself in a massive the state of the entire main world was concurrent This had some side-effects. By advancing the timeline many of the new following up on the storylines that played only made sense if you were already familiar longer accessible. This kind of self-referential storytelling a lot of moments in the expansion being retreads with a cheeky smile and a wink to the camera. Mortals that fancy themselves heroes have &quot;raid&quot; will amuse me. In this regard the new entrance to Orgimmar to a wide open world, no longer framed to old players, an overhaul of layout and aesthetic to Garrosh, a mulletted electric guitar solo It is incredibly trivial, but it is emblematic over a decade and a half: increasingly focusing I'm not even sure I should be saying "criticism" much as it is merely descriptive. World of Warcraft has undeniably changed over of most of the changes really comes down to and creators like in the game, what do they evening of play look like? They're not really questions with right you pick it probably doesn't have some moral person if you want to quietly solo queue for minimum of social friction. Likewise it's game with aggressive social dependency and This is where I feel I need to acknowledge been controversial, fraught with ego and drama, leading the charge are known for their toxicity in the very small, but highly competitive, they wanna make it different, they want to maybe I just want group finder, hey my gear helmet, f* you! You're going to wear that chromatic boots looking like a goddamn clown face? It's a square! Alright? Eight pixels? same. We're not gonna give up, we're not gonna The basic argument from these outrage merchants unlike some point in the past where WoW was this argument has been working for over a means. Why having badges be given by every single absolutely awful idea. Possibly, in fact, up with in their entire history. Alright? putting Naxx version 2 in the game. This goes I mean, really. This goes beyond the whole epics for running Kharazan.&quot; No it goes beyond every possible respect. There's no consensus on when that peak was, agreed by that community to be somewhere during 2004 and 2010. This has created an environment where WoW contrast to Battle for Azeroth as "the real spiritually untainted, the mythological prelapsarian will restore World of Warcraft to the position everyone and their dog had a subscription. It's effectively a church schism in video That level of intensity in the conversation as the arguments for that position aren't A big hitch in these kinds of public conversations people tend to skew towards the answers that they believe the audience wants to hear. The than the answers that are true. They tend to lean really heavily on value wider social group believe are superior qualities, that World of Warcraft was best when it was statement because Classic just isn't very Now I do want to walk a fine line here because and difficulty the conversation turns into we use to talk about the systems and interactions end up just shouting the same words at each it goes nowhere. Mainstream video games bias towards tests pattern consistently or with precision, and like and desire and appreciate. The vast majority of the challenge in World simple from an execution standpoint, and is saying that as a bad thing, by the way. Tests of difficulty. It is a skill that is being typically referring to when they say "hard WoW Classic is a very slow game, and it punishes it's not exactly as taxing as a marathon, vast majority of it is not particularly difficult it in a single sitting or a tight timespan, execute than basically anything that came All the difficulty is piled into a willingness after every. Single. Fight. And a failure as punishment. So there's this syllogism at play where are good, B - I liked World of Warcraft in I liked World of Warcraft and I like good and good games are hard games, therefore World like it and I like good games. This isn't really that weird, people do they like the things they like, so they just things they enjoy. And yes, to bring this back around, World years, and the changes have collectively been updates, large swaths of new content, or the The ideas answering questions like "what over the years, often subtly, sometimes drastically. I want to remove the outrage merchants from honestly, because while, on a personal level, by outrage merchants into parroting bad, syllogistic disingenuous when they say they enjoyed WoW and that it's not all nostalgia. Nostalgia is, of course, an important part landed at a really formative time for a lot or college and had a lot of free time, and and their life meshed well with the pace of social space. That is a potent element, but The Hashtag No Changes crowd has an entire doesn't mean classic is devoid of value if We can't un-cross a river, but if we walk portrait of the differences and understand been left behind by the changes over the years World of Warcraft: Battle for Azeroth is a game has a tremendous array of content for versus player competition to skill-testing community treasure hunts. With fifteen years play that aren't accounted for, in particular prefer a social solo experience, meaning that the multiplayer elements being seamlessly you still prefer to spend the majority of to have to coordinate multiple schedules just Not only is there a lot to do, but most of chunks, with group activities taking bigger case of dungeons or a couple hours in the depending on how much time you have to play that is a structured task with concrete rewards. Island expeditions, arena, battlegrounds, quests, professions, achievements, collections, In contrast WoW Classic has relatively little There's dungeons, there's quests, there's there will be PvP battlegrounds. Though, once resource, it's not even super difficult in the game. There is a very narrow, and deliberate leads to dungeons, and dungeons lead to raids, so they're not exactly the kind of thing In fact, really, in order to field a raid eighty players, minimum, to cover for different who can be there on Tuesday and Thursday, of the core group but are basically the supply consumables. So there's this pretty self-evident contrast: relatively few defined activities, and the to do. But that's just a surface level analysis, where we see something of what has been left All of that content, all the different tasks been added bit by bit over the years to free in that narrow channel of progression where raid with, or you kind of ran out of things things about that arrangement that really, The requirements in terms of time, players, environment, where guilds that have the resources Back in 2006 it wasn't really that unusual one or two active raids per faction. Actually, in 2005 the server hardware itself raid engaging Nefarion at the same time, and because if two groups pulled the latency would server would crash. Hashtag no changes! which meant that you needed to bend to their lot of toxicity and harassment just to play various mechanics interact, success one week so guilds that are doing well tend to attract failure can quickly lead to a social death or leave, increasing the odds of further failure. Given that these raids represent a huge time focus on hedging their bets and playing it with the most optimal classes. This can make coming in late, who don't already have the to play, to even get an invite to a group. So there are very good reasons for a lot of progression tracks for players who want to of four, nine, ten friends instead of listening someone pulls whelps in Onyxia's Lair. The next idiot f* who goes and aggros something f*ing item for the next two f*ing weeks not f*ing motivation for you to f*ing play proper?! This toxicity is actually a deliberate design Warcraft were built on a concept of social hostile to solo play and that it was basically World of Warcraft, as the friendlier version get through most of the game solo, but it's Questing with one or two other people is substantially provide a force-multiplying factor to one simply linear. With a friend you can do higher level quests time spent moving between questing zones and have to resort to grinding just to be able This social dependency is kinda compelling a few big weaknesses, namely that it means players, who may or may not be nice people, in the same space as one another. Right now, in the first months after release, because it's in the sweet spot where there's the whole level range, so no matter what level you're on there's probably someone else or pretty close to it. If you need help with an elite opponent that time it's probably only going to take a along looking to do the same quest. But as time goes on more and more players players compulsively level new characters character. The result is that as the overall the lower and mid-level zones drops dramatically, other players around to be dependent on. Back in 2006 it wasn't even particularly or Desolace at any given time. So it definitely needs to be kept in mind to speed up leveling, to reduce social dependency, problems that emerge as MMOs mature, and a of Classic. So Blizzard has added all of this other stuff the ranges that characters can quest together, 120, and to ensure that players at level cap hostage by the only assholes with a raiding play because they chose a class that is less But with all of that added stuff, it is possible much to do, where there's so many parallel comparable in terms of their worth, that it You can get a decent amount done even if you but that also means that over the course of a dozen small tasks, and the line between What's more, if everything is meaningful, a reward of appropriate value, and they're at a certain point it stops feeling like options You're running low on runes, you should week. Have you done your emissary quests for the Gotta get at least a +10 in for the weekly Don't forget your island expeditions. Trial of Style ends at midnight. Mythic raid Tuesday Wednesday, Heroic alt Can't forget your PvP cache Are you ever going to finish that achievement? Here's where Classic has an unexpected strength: "meaningful", then you are free to self-direct. [big pause] Let's talk about grinding. Oh okay, so GravyCast wants to know what is so, grinding is when you keep killing the over again without the guidance of a quest oh, that didn't work out well F's in chat Grinding is something of a hallmark of early that at some point in playing the game you the same enemies over and over and over again. ends when your bags are full and you decide If you needed money to buy skills or a mount way to get it, but it was the most straightforward. I just want my raptor! If a questing area was too competitive, if it was a better idea to just go over to the grind out a level or two so you can move on. Oh my god! Grinding isn't something that anyone would not very dynamic. It is, by definition, repetitive. everyone feels is kinda bad in a game because low on point. But that aimlessness is maybe not all bad. Grinding is, in essence, the purest distillation authority telling the player what to do or and the player's own discretion about how Now, this is the same incentive set that led options to the game, and in a sense players they go about achieving their general goals. options to engage with, but what we find in for Azeroth is that paradoxically adding more it feel like there are fewer options. This happens because as you add more direction, goes down, and even if self-directed, freeform the fact that there's nothing telling you of openness. And I should say that I'm not using "illusion" crave a well-crafted illusion, and Classic At some point in the last 15 years, gradually, these illusions, in a lot of ways because with an illusion and you start to see through you just want it to be honest with you. And that honesty, laying out mechanics, revealing telling players where the quests are and how ways to level, letting them fly over every mutually exclusive with mystery and the illusion You can, in Battle for Azeroth, level up by murlocs, but the whole time that you do it so many better, more efficient, structured, so why are you bothering? In Classic, well, everything sucks, so... grinding better experience than questing? much worse, either. There is a kind of freedom you choose to do is about as good as anything There's a simplicity to that, a clarity And, again, that's not bad. Leveling in less punishing, but it's also a lot more a rush to get to level cap, because that's And the thing is that for most players, that's The aimless, self-directed play of Classic There's only so many times you can grief done with it. The first time you have to wait the dungeon, because they were on the other to get anywhere, it's a drinking game style But, by the third or fourth time you just summoning stones back on. However, for players who not only enjoy that that comes with it, but prefer it, it makes left them behind over the years. Horse doovres F's in chat