Today, we're going to talk about A common question I get I keep using in my videos Well, if you have Microsoft 365, you already have that hash sign and you should be using it because it's going to make Let me show you how. Here I have some sample data which is not formatted as an Excel table. First of all, let me show the hash sign. So you can't just go typing in equals, reference A3, put in hash to spill and pick up the that's not going to happen. And the reason it doesn't happen is that this is not a spilled range. You can only use the hash a range that's spilling. Now, how do you recognize spilled range? Well, let me show you. First of all, let's How do you do that? Well split ranges are generally created by using formulas that spill. So for example, if you or the unique function, these If you're curious to find out I have a separate video about this and I'm going to add the link to it to the description of this video. I also have a complete the new functions in Excel 365. I'll add the link to that as well. The only thing we need for the So let's say I want to for division and region, I'm close bracket press Enter and I wrote the formula once I press Enter and the result is spilled Now, here's how you can Number one, it has this so every time I click away, it's gone. Every time I click inside, it's there. And number two is that the formula is only living in the first cell. So that's the top left-hand corner. Take a look at the formula bar, the formula is dark here. When I go to the next This is how you can Check this out. If I try to remove any part of this range so I'm just going to press it doesn't let me do it. If I press Delete, it The formula can only be removed here, here if I press Backspace and press Enter, my formula is gone. I'm going to press Now instead of just removing it, if you type in something over this so let's say I type in subscribe which is a good time to let you know that if you're not consider subscribing, especially if you're finding yourself learning new topics here. If I type this in and I press Enter, I get a spill error here, why? Because my formula wants to then if I remove this blockage, Now that we know what a spilled range is, how can we use the hash sign? Well, if you're referencing a range that has this property that is spilling that's when you can use the hash sign. So here, if I go in and type in =G3 and now I put in hash and I press Enter, my range automatically spills Now the advantage of using the hash sign is that the moment this this range is going to So for example, if I go and create a new combination let's change this to and I press Enter I get that combination And this part, my hash reference Okay, so I'm going to press Now, if you take a closer notice I'm referencing A3 till B18. So I'm using direct cell referencing. This is not an Excel table. This means that every time if I add in health and I put in Europe obviously this range But if I go in and manually the second range will automatically expand because I'm using the hash sign here. Now best practice is to use Excel tables because you're not going your range will automatically expand if the source is a table and this is not because I'm like unique, this works that's why it's great to So if we transform this we don't have to worry because our range will Let me just press Control + Z to go back. Now, before we do that and I show you how spilled ranges behave with tables, let me show you one other thing. Remember when I typed in this formula, I actually went in and I You don't necessarily Here, if you just referenced it automatically puts it for you. So take a look at this and Now, when I reference this, it's still G3 to H8. Now, if I expand this take a look at what happens, it puts in the high sign for you. Okay, so referencing the that hash sign as well. Let's pause and take a look of the hash sign. Now you generally use that So for example here, let's say for either region, app or division and I want to make that So if I switched to app of the apps and I get an If I switched to division, I just have two different divisions. Where does hash come into play? Inside the sequence and If you're curious to see it's a combination of which is the new version Now let's get back to Let's go ahead and transform this into an official Excel So I'm going to press Control + T, table has headers and let's go with Ok. So now this is a table, the moment I start to take a look at my range here. I'll put in health and Europe, it automatically expands because And how about using hash Well, tables have an inbuilt So take a look at this. If for example, I was just and I want to take this number So I'm going to do minus one. The moment I press everything is relative referencing and it's using structured inside the table. Now if instead I go ahead or write a formula that spills. So for example, let's and I'm going to reference When I close the bracket it's going to give me an error, why? Because my formula is spilling. When it's in this cell, it's trying to write game, And then when it's in this cell is trying to write the same thing game, it's blocking one another. So you get the high spill error. This means that you cannot inside a table. And the reason for that is that you end up with something that's like which is something that in this two dimensional environment, we just have rows and columns. It would be nice to maybe and we could click it that just shows us these three. Kind of like empower query inside the cells. You can click on them Unfortunately, that on the grid here. I guess, to keep that in mind Now here I have a bonus tip for you. What if you want to but you don't want the whole range back. You just want a specific So let's say here, I just of that spilled range. While there are different one way you can do this is the array is your spilled range so I'm going to go with I3#, I want to include all rows so I'm just going to skip this argument and for the column number, I of the column I want returned. So if I just want the first column, I'm going to put one, close and I just get the first The second one back and I get the second one. Okay, so I hope it's clear now and how we can make your without you having to worry about updating your source ranges whenever they change. I hope you found this video useful so give it a thumbs up and to stay up to date with Just click on the subscribe Thank you for your attention and I'll see you in the next video. (mellow music)