Everyone's got a favourite Animal Crossing But, what about the villagers that people Villagers you might persuade to move out of Well, to find out which villagers people HATE, for their favourite Animal Crossing villagers A couple of months have gone by, and over And now, it's time to find out who people's go! Part 1: Counting the votes The first step in the process was deciding There are a whole lot of villagers across the spinoffs, and not all of those villagers You've got characters like Bessie or Hector games. Or how about villagers who never left Japan Plus, promotional villagers, like Wolf Link store chain 7-11. Would it really be fair to compare these obscure in New Horizons? Well, in the end I just decided to include Who am I to decide who deserves to be included?! Which means there's 488 villagers in total. How do we get people to rank all of them? Well, I had a few options. In the past, I've created surveys using each item a rating from 1 to 5. That works well for small sets of games or in total, asking people to manually rate them So, method 2 is Google searches. With Pokemon, for instance, if you find out on Google, say per month, then you've got The Pokemon with the most searches, like with the least searches are the least popular. But that doesn't work for Animal Crossing Lots of people are searching for &quot;ketchup&quot; for the villager Ketchup, they're trying So we'll have to scratch that method too. So, how did I end up doing it? Well, inspired by Tom Scott, I created a website shown two random villagers. And then, they simply had to click or tap would be registered as a win on the system. The villagers with the highest win to loss Now, I'm no web design pro and my hastily issues. Someone spammed over 400,000 votes early on, Plus, the traffic to the website was so high email. But, in the end, it all held together, and submitted. That's more than I ever imagined when I Thank you very much to everyone who submitted And now, the moment you've been waiting collected! So there's almost 500 villagers in total, out a list of names, I'm gonna pick out Part 2: The results So, let's start with the popular ones! In 25th... is Whitney. In 24th is Ione. 23rd is Stitches. 22nd is Molly Then in 20th is Marina 18th is Goldie 16th is Roald 14th is Maple 12th is Coco And that brings us to our top 10! In 10th we have Punchy, the lazy cat villager. In 9th is Fang, the cranky wolf villager. In 8th is Ankha, the ancient Egypt inspired Then in 7th is Audie, the peppy wolf villager. In 6th is Shino, the peppy deer villager. And with that, we're down to the top 5! In 5th place is... Lucky, the lazy dog villager. Now, Lucky's been in every single Animal striking appearance. He may be called Lucky, but he's covered peeking through. Spooky! In 4th place is... Bob, the lazy cat villager! Like Lucky, Bob's also been in every single admit that I did expect him to rank pretty lot of people online seem to really like Bob. And that's fitting, as Bob was the first created - that's why his birthday is January And so, to see him up there in the top 5 most In 3rd place, we have... Lolly, the normal cat villager. Now, while Japanese players were first introduced City Folk that she made her international And Lolly is a real sweetie - literally! Both her name and her catchphrase - bonbon Add that to the fact Lolly will burst out it seems that Lolly has a real positive take And, I like that! Next, in 2nd place, the runner up is... Tangy, the peppy cat villager! Or perhaps I should say "tan-jee", because In English, both her name and her character things go one step further - her catchphrase and her name is "Hyakupa". &quot;Hyaku&quot; means one "hundred", and "pa" 100 percent - as in "100% pure orange juice"! Now that really is tangy... or tan-jee! Which means that in first place, the most to this survey is... Rosie, the peppy cat villager! I feel like Rosie is one of the most iconic She's been in every game to date, she was Animal Crossing movie, she's got a sticker of the game boxes of City Folk, Happy Home Plus, she's one of the spaces on the official Slider and Tom Nook! So yes, Rosie really has had a big impact nice, simple, friendly looking design! Villagers like Lucky, Coco or Ione may have want to chat to or live alongside, you can't But that's only the popular villagers! Next, let's move into the not-so-popular 25th from the bottom is Tammi 23rd is Clyde 21st is Cashmere 19th is Rilla 17th is Rodney 15th is Barold 13th is Rizzo And 11th is Violet. Which brings us to the bottom 10 villagers. 10th from the bottom is Tiara, the snooty 9th is Jambette, the normal frog villager. 8th is Clara, the normal hippo villager. 7th is Yodel, the lazy gorilla villager. 6th is Boyd, the cranky gorilla villager. In 5th from the bottom is Moose, the jock Now, Moose is just really ugly! Some of these bottom villagers only appeared they were islanders in the original Animal members won't necessarily know very well. But Moose has been in City Folk, New Leaf of opportunities to get to know him. But clearly, they haven't liked what they've And yes, &quot;seen&quot; is probably the key word, as a character. And so, he ended up in 5th. In 4th place is Elise, the snooty monkey villager. Now, Elise has been in every Animal Crossing can't be the reason for her unpopularity. My guess? It's her popularity. A lot of the villagers near the bottom of Elise is particularly bad on that front. Her catchphrase is "puh-lease", and her I do". Not someone I'd like to spend a lot of time Then 3rd from the bottom, we have... Limberg, the cranky mouse villager. Now, not only is Limberg's design pretty odour. Limberg, his English name, is short for Limburger, In Japanese he's called Rakkyo, which is Combine that with his catchphrase, "squinky" it's clear that the game's designers had Limberg. And frankly, a smelly, stinky, odorous villager In 2nd place, the second least popular Animal Harry, the hippo villager. Now, originally Harry was a jock type character, villager instead. ...Which is not a great sign - like I said, Plus, Harry's design is very striking - he's name - Harry, or "hairy", you could say. I personally don't really like this character everyone, and I'm not convinced it really And so, he comes in second to last. Only one villager is even less popular.... Which brings us to last place - the least series is.... Jane, the snooty gorilla villager. Now, Jane has so much working against her hasn't appeared in any Animal Crossing games forgotten - and, she has a very outlandish With her "chimp" catchphrase, and the was based on Jane Goodall, the world-famous "Woo-hoo-hoo-hoo". But with everything that Jane Goodall has the snooty gorilla really much of a tribute? I wonder what Goodall would think of her Animal But it turns out this isn't even Jane's Mori and Doubutsu no Mori e+, both of which different character design. This version of Jane, or should I say Fi-ba- inspiration from a Japanese fashion trend bleach their hair, and wear colourful clothes The ganguro movement evolved as a kind of standards. But to international audiences, a gorilla could perhaps bring to mind more negative At least, that's my best guess as to why Unfortunately, this new design is no more been, which means that ultimately, Jane comes last place. Phew, and there we have it! Thanks for coming on this journey with me! If you want to look up where your favourite up a website with the full list of villagers check that out at ThomasGameDocs.com/AnimalCrossing. And this video would not've been possible One Patron in particular - Luke - helped me the website faced, plus money from Patreon If you want to help support videos like this that at Patreon.com/ThomasGameDocs. Again, a huge thanks to everyone who took project! I never expected to get a million votes - that's hopefully seeing the results was interesting. And I'll see you next time, in Bye!