Thanks to Crucial for sponsoring today's Hello everybody, and welcome back Now in today's episode we're going to That's right -- a Disney laptop from 2009. Now, it's worth noting that this attempt at slapping their logo That occurred back in 2004 with the Which was a $600 but who am I kidding, you've probably This time around, Disney decided a netbook back from the ten minutes It sold for $350 and came in two different This right here is the Blue Magic Disney Netpal and right here we have the Princess Pink Netpal. Spec-wise they're exactly the same on the inside. They've got an Intel Atom running at 1.6 gigahertz, a 160 gigabyte hard Now it's worth noting too that there that was released exclusively through difference between it, is it replaced with a 16 gigabyte SSD. So in the midst of the Great Recession, if you had 350 dollars buy your kid a computer, well, Disney was certainly here for you. Now, what on Earth could you do with these things? Well, I mean with them browse the web, read email, but all that sounds pretty boring What would they want to do with this? Well, Disney did include some that we're going to take a look at in a moment, in addition to some themes that Windows XP installation on here. Yes, these things ran Windows XP I just found that interesting because also ran Windows XP so, yeah. Just take with that what you will. Now in terms of design, the and, like your standard Asus EPC netbook from this time -- in fact these are EPCs, this is an EPC, and Asus certainly sold So, the main difference here -- really It's just the Disney tax, pretty much. You know, you've got this design here you've got these flowery things and The Blue Magic one looks like on top of a blue Asus netbook but they actually did implement a little design by taking the Mickey Mouse this pattern here in the background. So, yeah it's- it's something This definitely looks more like just a standard laptop whereas this one Now in terms of port selection, again same port selection and all of that. On the left side you've got your ethernet jack, that's what's hiding behind here; and a microphone and headphone jack; and on the right side you've got an your lock, and you have a VGA port Now opening this thing up, you'll see that it's going to be your pretty standard this thing has certainly seen better and the space bar is really, uh, You got your track pad, which and you see that design from Disney logo right here where the OEM logo for the webcam, implemented Uh, yeah. So that's most clever thing on here, I would say. And we'll just take a look at the just to give you a little bit of a comparison, but of course it's going to be black bezel instead of a white one. Which I personally like a lot better but, I mean, I certainly think the white ones And again on the trackpad and palm rest we've got that same pattern So, there you go. Now, interestingly enough, for whatever reason, the person who owned this prior to me They went specifically with Raspberry Pi OS. So that's what this is running right now, original install of Windows XP So we're going to be using it to demo what we have installed on the hard drive, though I will have a link down that somebody very graciously So if you have one of these and are factory settings, or if you just want to mess around with it in a VM, But yeah. Let's swap the camera Disni-fied -- Disney-ified? modified installation. All right, now I'll be honest, I was kind of to use for the software demo portion because, not only is there a copy of XP but also because this was used by somebody. There's user accounts on here, they and so I thought it'd be kind of cool what somebody was using I know I could have just restored factory image that I talked about, future video and go through want to see that be sure to let me somehow this copy of Super Optimizer got installed on here, &quot;Oh my God, look at all these problems program, and all these are just like invalid shortcuts, no way! I'm sure it's gonna- you have to this thing costs, it's probably gong to Look at that! We got Google Toolbar as well. I don't know what it is, man. *laughs* Some of these programs will actually scareware to get you to pay for stuff we'll just quit out of it for now. And I found this *laughs* hilarious. I have to think that and the kid installed Minecraft playing it so the Minecraft icon, *laughing* 'cause they were bored of how to... y'know, remove the icon? I don't know. But yeah, I think I'm just gonna make for myself just so, uh, *laughs* Yeah, I know what I said earlier Windows XP does anything a new user, kind of and See if there's any like Disney So these are the default icons and here is the default desktop wallpaper which you'd think would go If we go into Properties here &quot;Netpal Window Default Wallpaper&quot;. Asus also bundled a bunch of their EPC wallpapers as well, so let's see if goes with the pink a little bit better. Um. I guess we could go with Yeah, that- I guess that kind of works, really with anything. So yeah, there you go. And some of these programs like Google Chrome did not come pre-installed, But yeah, there was definitely And what we're most interested is Hyperdesk from the Skins Factory. You see we have two separate so we're just gonna go with And when you apply the theme it will which will take effect on things like the Start menu, taskbar, You've got custom icons I think if we go to options here- uh, pink wallpaper, there it is. Yeah, I gotta say, this is a I mean, we'll go to like, My Documents various icons and how they They also centered the window In addition to that we do have some icons We've got two web shortcuts, to We have Parental Controls, which We also have Radio Disney, plays Radio Disney on your computer. So this little player here, some skins and like, oh, look at that. You can also send a shout out as well. Assuming this even still internet right now. But, apparently type out a submission we were on- No it hasn't. We're not on the internet. Frickin' moron. Okay, we'll get out of that. And, yeah. So Parental Controls. main suite of Disney programs that Magic Desktop. Now the appears to be just a rebranded And this is just like an info panel. because it just literally tells you- About in a program. It just says, this is what it is, here's the build number, view the license agreement, Because you actually get to through this Magic Desktop program. So we're going to launch this right now. Now when I launched this off-camera, this thing takes over your entire locks you out from like you can't close this program without What I did there, that's like Which is interesting because -- you see how that flies out, doesn't this look like I can't press control-alt-delete. I can't alt-tab. I can't do control-shift-escape, Okay, I can do that at least, But, yeah, there is this menu down here... Okay, preset password is zero-zero- zero-zero. Wait a second. No frickin' way. That's the Windows- i-is this a Oh yeah. Okay. So this is an updated Yeah, that makes a lot more sense, there's no way they got all before Microsoft officially I just heard the word &quot;magic&quot; in Magic piece of Disney software because they But no, this is just its own thing. You can probably download it right now, The Parental Controls thing here actually says that it's a Inspirus platform from is the predecessor to Magic Desktop here. And this was the company that create the Parental Control And it's not like that was There were a ton of companies that In fact, Microsoft implemented it Yeah, there are some other If we go to All Programs we've got Mix Central and Pix 3.1. Now Mix Central was, this is I think it's a media player actually. Yeah, so you got music, images, videos... Let's uh, go to- just sample music and we'll import our songs here. yeah, we can just double click on this. Or I guess just click on it once. Can't play a whole lot of it, because Content ID would yeah, the best way I can describe 'Cause there's also a store built browse for, like, Disney songs and, and clips and that sort of thing, and then you can consume But yeah, then you can also enter Windows Media Player had. shrink it down and- can you So that's as small as it will go. And of course, being Disney, they have to implement Mickey Mouse so the seek controls over here... or the, you know, previous and next song is in the shape of a Mickey Mouse head. And then you've got Disney Pix 3.1. *camera shutter sounds* Got some nice intro animations going on there. And speaking of intros, today's sponsor spot on a free and easy to use utility that lets you view compatible options for your computer in minutes. Yes, even if that computer Would you ever need to upgrade to a two-terabyte MX500 SSD? Probably not, but it's guaranteed The scanner itself is incredibly easy to use, You're just a single download and a a list of upgrade options. All without snooping on your personal data. And as a thank you for sitting everybody who tries the scanner 15% off your order of all Crucial products So be sure to check them out, for making today's episode possible. And you can see it's designed in a very So you've got the same how you switch So, edit pix, albums, and then this is Yeah we're, definitely have to So let's actually try to create a -- oh gosh, all these icons here -- but let's import something. We'll just go to My Pictures here and... Is there anything in My Pictures? I mean it's not even showing up as Yeah, what's that about? Can you I mean but these are, what, like JPEGs, right? why can't we open that up in here? All right, well I think what I'll do Let's open up the sunset and to our desktop. There we go. sunset sample picture imported in here. what do we want to do. Let's, let's... let's import You've got a list of fonts here- Oh, so fricking tiny. Oh my gosh. So you can't actually start like you can in a standard Windows and then we gotta find the font that we want. Not that one. Can we at least We can't do that either. All right so- loo- I'm right here! Oh, that is really obnoxious. That's ter- okay, whatever. We're slider here. We can make it, like, Yeah, So we'll type out our, our font. You know, I think we just click off of it and then, here and move it around. So we at that. That's amAzing. Oh isn't a little bit. Let's go with a colorize. Oh yeah, And then maybe we'll change some of these like a beautiful image so. I think save this masterpiece. Oh, we have to in this collection here in the program, so go with 'high'. Location... and we'll just do it And there we go. There's our masterpiece and it saves it as a JPEG! we open this up? Because if it can't open an dumbest thing that I've ever seen in my life. Okay, so it's definitely something with does not like. 'Cause again, I mean I the My Pictures folder? I don't know, like copy of it, right, on the desktop? Or no. I don't think I did. 'Cause opened up with Paint and then, you My Pictures, and then just drag like, There it is! So it's just because folder? Or in My Pictures, and then inside the really odd. 'Cause you can't- like I'm it doesn't show any options over here. I can here, you know I can expand that. There's for whatever reason it doesn't like you would save... pictures to, usu- tha- *beep* All right. So last but not Bobblehead thing is, because So, you can pick either a video let's just go with video I guess? face in... the video &quot;Select the heads you'd like to use....&quot; Oh, I guess we have to So, we don't have any photos of people *laughs* We're just gonna pick the Blue Hills say like that that's the head And yep, there we go, that's the head &quot;Select the chin and the bottom lip.&quot; Okay. So this is gonna allow the mouth Okay, that's fine. We'll finish And then we have to do that You can see how this program can be just... never designed to do. up here? Like how do you, um... Okay you just have to double click So we'll select that one and that one. Oh my gosh, you can Oh no. Oh gosh. Okay so let's just do that. Let's get- this like birthday party hat *snickers* these sunglasses. Oh [composed] Okay, that's all the way to the right all the way to the left, let's see what we got. Okay, so we got some more sunglasses those. You know what I think we're just gonna We're just gonna pop the sunglasses on there. *pfffff* [composed] Oh it has to install... The installer just says Disney Pix 3.1, that it didn't install by default. Oh no. So it's play- *is cut off with laughter* ridiculous thing that I've ever- All right, we're just copyrighted or not but, we're absolutely saving So. Yeah. That- that's just one of the And I can hear the fans spinning up. control-shift-escape here. I'm curious what our Oh, yeah, that CPU is being maxed out. There we go. You know what this reminds Like, a hundred percent. dance around in this video here So we'll close out of that, before we end off this video, I'd like to do going to be, like the same process, So what's this one here, &quot;Love&quot;. Oh boy, select the &quot;Love&quot; one, and we'll- And we can customize them put like the sunglasses o- *succumbs to laughter* to make this, but this definitely has some... having people go in here and making all 'Cause you can use any image, obviously. you can just take a- like, a *laughs* like the sample photos here, Oh my g- really, Disney? You have to That's really obnoxious. Is there motion? I wouldn't think there is. I don't know what exactly that's I guess maybe they didn't bother to remove And they just left it in here? But. We can save this, and this should so let's just export it. And, yeah, So we'll open it up in Windows Explorer So this is the photo. We can zoom in on it here. So there's *breaks with laughter* &quot;I love you.&quot; Yeah. &quot;I love you&quot; *through laughter* But like, this is the most- fricking having to put their frickin' logo and Do they have it on the video here? Let's see... No they didn't! Look at that. There's nothing there. So it's them just like standing in front and, just bopping around I guess, And.. I'm sure it would look much better faces of real people on it, but I- you know, I mean it kind of looks like it's 360P. Oh there it is. 800 by 600. And it's 45 seconds long, 1,163 kilobits per second, and But yeah, so that's the Bobblehead which is definitely my favorite, uh thing in here. And that pretty much wraps it up for and, I pretty much knew I had to talk So thank you to everybody for watching. give it a thumbs up, get subscribed, And, as always, I will see you all in the next video. * Captioned by: Pineapples Foster Media Services *