Translator: Johannes Duschner Wow, hello, everyone. I'm going to put down my phone, and totally resist the urge to snap As Riaz said, my name and I am a sexologist. A sexologist is, in fact, a real thing. Do you believe me? Three of you, okay. So you're all on the side of my parents, I got the tiger mom. Well, a sexologist; what does that mean? That means, I spend a whole lot of time And almost no time actually having it. (Laughter) But I'm here today to talk to you We are in a time of crisis. We have a global epidemic It affects the young and the old Now, this problem is not unlike the economy, climate change for instance. But this crisis effects more of us, in a more personal It tears families apart. It takes the most detrimental toll and it's contagious. It's spreading. Yet somehow, we're captivated by it. I'm talking about the crisis Now, if I were to make you would you take it? If I said, invest in my fund, there's a 50 per cent chance Or sign this business deal, you've got a 50 percent Or hop on this flight, you've got a 50/50 shot Even if I offered you (Laughter) you'd probably say no. But the modern monogamous marriage offers even lower statistical odds when you factor in divorce rates Now, in North America, higher, if you count your second In my family sometimes Four, five, and six. You know already about my husband's fights because of Riaz. So I might as well divulge some info. Infidelity rates in North America depending on who's asking and who drank And research suggests that satisfaction rates after the honeymoon phase, Scary. Now, many young people Marriage rates are on the decline. Maybe because they've heard that married people than their single counterparts. And have you heard of mate poaching? Apparently, 60 percent of men - shame, shame - and 54 percent of women - we're not better, not much better - have tried to woo someone away What is going on? So when we combine these statistics, We see that in marriage 50/50 is in fact a best case scenario. Marriage is in a time of crisis. Now, I'm not suggesting that we do away I even picked one up for myself. (Laughter) I've been happily married living with him for 13. What I am saying is that marriage It doesn't matter that research and even better for men's health, And it doesn't matter with the most noble of intentions, right? To live happily ever after, to help them grow Because it doesn't always end up this way. Because of this failure in human design, marriage can be restrictive and even repressive in its demands In any other realm, if we saw failure rates we would do something about it. When the markets tumble, we adjust interest rates, we enact austerity measures, we develop stimulus packages. Right? (Laughter) If a car malfunctions in some way, we issue a recall, And if a superbug is unresponsive we go back to the lab When something doesn't work, when anything doesn't work, we innovate. So why do we accept in its current form, Could our relationships not benefit A temporary recall. Just overnight. (Laughter) Isn't it time we go back to the lab challenge the failing norm, and innovate? Now, some couples have already done this. They reject monogamy altogether. Swingers for instance, Surprise, surprise, the sexologist says. They have sex with other people Polyamorous have emotional, intimate, with multiple partners And open relationships that are custom designed by every couple or threesome or foursome, or moresome, Now, I know many couples Rosa and Dan for instance. After 22 years of marriage, Their words, not mine. So they decided to open and now they have lovers and they couldn't be happier. But like monogamy, open relationships only work An estimated four to five, not 45, with a good degree of success. The problem with open relationships We're okay with other people being open, but we don't want to share our partners. Happily ever after with one true soul mate has been too firmly ingrained So what we've determined so far is that over here we have the monogamous. Monogamy works Over here we have the non-monogamous, and that works for an even smaller And the rest of us, we fall somewhere in between. So what about the rest of us? Cheating isn't an option. I'm not even going to go there. So how do we find our happily ever after? Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed guests, I submit to you that the solution is to consider the gray area of the monogamish. (Laughter) This term has been around for some time. I remember hearing it as a kid when I shouldn't have been listening back in the 80s, but it became Dan Savage, more recently. And Dan used this term in which he is emotionally, monogamous with his partner, but sexually they're allowed So to me, that's more So what I suggest the philosophy of monogamish - to make it more accessible who fall into this gray area. Let's use monogamish to take the monotony out of monogamy in a way that preserves the sanctity, the safety, and the comfort So, monogamish, what might this look like? Monogamish couples for sexual stimulation. But only in thought, not in action. So if I'm monogamish, there might have been that was kinda cute. So I took a second look. I hope I didn't make him uncomfortable, I might have had a break I might think about him later tonight. (Laughter) But I'm never going to act And this thought and thoughts like it that are forbidden admitting to this thought serves because when we put out in the open, we serve to reduce their power, that we'll actually act upon them. So, we have thought, but not action, and then we have talk, but not touch. So monogamish couples for sexual arousal and pleasure Flirting with other people comes to mind So, bear with me a moment. Picture this: you're at a bar, Say you're with your husband. And there's a waitress Not too cute. (Laughter) We all have our limits. So you tease him a little: &quot;She's really cute, isn't she? You look hot tonight, Babe.&quot; She totally wasn't checking him out, but they all like With your coaxing, maybe, Maybe you get in on that flirting, too. Obviously showing her the utmost respect At the end of the night, you and your husband, not the waitress. (Laughter) Let's be clear here. You go home and you continue the fantasy. You weave it in the bedroom. You even talk about having a threesome. &quot;Oh Babe, you look so hot tonight. I totally want to bring her home with us. Yeah, I'd love to, absolutely, Can't you imagine, I'd love to share you.&quot; It's just talk. You pull out all the stops. You drive him into a frenzy and then you both get off, When you're done, you take him by the hand &quot;Don't even think about it.&quot; (Laughter) And he knows and says, &quot;Of course not, Babe, You're all I want. Can I get you anything, (Laughter) Isn't that how it should always end? Alright. You break the norms of rigid monogamy It's just talk. All the flirting, all the fantasy, You're never going So one shot deal. It's just talk, nothing more. Now, we have thought, but not action. We have talk, but not touch. And then we have couples, who make this foray into monogamish They relish in it, and they say, &quot;You know what? Let's take it to another level.&quot; Those couples might decide, Let's get a couple of lap dances.&quot; A few years later, maybe they work the champagne room. I don't even know what goes on in there. (Laughter) Maybe they love the dirty talk element but they don't want the threat So they call a phone sex line together. I know, it's not 1982, And they make a lot of money, Maybe they know someone who is a swinger, and they've been invited Now, they do not want to swing, but they like the idea of the environment, of being around this kind the edge, the sights, Not the smells, forget that. Just the sights, and the sounds, What we have to remember is a mindset, not a manner. You make it what you choose. If the strip club doesn't appeal to you, don't go. If the idea of flirting seems just too risky, don't do it. Maybe you opt instead or use a cam service for a little bit There is no universal formula And there's no formula for monogamish. I'm simply suggesting from considering options beyond the rigid norm of monogamy. So now, you're thinking, I love strippers.&quot; (Laughter) Right? And now guys don't even have six-packs, It doesn't sound bad. You're thinking, &quot;This sounds okay, How do I deal with the jealousy? Part of me would want to tear Or I don't want this ripped guys I can't handle that. I gained weight during her pregnancy, had a lot of cravings. Can't expect a man to have a six-pack So these are all valid concerns. I can't help you with the six-pack, but every couple deals these insecurities, these challenges, Some take baby steps. They don't dive into monogamish, They might start by simply admitting to which celebrities they find attractive. It could take them years to actually divulging their deepest, But these years, that process, A little bit of fear and anxiety, balanced with love, comfort, not only for love, but for lust. Other couples, in addition they decide to compartmentalize their monogamish element They say, &quot;I really like I love a little bit of monogamish, So maybe, they make a rule that they only talk about fantasies on special occasions. Or Tuesdays, or the month of March, whatever works for them. Maybe they love the idea because flirting is so much fun, it brings out the sexual animal in you, it boosts your self-esteem and it can actually be kind of hot to watch your partner flirt under the right consensual circumstances. But maybe they only do this once a year, Or maybe that bar with the waitress so they only do it when they're together whatever works for them. Some couples, they go after monogamish and they end up regretting it, but regret is not tantamount to disaster. Mistakes are the most important in a relationship. When we think of monogamish you can think of it as a rubber band. You can stretch it in this direction, but it still goes back to its solid form. You can stretch it over here, and it doesn't mean that you ever And if you stretch it this way, the next day, next month, next year - that you have to pull it further. In fact, you may not want to What we have to know is that progress They are not rigid. Now, as we look at monogamish, we can't just look at anecdote we also have to look at the science of why monogamish relationships in response to this epidemic There are, of course, for a successful relationship. However, there are some components that tend to be present The first is habit-formed, Scientists like to sound fancy. It means talking. Talking about your feelings. The good, the bad and the ugly. Admit when you're jealous, admit when you're feeling This is important. The second involves a balance It is all based in self-expansion theory. The self-expansion theory explains that we are most happy when our partners offer us Humans; we're animals, and we're programmed We have a hunger for it. And when our partners feed this hunger, we are more happy with them Now, the third component of a happy relationship An active sex life doesn't mean that you need to be swinging or every week, or every month. It just means that you put some effort Even the Pope and the Catholic cardinals Do you know why? Last week at the Vatican, these celibate men They got together to discuss but they did invite in experts. And one expert couple from Australia, who has been married for 55 years, told this group of entirely celibate men that their sex life has been, and continues to be, Very interesting to me. Now, in my job, I work with couples thousands per year. And what I've seen is that when couples consider opening up their definition of monogamy, it forces their relationship to thrive Emotional expression, and an active sex life become the norm, as soon as you start to see I'm going to give you an example I host a reality show, sorry to say this, and the reality show is for PlayboyTV, but I'm proud to say is one of the few So this show is about a big group and every weekend I bring in a new couple, a newbie couple, so they can decide if perhaps This house is called &quot;The Swing House,&quot; but I call it my personal lab because it allows me to observe couples expect for the cameras (Laughter) You forget that they're there Some of these newbie couples, they decide to dive in headfirst. They know that swinging Others, on the other hand, that they are not cut out And the interesting thing is, I learned so much from this second group because they don't want to be monogamous, and they don't want to be swingers. But the mere possibility actually brings them closer together. They are forced They are forced to balance with the needs of the individual. And of course, it's the PlayboyTV they're forced to think Now, I want to be really clear, I only use this example because In fact, they are practicing We might call it monogamy 2.0, Now, will becoming monogamish It only addresses one component But this is an important component, Sex is one of the most contentious issues And though monogamish it may be the lifeline we need to tilt the scales in favor We have to do something because we are in crisis mode. This crisis, the failing monogamous marriage, is pushing us onto the brink The monogamish solution but what is our other option? Failure? Whether we want to admit it or not, every couple in this room is at risk of failure. It's a statistical reality. So I leave you with one question: Would you consider and opening your minds if it meant you could shield strenghten your bond, and increase your chances Thank you. (Applause)