Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, sociopath but just don't know it. If you met a sociopath in real Most people think they know what a sociopath looks in movies and on TV hundreds of times. You may and reveal their hidden agendas, but sociopaths personalities are masters at hiding their selfish You may be friends or partners with a sociopath how do you know when you've met someone The word sociopath is widely used today to manipulative, and aggressive, but that's An actual sociopath is someone diagnosed with personality disorder or ASPD, which affects about known to exhibit high-risk behavior, manipulative and boundaries. Not everyone diagnosed and not everyone who is manipulative or aggressive ASPD are not threatening to anyone and may be behavior. But there are sociopaths out there who These malicious personalities disregard the their own benefit. If left to their own devices, and relationships, so it's essential that you If a sociopath does worm their way into your take advantage of and control you. They'll taking and taking until you have nothing left your life, like a friend or partner, listen to may not realize it, but the sociopath in 1. Manipulative Charisma getting on people's good side. They're They know what to say so that everyone falls under Below that charismatic exterior is someone Sociopaths use what's known as superficial not because they believe them, but your feelings. In other words, they To boost their reputation and advance overly charming and charismatic to a fault... 2. Making You Feel Trapped say something like, "You can't leave me They make comments like these over and over until never meet anyone who cares about you, but that's The truth is that there are plenty of people and respect -- people who would genuinely care may insist that everyone else is wrong for you, 3. They Can't Stop Lying dishonesty. We don't like lying to others, just will make up stories without batting an eye. personality types. They're so good at lying that That doesn't mean that everyone who lies it's usually because they're ashamed of real reason to bend the truth. Sociopaths lie people around them. When people buy into their which motivates them to lie even more. even about the smallest things, you 4. Explosive Communication with the respect they deserve. They'll take without a care in the world, but the moment If you have a sociopath in your life, you They become spontaneously enraged, turning a minor heated moments, they'll insult your character for your happiness or well-being. A sociopath as you never inconvenience them again. The goal of a sociopath in almost any They want to dominate every relationship and lead they want to feel like it's theirs for the sociopaths use subtle strategies or and undermine anyone who holds power over them. compliments to lower your guard and earn most attractive, intelligent, or interesting like you more than anyone they've ever met. But If you fall for these subtle tactics, a 6. Inverted Emotions or hardship? Let's say you're watching a movie you feel sympathy for its likable protagonist, This alone isn't a sign of sociopathy, but it may Most of us feel bad or guilty when a person and empathize with their hardships, but same way. If you know someone who ignores you may be dealing with a sociopath. Sociopaths take everything to the for example, they're unsatisfied with an average they exaggerate the truth, adding false details Their stories might be so extreme that you If this question consistently pops into your deceptive people tell extreme stories to make vibrant picture of their perfect life, but if you 8. Burning Past Bridges is a sociopath, look at their past relationships. burning bridges? Have they taken advantage It's uncommon for sociopaths to When someone isn't useful to them, they don't they'll tell you a different story. They'll weave But a pattern of broken relationships 9. Covering Lies with Lies their life. They make up stories from their past told long ago. The end result is a tangled web of but the more you question them, the If you notice something is wrong, don't expect and they will find some way to turn the tables to communicate or creating problems that you to feel doubtful of yourself because 10. Their Life is an Enigma about this person? Sociopaths tend to You might not know basic information, like what they find ways to change the subject or Even though they crave attention, sociopaths don't They want to know everything about but when the spotlight shines on them... 11. Total Lack of Understanding Sociopaths don't understand how people feel, a decision, they rarely consider how it affects If you're inconvenienced by their actions, You can try explaining to this person why you're others. But if you're dealing with a sociopath, 12. The 90% Rule Sometimes, a sociopath will do something that They might smile when someone gets hurt or take something offensive or refuse to apologize you might wonder, "Is this normal behavior, To answer this question, ask yourself whether people would do. If most people would act the But if 90% of people would you may be dealing with a sociopath. be sure to subscribe because more