In this Excel for beginners tutorial, I'll give you a quick so you can start to feel You'll have an idea where things are, how the spreadsheet is set up (upbeat music) When you open Excel on your You can decide between a blank workbook or if you've opened a you will see it pop up here. In this case, I'm just going to go ahead and create a blank workbook. This workbook isn't saved To save the workbook, just go here, click on save and then you can decide where you want to save it. You can also use the A single Excel file is also referred to as a workbook or a spreadsheet. A workbook consists of at least one sheet. You can easily add more sheets When you double click on a sheet name, you can change the name A sheet contains many cells, You can input numbers or text in here, just start typing and then press enter. If you want to replace this value, just go to that cell and start typing, you don't have to double Each cell has an address, the address of this cell is, it's D4, which means column D, row four. The intersection of a Up here, you have the formula bar. Once we input text here, we If I move to the cell to the Now if instead of text, you have formulas, so if I go to the side and then go with my arrow notice what's in the formula bar. It has the formula and not the text. In this case, there is no On the left here, we have the name box, this also shows us the so in his case it's D4, Now here's a useful tip for you, you can also use this to Just type in the cell address. So let's say I want to jump to A100, I'm going to type it in, press Now to jump back to the first cell, you can use the shortcut On the Excel grid, you can select multiple rows or multiple columns. Just go with your mouse or highlight columns, There are also a lot of So for example, the selects an entire column. If I hold down the shift I can select multiple columns. Now I have a separate and I've added the link to Now here, if you right mouse click, you're going to get a lot of options. You can for example, insert If I right mouse click again, I can delete the columns and since we're talking about shortcuts, a great shortcut is to use control plus to insert columns or rows and control minus to delete them. An Excel sheet has more than 16000 columns and over a million rows. Now you can see that by jumping if you use the shortcut key control and then the arrow down key. This jumps to the last row in Excel. If I use the control key I jump to the last column. Now the way to get back, do you remember where that shortcut was? That was control, home. Another term you need to know is range. A range is a group of cells. If I highlight this area, so just click on the first cell and then drag. If you want to use your keyboard key, just select the first cell and highlight the other Now how do I reference this range? What's the address of it? You reference it by on the top left hand corner and the bottom right hand So this would be D4 until F7. So you would write that as Now this is something that's So whenever you see a syntax like this, this is referencing a range of cells. If I wanted to move the value of this cell to another cell, I could So this here that you this is the selection icon. So you just go and click if you drag, you select a range. But here, if I move it to the boarder, I get this four arrows, When you see this, you can click and drag and you move the content of You can also use the and control V, to cut and paste. Okay, so we have the selection handle, we have the move handle, that's called the fill handle. So when you go to the side, you get this cross that symbol, if you drag that, you fill the content of the cells below with the cell above. So in this case, because I have text, I am filling them up with the text. If I drag the formula, up with the formula, so if I go here, it's the formula that's been copied down. Cells have a default size So for example, if I input it's going to go over to the next cell. So it looks like the contents of this is in these cells as well but it's not, it's only sitting in this cell. You can see that from the formula bar, when I'm here, there is To expand the column, I can hover my mouse over here and just drag. Or, I can double click to to be big enough to fit Now you might not want to you might prefer to So instead of it going and your column being so wide, you want to keep the width like this but you want the row to expand. Now even if I pull down the row, this is not going to wrap inside the cell. There is a setting for it gives you the ability to wrap the text. Now if you see that the whole because the new part is missing, just double click on the row If you want to unwrap this text, just click on the wrap setting here and it's going to unwrap it. You'll find a lot of widely if you right mouse click, on a cell, you get the ability to insert, delete, you add a comment and so on. If you right mouse click on a column, you get similar options that only apply to columns. Now let's take a look at Excel's menu. This is commonly referred It consists of different tabs, every time you click on a tab, the options in the menu bar change. The most common one is the home tab, here's where you can do formatting and common tabs like inserting, deleting or sorting and filtering data. If I go to the insert tab, or insert pivot tables. If you hover over a feature, about the feature and you can use for that Now it does pay off, if you take some time and go through the different tabs and the different options you have. One comment option I use is for example, to hide the grid lines. This is something you can under grid lines, take and the grid lines are gone. So this is good for creating Click it again and the Some of the groupings You can see that from So if I click this, I Now a lot of these options it's just these options but you might have some additional If you want to increase you can collapse the ribbon. Just go to this arrow here or use the shortcut key, control, F1. Every time you go and select a tab, the ribbon appears, when you To make it stick again, you can pin it or use the shortcut key, control F1. The file tab is different to the rest. This is also referred to Here you can see you can save it as PDF, or you can check which by going and checking your account. To go back to normal view, either use the arrow here or press escape. Now let's go to the data tab when it comes to inputting values. So here, I'm going to input for a few different months. I want to give this a headcount by department, and press enter. Now let's say I want to I can just type in Jan here. Now when I press tab, By default, if I press enter, If you want to press enter you have to press control enter. Now if I go to the next cell, I can type in Feb and then March and so on but Excel has this already built in. So if you type in Jan, it recognizes that this is a month, now notice I can see May I have June here. So now the first department is marketing, I'll just type it in. If you ever need to go to This is going to take you to the end of the text that you have, with that text, you can just start typing. So and sales for example. If you just start typing over the cell, remember, it's going to replace everything that was in the cell. I'm typing marketing here let's say type in 20 and then 20 and 20 and in case this is 20 again, don't forget that you So you can click and drag and if you want a shortcut for this, there is one, just highlight with the keyboard keys and then press control R. This is going to fill to the right. Now when you're on the end you jump to the cell below. One way to make it easier for you to input a bunch of data, is So in this case, when I highlight this, notice when I press tab and I get here and I press tab again, of the next row, so now I can type and then press tab, tab, tab and so on. To get out of this, or use the arrow key to Now I'm just quickly going and then let's do some formatting. Okay, so now we have some more data, let's adjust the formatting of this. I want to center this across my report. So highlight the range, go to When you click it, it automatically merges and centers the cell. We can make these bold, And while we're here, let's to match the content of the cell. So I'm going to highlight and then double click to make this fit. Now if it's too tight for you, you can expand this a little bit. If you just select any of these while the rest are highlighted, it's going to make the same Now you can go ahead and add color to this or add boarders, so here you'll have thick bottom In case you want to move so let's say I don't I want HR between marketing and sales, you can select it and to move it but while you're moving it, don't just drop it because it says there's already data in there, do you want to replace it? No, we definitely don't So what we want to do is bring it and put it in between marketing and sales. So while you're dragging this, hold down the shift key and it shows you where it's going to drop it. Now if you let go of the mouse, it's going to drop HR in Now you have other options if you don't want to use this combination, just right mouse click and cut or use the shortcut key control X and then go to where you right mouse click and insert cut cells. Let's give the title some color as well and if you ever adjust and you want to apply that you can use the paintbrush icon. So for example, let's say for and I want to apply I can just go and click on the paintbrush, click on the cell I want and it automatically Now this is not just for color, it's any type of formatting you have, it can be a combination of bold font, cell boarders and so on. If you want to apply that double click on this paintbrush and then you can reuse that formatting and apply to multiple cells. Once you're done, press If you want to sum up these values, you can go to home and sum them from here. There's also a great shortcut key for this which is alt equals. When you click it, it this is correct, you Now you can fill the rest in and the formula will be copied over and the ranges will reflect If you want to do this select your area and just alt equals and you're done. This wraps up our introduction to Excel in case you like to learn more about Excel and other features and functions, check out the other videos Now if you really like to master Excel and learn by solving actual problems, check out my Excel essentials Link to it is below the video. I hope you enjoyed this tutorial, if you did, hit that thumbs up and do subscribe to this channel in case you haven't subscribed already, so you can improve your Excel skills and learn some tips and tricks Thank you for watching and (upbeat music)