- [Man 1] Calling Space Control. Calling Space Control. Satellite SJ1 ready for scheduled report. Satellite SJ1 ready for scheduled report. Over. - [Man 2] Space Control to SJ1. Space Control to SJ1. We read you. Copy. - Space Control. Space Control. Come in, please. Come in, please. - Something's approaching us! - Space Control. Space Control! Come in, please. - [Man 3] Look at that. (alarm blaring) - Hey, you! Get on the SOS right away. We're being attacked. (all shouting) - [Man 4] Bring the radar in! - [Man 1] Space Control! Come in, please. Space Control! (suspenseful music) (gun firing) (all yelling) - [Man 1] Space Control! Space Control! Space Control! (lasers blasting) (suspenseful orchestral music) - [Engineer] We're We'll have to make it up. (ship humming) - Huh? (man groaning) (man gasps) (mysterious orchestral music) (man groaning) - Hey! The bridge is out! (man screaming) (train crashing) (dramatic orchestral music) - These are the headlines on your Tokyo TV news this morning. They are both unexplainable events. And now for an even we switch you to our reporter in America. - This is your announcer, Thomas Sheldon, with a special we picked The American freighter Blue Queen was passing through the Panama Canal when she was destroyed by a waterspout which left her a pile on the side of the canal. The cause of this (speaking foreign language) While you hear my voice, this is telling his public about a similar occurrence this morning. A powerful waterspout lifted tons of water from the canals of the city, flooding and destroying - In order to investigate the World Council has called to be held at the Space Delegates from various to arrive this morning. (dramatic orchestral music) (all chattering) - How do you do? (all chattering) Oh, it's so nice to see you again. - It is clear from an resulting from these three disasters that there was a common force The fact that the survivors is of particular significance indicating that extremely low temperatures were somehow produced. Now, what does this imply? Simply that by rapidly of a certain object, its gravity would also be decreased. - But isn't it impossible from a stationary object - Yes, you are right. You see, it's been considered But now it has happened here on Earth. My colleagues, Dr. Adachi have a brief analysis of on this subject which I will ask them to explain to you. - As you know, the cause of When the atoms of an its gravity is correspondingly diminished. At the temperature known as absolute zero, the atomic movement of an object is reduced to a state of rest and it becomes weightless. Owing to the centrifugal force of the revolving Earth itself, the object thus affected We are sure that the recent disasters were caused by a operation from space of some sort of freeze ray, which, by reducing temperatures abruptly (magnetic humming) was able to destroy the gravity- - Are you all right? - Don't worry. It's all right. (dramatic orchestral music) - Hello, Dr. Achmed. Has the conference ended? (suspenseful orchestral music) (magnetic humming) (Etsuko gasping) - Hold on, now. What's this? - It's Dr. Achmed. - Dr. Achmed. Where is he? - [Etsuko] He was right there. - Well, he isn't there now. You must be seeing things. Achmed's at the conference - But I'm sure. He was right there. - Oh, there you are. Iwomura. - Get the heat-ray gun set up. Firing test. Say, Katsumiya. - I think Etsuko's a little overtired. Try to cheer her up, huh? (laughs) - If we acknowledge the fact that the Earth has we must be prepared to admit that just as we can go from there must be other is superior to ours who have solved the problems - Dr. Adachi, what do is in coming to the Earth? - Wouldn't you say they came here impelled by the same kind of scientific curiosity we - Could it be they plan to - I only wish I knew the answers to these questions, gentlemen. I couldn't care to guess though I'm sure we all hope - Unfortunately, we do not But we should, by all means possible, continue to urge peace. On the other hand, however, to repulse them if attacked. (all applauding) - I hereby declare that (all applauding) (siren wailing) - Inspector Iriake of (all chattering) - Gentlemen, this is our new ray gun. It produces a narrowband energy radiation of the order of 600 megatherms. At maximum output it will fire continuously for 20,000 hours with a single charge of plutonium. We have lined up a series of targets composed of beryllium 19 which is, as you are no doubt aware, the hardest metal produced here on Earth. At present, this same alloy is being used for the skin of the SPIP 1 which is under construction. - We're ready, Doctor. - All right. Please stand back, gentlemen. (gun firing) (all chattering) Oh. Here, gentlemen, are the results of the test firing you have witnessed. (all chattering) (all chattering) These are our spaceships, the SPIPs. - Were they built in accordance - Why, yes, exactly. Why, do you find something wrong? - No, I think they're wonderful. - I have to confess, I am quite surprised. I didn't think you could - Well, we didn't do it alone. All the nations in the world did it. - It's marvelous all the same. Congratulations, doctor. (all chattering) - This way, gentlemen, this way. (all chattering) - We're mainly concerned with adjusting the instruments Actual firing is just - What is the deviation - Well? - Here. I was just checking the It's one to 100,000 in the atmosphere and one to 1,000,000 in outer space. - Hmm. (all chattering) - Kogure, are you ready? - Ready. - Will you connect the meter leads from the engine room to master control? Thank you. - You got it. - Ready. - Now I'll test the (turbine accelerating) (magnetic humming) - Doctor, I am Inspector I wonder if you can give - Yes, of course. - I'm looking for Dr. Achmed. Can you help me find him? - I believe so. He's around here somewhere. - Will you find him at There are reasons for my at the moment. - Dr. Achmed? - He isn't here, Doctor. He didn't come with us. - [Adachi] Where is he, then? (alarm blaring) - Yamek. Yamek. There's something wrong in the gun room. (all chattering) (both grunting) - What's going on here? Stop that! - The ray gun. I caught him. He was trying to steal it. - Achmed, is that true? How could you? - You're under arrest. Come with me. Hmm. - [Man 1] Get him! - [Man 2] Wait, Wait, Wait! - You wanna get me, eh? Well, come on! Cowards, all of you! Eventually, you'll be our slaves. The whole Earth will for our glorious planet, Natal. - Achmed. No, don't. Wait. Get back. Oh! (all clamoring) (woman screams) - [Man] There he is! (men yelling) - [Iriake] Look! A flying saucer. Everybody down. (suspenseful orchestral music) (Achmed yells) (Achmed yelling) (beam blasting) (all murmuring) - Take that one. - There's something there. - Certainly does. - Disappeared completely. - Here, doctor. Here are the pictures. It's some kind of - How atrocious. Implanted in Achmed's brain. It would make him respond (all chattering) (crowd applauding) - [Commander] It is clear of the planet Natal have established an And they are planning to attack Mankind has lived on the Earth Now he must be prepared to resist the attacks of of outer space. (crowd applauding) We are going to send two Dr. Adachi, the eminent scientist will command the crew of the first ship. (crowd applauding) Dr. Richardson will command (crowd applauding) Now, for the details of the flight. Dr. Adachi, will you tell - Well, of course. We have to consider this as We expect to land at a point 100 kilometers north of the Sea of Rains. Our radio telescopes indicate that mysterious radio signals are being transmitted from that area. (light orchestral music) - Isn't it beautiful? (both sighing) And there are creatures up - I know. Mm. Yes, but it looks more beautiful when you imagine that there's a, a prince waiting up there who's going to come down - I think that we humans will gradually lose - Oh. Oh Katsumiya. Isn't there one thing that - Hmm? - There must be one thing. - Hmm? - Don't you understand what I mean? - Hmm. - That there's one thing We'll always love each other, On the Earth or on the moon. - Well, I guess, you know, I wonder. - Ah! No. I won't let it. It just can't. Our love will never change. Say that you'll love me forever. - Forgive me. I'm sorry. I was just teasing. (both chuckling) (car horn honking) - Wait. Be careful, darling. - Hmm. (man laughs) You really had us worried. - Oh. (laughs) - The way you were making I worry about that. - Uh-huh. - You were spying, huh? - Oh, all right. Let's all go to town. How would you like that? - Where? - I'd like to have some fun. There won't be any on the moon I know. - You can be sure of that. - That's right. So before we go, I'd like to Do you want to come along? - Why not? - I don't think so. I'm doing all right here. - Watch out for that guy, Etsuko. (all laughing) Well, I guess I'll go by myself. See you later. Goodbye. (big-band music) (magnetic humming) (warbling) - [Man] Be calm. It is useless to struggle against us. Have courage. This will not hurt very much. Now it is over. We have implanted our life in your brain. And you are now our slave. Hereafter, you will do We welcome you as a new servant of the glorious planet Natal. Now, go. Go. Go! (dramatic orchestral music) (car horn honks) - Hey, you. Get a move on. You can't park your car here. - Huh? - Look, now. What's wrong with you? Your forehead's bleeding. What happened? - Huh? (horn honks) (light orchestral music) - [Reporter] There's a waiting for that moment will be recorded in the annals of mankind. Far across the spacious I can see the spaceships standing silently on their launching pads waiting for the moment when they will carry aloft the hopes of the world. - Present arms! (upbeat marching music) Order arms! (upbeat marching music) (crowd cheering) (crowd cheering) - The commander of the first ship will be Professor Richardson. Dr. Adachi commands the second ship. Each crew consists of nine - The launching pad. The cars have stopped and the elevators in the gantries. The fueling of the ships Everything is in In a few moments, the countdown will begin and our two spaceships will - Everything is ready, sir. Please be seated, gentlemen. Report when ready for - Let him know that we are ready. - We are ready and starting countdown. Are you all right? - Yeah, I'm all right. - [Adachi] Would you request - You can say the second SPIP is ready. - We are ready and counting. Fueling completed. - [Adachi] Fueling number Remove gantry. - [Woman] 50 seconds. 40 seconds. - [Man] Ignite your primary Ignite your primary burners - First stage, full power. Mooring safeties released. - [Woman] 10, nine, eight, seven six, five, four, three, two, one. - [Man] Fire. (rocket blasting) (suspenseful orchestral music) (man groans) - Good. Start space procedures. - Space procedure. - Reduce thrust to zero. - Thrust to zero. (dramatic orchestral music) - Well, gentlemen, looks (all chattering) - You can release your belts now. (all sighing) (man gasping) (all murmuring) - Don't just stand there, help me down. Give me a hand. Help me down. (all laughing) - You have to remember, there's - Yes, sir. - You gotta be careful. Put everyone on space procedure. (all chattering) Doesn't this weightless - It certainly does, Roger. - Calling SPIP number two. Come in, please. I want your cruising report. Over. - SPIP number two calling SPIP number one. Skin temperature, 361. Normal fuel consumption. Everything okay. Space radar ready and go. - [Richardson] Space radar number one. Space radar number one. Unidentified object bearing - [Man 1] This is radar two. We have unidentified - What is it, doctor? Are they enemy saucers? - We can't be sure yet. Check it on the scope. - Very well, sir. Get that scope out! 321, second quadrant. Scope power on. - [Man 2] Power on, sir. (suspenseful orchestral music) - It's what's left of the satellite. - Hmm. Let us say a prayer for them. (dramatic orchestral music) - At 42 hours, the present is 306,000 kilometers and the attraction is 0.17. - Good. - How far to the moon? - 10 more hours, at the current rate. It's 70,000 kilometers to the moon. (magnetic humming) (man groans) - I got a signal from the moon. - Radar, how about it? - I don't have anything. (man groaning) - What's wrong? - [Katsumiya] Iwomura! Iwomura! - What's wrong with him? - [Okada] Hey. I've got something here. Two pips. - [Scope Tech] I've got them (suspenseful orchestral music) - They're dead ahead. They'll crash into us. - [Adachi] Get the ray gun ready! - Ray gun. - [Man] Ready, sir. - What could they be? - Some sort of guided missile. (suspenseful orchestral music) - [Adachi] Keep tracking closely. Fire when they're in range. - [Katsumiya] Very good, sir. - Prepare the ray gun. - It's ready, sir. This is SPIP number two. We are prepared to give battle. (suspenseful orchestral music) - Contact! (lasers blasting) (magnetic humming) - [Man] Listen, earthling. Cut the power to the heat-ray gun. Cut the power to the heat-ray gun. (suspenseful orchestral music) - Where's Iwomura? I must have some help. - Okada. See what's happened to Iwomura. - [Okada] Yes, sir. - [Man] More raiders coming in! - I've got them on the scope, and there are two saucers behind them. (suspenseful orchestral music) - Hey! Iwomura! What are you doing? Hey, wait! Stop that. Leave it alone! What's wrong with you? Are you crazy? (man grunting) (suspenseful orchestral music) - Fire! (laser blasting) - What's wrong with that ray gun? - [Scope Tech] I can't locate the trouble. - [Katsumiya] What's Check the oscilloscope. - [Scope Tech] We'll have to switch over to the auxiliary generator. - [Kogure] What's wrong, number two? What's wrong? They're going to ram you! They're going to ram you. (men grunting) - It's no use, Doctor. - Prepare for evasive action. - Very good. - Get tied down. - [Katsumiya] Strap in Right rocket ports open. Full thrust, Doctor, and strap in. (suspenseful orchestral music) (laser blasting) (explosion booming) - All right. Correct our deviation at once. - Yes, sir. - Find out what happened - Yes, sir. - Get the controls off the line. - Over. (Etsuko gasps) - [Etsuko] What happened to him? - Okada, what's wrong with him? - I caught him working - He was shutting off the power. - [Man] What? - Put him here till he wakes up. (magnetic humming) - [Man] You earthmen are fools. We warn you, do not approach the moon. Do not approach the moon. If you do, you will surely die. - [Adachi] Dr. Richardson, - Of course I did, but we - I agree with you that we must persevere. To turn back now would - [Man] Listen well, earthmen. We repeat our warning. Do you want to die? Obey our command and return to Earth. - Eh. - [Adachi] To your stations, men. - [Crew] Yes, sir. - They're running back to their moon base. - Hadda. - Iwomura seems to be in shock. Try to make him comfortable at least. - Right. - We're in the moon's gravity field now. Start your reverse! - Full reverse thrust. Stop and turn around. - How can I? We'll be a perfect target - I know that. Notify number two. - Hello, number two. We're going to reverse propellant. Hold on. - This is Adachi, Professor. The fate of the entire We must proceed with - Roger. - Excuse me, sir. In order to escape radar detection we'd better land as close as possible to the mountain in section six. - Yes, you're right. We are changing our point of impact to the east side of the Do you agree? Over. - Very well, then. The east side of the Over. - [Richardson] Roger. Over and out. - He's out of harm's way now. - [Man] Yes, sir. - Rate of descent, zero. - Azimuth, 1-0. above the mountain. - Altitude, down and slow. - Roger. (suspenseful orchestral music) - [Man] Reverse altitude. - [Man] Altitude, 105. - Our approach angle is 109. - Increase thrust, 10 G. (suspenseful orchestral music) - She's down. - Secure the ship and prepare to land. Cut your turbines, Okada. Okada. - Huh? - Make sure Iwomura can't do any harm. - Want me to tie him up? - It would be better for everyone. - All right. - [Man 1] Check your oxygen. - [Man 2] Don't worry, I checked it. It's all right. - [Man 3] Turn around, Okada. Let me check yours. - [Man 1] It's all right, isn't it? - [Man 3] Good shape. - [Man 1] Just a minute, check the radio. Is it working all right? - [Man 3] Can you hear me? - [Man 1] Yes, I hear you. - [Man 3] Very well, then, let's go. (mysterious orchestral music) - Dr. Adachi, what was - He's a victim of the enemy's brain wave. We have to leave him here. (mysterious orchestral music) - Welcome. - Oh oh, look, the Earth. (mysterious orchestral music) - [Okada] Oh! Help, help! Help me! Help me. (grunting) - [Katsumiya] Look, I told you about that. The gravity here is much - Yes. I remember now. - Dr. Adachi, we finally made it. - Yes, we finally did, but our We've got to find where are coming from so we can destroy them. So good hunting, and let's keep together. - We're ready. (dramatic orchestral music) (magnetic humming) - [Man] Wake up. Wake up. You haven't completed your mission yet. Wake up. (suspenseful orchestral music) - I get a radio bearing, - Good. Try to keep track of it. - Let's go after it. - Yes. New heading, 30 degrees right. (suspenseful orchestral music) Get in the observation dome. Ground car to SPIP 1. Is everything in order? - [Man] Everything in order here, sir. (magnetic humming) - [Man] Listen well, earth man. Your mission is to blow You must blow them up. Do it quickly! - (gasps) Flying saucers. (suspenseful orchestral music) - [Katsumiya] They must be watching us. - [Adachi] Be careful. - [Katsumiya] Right. - Get number two car. - [Richardson] Did you - Yes, we just saw them now. They seem to be following us. Be careful. - [Richardson] Don't worry, we will. (suspenseful orchestral music) (man coughs) (man grunts) - Dr. Adachi, have you - [Adachi] What? - [Man] Look at the - Check the air-cushion system. - Air-cushion system okay. - Cushions on. (suspenseful orchestral music) - [Richardson] Hello, Doctor. - [Adachi] Hello, Professor. (magnetic humming) - [Man] You must hurry. Time is running out. - [Man] Oh, flying saucers. Take cover. (high-pitched humming) - They must've come from a station hidden on the other side of those mountains. - Yes. The only thing is, we'll We better go on foot. (suspenseful orchestral music) We'll leave the cars here and go on foot to search (magnetic humming) - Reactor working. Radar working. (grunting) (suspenseful orchestral music) - How much further? Here's where we are. (suspenseful orchestral music) (magnetic humming) - [Man] Good. Close the cooler valve. And now the other one. (suspenseful orchestral music) - [Katsumiya] Hey! Look at that. It's a tunnel. - [Richardson] It must - [Adachi] Yes, be careful, everyone. - [Man] Look in there. This must go right through the mountain. - It must be an entrance - They'll have it guarded. - No doubt about that. Kogure. Bring up the number one car. - [Kogure] Okay. (suspenseful orchestral music) (magnetic humming) - [Man] Very good, Iwomura. Now do the same to the other ship. Blow it up. Keep moving. Go ahead. (suspenseful orchestral music) - This is the base from which they plan to launch their attack on Earth. - Then we must destroy it. - It doesn't seem to be completed yet. - [Man] There must be if we could only find out how. (suspenseful orchestral music) - Doctor, let me try to sneak in. - That's out of the question. - I could destroy at least a part of it. - He's right, and I want to go with him. The longer we wait, the - Let me go with them. - Let's go. Tell Kogure to get that right away. - [Katsumiya] And be careful, please. - [Etsuko] I will. (aliens chattering) (Etsuko gasps) (aliens chattering) (Etsuko gasping) (aliens chattering) - [Katsumiya] I'm going all right, Doctor? - No, not yet. Wait until the heat-ray cannon gets here. (suspenseful orchestral music) (explosion booming) - I think I heard Etsuko scream. - [Adachi] You'd better go after her. - [Katsumiya] Yes, sir. (aliens chattering) Etsuko, where are you? - Katsumiya, run away! (laser blasting) (Etsuko gasps) (all chattering) (Etsuko grunting) Katsumiya! Save yourself! - [Katsumiya] Etsuko! Let her go! (grunting) Etsuko! Where are you? Here. Come this way! - [Etsuko] No, no, save yourself! Katsumiya. (laser blasting) (magnetic humming) - [Man] Earthmen, you Now you can no longer return home. You shall become our slaves. Lay down your arms and surrender. - [Adachi] Yuself! - The dogs. I'll make it stop. I'll kill it. - No, wait. The fire from your gun (magnetic humming) - [Man] This is your last chance. We will attack if you do not surrender within 10 seconds of Earth time. One. Two. - [Adachi] Out of the way! Get back. - [Man] Three. - [Adachi] Careful, now. - [Man] Four. - [Richardson] Easy does it. - [Man] Five. - [Adachi] Load the chamber! - [Richardson] Ready! - [Man] Six. - [Richardson] Fire! (laser blasting) (suspenseful orchestral music) (magnetic humming) - [Man] Now, hurry. You haven't much time. (laser blasting) (lasers blasting) - [Man 1] Let's get out of here. - [Man 2] Back to the car. (all shouting) (lasers blasting) - Hey, doctor. Captain. - Look at that. It's the other car. Katsumiya! (lasers blasting) (explosion booming) - He did it! He destroyed the dome! (explosion booming) (static crackling) - What's that? What should I do? What? Oh! What did I do? (laser blasting) (explosion booming) - [Etsuko] Dr. Adachi! - Katsumiya is waiting. Come along. There's no time to lose. - [Okada] Hurry, hurry! - Here they come. (all chattering) - [Richardson] Into the cars. - [Okada] Watch it. Careful with the guns. - [Richardson] Move Quickly. (all chattering) Come on, men, move. On the double. Anybody left in there? - [Adachi] Come on, Doctor, get in. - I wonder what happened to - There isn't very much with their home base destroyed. - I only hope they don't get - The air pressure's dropping. - You're right. - 23, two, one. 20, 19. - We're going down. - Saucers! Behind that peak there! (high-pitched humming) (laser blasting) (explosion booming) (lasers blasting) (man groans) - What's wrong? - [Man] Number two car is disabled. - Cut your power. We'll have to pick them up. (suspenseful orchestral music) (lasers blasting) - Hurry! Come on, come on. - [Man 1] Come on, come on. Hurry! - [Man 3] Wait for me! - [Man 1] Come on. - [Kogure] All here, sir. - You fought well, Kogure. - Back to the ships. Quickly. - Can you contact either ship? - No one answers. - Look. - They've been here. - I wonder why they didn't - Maybe they were driven off. - Doctor, what do you think - I don't know, but I doubt if he's alive. You men, investigate the ship. - Yes, sir. - Prepare the elevator But above all, be careful. - [Both] Yes, sir. - Here they come. Get inside, quick. Kogure! Take cover, run! (high-pitched humming) (laser blasting) (laser blasting) (explosion booming) - [Man] Look! It's Iwomura! Over there. He's shooting at them over there. It's Iwomura! (laser blasting) - Iwomura! - Katsumiya! I blew up the ship. Forgive me. They had me in their power. But now I'm free. I'll stay here and hold them back while you, go on, blast off. - Iwomura! (dramatic orchestral music) (laser blasting) (explosion booming) Goodbye, all of you. Good luck. Goodbye, Katsumiya. Etsuko, goodbye. I wish you happiness. Goodbye, doctor and all my friends. Good luck to all of you. (alien ray guns buzzing) (lasers blasting) (explosion booming) (dramatic orchestral music) - It's so sad. Iwomura had to die to help us get away. - Mm. - No. We can never bring him back but now we can fight. (dramatic orchestral music) - [Narrator] An explosion of the surviving spaceship to the Earth. An explosion that was to and change the entire Earth with but one single point of view. All over the world, people of to seek safety in a common union. They insisted that their against this common enemy and for the defense of the Earth. From country to country, And it echoed across until it was heard in the - We must check, by every the barbarous ambitions - They are bound to fall after reinforcing their base. - Doctor, can you estimate how big a lead they have over - Theirs is quite advanced At least from the time viewpoint. While their theoretical knowledge may not be very far ahead of ours it is clear that we should be in the best way we can. I suggest that the small scouting craft we now have undergoing trials should be converted into fighter ships to intercept the attacking - Gentlemen, we are at I am sure each and every one of us agrees that diplomatic procedures can be bypassed in the present emergency. And we should mobilize. (all applauding) (dramatic orchestral music) - [Narrator] An emergency order for the construction of rockets was issued to all advance Day and night, men and machines struggled to complete production schedules in time. The fate of the world hung in the balance. (dramatic orchestral music) On the cold Siberian mushroomed into growth to be followed quickly by on the plains of Texas and in Japan. (dramatic orchestral music) (machine clicking) - Unidentified object Range, 8000 miles. - That would put them about here. - Stay with them, on red alert. - Yes, sir. Red alert. - Check on Siberia. - [Katsumiya] Texas, is it ready? - [Man 2] Ready. - [Katsumiya] Ready in Tokyo? (siren wailing) - This is Space Control calling Russia. Over. - Immerman speaking. My first fighter squadron - We've done our best, professor. There really isn't much more to say. - This better work the first time. We won't be able to send anyone else out. - That's so. (suspenseful orchestral music) - Rocket one calling Space Control. Over. - [Man] Space Control to Over. - Cruising in E sector. Objects approaching on course. Looks like it might be the enemy. Moving in to investigate. (suspenseful orchestral music) It's a large force of enemy saucers. They're escorting a mothership We are going in after them. - An all-out offensive. - Attention, emergency. Enemy forces are approaching. All defense units report to - [Man] Five, four, three, two, one. - Zero! (suspenseful orchestral music) - [Pilot] This is group B. Altitude, 4000 kilometers. We'll rendezvous in 30 seconds. (suspenseful orchestral music) - This is the captain of Altitude, 5000 kilometers. I have the enemy in sight That is all. (suspenseful orchestral music) (lasers blasting) - Get them. (lasers blasting) (explosion booming) (explosion booming) (explosion booming) - They've fired a space torpedo at Earth. (man grunts) (suspenseful orchestral music) (explosion booming) - [Pilot] This is group leader A. Space torpedoes approaching Earth. Space torpedoes approaching Earth! - You must leave your Destroy the torpedoes. - Right. - The mothership has gotten through, escorted by six saucers. - Get them. - [Man] Do you have - Yes, sir. They're in the second sector on a gradual approach. We will track. - Don't let them get away. (suspenseful orchestral music) (lasers blasting) - [Pilot] One saucer is approaching Earth behind several space torpedoes! (siren wailing) (explosion booming) (siren wailing) (explosion booming) (siren wailing) Mothership is approaching Mothership is approaching (ships humming) (laser blasting) (laser blasting) (laser blasting) (laser blasting) (laser blasting) - Group A reporting. We have destroyed the enemy The mothership and one saucer. - Keep out of the way, then. We'll take over now. - Enemy coordinates are 30 degrees north of the space terminal (suspenseful orchestral music) - [Commander] Ray gun ready? Standby. Fire! - Fire! (lasers blasting) - [Pilot] This is group A reporting. We are very low on fuel It's up to you now. The enemy saucer and mothership Over. - Well done, group A. (suspenseful music) - Katsumiya. - Prepare to fire. Contact. (lasers blasting) Ready, two? - Fire! (lasers blasting) (explosion booming) (lasers blasting) (explosion booming) (all shouting) - Here's a report from Space No indication of further enemy activity. - Well Commander, looks like - [Man 1] Well, gentlemen, I guess we really showed - [Man 2] Dr. Adachi, we did it. (all cheering) - Hey, Papa! (woman chuckles) Well done, major. - Commander, the colonel's son. - Well, hello there, big fellow. - Come on, now. - Papa, how many enemy saucers were there? - Well, you can read all Well, goodbye, Commander. and have a nice trip. - Uh-huh. - You can terminate the alert. - Yes, sir, I will give the order. All station, the alert is over. Conditions green. (all cheering) - [Man] We're free! The world is saved! We are free! We're safe! - Katsumiya, I'd like you I'm going to talk to the rocket pilots. - Right, sir. Let's go. (all chattering)