CC by Aberdeen Captioning male announcer: &quot;In Touch,&quot; of Dr. Charles Stanley. Reaching the world Next on &quot;In Touch,&quot; Dr. Charles Stanley: Why would a over all these Why would they go bankrupt? Unwise decisions that probably Why would a family choose to buy that they cannot afford, but Unwise decision. Why would a person marry just Not thinking about other things. Unwise decision. Why would a person drink their children early in life, dad sometimes being drunk? Thinking nothing of the unwise decision. When you think about the kind of would you say that the decisions or unwise? I think about people who never for their life. They make decisions based on what makes them feel good or never asking, &quot;What's the Unwise, unwise decision. And we could go through life that people make. For example, they stack up the point that they know they Why do they do that? Unwise decisions. People make unwise decisions important thing in their life, of Almighty God. What place does God have in Are you going to live it on your enough to seek the wisdom of God So, let me put it this way Before you make any decision, question: is this a--is this There is always an answer. Is this the wisest thing to do? Whether it's marriage or whether or health, or Is this the wisest thing to do? That's always the right or minor: is this the Somebody says, &quot;Well, I don't We're coming to that. But living wisely is Wisdom is a gift from God. Living unwisely is a very every aspect of our life. So, when we turn to this passage what we really see Paul doing is day, and those Corinthians, the smartest folks in the world, very wise, humanly speaking. But there's a difference between So, I want you to turn, if you chapter three and I want us to beginning with that. And there are a number of verses But I want you to keep asking that are before you today. That when you get home today or the coming weeks, Are they going to be wise So, listen to what he says in verse nineteen, and notice what world is foolishness Look at that, &quot;The wisdom before God.&quot; The way the world thinks, apart 'He is the one who catches the You don't get away with it. There are consequences. And again, &quot;The Lord knows that they're useless.&quot; He says it's empty, they make no one boast in men. For all things belong to you.&quot; And so, he's comparing Paul and &quot;Whether Paul or Apollos or or death or things present all things belong to you.&quot; They were trying to compare Then he says--and look at this Christ, and Christ When I think about single verses powerful they are and how full to the top. Listen to this, &quot;And you belongs to God.&quot; Therefore, if we belong to And I would ask you: You either belong to God through devil, one of the two. Some people say, &quot;Well, I don't Unwise belief. So, with that in mind, I want us wise and unwise lifestyle and And the Scripture distinguishes So, let's look at wise living And the first thing we want to true, genuine wisdom? Godly wisdom, Godly wisdom is viewing How does He see them? And then responding to those Word of God teaches. So, if I look at things from am I going to find that? I'm going to find that And so, a person who says, &quot;I stuff,&quot; what you are saying is, life, I will make foolish consequence I would never have If you're so smart that you live it happily or peacefully or apart from the teachings of the the fool. It is foolish, you cannot. And the Bible teaches it all illustration where we So, think about that. It's the capacity to view things on the basis of that, You're facing a decision, The question is this: what is If I'm going to find that out, I of all wisdom, and that's To leave God out of your life is a fool who hears the Word of God out, says, &quot;I don't want any of thinking wisely. You're thinking foolishly. So, when we look at this passage in mind, think about this: He knows everything. He knows about yesterday. He knows about today. He knows about tomorrow. He knows what happened yesterday We only know what humans God has absolute, total, about every single thing. He's never behind because He and future. Nothing ever startles Him He knows perfectly before, So, it is only wise to consult and who has never said, Oh, I never thought about that.&quot; You say, &quot;Well, what They went through this problem, this tragedy. Not without God knowing it. Not without God's plan. And what He allows oftentimes But that's knowledge. It's not beyond the wisdom and plan of God. It's--the world's foolishness is They think they know when only That's why believers We are a part of We're set apart by God through to do what? To allow Him to live His life We are, listen, we are the God whose names are in the eternally secure in Him, and who single day. We can come to Him and ask Him be made and He is willing to But if you don't know Him, if And I say this not to be critical, but to tell the truth. That's the only thing I'm up That if you live in disobedience &quot;I don't need omniscience. I don't need omnipotence. I don't need omnipresence. I can handle it. In this mixed up, crazy, sinful, a foolish conclusion. A foolish conclusion. We all need Almighty God. All of us need Him every day. And so, when I look at these in this particular passage, he is foolishness,&quot; in Because you see, if you took over here, in all the beaches of sand in all the beaches in knowledge and understanding we don't have it. We don't have it. If you don't believe, look at Well, look at what's happening You wake up one morning Wake up the next morning, Let me ask you something: when's television or read the newspaper going on, you said, &quot;Finally No. It's not true. So, what do Christian's do? Are we supposed to be worried and fearful and going to bed to happen? No, we know what's Listen, we're sleeping in the never sleeps, who has all of every single thing. Listen, we are His children. How foolish to live apart from possible to have everything we for us to have. So, human reason is deficient. It takes godly wisdom to live every single person really And when we're living wisely, about all these things. And if you'll think about this, wise, that is a person who is to be able to see things with They're going to be able to hear don't hear. This is why somebody can say persuasively or very arrogantly walking in His Spirit, and you They send two messages. Here's what you heard them say. Here's what they said. And there's a lot of difference. Children of God who are walking wisdom of God because that's His And the problem is, if we ignore and we think, &quot;Oh God, And God is saying, &quot;I've You weren't listening. You listened to other people. You decided what you wanted, not what's best for you.&quot; So, when we're living wisely, And what is it? In essence, to make it simple, going to be able to walk through of life. We're going to walk through no way to walk. We're going to be able to walk circumstances and heartaches could ever endure. But when you're walking wisely, God says, &quot;This is the next and this is the next step, and You know why He doesn't tell us He knows we can't--you can't You couldn't stand to know where So, what does He do? Step by step. And so, we ask Him for, &quot;Lord, decision?&quot; This is the step. &quot;What shall I do in this?&quot; And you see, if we just decided we just go plowing through the and the pain. We find ourselves God, remember, He loves us He loves us enough to keep our and true and genuine. But then there's the other life. There's the people So, I want you to turn, if you over to James, and I want you In this third chapter and verse And it's similar to what Paul wise and understanding? Let him show by his good gentleness of wisdom. But if you have bitter jealousy heart, do not be arrogant This wisdom is not that but is earthly, natural, Now, I want you to think There are two different There's the wisdom of God and through man's thinking. And I want you to notice He says, &quot;This wisdom is fashion. It is earthy, natural, Now, what does Here means by earthy, that it's It's limited to man's reasoning attempts and his That's how limited that is. Well, how, listen, how We might be able to invent this, that, and the other, but And so, we can think about all his knowledge and understanding Can't do anything without God. It's earthy. So that's one part of the-- And then secondly, he says, That is, we all have a that part of us that--that part God, that part of us that That part of us that desires You may not yield to it, but all in us. Some people call it Call it what you want to, And so, he says those who are is earthy, doesn't get anywhere. And secondly, it's natural, It relates to the fallen nature, Corinthians chapter two, verse natural man does not accept the they are foolishness to him, and because they are spiritually So, you get into a discussion believe what you believe about or holy things. And you know what, we say, believe that?&quot; And you know why they can't? Because God said they couldn't. Apart from the Spirit of God, understand the things of God. Man's knowledge, it's earthy, Secondly, it's natural, But then he says, for example, Its root is found in So, go back to Genesis Everything was absolutely convinced Eve. She believed a lie, and look at There are many people today, and listened to the devil's lie. You've listened to Him say Those church people are weak. You can handle it. You're smart enough You've got position, you've got you got talent. You don't need that religious Mark it down. That is the voice of the devil. The Word of God says it is It deals with your naturalness of you. And if you listen to Satan's you, &quot;Well, this is The issue is this: what is When your children come to you should I do about this, What do you say to them? &quot;Well, let me think about it.&quot; Or do you say to them, &quot;No.&quot; Well, why not? Well, why don't you say to them, and my conclusion is it's not One thing we need to instruct that question: what is the wise Not what is everybody What's the wisest thing to do? What, in other words, On the basis of His omniscience omnipotence, having all power, the middle of everything The question is: what is What is the wisest thing to do? Listen, sometimes the wisest agree with it. But you know what? Remember all their knowledge of God. You, listen, you can't You cannot ever go wrong Never! So just because you don't it's not right. The wisdom of God who has about all people. And I could just spend the rest giving you examples that flip to obeyed God and times I haven't. And it's all--it all goes back to do? Now, can you tell me a better Not really, because therein And so, what he does, he shows Scripture, in James, Look at this in this third thirteen, &quot;Who among you is wise Let him show by his good gentleness of wisdom. But if you have bitter jealousy, do not be arrogant and lie Look at this, this is a group of &quot;This wisdom is not that which earthly, natural, and demonic.&quot; And you and I live around that's true of them. They think they have They leave God out of it, and prove to you why they're right. Now, they may have position and finances. They may have all of that. Does that make them No. They may be smart in many areas, of your life, you're not That's just demonic, and that your life earthy, natural, Look at that: jealousy, And if you'll notice here on says, &quot;But the wisdom that's to this, &quot;pure.&quot; Look at that. God's wisdom is pure. That means it is Did you get that? It is absolutely perfect wisdom. It's, &quot;Pure, and peaceable,&quot; his &quot;gentle,&quot; there's nothing harsh from God's viewpoint, &quot;full of unwavering without hypocrisy.&quot; That's the wisdom of God. Listen, would you not agree something else? Look at that passage, &quot;The wisdom, &quot;pure, peaceable, mercy, good fruits, unwavering, That's the kind of life Amen? Now, what did he say up here, disorder, and every evil thing.&quot; Only two choices in life, you can choose to live unwisely. And may I say this? You've already made that choice. Wherever you are, you're walking or you're walking in the Change paths if you're Listen, you're not smart enough. You may think you are, Apart from Almighty God Jesus Christ, who forgives us writes their name in the Lamb's and lives presently within us He will give us wisdom in every There is no other way to live. You can trust Him. He's not going to change on You have two choices to live out obediently before Him, Or you can live foolishly, do a lot of things, go a lot of Then you're going to die. And my friend, when the last I have a strong feeling you're The most tragic thing you can do You know why? Because the consequences May not live the best life May not have a lot of stuff. May not have any degrees May not have any notoriety. Most people never know you, and all that stuff, You've walked obediently You see, God's values are not What He thinks is absolutely the world thinks. So, you make up your mind. You going to live wisely? Or you're going You'll be wise if you choose And that's my prayer for you. Father, how grateful we are And knowing that You loved us for us and pay our You must have an And so, we want to be obedient who end up profiting from that And I pray that every person who think, think honestly and the truth. &quot;It is appointed unto man once the judgment.&quot; But all sin can be forgiven and trusting. We love you, dear Father. We thank You for the awesome all of us, in