Early on December 16th, 1944, three German counterattack on the thinly held allied line Their goal is to turn the tide of the war The "Battle of the Bulge" sees a month before the Allies stop the Germans - but In the second half of 1944, Nazi Germany's seriously worsened after the allied landings The liberation of so many occupied territories resources. Reich Minister for Armament and Ammunition that Germany only has enough resources for In the face of this catastrophic situation, Hitler on July 20, 1944 - but he narrowly Hitler decides that in order to regain domestic front, he has to launch a successful counterattack Meanwhile the western allies are troubled through western Europe. They decide to temporarily pause offensive On the eastern front, the Soviets cross the but the Germans manage to stop them. Now they are preparing a winter offensive In Germany, radical measures and maximum mobilization programme enable the Nazi-regime to build This is a last-ditch effort, but even so German than ever before, despite Allied bombing. On the downside, from the German point of new units are usually low. Veteran instructor Gunter Koschorrek complains be trained in our company consists of a mix [...] and naval personnel, who because of as tank infantry." (Caddick-Adams, p. 196) Manpower shortages strength. Whereas the average U.S. division has more in late 1944 is down to only 9000. The equipment is mostly obsolete or inadequate, of mostly Soviet captured guns. Even though these desperation reserves are for the moment they give Wehrmacht commanders plans for Hitler's offensive. By September 1944, Hitler is determined to his generals for the first time. He eventually decides in favour of a so-called of his Generals, who favour a more limited Hitler's plan envisions a major operation forces in western Germany and the Netherlands, Antwerp. The German planners choose the Ardennes not there, but also because the Wehrmacht has a successful breakthrough there back in 1940. Phase one of the operation is the crossing the north leading to the capture of Antwerp. It is telling that the plans for the second there are no plans whatsoever for the time Hitler hopes the offensive will break Allied peace with the British and Americans, after to the east. Most of his Generals are sceptical about the Gerd von Rundstedt writes of his doubts after should have got down on our knees and thanked Because the plan is made in a hurry, German provide a proper analysis of American forces of enemy strength. And although many of the German units only expects his armoured spearheads to cross the day. This means they absolutely must capture Allied Another important factor in the German considerations The success of the operation depends on bad using their crushing superiority in air power. Three Germans armies take part in the attack. Sepp Dietrich's 6th SS-Panzerarmee is the 500 tanks and more than 1000 guns. It is to cross the Meuse and take Antwerp. Hasso von Manteuffel commands the 5th Panzerarmee, a frontline around Brussels. Finally, Erich Brandenberger's 7th Army His army is by far the weakest of the three, Its task is to advance into Luxembourg and for the expected counterattack from Patton's The weakness of 7th Army is a flaw in the of the entire operation is vulnerable from A defeat here runs the risk of undoing all German commanders know this, but they do not risk. In total, the Wehrmacht assembles more than Panzer divisions. But even the Wehrmacht's own internal assessments readiness. Opposing the German strike force are the US and the US 3rd Army's 8th Corps under Troy Allied forces in the region are facing problems the Rur river dams by 1st Army and Patton's region, General Omar Bradley has stretched thinly. Another issue is that the troops in the Ardennes very flexible formations ideally suited to tasked with static defence or battles in forests. The US Army has not yet adequately converted advances to the more static situation that All in all, roughly 80,000 American soldiers So three German armies are ready to fall upon the weather forecast calls for bad weather, The Germans deploy their troops in great secrecy and supplies at night. There are no cooking fires or movement during German reconnaissance airplanes fly at low to check progress and detect forbidden lights, engine. Even though allied reconnaissance detects either not transmitted in time or not taken The deployment phase brings yet more problems of the materiel is unloaded too far away. The fact that Hitler and his Generals take needs leads to unnecessary supply difficulties. When the offensive begins, the Germans only even though they need 1,200 a day, so the There are also problems with a lack of motorization. battery, later recalls: "It often happened the VW Kubelwagen used by the unit commander The whole train then looked more like a circus (Caddick-Adams, p. 203) American soldiers are resting. Lieutenant-Colonel Daniel B. Strickler remembers: no aggressive fighting by either side had push to the German border in September." (Caddick-Adams, p.184) But some of the soldiers reports: "[We are] constantly being hit long, the minute it gets dark - they start - tanks moving around in position and what (Caddick-Adams, p. 184) The German attack as German units get their orders December Friedrich Schmaschke, a seventeen-year-old "The peaceful silence of the bunker was There were even comrades who broke out in some ghoulishly called our 'hangman's [...] Some of the men turned to the liquor [...] Hand grenades, Panzerfausts and extra had to lie down and rest while fully dressed. [...] We were to be awakened at 04:00 am but slept." (Caddick-Adams, p. 209) batteries begin a heavy bombardment in preparation Then the German infantry charges forward to US soldier Charlie Haug witnesses it all: hair-raising scare of our entire army career. Out of the darkness came the awfullest screaming The Germans were coming! They were screaming like a bunch of wild Indians." (Caddick-Adams, p. 311) run into problems. Despite their four Panzer divisions, they taking Elsenborn Ridge. Since the forest is extremely thick, the Germans in a traffic jam. Then they send in the reserves too early to worse. In the central sector, the Germans have more US troops are stretched out extremely thinly, almost everywhere. In the southern sector, the first day brings 7th Army's spearheads attack across the only light casualties. But due to a lack of bridging equipment and remains stuck on the eastern banks of the As the fighting on the first day finally ends, "Everywhere there is a tangle of shell-shot at close quarters: bits of broken rifles, grenades, fragments of shell, displaced sandbags, empty and shreds of uniform and equipment." (Caddick-Adams, p. 294) still thinks the attack is a limited operation. The scale becomes apparent the next day though, The first is "Operation Stosser", an junctions and bridges ahead of the main advance. But it suffers from insufficient coordination time - in the end only about 300 paratroopers They hide in the woods for three days with vain for support. The survivors then split up and sneak back The second operation, codenamed "Operation His unit filters through the frontline in by swapping street signs and cutting telephone But the Americans catch most of the teams men upon capture. German lawyers had assured Skorzeny beforehand no weapons were used. But that was in theory. In reality, shooting enemies who are wearing armies during the war. "Operation Greif" officially ends in the Skorzeny receives permission to use the rest So the Germans have launched their desperation So far the military results are mixed, and war crimes. The most infamous unit in the offensive is Its commander, Joachim Peiper, is furious result is a series of massacres. The men of Kampfgruppe Peiper shoot 19 prisoners 58 more at Ligneuville. Finally, on December 17 near Malmedy they so they don't have to escort the prisoners The civilian population also fears the return People in German-speaking eastern Belgium with Nazi-Germany in 1940. But being treated as second-class citizens, rule as the war drags on. Nevertheless, there is still some pro-German There are even reports about local Germans Not so Luxembourg. The discontent with German occupation explodes forced labour in 1942. By 1944, many Luxembourgers have joined the skills - gather information which they pass In French-speaking Belgium, the people wholeheartedly As vengeful members of the German security flee to the west. Allied commanders hold a crisis meeting on They decide to transfer American forces north under Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery's US 12th Army Group commander Omar Bradley his orders. Overall, the change allows the Allies to get more efficiently. Within a week, 250,000 American soldiers and the threatened sector. By December 23, the German advance has slowed The Wehrmacht lacks the logistics and the on lengthening supply lines. German propaganda film shows a disproportionate the Ardennes their army uses 40 times as many Things get worse for the Germans when the 23. Allied fighter-bombers immediately wreak havoc to move troops only at night and depriving As the poorly equipped German infantry suffers the tanks often have to attack towns alone Christmas eve turns out to be the high-water Although the German advance starts to grind Bulge is far from over. Back on the 20th, German troops surrounded along with roughly 15,000 US troops. American Private Joseph Syiek is caught in surrounded and the Germans began to close As the day rolled on the enemy showered us Men were going mad. There was no organisation, there was no way p.474) surprise attack, but this fails since US command immediately activates the 101st Airborne division, The orders go out on December 17th, and within US troops and supplies to Bastogne. The Germans' first probing attacks on the to split up. While two Panzer Divisions continue their Division stays behind to continue the siege. Panzer Lehr Division commander Fritz Bayerlein "It was one of the greatest mistakes that immediately captured by a concentrated attack If this had been done, it would certainly Because the Germans don't have enough artillery Germans decide to try a bluff on December They demand that the encircled US forces surrender, rejects the ultimatum with a single word: The same day that McAuliffe tells off the to move north towards besieged Bastogne. But it remains unclear when they will be able The first relief for the defenders appears planes drop more than 230 tons of supplies In the following days the Germans launch increasingly town, while Patton's relief force works Patton's army lifts the siege on the 27th, and starving 5th Fallschirmjagerdivision. The US tanks roll right through the German contact with the encircled US-paratroopers. The Wehrmacht launches counterattacks against 3rd US-Army pushes on past Bastogne and links at Houffalize on January 16, marking the end 20,000 Americans (including 4,500 from the in a battle fought for a town with a peacetime roads. But the Battle of the Bulge extends far beyond With strategic initiative back with the Allies, lost positions. And they have a lot of firepower. Artillery and fighter bombers systematically combined arms US forces clear them of any German morale starts to crumble under the Those who continue to fight are increasing prisoners to help them dig trenches or prepare On January 1, US Forces commit a war crime of Chenogne. Sergeant John Fague describes the events: up German prisoners in the fields on both They must have been 25 or 30 German boys in [...] These boys were to be machine gunned We were committing the same crimes we were [...] I turned my back on the scene and walked The same day, the Germans launch yet another this time by the Luftwaffe. All operational fighter planes on the western Allied airfields and destroy all enemy aircraft Shortly after daybreak, about 1000 German The pilots are excited by the magnitude of [...] The sky was full of machines. The civilians stood there frozen. When vwe flew over the front, the soldiers We were all flying low." (Beevor, p. 349) chief Hermann Goring issues brutal orders: attacked the enemy airfield, or whoever fails and fly another attack." (Beevor, p.349) making a second run no longer have the element Coordination with ground forces is another fire incidents. Fuel shortages made worse by long approach In total, the Germans lose more than 300 aircraft. The allies lose 260 planes, but they can replace replace theirs at all. The fighting continues in the first weeks against stubborn German resistance. The Germans finally acknowledge their defeat three Panzerdivisions out of the front line Starting on the 12th, when the Red Army launches Wehrmacht forces in the Ardennes are weakened The Germans divert all available reserves Berlin when the Soviets outrun their supply From now on, the remaining German forces in On January 28, the US army officially declares Casualty figures, result of the battle, conclusion about 8600 dead, 21,000 missing and 47,000 like frostbite and trench foot. The Germans lose about 15,500 men killed, More than 2500 Belgian and 500 Luxembourg Most are shot by pillaging German soldiers Roughly 1000 die as a consequence of Allied The towns and villages of the region are devastated, recover the bodies of the fallen soldiers, The Ardennes offensive ends in a clear German But was there ever a chance for the German The German offensive suffered from severe and unloaded too far away from the front. Most of the units involved were only told so they had no chance to conduct a proper and attacked blindly. These two factors show the German leadership's over proper preparation. Another mistake was that the best German units in the northern sector, even though that is This is in contrast to common military wisdom least resistance should be reinforced. This can allow one to expand a breakthrough of the enemy without having to expose the The reasons for this German mistake were in in the regular army after the assassination on the Waffen-SS. But the Waffen-SS suffered from a lack of so its troops were not used efficiently. But even if the Waffen-SS units had fought relied on factors that were out of German fuel depots. It remains unclear how the Germans planned depots before them, despite being far less By late 1944 the German Army was no match It was mostly of last-ditch levies, equipped It could not stand a prolonged offensive, out of resources and could not supply the its losses. One of the most decisive factors was the complete cleared, which cut German supply lines and for Allied ground troops. Given all these factors, the German offensive chance of success. The Battle of the Bulge was a total German levels. The Nazis severely underestimated both American the Wehrmacht's capabilities. The Ardennes offensive and the waste of Germany's drag on for a little longer, and quickened After the Battle of the Bulge, the western heartland of Germany in February and March, Front of WW2: The Rhineland campaign. In the battle for the Rhine a combined British the German border towards the mighty Rhine To cross this last big natural obstacle before a huge amphibious crossing with the biggest war. If you want to learn more about this often 45, our 5-part, 3.5-hour documentary series Filmed on the former battlefields, using detailed like Christoph Bergs or David Willey from Rhineland 45 is the most detailed documentary Because we show the war as it really happened, it would get immediately demonetized. Instead, Rhineland 45 is available on Nebula, other creators where we don't have to worry If you go to nebula.tv/realtimehistory and For just 3$ a month or 30$ per year you can other smart creators like Mustard or Real than on YouTube while supporting us directly. That's nebula.tv/realtimehistory We want to thank David Lang for his help with If you are watching this video on Patreon we could not produce videos like this without If you want to watch another video about a about the Battle of Iwo Jima. I am Jesse Alexander and this is a production channel that won't fall on their knees when