The Sahara is home to the world's largest For centuries this place has thrived alongside This city of a thousand minarets is the capital of 20 million people. This is Cairo, Egypt, the Megacity of the Born on the east bank of the Nile 5,000 years Egyptian pharaohs and iconic pyramids of the Much later, in 641, the Arab general Amr ibn seed from which contemporary Cairo has grown. In 970, a walled city was established to protect Over the next 400 years it would grow to become and Asia Minor. With almost half a million people, it was it to thrive culturally and intellectually. Some of the earliest institutions of higher The middle of the 14th century saw Cairo reach Soonafter, decline set in as plagues like of its population. Then, its spice trade monopoly was broken India, establishing an alternative sea route, And, while under Turkish control, Cairo was within the massive Ottoman Empire. Fast-forward to the 1830's, when the urban Influenced by the renovation of Paris, a European-style core. Cairo entered its most rapid period of expansion revolution that ended 2,000 years of imperial That's when the city began sprawling northward valuable farmland. This growth was fueled by improvements in Things like flood control allowed the riverfront to settle on the area's islands and west bank. Just like we've seen with the other cities reached a point of critical mass--where it that people began arriving faster and faster, But unfortunately for Cairo, it was unprepared to support them. Many of these newcomers had to make desperate Today, half a million people live in the City More of Cairo's poor live in a place called Here 70,000 Cairenes sort and recycle the day in the rest of the city. They actually provide a vital service and sanitation operations in the world. An urban artist named eL Seed recently undertook what he learned in a Ted talk. "The Zaraeeb community was the ideal context We need to question our level of misconception communities based on their differences...The which means 'the people of the garbage.' But ironically, the people of Manshiyat Naser They say they are the ones who produce the Even if you've got a home in Cairo, it's Developers frequently ignore, or bribe their because of the oversaturated nile river delta This had tragic consequences in 1992 when residential towers killed more than 600 people. Looking around Cairo from above also reveals by squatters who've made ramshackle homes One of the ways the government dealt with modelled after the Paris metro. It now has over 1 billion riders a year and but it brought the unintended consequence the city. In response, the Egyptian government has tried they are continually building on the outskirts But with bad transportation options to and to move to, and fall flat every time. Twenty two of these "new towns" already Designed for millions and millions of residents, It seems the excitement and connectivity of than a life lived in overpriced suburbs further But wealthy developers haven't gotten the rather than doing what's best for Cairo. And Egyptian housing minister Mostafa Madbouli He recently unveiled a $40 billion mega plan He argues the project is needed to ease congestion It attempts to follow in the footsteps of and Canberra. At 700 sq km, it will be as big as Singapore residents. The project was originally led by the Emirati disagreements forced the Egyptians to turn This ambitious, risky project has many Egyptians [Cairo resident] "What new capital are they They should pay attention to the poor and Millions of Egyptians are unemployed, and dollars on a new capital." [Cairo resident] "The new capital city is Here in Egypt, I don't know. But those in charge only start thinking after Perhaps one of the reasons President el-Sisi turmoil Cairo has just lived through. In 2011, the world was captivated by the Egyptian demanding change. First, the 29 year rule of Hosni Mubarak ended. Then, the misguided and brief presidency of the current President, el-Sisi. With a firm grip on power, it makes sense capital, safely removed from the masses in 1 in 4 Egyptians and is one of the fastest In the next 30 years, its population is on One of the factors that will bring so many While Cairo is removed from the coast, the it's already feeling the effects of rising NPR's Jane Arraf recently travelled there "Egypt is one of the countries most vulnerable Eventually entire neighborhoods could be underwater. The nile delta is crucial to Egypt. More than half of its crops are grown in that the sea. In farmland along the Nile diesel pumps spring Increasingly, seawater is creeping in." A coastline that is continually creeping inland Cairo. This will amplify the pressure Cairo's leaders But solutions exist to manage its growth, precious resources, be they water or money, In a documentary that's several decades Neamatalla, made the case that -- despite "Megacities are an opportunity, they're We have to look at megacities as a place where something to mankind. The world now is not separated by national boundaries--thank goodness. And that is very much because of megacities. Megacities are playing a very, very, very and in making sure that the very important are indeed exchanged, attended to, and acted Thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this latest video in our Megacities can discover it to. For TDC, I'm Bryce Plank.