My name is Robert Mazur. I'm back to tell the whole story of how I went undercover laundering tens of millions And this is how crime works. Money laundering enables cartels to produce the most lethal thing that they produce around the It enables them to be presidents of countries. Operation C-Chase was a to prosecute the biggest money launderers of the Medellin cartel. Most of the people I dealt with were high-level drug traffickers who had hundreds of millions of dollars. I'm doing this interview in silhouette because two agencies and an that the Medellin cartel I worked long-term undercover from 1986 to 1988, infiltrating as one of their money launderers. Went through psychological profiling, went through the undercover schools, was blessed with tremendous training from former long-term undercover agents, including a man who's now a friend of mine by the name of Joe Pistone, who in the book and the movie After getting that training, I spent a year and a half putting together what I think is one of the used in undercover. I built the persona of Robert Musella. I dressed the part, Drove a Rolls-Royce, Mercedes, Jaguar. I was embedded in real businesses. Had an air-charter service We had a jewelry chain with 30 A lot of cash goes through every single day. So if you've got those you have a very good excuse I was embedded in an investment company, a mortgage-brokerage business, and even a brokerage firm with a seat on the New And then I and my partner of the Medellin cartel and the banks that were supporting them. There are different ways of Some can be based upon actual deaths, and some can be based upon other ways. Every single undercover identity I had started with the first name Robert, because I'm just a simple-minded guy, that if you say Robert, I'm looking. I'm looking to see if you called me. So &quot;Javier&quot; would not work for me. And then the last name has to be Italian American. I take very strongly, I my family is 100% Italian on one side and 100% Polish on the other side. Actually, the way the I had been working on a prior case. I was a courier for a fake cocaine group. My job was to carry suitcases that was laundering drug money and to deal with the owner that were laundering. And they were working with a that we also infiltrated. When we took the case down, and one of the things we found was a folder with 250 false identities that had been put together. Some in earlier stages, some in later. I looked through there for one that would be close to my birth. There was Robert Musella. One of the keys to doing undercover work is to build your undercover persona to have as many traits Robert Musella was from Staten Island. I'm from Staten Island. Robert Musella was a businessman. I have a business background. I didn't fake accents, fake anything. I was always just me. The first person I met that was working within was a gentleman by the a small-time money launderer who had an import-export business, but the capacity he had to to about $50,000 a week at best. We had my partner, Emir, deal with him and simply say, &quot;Listen, my but he never wants to meet you. He wants to stay in the shadows. But if you could ever convince him to come out of the shadows, and you'd be able to launder By the end of that six months, Gonzalo Mora was banging You know, it's always I also knew these people If you're afraid of a dog, they know that. You're the first one they bite. I didn't want to get bit. So I knew that I would be working against myself and undermining my cause if I showed any fear whatsoever. The thing I had in my advantage was, like anybody involved in crime, And I told him eventually, &quot;Listen, I have to get these people to understand that they need to let me Your only responsibility If I succeed, we'll even He felt compelled to and then I started to climb up the ladder to meet bigger and bigger We fully expected to the bankers, dirty lawyers, the couriers with the beneficial owners and to be able to prosecute them for not just money laundering, A classic example of that by the name of Roberto Alcaino, a major transporter of cocaine in the United States, Spain, and Italy. He and I got along extraordinarily well. If he hadn't been a drug trafficker, we'd probably been friends. In his mind, I think we were. And not only did I wind and working with him, with respect to the but also of Fabio Ochoa's money and other people with whom he was working. He explained to me that that was producing thousands of kilograms of cocaine a month. We were able to identify a commercially packed anchovies in cans, that he'd sent from Buenos Aires to Camden, New Jersey, where it was to be trucked to put into a warehouse. Agents were able to be there when he showed up in Chelsea at the warehouse, and he got arrested. That was a seizure of and the arrest of a very who had a contract with the cartel to move thousands and I met other people like him, and we had similar success with them. Of course, Pablo Escobar was There were other individuals who were on what I would consider to the Ochoa family, Rodriguez There were other people on and he would get 5,000 kilos for US and 2,000 for Europe, and he had the responsibility of getting that there. He also had a relationship where, if they had dope in the United States, he would distribute it for them at a cost of 20% of the shipment. So let's say there was 1,000 kilos. He would get 200 of the kilos. They would get the money from the rest. 200 kilos at that time, that's going for probably $15,000 a kilo. You know, money launderers are basically operating what's called the black-money market. It's an informal banking to people who operate So, as a black-money-market operator, I have a supply of dollars. My supply comes from drug traffickers. Now I have to find people who People who want to buy dollars are oftentimes importers around the world who otherwise have to go and spend 25% of their money I could sell it to them for 10%. My traffickers, in many So the best people I could were Colombian importers. All I have to do is swap. So I had supply clients, But most often the money would controlled by the cartel in Panama, and from there, they wherever they wanted to hide it. In some instances, I Millions of dollars went that they had relationships with. Well, sometimes the money Like, there was a guy, his responsibility was and trucks and things like so he basically was the buyer So I dealt with him in order to buy the specific which were Rockwell Some money is smuggled down to Colombia, and to people in the military or prosecutors or politicians or whoever's Oftentimes, especially if a lot of the traffickers would, would be kept literally in a hole that would be dug in It's called a caleta. And my two main clients, Gerardo Moncada and Fernando Galeano, they were the two principal They ran his smuggling routes. They decided apparently to divert some of the drug profits and not pay the war tax that but he found out that there was this caleta with $22 million in it. And after that money was found, Escobar summoned them to which was his self-made jail. He had them tortured for two days, then their family members that could be found and Pablo began the internal cleansing. Those who escaped became the vigilante group that Most of the money's in 5, 10s, and 20s. That's because people using illegal drugs buy it with 5, 10s, and 20s. That gets collected by people for the cartels to do nothing They try not to have traffickers and money handlers in the same place. Too much asset to potentially be lost. So, the dollars generally would come to me in suitcases, duffle bags, boxes. New York was a key point. Get a million, $2 million per delivery. I generally had runners who You don't usually get the guy who really controls the safe on the street. The way it works is we get the information from Gonzalo Mora. So he might give us a phone number in the form of an invoice number. He might say that, you know, &quot;You need to get in touch with Guapo, and he's going to have 250 boxes.&quot; It's $250,000. They generally like to so it might be at a McDonald's. They sit down. Not much gets said. Pushes the keys across the table. &quot;It's in the trunk.&quot; Emir goes and gets the money. He's probably going to be There're going to be who are going to be making where they might be endangering Takes custody of the cash. Eventually gets it back to us after everybody's convinced meaning nobody's following them. And then the counting starts. It's usually wrapped in rubber bands in blocks of $5,000 and $10,000, dependent upon denominations. You know, a lot of times what they do if they don't want to deal they will use an army of couriers. We call them Smurfs. The little blue guys, We kind of dubbed them Smurfs because, let's say there's 10 of them. Their job every day is to go to meet with their money contact. And that guy may have and each of them gets $50,000 and a map that tells them to use cash to buy MoneyGrams, cashier's checks, money They'll buy a money order for $987.25 to try to make it look Leave the payee blank. They generally don't want So at the end of the day, was now a stack maybe 8 inches high of money orders, traveler's checks. There were times when to then take it from there and launder it. That was safety for them because we were not having direct contact with their main money people. We were just getting a FedEx box with $500,000 in money orders. You know, a lot of people You've got all these millions and it's in cash.&quot; There's unfortunately been that has fallen victim into My motivation was If I couldn't get the next and I couldn't risk more than I did to get the last piece of information, I felt as though I wasn't Yeah, I was addicted, but I Layering is a process by which usually offshore entities, are used to continue to receive what initially started off maybe The way we layered, the money would first be put in Luxembourg in the name That money was used by the in a different part of the world. So, let's say the loan was in Paris, and that was to a Gibraltar corporation. And then that Gibraltar corporation would transfer the funds to Panama, and then from there to accounts controlled by the drug traffickers. And so the purpose that is to just confuse the route in which the money is being moved. In order for anyone to you have to first pierce and bank-secrecy laws, then you have to pierce then you have to pierce and by the time you did that, everybody would be to the end And so the purpose that is to just confuse the route in which the money is being moved. I think the biggest deposit was somewhere around $2.1 million. There was a time that I met in Paris with Pablo Escobar's main lawyer, a guy by the name of Santiago Uribe, and some other people that He'd sent Uribe to assess our money-laundering processes, and at the end of that meeting, We would receive in a $100 million that they wanted to put into a nest egg in Europe So, when we get back from Europe, we started getting deliveries. A million in the morning, $2 million in the afternoon. I had told the people who that they needed to be really careful, and we needed to try to keep because they would have And one of the people who I dealt with, a person who met with Pablo &quot;Make sure your people look on the street for gringos,&quot; white guys, early 30s, in good shape, wearing jeans, pullover shirts with collars, solid color, jogging shoes, fanny packs. That's where their guns are hidden. Those are los feos, the ugly ones.&quot; That's informally what people So, I never used to want but this was getting very important, so I met with the people who were going to do the surveillance, and there was a room full pullover shirts that and they had fanny packs. And I tried to convince that everybody was looking for, but egos are such in law enforcement that sometimes people don't So, anyway, the surveillance got burned, and the next thing that Emir Abreu, received a phone And in the background of Gerardo Moncada, who was screaming that Musella, I, had to be a DEA undercover agent, because they saw all the Feds there, and all deals from here on were off. And I had to talk myself out of that. I guess the point is that there are a lot of to these undercover operations, and it's pretty easy for any that might potentially endanger When I was accused of being a DEA agent, my tact was, &quot;Listen, I but the information you because somebody has a problem. It's either on your side or I don't care that we've got another $97 million that I'm not taking another not until we figure out And I promise you, if you help me identify and it's on my side, nobody will ever know about that problem maker ever again.&quot; And I have to act like a bad guy. I can't go in there and I can't go, &quot;Well, you might be a DEA agent.&quot; You can't do that. But you Actually, one of my informants talking about when some to infiltrate and convince and he said, &quot;The guy opens the door, and he leans on the top in a form.&quot; And he goes, &quot;You know, I've been stopped by cops, and that's their pose. And I immediately stopped because I thought that he was a cop.&quot; So, yeah. And, you know, there's words that cops use all the time that you just want to not use. And they're &quot;alleged&quot; or, you know, all types if you're sitting around or in your office, you You basically have to have two brains operating at the same time. And as I'm there acting and thinking like Musella, there's a small voice in about where I need to in order to make it Beyond that, I wouldn't let my Mazur brain get involved at all, I had a home actually in Key I had a home about 25 That was wired for video, audio. I had a briefcase recorder. I had several. And one of which malfunctioned, which created quite a potential problem. I had been suspected by and to talk my way out of with one of Moncada's trusted people who I got along with well. So I'm in the room with this guy, and he says, &quot;Well, where You were supposed to bring And I said, &quot;Oh, it's in my I went and got it, brought I opened it up, the Velcro let loose, the recorder fell into the briefcase with a nest of wires, and and I'm trying to act as normal as I can as I'm reaching around and putting the Velcro And he's getting and he gets up and comes around just as I finish putting it back in. And I'm not sure what would've happened if he'd have seen the recorder. It's that old theory of a dog sensing that you're afraid. Just And I got lucky. All of the traffickers &quot;I love your money-laundering system, but the end payout is US-dollar checks from accounts that are We want you to open up Panama uses the US dollar more than it does its own currency. They know that secrecy is big in Panama by corporations, by banks. It's harder for DEA to get the information concerning the accounts, but what they told me also was, &quot;Listen, we want your accounts in Panama because we own Gen. Manuel Noriega, and he will not touch any of your accounts because you're with us.&quot; So now I have to open I happened to be driving of the Bank of Credit and the seventh-largest privately It was a big gold sign. I would've never walked in So I called. I said I wanted a meeting with someone from the that I had a need for accounts in Panama because my customers and would they be able to help me? And they said, &quot;Well, if you can give us a resume.&quot; I had a fully verifiable resume, and I had bank accounts with all of which the bank in particular wanted to see before they opened up to me and explained to me how for many people in organized crime. And I said to them, &quot;All of my clients are They operate businesses here in the States that are very sensitive, and it's my job to very to move capital across borders.&quot; So he goes, &quot;Well, that's We have plenty of customers He said, &quot;You know, yeah, There's a lot of hands in and sometimes mistakes can be made.&quot; And in fact, that's the the Bank of Credit and That got me into the inner and then I went on to meet The No. 1 person who managed my accounts, a gentleman by the name of Amjad Awan. He managed accounts for for Manuel Noriega. He helped launder Noriega's drug profits from the protection he sold And then Mr. Awan introduced within the bank, including of the bank who was stationed in Paris and ran all of the branches and during that time, we recorded all of which were used as the cornerstones of the prosecution of and money launderers, but senior officials of the Bank of Credit and I needed to coast the conversations into the areas where I was their involvement in criminality. I couldn't allow them You have to try to get a way So, one of the things that I one of the most famous in the late '80s was a guy He ran Chrysler. Everybody knew who he was. And so when I would talk to I would say, &quot;You know, if you might mistake them The big difference is they don't And that was it. That was in most meetings with the banks, and then later on, I'd be &quot;We really need to get money to Bolivia because that's where the labs are. That's where it's made.&quot; All types of things that a jury would be able to understand. There's no mistake here. They're not talking about Coca-Cola, they're talking about cocaine. I dealt with dirty bankers. I dealt with lawyers in Switzerland who formed corporations to I dealt with attorneys in Panama, people who ran that do nothing other They form tens of for people all over the world. All of these people are intermediaries who the underworld counts on. There were other people, real who were sending what they in and out of the United States, which actually was lead and that was their cover for and were not bashful about and saying, &quot;This is a But I really think that the mortgage-brokerage the brokerage firm, and was more than enough for them to be convinced that I They were following me. We knew that they had who were in the vicinity I needed to show up at I needed to show up in Miami and in New York, so. But if you have enough that's believable, it's amazing how quickly that you are who you say you are. June of 1988, I was told that it would be the first week of October that the operation would be taken down. I've got two years' worth of work to do, and I've got to get it November was a presidential election. This was perceived by some to be a necessary &quot;October surprise&quot; to show the nation that the administration was very efficiently So many times, these undercover operations result in indictments, but the bad guys, they're in countries that Colombia was one. Pakistan was another. A lot of the people were from Colombia. A lot of people were from Pakistan. The management of the bank was One of the agents said, &quot;Well, they obviously appear to like Bob.&quot; I don't think that they liked me. They saw me as an asset. I was a resource. Yeah, they liked me because I helped them to be able to carry out Not because we were golfing buddies. So someone suggested, &quot;Well, why don't we have some And one of the agents I &quot;How about a wedding?&quot; And I said, &quot;Well, I'm sure they'll show.&quot; And so we went about doing Now, how do you get everybody you know are going to be there? This got personal. In some instances, children of future defendants were part of the wedding. Wives were part of the wedding. So we put this together in Innisbrook, which is a country club, and people showed up. The night before, word was spread. We had a party at the country club, and the night before, guy who played my bodyguard, a mob guy, went around to the defendants and said, &quot;Hey, Bob doesn't know this. We're going to have a And he said, &quot;The cars will be here soon.&quot; And I left. So they got each car, and the high rise had different So each one went to a different level. That team knows that on a certain floor in the high rise. They get off. The arrest team's there. They arrest them as they Some of the reactions One of the guys who was there who I had hired to be because Roberto was in jail. When he got arrested, he thought And he was very intent on to please get the word that the only reason he wasn't there was because he'd been arrested, and he apologized, et cetera, and somebody else said some about not believing that I was an agent, and everybody was in disbelief. And the case concluded with the arrest of about 85 individuals, the collection of fines and forfeitures of about $600 million, and the seizure of about Ultimately, the bank imploded You know, it was all high fives. They wanted to go out and I wanted nothing to do I was emotionally exhausted. I went home. I don't but probably most of the day. And the longest trial lasted six months. I was on the witness stand from the middle of June every single court day for three months. I could see the hatred in their eyes, even more so in the eyes who were there. No doubt, they didn't see me as a person who was just doing their job, they saw me as a person they feel tricked them. But I never tricked anybody into doing anything Nobody in there did anything After I testified, my family We went into the mountains, got away from everybody, There was a pager number, an 800-number that they could call, the office could call and occasionally I would check, and I got word that the jury had convicted every single person of I went back to the campsite by a river and just sat there thinking about it, and it occurred to me that I had done the same things and I was getting awards, and they were about to go Bankers got, like, 12 years. That's a long time in jail for a banker. And I don't take what I did lightly. Some people think it's a sign of weakness. You know, I did drop a I kind of think that was good, because I want a I don't want people high-fiving. I first learned about about 30 days after the Someone from Customs and then I received information from DEA about a National Security Agency, NSA, farm wiretap. They wanted to have two six-agent details in my home. People with shotguns. And it's supposedly to protect me from whoever's going to and come and get me. I thought that was absurd. My family went through more and these are my coworkers. I don't really want them So in anticipation of this, I had built another identity, and it was just sitting I got the opportunity to create the new and the businesses that In 1992 to 1994, I infiltrated the Cali Same goal as C-Chase, infiltrate the intermediaries come up with methods to with the traffickers, and and seize as many, you know, I knew of the Cali They were, at the time they were allies working together. Not allies -- allies in the business, but, you know, certainly But by the time we did Operation and the Cali cartel were Gilberto Rodriguez who ran the Cali cartel, saw the opportunity of the as their opportunity to become the biggest cartel in the world. And so they were behind the scenes helping the vigilante group that was trying to have Pablo killed, the Colombia National Police, DEA. they were behind the scenes The Cali cartel was different from a money-laundering perspective. They were much more sophisticated. They exploited a trade-based that they taught me once I that involves the operation some fronts and some legal businesses, that are based in Colombia and that do business in North America. And they had methodologies and Customs officials of exporting large that never existed, therefore giving them legal of large amounts of under the guise of export sales. That was something that with probably a dozen different banks that were corruptly involved. I dealt with officers and I think that was between the two. Some of the codes are industry norm regardless of cartel. It's funny. Everybody called Miami &quot;Las Everybody called New York Everybody called LA &quot;La But those were normal. So, I had a business that financed trade, where I would forward monies on behalf of the traffickers and they would have to They would send me an invoice. The invoice number was the phone number of the person to contact So the communication The city would've been identified in the remarks section of the invoice. The amount, you'd the last three zeros off of whatever you're putting down there. So if it's 250, it's 250,000. If it's 2,000, it's 2 million. Pallets, pallets could be millions. &quot;We have a full pallet for you We want to get invoices in exchange.&quot; Invoices is a way of saying checks. But when we would meet, would come from Colombia and meet with me and I went to Columbia When money gets seized that was intended to be picked up by us and then they come to try to figure out who's responsible and I mean, everybody's so excited about trying to get this resolved that they forget about and a lot of the stuff was I remember one time, I had for the Cali cartel at my apartment. Behind me, the TV was on, no sound, and it was showing an arrest of people in the Cali cartel, and he jumped up and was and he said, &quot;That's one of our guys. That's one of our guys.&quot; So now we turn the volume on, and we're hearing, well, of the Cali cartel ... &quot; So it was pretty obvious, you know, OK, he works with the Cali cartel. Eventually during the operation, I had a corrupt DEA task-force officer feeding information to people that I was an undercover agent. A guy by the name of [redacted] was a money broker who personally worked with the head of the Cali cartel so Miguel and Gilberto. Unbeknownst to me, [redacted] was told by a DEA task-force officer who knew that I was playing that I was in fact an undercover agent. But [redacted] was being threatened by the Cali cartel because he had been held responsible for large losses of cash. So he needed to work for them for free, and he needed to make money for them. And he was so afraid that that despite the fact that he knew that I was a DEA undercover to convince me to help because he thought he knew when the operation was going to end. And I'd told him that the on a certain event that than when the real ending was going to be. So [redacted] made the calculated idea that he would come and meet He would take the risk but he couldn't really give He couldn't let the cartel know that he was coming back it wouldn't make any sense. He needed money laundered or So I met with him in Panama. He tried to act like old buddies, and he kept looking at his watch, and then he got really nervous about almost 30 minutes into the meeting that he had to go. He had to go. What I found out later was He met with three guys who were killers. They were in the car outside. Everybody in Panama at So they were told that if he wasn't out of the building 30 minutes after the meeting started, that they were to go to this room, kill everybody in the room other than him, and get out of Dodge, because if he didn't get out by then, his mind, he would've been arrested and he was being held in And I found out from the witness that they were getting ready to go in, and that I was two minutes away from that hit squad coming in before they were stopped and turned around and went back out. So, and, you know, there in that room with me, and there were informants in Colombia that were working with me. All of whose lives were at risk It's unfortunate, but the and the private sector responsible for trying to have been highly unsuccessful. The United Nations [Office] that roughly $400 billion from the sale of illegal drugs. If you look at the statistics from the Department of Justice you'll see that not more than a billion of actual drug proceeds That's one-fourth of 1%. The cartels' coffers grow exponentially year after year, and their ability to corrupt which is why so many and the rule of law. What I really do believe you have to understand there are two different sides of banking. There's the sales side Sales side brings in the accounts, compliance in an unhealthy to make sure they're not That needs to be brought together. I'm suggesting it only on accounts that have $5 million or more that have been received in a year. I think that the that brought the account in should have to file with affirming that they've questions that if you ask them would expose whether that's being run by front people and whether or not there's Those questions don't get asked, and they don't get asked now because the sales side always &quot;If I ask those questions, because they don't want to You know, we have a joint run by the FBI, but it's by I don't know how many 100 agencies, federal, state, and city. There should be a joint that does the exact same thing. A lot of the things are done the same. Some people find that hard There has been an evolution Cryptocurrency I think has its place in certain parts of criminality, but mostly for those for those who are involved in the dark net and who transact criminal Like, Silk Road was once an entity that sold illegal drugs There are people who've been who have used cryptocurrency. Unlike cash, you can follow crypto. The other problem you have with crypto is you only need to look at bitcoin and see that unlike the US It goes way up and way down, and if I'm a money launderer and you gave me a million dollars and I happen to have bad timing and I get it done and and it's now worth half a million dollars, that's probably my last transaction. I don't think it's really in the drug world. What is big: gold refining That's big. I retired from undercover &quot;The Infiltrator&quot; became a and the basis for a film by the same name starring Bryan Cranston, and then subsequently called &quot;The Betrayal,&quot; about the second undercover I feel very happy that I now have the in the training of young officers who have an interest It's a different world now, and there are certain because of the advancement of technology. And as we go into this AI craziness, I don't know what's going to happen. It's going to be really, really difficult. But I try to help them to But as long as I've got that platform, I'm going to do everything I that can in some way try to with this massive illegal-drug problem in our country and around the world.