-My name's Anthony Padilla. Today, I'll be spending a day to learn the truth about closed off from the rest of society like most electricity, running water, By the end of this video, we'll find out was adjusting as they discovered technology than they could have ever dreamed of? Or has leaving their friends in favor of the loud proven far too anxiety-inducing to ever find a moment of peace at all? [music] -Hello, CJ. -Hi, how's it going? [music] -Emma. -Hi. [music] -Kate. -Hi, Anthony. How are you? [music] -Do you know how many generations your family has been part of -Our family goes back to the 1600s. -Before the US was even a thing? -Yes. -Forever? -Forever. [laughs] -There's not a lot of information -There's not an internet database -No, there's not. [laughs] [music] -Which community were you a part of -I grew up in Eastern Pennsylvania and I was part of Old Order Amish Church, To me, it was a super normal life. It was just the way I grew up. -The Northern Indiana Amish Community, We still didn't have cars. We didn't have electricity. Fortunately, I was able Half of the school was Amish -You were exposed to who had new beliefs that went outside -Yes. -I was a part of the Swartzentruber group. Daily life consisted of Somebody has to milk the cows. Then I started helping My family did basket weaving. Taking care of my little siblings. I have 13 siblings. -So small family? -Small. [laughter] -Were there any strict rules that -All the women, same type of dress, I wasn't supposed to wear and I wanted to wear red -just because I wasn't allowed to wear red. that you weren't allowed to wear? -You weren't really supposed to wear You were supposed to wear colors a cool blue or a cool gray. You weren't allowed to wear white or red. -If we went over to non-Amish we'd watch some TV and stuff like that. -You're very much exposed to but it was just shunned -Yes. -We couldn't show any hair. We always had to have always had to have something on our head that didn't show any hair in the front The dresses had to be down to the ankle, Every two weeks, we had church. We were forbidden from smiling or laughing We had to just sit there -Were you told anything Like were you told that if you left something would happen? -Everything was bad; I had seen computers. We would go to Walmart to do shopping. -You were exposed to They have huge TV sections and computers. -You walk like this, just peek. -Really? You felt it was bad or going to even look at this technology? -Of course, if I was by myself then we might look but we would never touch it. We'd always just feel guilty like, &quot;No, this is not -Did you feel a temptation to understand what these computers -Yes. It was tempting. -We were always taught that that if we leave or don't become Amish then we will probably go to hell. -Were you taught that hell was where you would just experience torture? -We were taught that hell is just a fire that just burns and burns [crosstalk]. -Seven times hotter than a campfire -Yes, and that your body never dies. It's just burning in that fire forever. -Did you buy into that? Did you believe that you would feel that constant torture? -Yes, I did. [music] -Were there any dating rituals that existed in your community? -A group of guys get together They bring that guy upstairs which would have been my room It's usually Saturday night. -Are you expecting someone? -No. -You weren't expecting anyone yet some nominated guy is coming up -Usually, by 11:00 or 12:00. They leave him outside. The group that brings him, and ask if I would have a date with him. Even if I say no, They just harass me until I say yes. -Okay, so you have no choice. -Then they leave him there -What would typically happen? -Back then, I was super shy. I hardly would talk, -[laughs] Okay. You're there in the bed there's a guy standing there -No, he'll get into bed too. He leaves his clothes on. He takes off his shoes. -Okay, so he's polite. -Yes. Then every 15 minutes or 30 minutes, I need out.&quot; -I was terrified. -I'd be terrified too. Can you explain what a rumspringa is? -Rumspringa, you go out with your friends and you tend to get things that but you still hide them. One Saturday night, you might go and you might pick up a radio but you still hide the radio and your parents would still burn the radio -Really? Wow. Did you ever do that? Were you buying radios and hiding them? -Of course, yes. -It's just a part of Amish life -We tried sneaking in some radios but my dad found them. They got smashed. -Was it nerve-wracking having that radio -We were always on edge. Is he going to find it or not? Usually, he didn't let us know We just went out to where we hid it -Usually as in, there were many times -Yes. -You're not allowed to have white shoes. I would go out which my mother threw into the mud -What? That is a crime. -A lot of kids, they start drinking -Can I tell you what my very ignorant -I would love to hear it. -I thought that Amish kids weren't told and had no idea Then at the age of 16, they were told, &quot;Guess what? There's an outside world If you want to go experience it, you can make the decision join the church and be Amish forever, or you're going to leave forever -You're not encouraged to go out You're actually encouraged You're encouraged to go to church. You're encouraged to -I thought that parents were encouraging and experience what life was like, assuming that the kids that they would say, &quot;Take me back.&quot; Then it would just be like -they're back forever. -Please, I can't deal with this beautiful show It's just too interesting. -I can't deal with the infinite It's too much. What was your education system like? -Education stops at 9th grade. As soon as you're 15, For somebody like me, and I wanted to continue going to school. It was always my dream to go to college, -You really wanted higher education? -Absolutely. I wanted to continue going to school. I loved going to school -Are there any things that -I had always been told that After I left, I realized it's not flat. -[laughs] How was that, realizing -It definitely piqued my interest because Missouri or Ohio -Were you taught about American history? Did you know who George Washington was? -No. [laughter] -Were there any things that -No. -No? -There's nothing to look forward to. I didn't have friends. I knew girls my age. They all seem so perfect. I had issues. I wanted to know everything about I was just miserable. Sometimes, I was very hard on myself thinking that I have to Like I have to stay Amish. There's no other way. -You felt like there was more -I was depressed and I didn't know it because Amish don't talk about From a very young age, -You were more muted, so you couldn't express happiness and you also couldn't express -Right. Everything was just stuffed inside me. -What were your biggest struggles -I was a very independent person, but I was very frustrated about I didn't feel like there was in the way that I dressed -When did you decide that you just -Probably at the age of 17, 18, I started just having that strong desire -I was 18. I went out and bought a car. My dad was like, I said, &quot;Yes.&quot; He said, &quot;Well, either you get rid of the car expecting that I would get rid of the car. -Right. -I was like, &quot;If it's that important to you then I've gone,&quot; -I was 15 years old when I had Those few years there, look for opportunities where I could learn to kind of prepare myself. It was very nerve-wracking and then thinking about but ultimately, I could learn how not to -What was your process like for leaving? -I put everything in my car I was driving down to Florida. I just remember being on, The possibilities were endless. The road in front of me was open. I just realized how much potential I had. I'll never forget it. It was awesome. -It was a dark time in my life. Drove out the driveway. It was brutally hard. Doubting like, &quot;Is this the right thing? What's going to happen?&quot; You're walking away from everybody, It was a struggle. -It was January 10th, 2006. I remember waking up. The day before, I had no idea that I'd wake up the next morning -Oh, so you didn't even have it -My mom said that she and my dad I thought, &quot;Okay, they're leaving. They're going to be gone all day. I could get away somehow.&quot; I was hiding a little track phone. -Oh, you had a phone on you. -I had a phone on me. I just haven't used it yet because -You hadn't even tested it. Did you know how to use a phone? -No, I didn't know how to use a phone. -You just had the phone. You're like, &quot;I have to figure this out.&quot; -I figured it out that was given to me by an outsider. -Were they known for breaking Amish out? -No. I was hiding that phone number, I called that number and a lady answered. Then she said, &quot;Yes, I've been -I've been expecting you -I asked her, She said yes and she picked me up. She was like, I just kept saying yes. It turns out she had left -Did you have any game plan? Did you know where you were going, -I had $50 in my pocket. I thought that would get me a long way. [laughter] -How long did it take you -Months, maybe a year. -You thought that you had You could just go out on the road -I thought I could find a job immediately where I can afford a house Boy, was I ever wrong. [laughter] -What was the reality? -The reality was -What was the most pleasant surprise -Just being away from the community itself There's no eyes on me. I could finally be me without being judged. -Not having anybody telling me that It took me a while to realize Be able to wear whatever I want, jeans, a t-shirt, or a dress, In Amish, we didn't have options. I like options. -Did you have any embarrassing moments -[laughs] Any? [laughter] -Let's say countless. From email etiquette even social settings. I have a very hard time knowing or when I should be There is a social scene but it's like people that know each other and have known each other -Right. -Figuring out how to eat properly The Amish eat with spoons instead of forks. -No fork in the Amish community -There's forks, but they don't use them -What are they for? -I don't know. [laughter] -It was all spoons for you. You go to a restaurant. Are you trying to use your spoon -Yes, and then people would tell me, I was confused. Why would I use a fork to eat? -Are you concerned at all about knowing that someone from your community -I have been sharing my experiences I'm not too concerned. I know where they're coming from. I'm going to get the truth out there. -If there's any of those people is there anything you want to say to them? -Yes, get out. -[laughs] -The Amish religion is a cult. Leave. Life is much better outside of it. -No regrets on your end? -No. -Before we continue learning about -That first time, I hated it. -Scary? -I definitely thought like an alien flying through the earth. -I'd like to thank our sponsor, BetterHelp, I've talked before about how therapy but therapy can be customized and can be really useful in providing feelings of anxiety, or depression, or whatever else you might need. BetterHelp has been continuing and screens all therapists to ensure and are certified, and licensed, and provides customized online therapy and even live chat sessions You don't have to see anyone on camera if that's not something that Therapy can be expensive and the price of finding a therapist can start to get overwhelming which is why BetterHelp offers a more where you can start communicating in less than 48 hours. Thanks again to BetterHelp for and listeners 10% off their first month That's betterH-E-L-P.com/padilla. Now, back to the world of formerly Amish. [music] -What's your favorite technology now? -Definitely my iPhone. -The phone. -The iPhone. [laughter] -You're addicted to it in the same way You'll look down and realize that -Yes. The time goes really fast [music] -I will list out a piece of tech and I'd like to know what Air travel? -That first time, I hated it. -Scary? -I've definitely thought like an alien flying through the earth. -[laughs] You're just sitting in a chair, -That was scary. To think that I was above the clouds. -You're getting a first-person view of -Yes, but it also made me throw up. -[laughs] Microwaves. -The first time I used one, I loved it. I also learned not to put anything metal -[laughs] You had to learn the hard way? -[laughs] Watching a movie. -It took me a while to get used to. I don't remember what the name of -What did you watch, Air Bud? -Yes. I was like, &quot;Is this real? Where are these dogs?&quot; -[laughs] &quot;Is this real?&quot; -I hated it. -Have you experienced virtual reality? -No, and I don't want to. -[laughs] There's a limit for -That's it. Things coming at me. I'm like, &quot;That's as far -[laughs] Do you think modern conveniences I actually read a comment &quot;When you've never listened to the radio, your mother singing as she washes the dishes When you've never watched TV, your little sister's puppet show holds Do you feel like that's true? -Yes, I would say We just missed out when we have our noses -Yes, we're almost never allowed to -Exactly. -Ines is a cupcake asks what your most that you think kids today considering modern technology? -Hanging out in the fields, and just not worrying about anything. -Not having that obsession if you're going to be accepted because you're not popular enough online -I didn't have a television growing up. I didn't have a phone. I didn't have that distraction. My childhood was very carefree. -Did &quot;Weird&quot; Al get anything right -Yes, the whole song is right. -[laughs] Not one falsity in there? -I have watched that video over and over -[laughs] It's actually funny -It's funny. Some of it is right. -All right, you got five seconds or to promote anything you want Go. -Check out &quot;the amish potato&quot; on YouTube -Find me on Instagram @katestoltz -Runaway Amish Girl. You can find it on Amazon. Find me on Instagram @runawayamishgirl. -Subscribe to Anthony Padilla -And more, but probably not. After spending a day with formerly Amish, I've come to understand just how much to leave the only world in order to live a life that feels to your own sense of self. [music] -I didn't know what a tortilla was -That sounds about right. I've experienced that as well. -You're not Padilla? [laughter] -Did you think my last name was Padilla? I would not be surprised. -A lot of people do that. -The two Ls. You learned with tor-- It's pronounced like a Y.&quot;