this blue guy is an A.I (Artificial Intelligence) not very smart yet but he's able to learn whenever he falls he gets punished and when he makes progress, he's rewarded god this is so boring forget what you've just seen let's take this A.I (Artificial Intelligence) have fun oh no the princess has been kidnapped we need to save her who are you? I'm Bobby, an artificial intelligence I came here to save the princess great! please turn this stressful music off, sorry do you like this one better? no. in fact, I hate it ... is this an ai or an annoying teenager? what did you say? nothing, nothing.. what about this one? not too bad now remove these black bars, you're overdramatizing happy now? kind of ? I want a hat are you serious? yes hurry up, the princess needs you! ok, let's do this what... are you doing? I'm an A.I (Artificial Intelligence), remember? I need to learn how to move first well, shit. are you kidding me? I'd like to see you do it, big mouth I'm the narrator not the hero give me 1 hour to train 1 HOUR???? it took you 1 year to barely stand on your ... fine I'll be back in an hour narrator NARRATOR?????? huh? sorry.. what? I'm back sit back, relax and watch this what... are you doing? nothing I did it! I'll be honest, I'm impressed! Hmm.... I think I got it I have to reach the next checkpoint to save that's right you're getting smarter maybe I jumped to conclusions too fast damn that one is tricky I need to train again???? do you think I'm freaking spiderman or what? ... fine, fine. go train... so close! EZ well done! you're getting closer to the princess pff, is that all you have for me? don't be too confident, friendly advice yeah, yeah, do you think a few blocks will you've been warned I bet I can finish it in less than 6 attempts watch me I have to admit, your progress so far is impressive thanks pack it up princess, I'll be there soon poor Boddy, if only he knew what's next... see narrator? only 3 attempts! I told you, I'm way too good for this Bobby... I have bad news for you what? stop talking to me, you're wasting my time Bobby... excuse me? may I ask a question? sure WHAT THE F#@K IS THAT????? this guard is an A.I (Artificial Intelligence) it's already well trained it will not let you go through you have to beat it hmm... dude, that hurts what the heck, this guy never misses you have to outsmart him I'm sorry buy this is impossible no it's not yes it is no it's not yes it is no it's not yes it is .. ok here's a hint when he shoots, stop moving so you can dodge english, my dear A.I (Artificial Intelligence) do you speak it? I said dodge, not run straight like an idiot I speak english I think I got it what's the next challenge? end world hunger with $3? come on, it's not that hard you're doing good already lol come on, not again I hate you so much yo narrator ? I found how to beat this clown are you sure? there's a flaw in the way he shoots A.I (Artificial Intelligence) my ass you're not ready for this I was indeed not ready for this this was the warmup help how is that fair? this is the last event everything you did was a training for this you only have 5 attempts if you fail... this princess will die you already used 1 attempt are you serious? I didn't know!! because you rush it!! what a scam 3 left... this guy is not an A.I (Artificial Intelligence), he has super powers and shit outsmart him like you did with the previous he's freezing my ass I can't do shit 2 left.. god dammit he's ruthless jesus this is your last chance.. you know what narrator? I will either win or lose with pride piece of shit which button? left I told you left not right!!!! I didn't learn how to tell the difference THEN WHY DIDN'T YOU ASK ME???!!! I had 50% change to be right ... oh no you activated the mechanism the cage is heading down to the lava I got this ... I hope this is not acceptable sorry we meet again ready to get you ass kicked a second time? hurry up! YOLO I'm so proud of you you shall now live happily ever after with I'm an A.I (Artificial Intelligence) not some kind of braindead rosy romantic I only did it for the challenge plus she's not my style Thanks for watching this Artificial Intelligence training. With the rise of ChatGPT and GPT-4 by OpenAI we got inspired. We used deep reinforcement learning with unity and ml-agents to make the AI learn. We hope Elon Musk likes it! :P