Transcriber: Queenie Lee So today, I'm going to talk in virtually every facet of our lives. But I want to begin by telling a story Dr. Fabrizio Benedetti and his colleagues studied a group of patients What you should know is that it's a very invasive procedure. Patients are put under anesthesia into the muscles of the sides and the back in order to gain access Now, about an hour the pain starts to set in. Fortunately, patients are given a powerful painkiller. This is routine treatment but Dr. Benedetti and his colleagues half of the patients by a doctor at their bedside; the other half was given but it was administered into their IV You would think that both would experience the same relief, but this was not the case. The group that received reported significant reductions The other group - the group who received but wasn't aware of it - they didn't seem So Dr. Benedetti and his colleagues They used the same procedure to test the effectiveness treatments for anxiety, treatments for Parkinson's disease, What they found When the patients and expected to receive the benefit, the treatment was highly effective. But when they weren't, that same drug, that same pill, and in some cases So I read about these studies when I was a student and at the time, I was heavily immersed And the more I read, the more I started thinking So what is the placebo effect really? Well, most people as just some magical response but that's not what the placebo effect is. The placebo effect or the sugar pill, or the fake procedure. What the placebo effect really is, is a powerful, robust of the ability of our mindsets - in this case, the expectation to heal, to recruit healing properties in the body. So what is a mindset? A mindset is quite literally it's a lens or a frame of mind we simplify the infinite number at any given moment. Now, the ability to simplify is a natural part of being human. But what I want to suggest to you today is that these mindsets and instead, they play a dramatic role in determining our health So while I was at Harvard, I had the opportunity to work She is a professor of psychology and when she heard that I was also She said, &quot;You know, (Laughter) Now, I was kind of offended I had been spending up to four hours a day But she did get me thinking about mindsets and how they might matter Was I getting fitter and stronger because of the time and the energy Or was I getting fitter and stronger What about the other extreme? What if people were getting but weren't aware of it, would they not receive the same benefit? We decided to test this, and to test this we found a really a group of 84 hotel housekeepers working in seven These women They're using a variety of muscles, and they're burning just doing their job. But what's interesting is that these women don't seem We asked them; we said, And two-thirds said &quot;No.&quot; (Laughter) So we said, &quot;Okay. Well, how much exercise you get?&quot; And a third of them said, So we wondered what would happen So we took these women, We measured them on a variety of things, including their weight, their satisfaction with their job. And then we took half of them and we gave them We gave them this poster and we said, &quot;Your work is good exercise. It satisfies the Surgeon which are quite simply of moderate physical activity. You should expect 15 minutes. We came back four weeks later Not surprisingly, the groups that didn't receive but those that did looked different. They dropped weight, they had a significant reduction they dropped body fat, and they were reported (Laughter) So what does this tell us? To me, it was fascinating that just as a result the whole game changed, producing a cascade of effects Presumably without even changing behavior. Now some of you might be thinking, &quot;How do you know they didn't because that must have been We know they didn't work any more, and the room attendants that they didn't join But of course, we can't know for sure if they weren't putting into making their beds. So this question really plagued me. Is there a direct, immediate connection So to test this, I worked with my colleagues at Yale, Kelly Brownell, Will Corbin and we did so by making So we made this big batch of milkshakes, and then we invited people and in exchange Sounds great, right? The less appealing aspect of the agreement was that while they we had them hooked up to an IV so we could get their blood samples. We are out to measure ghrelin. Ghrelin is a peptide secreted in the gut, the medical experts So when we haven't eaten in a while, our ghrelin levels start to rise, signaling to the brain, and slowing our metabolism, Now say we go out, we find and we devour a milkshake, our ghrelin levels drop, &quot;Time to stop eating,&quot; so we can burn the food So the participants came in, and then we gave them This is zero percent fat, this is guilt free satisfaction. So they drank their shake, and in response but only very slightly, signaling to the brain but not a whole lot. So a week later, we hooked them up to an IV again, (Laughter) 620 calories, 30 grams of fat, now this, this is decadence you deserve. (Laughter) And in response to this shake, but this time about three times more Now, this would make good sense who understands to the amounts of calories consumed. But there was a catch: in this study, even though the participants thought and the indulgent shake, in reality, we gave them So what does this tell us? Just as in the case produced more or less of an effect and just as in the case produced more or less of a benefit here again our mindsets proved to matter. In this case suggesting it might not be or the precise makeup of fats, what we expect, what we think that determines our body's response. So in light of this, it behooves us to consider our own lives: what are our mindsets? And how might we begin to have them be more beneficial? So take the stress, for example. What's your mindset about stress? If you're like most people, you have the mindset Now, this is not surprising there's warnings, labels about the negative effects of stress. But the truth of stress and in fact, there's a robust showing that stress enhancing effects on our health, Now I'm not here to try to persuade you but rather to point is like most things in life, and that is, it is uncertain. And therefore to raise the question: do our mindsets about stress So to test this question, I worked with Shawn Achor and we worked This was after 2008 financial collapse, and we decided - they were stressed, they had just heard was going to be laid off, and they were overworked. We decided to see And we did so by having them So I'm going to show them but half of the participants half saw the one on the right. (Video starts) [&quot;Stress is debilitating&quot;] (Video ends) So you get the point, yes? So here we are ... in the dark. (Laughter) So here we are - they're watching facts, all true, but oriented What we found was interesting: those who watched before the bell rang, over the course of the next few weeks fewer backaches, And they also reported a higher level So at this point four studies that demonstrate in exercise, in diet, and in stress. There are many other tackling this phenomenon as we speak. Carol Dweck's research demonstrates us that if we can shift our mindset as something that's fixed to something that's changeable over time, it can dramatically alter our academic Yale epidemiologist that if we can change from viewing aging as an inevitable to a process of gaining wisdom, not only shapes the course but even extends longevity. Ted Kaptchuk and his group for placebo studies understanding and ethically utilize the placebo effect So though the context is different, Our mindsets matter. Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying or that there are no benefits of exercise, and that what we eat But the psychological of anything in our lives can and is influenced by our mindset. So is the power of mindset limitless? Probably not, but what I hope I've done for you today is inspire you to reconsider Because the true task ahead is to begin reclaiming to acknowledge the power of mindset and know that just like this, (Snaps her fingers) in just the blink of an eye, we can change the game quite simply by changing our mindset. Thank you. (Applause)