[Music] Hello, my name is Jessica. Welcome to my channel VOYAGE 2 GO and welcome to the Moroccan city of Marrakesh. In this video I take you on a motorcycle trip through western Morocco. I start in lively Marrakech and then continue to picturesque Essaouira. From Essaouira with its charming old town and impressive fortress walls, I drive south through the desert and to the surfer's paradise of Imsouane on the Atlantic. We continue to the surroundings of sun-drenched Agadir. From there I take a detour to the beautiful Paradise Valley and then explore the beach of Legzira in southern Morocco and then end the first part of my tour and this video with a sea view in Mirleft. In the next video I drive from there inland and over the legendary mountains of the Anti-Atlas to hand over the motorcycle - one of the most important points on a motorcycle tour like this. You have to look closely at where any scratches were before because you just don't want to have any trouble later. If I throw the thing down myself, then I'll know what's going on. But I want to be careful beforehand to make sure I don't take over anything where someone has made a mistake before. For this tour I chose a Yamaha Tenere T7 as my companion. With its robust and lightweight design, it offers perfect control on uneven desert slopes and winding mountain roads. The powerful 689 cc engine provides enough pulling power for long distances while the chassis easily absorbs shocks and obstacles. For me it will be the first time on a Tenere. This T7 is the one I'll be spending the next 10 days with, but it doesn't look like I'm going to enjoy it. My passengers also ensure that I am always in a good mood. Some I already know from other tours, some are new. We don't get to see much of Marrakech today because right after setting off from the headquarters we soon leave the city and head out into the country. The surrounding area between Marrakesh and Essaouira initially appears wide and barren, characterized by endless dry plains and scattered olive groves. The roads stretch through a sand-colored landscape broken up by flat hills and isolated villages. Argan trees appear every now and then and here and there you can see goats grazing in the branches. So here is the place or one of the places where the goats sit in the trees. These are argan trees, from which the oil is made and one of the tourist attractions that has emerged here, and which of course has now been somewhat artificially reworked, is that the goats here may have originally voluntarily gone into the trees, but as you can now see here There was also a lot of help from the shepherds and goatherds, some of whom were then even mounted on pedestals. The goats don't seem to care. I just had one in my arms and she didn't complain much about it. It is a quiet, almost meditative setting that is perfect for relaxing while gliding along on a motorcycle. Yes, Mazagan. We are halfway between Marrakech and Essaouira on the Atlantic coast. You can see the desert and the Atlas Mountains begin here. The temperatures are actually still moderate, but I don't want to stand around in the sun for too long. After about an hour and a half of driving, we make our first pit stop, have a drink, go to the toilet and then it's not quite that far until we arrive at our destination for the day in Essaouira. Essaouira, 190 km from Marrakech to the west. That went pretty quickly now. We are having lunch here after having breakfast in Marrakesh. So it wasn't a long route, but of course some of us had to get familiar with our motorcycles first. We've already had two falls. Considering it's the first day, that's still quite a lot. We arrived in Essaouira in time so that after lunch we still had time to freshen up at the accommodation and explore the city. Essaouira, the pearl of Morocco's Atlantic coast, is not only a picturesque place full of history and culture, but also a paradise for motorcyclists. The well-developed roads lead through breathtaking landscapes. From the rugged windswept coasts to the rolling hills inland. Here travelers encounter authentic Morocco, far away from the hustle and bustle of the big cities and can enjoy the mild coastal climate, which remains pleasant even in summer. Essaouira, formerly known as Mogador, has a long history as an important trading and port town. As early as the 18th century, the city was an important gateway for trade between Africa and Europe. Today Essaouira is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and is known for its charming, well-preserved medina with whitewashed houses and blue shutters. This historical backdrop gives the city a special atmosphere that often magically captivates visitors. A key part of this appeal is the traditional Gnawa music, which is vibrant and omnipresent in Essaouira. Gnawa music is deeply rooted in the country's culture and combines African and Arabic influences to create a hypnotic sound. Their melodies, played with drums, castanets and the deep guembri bass lute, create an almost trance-like atmosphere and have a spiritual meaning that goes far beyond the music. An ideal place to relax and prepare for the next leg of the journey. The annual Gnawa Festival, which makes Essaouira the meeting point for musicians and music lovers from all over the world, is a very special experience and makes the streets of the city pulsate. I just heard that we're only driving about 150 km today. Of course that's not that much. Today we start in Essaouira and then drive south along the coastal road to a small town that is also known as a surfer's paradise. We've been waiting for almost three quarters of an hour for the last two who were traveling on a motorcycle and now we know why. Because they slipped in the curve and slid into the rocks. The driver has a bit of an arm injury, the passenger doesn't and I would say the motorcycle is a bit of an injury. In any case, the manifold is dented, a turn signal is off and of course the crash bars are somewhat scratched. That could be worse, you could just fly off the cliff somewhere. Luckily it didn't happen and she's now driving on in the support vehicle while everyone recovers from the shock. But the motorcycle still works and he has now completed a practice session. It is not safe to move quickly on a motorcycle on the winding mountain roads with oncoming traffic , but fortunately Moroccan drivers often behave in a very friendly manner. The sea arrived again in the surfer town of Imsouane on the Atlantic Ocean. It went over a ridge and we were actually half in a kind of dust cloud and half in the haze from the Atlantic Ocean on the other side. You definitely see a lot of surfer boys here and the infrastructure seems to be there too. The one motorcyclist who was riding on the back of the accident motorcycle is now riding in the support vehicle and the driver has a bandage around his arm and is bleeding a little despite his protective jacket. That means they are pretty well carved into the stones. But it continues. He always falls a long way behind. You can understand that this situation has earned him a lot of respect. This surfer's nest was nice but not for us. It's much cooler up here. We are back on the ridge, but of course you can see the Atlantic behind me. Here it goes quite steeply down a cliff and you can see the moisture from the sea rising here and then mixing with the desert behind me and dissolving. If you continue swimming here, you're actually almost in America. But not to me. We are now going to Agadir. We spent the night here by the sea a little north of Agadir. It's great to see when the desert meets the sea. The temperatures are kind to us. Unfortunately, our two wounded men are so injured that they can no longer and do not want to continue the tour. Of course you have to understand this. We actually planned a rest day today but There shouldn't really be a real rest day for something like this. That's why we're now driving up on our motorbikes about 40 km to Paradise Valley and then of course I'll take you there with me. [Music] Located just an hour northeast of Agadir, Paradise Valley is a hidden natural paradise in the heart of the High Atlas Mountains. The Canyons in Paradise Valley are a stunning natural wonder, offering deep gorges with sheer reddish-brown rock walls formed by erosion over thousands of years. A crystal-clear river winds its way between the canyons, forming natural pools in some places where the water shimmers turquoise blue. Now we are in a beautiful place. We are now driving into this so-called Paradise Valley, roughly at the level of Agadir, heading east into the mountains. There are actually beautiful pools of water in this wadi, but since it has basically not rained all year, they have dried up except for a few puddles . You can sit down here and dip your feet in the water. I'm just not sure if you should do that. These canyons are not only a paradise for hikers and climbers, but also a fascinating destination for motorcyclists who want to explore the narrow roads and paths along the rock faces. Riding a motorcycle through Paradise Valley is a real adventure. The winding roads that wind through the breathtaking landscape offer pure driving fun and spectacular views of the rugged cliffs and green oases. Here we go again. We go on the motorcycles. The mood wasn't quite so good this morning. Our two injured people have to leave us for Marrakech. We're now driving on towards Agadir, first filling up and then we'll move on. &quot;Alright, take care.&quot; - &quot;All the best to you. Good luck and quick recovery.&quot; &quot;Drive carefully.&quot; - &quot;I will. I will.&quot; This tour through Morocco was all about going on this adventure together. In the last few days we have done everything we can to stay together as a team and support each other. But now two of us are missing after their fall and that depresses us. But of course we have to move on. It's our last day on the coast and we want to really enjoy the sea again. For this we travel far to the south of Morocco. On the way to Legzira beach by motorbike, we were lucky enough to drive a really long stretch right along the sea. The coastal road provides a view of the open blue and we can feel the fresh sea breeze before we even arrive. There's even more action on the beach. Here you can ride a quad bike right along the water and explore the kilometers of sandy areas. Legzira beach is also a real insider tip among surfers and paragliders, as the waves and strong coastal winds provide optimal conditions for both sports. Even though one of the large rock arches collapsed in 2016, Legzira remains a magical place with fascinating landscapes. The red sand, the rocks and the wide sea offer an atmosphere that invites you to stop and pause. But we can't pause for long because we still have to reach our accommodation for tonight. The route takes us again along the coastal road, which is now partially covered in a thick mixture of sea mist and desert dust and from which a herd of camels suddenly emerges again. Today we are spending the night in a small hotel that stands on high cliffs above the sea near the coastal town of Mirleft on the edge of the continent of Africa and has the beautiful name &quot;A Tea at the End of the World.&quot; Yes, as you can see, the day has changed significantly improved. First of all, the weather has become nicer. Secondly, the mood has improved and thirdly, the view has become much better. After driving in the clouds or sea mist all day today, it is suddenly beautiful. But that's how it should be. Because that's how this part of my Morocco trip ends in this little hotel at the end of the world. But of course my journey continues and in the next part we drive inland, to ancient caravan cities, up into the mountains of the Anti-Atlas and over the legendary Tizi n'Test Pass. I hope you enjoyed this video, if so, please subscribe to mine Channel. This way you will find out immediately when my next travel video is published. I hope you'll join us again then. Until then - ciao ciao!