NARRATOR: It's like a horror a phantom beast that kills except today, in one African Brady Barr is in Uganda to help and rescue a village For him, it's a supreme But can he also save an animal to survive? For years, a killer has preyed Uganda...silently it instant...strikes. There's a furious struggle...a It's a nightmare scene repeated situation that brings croc of Namoni...to help Brady Barr: These people water-washing clothes, fishing, down to the lake, you could be NARRATOR: A slaughter News stories account yet in the local villages family members...friends... hiding in the lake. Brady Barr: The capture of these lives-human lives. NARRATOR: In Namoni, Brady Peter Ogwang, a ranger with Brady Barr: This They have a problem with killing locals. Peter: Namoni village is one of problem crocodiles or man-eater Over 20 people have been killed. And most of them are fishermen. Some are of them are women going Brady Barr: Children, Peter: Yes. Brady Barr: This is so these people's lives the water. NARRATOR: Which puts them at While the situation is critical, capture a man-eater. For that, they leave Namoni and Park on the Nile River It's a wildlife preserve that's And it's where, six years ago, in capturing crocodiles. Brady Barr: Come in and get it. NARRATOR: At the time, Peter was for Uganda's problem Brady Barr: Pull 'im out, pull NARRATOR: But he needed Brady Barr: Okay...pull! Jump on its neck, It can't get you. One, two, three. Good job! NARRATOR: Since then, Peter's over 20 crocs. Today, a new group of to meet Brady. Peter: We have here, Richard. Peter: John Fisher. NARRATOR: Each has volunteered mission at Lake Victoria-despite experience. Brady Barr: Let's get in NARRATOR: They know about the want to help. Brady and Peter will train them it's been captured. But first, Brady will need practice on-and do it On the way up river, the Brady Barr: So after I left you captured that really big You captured it. It was really huge, it and weighing about one ton, Brady Barr: Very That crocodile was Peter: It was huge, Brady Barr: That killed Peter: Yeah, it Brady Barr: You became It was in the newspaper Peter: Yeah, I was really, it was my first experience. NARRATOR: As part of the Peter and a team of rangers national park. This area is home to over 1100 of Nile River shoreline. But despite the large numbers, Crocs are masters of evasion. Brady Barr: Go, NARRATOR: When you do see Brady Barr: This shows you how during the daylight hours. Peter: Yeah, it's Brady Barr: Oh, it's It's just hard, really difficult an attempt to capture them. NARRATOR: Crocs are territorial NARRATOR: So Brady decides to entered the water. Brady Barr: We'll tie a rope right there. NARRATOR: He's showing the capturing crocs-one they'll man-eater. Brady Barr: Alright, guys, we're the crocodile walks through it. No bait. Let's get some rope and NARRATOR: Brady doesn't bait the park's other animals-like a Brady Barr: Try to make this and hopefully, we know the goes right here. We'll put it right like this. Ranger: I would suggest Brady Barr: Here? NARRATOR: A snare trap consists to a tree-that catches onto the the ground. The noose locks tightly to Brady Barr: Alright, we've We saw that giant crocodile saw us and come so we've positioned our snare With some luck we may come back crocodile snared. It's tied to the tree and it has the water. Let's get back in NARRATOR: They search for crocs without spotting another one. Peter: This place over here. NARRATOR: By midday, Brady and spot they remember Brady Barr: We're having a hard Last time I was here, we found we're thinking maybe we'll You gotta be careful, though. NARRATOR: The creatures they're survivors. Two hundred million years of nature's fiercest predators. Nile crocs are among the An ambush killer, it's perfectly Its eyes, ears and nostrils lie So while the croc's body its senses are on high alert. This deceptive posture means Victoria can remain almost victim...until it strikes. With a bite force of its jaws can literally cut its at a watering hole or... By sundown, they've still Their search continues when the animals are Until Brady gets one they can't go after a Peter: A croc? Brady Barr: Yeah, The big crocodile; Brady Barr: Okay, that's good, Brady Barr: Okay, that's good, NARRATOR: The croc slips away...leaving Brady Barr: Can you believe I think it's gonna be a good I think the crocodiles Let's see if we can NARRATOR: After Brady finally makes his first he'll present as part of a game for kids. Brady Barr: Hey, Animal Check this out...there's only there's 14 types of crocodiles. Brady Barr: Ummph! That's why you're holding crocodiles, That was a small crocodile, I've learned my lesson. Next time, I won't be as a small crocodile. Ouch! I'm 'bout ready to We've been out here I mean, tonight defines We had multiple misses, These rangers are probably &quot;And this guy's our teacher?&quot; All I know is it Tomorrow's a new day. NARRATOR: Day two on the Until he catches a croc here, wildlife rangers the skills to in Lake Victoria. And right now things Brady Barr: Crocodiles I mean, they've got a great sense of smell. Peter: Yes. Brady Barr: It's They're very in tuned to NARRATOR: So, Brady'll try a crocodile's own Brady Barr: For years I've unorthodox technique for I went to sniper school. I was trained by the experts This morning, I'm You can't just Man, you gotta camouflage the snare-everything has to that looks natural. I may not be giving the They may immediately say, Oh camouflaged laying under I'm not going up there. Brady Barr's gonna disappear. I've now become part of the bush to catch monster crocs! NARRATOR: Brady's going to a signs of croc activity. Brady Barr: The key is Stick this here like this. Stick this here like this. I'm gonna lay here very quietly NARRATOR: While the rangers wait in a boat at and wait. After two hours, Brady still It's pointless to continue. Brady Barr: Well, maybe enough credit. I guess you're not on this million years by Big crocs-you see 'em? Keep going, go fast. NARRATOR: Back along Brady needs to Brady Barr: We did say fast. NARRATOR: Otherwise, he can't hunt a man-eater. Brady Barr: In the it's just too hot for the so they crawl up on land, it's really stressful when Brady Barr: Did you see one? Peter: That one It's here-yeah, Brady Barr: Watch yourself, Brady Barr: Watch yourself, Get the rope! hold onto the rope! NARRATOR: Finally, the training young rangers. Brady Barr: Hang on, Come this way, let him roll I have it. This is a good one; we'll do I want to try to get the upper Get it behind the NARRATOR: The rangers' job is croc, so Brady can jump on But with the animal Brady Barr: Alright, Peter, just Peter...you help me When he rolls, let him roll. Okay, get the legs...pull That's excuse me. We're going do some I'm going to show you what this animal. We're gonna pick it up. but don't pick it You have to go And I'm gonna hold the head part, but hey, be careful. Don't let the head swing over three, go. Okay, let's get NARRATOR: From the start, Brady the croc. Brady Barr: As you saw the first on it, is to secure those jaws. If it gets a hold of anything, If it gets your arm, if it it'll roll and rip it off. NARRATOR: But even with the jaws very dangerous...because they'll Brady Barr: It'll hit you in That's bone...there's two crocodile -danger zone is from here...and it comes The other danger zone is The crocodile right now is it's scared. So we cover the eyes like that, the animal. Okay, let's roll it One, two, three-roll. NARRATOR: Next, Brady gives a Brady Barr: You guys know Now here's the vent. You know all reptiles You stick your finger in there it's a male, you'll but if you don't feel Stick your figure in and tell You feel anything? Yeah, it's a female...yeah, NARRATOR: At all times, Brady having a healthy respect Brady Barr: If that's your Please, if I don't the only thing I want you to danger zone, 'cause I months from now Peter's gonna Little John went into the I'm going to hold the jaws shut around and I'm gonna have you the nose, okay? If he starts struggling, Little John: You Brady Barr: Yeah, that's a No, no, no, not till I'm ready. NARRATOR: For the the simplest tasks can Brady Barr: No, no, no wait, Okay, don't cover Brady Barr: Man, I tell you, crocs over the years, but this ever done, because what I'm NARRATOR: By training Brady's preparing the next go to villages like Namoni Brady Barr: Wow, this crocodile It's eleven, feet six inches. NARRATOR: The capture and final part. Brady Barr: Peter and I will crocodile, which is absolutely whole procedure. You usually count one-two-three jump off. You ready? Oh, it is gonna go right See that? Let's go, man! That's how you safely Peter! You guys all did good. Now you know what Let's go catch a NARRATOR: Evening at Murchison under their belts, the wildlife their training. Before going after a Brady takes them out captures are far more common. That's when the crocs But it's also when catching The fact is, crocs have allowing them to see predator Plus, their low profile in water to even the most Brady Barr: Don't move! Oh, it's going the other Help, he's coming back, he's NARRATOR: While Brady's it's thrashing out of control. Brady Barr: Man, you talk This is a bad apple here. This is a mean croc, a dangerous all the rangers can come up. That thing is really pissed. NARRATOR: Faced with the rangers appear nervous. Brady Barr: Alright, I I told myself the next croc we rangers do it all by themselves, I'm going to try That is an angry crocodile. Oh, very dangerous when it's Oh, give him some slack! NARRATOR: While Brady's injure itself against the tree Brady Barr: When you it's not only dangerous for you, the animal, because these die, NARRATOR: Despite their crocs have an inner Brady Barr: He's getting tired. NARRATOR: During prolonged capture-lactic acid builds up Too much lactic acid acts depriving it of oxygen. A struggling croc can literally Brady Barr: Little John, NARRATOR: Brady has to teach to secure the croc. Brady Barr: Don't pull, Don't pull-just keep it tight. Peter: Don't wrap the Brady Barr: Oh, very good point. Yeah, man, it'll One, two, three. You guys, give us some slack. Let's secure these Pull those legs up, can you? This is a very I guarantee you this is Little John, come and NARRATOR: Now it's time for the the croc. Brady Barr: That's good... and I'm going to let My job is done. Tie the back legs...and someone Here and I'll hold Don't tie Little John Hey, you remember Little the crocodile. NARRATOR: Brady Overlooking a mistake here could Lake Victoria man-eater. Brady Barr: Here look, these Look at the size of that foot. Peter: This has to meet. That is a nice crocodile. Tip of the snout-hey, don't get into that eleven feet long. Let's roll it this way and We gotta find out but I'll bet you NARRATOR: But even if you can't let your guard down. Brady Barr: No, no, no, no! Don't ever get off. If you're ever gonna get off, Peter: Remember, I said the crocodile. Brady Barr: That's right. You gotta hold onto it. Somebody sex it. You feel a male organ? Peter: If you feel Brady Barr: Nothing? Here, John, hold this head. That's a female. I woulda guessed a But that's a heavy croc. That's a one-quarter-ton When you capture a when you capture many times you have to carry Instead of just untying it water, everyone's going to pick to take it through the woods to we'll release it over NARRATOR: Now comes the most Brady Barr: Alright, I'm going see what kind of Remember, the danger zone. Now what you're going to have and remove this and then once you've got to untwirl that. NARRATOR: Brady offers Big John Brady Barr: You're and then on &quot;three&quot; you to jump this way. You're gonna undo the jaws and If it comes after you, run. Hey, hey, hey, put that leg back put that leg down. That thing will whip Okay, John you're counting, you're coming this way. Big John: One, two, three. Brady Barr: Oh, John, That's pretty good, though. Anytime you get off a crocodile it's a good day. Ooh someone's shoe Did somebody lose a shoe? Oh, that scares me when I see We'll get your shoe NARRATOR:Brady shows the rangers Brady Barr: I'm going to turn going to go to the water. Is that an amazing You guys did it! Successfully captured and you guys did it! Wait, wait, you Alright, we got your shoe That's great, guys! Now we're headed to Lake where people are losing their crocodiles. And these man-eaters, are a lot more difficult to the national park. Let's get out of here! NARRATOR: Next morning, the begins. The team travels southeast from village of Namoni on Lake lurks in the water. For years, villagers have lived emerge suddenly...attack into the water. Peter: We shall go with the local communities are telling us NARRATOR: Peter explains the on the water. Given the topography, it'll work with a snare pole. Peter: If it's there that one will be trapped. Brady Barr: Alright, We're running out of daylight. NARRATOR: They're off to capture bigger, smarter and more Murchison Falls. Little John: Push the boat! NARRATOR: They set out in two boats man-eaters are used to type of boats that have Brady Barr: Alright, we got a We're gonna run out and try We'll set as many traps as we there've been many And they're taking Peter: Yeah. Brady Barr: They knock the boats Peter: Yeah, like that one who the last person. He comes and picks that one Brady Barr: Well, I'm Peter: Dives back NARRATOR: From the canoe, Brady become man-eaters. Brady Barr: People have natural prey. There really aren't any animals So the crocodiles really don't than domestic NARRATOR: They come to an area spotted. Here, they'll place the first technique, others using Brady's. Brady Barr: Peter's perfected snare with pieces of meat on it and bites it and snares So that's beef lung. That is so bad! I mean, I cannot We'll see. I think the my chicken to your cow Not as good as my chicken I like to dangle my so the crocodile bites it and snares NARRATOR: Brady first tried expedition in Mozambique. Back then, it Brady Barr: We got one. The trapped worked. Man, I knew the chicken It's right on the upper jaw So we'll see which the lung or the Brady chicken. In the past, when I would crocodiles, I wouldn't even there's not a tree These are actually But Peter has told me that papyrus and it's strong Peter: Yeah. Brady Barr: Okay, I'll It looks good. Peter: Yes. NARRATOR: Their snare traps set, for the night, passing Brady Barr: So he saw Brady Barr: These man-eating are just like phantoms. You never see them You just don't see them. They remain hidden and then NARRATOR: The next morning Brady Barr: One of the fishermen came back with some good news. He said not only is but he said we have two We're getting ready to find out. We're going to go NARRATOR: With word they've Brady and the team Brady Barr: The first Hey, now, we're We don't know if there's a Oh, I see it. NARRATOR: Peter's first So too is Brady's Brady Barr: First We're coming up on Three of five. Rope right in front of us! There's something on it. NARRATOR: With the line taut, crocodile is at the Brady Barr: I'm going to You'll try to get That's a huge crocodile NARRATOR: They could be moments man-eater. Brady Barr: Careful, NARRATOR: Then...disappointment. Peter: It has cut the wire! Brady Barr: A crocodile was broke the rope. And that rope is very We have two more traps. It's just heartbreaking. You just don't get that many man-eaters and that's why they're good at escaping NARRATOR: They move on toward baited traps. Brady Barr: That's Peter: In front! That side. Brady Barr: Do you see Brady Barr: Do you see the rope? NARRATOR: Within Little John feels a tug... Little John: He's here! Little John: Yes, he's pulling! Brady Barr: See, there's the Peter: Okay. We have the end of the snare, just two, two and a half Hang onto that rope! Okay wait, he's coming He's here! He's huge! Right there. Come on, this is NARRATOR: To Brady and Peter, a Brady snares the which is the length of his immense size. Brady Barr: That thing is huge. It's got to be four What do you think-four Hey, hey! Wait, wait, No celebrating yet. We He can still turn us over. I mean, you laugh; his He can turn the boat over; he the boat. Let's make sure we get the jaws Alright, here he comes. NARRATOR: The struggle but-unlike the mythic to the death. Instead, two battles are going and secure its jaws to another to keep Brady knows the the greater the chances of the croc. Brady Barr: There we go. NARRATOR: Brady can't secure the the boat. Brady Barr: Pull it We've got about a Thing is, this is just so dangerous animal, I mean, I'm crocodiles for 20 years. Okay. There you go. Hold it right there with Hold it right there. Pull its chin up if you You need to pull it up and away minute and I can get this... NARRATOR: While a plastic tie is now, tape is more effective. Brady Barr: Keep it there, NARRATOR: Finally, the Back in the village, anxious to hear that But out on the lake, there's NARRATOR: While Brady and Peter Lake Victoria, its Brady Barr: The crocodile's so we don't know how we're It's too big for us to paddle. Many times when you its lungs fill with We don't wanna kill this animal. This animal's probably Pull it up out of the water. Let's tie the tail and the head have our big boat tow our That's the safest NARRATOR: The rangers see up terror along the lake. Brady Barr: Nice throw. Brady Barr: Yeah, NARRATOR: They lash the croc's the canoe. Then they'll be towed Brady Barr: Okay, is that tight? Hey, it's missing It's not going to be as So this would be Peter: Yeah. Brady Barr: Third largest Well, we need to measure it. NARRATOR: On the way there's a moment to celebrate. Brady Barr: Hey, man-we did it. Hey and we caught Peter: Yes, improved technique. Brady Barr: Hey, man you're supposed to be here teaching Hey, you know what? I'm going to use beef lung. NARRATOR: A hero's welcome Brady Barr: Yeah, we got This is a big moment for them, this is the thing NARRATOR: But there's Brady Barr: Pull it up this Brady Barr: Yeah. NARRATOR: As the team pulls pandemonium erupts. Brady Barr: Yikes, we got some issues here. Alright, now the rangers are learned, what I taught We're going to secure the legs pick this beast up and NARRATOR: For the villagers, croc as they'll get...and live. Brady Barr: Now's We're going to put a tape So let's do it, you sit Coming under you...hand right Peter, 4.6 meters. Peter: Four point six meters! Brady Barr: That's 15 feet and The beautiful thing the Uganda Wildlife Authority, to destroy these rogue crocs-they want They see the value, the genetic So we're getting ready to put to take it to a protected area, unharmed, back into the wild. Is that beautiful? NARRATOR: Before releasing the croc must be Brady Barr: Keep NARRATOR: The truck moves where Brady and the rangers the capture. Brady Barr: Alright, we've now The biggest danger These big animals can't control they're ectotherms. They control their body behavioral changes. They can slide into water or Since we've captured Little John, can we get more Peter-are you A very large spider web. We're gonna tie it and then we're going to start area where we're NARRATOR: One hour later, the the rangers on its way to a new Wildlife Preserve. On Brady's return to America, takes a moment to reflect Brady Barr: Wherever problems can arise. But with a capture and you'll protect the animals And that's a great solution.