(engine revving) - They've changed their name three times, survived two world wars and gave us one Enzo Ferrari. They've been here for over a hundred years and show no signs of slowing down. (engines revving) - You guys have been virtually nonstop for the entire decade. This is everything you need on Alfa Romeo! (8-bit theme music) - Alfa Romeo wasn't always the car company that we know of today. It was established in of a French car company and was origianlly known as Darracq. After their found mister AKA Darracq Johnson. A guy who had little to or motor sport, matter of fact, he didn't even like being in cars! He was a very complicated man. By 1910 the company to keep mister Darracq happy and it was relaunched as Alfa. Five years later an by the name of Nicola Romeo invested money into Alfa factories to manufacture Alfa and Nicola would be before he worked up enough On February third of 1918 registered and Alfa was The historical emblem was complete. But what did these weird stand for? Well the left side is a red representing the city of Milan. The right side, well the right sides a little bit more complicated. Is it a dragon? Is it a snake? Is it eating or throwing In 2014 however Alfa Romeo announced, it is not a person being eaten but instead a human who was I guess by being eaten and Let me know in the comments, if you're pooping right now. Speaking of poop, World War One ended and with a butt load, of money and some left So they resumed production. The cars they produced were through 30 HP. These were a variant of As the name implies the sub models had between 20 to 30 wheel horsepower, depending on which trim you purchased. Yeah I know, 30 horsepower doesn't sound like a lot of horsepower but this is friggen late 1910s. A couple years later, and enterprising young man would join their team You ever heard of him? He was able to place second As a driver Ferrari was for Alfa Romeo. He made a much bigger impact after switching to a manager One of the first things he than the Piedmont Punisher himself, Vittorio Jano! Jano was responsible for that would put Alfa Romeo And by on the map, I mean, they basically became In the years following Jano's arrival, Alfa Romeo was doing so well. They were practically unbeatable. Spectators rooting for other race teams other than Alfa Romeo got and they started heckling They were like the heel. Jano being the bad (beep) responded by having a nice meal and the cars detailed mid race knowing he would still come out victorious. Around this same time Ugo Sivocci, one of Alfa Romeo's elite up to something. Sivocci was thought to be one that would never allow on the podium. Whenever he would do well in a race, something would go wrong or his car would have issues. Sivocci had enough, so he sat and he pondered until It was the day before the Sivocci hired a local sign painter to come paint his race car. What could he possibly have in mind that would make it go faster, everyone knows that red is Well he hired a painter with a green four leaf The quadrifoglio! - Quadri- - Sound familiar? The quadrifoglio logo, for good luck of course and it fricking worked. Nowadays the quadrifoglio that an Alfa means business. It's mark signifies that of the sportiest, the (engine revving) - Alfa had already known by the name of Scuderia Ferrari. It was managed by, you guessed it, a little The prancing horse that had was initially displayed on at the 1932 24 hours of spa. Those cars finished in Like Enzo would have it any other way! The guy loves winning. Enzo would stay on as director until a series of unfortunate events would Lemony Snicket him to It all started with the Italian government purchasing 80% of Alfa's company shares and then forcing them to move from Milan to Porto Bello on top of that, Enzo lost his decision making the famous factory racing was gone and replaced by Alfa Corse. Parent company, Alfa a similar situation. At the brink of World War Two, they were once again facing bankruptcy and were eventually bought out by the Fascist Italian government. They thought that winning of propaganda. This new influx of money to make some seriously, The only downside was fascist government which meant they once again had to for a second war effort. Because of this many of their were targeted and destroyed during the war but Alfa never lost They wanted to utilize their airplane engines and by going to fricking space. (engine roaring) - In 1952 they came out like it was straight outta the Jetsons. It was called the Disco Volante, Italian for flying saucer. The experimental race car in wind tunnels and was coefficient in both head and cross winds. In total, only five of But one was quickly torn Or so they say. Alfa Romeo took what they and made a land speeder for the masses. Code named, Julia. This sedan was unveiled in 1962, one year after they began It was the successor to the Juliette, whose popularity amongst earned it the nickname, the Italian girlfriend. That's what they call me. The Julia was well received by the public and was one of the most There were many variations of this car but the most bad (beep) one competition department, Auto Delta. The monster that they (tires burning out) - AM stood for America, even though it was never raced in America. This suped up version was Getting wider plastic 10 by 13 inch alloy wheels, borrowed from Alfa's teapot endurance car. The Julias absolutely dominated challenge, bringing in six between 66 and 72. The Julia's domination was felt worldwide from showroom stock races Remember that teapot 33 well Alfa decided to make, a street legal version. The 33 Stradale was released in 1967 and let me tell you, this thing is beautiful. Only 18 examples of this and five of them were That means there's only And you know me you guys, I like to have at least 15 of everything. The 33 Stradale came with a pushing out 227 horsepower (engine roaring) - Weighing in at only 1,500 pounds and would still be considered Further adding to it's clout. It was the first production Suck it Lamborghini. The car was devised by Franco Scaglione. Each aluminum body was hand but unfortunately they and the cars all had different everything. Some even had a different amount of wipers and lights. None the less, the cars were in 1967, making it the most expensive car, being sold to the public at the time. To put that into perspective, $17,000 today would be about $130,000. But the estimated resale value of the car sits quite comfortably (gasping and coughing) - I would have to shoot 10 to afford one car. (tires burning out) - Around that same time Alfa in 1966 that would become a legend. This car wasn't meant for racing, no it was for pure pleasure. It was called the Alfa Romeo Spider and no it didn't have eight legs or shoot any webs out its butt. It was a convertible. The spider was sold between 1966 and 1994. Receiving four changes known as series, one, two, three and four. The cars popularity grew in the 1967 film, the graduate, where that Dustin Hoffman boy does the wonkers with his friends mom. Alfa Romeo capitalized on this fact and released a special graduate trim level in the 1980's. The best selling spider It's most distinct known as a camtail. Besides a new thick the first production valve timing system. You hear that? It's freaking Vtec! Only available in the fuel The spider had a 111 horsepower and 112 pound feet of torque. It's almost a perfect horse port. Another notable car worth Unveiled at the 1971 Turn Car Expo, the car was an instant hit. Able to get the kids, and still kick a little (engine roaring) - No matter how hard they tried, no other manufacturers could The sud came with a which provided many advantages. It meant the car had a it had a lower hood. It had better aerodynamics and a roomier interior. A coupe version of this adding sprint to the end of it's name. The more angular and lower But building innovative just wasn't cutting the cheese anymore. With their government money drying up and struggling to make ends meat. Alfa Romeo would once again This time however they Under this new ownership Thanks to the help of computer Alfa Romeo 164 was the introductory sedan to sport this design language. 164 was equipped with what v six ever designed. Known as the Busso after (engine roaring) - In 1989, six years before they debuted the controversial SZ, also known as the ES30 which stood for, experimental sports car 3.0 liter. It came with a convertible Which stood for roadster zagado. Many people criticize the $67,000 msrp. If the car were still on sale today, it would be listed at like $140,000. That's like paying $140,000 for a BRZ. Under Fiat's ownership Alfa to their racing roots. Fast forward to 1992 and say The one five five was compact four door executive car but coincidentally was - [Announcer] Almost over on two wheels! - Winning the Italian German DTM championship, and the British Touring Car championship, this car was a freaking But the 155 wasn't done, it went back to the gym and hit the squat rack and then it did some curls, then it did some freaking dead lifts and it really focused on Coming back as the T155 v six TI at FIA class one touring car. It was raced from 1993 to 1996. This car stampeded its way to victory at a screaming 11,500 rpm, amassing of total of 38 wins To celebrate these victories, Alfa Romeo decided to stop United States in 1995. They just wanted to keep The decision certainly had nothing to do with the fact that they were, you know not selling any. How not selling much you ask? Alfa sold less then 600 And as soon as they stopped they also coincidentally rolled out what would be one of their Behold the 156. (engine revving) - It was made form 97 to 2005, approximately 680,000 cars in its nine year run. The 156 was plagued hurting its resale value and more importantly, (Engine revving and clanking) - You know what my man Puff says, &quot;Mo money, mo problems.&quot; - And the more cars that Alfa sold, the worse the problems became. Dealers couldn't keep up with that customers needed, causing Maybe it was a good thing that we didn't get the That's what you call In 2003 Alfa Romeo revealed It would come to life four years later as the eight c competition. If you were rich and lucky enough to get one of these bad boys, you got a 4.7 liter v eight. Making 444 horsepower. Remember how Alfa stopped in 1995 well, they finally realized and resumed exporting cars eight c but because there Alfa Romeo dealers over here. Customers got hit with imposed by the middleman. Thus raising the already So obviously it didn't sell very well. Somebody bought em, I don't know. Fast forward to 2014 when Alfa the US market. After learning from their they decided to open Good job! To mark their official Alfa introduced the four c. (tires screeching) - The four c was a groundbreaking car, with it's carbon fiber monocock chassis. A feature usually reserved for exotics. It was powered by a teeny little baby boy, mid mounted four cylinder engine. And currently Alfa still the Julia Saloon and Stelvio SUV. These cars a rocking a Ferrari source, 2.9 liter, twin turbo v six But Julia gets adaptive suspension, a torque vectoring rear differential. While the Stelvio, you know it's an SUV so it comes with all wheel drive and enough room to fit all your friends! In mid 2018 Alfa Romeo revealed hinting at the sexy body and eight c in the works for 2022. Unfortunately, due to slower of the brand, both the eight Alfa Romeo has been around and tried their best to hold Hopefully, they can turn things around and come back stronger than ever and give us that real that they're famous for. (engine revving) - That was a long one, I'm gonna go take a nap. (beep) - Hi, you may be wondering Well this isn't just any field, it's a field of dreams. What's your dream, is it to And $20,000 in cash? Yeah I'd say that's a pretty good dream. Lucky for you, we've partnered with Omaze 2020 BMW M8 Competition and $20,000 in cash. You might be saying, &quot;James, even if I won,&quot; &quot;I can't afford the taxes.&quot; Well guess what pal!? Taxes and shipping are included. You win, you get the car and $20,000. Every time you donate it Medical Center. Those are the guys who saved my life. It's a cause very near Literally, they went into my heart and they saved my life. So if you like me and you like the fact that I'm still alive and you wanna win a Go to omaze.com/donut to enter today. (beep) - We got tons of new shows coming out, make sure you don't miss any. Make sure your subscribed, make sure you hit that bell. Donut is gonna be on every day. We're working our hardest Follow Donut on Instagram follow me on Instagram I love you.