If you're fed up with getting stuck in express yourself or constantly feeling English, this video is for you! Becoming happens to you. &quot;Okay, I'll just listen to subtitles and read lots of books and be fluent!&quot; No, that doesn't happen that or deciding to renovate your house, right? or people asking them, &quot;Hey, do you mind because I need to renovate it.&quot; And then That was not a good idea! Maybe I need to wall.&quot; Then you go ahead and break that and the house is a mess right and you sort of the same thing but different. have to make it a project of yours. what's working for you and what's not attention and to do only the things that wasting time with the wrong teachers. You these videos without really doing wasting time doing things that don't know what you need and the only person I'm gonna teach you the three steps that strategy to understand what to learn and effectively and how to boost your owning that fluent mindset that will The way I see it, fluency has three knowledge of words, knowledge of grammar, right? Knowing how to use certain and how to structure the a sentence. is 'practice', which is taking all the into spoken English. This is usually the an easier time reading and writing and to speak, that's the main challenge. to structure it fast and fluently, and of sound clear when speaking so you The last pillar is 'confidence'. It's great can learn for hours on end and you can your friends, but if you don't have the needed, when you're asked a question, meeting or in front of people or just in like you avoid fire then you need to one of the pillars but it's also the learn more and when you practice more, of these three elements are essential if language. Now that we know these three improve in each and every element here. very lucky. I think that we all are. We information out there. There are so many resources. They can just reach your hand it is that you don't know what to focus everything that is out there because result is that it can be overwhelming, a Let me give you an example. If you still present simple, do not go and learn the used tenses before you move on to more Phrasal verbs are very important, but if and 'at' when you're talking about time and space, do not there in the world. Focus first on the use them daily, okay? just on that when it comes to the different nuances of the American you're connecting words, if your R's and L's are still getting confused, okay? I'm not saying it's not important, it's not the things that will get you the best apparent things, the things that you because you're so tired of it or and important elements that keep getting you don't waste your time learning words that you know but never use, that you you use in reading and writing but you results. Learning new words and along with the other 1,500 words that get you results. When you're planning understand what are the topics that you on the things, the critical pieces, that The critical pieces that still hold you when you speak English. Do not go, learn everything that is out there. not dealing with what's important for the most boring stuff. It's the stuff of you, so you know that you need to do then you're like pushing it to the No. Open that box you will see how everything is so much, practicing English. Remember that it's need to study every day for two hours. English-speaking country in order to you can do it from a non-English fluent and you can master the language happen. community members take huge leaps in communicate just by practicing effectively? First of all, to plan it out, to learn. You need to be aware of what yourself. Maybe you need to videotape feedback, looking in the mirror to make rounding your lips as you're speaking. into a conscious active exercise from that. The small changes make all the as possible. Speak to yourself in the car. native speakers around you to be able to that constant feedback. Understand that trying to understand how to say it, even speakers, it's a great way to improve. In have a much easier time to practice with less judged. They feel a lot more freedom same boat and this is why I started our member, please click the link below and people to discuss meaningful things in constantly practice English to practice speak. And when you speak about connect with other people from around better, and to be honest, is the most seen online. So click on the link and confidence. You know that voice in your mistake. Oh, you're not gonna be able to finish the sentence why even bother think you're stupid!' Do you know that? Do voices. It's not just in your head. I just heads and even in my head because, what right now in front of the camera, there and they're like, 'You didn't sound good That's the best you can do??' how much space I'm willing to give this her to take the back seat because I'm and that's more important than making a When you're communicating with other to get to know you, to learn from you, to about you or about the world, even if yourself back because of mean voices, you be you, even if it's in the second there are a few things that you need to completely change your mindset and those I hate nothing more than hearing the because when you set the bar so high, the you'll never be able to reach there. If impossible. You don't need to sound yourself, but your most fluent, expressive Don't try to achieve something that will that will empower you. Really trust me on change that mindset because you've been become fluent is to sound like a native native speaker is something that and if you're not born into the language, language and you can master it and you again I've done it myself but I know the of hard work and sometimes the goals fluent, finding the words, sounding clear even if people still ask you where need to be okay with that. You need to table as a non-native speaker is your hide it. Become clear, have a powerful voice, say it's with an accent and it doesn't me to the second thing and that is - way to learn. Don't beat yourself up afraid of making mistakes because that wait till it's perfect to speak - your your thought, okay? Don't wait for you to you speak. Start speaking, get stuck, make you're okay with making mistakes, and have come mistakes, with my pronunciation mistakes, don't see because I've been writing I've forgotten how to spell correctly, to be able to make those videos for you. from my videos, then I know that I've job in this world because at the end of it's about communicating with the world matter in what language you do that. The Now you know that in order for you to action and this is why I want you to with us in the comments below two things. with knowing what to learn and how to and actually doing the work practicing, that you hear in your head? And then the write down your game plan. What are you that you are going to learn in order to Really, the most specific you could be much time out of your day you're willing order to become the most fluent you've highly encourage you to join our amazing it right here below. I know I'm not saying it it's really the most can share and learn from and create telling you don't waste your time. Click Thank you for letting me share this with your mind into it and you do the work, much for watching and I'll see you next