Bodhisattva is above Please bless me Ye Shengtian I hope to find my long-missing son soon. master The young master also took a rest Where is he? Lord Jiang, please call my son back. I went to Beijing and the Ye family has a successor. Ha ha Happy wedding Hey Mama Fan Did Qingqing receive it? I just arrived and was about to go up. Yeah Then you go quickly Relatives and friends are here Waiting to see the bride. Okay, don't worry. I'll take Qingqing back right away. Dad, I'm here to pick up Qingqing. Ye Fan, I said it first. On your terms It's not easy to marry my daughter. Today you must show enough sincerity Don't worry, Dad. I will definitely treat Qingqing well. I will also give her a happy and carefree life Hahahaha, that sounds good. Let's go upstairs. Thank you, Dad. Dad, you are here This is a gate wine. I want to take my daughter away He must drink it. Hahaha mom You see, we still have to worship at noon. How about we give you this wine as a token of our appreciation? This person hasn't been picked up yet. You've started to be perfunctory. Hahaha I mean, brother-in-law You have to drink this wine. If you don't drink this wine I can't take you away Hahaha Okay, I drink. Happy today Hahaha Hahaha Alas, not leaves You can't drink like this. You get drunk easily. bye bye Swallow, stop drinking. Not a leaf Don't drink the leaves Hey, Ye Zi is not Aunt Ye Fan Drinking so much Let's forget it. Forget it, my daughter will marry him. That's a lifetime thing. I'm a fucking I have to check for her too. There has to be a limit to our control, right? There's so much wine here. How about we try another way? Sure. The remaining wine is 5,0005,000 per bottle. Ha ha Give me money so I don't have to drink this wine There are 12 bottles of leaves left A total of 60,000 how do you say I've given you the chance Ye Fan paid or drank You choose My day That's too much. There's so much wine. If we drink it, we'll both die. OK I give sister in law Mom, I'll give you a red envelope Even if you pass this level, let's go upstairs. Thank you Butler Jiang just got the exact news Young Master is getting married today The master and the young master are getting married today I'll leave this matter to you. Remember my son Ye Shengtian The wedding must be grand and magnificent, sir. Bixue, you should immediately acquire Tianhao Group Held in 3 days Jiangzhou Mingliyuan officially announced the application for the young master We are going to hold a party for the young master. A wedding that attracted worldwide attention No rush Got it? Walk Liang Gui, I'll come pick you up. Qingqing, could you please open the door? Qiangzi red envelope Hey, all for you Su Yuelai Oh, it's not that easy to pick up the bride. This man The easier it is to get something, the less you know how to cherish it. You are right. If only it were that easy to get How can you prove your sincerity to my sister? Right, brother-in-law? right Then you say What else do you want me to do? Opening gift: 100,000 Opening gift: 100,000 Mom You didn't tell me this before. So sudden Where can I get so much money for you? No matter where you get it from Landlord, you can't get the money. You can't get in through this door, right? Do you guys need some shame? Upstairs 60,000 It costs another 100,000 yuan to enter Is this marriage going to end? Is it over yet? Can't you give me some? Ah Qiangzi Damn, I was wrong. If you ask me, don't get married. They're fucking bullying you. I'm treating you like an ATM, do you know that? Kid Do you still have money? I rely on Ye Fan and the others are fucking riding on your head Do you have any manly backbone? The wedding is in an hour. My mom and the others are waiting for me in the hotel. Then they fucking get through it. Just get through it My number is dirty I'll transfer it to you Mom, look I I Can I gather more than 50,000 yuan? You wanna bargain? Brother-in-law, let me tell you Not even a cent less You can't even afford 100,000 yuan for a wedding. Hey, you live like this. It's really embarrassing haha Your fucking monthly salary is 3,000 How dare you say that? Take out 100,000 yuan and try it You Ye Fan worked very hard Su Yue Speak up for this man I just feel Ye Fan works so hard to make money But I never said that I worked hard. We shouldn't blame him anymore. Hahaha It sounds like you sympathize with him. How about this? You pay for the money he needs. I just want him to I can give more Dad, do you think this is okay? Let's get married first After the wedding I'll find a way to make up for this money. Is it okay? It's a nice thought. You got married This is a debt. Who should we look for? You fucking count You have to take the money out Otherwise, no need to talk to Ye Fen I'm in Su Yue, this This kid has to wait until this time Holding I wish you and Qingqing a long and happy life together. Su Yue Thank you I remember this feeling. Ye Fan Wish you happiness mom Do you think this is okay? Ye Fan, I'm not deliberately making things difficult for you. I am Qingqing's mother I have to promise Who is Qingqing marrying? She must have enough ability to give her happiness. Do you understand? Hahaha Okay, come in. Thank you mom Qingqing I'm here to pick you up. Ye Fan Why are you panicking? The procedure isn't over yet. There are also programs That's you. Recite the Nand German Code on the spot first Suddeutsche Gesellschaft How come you forgot it? It seems He didn't take our feelings to heart at all. How is it possible? How could I not take my feelings to heart? Take pride in caring for your wife Ignoring my wife is a shame Take pride in serving your wife Shame on my wife for bothering her I am proud of paying the above salary Shame on hiding bonuses Is it ok? Please speak. etc. There is one last procedure There is another procedure This is a guarantee. These are some of the conditions you must abide by after marriage. If you can do it Then I can marry Qingqing. Okay, you tell me. First, all income after marriage should be handed over The amount of monthly pocket money is determined by the woman Second, cut off all contact with other opposite sex third The husband's pre-marital property is included in the couple's common property The fourth, fifth and sixth children's surnames follow the woman's. Seventh, after marriage, the man takes care of all the housework Eighth, after marriage, no matter where the man is, Must be on call No excuses Ninth: You cannot live with your parents-in-law after marriage If the above terms are violated The woman has the right to ask the man to leave the house And compensated the woman 1.2 million after the divorce Payable within one year Ye Fan, do you agree? Oh, Qingqing is so nice Pregnancy first Give her a baby The child takes the woman's surname. Are you blind? A woman is pregnant for ten months Paid the cost of childbirth and raising children What's wrong with taking the woman's last name? Is it your dignity as a man? It can only be experienced through reality, right? You pay the cost. We are responsible for the house, car and gift. We didn't force you to buy a house or a car. If you have the ability, don't marry me. This is obviously you men. In order to satisfy their desire to reproduce Willing to pay the cost A Liu No boy's wish is to buy a house or a car. They do it out of love and responsibility. Say less Do you agree to Ye Fan's request? snort Hesitated for so long It seems that he is calculating gains and losses. You have to think about your image. A man who truly loves you You don't need to speak He will take the initiative to pay for you Because he thinks you are worth it. Some men say enough is enough Shut up Why are you so fierce? You don't have the ability He has a bad temper. I told you to shut up Ah Liu, I'm a girl How dare she hit me? Stinky loser You get married Digging, searching, chattering Look at your behavior. What face do you have? ah What are you doing Hit me Ye Fan What are you doing Qingqing You finally spoke up. I've been with you for three years. What did they mean by that sentence? What what does it mean? Ye Fan Didn't you say you would treat me well forever? Didn't I treat you well? So what did you mean by questioning me just now? Did I question you? I'm just saying They just said what those terms mean Look, you said you didn't question me. You're obviously questioning me. Ye Fan, you have changed You weren't like this before. In the past, you would immediately agree to anything I said. not to mention Today is our wedding day. Can't you just let me go? I didn't let you go. But everything has to have a limit. You mean I'm being unreasonable? Ye Fan, we are not married yet. You just have no patience with me. If I really marry you Can you still be patient with me? You see, now I am too lazy to even give you a perfunctory response. I can't imagine it. If I really marry you What will you do to me? Ye Fan, go back by yourself. sorry Sorry Qingqing I just had a bad attitude. I apologize to you Ye Fan Is there something you can't tell me? Why do you have to tease me and be mean to me? I tell you I'm angry now I'm sorry. I was wrong. not enough Unless you kneel down and beg me Sunny Why bother making things so difficult for Ye Fan? It's embarrassing that I don't even have the most basic sincerity to apologize Is this an apology? Sunny Look, he's not kneeling. To put it bluntly, face is more important than wife. Qingqing sorry I just had a bad attitude. I apologize to you I beg you to forgive me kowtow I counted to 31 2 Hum, this time? I'll forgive you first. If there is a next time Just go there by yourself. Qingqing Are you calm now? Can I talk to you about the terms? The terms just now were all discussed by my mother and me. Any questions? There are some terms that I just can't accept. Ye Fan, you said you would spoil me Love me and listen to me Now you say you can't do it No, I don't mean that. Listen to my explanation That's what you just said. There is no problem with handing over your salary after marriage I have no problem cutting off contact with all members of the opposite sex Even if your child has your last name, it's fine. But there is only one thing My mother must live with us. It's not the two of us living together. Your mother moved in with me. What does this mean? Don't be angry Listen to me Now there is such a situation Our wedding room is my mother's He sold his old house. Plus he bought it with his life savings. You don't let him live here. He has no place to live. Do you understand? I don't care This is our wedding room. Why should you let your mother live here? Then you don't let her live here. Where does she live? It's her problem It's not my problem Why should I compromise? Qingqing That's my mom. She gave birth to me and raised me She married for me She sold her house. I let her live on the street Am I still human? Have you ever thought about me? Do you know how many problems there are between mother-in-law and daughter-in-law? I think you really don't want me to have a good life. I strongly disagree with this matter Then why can your mother move in? My mother raised me for more than 20 years. He came to enjoy Isn't this the way it should be? My mother raised me for more than 20 years. Isn't it right for him to move away and enjoy his life? Besides, your mother has a house. My mother has no house. He sold the house. I told you your mother has no house to live in. That's your family's problem. It has nothing to do with our family. Ye Fan, if you are capable You can definitely buy your mother another house Instead of asking me to compromise, understand? Qingqing, I want to marry you I quit smoking I also quit drinking You want a gift of 288,000 yuan I give you the face you want You want high standards I book a five-star hotel I buy Moutai You said you have a younger brother I understand that the betrothal gift should be given to the bride's family. I can understand that you don't have a dowry. Even just now Your mother asked me for 16 bowls I didn't say anything But I am a person I'm just an ordinary person I've been trying my best. Why it's not enough Tell me How hard do I work? In your eyes, that's enough. Why Ye Fan, what do you mean? Are you settling accounts with me? You said you would make money to support me. Now you think marrying me is costing you too much money, right? No ability Be fussy about details Ye Fan, look at you now, you look like a man Ye Fan, I have raised my daughter for so many years. It's not for you to ruin. Waste Ye Fan, don't you understand? You're incapable. It's because you're poor that your mother has no house to live in. You try to kidnap me with our relationship Why should I If you have this attitude I won't get married. You almost got it. Ye Fan worked so hard He just wants to give you a home. But what about you? You didn't even have a word of comfort. All accusations Are you worthy of him? Shut up You shut up You won't marry when you're old. Don't think I don't know You despise my poor family conditions I feel like I'm not worthy of you I can't give you face and dignity But I tell you If I hadn't lifted you up to the sky You are nothing Ye Fan, do you know that in this world Who is the most unsuccessful man? You work hard to make money, so what? You can't afford your hometown Dad, you can't make money I'm 30 years old. I can't even afford the money for the wedding. You are a waste Ye Fan, I tell you It is a blessing for you in your previous life that I, Liuqin, marry you. Who else would marry you except me? This kind of man who earns 3,000 yuan a month Su Yue I know I have nothing now But I will try my best to be good to you will you marry me I do Drive the pipe to ridiculous Ye Fan, what do you mean? Propose to another woman at my wedding What do you want to do? What do you care about me? And you, Su Yue You are so shameless Shut up Okay, no wonder you've been helping me before. You guys already had a relationship. This loser sister actually cheated on you behind your back You've already had your legs You have to talk like this today Love thinks whatever you want Why do you want to just leave? What do you want? You ruined my sister for five years. Must pay 500,000 yuan for mental damages Not even one less child Your family really opened my eyes. Stop the fucking bullshit. Either take the money today Otherwise, no one can leave this door. Ask for money Dreaming Hey hey hey sister Ye Fan, you dare to hit my brother Didn't you see what he just did? So what? He's my brother. Whatever he did This is not a reason for you to hit someone. You apologize to him immediately. It's obviously his fault You asked me to apologize to him. Affectionate You are really a Voldemort. I used to tolerate you Because I love you Don't even think about touching me anymore. In three days Take the three gold gifts I gave you Including returning the 160,000 yuan your mother just cheated me of. otherwise I want you to look good Su Yue, let's go Su Yue Ye Fan You two dogs I want you to look good. Sister Ye Fan, that bastard Let our family lose face This bad breath must be let out What is it to him? Still want money, no way Su Yue Ye Fan I will never let you go this time. Shangjing Night Market Butler Jiang goes to Shangjing Night Market The trillion-dollar asset spanning the country The world's top night market in Shangjing This top wealthy family What is he doing in our house? Hahaha Old servant Ye's housekeeper Jiang Wenlie pays a visit to Mrs. Shao Mrs. Shao, hahaha Sister, you have been favored by Master Ye. How can marriage be so sloppy? This is the invitation letter for Tianhao Group's celebrity banquet 3 days later At the banquet I will personally serve the young master and the young lady. Host a grand wedding Su Yue Thank you for helping me out today. Not to help you out. I really promised you Ye Fan actually I already liked you three years ago. Just at that time You deeply love Liu Qing I can only like it silently I didn't expect to wait for three years. I can finally say it openly Ye Fan I I like you Let's get married Soehime But I have nothing I have everything I only want you Su Yue Have you really thought it through? how Got the marriage certificate Do you still want to regret? No, I feel better. I understand Ye Fan can marry you This is the decision I will never regret in my life. Su Yue I, Ye Fan, will not let you down by committing suicide good I'll go back and tell my family first. I'll take you to meet my parents tomorrow. This password is your birthday. Don't come empty-handed Old servant Ye's housekeeper Jiang Wenlie pays a visit to the young master Lixue meets the young master I Elder, you got the wrong person. I'm just an ordinary person I'm not some young master. Young Master, this old slave will never admit his mistake. The master was hunted by his enemies. Afraid of involving you So I put you at the door of a farmer's house. Leaving half of the pendant as a keepsake Pendants Master, look This is a pendant You know at a glance how so Am I really Master, please accept my respect. From now on, the Ye family in Shangjing will be led by the young master. Ginger Butler Get up quickly Butler Jiang, I believe this is true. But but I don't know anything Please rest assured, young master I have prepared everything for you. This is my daughter Jiang Lixue Studied abroad since childhood Proficient in business management and financial operations And he is also a world martial arts champion From today She will serve as your personal secretary. Help you solve all the difficulties you encounter Hello, Master Ye Hello Master The master also ordered that your wedding must be grand and magnificent so We have acquired the first listed company in Jiangzhou Tianhao Group You are the President Three days later We will invite all the celebrities in Jiangzhou Officially disclose your Night Market identity To promote your wedding with Mrs. Shaw You are talking about the Tianhao Group, which is worth hundreds of billions. Is the president I am the young master Well besides You're talking about building momentum for my wedding with Mrs. Shaw. Yes, I have personally sent the invitation letter Sent to Miss Liu Qing I've divorced him. Master, do you need me for the invitation? Never mind, let him go. He always despised me for my poor background. Said I was not worthy of marrying him I'd like to see When he knew I was worth a trillion How to feel Yes By the way, Mr. Jiang Jiang How much do you know about the Jiangzhou Su family? The Jiangzhou Su family doesn't know much about it. I just know that it seems that they are not doing well. Seeking cooperation everywhere Want to survive the crisis Butler Jiang, can I trouble you with something? Master, you said I will definitely do it Please, in the name of the new president of Tianhao Group Help them through the crisis May I Good Master I will send 1 billion orders immediately Many thanks Please prepare a generous gift for me. I personally sent it to Su's house It's Su Yue Thank you for trusting me when I had nothing. I, Ye Fan, will never let you down Hey, what is the owner of Tianhao Group? What is the owner of Tianhao Group? Tianhao Group Owner Start Today Build a relationship with the other person at all costs Prepare the best gift for me right now I'm going to meet the new owner of Tianhao Group Jiangzhou's power reshuffle My Li family's chance to rise has come hahaha Do you need me to accompany you in? I don't need to go in by myself. This is a gift for you Thousand-year-old Snow Mountain Ginseng The only one in the world Priceless Many thanks This red rope is Young Master, this life has been exquisite for thousands of years. Need to be locked with a red rope It's so magical I always thought it was a legend. I didn't expect it to be so true. Thank you so much Parents This is Ye Fan Hello, uncle, aunt What about the gift? oh First visit A small gift is not a sign of respect aunt This piece of trash wants to marry my daughter mom A small gift but a big sentiment Auntie, this is the thousand-year-old top-grade snow mountain ginseng. Hahaha thousand-year-old snow mountain ginseng Qianjin Snow Mountain Ginseng There is only one master It was collected by Shangjing Night Market in the early years. Ye Fan Next time, before sending fake goods, I advise you to do some research. To avoid embarrassment How do you know that the goods I sent are fake? Why do you want to say This thousand-year-old snow mountain ginseng is given to you by Shangjing Night Market That's right, next time before you brag Also first look at your own identity Are you worthy? Why am I unworthy? It's really out of my mouth You are not welcome in my Su family Hey, Uncle Su, why are you so angry? I'm going to make him feel ashamed today. Never dare to appear in front of the Su family again Ye Fan You just mentioned this thousand-year-old snow mountain The Shangjing Night Market is a great place for people to enjoy the scenery. But do you know Shangjing Night Market is the first family of Daxia Covering the sky overnight Even if it is the king in front of Then be polite. And you He is just a low-class person born in the countryside. You don't even have the qualifications to look up to me. Now you dare to say that this thousand-year-old snow mountain life is really a disaster It was given to you by Ye Shi from Shangjing Why I dare not Good good good You really won't cry until you see the coffin There is another way to verify the quality of Qianli Snow Mountain Ginseng True or False Clear at a glance What can I do? It is said that the thousand-year-old snow mountain has become exquisite If I don't tie it with this red string It will disappear immediately As long as you untie the red string on this snowy mountain True or false Well, that's a benefit. If you untie the red string Snow mountain disappears Can you afford the consequences? What can't you bear? Besides, you're a fake. Uncle and Aunt Do you two also use this method to verify the authenticity? Uncle and Aunt Ye Fan is sure that you dare not solve it. That's why I dare to give you two fake goods. Of course it has to be solved He is just a wage earner Is there any way to send a real thing? good I hope you don't regret it. Good Ye Fan Your trick will be exposed soon. Wait a moment I bought the red snow mountain ginseng The year is indeed less than a thousand years There's no need for anything else. Ms. Su Do you want to take the blame for this piece of shit? This is what I bought How to carry art Ye Fan, you are a grown man standing behind a woman Don't you feel ashamed? Su Yue Zhang Believe me Please What else can Ye Fan say now? Oh my god, he's gone. Could this really be the thousand-year-old snow mountain ginseng? This is impossible Li Weize Thousand-year-old snow mountain ginseng is in short supply Can you afford it? Hahaha Ye Fan, I really underestimated you I didn't expect you to have made preparations for both situations. If you don't hate this mountain ginseng You can treat it as the real thing. Fake If someone knows You use your newly learned tricks to deceive people Play a game of death without a match Really? It's a pity that you use your intelligence in the wrong place. This stinky boy To marry my daughter Yu'er It's really painstaking Summer insects cannot talk about ice A frog in a well cannot talk about the sea Still stubborn I tell you Fake is fake Even if you are very good at that trick That's useless. Because this is my only gift Only then can the Su family survive the crisis Li Shao, what do you mean by this? Uncle Su, do you know that Tianhao Group has changed its owner? certainly This is also the key to whether my Su family can survive the crisis. Uncle Nasu Look what this is This is the 1 billion order contract of Tianhao Group good Ye Group recently visited Jiangzhou Arrange Young Master Ye to take charge of Tianhao Group A celebrity banquet will be held in three days. My father was on good terms with Ye So I specifically asked the Su family for this cooperation. Help the Su family through the crisis? Great, we have this contract. My Su Family's Crisis and Disasters Hahahaha Li Shao You are really a great benefactor of our Su family. Hey Uncle Song Yu'er, why don't you thank Li Shao properly? Thank you, Mr. Li What are you laughing at? I value this gift more than your snow mountain ginseng The value is more than a thousand times I laugh at your shamelessness What's the meaning This contract It was obviously given to the Su family through my benefit. What does it have to do with you? Your Benefits Hahaha what Do you mean You are the new president of Tianhao Group Master Ye is not Hahahaha that's right Awesome! Uncle Su, look at this. Since Young Master Ye is your Son-in-law It seems that I am being too sentimental. You bastard. You can pretend to be Young Master Ye, right? Don't think your last name is Ye You can establish a relationship with the Jingye family. Ye Fan really didn't say such nonsense. I didn't say anything I am Master Ye Residence You think I don't know your past? You can't even afford the money for a wedding. How dare you say you are the son of the Ye family? snort Ye Fan, I'm with you. Not for anything else You really don't have to make up these identities. Su Yue, believe me I will prove to you that I am not lying Jiang Butler Come to Su's house within 3 minutes snort Really think of yourself as the young master of the Ye family I tell you Even my father You have to be careful when you meet Butler Jiang Serve people with kind words Did you just yell at me? That means you are not qualified enough to act. Just keep acting. Just for your pitiful self-esteem You're willing to tell this big lie. It's a pity that your acting is so poor Uncle Su Just a reminder If we continue to let this guy do whatever he wants When the time comes, it will be heard by Ye I'm afraid the Su family will have a hard time ending. You are such a heartless person. You want to kill our Su family? Get out of the Su family right now, Dad. Ye Fan didn't mean that. What time is it? You're still speaking for this bastard. Do you still have the Su family in your heart? Is there still a father like me? Ye Fan Explain it to me There's nothing to explain. Butler Jiang will be here soon Everything will come to light You keep talking nonsense to me Believe it or not, I will break your legs Let him feed the fish in the sea Dad, Ye Fan, please leave quickly You don't leave My dad really did it. Your Su Yu father Tomorrow night party You will understand everything, Dad. dad Song Xue, I tell you Divorce this person Golden Gate Newbie I don't recognize my father I won't leave dinner. You are making trouble I'm doing marriage That's the parents' order. Matchmaker's words Nie Jiang's housekeeper in Shangjing arrive Jiang Butler Butler Jiang really came to my house Could it be Ye Fan Really a girl for a while You are a person who is responsible for others. How could Butler Jiang be so rude because of a loser? Come to our Su family This is obviously because of Li Shao's face. Lee Shao Oh After all, the Li family and the Ye family are on good terms. Butler Jiang is here in person It's natural, right? Meet Butler Jiang You are I am Li Weize Li Wenyan is my father He is Wen Yan's son Hey, is there anything wrong? Uh, I have admired Butler Jiang's demeanor since I was young. See you today Three lives are lucky You are Miss Su It's me Very good and addictive Jiang Butler Tianhao Celebrity Banquet Tomorrow Night My Li Family I have already told your father about this. Can you, the Li family, seize this opportunity? It depends on whether you have this fate. I would like to thank Butler Jiang. Butler Jiang, I have something to ask you. What's up? I wonder if the Su family can attend Tian Haomin's banquet. Naturally you can The Day After Tomorrow Su Family Beware Thank you, Butler Jiang Since the young master is not here Just leave it unattended I have something else to do I'm leaving first Farewell to Butler Jiang Oh, our Su family really relied on Li Shao's clan Oh, Subov Why so polite? The Su and Li families were good friends. What's more, I have been in love with Su Yue for a long time. This is nothing. Li Shao Just now, Butler Jiang said What is your Li family's destiny? Tomorrow night at the Queen's Celebrity Banquet Butler Jiang will recommend a great man to my Li family oh Uncle Su It's okay to tell you That big shot The future successor of the Ye Group Son of Ye Shengtian, the world's richest man The son of the richest man That's right As long as my Li family seizes this opportunity Riding the wind What does Jiangzhou mean to me? Hahaha I just said it Li Shaoding is a rare talent Hey, Mr. Li, don't worry. I will definitely kick that rubbish out of the Su family mom Ye Fan and I are truly in love Shut up. Since ancient times, marriage has been about matching How can a loser like him be worthy of being a son-in-law of our Su family? Hey Su Yue Auntie, don't get excited. Doesn't that guy call himself the Young Master of the Ye Clan? Wait until the Tianhaominglou banquet Butler Jiang recommends the real Young Master Ye I wonder how he can continue to act. Li Shao, only that waste I'm afraid he doesn't even have the qualifications to enter the banquet. Oh, yes, yes. Auntie reminded me just in time. You said he was a low-level rubbish How can you possibly enter our upper-class society? Hahaha Master This is a luxury shopping mall under Tianhao Group. Everything you need for the party tonight You can choose here All consumption inside is free good I have something to tell the mall manager. You go shopping first, I'll come find you later good Hey, isn't this Ye Fan? Haha when This luxury store is also built by trash like you Wait, you're not trying to get back together with my sister, are you? He is such a waste, he deserves it What a pity! My sister is now a phoenix in the sky. A toad like you can only be wishful thinking. Ye Fan, it's impossible for us Stop bothering me. Entanglement Isn't it? I am young, beautiful and gentle And you have nothing, whether it's knowledge or status. We are not destined to be from the same world Please don't appear in front of me again. Liu Xiang You think too highly of yourself. You're not going to say you're here to buy something, are you? Hahahaha Ye Fan, this is a luxury store. Not a roadside stall. You add up your whole body I can't even afford a pair of pants here. Can't afford I can choose everything here Is it interesting that Ye Fan is stubborn? I know your family situation best. But any bag here costs hundreds of thousands. You only make a few thousand dollars a month. What do you buy? Why You're not going to sell your house for nothing. Just to show off in front of me Let us regret it. What a pity. Don't say you have no ability. Even if you are now the richest man in Jiangcheng You don't even have the right to lick my sister. Hum, forget it. There's no point telling you so much You won't understand Get out of here now This is not the place for you What are you standing there for? Get him out now. It will affect my mood for shopping. Don't do this job anymore. Oh, you have such great ability Who are you? Master Hahaha Hey beauty I heard you right. You call him Master Hahahaha sister He called him Master Xie Fan Please ask this actor to come and play this play with you It cost a lot of money. Don't act in front of us. Don't we know who you are? Haha, why don't you just take a piss and look at yourself See if you are worthy of Ye Fan You are so childish You think if you do this I will think you are rich Master, I will regret it. I will cry and beg you to get back together Stop dreaming This will only make you look lower. You said you have the money to hire actors It's better to check your brain, hahaha Hahahaha You're just a piece of shit. Even if you put on the dragon robe, he can't become the crown prince. Hahaha Why But I said You can find this actor. Are you interested in being my girlfriend? As I am now No one in the entire Jiang Province dares to provoke Hey, let me tell you There is a bag shop here Hey, this is my future brother-in-law after all But that Well, not so good Sorry for hitting someone Master, I see you are disturbed. I'm upset to see you guys kicked out Yes I want to see today. Who will chase whom? Where is the store manager? What's going on? Humph, they are two poor guys Dare to hit my son Get him out right now. Don't listen to my orders Do you know who I am? Do you believe it? My words have made it difficult for you as a store manager to do your job well. What is your identity? Let me hear it for you What identity I'll scare you to death if I tell you My daughter is a righteous man who went to Beijing The master has taken a fancy to you He is now the young lady of Ye family, haha Madam Ye You two should apologize immediately for what you did. Then get out of here. We don't welcome poor people like you here. Did you hear that? Ah, apologize and get out of here A young lady has made you so crazy. You know shit You don't even have the qualifications to look up to this person. As a store manager You don't ask why Only Qu Yuan can regain his power No reason needed Just because he is the young lady Even if it's not your fault You have to kneel down and apologize Hahahaha, did Ye Fan see it? This is identity Powerful position Xu Minghao will disappear within three minutes I'm going to replace you. You are not qualified to order our mall general manager around. Oh, I almost forgot to tell your general manager. We are receiving VIPs I don't have time for you stinky fish and shrimp While I still have patience You guys stop acting. Get out of here now! Otherwise I'll have your limbs broken Then throw it out I see who dares I see who dares manager How come you are here? If I don't come again Should I let you do whatever you want? Cause a big disaster Sorry, manager. I'll deal with them now. Someone, get them out of here right now. Manager, why did you hit me? Damn thing Ms. Jiang Xu Minghao, you are quite courageous Even your employees Dare to drive me and the young master out Don't dare I will give you two a satisfactory explanation on this matter. Why don't you come over to him? We apologize that we are not managers. You got the wrong person. He is a wage earner The government is here Why should I apologize to him? Something with a dull eye Give you a chance, you don't want From today You are fired Manager, please I am suffering among the people Madam, am I wrong? I don't have any vision. How you do it Manager, my sister is here. They are the ones who should be gone. Manager Xu Your shopping mall is an industry of Tianhao Group. As the wife of the newly appointed president of Tianhao Group, I've been treated unfairly here. Please ask Manager Xu Is this how you do things? Young Madam Ye, you are worthy Whether you accept or not After tonight's celebrity banquet The whole Jiangzhou will know Me and Ye's Young Master The most magnificent wedding will be held Really? I'm looking forward to your appearance tonight. But at this moment You will still be kicked out Xu Minghao Someone, drag them out. Wait, my daughter is the young lady of the night market. Dare to touch my hair I will make your mall closed. snort What are you still standing there for? Drag it out Let go Miss Jiang and Master Jiang have brought you two unhappiness. I apologize Come and customize some clothes for the young master Remember to be the best This dog thing I will fire him tomorrow. Mom, what is that woman's identity? Can actually order the mall manager around Could he be some big shot? Bullshit identity Look at her, she looks like a bitch At first glance, it's a mistress Why Look at this Hahahaha let me say it. So to speak Is Ye Fan really the gigolo kept by that mistress? Oh, just a stinky dick. That's all It's not like my daughter is favored by Master Ye. Successful, hahahaha But sister, this tone We must get him Ye Fan is just a pretty boy Why ride on us? Wild on the head After tonight's death banquet is over I am the real young lady of the Ye family They will only kneel down and beg for mercy But listen to what Xiao San said He will also attend the celebrity banquet tonight snort Make him kneel down and apologize in front of everyone. What a pity This Ye Fan is not qualified to participate Otherwise, I really want to see him kneel down and beg for mercy. What are you busy with now? Mom, this is my first time in a place like this It's really magnificent and luxurious Look at you, you're such a loser. The ones who come here are all big shots. By then What do you know more about? Why do I know them? My sister is now the young lady of the Ye family. They can't curry favor with me enough That's true. From today onwards Our Liu family is also part of the upper class. Ha ha ha ha Ye Fan How did you get in here, you piece of trash? He must be following us secretly. You want to take advantage of this opportunity tonight to extort some money? He dares I say you are such a loser that your ghost won't go away Where is my daughter going? Where do you see it? Ye Fan, there is no point in clinging to me like this. Tonight I will become the young lady of the Ye family. You can only look up to the existence Still here, young lady. It's good to come I'm here to settle the bill with you tonight. And then hum Then you'll be like a dog Under the gaze of all the celebrities Ye Fan crawled out in disgrace I know why you came here today. But you don't understand the difference between us All the celebrities present tonight Who dares to disrespect me? Only you want me to be unhappy You have to kneel down and kowtow to me and admit your mistake. Then he was kicked out of the party. I know you're not angry. But this is reality I'm always high above You are destined to live in the quagmire Never turn over Liu Qing I was really blind at the time I've actually liked you for three whole years. So what if three years is ten years? Can vegetables be eaten as meals? I obviously have better options Why should I suffer with you? You're not my match at all You are just my forced choice Don't bother my sister, it's your lady's life. You've got three years of luck. Too contented Liu Qing How come you become so snobbish now? Snob In this world, whoever has money will be happy But is it inappropriate to leave the dignified young lady of the Yan family? I want to accompany him to sleep outdoors. Don't make me laugh. I'd rather cry in a luxury car. I will never laugh while sitting on an electric bike. Humph, shameless I'm tired of it. You dare to hit my daughter? But you're really stupid. Look at yourself On family background, appearance and talent Which of you is worthy of being the young lady of the Ye family? I am the younger brother of the Ye family in Shangjing Tonight It will be managed by Butler Jiang Personally announce the marriage between me and Master Ye You watch me tonight. How I'm the center of attention How to shine I will prove it to you My choice was not wrong I, Liu Jie, deserve such a bright future Yeah I'm really looking forward to the moment when the truth is announced. When the glory you are so proud of is smashed to pieces You look painfully repentant You should be the one who regrets painfully. Mrs. Shaw Mrs. Ye Fan Shao Originally planned For the sake of your past relationship Let you go How can you be so ungrateful? Brother, I should thank him. Of course, based on your identity You are not qualified to enter this celebrity banquet. Just an invitation letter can make you embarrassed Well, you could ask them. If I don't come today Do they dare to hold this famous banquet? Do they dare to open this Ming Liuyan? Ye Fan The people present tonight are all big names. You should be low-key Don't be afraid Even if all the people in the audience were added together Can't shake me Ye Fan, you are really ignorant and fearless Do you know who's here tonight? At least they are all CEOs worth tens of millions. There are even billionaires Do you still feel that nothing can shake you? Not qualified Young man, you are so arrogant. Su Yue, why don't you come here quickly? I'm not Lin Lin Could it be Lin Zhenshan, the president of Jiangzhou Baiyi Group? It's a great confidence The tone is full of good words Confidence comes from strength Hello, Miss Jiang Hello, Miss Jiang Yo Yo Yo Ye Fan, look at you pretending How could our family not know what your strength is? Yes, a wage earner. I can't even get enough money for the wedding. What a powerful person! Humph, he is just a clown seeking attention. Forget it, today's banquet is a big deal You give the celebrities and young ladies present Apologize for your ignorance I'll let you go Apologize I told you that you are not qualified. Enlarged dog guts You're a lifeless thing. Do you know what you are talking about? Okay, then you might as well tell everyone. What is the reason that makes you look down on the whole audience? I tell you Ye Fan tonight Except for the young master at Shangjing Night Market Who else can suppress the whole scene? I am the Young Master Ye you are talking about. Is it enough to suppress you? Shut up, celebrities are gathering tonight Just to welcome Master Ye Long Deng becomes the president of Tianhao Group You said you are Master Ye What do you want to do? Su Yue, why don't you come over here quickly? You can't hear what daddy said. Do you really want to kill our Su family? Su Yue What he did Everyone can see it clearly You want to save him At that time, your entire Su family was not good enough I advise you to think twice Yes, no one can save him tonight. Ye Fan Don't you just want to see me confess painfully? No, I just want to watch My glorious brokenness? What a pity It is you who is painfully repenting You are the one whose glory is shattered Let me tell you Just break both legs and throw them out Impersonating Master Ye How can I let it go so easily? Must be severely punished Worry with respect Yes, yes, yes? I'm standing here today See who dares to touch me It's you, Liu Qing Lin Zhenshan or you Li Weize Ye Fan Have you been acting for too long? You really think you are the young master of the Ye family. I tell you Miss Liu is the young lady of the Ye family Noble status Mr. Lin is from a top family Ten billion And my Li family Will be personally supported by Master Ye One step to success Anyone present here They can suppress you so much that you can't hold your head up for the rest of your life. Ye Fan, I didn't want to lower myself to argue with you. But you pretended to be Master Ye No respect for superiors or inferiors Outspoken Tonight You must pay the price for your arrogance Kneel down now Kneel down Kneel down Kneel down Kneel down Dare to make him kneel Do you know who he is? Master It's not you, huh? I know who he is He is Xu Minghao's mistress The mistress who supports Ye Fan Xiaosan Hey, tonight's celebrity dinner Even Xu Minghao is not qualified to come A bitch like you who is not worthy of being in a decent place Can you come? Before you speak First, understand the other party's identity This is for you It shouldn't be a difficult thing. identity Aren't you Xu Minghao's mistress? Is there any need for me to understand? The Li family has a descendant like you Destined to be difficult to thrive Hey, you said it wrong. My Li family not only wants to prosper And it's going to ascend to heaven. Ascension Yes, tonight's celebrity banquet Butler Jiang has promised my father Jiang Hui Introduce Master Ye to my Li family Young Master Ye will personally support our Li family My Li family rose to fame overnight Who can stop it? The Li family has such an honor I am afraid that in the future my Lin family We must also respect Mr. Lin's politeness Hey, do you still think that my Li family will not prosper? I can tell you clearly now I will not support the Li family And if you dare to speak rudely again I will trample your Li family into the dust Never turn over Ye Fan, you really think of yourself as the young master of the Ye family Is it okay? Then I'd like to see you A capability background A piece of trash with no status or knowledge How can you trample my Li family into the dust? Notify Butler Jiang Have his father come over within three minutes. Otherwise, the Li family will be destroyed. What's up Li Xue? Dad, Master Let Li Wenyan, the head of the Li family, come in person Okay, I'll give the order. You tell the master I'll be there in 10 minutes. Yu Wenye The young master asked you to come over immediately. I have created an opportunity for you. You decide Thank you I will do my best The master has already given the order. Thank you for your hard work, Miss Jiang Li Weize will wait for your father to come over. Let him take you to admit your mistake and apologize to me Your Li family still has a chance to survive Otherwise it will be reduced to ashes Hahahaha Ye Fan You really are good at pretending. I see you didn't even call Mr. Li for three minutes Believe it or not, I can crush you to death right now So that you will never turn over Come on, don't want Su Yue, what are you doing? Li Weize, please Can you let Ye Fan go? Su Yu is at this time You still want to plead for him? He is arrogant Arousing public anger It also broke the sky of Jiangzhou No one can save him. Miss Su, I advise you to make a decisive decision Do you want the Su family's crisis to happen again? Girl, what time have you arrived? You're still protecting that bastard. Do you really want to see our Su family destroyed? Ye Fan, did you see it? No one pleads for you. No one dares to plead for you. Today I will let you know what is real Desperate people Li Wenyan, President of Li Group, dad Why is Mr. Li here? Too late too late Doesn't that mean that how could Ye Fan have this ability? Dad, why are you here? Just received a call from Butler Jiang He said the young master wanted to meet me in person. Oh, is that so? I really thought he had some background that I didn't know about. What are you mumbling about? Oh, take me to see the young master. Dad, Master hasn't arrived yet. What's going on? I see Dad, tell me Although the young master was not present But I know the situation on the spot very well. I just tried my best to maintain Gaining the Master's Appreciation Only then you can get connected So that's how it is Hahaha Then we, father and son, must perform well. That is that Then go away Dad is him Impersonating a young master Disdain the whole audience He also threatened to kill the young people of my Li family. I have been in the business world for decades. What storms and waves have you never seen? But you dare to threaten my Li family like this You are the first Well, today I will give you this opportunity Start now Use all your strength I want to see how much you can endure. Ye Fan Don't you want my father to come? You want my father to take me to apologize to you? Do you admit your mistake? Now people are here What are your methods? You don't want this mistress to support you, do you? What mistress? Oh, that's him. Li Wenyan, you see clearly who I am You see who I am. I don't care who you are. Let you be a bitch in this place It's an insult to celebrities like me. Shut up, Dad What are you doing? Mr. Li, you are a little too cautious. We have already investigated him. She is just a mistress of Xu Minghao Yes, he is a mistress who is not in the limelight. Yes, Dad. Xu Minghao in front of you That's all I can do. How about his mistress? Maybe it's worth a second look? Entrance Hey Miss Jiang Miss Jiang's son is short-sighted We couldn't recognize you Please forgive me for any offense. You are not allowed to report me for apologizing for beating me for a mistress No reporting allowed Sorry, Miss Jiang. Could it be Jiang Lixue, the daughter of housekeeper Jiang? Jiang Butler He is one of the core figures in power in Shangjing Night Market. No wonder this guy dares to be so arrogant Surprisingly blessed by the daughter of housekeeper Jiang Now there's going to be some fun Miss Jiang, please take a look This matter Li Wenyan, your son keeps failing to make progress The Li family's banquet qualification tonight is cancelled All cooperation between the Li family and Tianhao Group is terminated Hey Miss Jiang I have just punished my son in public for his offense. And he has already apologized to you. You still punish me like this It's a bit too much. Why are you dissatisfied? Miss Jiang may not know Tonight, our Li family received instructions from Butler Jiang Moreover, the young master of Quanzi pointed out that he should be frugal. If you cancel my qualification for the Li family banquet now Aren't you afraid of being blamed by Butler Jiang? Aren't you afraid of the interview? You have to understand The Ye family can only have the surname Ye Not to mention that the surname is not Jiang Although everyone at the scene did not know that Miss Jiang openly protected And you want us to accept it as your own selfish desire Ignoring identity This punishment My Li family is dissatisfied Are you guys convinced? Complaints Complaints Complaints Complaints Miss Jiang, I know. You want this guy to be recognized by the upper class But he shouldn't be allowed to pretend to be the young master. You shouldn't use your identity to cover up for me. This is disrespectful to the master. It is even more disrespectful to the Ye family. You can't bear this sin. Stupid He is Master Ye New President of Tianhao Group He is Master Ye How is it possible? Miss Jiang, I really didn't expect It's already this time You're still shielding him. Do you really think your power can silence the gossips? If you can't produce irrefutable evidence tonight Prove his identity Then I have to think that you have a rebellious heart towards the Ye family You, housekeeper Jiang, have worked diligently all your life. I actually have a daughter like you who ruins the family tradition. Miss Jiang She is just a waste who was rejected by someone. Nothing It's not worth your attention. Waste Nothing You are really blind. snort Kid You can make Miss Jiang so devoted to you You should feel honored But that's it for tonight. Because Jiang Lixue couldn't control the situation Yes, if you were not the daughter of housekeeper Jiang Just based on what you did tonight Lay a place where there is no place for you Hey let them talk Miss Jiang's celebrity banquet is about to begin There's not much time left for you. If you turn back now There's still time Otherwise, wait until your father arrives. This kid's fate is even worse. good I'm waiting good Then I will be doomed with him forever The general arrives Why Mr. Jiang, you came just in time. What happened Celebrity Banquet Tonight Someone is bold Disrupting the venue Someone is making trouble Wei Ze, why don't you tell Butler Jiang about this? How did that low-class untouchable sneak into the venue? How can you act recklessly? Disrespectful It's Butler Jiang please Butler Jiang He is a loser who was divorced by a young woman. Because of dissatisfaction Infiltrated the venue Arrogant and domineering And he actually dared to pretend to be the young master of the Ye family Trying to suppress the whole scene So what about the younger generation? He called on all the celebrities present I just want him to apologize. Just admit a mistake But who would have thought He actually used sweet words to deceive Miss Jiang Let Miss Jiang stand for him And he even threatened to destroy my Li family Butler Jiang is a mean-spirited guy. You must not stay Yes, unforgivable sin Punish according to crime Please ask Butler Jiang to enforce the law impartially You guys did a great job Su Yue, why don't you come here quickly? Jiang Butler Today's Mistake The fault is mine, Su Yue Miss Su Yuesu, please get out of the way Jiang Butler Please don't blame Ye Fan. Don't implicate the Su family I, Su Yue, am willing to take responsibility for today's mistakes alone. Su Yue How could my Su family produce such a rebellious girl? My Su family is really going to be finished. Hey, it's fun to pretend Completed crematorium Ye Fan, you are finished. You deserve it if you still want to blackmail us Ye Fan, this is what happens when you provoke the powerful. Old slave Jiang Wenlie pays homage to the young master Mr. Jiang Get up quickly, Master Xie Master What is going on? Master's Today My fault I will give you an explanation. Anyone who was disrespectful to the young master just now, please stand up yourself Jiang Wenya, what's going on? He is just a waste who was dumped How could it be Young Master Ye? Are you questioning me? I dare not Li Wenye I wanted to send your Li family straight to the clouds You gave birth to a good son. Destroy your Li family with your own hands and ask me to go Dog thing It's all because of you The young master is clearly in front of me But your dog's eyes are blinded It brought ruin to my Li family. Dad, I don't know I really don't know Dad, don't call me dad. There is no such a rebellious son as you. Master Quanzi Blind dog eyes Offended you From tonight on, you will be kicked out of the Li family Life or death is absolutely better than the master's orders Please forgive me, Master. Please let my Li family go. Let go you Didn't you threaten me before to see how capable I am? Now you see I said before As long as you bring him to apologize to me I will let your Li family live. Now it's the other way around Shao Ran I, Li Jia Xing, have won half my life Countless people have put in a lot of effort Please let my Li family go. Why don't you come back here soon, son of a bitch? Young Master, I am Lin Wenyan I am willing to wait for your punishment together with the paper I just ask you to let the Li family go. He had previously joined forces with everyone to ask me to kneel down in public. Then you helped the evildoers To cut off my life I ask you if it's you what will you do I, this is your choice From tonight Lee family expulsion I'm done, Dad. Finished Li Weize Didn't you want to see me before? How to trample your Li family into the dust Is there no way back? I am as you wish You, you, what are you going to do? I'll ask you again On family background and appearance Which of your talents is worthy of becoming the young lady of the Ye family? No This is impossible He is someone I despise. A piece of trash that no one wants. How could he be the noble young master of the Ye family? Oh I see Butler Jiang must be worried about Miss Jiang. That's why I deliberately covered up for him. He is not the young master of Ye family at all. He's the good-for-nothing piece of shit. ah nonsense It's time to fight If it weren't for the fact that the young master has been supporting your Liu family for so many years You also deserve today's scenery And said the young master is a waste Say he can't give you a future and happiness Who do you think you are? Ye Fan, you are Master Ye's business Why didn't you tell me earlier? Does this have anything to do with you? How come it doesn't matter? If you had told me earlier We were married a long time ago. marry But it's not too late now It's okay, Ye Fan Let's get married now. You don't deserve it Ye Fan, you are a heartless man I've been with you for three years You have money now You want to dump me now that you're rich, right? I do not agree Who said he wanted to live high and mighty? Who said to cry in a luxury car? Who said I'm not a good match? Just a forced choice Ye Fan, I was wrong Let's start over, shall we? Liu Xing You never accompanied me through the trough Why should I enjoy my peak glory? Ye Fan I love you I really love you Is it me you love? You love money When I had no money, you refused to marry me Why should I marry you just because I have money? Liu Qing, if I hadn't You hold it up to the sky You are nothing To be born or not to be born Talent or not People like you I am also worthy of the dream of marrying into a wealthy family. How to deal with it, Master? Tell them to return everything they stole from me. If you still don't Police Department Deal with it by law Do you have anything else to say? Butler Jiang is It's our blindness I have offended the young master. We can apologize. Lin Zhenshan bumped into Master Please forgive me, Master. I won't go into details about today's events. But if you dare to have a next time I will not let you off easily. Uncle Su, I'm sorry to have made you laugh. You see, the matter between me and Su Yue was my fault. Master, we still have the key to discuss. Su Yue, I'll go. Okay, I'll go first. Master, I have something to tell you. You tell me The three major international oligarchs are jointly blocking the night vision business If they knew the identity of your heirs Will definitely do whatever it takes to deal with you So a welcoming banquet was organized in Beijing. A substitute will be present for you Confusing After the storm subsides We will hold a formal birth mother banquet for you Taking care of the whole country OK, I know. Thanks a lot Dad, please take a look. How dare this bastard play this trick? Mr. Li, what did you find? We've all been deceived The real heir of the Ye family is far away in Shangjing This Ye Fan is just a complete liar Mr. Li, do you have any evidence for what you said? All the wealthy families in Beijing attended What more evidence do you need? Ye Fan, my shame tonight I, Liuqin, must take revenge double But if Ye Fan is a substitute But how to explain all this? Does this need explanation? Uncle Su Butler Jiang asked Ye Fan to be the substitute for Master Ye Of course, we have to maintain the authority of Master Ye. otherwise Isn't the title of substitute self-defeating? You mean this Ye Fan is from the Ye family? The scapegoat Any large family It's normal to have business enemies. not to mention Or a global club like Shangjing Ye's But Ye Fan, this waste Can die for Master Ye It is also the greatest honor of his life. I just said it A waste How could he become the heir of the Ye family? Bastard Ye Fan How dare you lie to me Cheated my daughter Dad, we can't just let this go. He must pay the price. He must pay the price. Shaoye Group plans to build an entertainment complex in Jiangzhou A seven-star hotel integrating leisure and dining This is the candidate information for the project leader. Please take a look Just him Master Xu Minghao has good vision How to say Master, you don't know Although Xu Minghao is only the general manager of offline stores But I have investigated before He has excellent personal abilities He is in charge of this project There won't be any problems Okay, let's arrange it. One more thing I noticed that you always traveled by bus before. So I ordered a top-of-the-line sports car for you. Your fingerprint has been entered You just need to go to the car dealership to pick up the car. Many thanks This is the Obsidian Moire Night Vision Exclusive bank card for heirs You receive Sister Lin, someone came to see the car Aren't we going to have a reception? Look at him. A poor look Waste of time But you have to go by yourself Don't blame me for not reminding you Receiving this kind of person Be careful, you won't get a penny. Sir, are you here to see the car? No, I'm here to mention it. No problem You can choose several of your favorite models Let me introduce you Aren't you afraid of wasting my time? What's the waste of this? You later Must be able to afford a car It's just now Just take a look at the models you like in advance At your service Should Don't waste your time, Xiaoyu. People like him Ah, our car dealership's car He can't afford it in his lifetime. Is it expensive? Of course We are a car dealership under Tianhao Group. Minimum price: 300,000 How much is the most expensive one? Still the most expensive Are you qualified to ask about this level of car? gentlemen Where are the cars in our car dealership? The highest price is 30 million This is the supercar in the store But it's already been booked. I was wondering why I smelled a foul odor as soon as I came in. It turned out to be a sour smell Chen Shao Ni Zen Yao Lai Liao Of course I'm here to buy a car. Ye Fan, why are you here? Why can't I be here? So you are Ye Fan The waste that was kicked out by Qinqin Chen Shao Ren Jia Xian Zai Ke Shi Ni Nu Peng You This is just a loser. Not worthy of me at all Well, I bought a car. Take you to dig wilder Hate Ye Fan What are you still standing here for? Do you still want to buy a car? What does he buy? He just looks I said poor If you can't afford a car Get out of here now Don't delay my reception of the distinguished guests. Sister Lin Our car dealership doesn't have a rule that prohibits people from looking at cars. Doesn't Xiaoyu have eyes? Mei Kan Dao Chen Shao Lai Liao Ma Zhe Chong La Ji Zhi Hui Ying Xiang Chen Shao De Xin Qing Who says I can't afford it? You can buy any car here for 300,000 yuan or more. You think you are with the eldest son of the Shen family? Such a rich young master? You're just a substitute. What to buy Maybe he was talking about electric cars Ye Fan, didn't you say that you didn't support me? Am I nothing? But in fact I live in a villa and drive a luxury car Huan Zhao Dao Liao Chen Gong Zi Such a wealthy man Leaving you is the right choice And you can only look up to me forever Just by him That's right, it's up to me Because I can give You can't afford it in your life Is that so certain? How do you sound like this? I was not satisfied with the salesperson's decision to help me with the formalities for this car. Wo Yao Chen Shao This car is 1.2 million Don't talk nonsense, pay the full amount by card Hao De Chen Shao I'll go do it now Did you see it? I can easily buy a luxury car worth 1.2 million And you can only be helpless, angry and poor I want this car for 1.2 million Ye Fan, you are mentally ill, right? Don't say you can't afford it Even if you can afford it I'm a gold member. This car has to be mine. What if I offer double the price? 2.4 million Who doesn't know how to brag? I also said I wanted that supercar worth 30 million If you steal my car, you will get double the money. Do you have money? You don't need to worry about whether you have money or not. Can I take the car at double the price? It is possible according to our regulations. But this car is only worth 1.2 million It's not worth spending 2.4 million. It doesn't matter, I spend money just to be happy I just want to take away what he likes. Why are you dissatisfied? You can raise the price. I'm not as stupid as you. In the end, I just don't have money. I'm too scared to dare Weren't you very arrogant just now? Why is there only impotent rage left now? Ye Fan is good at talking. But I have no money in my pocket I want to see how you come up with this 2.4 million Open your dog eyes Watch carefully for me Credit Card Chen Shao Ji Ran Ta Qiu Zhao Da Lian Then let him be By then, this card When you can't get a penny Look at him being so stubborn. Xie Fan, wait a minute, this card can't be swiped out I'll break your dog legs. What if it comes out? Hahaha Absolutely not Ye Fan If you could take this car from me today I'm your last name. Credit Card Successful transaction Card swipe successfully Success is impossible Ye Fan, where did you get so much money? Does it have anything to do with you? Liu Qing, do you still think you can get close to him? Can you look down on me? As for your surname You are not yet qualified What are you crazy about? Who knows where your money comes from? Maybe it's a loan. Dui Chen Shao Shuo De Dui Ye Fan knows that he is the substitute of Master Ye. Not long to live That's why I took out a loan on purpose to show off. Ye Fan, in order to prove yourself in front of me You really are unscrupulous. What a pity. What can this little money prove? You are still It's the one who has no ability. Useless waste Your vehicle documents have been processed. Thank you for giving you this car. Send me That's right Hey Mr. Ye Give me this car. I can be your exclusive receptionist I can do whatever you want. I can serve you 24 hours a day I hate people who use their bodies to make money. Stay away. Mr. Ye Your car is worth more than 2 million This is too expensive. I can't have I didn't come here to buy a car. Why I bought this car On the one hand, it is to slap some people in the face on the other hand By your reasons Your reception made me feel very comfortable I hope you can keep this attitude. Don't learn from some people who look down on others I will If you give me this car So what do you do? I have a car. My car is there. Ye Fan You don't want to say that this is the supercar you want, do you? Exactly Ye Fan, are you out of your mind? This is Ferrari This is the store's flagship supercar. Value: 30 million Even if you sell your whole family it still won't be enough Ye Fan, you Han Ye Na You are deliberate Not just to make me change my mind Be with you again? I tell you Stop dreaming. I don't even look at this kind of garbage. Ren Jia Chen Shao A That's the general manager of Black Gold Bank. Annual salary of 10 million He is my perfect match. Dan Jiu Suan Shi Chen Shao He doesn't dare to say that he can afford this supercar What do you buy? Just because he can't afford it doesn't mean I can't afford it You buy it and I'll tell you You don't even have the qualifications to buy this car. Did you hear that? Ye Fan doesn't even have the qualifications to buy Don't you know why? Because this is a global limited Buyers must own at least two Ferrari limited editions Or 5 regular Ferraris And there is no transfer record To prove my love for this brand and The buyer must have a net worth of more than 50 million To ensure sufficient financial resources Buying and maintaining this car And you are just a poor loser with a monthly salary of a few thousand yuan Even an entry-level Ferrari It's a lifetime luxury for you. Do you still want to buy this global limited edition Ye Fan lost money Bet on this breath What a lie. Arrogance Have to say You are acting more and more like me But what can I do? It's not worth my looking at you. Stop being so sentimental here. Makes you feel disgusting good If you can afford this supercar today I'll kneel down for you right now Admit that I was wrong about Liuqin But can you good Then open your dog eyes Watch carefully for me Thanks Mr. Don't Know What to Do No one except the owner has the right to own this car You can't Soon you will lose face. Being kicked out Mr. Ye Be careful What's wrong This custom supercar has no more than 10 in the world And it uses the most advanced fingerprint unlocking This car now has its own fingerprint If the first unlock fails It will be completely blocked Are you worried that I will fail to unlock? What's there to worry about? Because you can't possibly solve it. Xiaoyu, this is your guest. If something goes wrong with this car The store manager blamed That's your responsibility. I'm not worried about the manager's punishment I am worried that the owner of this car is either rich or noble. You will be in trouble It doesn't matter. This car was originally mine. Mr. Ye The person who ordered this car yesterday was a woman Not You I heard How come Ye Fan is a woman? You're not going to say that the person who ordered the car was your mother, I'd like to see When can you install it? Did I wear it? You'll know soon. You should remember what you just said. He really thinks of himself as the real master. I still say that Even an entry-level Ferrari These are luxuries that you can never afford in your lifetime. And this car of yours is even more wishful thinking What if this car was mine? If this car is yours Then I will be like Qinqin Kneel down for you And call you grandpa three times But if not You have to kneel down for me Lick my shoes clean And crawl out from under my crotch good Then I'll let you know if I'm qualified. Fingerprint unlocking successful How is it possible? This supercar represents identity and status How can a poor guy like you unlock it? Is he really the young master of the Ye family? The unlock was successful. Mr. Ye, this car is really yours. All right I also picked up this car. I unlocked it too. Now it's your turn to fulfill your bet. What bet? This car is not yours. How can you afford 5 Ferraris? You must just be the woman who ordered the car. Just pick up the car You want to default on your debt, right? If you default on your debt, the car is not yours. Why should I fulfill Unless you can prove I can prove Mr. Xu, why are you here? If I don't come again How can I know that you are just a small sales consultant? There will be such majesty Fired Mr. Xu, I really need this job Mr. Xu, Mr. Xu Go ahead you did a good job From now on, the car dealership will be yours. Thank you Mr. Xu Chen Shao Gang Cai De Du Yue Xiang Lai Zhang Xu Minghao, we are all people of status Don't go too far. You offended the top VIP This matter can't be settled like this. Mr. Xu is just a low-level worker. Also worthy of being called a top VIP he He is just a useless person who runs errands for others. It's worth maintaining. You do this Didn't we Gold members who spend millions every year on cars Keep it in mind oh Gold member is right Since you are protecting him so much Then please Cancel my gold membership card as well. Chen Shao Don't worry, he won't dare to say anything. I am also Mr. Lin's man If this is the real owner of the car We really don't dare to offend But what is Ye Fan? That's what I meant Ren Yunxuan from today You were blacklisted by Tianhao Car Dealership Never accept orders What did you say Xu Minghao, wait for me. Chen Shao Liu Xiao Jie Have you two forgotten the bet we made? If you don't fulfill I don't mind having someone enforce it. Xu Minghao, you are going too far Is that enough? return Okay, let them go. Looking upset yes This Xu Minghao How could I help Ye Fan? I also cancelled my gold membership I guess Xu Minghao definitely doesn't know this Ye Fan is Ye Shao's substitute That's why I risked my life to help him If I had known this, I should have exposed him right then and there. But when Xu Minghao knew Ye Fan is Master Ye's substitute I will definitely return the card to you. That's natural But I must vent this anger. How come you are here? To be honest, Master I am responsible for the offline business of Tianhao Group But the main purpose of my visit this time First, to thank Master Leave the Seven Star Hotel business to me Second, I want to ask whether the new project will give overnight leave. Of course I have to give good I'll do it now. Hey Su Yue What? I'll be right over. Yu'er, what's going on? Why are you looking for me so anxiously today? Alma mater calls on outstanding alumni Hold school celebration I have an old classmate Zhao Pengfei He will also attend I just want you to go to Zhao Group with me Zhao Group It is the chief cooperation workshop of Tianhao Group's Seven Star Hotel I hope he can help me connect. Let Su Shi win the cooperation with Tianhao Group Yuer, in fact, I just want to win this cooperation My parents won't have any problem with you anymore. Come on, they're waiting. The river was like a tiger back then. Hahaha Wang Jiang, you are finally here. Let Fei Ge wait for you You are so brave. I'm sorry, Brother Fei Traffic jam on the road Just parked the car hahaha Okay, it's pretty good. The big Benz is on the road Ouch, where is it? It's just a Mercedes Benz About one hundred and eighty Brother Fei, this Ferrari can't be yours, right? Master, can't you see this? Brother Fei is indeed awesome Feige is awesome I heard this Ferrari is very expensive. Smashed it About 30 million Wow Phineas 30 million That's great. I can never make that much money in my lifetime. Brother Fei, can I take a photo with him? Hehe, it's not such a coincidence that I meet the car owner. There shouldn't be anything wrong with taking a photo. Just drink it Don't scratch me. Brother Fei, do you still not believe in my character? Oh, pat, pat, pat I won't go, but I will go. Hey, Brother Fei, go back. Su Yue Why did you come just now? Let Fei Ge wait for you How are you? I'm sorry. I'm waiting for someone very important. Yueyue haven't seen you for a long time haven't seen you for a long time Pengfei, let me introduce someone to you. Hey, this is an ordinary person. Not interested Now that everyone is here Then let's go The venue of this school celebration Longteng Villa Longteng Villa I heard this is the only six-star hotel in Zhangzhou What is a six-star hotel? Tianhao Group is about to build a seven-star hotel Do you know? The Zhao family is the chief partner of the seven-star hotel project oh Okay, okay. Let's brag for a while and then go Hey Fei Can I ride in your supercar? you you you No eyesight, right? The passenger seat can only be occupied by Miss Su Yue You don't have good eyesight when you go in, right? Can so many people sit down? Su Yue, I'll take you for a ride Thank you for your kindness. You just said this car is yours What's wrong? Is there a problem? There is a problem. This car is mine. Hahaha What did you say This car is yours. Su Yue Your boyfriend is too shameless. How dare you say Fei Ge's car is his? Some people don't even look at themselves. What? This is a $30 million Ferrari. Can you afford it? What's your name? Why I understand you want to be in the spotlight in front of everyone But you got me in trouble. You said this car is yours Please unlock him for me. Although I am not the owner of this car But there is no way that trash like him can Peng Fei Ye Fan didn't mean that. Pay attention to the occasion This car is my car key. Wow, your lighter is very realistic. Where did you buy it? Hahaha Uninformed country bumpkin This is a custom supercar. Fingerprint unlocking I didn't even do my homework. You dare to come out and pretend a shame Okay, after all. The bottom of society If you haven't seen it, let me introduce it to you. This sports car is called a customized supercar Starting price: 30 million It uses the most advanced fingerprint unlocking Hey, let me explain to you what fingerprint unlocking is Fingerprint unlocking means it can be started without a key There is no rule that says fingerprint unlocking cannot use keys, right? Su Yue, you little boyfriend Is there something wrong with him? Why are you acting like an idiot? Ha ha ha ha It seems you all don't know yet What kind of person is this boyfriend? What is the origin snort He is a man who can't even afford money for marriage. Also Others' broken marriage is trash Hahaha You are a loser who can't even afford the money for a wedding. He also said that he spent 30 million to buy Florida It's ridiculous. No matter how much you say What's mine is mine If you insist that it's his Then you ask him to unlock it. Brother Fei is a thief with a heart of his own Unlock it for him to see I can't stand Fei Ge anymore. Unlock it for him immediately It's not locked. Open your eyes and take a good look. Damn, it's not my car, how can I unlock it? Why don't you dare My car, what am I afraid of? Then you solve it Just wait and see how I slap you in the face Ye Fan, I will remember you Phineas What's going on? Why can't the car door be opened? This car is not a new one that has just been picked up. Fingerprint location not found What to do? I just said it How could Fei Ge's car not start? Wait a minute, kid. Fei has unlocked the car. I don't know where to put your old face. You your lighter Return you Why It's so slow, the fingerprint hasn't been found yet. Stop talking nonsense here. Fei Ge immediately unlocked it successfully Yes, but it's not unlocked. Shut up Phineas What's going on? The car can't be unlocked Why? Could it be this this this Unlock your phone, right? My car My car has been unlocked many times by a stranger's fingerprint today. He locked it haha So that's how it is Scare me I almost thought this car wasn't Phineas You, you, what are you kidding? Who else but Brother Fei can afford this kind of supercar? Is it Fei Ge? Of course it's me Ye Fan, what are you talking about here? I gave you face, didn't I? Do you know what a supercar is? Do you know what Ferrari is? I have no idea This car is from Tianhao Car Dealership Global Limited Customized Fingerprint Supercar Value: 30 million Buyers must own two limited edition Ferraris or 5 regular models Can buy Now you still think I don't understand? You sell So familiar with it I want to see how long you can perform this play Then you watch it. Whose car is this? The car started Could it be that this car is I'm afraid you don't know Let me introduce you This fingerprint unlocking can also be opened with a key Ye Fan, this car is really yours Of course it's mine Yuer walks Take you for a ride What are you doing? Take a look Chicken Feathers This is the loser you mentioned who can't even get married Brother Fei, I don't know this guy's car. What did you say? nothing Phineas Could it be that this guy knows that you have feelings for Su Yue? Deliberately doing this Want to suppress you? How do you explain this car? That is indeed a 30 million supercar. Yes Ordinary people are not qualified to buy this car. No, no, no, no We must have seen it wrong. That's not a limited edition supercar. It's a sports car with a similar shape. Otherwise How could this guy not unlock it with fingerprint? Take the key? you mean He rented a sports car of similar shape. Come here to show off That's right. I just said it How can this guy be so rich? How dare Fei Ge tease us like this? Must get him Play tricks and leave Longteng Villa Did you know This school anniversary can be held at Longteng Villa It's all because of Mu Qinglin You mean the one that's popular all over the world? International superstars who swept the top awards for film, television and music participation Mu Qinglin Yes, that's him. And he will be attending tonight What Mu Qingli himself returned to China I will also attend today's school celebration It's Mu Qingli Isn't that Our monument star is having dinner tonight. You are so naive. What is Mu Qingli's identity? How can we eat with them? Wang Jiang said it well. Phineas Not even you? Mu Qinglin is a distinguished person. Can eat at the same table with him It must be the crown of Guizhou or a frontier official Can he come to our school celebration today? It's our great honor. It is almost a luxury to want to eat at the same table with him I want an autograph and a photo. It's not impossible. Phineas What opportunities If we can enter God's seat Then Mu Qingni will die at the same table with us. Acupuncture will also be given to the guests. What is the heavenly table? School celebration tonight The seats are arranged into four seats: Tiandi Fengyun Different people sit at different tables Why do we have to eat at separate tables? Of course we have to divide it Although we are alumni But with social experience And the differences in life experiences We naturally drifted away. What about some people? Of course, he is not worthy of sitting at the same table with us. You are right, right? Ye Fan This meal is divided into different levels It's high and low, right? You you you you know what People of his status and position naturally don't understand Upper class The three levels are clearly divided A lowly person like you Of course, I don't understand the meaning of separate tables. Do you think that the separate tables only represent the location? I tell you Separate tables represent power and status, do you understand? Thank you for your visit Brother Fei, leave this rubbish alone Tell us now. How can I still sit at this table? Yeah, Feige. I also want to meet you in person, Mu Qing Haha, the one sitting at the back table is Yunzhu Those with a net worth of more than one million yuan can be seated The table next to him is the Fengzhu Worth more than 10 million The two tables next to it are the emperor's Those with a net worth of over 100 million can do As for the first two Only those with a net worth of more than 10 billion can be God. What is worth 10 billion? 10 billion, that means all of us here There's no chance. So don't be delusional, Mu Cleaning is also our sword. Hey, but Brother Fei There are only four levels in this venue tonight So which table should this person who is worth less than a million sit at? Hahahaha then of course you can't even get through the door Just sitting outside the door You are right, right? Yifan is absolutely right about you. Okay, the school celebration is about to begin. Let's practice poses. Mr. Zhao, you are qualified as a landlord Please take a seat hahaha The landlord is worth over 100 million. I am a landlord Miss Su, you meet the sixth status. Please take a seat. Hey wait Su Yue, he can't sit here Why not? Already experienced That's your asset. Not his Ye Fan and I are joint property You are married good My money is his money I still say that He can't and doesn't deserve this. Pengfei What do you mean? Su Yue, you don't have to fight anymore. He doesn't deserve it. To put it bluntly Four tables of Tiandi Fengyun There is no one thing that Ye Fan is qualified to do. Not you guys. You didn't eat enough of my car's exhaust just now, right? Please translate for me Why am I not qualified to do this? Who doesn't know Ye Fan is present? You're just a stinky worker. Su Yue Do you really think You can climb into the upper class yourself. Can you come here today? It's all because of Su Yue's face. If you know what's going on Get out and squat at the door You don't deserve this place. Zhao Pengfei If you insist on being so aggressive Then I won't attend this school celebration again. Walk Tianhao Group's seven-star hotel project You don't want the Su family anymore. Su Yue, I understand You brought him here today just to tell me Stop thinking about you. But you are wrong It doesn't make any sense Because how can a piece of trash like him compare to me? So many years Don't you know what I'm thinking? Knowing how much I care about you and the entire Su family The meaning of words is very great Why are you hanging around such a useless person? Waste of time Feige is right. Su Yue, you have to think it through. Brother Fei is the chief partner of Tianhao Group How much does your Su family need this cooperation? You know very well As for you A loser who relies on women to sneak into the venue Have to say Mixed like you What a fucking shame. Hello, don't you understand? Get out! You're right, get out. Get out, Yueyue Did you see it? I'm not the only one who despises him. Everyone looks down on him. You guys arrange the seats by wealth, right? I'm afraid that after my assets are exposed You are not qualified to work with me. Say it again We don't deserve it. You don't deserve it Damn, some people really don't know their own limits. Who says it isn't? Anyone present They have more assets than you, a piece of trash. How dare you speak so arrogantly here? You said you have assets, right? Okay, show it to everyone. Thousands or tens of thousands? I guess he doesn't have a penny. His only asset Didn't I just use it to rent a sports car? Hahaha sorry I'm sorry to disappoint you. My assets are trillions. Your assets are trillions Who are you trying to scare with this broken card? The staff is here Do you dare to verify your qualifications? Why not? Come test him I'm gonna slap him in the face in public today. Ye Fan is fine, let him check Today I will let you know You are not qualified to be the heavenly table I will be the international superstar you have admired for so long Shut up for me personally You are also worthy of Miss Mu Qingni Ye Fan's Imagination I tell you If this word is tested today You sat up. I, Zhao Pengfei, kneel down and kowtow to you 18 times Call grandpa But if you can't verify this word today Kneel at the door for me. Why are you yelling for someone? You don't deserve the last name Ye I tell you Today I will take away what you think is most important Save all the bones from today's banquet for me. I'm going to fill your hard mouth Mr. Ye Please take a seat at the table What what How is that possible? Why is he qualified to be a Tianzhu? Could it be that he has some identity that we don't know about? impossible How can a loser like him be qualified to sit at the heavenly table? Mr. Zhao The rules for tonight were set by Miss Mu. Mr. Yi's identity is indeed qualified to sit at the Tian Table Fuck it You must have been in league with him. Go call your manager. I want to verify it myself manager Please come here quickly Ye Fan didn't expect you to bribe even the waiter. Manager Chen will be here soon. I waited until I saw your fox tail was so long Hey, some people He will do anything to show off. But garbage is garbage. Even if you wear the dragon robe, you can't become the prince What's going on? Manager Chen Look at your men Collusion with outsiders Trying to make this waste add to its clumsiness You are so brave. Don't you know that the rules were set by Miss Mu Qingli? Manager Mr. Xie It really fits your opinion You listen to what I say Is this human language? I'll verify it right away. If verified I will definitely kick this arrogant guy out of the venue Give everyone here an explanation and bring your card. This is What's wrong, Mr. Chen? Not swiped the card yet Why such an excited reaction? Is there something weird about this card? What's wrong, Mr. Chen? A broken card is so scary Shut up, this is the obsidian cloud pattern What is this obsidian cloud pattern? Obsidian Cloud Pattern What card is this They all looked shocked. You don't know That is the Night Vision Heir's exclusive bank card I heard that it can mobilize more than half of the funds of Night Vision Group What, how come you have black Why can't I have Yaoyun Pattern? Obsidian Cloud Pattern is an exclusive card for Night Vision Heir Why do you As you can see I am the Night Vision Heir Ye Fan, you dare to pretend to be the heir of the Ye family You are so brave. Hum Impersonation Ye Fan at the Tianhao Group Celebrity Banquet You are the substitute of Master Ye. It's already known to everyone Who in the whole high society doesn't know I will expose you on this occasion today. You'd better spread the news that you forged the obsidian cloud pattern. You have 10 lives, but that's not enough Try the live card in your hand Manager Chen said Can a forged obsidian cloud pattern really cause such a stir? I said, how can you be so bold tonight? Do you want to use the identity of Ye's young master? In this centenary celebration Trying to shock the crowd So that you can successfully take a seat at the table Let Miss Mu give you acupuncture It's just wishful thinking Manager Chen, is it true that nothing can be refreshed? Ye Fan, have you thought about how you're going to die? Shut up. Please take a seat, Mr. Ye, at the table. Miss Li is here I'm Mu Qingli Miss Mu, can you please take a photo together? Ms. Mu, can you sign your name? Thanks for your love But I have something to say first Only those who attend tonight are seated at the sky table No one else will be accepted Yo Feifei this Could this Ye Pan really be the young master of the Ye Group? Fart Master Jiangzhou only has a substitute But there is only one explanation Here it comes Coming, coming Ouch Ms. Mu, please stay. I said My presence tonight is only for Mr. Ye Yes, I know Miss Mu. But I still want to advise you Keep your eyes open He is just a substitute for Master Ye. Trash worse than a dog Let him attend the centenary celebration ceremony today. I have already shown him mercy. How can he sit at the table? Miss Demu, your exclusive favorite So you are questioning Question my rules No, I just doubt it. These people have ulterior motives. Collusion with the manager If this gets out, it might affect your reputation, Miss Mu. Ms. Mu Zhao Pengfei I admit that you are outstanding among this class of alumni. But compared with Mr. Ye You are no different from the technique of lifting the sword It is Mr. Ye's right to sit at the table. It's my pleasure too. Doesn't that mean Ye Fan is really the young master of the Ye family? If you dare to question I'll kick you out. I have this right Install and install Let's see how long you can act as a stand-in. Mr. Ye, Ms. Mu If nothing happens We'll withdraw first. Go ahead Ms. Mu I am your fan Can I get a photo and autograph from you? sure Mr. Ye Ms. Su Please take a seat and I will pour you some wine. Hold on I said Wait for me to reveal my identity You are not worthy to sit with me. I said I would sit at the table Let the international superstar pour wine for me Now you see Do you believe it now? Mr. Ye, I am lucky to meet you. This drink is for you. Hey Miss Su What should I do when I return home? How did you offend the eldest master of the Ye family? He can't be the young master of the Ye family But Manager Chen and Miss Mu Qing are fine. Manager Chen is just a small manager of Longteng Villa. Can't get such a high-level consumer Miss Mu has lived abroad for a long time The message is naturally blocked But everyone present now Everyone thinks he is the young master of the night market It's okay The activity of giving back to the alma mater will start soon. Brother Fei, you mean that identity can be faked? But strength cannot be faked He, the eldest son of the Ye family, donated tens of thousands of dollars What else is he pretending to be? oh And I have informed my dad. I believe he will bring Mr. Xu here soon. Everyone, be quiet. Tonight is a full Touching and joyful moments It is also a time to look back on the past and look forward to the future Well, everyone is successful now. The cultivation of my alma mater is indispensable So I urge everyone to give back to their alma mater. Building Alma Mater I don't know what you think. I support When drinking water, remember the well digger Cultivation for those without a alma mater Where did our today come from? No problem. That being the case I, Mu Qinglin, hereby promise Giving back to the top-ranked alumni of their alma mater I will make him a promise Anything is fine oh What is Mu Qinglin's promise? First, I want to take first place However, in order to avoid malicious competition Hurt the harmony This donation is in the form of a donation. The case is about wanting to get the first place in donations. Also guess how much money your opponent donated In this way Difficulty of getting first place At least three times more than the public donation. If it is a secret donation, How can we know how much money Ye Fan donated? Yeah, Feige. Then Ye Fan's identity as a substitute cannot be revealed? Nice thought, Miss Zhong. This though Donations are not limited to high or low But at least this donation result Let us all have an idea. This prevents some people from not donating a penny. But he said he donated the most I think it makes sense I think so too That classmate Zhao Any suggestions? I suggest This is according to the result of the donation. Make a ranking This way, it won't hurt the relationship. It can also be motivating, right? Well, let's take the bell as a signal. Long voice for oneself Donation completed Rankings will be announced next I feel so nervous suddenly I shouldn't be the last one. Otherwise it would be too embarrassing. Don't worry, isn't there a bottom? Yeah, that's true. No matter how bad I am It should be better than this useless stand-in. Liu Shan Sorry everyone Limited assets Only donated a few school buses Zhang Lan Haha sorry The comparison is poor Only donated 100,000 yuan Let everyone laugh Wang Jiang I'm sorry. Throwing out ideas Xiao Xiao donated 5 million Hey, I believe Fei Ge's is the highlight. Wang Lan Wu Yifan Xiao Zhan and Zheng Shuang Sun Siyu Tonight, Fei Ge is the protagonist So I only donated 5 million. Don't make fun of me later. Su Yue size At least 10 million. Donated a laboratory building to his alma mater I hope my alma mater will get better and better in the future Miss Su, I thank you on behalf of my alma mater Ms. Mu is so polite. Zhao Pengfei These 8 sounds are an experimental building The value is at least tens of millions. How much do you have to donate for these 9 shots? How much money did Feige donate? Brother Fei, stop keeping us in suspense. Tell the brothers now Oh, I know. What do you think of my donation amount? Can't wait Not much actually. A small goal. A billion flying pot You are the best among all the flying people. What's next? It's Ye Fan's ranking now Isn't Ye Fan the owner of the Ye Family Mansion? Why don't we donate hundreds of billions or something? Oh shit, billions This bell has been ringing for a long time Represents No one here can compare to us Fei Ge. Ye Fan sports car can be rented Identity can be hidden Cards can be forged But donation is a real competition of wealth What are you taking now? What I donated cannot be measured in money. Alas, it cannot be measured by money. What does it mean? Oh, in other words That's worthless. Hahaha, if you have to convert it into money I'm afraid I'll scare you guys. No, did you hear what he said? He said he was going to scare us to death So scary The bell has rung 9 If you say this before the 9th bell I can still believe But I have already heard 9 bells. Highest in the game Why are you so arrogant? What does 9 rings count for? Even if all of you add There's not as many as me alone. You are talking bullshit and you dare to speak nonsense here Good, good, Ye Fan I want to see what you have the confidence to be so arrogant Miss Mu, please tell me his ranking. Just a hum He actually rang twice More than me Isn't it just 500,000? It's almost the same value as my donation. I think there's a sound. This is equal to the value of my donation. There are actually 5 rings It surprises me. But that's all you need to do Kid To maintain this face The family is empty, right? Hahahaha oh my god 6 rang no Impossible This is impossible This is a solid 5 million Could it be that Su Yue secretly gave him money? 8 rings, 8 rings Another ring He is on par with the pigeon What he just said can't be true. Oh Su Yue You are really a good daughter of the Su family. Your family is having a hard time right now. You're still fighting for this piece of crap. Why are you using so much of your family's liquid funds at one time? No, dare you say no? We know exactly what this waste looks like. If no one secretly supports Don't say 8 rings Just one sound He didn't either Okay, okay. It's come to this I won't pursue you. But this is your limit. That's right, Su Yue only shot 8 You can't beat his nine rings. Nine rings, can it be Could it be that he also donated 100 million? Even if the infusion costs all the money in the house It is impossible to come up with 100 million Even if he is refreshing It's impossible to have such great power Uh, Ms. Mu, I suggest It's in vain. It's in vain. What's going on? Isn't it said that the maximum is 9 rings? Why is it ringing in vain again? Ms. Meng Is this a mistake? I'm not wrong Ms. Mu Didn't you say that the maximum donation is only 9 yuan? Why does he have Bai Xiao? Because Mr. Ye is worth it Worth it, according to Miss Mu Ye Fan arrived How much was donated? Ye Fan If I didn't know that you and Miss Mu didn't know each other Wo Shen Zhi Du Yao Hui Bu Xiang Xin I It's not that shocking. Mr. Ye, your donation was made by you personally. I'll announce it. Miss I believe that all alumni must have doubts about the dialogue. But then all the doubts in your mind will disappear. What Mr. Ye said just now is good. His donation is indeed immeasurable in terms of money. If we must use value to estimate At least tens of billions And there is no market for it So don't say it's a waste of time Even if I think about it He can afford it. Hundreds of billions he made What did Miss Mu donate? It is the longest-standing tradition in Daxia. It is also the only one in the world One of the oldest private libraries Shangjing Night Market donated a Ninghai Tianyi Pavilion Tianyi Pavilion is the one covering an area of 40 mu 300,000 volumes of books Is it the Ninghai Tianyi Pavilion with a single ancient book? Those rare ancient books Any copy is worth a fortune We are ridiculous compared to him. Now do you accept it? Ye Fan, you are a substitute Dare to exercise the rights of the Ye family's young master You want to die so much? I will complete you What happened? He started the whole son filial piety banquet Someone is pretending to be the young master Impersonating a young master Go over and take a look Now you are dead. I have just informed my dad He will come with Mr. Xu soon Mr. Xu It's from the Tianhao Group's seven-star project headquarters. Xu Minghao is great Ye Fan, you think no one can see through your tricks but My dad is hosting a dinner for Mr. Xu at this hotel right now. And Mr. Xu has seen Mr. Ye's people with his own eyes. Do you think you can hide now? Aren't you afraid that I am really the young master of the Ye family? Bah, just because of your lowly body You are also worthy of foolish dreams The real Young Master Ye is in Shangjing right now. Ye Fan, why don't you keep being stubborn? It's better to think about it carefully for a while How can you kneel down and apologize to me? Because Mr. Xu will be here soon. I can decide your life or death with just one sentence, right? Could it be that this matter Can we just reveal this? This is revealed When Ye Fan made me lose face Have you ever thought about the outcome? When Ye Fan was rampant Have you ever thought about the outcome? Now you let me get away with this That's ridiculous. That's your own fault. Pengfei I can apologize to you for this. But in the end Ye Fan, he is my husband If you insist on holding on I won't stand by and watch You have to help him Su Yue won't give you face You really think I can't do anything to you? As long as I put a little pressure Your Su family will obediently send you to my bed You are not qualified yet My father is the chief partner of Tianhao Group The Su family wants to cooperate You have to get past me first. I'm not qualified If that's not enough, then add Shangjing Night Market. Is it enough or not? What about Shangjing Night Market? Is it enough or not? Hahaha Ye Fan You are so brave Even the Shangjing Night Market is not enough What was the original message? If you admit your mistake immediately Maybe there's still a chance of survival. But now He doesn't think he's a substitute. The Lord Ye will protect him. Care Ye Fan, if this is your confidence Then I can only say You are too simple Because of a substitute Even if dead No one sees it. today I'm considering you as Yueyue's old classmate. You apologize to me I'll spare your life Otherwise, you will bear the consequences What did you say You ask Fei Ge to apologize to you Ye Fan, I think you are scared silly. Did You Know Fei Ge's father is highly regarded by Mr. Xu And Mr. Xu is highly regarded by Miss Zhang Lixue. As for you, you are just a throwaway Just a substitute If he wants to die, don't stop him from picking up bones. Don't fly so softly in front of me for a while Ye Fan and Mr. Xu will be here soon. Don't be afraid, Xu Minghao is here today. He can only kneel before me So brave dad You said someone is here pretending to be Master Ye He is the one who pretends to be the young master of the Ye family and is rampant here. Unscrupulous Not only create obsidian cloud pattern What else is there? Mr. Xu is going to Beijing He doesn't even care about Ye Simply outrageous Mr. Xu, do you think Wu dares to speak like this? Throughout the city No one can save him. Xu Minghao You dare to touch me Young Master Who gave you the courage? You dare to call Mr. Xu by his name? Ye Fan is dead. It's not you, Mr. Xu. Why are you hitting me? Mr. Xu, this is Quanzi. The one pretending to be the young master It's this ignorant thing. Hey Dad Blind your dog eyes It seems that Mr. Xu is really angry. Even Brother Fei and Mr. Zhao were beaten This kid can't survive. I thought he could create such a big storm. It turns out that it is just like this Ye Fan Why is Mr. Xu so angry? Could it be that Pengfei reported too late? Mr. Xu's whole family is not doing things well I failed to catch this lowly person pretending to be the young master in time. Clean it out It almost ruined the young master's reputation. I apologize to you on behalf of Quanzi Zhou Yunfeng You really don't even know you're going to die. Death is coming What does Mr. Xu mean? Mr. Xu is the substitute of Mr. Ye. A name without a teacher Powerless Why are you so cruel to him? After naming, I will meet the young master Master, it's impossible Absolutely impossible His seventeenth master is a young master Subordinates are not careful in employing people Please forgive me, Master Zhao Junfa Why don't you take your useless son with you? Come here and kowtow and apologize Young Master, my Zhao family has offended you. No, no, no, Mr. Xu must have made a mistake. Look at him. Shut up, Dad. Kneel down for me Apologize to the young master, Dad The one being bullied is your son. Mao Wenye is the young master who contradicts Xu Zuohan Corrupting the Ye Family Why should I apologize? How could I give birth to a bastard like you? I told you to apologize Don't make me say it three times He's a substitute. I don't agree Breech Do you want to destroy my Zhao family? Zhao Junfa of the Zhao Family pays homage to his enemies Master, please forgive me. I'm afraid I don't have the qualifications. Your good son was so impressive just now Not only did he threaten to kill me And also use power to hold I want my wife to sleep with him How can you say such a thing? Master, I know my son has committed a serious sin. But the Zhao family is innocent As for this ignorant dog From today on, poison the family Dead or alive It all depends on the young master's anger Dad, I'm your son. You can't be so sincere. This is your own fault. I can't save you either. From now on Let you know There is always someone better than you There is always someone better Brother Fan, Grandpa Fan I look down on people I don't know Taishan Please spare my life No mercy once sorry You are a wicked person who is used to bullying others. If I just apologize, I'll let you go. Let you do whatever you want That world is for those good people. This is so unfair. I was wrong As for you Brother Fan, haha The movements are quite skillful Fan Ge How many brothers do you want? I'll give you some brothers As long as you don't argue with me It's okay for me to call you grandpa. No need to Hey, brother This is just a misunderstanding, right? Ye Fan let's go Good classmates will be like this There's no need to continue. Mr. Ye Don't forget I still owe you a promise Any request is fine Why does Mr. Xu respect you so much? Because forget it The crisis has not yet been resolved I won't reveal my identity for now. Lest Su Yue be implicated Lian because I am very important to the Ye family Very important Think about it The more realistic I act, the more The more arrogant you are, the more people will believe you. Then the real Young Master Ye will be safer What you said seems to make sense. Do I act like this? picture Let's go Second Master How can the Su family be worthy of your personal efforts? The Su family is not worth it But my nephew, whom I have never met, is worth it. Why not just destroy the Su family? The Su family is nothing but ants to me. What I want to do It's just using this incident to divert attention. In this way I have enough time Second Master You are going to My Ye family has a huge business How can we leave it to such a panic-stricken scholar to live with us? Hey wait a minute What good I see What's wrong Spokesperson for Su Group's new products Sudden termination of contract Several backup artists also have no schedule. Temporary termination of contract I'm afraid someone could target No time to investigate now this The most urgent task is to find a new spokesperson Tomorrow is the new product launch conference If you can't find a spokesperson This will have an impact on the reputation of the Su Shi Group. But where can I find it in such a short time? Isn't this already available? Do you want to ask Miss Mu for help? Forget it, Miss Mu, although I owe you a promise But in that environment Let's not talk about whether it's a play or not. The endorsement involves two groups Besides, the threshold of Universal Pictures is very high. This kind of private relationship is not acceptable. How do you know if you don't try? Hello Ms. Mu, I have something to ask for. I want to meet you Mr. Ye It happened suddenly If there is any disturbance Please forgive me I have time When and where I'm in the lobby on the first floor of Universal Studios The first floor of the company, right? Okay, I'll go there now. Get out of the way Sister Yan Wait until you win the Golden Eagle Award for Best Actress this time I think you are the best choice for the position of Miss Universe He Mu Qingli hummed It's time to step down But it's just luck Luckily I came across a few good books Otherwise, it depends on him Mu Qingli is qualified to put pressure on me Of course Whether it is qualifications or personal conditions How can Mu Qingli compare to you? What a grand occasion I don't know which senior executive of Universal Pictures it was. Let's get out of the way. Don't block other people's way yes What to see Go away What are you looking at? Get out of here! court death What's going on? Uh, probably your big fan I don't know where to get your itinerary Chasing the company Wait for the annual inspection I'll handle it right away Auntie, are you okay? Young man Thank you What's wrong with you fans? Is there any sense of boundaries? How dare you beat someone up at Universal Pictures? Get out of here now. Don't blame me if you continue to mess around. First of all, I'm not a fan I'm here to talk about endorsements. Secondly This old man has difficulty walking. Too late to avoid You guys just pushed and shoved without asking any questions. Bite back afterwards Accountability to me This is your master's ability to control I understand, I'm not a fan. I'm here to touch porcelain Where is the camera? Make an offer My dog bit someone As the master, can't you say something? Do you know where this place is? This is the Universal Pictures building. And I am the undisputed queen of Universal Pictures Isn't the boss of Queen Universal Pictures a man? Everyone has to make room for me here. So my bodyguards do their job. And he is just a cleaner Can't even avoid me when I see you It's his fault You were fired Dui Bu Qi Chen Xiao Jie It's all my fault It's all my fault Please squat and go to college I haven't even saved enough for tuition. Old man, you don't have to do this. You go to work at my place Double the salary Good, what a queen of the world. As for you, you said you were here to discuss endorsements. You can go back Over You can't negotiate endorsements with artists under Universal Pictures Yo You have such great ability Xiao Zhou told him I understand, Sister Yan First of all, let's not talk about how you offended our sister Yan. Our company's first-line celebrity endorsement fees At least 100 million per year Super first-tier cities have at least 500 million The qualifications of the company itself must also be considered Brand Value And whether it is an exclusive endorsement, etc. Now you understand what you are. Do you still think you deserve to be an endorsement agent at Universal? Now I still think I am worthy of being an endorsement agent at Universal certainly You are so powerful What company Report it to me. Jiangzhou Su Shi Sister Yan, this is the information Su Shi is not the big man behind Li Weize Give the order The group that refused to endorse? I thought it was some billion-dollar conglomerate. It turned out to be a small company with a market value of 1 billion Xiao Zhou drove them out Do you understand? You are not qualified to cooperate with Universal Get out of here! Ms. Mo I'm so sorry to disappoint you. Today I want to not only negotiate a cooperation and We will also sign your most popular actress from Universal Pictures Spokesperson for Su Group You said you would sign a contract with Universal Pictures and become a popular actress good Do you know the most popular actress in Universal Pictures? The weight of these words Know Then you dare to say the arrogant words of the contract I know her I believe she is willing to help me. Do you think you are qualified to know me? Who are you You are the most popular lady Still a star? Just kidding, our sister Yan is a household name World-renowned You don't know Sister Yan doesn't know Queen of the Universe Unknown I thought the chairman of Universal Pictures was going to take over. You know shit Our sister Yan She is about to win the Best Actress Award at the Golden Eagle Film Awards By then We at Universal Pictures naturally respect Sister Yan. What does he know? The award ceremony hasn't started yet. How do you know you are a movie queen? Master Chen Yan Yu Jin Chao Bian Jiang Ping Wei Hui Zhong Many judges had affairs She once outvoted Miss Mu. This year, she is also determined to be shameless What do you mean No meaning I simply despise you I am a movie queen Universal Pictures' most popular actress Numerous awards Companies that asked me to represent them At least a multinational corporation with a value of tens of billions or hundreds of billions Endorsement plan for a small company like Su Shi Only fit in my office shredder You don't deserve me. The name is quite loud But where do these honors come from? You should have an idea. It would be shameless to show it off again. What did you say I said you could get to where you are today I guess I've done a lot of dirty things. How dare you slander the strict security guards? There was a lot of noise at the company entrance What a disgrace! Mr. Liu, what's going on? Mr. Liu Just now this guy slandered Yan Jing in the name of seeking endorsement We were about to kick him out. Mr. Liu said that I was not worthy of my position. To where we are today They used shameful means. You can eat whatever you want But don't talk nonsense This is my popular artist in Universal Pictures. Not everyone can smear I'm giving you a chance now Kneel down and say at your loudest voice that I was wrong Shout three times I can choose I didn't see this. How did he do it? I can't say So you don't want to accept my toast, so I have to drink the wine for punishment, right? So you don't want to accept my toast, so I have to drink the wine for punishment, right? I still say that I can't say what he did Mr. Liu, look at him. I have a piece of advice for you. Apologize for what you just did Otherwise I will let you know the consequences of offending me Yeah I'm all ears Aren't you looking for an endorsement? Do you believe it? Just one word from me I can make the whole No artist in the entertainment industry would accept your endorsement I didn't expect it. You have so much energy ignorance Universal Pictures is the world's top entertainment company. And Mr. Liu is the vice president of Universal Pictures. His words are like imperial decrees in the entertainment industry. Now you know what happens if you offend me. You understand, right? I don't care who you are. It's not too late to apologize to Yanyan now He doesn't deserve you You won't cry until you see the coffin. Yeah Then I will fulfill you Hello Give the order All entertainers in the entertainment industry They are not allowed to accept endorsements from Su Group Otherwise, you are being disrespectful to me and going against Global Realm. Do you regret it? It's a pity that it's too late for you to kneel down and beg me now Jiangzhou Su Shi Will be blacklisted by the entire entertainment industry No one dares to speak for you This is the price you pay for offending me Are you so sure? Then you might as well call and ask Who in the entire entertainment industry dares to challenge your endorsement? I dare I dare Mu Qingli Mr. Ye has been waiting for a long time. No problem, Mu Qingli Are you sure you want to help him? So what? Mu Qingli, don't forget who you are You dare not get the company's consent to treat the driver If it damages the company's reputation I want to see how you explain it Do you have the spare time? You'd better think about it carefully. Improve your business capabilities After all, the eyes of the world are sharp. There is no impenetrable wall There is nothing that cannot be hidden Mu Qingli, you Go! Go! Go Manager, what is your relationship with this person? Why do you want to accept his endorsement? Mr. Liu, this is my personal matter. If it's inconvenient for Ms. Mu We can follow the formal procedures Formal procedures Do you know what the conditions are for signing him? What conditions The company's assets are at least 100 billion And there is no negative information in the past three years One billion yuan for endorsement fee per year Just your small private company Follow the formal procedures Ni Pei Ma Chen Yan Zhe Shi Wo Zi Ji De Jue Ding Not related to the company Mr. Ye, why don't we go to the office to discuss in detail? good Mr. Liu Mu Qingli took the man surnamed Ye back to the office Will they both shut up? Mu Qingli, ah Mu Qingli I've been chasing you for so long. I didn't expect that she already had a wild man outside Since Mr. Liu can't get Why not destroy him? This is the endorsement contract, Mr. Ye You have reviewed Free endorsement Didn't I say I owed you a promise? This is even paid off. But how do you explain this to the company? Mr. Ye is worried about me. You don't have to worry about this After all, I am also a pillar of Universal Pictures. This right still exists. But Those two people were really hostile to you. I just act. Unwilling to attend those messy business occasions The company was very dissatisfied with me because of this. Suo Yi Cai Yao Peng Qi Chen Yan He was unwilling to be suppressed by me So I have been resentful for a long time. As for Liu Jinlong? He is the company's deputy general manager. Always pursuing me But this person always likes to mess around Not worthy of trust But in my eyes Mr. Ye is a person worthy of entrusting your life to. Thank you Ms. Mu for the compliment I don't know what Mr. Ye thinks. How am I Ms. Mu I'm a family man. What if I say I don't care about status? Hahahaha I'm kidding you Look how scared you are I helped Mr. Ye so much today. It's not too much to invite Mr. Ye to go shopping. certainly How about the photos Nice painting. Mu Qingli, ah Mu Qingli If you make a mistake, you will be punished. recently Internationally renowned artist Mu Qingli is accused of having a chaotic private life Keeping a young man Had affairs with many wealthy businessmen Right? I voted for him in a drama and then slept with him? Wow How can this Jupiter fan be so disgusting? None of these stars are good. No more fans How can he be worthy of us fans? What young lady? It's all bullshit Suggested to block This kind of bad artist does not deserve to appear in the public eye. I will not support any of his future works. Tell me what's going on This is not true This is what the entertainment reporters made up for traffic. Fabrication These photos and videos are thrown in your face You say this is nonsense Did You Know People outside are now saying that you are a big star Shameless Debauchery Manager Mu Do you understand your own identity? clear I see you don't understand I told you already You are a public figure She is also our world number one Always be mindful of your words and actions Look at what you've done. Take secret photos Total loss transaction I don't have a chairman. What I should consider most now is How to give the public an explanation Calm down OK Let's talk about it How should Mu Qinglin deal with this incident? I suggest banning I suggest banning How to ban Shouldn't artists with bad records be banned? I told you they made it up. Mu Qinglin even the person involved came forward You dare to quibble? Why did I sleep in someone else's bed? Why didn't I think of today? Mu Qingqing, this is the company What are you going to do? You dare to hit me Dare to talk nonsense again I dare to hit you Dear Directors I'm just saying a few words about him from the company's perspective He beats people. This shows that he has no intention of admitting his mistakes and repenting. Mu clean you up Are you worthy of the company's cultivation of you? Everyone Mu Qinglin's attitude of admitting his mistakes was extremely bad And he unilaterally refuted the rumor The impact of the elimination purpose cannot be achieved at all It may even affect the company's image. So in order to consider me for the company Agree to make the cut Block it directly Who agrees and who disagrees I agree with Mr. Liu's opinion. Block Block, block, block Just ban it Since everyone has no objection Then ban it Since this is the company's decision I see Stop, you have caused such a huge loss to the company. I don't think that just banning is enough. What else do you want? According to the rules and regulations Losses caused to the company by the artist The artist should be compensated ten times his or her worth. good Now you are worth 1 billion Need to pay 10 billion to the company What else did he endorse before? Violation of company regulations Street endorsement Mu Qingli, is there anything you dare not do? Then you need to compensate the company another 5 billion Total 15 billion Mu Qingli was desperate Universal Pictures was on the verge of bankruptcy when they signed me I have been in the company for three years Generate 100 billion in revenue for the company I only got five or six thousand. Now you want me to pay 15 billion Who made you a dissolute and lowly person? Shameless Manager Mu said How long will it take to earn back the 15 billion? How about I introduce two rich bosses to you? They are generous with their money. Okay, that's all for today's meeting. Manager Mu Go back and prepare well for tomorrow's press conference Remember to be mindful of your behavior From tomorrow I am the most popular actress in Universal Pictures Master, please ask me to check it out. I want to know the whole story. at the same time Ba Chen Yan He Liu Jin Long De Quan Bu Zi Liao Fa Gei Wo Especially those things that are not visible to the public. Yes, Lixue, go do it immediately. By the way, Master This afternoon Ms. Mu Qinglin will hold a fan press conference Arrange it I will attend yes Dear journalists, Thank you for your continued attention to Universal Pictures. Regarding the recent scandal involving our artist On behalf of the company, I sincerely apologize to everyone. Mu Qinglinde There are mistakes in the line The company has decided to permanently ban it Later We must strictly provide private moral education to artists Prevent such scandals from happening again Ms. Mu, are the rumors on the Internet true? Then please ask Ms. Mu What is the truth? Ms. Mu, you have come to this position today. Have you ever used your body to gain any improper benefits? I don't have Miss Mu, you said it's not true Who is that man you're shopping with? What is the relationship We're just friends Other inconvenient to disclose If only friends It is worth your high penalty Do you also want to represent the other party? Is this relationship really just ordinary friendship? Ms. Mu, since you said that the thing does not exist Why did the company choose to ban rather than refute the rumor? Ms. Mu, please answer directly Why are you avoiding Answer quickly Miss Guo quickly answered Miss Guo Hurry up and answer Miss Guo Hahaha Hey, why are you asking for justice for your friend? Ha ha ha ha Fair Even if I tell you everything What can you do to me? This is what I did Who let him in front of me? Pretend to be pure and innocent He deserves it. Now go out and apologize to Miss Mu And publicly clarify You are dreaming, right? I know you want to stand up for him. But do you have the ability? ah Ha ha ha ha You dare to hit me? I'll give you one last chance. Now go out and confess your sins to the public. Then apologize to Qingni Otherwise you can't afford the consequences Hahaha I'm scared, I know. That chick is now not only cut off from stardom And you will have to bear huge debts in your next life. You are angry You are suffering But I'm telling you He is like this now It's all thanks to you Ha ha ha ha You shouldn't do this. Why do you want revenge? Universal Pictures market value Years of strong background Your small company can't do anything. I will let the world know He can't turn over if he has something wrong You lost your last chance I will take matters into my own hands with Universal Pictures. Mr. Ye I know everything about you. I disappoint you. This matter is ultimately because of me. It's none of your business Even if it wasn't because of you They'll find something else to target me. I just didn't expect I lost so completely Such a deep disgrace Mr. Ye, considering my current reputation You should change the spokesperson of Su Group. I'm so sorry. I just promised you something I broke my promise. Miss Mu is such a frivolous person, it is hard to find in the world. Just suitable for me to represent Don't worry I will clean up this mess tonight. Sir, this is what you wanted. All information about Liu Jinrong and Shen Yan Chen Yan Cong Chu Dao Di Yi Nian Kai Shi She kicked out her boyfriend who supported her schooling. Selling oneself director Then he was supported by several wealthy businessmen and invested in packaging After that, everything went smoothly. Now he is still having affairs with many senior executives of the group Liu Jinlong is currently the Vice President of Universal Pictures Since he joined the company Using his power to taint several artists in the company During his tenure, he embezzled and misappropriated public funds amounting to 5 billion I have always admired Miss Mu. so Get started Universal Pictures has a market value of 100 billion I want to buy him for only 10 billion Attacking Universal Pictures Bring down his stock price Mr. Liu, I salute you Congratulations, from now on you are the world's number one sister All this is thanks to Mr. Liu's love Have you figured out how to repay me? Mr. Liu, please don't be anxious. You said before that Mu Qinglin's mistress came to see you To seek justice for him Just a pretty clown Why bother? He is a street rat. Everyone shouts and beats Who would believe what he said? Who will help But he I heard Su Group and Tianhao Group seem to have a cooperative relationship Will Ye Fan borrow the power of Tianhao Group? Just a partner If it doesn't fit, change it. And Tianhao Group can't do it for him To do something that is thankless Yes, after all, it has nothing to do with Tianhao Group. Hahaha What's more We have no business overlap with Tianhao Group. Even if Tianhao Group wants to help him That's also a mouse pulling a turtle No idea where to start Unless he acquires our Universal Pictures Unless he is the son of the chairman of Tianhao Group Let's take a step back. He is really the biological son of the chairman of Tianhao Group Tianhao Group can't do it for him. Buy us out by force Of course not. In terms of market value, Tianhao Group is only slightly better The main business is very different How can you do business like this? The entire building, except for those top families No one is qualified to buy Universal Pictures he It is impossible that he is the biological son of the chairman of Tianhao Group. I'm the nephew of the chairman of Universal Pictures. Hahaha So what kind of shit is he? You're thoughtful. Hey, the latest news from our station Huan Qiu Ying Ye Xin Jin Yi Jie Chen Yan It was revealed that she had affairs with several senior executives of the group The most popular Liu Jinlong, Vice President of Universal Pictures I didn't expect this guy to play this trick But he didn't know How Universal Pictures became a behemoth Mr. Liu: Universal Pictures' stock price is plummeting Just normal fluctuations It seems that this kid That's all I can do. First they used the scandal to discredit us. Then take advantage of the panic of stockholders Caused our stock to fall What a pity Mr. Liu's stock price has fallen by more than 30%. What This, this, this is impossible Even if the stock market is turbulent It's impossible to fall so much. Hey Mr. Liu Will he use the financial resources of Tianhao Group to attack us? impossible If he does this That's courting death. Want to snipe Universal Pictures, which has a market value of hundreds of billions He must come up with more than 10 times the cash flow. Even if Tianhao Group sells I can't raise that much money. What if he takes advantage of the fall in stock prices? Let the board put pressure on us How to clean up the blocked gynecology website What you said does make sense. It's not a big deal to fall down like this I have to find a way to stop it. I'll call my uncle now. As for the ban Don't worry. You are now the world's number one The group cannot withstand such turmoil The board of directors will definitely find a way to keep you. How long will it take? The stock market attack has entered its final stage Only 5 minutes to go Prepare acquisition materials Come with me around the world The chairman is not well. Someone is attacking the group Sniper Group This this Who is so self-inflicted? What are you doing hesitating? Let's say it's Shangjing Night Market Shangjing Night Market Why That's not right Why did the Ye family in Shangjing arrest me for no reason? I have always been very supportive of the Ye family. Who is so bold? Office of the Chairman Shangjing Ye Family Ye Shao, why did you come here in person? Of course, they came to acquire Universal Pictures. Ye Shao Acquired This is the signing of the acquisition materials for Universal Pictures. Hey, Chief My Universal Pictures is worth hundreds of billions Your 10 billion acquisition Do you have any opinion on this? No Notify all shareholders The board meeting will be held in 5 minutes Uncle, our grandfather was attacked by someone. You should think of a solution quickly. This matter must be related to that guy named Ye Tell them See you in 5 minutes. Hey uncle Are you talking to me? 5Fen Zhong Nei Dai Shang Chen Yan Lai Hui Yi Shi Zhao Wo Bring within 5 minutes Shang Chen Yan Lai Hui Yi Shi Zhao Wo A Ah, it's Mr. Liu. What does the chairman say? My uncle told me to take you to the conference room to meet him. I think we should discuss the specific plan on how to protect you. Then let's get going good Wait until this matter is resolved. I want to let Ye Fan know the consequences of offending me. All the board members are here. Why is Dad there? Get out of here This is the board of directors of Universal Pictures. What qualifications do you have to sit here? Xiao Qiu, why did you hit me? Damn thing My hard-earned career is ruined in your hands Xiaoqiu, those are some negative effects As long as we are positively oriented Quick clarification It was solved quickly Chairman, rest assured I will clarify the rumor myself. Clarify the ass Universal Pictures has now acquired What you say does not count Chairman of Tingtingxing Hahaha, uncle, you must be kidding. Who can buy Universal? Ha ha I Why is it you? Introduce yourself I am now the new chairman of Universal Pictures What he can't do Absolutely impossible Xiaoqiu, this is a loser How could he be This is impossible Am I qualified now? Seek justice for Miss Mu The evidence is strong What justice does she have? The evidence is strong Then tell me When and where is Ms. Mu? Who and what happened? Can't tell Send things down Zhe Xie Shi Chen Yan He Liu Jin Long Mai Tong Mei Ti Zao Yao P picture of Miss Mu's chat history and transfer history Things didn't have to turn out like this. But you people here Some of them had an affair with Shen Ran. Some people cannot distinguish right from wrong Some only care about their own interests Disregarding the innocence of others Now I say Everyone at Universal Pictures I owe Miss Mu an apology. Who has any comments? very good As for what to do No need for me to teach It's your turn. I'm sorry, Ms. Ms. Mu sorry I'm sorry, Ms. I'm sorry, Ms. Hello How come you can't hear what Uncle Ye said? Sorry I can't hear you Yes, yes, I'm sorry. good Apologies are over. Next up is accountability. Chen Xiao Jie Cong Ni Kai Shi Ba Miss Shen, let's start with you. Chen Yan Ni Zuo Wei Huan Qiu Yi Ren Damage the artist's image Damage to the company's interests Spreading rumors about colleagues Xian Jue Ding Dui Chen Yan Jin Xing Yong Jiu Feng Sha Compensate the company for losses of 10 billion and pursue relevant legal responsibilities Do you have any comments? I was wrong. I was wrong. Please, please help me beg for mercy I won't target you anymore. Chen Yan Know today Why did you do that in the first place? take away Liu Jinlong It's your turn, Mr. Ye All the losses caused to Miss Mo I am willing to take full responsibility Can you forgive me? Why do you think I will let you go? Didn't you always like to talk about backstage and power? If you are not convinced You can use your own strength Get justice for yourself I don't dare. I don't dare. Didn't you say before that I couldn't do anything? Don't try again Ye Shao, I was wrong Raise your hand Please spare me Liu Jinlong embezzled 5 billion yuan of public funds Abuse of power to defile female artists Spreading rumors to damage the reputation of others I'm afraid I won't be able to get out for the rest of my life. Ye Shao Ye Shao Can you please forgive me? Ah, I can do anything for you. Ye Shao Ye Shao Ye Shao I don't mind this way of handling it. Oh no That's good Next I'm going to move the board of directors I declare From this moment on Mu Qingli appointed as new executive director of Universal Pictures Who objects? The integration of Young Master Universal Pictures has been completed Good Global Operations Let Mu Qingli take care of it from now on. You've wasted too much time here. After the handover is completed Keep an eye on Tianhao Group's projects. OK Besides, Miss Mu said she wants to treat you to a meal Express your gratitude The box has been booked. Tonight at Chen Yun Building This is the detailed address My leaves are good haha The kid said What did you do the past two days? I called you but you didn't answer I changed my number after the marriage. Liu Qing and his family always bother me Did you know Sorry I didn't tell you That's right Transfer the money to you Alipay received 60,000 yuan 60,000 You won the lottery But I can't take this 30,000 yuan. Transfer it to you If I hadn't had you that day I don't know how much more embarrassment I will have to endure. Besides, you're getting married soon. It's not that you need money all the time. Just consider it as the gift money I gave you back then. If you don't collect Just don't treat me as a brother Walking Swallow I made a note of it. Stop talking nonsense. By the way, why are you calling me? I told you that you already know everything about the class reunion, right? That's great. Let's go in together. Do the math We haven't seen each other for many years. yes Hey, look That's Xu Zhao, yeah Xu Zhao It's this kid We had a good relationship at the beginning. Li Qiang Good boy, you still remember me, hahahaha Ye Fan, we haven't seen each other for a long time. It's been a long time since I last saw you. Hey Mr. Zhang You finally came to this class reunion. It's perfect with you Please joke The car is parked crookedly Help me park the car Okay, I promise to complete the task Xu ZhaoXu Zhao You are much more sensible than before. Stop, stop, stop, go This is Zhang Yang When I was in school, I relied on my family's money to Zhang Luo and a group of people bully the weak We three can't stand him. Unexpected He has become so realistic. Isn't that Ye Fan? He is here too Didn't you chase her back then? I was rejected by others. Do you hate that they were ignorant at that time? You came just in time. I want to see the monitor back then. What is going on now? Come and have a laugh with Mr. Zheng Talk aside Uh, classmates Today is our triennial class reunion. Before you officially take your seat I have a few words to say Actually, nothing. We sit down to eat normally. He should be particular. Right, after all? You can't be so careless like we were in school. So what should we do to be sensible? A millionaire like Mr. Zhang You have to be the main seat Uh, what's the second one? Just lean back Working people like you two Just find a corner to sit. Hey Xu Zhao I'm talking about you. It's not fair. We are all classmates. What are the rules? I can do it casually No, no, no Ye Fan, our former class monitor If he can't take the main seat How embarrassing! Ye Dabanzhang Right? It's important today. Let's get together with our old classmates It doesn't matter what I do I washed the sofa after sitting on it Mr. Zhang I know you care about the friendship between us classmates. But this is not appropriate What's inappropriate? Rules are rules Even if you force Ye Fan to stay by your side But the one sitting next to you They are all high net worth individuals from the upper class. Can you guys talk about cooperation? He has no say in the project. Then he's even more embarrassed. That's true. It just so happens that Zijin has an endorsement I need to give him some advice. I can't accompany Ye Fan anymore You go find a place to sit I'm sorry, squad leader Ye. I see you Sit there. Isn't Qin Zijin our school beauty? I heard that he was discovered by a scout from Universal Pictures. I have already made my debut in several dramas. A little famous I didn't expect them to become a couple. He was chasing Ye Fan back then. I heard that Ye Fan said at that time that he wanted to concentrate on studying. Preparing for prestigious schools Rejected him Ye Fan is so miserable Mixed without Zhangyang good The celebrity school beauty has also become someone else's woman Even my best friend has become someone else's lackey Why What the hell? It's fine if Zhang Yang gets rich You lick Zhang Yang Take our leaves as a token of allegiance How come I didn't realize you were such a slut before? Hush Hush Qiangzi Ye Fan, today I will let you know the difference between you and me I said leaves Look at his ghostly appearance. Would rather give others a mouth than look at us We are poor, so let him lose face like this Haven't you heard a saying? Rich people have distant relatives in the mountains Being poor in a busy city, no one cares Of course, you should curry favor with whoever has money. As you said Then let's all go and curry favor with Zhang Yang. If people are happy Can you give us some money to spend? In this society, the competition is about who has more money If you don't agree Show your worth Hey Xu Zhao I heard that you and Ye Fan are best friends. Now, it's so hard to see each other You have to go over and give him a toast. Mr. Zhang, today You are the best in the whole audience I am still the person in charge of this class reunion. Of course I will serve you well. Their relationship is actually like that Just a nodding acquaintance We are classmates. or You go over and give him a toast in my name Just thank him for rejecting Qin Zijin Give me such a great name Okay, Mr. Zhang Since you ordered Then I'll move in. bring it on What are you doing here? I won't serve you well. Mr. Zhang is here. Aren't you afraid that we working class people will embarrass you? I know you're upset But reality is reality Even the school beauty Qin is with Mr. Zhang Don't you understand? In this world, having money is the best Your backbone is useless. Ye Fan Stand up, I'll toast to Mr. Zhang. you say You need to bring some for drinking After all, Mr. Zhang's identity is there. Mr. Zhang invites you to drink to give you face It's your fucking pleasure. Ye Fan You should stand up Raise your glasses and clink them with mine Otherwise you are being disrespectful. Otherwise you are being disrespectful. Xu Zhao, I tell you We won't stop you from being a dog. But you have to know Not all people are as mean as you. Before people learn to walk The first thing I learned was to crawl. Look at you Look at me again Isn't the difference obvious enough? Ye Fan, you can't refuse this glass of wine. You have no right to refuse Xu Zhao I tell you Although we are poor But it does not affect our dignity Go back to your million-dollar table. You are not welcome here I remember Xu Zhao was the most courageous one. In front of money What's the use of having guts? I guess he would eat shit without hesitation. Best friend from the past Step on their heads to please others What a irony Shut up, old man. I'll give you one last chance. Stand up for me Hey hey hey good Okay, okay. All classmates Don't be so stiff. What does it mean not to stand up and raise a glass? Toast to me It's disrespectful to me. Xu Zhao, am I so arrogant? Mr. Zhang Otherwise you can make a lot of money This pattern This temperament It came up in a flash. Right? Ye Fan and Mr. Zhang are here You're still sitting Why don't you stand up and toast? Forget it. He is a part-time worker I haven't seen any big world. What are you forcing him to do? Former class monitor Thank you for giving Qin Zijin to me This cup I respect you, why are you still playing with your phone? you I don't drink Can you die if you drink one? Why are you so stubborn? Ye Fan, do you know Mr. Zhang, this glass of wine can bring you a lifetime of wealth. Mr. Zhang, this glass of wine can bring you a lifetime of wealth. Oh, not that exaggerated. My annual salary is only a few million After all, he is just a senior worker at Universal Pictures. Universal Pictures, with a market value of 100 billion Zhang Yang also works at Universal Pictures No wonder the two of them can be together Langcai from the school The female appearance has become the current handsome and beautiful couple The bottom line Oh yeah What is Ye Fan busy with recently? Do you want me to introduce you to a job? Universal Pictures has international superstars Mu Qingli is a pillar of the stage. The basic salary is not low. Consider this Yufan, what are you standing there for? You still don't rush to show your kindness to Lord Zhang Stand up and thank you Okay, okay, okay Are you done yet? You think having some dirty money is a big deal? Why are you acting so high and mighty? Hadron Thank you. I have something to do. Don't get excited. I'm just afraid of our class monitor. Good talents and high quality are not sought after Waste your youth Ye Fan, what do you mean? It's fine if you refuse to give in to Mr. Zhang's good intentions. Don't you know how to thank Mr. Zhang? Ye Fan, I'm glad you rejected me. I am also very fortunate Die for face and suffer Ye Fan wants me to say You fucking deserve it. Oh I see This is why you are willing to be a dog and bite people Xu Zhao I look down on you Okay, Xu Zhao. Not everyone is as sensible as you. Some people Opportunities Ahead He can't catch You will never achieve anything great in your lifetime Sooner or later you will regret your choice today. Back to the point I didn't know that Mr. Zhang was in Universal Pictures. What job are you responsible for? I'm just an actor coordinator. Managing a few little stars It just so happens that Qin Zixin is under my control Mr. Zhang, you are really low-key. Who doesn't know Universal Pictures' stars will all start as second-tier stars in the future Qin Joke has a bright future No wonder some things are out of your reach You mean there are some things you know And I don't deserve to know You can understand it this way Hahahaha I just didn't speak Now, let's talk. I started to install it. Then you say What's going on at Universal Pictures? You know what's going on? And I haven't Know Ms. Mu and Mr. Ye are in box 32 Do you want me to take you there? No need, I'll go there by myself Asking you a question You say it, okay, okay Don't push him. If you push him any further, he won't be able to keep his lies. How embarrassing it would be then. Classmates, where am I today? I originally planned to be an ordinary person. Get together with everyone I didn't expect things to turn out like this. How do ordinary people Could it be that you What kind of second-level identity is there? We don't know Come on, let's listen See if you can scare me to death. Overestimating one's capabilities Jiangzhou's top entertainment company Universal Pictures Yesterday the owner Universal Pictures acquired Who is so generous? Such a big thing I didn't know It is reported that the acquirer is Shangjing Night Vision Group Universal Pictures' new chairman is only in his early 20s Can be called young and promising Introduce yourself I am Ye Fan, the new chairman of Universal Pictures Ye Yefan No way, this is impossible. How come? Ye Fan actually acquired Universal Pictures Doesn't this mean that he is already worth over 100 million? This is the real rich man. How can it be like that Zhang Yang? Worth millions The tail is up to the sky The most ridiculous ones are Qin Zijin and Xu Zhao A bachelor who lost his diamond A good person is not good enough I have to be a dog And it won't last long. Mr. Zhang, who just said with such confidence He has the highest status in the audience Who is going to assign a job to our Ye Zi? I can't catch any chance. Nothing has been accomplished in this life Oh, that's right. Xu Zhaozhao, your statement of ranking by worth Then I ask you My brother Ye is worth hundreds of billions. Which table should he sit at? I've already disliked you. It is good for a gentleman to love money. But you have to do it right Learn to be a good person first Do you understand? And you were not worthy of Ye Zi before Now I don't deserve it anymore I don't believe it The news didn't mention the name. Just looks like Yes, there is this possibility Ye Fan, how do you prove it? prove Is this necessary? You dare not prove Then you are fake I'll prove it Ms. Mo You are Miss Mu It's me Hello, I am the battalion commander of Universal Pictures. You can help me find General Mouillet A distinguished guest is coming I'm afraid you don't have time to catch up with your classmates here. No problem Anyway, there is nothing good to stay here. Xu Zhao, if you have any difficulties in the future, you can come to me Be a good person, don't be a dog Mr. Ye, my master wants to see you. Your master My master's surname is Ye The Second Master has arrived Introduce yourself Night Watch in Tokyo Ye Shixun In terms of relationship, you should call me Second Uncle