Transcriber: Vivian Lim I'd like to start Now, I can't see many of you, but I'd like you to take your two fingers and put them lightly against Now, I'd like you to push and keep them plugged. And what you're experiencing Okay, you can let go. What you experienced just now In my audiology practice, I routinely twice as bad as you just experienced. Hearing loss is common. For many of us, it's not a matter of if, but when we will lose some of our hearing. About half of us two-thirds of us It's on the increase in children, and baby boomers than those of past generations. And if hearing loss runs in the family, there's a good chance you'll get it too. You got to choose your parents wisely. (Laughter) But kidding aside, it can have serious repercussions, such as depression, social isolation, contribute to cognitive decline, and even increase the risk And hearing loss is much the kind of hearing loss Pitches are heard unequally. My father could stand right but he had no trouble rumble down the street And hearing loss due to aging changes how we understand speech. And it causes words that sound "wake" and "lake," "mad" and "dad" and "bad," especially when there is And as unintuitive as it may be, loud sounds can become unbearable loud, distortingly loud. Hearing loss is a complex problem. Perhaps you know people who, still have to have the TV volume up, always watch TV with subtitles, and frequently ask everybody "Would you please repeat that?" Aren't hearing aids supposed When I began helping people I expected that hearing aids and that wearing them would make If that were only true. I have personally witnessed of hearing aid developments from analog to digital devices - devices that can be remotely programmed, that include fitness tracking, and feedback and noise reduction They still don't work And how can they? Hearing aids can't make hearing normal. They're good at making sound louder, but they can't always make sound - especially when the inner ear And hearing aid microphones of about four or five arms' lengths. And hearing the world reduces our exquisite three-dimensional Consequently, hearing aids cannot improve relative to the sounds beyond that critical microphone distance - something that normal hearing ears Of course, hearing aids But for many, they are not especially when you consider even the most advanced hearing aids, can only restore about half Well, what about the other half? What about those microphone Better hearing is possible. And let's talk about some tools that can make that happen. We're all familiar that allow people to listen to music and make phone calls Did you know many modern Hearing aids can be paired and an app on a smartphone as well as the streaming and those Google Maps navigation And additional Bluetooth accessories can be purchased to make hearing So, a small TV transmitter directly into hearing aids, and wireless microphone accessories can be added to improve hearing They can be clipped or put on the table in the restaurant, closer to the people or handheld, pointed at people Sometimes you don't need but simply being considerate If you know that hearing aids don't speak from the other room, right? Get the other person's attention Rephrase part of a conversation. Repeat a punchline. Speak a little clearer, a little bit And most important of all, move closer. When you move closer, for the person with hearing loss, and you allow the hearing aids All doable at home and in the office, Having some of you come up on stage might be cozy, but it's a little awkward. And frankly, it's not necessary because of the ADA law. The Americans with Disabilities Act requires that places think high school and theaters like this one - where a PA system, that they also provide for patrons with hearing loss analogous to venues for patrons in wheelchairs. Similar laws exist elsewhere, like in the UK and the EU These hearing accommodations, broadcast audio from the PA system, from this microphone, wirelessly to hearing aids headset devices, that the venue, and to make available at a service desk. Yet, the typical hearing aid users that these laws apply and that these systems and assistive Consequently, they don't take advantage As an audiologist and advocate with I work to help consumers hear their best and especially help them using these assistive listening systems. That's made easier if their hearing aid It's a tiny antenna that comes And when that telecoil is turned on - it will receive signals that are broadcast by a hearing loop system. Hearing loop is one type Frequently, that little telecoil but the consumer is unaware because their audiologist may not have and not explained what Or worse, there's no telecoil because it wasn't recommended And why telecoils are so beneficial when you hear this next audio recording. This historic 140-year-old theater for over a decade. And if you're sitting in the audience, and you are wearing hearing aids, now is the time to turn on the telecoil so you can hear for yourself. You'll be hearing a recording. The first part, you'll hear as if with the hearing aid set to microphone, followed by a recording with the instrument set to telecoil. Let's listen. (Audio) Speaker: We inherently don't want to get old We're sitting there and our young people making fun of older people, Juliette Sterkens: If a person and a venue has a hearing loop installed, all that consumer needs to do and when the lecture or the show starts, turn on the telecoil. In 2009, I was sitting where, the week before, when Russ, one of my dear patients Now, Russ was familiar with telecoils because he used the telecoil at home And when the minister began to speak - I saw Russ turn around, kind of gesturing so I gave him the nod and Russ goes, "Whoa! I can really hear now!" (Laughter) That experience helping Russ basically launched me At first, I wanted all my patients and my patients and I began advocating But soon, I could no longer be content I wanted every hearing aid user in the country to learn about telecoils, about hearing loops and the advantage And since that time, from about two dozen hearing loops in 2011 to nearly 900 hearing loops today. (Cheers) (Applause) Thank you. These hearing loops are in senior centers, in high school auditoriums, and in some 500 places of worship. And around the country, thanks to my efforts and the efforts of some other hearing loops and their distinctive which, of course, stands for telecoil, can now be found at airports, and landmark places, outdoor theaters, and even in New York City taxicabs. There is even a hearing loop in the U.S. I've always wanted to go I'm not sure if it's working. (Laughter) (Sighs) (Applause) (Cheers) And one more development, hearing loops are being put on the map. Google Maps is now starting in its accessibility section. It's a work in progress because there are many more than there are here in the United States. But it will allow anybody before they go to a wedding and see if a hearing loop And if not, to go to the service desk If you use hearing aids or you know someone who uses hearing aids and you'd like to help them you know, hear the half that hearing aids I urge you to try out get your telecoils activated and insist your next set not only with Bluetooth technology And if you don't use hearing aids yet, the next time you go to the theater, You'll hear better than sitting Explore the Get in from the Hearing Loss Or reach out to consumer organizations in your country If in public places you have trouble hearing, or where an assistive listening system or it's not providing reach out to the venue As a last resort, with a regulatory agency such as ADA.gov. Become familiar with accessibility laws I believe that together, for people with hearing loss. If you have trouble hearing (Applause)