Alright, we're checking out the only game with the best thing It's Insect Evolution. I'm not going to lie, I already have a way and my plan is to eventually use it and As you can see, we can spend you know, ultra demon vampire spider Right now, all I am I like to eat strawberries and my kin. I love that everyone here is basically a giant cannibal. And in order to get bigger you have to murder So as you can see, you can upgrade Although I'm not really sure why, speed Like, why am I in such a hurry? Oh, I have- I have a choice between getting eaten by a spider or, I need your soul. I can't eat any other souls. They didn't give me enough food to grow. All right, so now we're starting off at level two. Okay, the insects are actually getting We're up to, like, level fives and sixes. Just kind of, like, roaming around. I love how when you upgrade yourself is like a bigger butt. Like, realistically, the bigger the back- Look at it! The bigger the backside, the more. What are those? What are these, It's either that or they're apples, maybe? I'm a spider. My- I don't know how I juked that guy. That was like some NFL level Now, some of you may have been family members, but honestly, So, you know, if you- Since there's no- Since you didn't get me Oh, no. There's nothing I can do here The only thing you can really do for me Let's upgrade more strength. Now I'm starting off as a level I like how you get, like, Am I actually going to yeet myself as a spider? With the 360 no scope! I do appreciate that the spider had to do the no scope on top of that. Man, you have to have a lot of agility as a spider. I never really thought about it. I also have to mention, too. Is it just me or is the life of an insect By incredibly short, before you inevitably die. It's like Fast and furious, but I don't know, you never come out of it You just come out of it, like, either full or depressed Oh, I'm level five now. Like a lightning Starting things off level four is hot. Also, I got to say, too- I was going to say, some human installed a giant boxing glove on a I would almost want to die from it That's okay, though. Thankfully, because of all the Mars I can continue to upgrade. So now we're level five and we are literally eating most things you know, the gigantic nuclear spider I'm not really sure. Oh, we're going up to level 8, I think. Oh, not quite. No, I got slightly murdered, but I still I'm here to eat donuts and kill people related to me, and I'm Fortunately, as an insect, We're all kind of. You know, we all have eight I think the ant has three legs. Actually. Hold on. Let me upgrade yet again. Why is there ants in this and flies How much food are you worth, fly? Probably not very much. Oh, never mind. That was a total evolution from that fly. The flies are actually I had no idea. We're Oh, I can kill everything here. Oh, we're level nine now. Oh, the evolutions are coming quick. That kind of tastes like split pea soup. I try to think about what each spider specifically tastes like. Nothing is standing in our way! Yumyumyumyumyum!!! All right, more levels. I'm not upgrading speed. I like to take my time Obviously! Little green fly over there is, You know, it has it has no real It's just calories. Is that a scorpion at the end then? That literally looks like Spider-Man's spider. Actually, it's not just a Spider-Man spider. It looks like a Spider-Man spider, but also someone made it, like, a battlebot! It had like a bunch of I'm not exactly sure why Mother Nature would need to evolve I think they're already doing quite They don't need to also be able like Godzilla or anything over- I have- It might- Do I have, like, spell cast- Oh, I'm a brain spider now. My cranium is absolutely massive. I had no idea that the upgrades would flow so easily now. Level 13! Like a fruit salad One of those things Oh, yeah. Oh, it just keeps going Although this spider at the end with Not so much scary. All right, more upgrades. Level eight, starting this off you know, a black widow, of which- I was going to say, we have a literal nonstop amount of. that you don't even become And you just kind of accept the fact that All right. Keep upgrading. I'm sure this may But realistically, it just looks like It looks like a spider that ate Now, everyone can track where it is All right. The old fruit there are quite a few spiders that have, Come here, I need your soul, Luckily, the brain spiders are just They either move so slow that there's no actual reason That one, there was kind of doing the side you know, trying to get a higher score in PE Oh, it's- Oh, it's the money level. You are not acme hammering me. If I just have to stay on the side So now I have to get- You know, my- my rectum not paddled. so we get a bunch of eating. Okay so now we are starting as strange I don't know, lik, Tales of Manor Dungeons I'm pretty certain I don't think that this is something that I- That I would- I would immediately look above my head because at that point, I don't think That's that's like that's like I would try and- maybe see if I had a bunch of skills because- OOooohhhh... I'm a very hairy spider now. It's interesting but clearly he's got an appetite. We are just crashing through everyone. Spider is not the last spider. Oh, just got a bunch of flies here I guess that was just. There was really nothing for me to do. I think I will get this speed. I think the only reason it is the spiders are starting to move slower. Maybe the game is doing that to me to incentivize me I don't really know. All right, here. Speed, There, level seven. It feels kind of like a placebo effect. I'm not really sure Okay, there's the giant hairy spider. Maybe that's a tarantula Whoa!!! It's too bad that I now have to avoid them Otherwise they'll eat my hypothalamus. Medulla oblongata spider! How come I didn't get any kind of food from eating myself? That's kind of strange. I would have expected to get a little bit of nutrition or something. Oh, we're getting them upgrades. We are. We are starting life as a brain spider. Now, I am the smartest of all spiders. I did incredible on my SATs. I don't really know what, if anything, Oh, we're going to upgrade I want to- I want- I really want to get to that Now the other thing obviously you can do violent spikes to try and murder them Give me your souls, you're not using them anyway! All right. 59. Now we are that- Yeah. See this colorful spider right here? That's the one I want to become. I don't have the strength. Well, I will in a minute, because once we eat this brain spider, There it is. Oh, I'm the devil. I'm literally a devil spider. It's got, like, a pitchfork. That's kind of amazing. Okay, now I'm. Now I don't know what I am now. I've got. I've got the crunchy We're doing a lot of upgrades here. The crunchy mandibles are actually going And now I'm like, I don't know what you'd Once I maximize all this, do I have to- Do I have to get involved in Mortal Kombat with the God of Spiders, then like take his title So becoming the demon Lord, I don't know if that's so much of a I guess if it's Satan's arrow, Yeah, there it is. There's the Spider-Man spider. to evolve the rest of the way I can't beat him yet Even with all my colorations over here, painted on my back. I've got the money for it. Oh, you can dance back and forth, What the- I don't think that a spider's backside What is it, like, The Exorcist of Spiders? Did you see its entire torso was rolling? That's not healthy. Oh, I'm the Spider-Man spider. Okay. In fact, I mean, Yeah. See, now it's happening to me. I can feel my spinal column just shifting. And I don't know if- I mean, they shouldn't. Now, I'm like a Minecraft diamond spider. Oh, there is. There's the king of spiders in the pit. I'm coming for you, baby. Whoa. Okay. All right. I didn't really expect there right in the beginning. Here, I need to be able to upgrade, There's, like, a level 20. All right, there's the spider All right? That is definitely There it is. Okay, Got to watch out for Minecraft. Murder you. Grab some strawberries, Since, you know, I've been eating And then we'll have The Exorcist Spider, and we're stopped by the Minecraft spider. Oh, watermelons. Oh, yeah. Whoa, what is that? It's like the cataract spider. Okay, I definitely need to upgrade because now I can't eat Does that spider have limbs that are, It looked like its legs were made out of human bones. Yeah, right there. The googly eyed spider It's actually like, you know, I got to try and get as much money just to see if we can get another upgrade. I have a feeling to become Exorcist Spider, basically permanently. Oh, yeah. All right. We're going for full evolution. Every one out of the way. I would say I'm eating these apples but I don't really know if a spider Okay. There's my bony legs, It's like made out of the legs like all the individuals their whole lives, Spider, you're the one I was going to say Oh, we got to level 21. We're going all the way. Going most of the way. And now we're in the circle. What do you do? Do I just- Is this like a staring contest? Because I don't know if I'm winning I am literally vomiting So, wait, is there anything Look, it's it's still going. Oh, yeah. You can get to level 22. Is there a level 23 there? Well, you can get to level 23. Okay, I have an idea. Now I need to try something Well, first off, because, you know, spiders the flames of Mordor at people. I can always count on my buddy Well, I've run out of things to eat, Anyway, folks, hope you enjoyed this episode of Insect Evolution.