This is the downtown, KABs hit here. Something big was coming here Was there a kindergarten Drone! Drone, get in here! - Move! The drone is flying. Can you hear it? We had been here a long time ago, and Well, there was life here, there were still It's quite a homefront village. I'm a little shocked. I didn't think that even though it is still relatively How far is it from here to... I saw it on DeepState this morning. Are we to go first? Yes, there are drones here like flies. It's flying again. Is it a drone or a car? FPV! Under the bushes! There's a drone. Can you hear it, Vlad? Didn't it fall? - It's still smoking! Through the bushes, through the bushes. Or maybe it was ours... The Russians are 17 They move very quickly here. They manage to break They are seizing these small villages in to cut off the highway I looked today: it is 5 km Today we will show you what these And they are very dear to my And I did not expect to see what I saw they are being destroyed very quickly, virtually And the soldiers of the 68th Brigade today will show us what the Something is shooting again, Quick! FPV drone! I wonder if there is still phone Did a black Toyota pickup drive by? It flew by, yes. - Where Are there still people here, Not many, but there are Hello! You don't have water, cell service, Probably not, because the Maybe some water in the wells. Once it was Avdiivka To keep watching our reports, you at BuyMeaCoffee. This is already Mykolaivka. This is, in fact, the railroad ...they want to go around us, cut us off. we are caught It's easier for them to encircle us than us in a circle, then we've got no food delivery, nothing. What do you think of Novozhelanne? We have good positions, can Or is it also just a matter of time? It's a matter of time. It depends... On how they act. You know, they have much more ammo, Their mines. They don't spare nothing. Aren't you tired of driving The guys are running back and forth, sometimes they carry wounded. You don't drive cars to It depends on what we need there. We have And so, for the most part we do it quickly, Yesterday, we took some wounded guys. We made the first move, and They started to cover us, and What did they hit you with? Mortar. 80th mortar. You can already hear where Yesterday we spent some SPA? - No, it was a mortar. They struck near the houses. Misha, how in general would you describe On what scale? On a ten-point scale. Of the ones we've been to, this A ten, yeah? I don't know about other areas, Zaporizhzhia, Bakhmut. I can't say. I was not there, but... Compared to the Kharkiv and Oh, hitting the machinery now. Yesterday, a VOG passed here And it stalled. Get inside! Get inside! Grads? Run, run! Is this the Grads flying? Were those Grads flying? I need to see what's there, I'll see... Well, the General Staff for several months now: Pokrovske How does it feel How does it feel... He feels it. When they start hitting you, the FPVs, drones burning you, I felt those bombs myself. These feelings are not I told you, our commander, we had to we almost didn't make it, because they just threw grenades at us. One drone is hovering, just straight at night, and the next one flies up. One drops a bomb, You just run from place to place, Because if you stand still, you're gone. I thought... There was a bang - I thought it &quot;I have it in my yard.&quot; Well, why do you think they Artilley does not stop day or night. They There is nothing left - no They have more ammo, more people. Do you have shell hunger? Does our artillery work in the I would not say that we do. But we work anyway, we work. As long as there are shells, right? You see, our mortar is also It's a firefight, just a firefight. It's not like we are silent. This is happening around the clock, When they see the machinery, What kind of wounds did you have? Immortal is 200 [KIA], Who else did we have... Dasa 200, Aquarius 200. People I know. August. August, yes, in the hospital. Then he went out to unload the he was left with a severe contusion. What channel are you from? - Hromadske. Oh, YouTube? I'll have to check it out. Will you subscribe? - Of course! Are you not afraid to go there? No, and you? - We aren't. Is it a difficult area? - Yes. You've seen it. We heard. When you came here, there were a lot of villages were still alive, right? Yes. Take even Myrnohrad, which Every day, cars are loaded and About ten KABs struck here. In Myrnohrad. It's hard, it's hard. In general, this Pokrovsky What is the future of Pokrovsk? We'll see as we go along. Can you imagine urban Because I can't, to be honest. Everything is in God's hands.