This footlong I bought it at a Subway, That's not the dark secret. Hold on. It's part of Subway's new campaign, They've got the Auntie Anne's pretzels, And that's because Auntie Anne's and Cinnabon and dozens of other iconic brands to Sonic to the Bar are all owned by the same company, 1.4 million employees. And that company, Roark Capital, wants labor with none of the responsibility And the fight for them to keep it least discussed and most important labor So let's look at how we got here. This is Neal Aronson. He's a bit reclusive to the degree image results are just this one picture. But these two photos full of fast food Aronson began industry was first The early age of buyouts Check out our video here In 2001, Aaronson Franchise Systems, a holding company Franchise is going to be a key word A lot of you might already know this, Franchising is a business model let's say Subway, doesn't own Instead, they sell a license and all The name, the recipes, the decor smaller business who then owns Many franchise owners own That smaller owner pays licensing fees and often vendors. Like Subway owns the technology for their point of sale systems, We'll go a bit more into that relationship it's complicated Aronson's franchise hotel business he sold it for $100 million. Aronson used that money and his knowledge to start a new company, We literally had nothing when we started. The only thing we had was a dream, and Yeah, and $100 million. But about those values. Let's look at the name, Roark. The firm is named after Howard Roark, The Fountainhead. Maybe you know Ayn Rand of self-reliance and individualism So true. But what does Howard Roark Aronson, in a rare interview, and Roark's attribute the name to The Fountainhead and &quot;integrity&quot; But what Howard Roark really represents about how the company named after him is Rand's main example of egoism Randian egoism says that selfishness- that's acting purely in one's own else-is not only okay, Here's a clip from a Fountainhead movie I came here to say that I do not recognize nor to any part of my energy, The fictional Roark sorry, &quot;The egotist, in the absolute sense, He is the man who stands above the need He does not exist for any other man We'll come back to that. But let's look at what Roark actually does. Their first big acquisition is Carvel, You know, Fudgie the Whale and whatever. And over the years, they just kept there in food and auto repair, exercise, Yeah, they own schools. Primrose Schools is a chain of franchised Franchisees are encouraged to open schools And because each school is independently parents have no idea Like one Redditor who reports children So clearly it's a wide variety of brands, they all have in common: incredibly I spoke with the labor team Usually you see a little bit more diversification But Roark really does kind of specifically because that's There's this kind of constant stream And so it also makes it really difficult Roark oesn't have any union presence It's worse than most private equity firms. Roark really Wage theft is a huge issue at Roark. We found that Roark actually had the highest rate of wage and hour violations So higher than Blackstone, higher And Roark isn't ashamed of any of this. Inspire Brands- that's one of Roark's holding companies through-bragged to franchisees to kill the $15 minimum wage Federal minimum wage, which is not a livable wage So how do they get away with treating Because they're not really Roark's Let's look what the franchise model actually means, both for workers who contract with work brands Wingses and Dunkins and Schools of Rock. In 2023, Neal Aaronson, into the International Franchise He was the first private equity The IFA is the main trade group And as is usual with corporate trade you can learn a lot about what they want The only political issue that gets its own whole section on their side which is about who who is their actual boss, Does a Subway worker work or for Subway, And by extension, Neal Aronson? Here's some quick history. In 2014, McDonald's gross wage theft against their workers. The workers got together and sued At the time, this was unprecedented. But the National Labor Relations was a joint employer the local location owner, The workers got millions This sent chills through the franchise A year later, the NLRB ruled that a doesn't need to directly control franchise making the giant corporations But then in 2017, after this dude gutted the NLRB the definition of joint employer from the giant corporations and leaving it The franchise model is problematic in one of the franchises, Roark, as the ultimate owner, So this is a really profitable, you know, preferable model for a business owner because they never have to take So if the franchise industry got what they wanted, Because in 2023, the NLRB under this dude The new standard defines joint employer at least one of the following wages the assignment of duties to be performed, and disciplined hiring and discharge This change will make the corporate giants for the rights of the employees And of course, the changes is facing of Commerce, a pro-business, anti-worker They spend more on lobbying And, of course, Roark Capital sponsors There are also challenges in Congress. Perhaps that's why Neal Aronson this year entirely on West because he's fighting to keep the NLRB Joint employer is an essential role So when you look at the lawsuits you know, only the franchises are listed are technically liable for it But Roark, as the ultimate owner, still So either these workers are not being paid or Roark is not giving the franchise backing and support It really should be. Roark As the ultimate owner that, you And perhaps Roark isn't too optimistic the rule change was suggested, they began looking to sell one of their Meanwhile, the Subway deal is still going the FTC will stop it to prevent a sandwich More and more people both brands as they set When Roark put out their brief about why they did they said that it was, you know, along to consumers and that would make, We see that the prices are going up Rourke went from having $33 in 2023 to $37 billion in assets in 2024. How are you making $4 billion more dollars an hour? Right. Which brings us back to Roark. The fictional character, the ideal Howard Roark says he is the man who stands in any manner. He is not concerned of them He asks no other man to exist for him. But everything Aronson built wouldn't a million people who work for him, the workers and the politicians Everyone makes fun of the idea 'sandwich artists', but So I leave you The creator thinks, the parasite copies. The creator produces, the parasite loots. Roark brands, had some of the And so Roark is actually subsidizing in gains through tax payers. Aronson's 1.4 million workers and Aronson profits Who's the looter here? Thank you so much for watching. And we saved the most revelatory The pretzel is only 11 inches. It's called a footlong Thanks for watching. And please don't forget to, like, subscribe to support