Today I'm on what I think is the best bagging We're on Cheese Land, the ultimate bagging track for bagging in my opinion, uh let me quickly gonna be a very chill part of the race. Uh this is the one I have is a lot more speed, but still because you like- if you use the fastest combo but you're not spending the entire race coming speed. So let's see, yep! Got a bullet let's go! speed stat. So and the the reason I picked was Waluigi Wiggler, and come on! Take a look and on top of that Wiggler has a smaller hit box so we're gonna take the bullet extension right every time I take that bullet extension that is my to second place and I have a golden mushroom. I've been watching the mini map, and there's been in first place. I'm just gonna hold this and take shocked here, but if I get shocked it's not too else's in first place let's go! That King Boo must entire race. Oh I got their mushroom boost! Okay don't know if I can take all three shortcuts here from everybody. Yeah okay, oh! Okay almost lost there, but I couldn't do it because I started to hope nobody- yeah I have a really big lead, I that could be an issue but um this this might right now. Oh oh Peachette not taking the shortcut Best bagging combo in the game! Oh is the King Boo running Cheese Land! All right Mushroom Gorge don't know what bagging is, it's when you slow not to move forward too much I'm intentionally go for coins and then you take shortcuts later try big shortcuts or lots of shortcuts, it's actually strange, but only on some tracks definitely not it's because we have this gap jump right here with fire. Okay I mean this isn't that great, but in first place. Okay so I guess I'm front running I don't mind this but the gap jump is so crucial in right now. Oh okay okay pass me pass me I dare I'm not gonna have to deal with the blue shell. the gap jump. Oh no the blue shell's coming! What?! [laughs] that's so good! Wait someone has But that was so good! I went forward from the the game! Okay you see how most people are under most famous bagging video and it happened before and then I made another bagging video after wave a lot of people got the impression that bagging always one where I forget to bag. Okay bagging before you just can't stop at an item set see I'm at an item set for three or more items, you'll get drive through every box and turns out like after Um but the reason that I did worse in the wave 6 In between wave 5 and wave 6, I hit 20,000 VR better opponents, so that's why I did worse. But, play against the same opponents I played against bagging hardly got nerfed. Okay that's what horrible track to try and prove this on. Uh and uh the items- no I just donated my star from like the the items like the mushrooms and stuff, wide for this bullet here. Okay and then grab the but yeah um if there's not a lot of shortcuts on well. Um we're still getting fourth place which it's not a good idea. Okay a lot of the good I still want some players with over 20,000 VR. this is like Cheese Land level bagging track, like [laughs] it doesn't matter what you do at goes backwards like this wind, I love it! Oh coins but it's okay nothing matters at the start. is pretty degenerate, if it's a track that's super do nothing until until like lap two or lap three. bagging oops if you want to be good at this because like sometimes it's not even your choice you have no clue what you're doing here, you're and therefore you spend less time front running front runner, you should still learn how to do when the stakes are low, when you're like you this game just go for some some bagging instead. get me through the offroad, that was weird. a pretty good spot to use it anyway, I'm gonna be I'm gonna wait a little bit yeah let you pass the greens anymore but yeah this is oh this is person behind me has bananas it's great. Wha?! if you didn't hit me I would have won that it's bag on Waluigi Stadium [laughs] I don't have it doesn't matter I care too much! Oh no! [laughs] in a while I feel like, and you know what? I did and it worked I won that race. But yeah I'm not some front running. Okay nice nice! Gonna try if I can. I only have one coin, do you get coins turbo, oh this is this is gonna be difficult. I'm no! Wh-what?! How did that not hit me? Did they was smart. Okay I I'm gonna go for shroomless cut, oh no I didn't get a purple mini turbo. Okay give they're so close that if they red shell I think time to react. Oh no did they mess up? All right just I have to know that it's just orange, just for more or that could slow me down. Okay so before that mini turbo this time. Yep! This is take the bumps, let's go over here. Someone really purple mini turbo again but this Daisy is not as mess ups. One item? Nooo! Don't have a red shell oh they got hit, let's go! Let's go [laughs] okay I have to front run on Waluigi Stadium because back to bagging afterwards. Waluigi Stadium and do there's no reason to bag on this track so a coin. Oh nope didn't get a coin [laughs] I just but yeah now that everyone's- whoa! So I'm gonna do. No point bagging on this track and you know what I I just realized? I lied in the but it wasn't during a recording session I just interesting happens I don't want to like not have derusting and I was like okay I'm gonna lose this don't think I'm a God on Waluigi Stadium, I'm won that race, it was another Shortcat, it wasn't the back here I'm busy talking about that I Mushroom up. And I have a bullet still, I want to right here. There we go, sixth! A bullet tries will either stop when it wants to stop or it's yeah that got the full 8 second bullet. Very nice! I can't get too close stay left. Okay I don't know might try to take them out with the fire flower yes! Okay, and there's a blue shell, so oh they're a banana so there's no point like trying to hit up [laughs] how did the glider go so low right time. So you saw in that Waluigi Stadium race, you're trying to front run using a bagging combo, mini turbo stat is low, and that can really mess even if you're if you say oh I'm bagging. If you running at some point because you can't always time, you actually have to spend a lot of the race bagging, so you still need to be able to run at So oh okay, let's do this and just do the slow way in in eighth, nice! Okay didn't make it up uh the I'm not used to that's not actually a bad thing um how to like you you can't be too risky with Let's just start using it, I think you're supposed another box. And then right here I can just go just hit the button. I'm probably not gonna dodge right let's just use this now, get my acceleration bit better. They threw it, whoo! Nooo! Turned into does nothing but I need to get rid of it. I need I win [laughs] I I always call this way too early like I could mess that up, okay I almost messed peeerfect! Perfect race! Bagging works on this just dodge the shock on lap three! Guys don't It's so short, but- okay I wanted to get the item okay like see how I got three items at that set? a green shell in basically last place that's what more than two items from a set. And so that's the bagging a little bit um it didn't make bagging not looking for crazy items, you're looking for a helps you like take a shortcut and that helps much of a comeback already, I'm in fourth [laughs] down down there for that red shell, I only have Oh there's fire. Give me these give me these, okay this this is really bad now, this is really bad. I Yes! Thank you. Okay no one's behind me, I'm to speed up, you generally want to use them on little bit, and so the mushroom brings you right okay I have mushrooms nooo! What is going on? This can't get around all the chaos. Especially on this this. Oh fifth place okay that was really scary. starting in fifth, I haven't really bagged this much uh regardless because um I just I I guess I learning the shortcuts and not making as many there are two big shortcuts and you uh you that coin I couldn't get it. And so yeah the first enough. Right here, maybe I should have went it actually. And then um we're gonna have another so I just need to make sure I have a mushroom for go forward right now. Get around this Shy Guy and don't want to deal with you so I'm just gonna and hit you, that's always the rule. Okay uh well this plant. Okay oh okay okay okay bite the toads shortcut is coming up soon, give me mushrooms. be able to take the shortcut, but you know what what I can do? No no okay okay! Come on come on wait wait oh this is so goofy [laughs] I learned that's the most useless thing I've ever learned in just enough for the item. Hmmm maybe- oh nooo! I it wasn't in time. Oh nice items! I just need to activate this! Too risky! Let's get a double here, this green's right behind me I need it, mushroom what a crazy race! Nothing went right and I good room, let's try some bagging here. Mount but I'm starting in basically last place so this and pretty much guarantee that I'm gonna get these to leave, get these three coins get my speed up, not gonna go wide for those coins right there, no that's pointless. I'm not gonna take the coin just do the coins right here. Give me that give the coins but this is fine. Oh okay dangerous but it was because I got bumped and I saved it so get the items down there! Okay and it's gonna be everyone's so much better, and so I'm not gonna place that's probably not gonna happen here. Okay past these people, yep that was very dangerous! Get rid of this I don't want this right now I helping me get speed, perfect! No not perfect! I there? Okay I messed up everything and got fourth and running tracks. Rock Rock Mountain is such a so I'm gonna fight for those coins at the start. Okay you can't stay here for too long but yeah and you'll see why if you haven't seen it before you need is at least uh triple mushrooms, a star bit here, take this! And I pretty much guaranteed Whoa! Almost looked like a glitch but yeah right entire road on the left? And I'm only going up can take that all three laps, so obviously on lap let's oh! These are so close and those bananas I mushroom right now. They're taking my coins. I what this is fine I'm so far behind, that I can or golden mushroom shock [gasps] this is amazing! to kind of stay away from them actually I'm going I almost just did the worst thing ever okay I only I'm gonna take the lower path here [Music] nooo just gonna use it now, um the people near the you can kind of dodge the shock in the glider but I should I should not have been so not paying mushrooms, no! [Music] okay so I guess like take the shortcut give me mushroom, yes! Don't one to hit me and I can win this. Hold down on the but I got the shock and that was really good, I and so even though I did very poorly afterwards worst part about doing a full bagging video, like zero coins I I have no advantage to doing this even some bagging tracks, it's fine to front the whole time. Here's the thing about bagging if um whenever I got the shock, I would just panic. know what's the best spot to use it, it's so I'm a lot better with it because I frequently training for a sport, like when people train they train specific situations that rarely come up to specifically train in those situations. I'm I can take this shortcut, yeah maybe I went a what is this? What is this? Give me just give me race could have gone so much better, wow these what are you supposed to do? Okay they didn't blooperrr! Okay this is such a rough race, I don't okay I'm being blessed by the items though, so just get rid of it. Oh I'm right next to first me fall let me just- [laughs] I was gonna