2011 was an exciting year for astronomers. For over 200 years mankind had known about in the asteroid belt, but for most of that, The first asteroid to be discovered, Ceres, of planets. A year later, Pallas was discovered, and in Because of this, in 1845, our Solar System to Uranus, as Neptune hadn't been discovered As more and more asteroids were discovered, as planets. A good thing too, as today there are millions However, before 2011, we had never seen any Enter the Dawn spacecraft. Launched in 2007, it had a very special mission, two of these large asteroids. First Vesta, and then Ceres. But what did it find and discover while it I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching everything Dawn saw and discovered around what made the Dawn spacecraft one of the most and how it's success paved the way for NASA Let's start with Dawn itself. It's trip to Vesta took four years, utilising way. And you'll be forgiven for not seeing anything However, zooming in on the Dawn spacecraft ion engine. Ion engines had been tested already on NASA's it pushed this technology to a whole new level. Thanks to its ion engine, it was the first separate extra-terrestrial bodies. You see, while ion thrusters aren't very so can remain on for extended periods of time. Unlike chemical thrusters, which rely on reactions from the rocket, ion thrusters simply ionise acceleration. These ionised gas particles rush out of the in the opposite direction. As the ionised gas is expended slowly - Dawn all - the acceleration is really slow. It would take Dawn 4 days to accelerate from But over extended periods, it really adds Dawn was firing its thrusters for 85% of the only 72kg of xenon propellant, and gaining Upon reaching Vesta in July 2011, the images It really was not what they were expecting. After being captured by Vesta's gravity, at this unique asteroid. So, what made Vesta an expectedly nice surprise? The first thing you'll notice about Vesta It kind of looks like a squashed ball. There are two reasons for this. The first is that it is not very big. Yes, these asteroids, although big for asteroids, Vesta is not quite big enough for it to be to be rounded by its own gravity, as it is This gives it the surface area of Pakistan, You'll see how small it is if you compare Although it should be noted that even at this total mass of the asteroid belt, which can asteroid belt really is. The second reason for this unusual shape is past. Estimated to have occurred over a billion twice around its south pole with planetary These impacts produced craters so large, they asteroid. The crust has since cooled off and solidified, As these craters have overlapped, Rheasilvia crater that remains. As is typical with complex craters, terraced seen in the form of huge troughs around the in terms of size. Also typical of complex craters, a prominent This peak was once thought to be the tallest Dawn observations shows that the title has is still 20-25km high and over 100km across. Due to its size compared to the size of Vesta, South Pole, and it is easily visible from The two collisions that carved out the South into space. So much debris ended up in the asteroid belt spectral type classification, namely V-Type V-Type asteroids are thought to have originated back to those impacts. But these asteroids didn't just end up in They are scattered all across the solar system, up on Earth come from Vesta, known as howardite-eucrite-diogenite This is very handy, as we haven't needed samples of Vesta, because Vesta has delivered Their structure and composition reveal some Dawn mission attempted to broaden that understanding. From a combination of all the data collected, in our solar system. It is the only remaining rocky protoplanet, that never finished forming. The theory goes that as the solar system was disk coalesced into thousands of different These planetesimals collided with each other we see today. Our moon is thought to have formed from such Earth, called Theia, the debris from the collision rounding under its own gravity to form the Vesta obviously got started on its way to It experienced plenty of large impacts with As a result of all these impacts, the heat Vesta had an active mantle under the surface. Even today it is believed to still have a similar to the other terrestrial worlds like However, Vesta's interior has since cooled But because of this differentiated interior, if not for those two collisions we talked One of the criteria for a dwarf planet is But as the collisions happened roughly one Vesta formed, Vesta had already cooled off to a shape in hydrostatic equilibrium. And the reason Vesta never became a planet? Fingers are currently being pointed at Jupiter, formed Vesta, or at least disturbed enough Now, to the naked eye, Vesta does appear quite This is a true colour image of Vesta, appearing However, if you have a camera that can see suddenly Vesta's true variety becomes apparent. In this composite image, the black material impact, the red material is likely also from solidifying again. Dawn also made some unexpected discoveries Vesta is thought to be very dry, with little Why then has evidence of past flowing been In this false colour image, you can see a a flow channel coming out of it, the different material to the surrounding area. The exact origin of this material is unknown, and melted on collision. Another fascinating discovery was found in Near the bottom of the crater, Dawn observed Why pitted terrain was found of Vesta is a Mars before that. However, scientists believe hydrated mineral heated, perhaps by another impact, releasing the water degassed into space, leaving these And I would be remiss to mention that this which makes up the famous "snowman" found What is interesting though is if you notice craters. That is believed to be because a blanket of smoothing it over. Dawn was only around Vesta for a year before second leg of its journey towards the actual Using its ion engine, it was able to build to escape Vesta's gravity altogether, and The anticipation within the scientific community Even with the aid of the Hubble Space Telescope, It was still a mysterious body. What was lying in wait there? Would Dawn hold up to years in the unforgiving And what would Ceres reveal about our own After 2 years in transit between the two bodies, As days passed, the resolution of Ceres got Details like craters could finally be resolved, dots could be seen. I remember at the time that as these images what they could be. As higher resolution images were received, two separate spots, and then the increased different spots. Dawn also observed the scarred nature of Ceres Although, there aren't as many craters here Taking this into consideration and the bright that Ceres is not as inactive and inert as Before we delve deeper into that, let's Ceres is a very unusual body, seemingly out Most asteroids are mainly composed of non-volatile Ceres, on the other hand, has a similar composition an icy world. However, being this close to the Sun, any This means that the surface crust is rocky, with a ratio of about 90% rocks and 10% water. Beneath the surface, there is believed to rocks, such as clays, where rock and brine this has been hard to confirm. Other models suggest the core could be a lot water to be found in the mantle. Either way, water is definitely present in 50% of its total volume due to Ceres' low And it's this water that perhaps renews long timescales. You see, these bright spots are what is known Unlike regular volcanoes, which spew lava This is a 3D model based on Dawn data of the Water on Ceres is packed full of salt, meaning water sublimates, and the salt is left behind. This was directly observed over the brightest was periodically seen over this area, indicating These bright spots darken over time from exposure likely that many old cryovolcanoes exist on only see the most active and most recent ones. However, the ones we can see aren't just at so far, there are many of them dotted around Water was discovered in other regions around Due to Ceres' very minimal axial tilt of perpetual darkness. The bottom of these craters never see direct without sublimating. This is very similar to our Moon, where water the bottom of perpetually dark craters for What else did Dawn spot on the surface of As I mentioned, it saw plenty of craters, Some were very round and defined, others had There were plenty of examples of complex craters, There was even evidence of crater rims collapsing, from the crater walls. Smaller rocks were also spotted having fallen they left behind. I also love these photos taken at an angle, To me, these give a much better idea of the without an atmosphere to provide a sense of like these. Fractures were also spotted all over Ceres, crust. Some of them are relatively young, perhaps Some of them come in the form of grooves and and other fractures can be seen in the form been compressed. One particularly unusual feature was spotted It's a mountain about 20km wide and 5km it just sticks up from the surrounding area, It would be less unusual if there were other it could be said that it's a global phenomenon, world. The best bet we currently have is that it large impact directly on the other side of Seismic waves from large impact can propagate waves meet again on the opposite side is known Known antipodal regions around the solar system that found on Mercury. Ahuna Mons could fit this description, with side of Ceres triggering volcanic activity If it is a cryovolcano, it actually has some It would be classified as a dome volcano, St. Helens, or to some domes seen on Mars. In 2018, Dawn concluded its mission, having It finally ran out of propellent, which meant send back data or receive commands. It's been left in a stable, derelict orbit remain there for at least another 20 years. Dawn's discoveries and data will be at the yet, but it also leaves behind another legacy. Its ion engines were the key to its success, currently use them. SpaceX's Starlink satellites have ion thrusters station. ESA's BepiColomobo mission are using them is using them to get to the binary asteroid If you want to know more about that - in my video I made about it here. Thanks for watching! Want to help pick the next supercut video? Go to my channel page on the community tab And a big thanks to my patrons and members support too, find the links in the description All the best, and see you next time.