I have a small problem. Do you guys remember the ultimate gaming Well, ever since MSI repossessed the laptops that we used to build I also have a big problem. I promised my kids that over the long they would have a gaming minivan for our trip to Great Wolf Lodge. The long weekend is tomorrow. And there's so much more wrong with it than just the missing The screens fell off, the cables broke, we don't have any way for to even see the screens we had in there. There's no time to lose. You gotta admit it would be pretty cool to fly a jet or drive a gameplay is about as close as you can get from the comfort of your free at the link below. In the event of a crash, the last thing we would want is a giant Hey! For the kids to come flying into. So we ended up sourcing this in-car display that we're going to put here so that that one Wait, but dad, will we still be able to play games together? Absolutely, you'll be able to play games together. In fact, you will only be able to play games together. Instead of having three separate computers, we're going to have one computer and it's all going to be wired up to this, so you guys will pick what game you're going to play together and you will all play, but you'll have your own screens to look at. What if I want to play by myself? If you want to play by yourself, then you have to convince the Second computer? A two-person computer and a one-person computer? You guys are the choosiest little beggars. No, you get one computer for now. Second computer? Alex, you're not helping! This feels like a hostage negotiation. Anyway, this display is from a company called Xtrons. It's TN, but it's one of the better TNs that I've seen, so we're gonna say it's good enough as long as we can get it So what's a good kind of location for you? Like are you thinking kind of that? Why do I even The good location's right here. Oh, so it's dictated by where the is under here. Yeah, it's getting attached to the B pillar that and stuff. Got it. So before we do this, one thing. Attaching this a hole in the liner up here. What are we waiting for? Who wants to Please please me. Oh, I think we got a volunteer Unfortunately, unlike the DJI units that we put in Emily's camper So I don't have it I guess is there any reason that we couldn't work on this out in Okay, let's get the solar panels going. Do you have sunscreen? Theoretically the second I pull out into the Sun here My input's gonna hey look at that Okay, we're charging boys Now that we've got power worked out you guys wanted to help with So we need to get you guys assignments who wants to help build and Who wants to help install the screen? Okay, see you later Who wants to be my big helper my moral support animal me? wonderful Now for the fun one who wants my daughter's help? I'll take it all right So Justin you're on getting the computer installed in the back and Yeah, as for us. We're gonna work on cable management. You remember They were bad So we're gonna use type C instead, but using type C out of a desktop is a little bit more challenging than you might because while these monitors support display port over USB type C they use display port alt mode which means that if you just output regular graphics card He no work. And so that's why we went with the 20 series card It supports VR link through this type-c connector here. Perfect. Native output just type-c to type-c cable of course that only handles One of our displays and two of them are still going to use these We chose a motherboard with a type-c output Cloning the display across your dedicated GPU and your integrated but realistically they're gonna be playing what? Yeah, Ultimate Chicken Horse, it should be okay as for the final Which is fantastic not so fantastic. It also has power because no USB type-c So we have to figure out how to run that through here somehow. I Sorry, what those come off? Yeah. Oh To put power through it. Yeah Okay And are they gonna go back on these will go back on great what Okay, darling, so you see where we've got these cables from last So what we're gonna do instead is we're gonna run these cables down So we got to take all of this off and then so you got to find those Oh, you know what would be really smart though hold on hold on if You know what we would do is we would tape the new cable to the old We're gonna feed our new cable right in think you can do that. Are Okay, let's get you some tape Okay now go find the bottom of this one and start yanking on it nice perfect now you just got to take that tape off good job or what no we can use it to keep pulling let's go all the way to the if we can find it here this is the one we want so you got to pull and I'm gonna help feed it through okay oh whoa hold on wait did we end yet oh that is not quite long enough hey Alex yeah are these intended to be long enough to reach up to the headrests? Uh which ones? These type-C's. I think so. Justin says he doesn't have longer type-C's for the front seats. My solution to that, oh no, was to have this Oh, oh. So you can go from traditional display port to display port alt mode but what you need is an active adapter and this is one of the little VR port boxes that comes with Barrio? Barjo? High-end really nice professional VR headsets. It's a little less clean than the direct USB-C run that we had intended and it means there was no reason to use a 20 series Nvidia card anymore but hey at least it means we're not up the creek without a paddle, right kids? What? Since we're going to be playing around where some side curtain airbags are we're just not going to take any risks so battery is getting disconnected right here and then we don't have to worry about uh those airbags exploding in our faces. You're welcome. fortunately the built-in cables just barely reach where our front cable gets to and just barely reach the back of the computer so what we need to so that it doesn't move. All right do you want to break your parents' van? Yeah. Most of car interior work is just pulling on things and hoping that the little plastic clips on the inside don't break, so uh do you want to just pull on this as hard as you can and it'll probably come off. Yeah there we go. There we go. That escalated quickly. Yeah he pulled it off. Okay. All right we've got our two boxes now we just need to decide where the optimal place is to mount them so that we can reach them with our cables from the front. Let's go figure out where those cables are gonna land. Why can't we just drill a big square over here? Oh we will but we need to get the wire up and in so it's nice and tidy. Are you guys thinking like we can just fish it through? Yeah. Oh well that'll be fine then right? Yeah. Oh well why were you freaking me out about the fabric at the top? Because we just need to take it out a little bit Oh I see. Yeah. Okay why don't we run another one of these cables okay? Okay. You got it? Yeah. Keep going, keep going. Okay that's good. Okay let's see how much slack we've got. Once again we have just barely enough room. We're gonna mount this I don't know here or something and then these are just gonna make their way around to the back of the PC. Perfect. Just like we planned. What are those? These are the brackets that hold it down so that way when you guys are driving and hitting bumps and stuff like that the computer doesn't go flying around so these here are 3D printed brackets they are printed at 100% fill in PTG so it should be nice and strong, it shouldn't go anywhere. While she's installing the computer sort of uh let's talk about the specs. We went with something pretty mid-range it's a Ryzen 5 5600 so this is last gen Ryzen. 16 gigs of T-Force memory a P5 SSD, and okay the motherboard's a little high-end it's an x570 board from Asus but that's just because we had that kicking around. The reality of it is we don't want anything that's going to draw a ton of power or kick out a ton of heat because once we have the top cover on here it's a pretty confined space. That was one of the justifications This is a cool addition though. This was actually created by a CosmicGoo.com and it's a little IR receiver that can be used with pretty remote to turn a PC on and off. So we're going to be giving it a try. Wait IR, how's that going to be that useful inside the trunk of a car? Well, we're gonna have to have it running outside the car It does come with some pretty long wires as it is But we might have to go a little bit longer and maybe stick it to On the inside of the car not the outside. I see Okay, I do wonder if at that point it might have been easier for us But okay, you know what we're shouting out mark Z and if the blame mark Z This is the mounting plate for the middle monitor and it is sharp deburring tool Linus's kid gets to learn how to use one He didn't give consent One thing you might think would be smart would be wearing gloves That's a really bad idea if you touch your hand against it Maybe you have a bit of a bad hour you have to put on a bandaid if You're you're having a bad month or so Why is that there? That is there, so that we can take this little adapter box and go anywhere. What's this? This is a wireless router. What does it do? Well, it does a couple of things. In our application, it's going to take the 4G puck that we have, distribute networking to everything that needs it. What's the 4G puck? That's going to give us internet when we're in the car. We had What's Starlink? It's like satellite internet that you can have anywhere, but they didn't have the new like really small one that they have So we're just going to use a 4G puck. What does that do? That does... oh, it apparently is a button. I have no idea. Maybe This is the chonkiest puck I think I've ever seen. We're not going to need that MSI thing in there anymore. We could just run a little switch off of this thing. Okay, perfect. Never mind, that's going to go. So we can take that out. If I'm honest, I don't know how I feel about having a kid just put an open knife through the roof of a car. But that's what Linus said to do. So... It's all about how you feel. Yeah. I just, like, poke it? Yeah. There we go, nice. Oh, there we go, heck yeah. I did it. We can see the B pillar right there, we are golden. I scratched this part. That's fine, no one's gonna see it. Oh, wow, what a mostly even hole you've cut. It's okay, it's gonna get much bigger. That was just to see what's on the go. Mr. Justin, I may have a task that you're uniquely qualified for. This doesn't use keyhole mounts like our magnetic cable management would like for it to use, but it does have these little slide-in. Feet things. How hard would it be to make a mount for that? It's not. Okay, I'll get on it. May I has mm-hmm. Let's do it. Okay. I'll Perfect this looks great, but is there a reason we used double- Yes, because if I went with the right thickness of material that Oh the little feet stick out, and then you got a big bump right and It would be so flimsy anyway. Yeah All right, let's screw this I'm gonna put this kind of Right here because I'm thinking the closer I can get these antennas Rather than the metal chassis of the vehicle the better, so I'm They are antennas okay keep going a little more a little more okay yeah that's good good job all right awesome this for getting stuff through confined little areas you just zip tie a and then add some tesla tape so it gets through kind of easily it'll probably work just fine all right I'm going to try and fish it in there when it starts showing up assuming it does. Heck yeah there we go. Pretty big moment now, I've got the power adapter for our second VR box so I'm just going to go ahead and get this plugged in which means all we've got to do is flip the switch oh sure you have an IR emitter on your phone red magic 9 has one wow okay and what i just press the power button yep that is awesome means you two girls can go plug those monitors into the front and to them go for it as cool as our programmable IR button is though i leaning toward is just Extending these two wires that are coming off of the power button I I don't have a blaster on my phone and I don't have any obvious Of mirrors to yeah, like a Zelda, Zelda dungeon it Okay, cool. So can we do that? Yeah, okay Do you guys see a computer it says 12% 12% Oh, no, yeah. Yeah. That's all we care about it just turned off Yeah, it's at zero percent. Oh, okay. Let's power this on Okay, it's powered on republic of gamers. Yeah, I know Hey, look at that. We've got both of them now. Excellent We definitely should have done all of the cutting before throwing look how bad of a job you did last time. No it's gonna look so good. We just rip it oh there we go yay hey all right put the blade away. There's holes in the slots that I wanted for there to be not holes so we can drill holes. Keen observation. I'm getting griefed by children. How are we feeling about right there? Do we have any way of telling if it wait Alex that's not centered you know that right? Alex! We can move it over a bit. Okay. right there. okay. you want to hold it? I'm gonna try okay I'm gonna be so tough oh I thought you said it was great and super that it's not right now I mean I'm not saying anything do you want yeah perfect where do I drill it you are determining right now whether this will be centered or not and you can't even put your glasses on upside right a little bit more All right, we didn't go through that's great Time to pick where you want it. Oh, okay. Well, let's go find a spot I'm gonna regret it if it isn't somewhere where the kids can reach Let's just put it up here on the floor It's whatever you do don't fart Alex. I really wish I had one So it's Very important that this goes in straight here. I'll do the one It's fine. Yeah Three was already kind of the minimum my son. What could go wrong? The tap could break He could strip it. rhetorical question Alex. Could go in sideways. rhetorical question. I think he might have Oh what okay sure great he did it. Of course something went wrong. Is it off Justin? It is off. Okay then it works. Alright it's just Shouldn't we use a screwdriver for that? Uh, yes. Oh, what did Alex? Oh, it's both of you now. The safety glasses are on wrong. Unbelievable. Okay, here we go so The HDMI input is just on the side? Yeah. Why? So if I don't misunderstand this then all this crap just sits up there. Yep Okay, no one's gonna see it. Yeah, we'll just kind of stuff it in This is gonna be really hard to line up. I believe in you Alex. Is I think it's long enough. It's gonna be hard to hit Wait, did we nail it? Hard to say. Let go? No. Nope. Not even. Oh, wow. We know we were super close. I might be right there. That sounded promising. Yeah. I'm letting go. It's not coming down. Whoa! I think we got it. I think we got it. How's that looking? I mean. Good enough? It's as good as it's going to be because it's into a plate that's Well, but we can like lightly move the plate. Oh, I see. Check this out. Big moment, guys. Peel's coming off. Whoa! Professional, buddy! Only took two tries. All right. Not bad. Not bad! That looks sick. Can't even tell there's a big ugly HDMI cable sticking out of the That is legitimately kind of cool though, because it means that at a moment's notice, you can just plug anything you want into it. Yeah, kind of cool. Like if someone's sitting there with a Switch OLED or something and they want to just share their screen, connect another controller for a second player, boom, you just keep playing on your handheld and there you go. You can get the whole van playing, like six kids all playing Smash Brothers. You totally could. All right, let's put the car back together. Yeah, I should test if Okay, we got internet. Let's check Google Chrome Sure web store. Hey nice Okay, we've got internet and one display Progress. Yay, Andrew. What do you think are the odds this just works? 80? Oh, come on, man. Doing a quick test run with them just twisted Is that screen going to turn on? Let's find out. And, uh-oh. That remote. I mean, the light's not on, though. Oh, the light's not on. it wrong. No, you did that right. Uh-oh. Alex, did you tie the Any time for some tribulation? Four volts. That's bad. That is yeah, I got it. Do you want to see if you can grab the cable think we just didn't get the Wegos on properly? That's my vote. I'm Justin says power supply. I say Wegos. You got any guesses? I can see the problem already. What? The accessory wire isn't wired Oh, what's this? ACC? Yeah, so you need both, uh, yeah, VCC and accessory hook-ins. Oh, okay. Well, that's good. That was a relatively quick fix. Oh, Von, come around the other Yeah, she just told me. What? What do you mean she just told you? Look at her drawing, her puzzle drawing. Yeah? I didn't know that you guys were putting one in, but... Well, we are. Oh, wait! You're upset about the hole in the roof. Oh, well, you'll never see it, because this will be there. Last time, when you guys worked on the car, I was driving, and the Stopped working. There was no more power. Yeah, very dangerous. No, are you sure? Oh, yeah That wasn't me also. That was someone a BMW enthusiast In all honesty, if you weren't trying to make a video and have your You could probably do an install of one of these in Couple hours I'd say maybe an hour really okay, but I'm I'm Yeah, I came up with how long I thought it would take and then I Yeah, two hours. I mean you've read the YouTube comments I'm no offense some of you are could probably do it in an hour just But a lot more probably think they could do it. Yeah. Oh, yeah Hey Look at that That's okay, we can fix that Wow that image quality is not great. She has the bigger screen though But it's farther away Also, I don't think it's bigger Okay, let's put the third screen on shall we yeah, all right. Oh Here's the remains of that micro HDMI cable Goes like everything else in this car. Hey, hey, hey, come on. Can you not triplicate a display? Is that not a thing? Okay. So how You click set up multiple displays. And then you right click on the display you want to duplicate. And then select &quot;Clone with&quot;. Uh-huh that was unnecessarily complicated. Agreed but yes you did it got it heck yeah all right hey you guys want to try alex do you want to help me guide this bad boy in for the last-ish look at that it looks all proper-ish professional sort of yeah Wow, this whole setup is actually drawing less power than this late We're around 170 watts output and we're at around 200 watts input the end result is actually oh, yeah, really good. I mean it looks sick. It legitimately does and it has way more flexibility than we're Okay, we do have the ability now that we have those little adapter Up to three computers in without any difficulties but Hey, they can play games together. It wouldn't kill them. They're And I love telling you about our sponsor War Thunder now you too can blow a tank to smithereens In a video game War Thunder features immersive player versus player 2,000 vehicles to the point where every single war machine is pilot some of the most famous tanks planes and ships from multiple Intimidating war thunder has game modes to make starting as a There's built-in tools like the damage x-ray view that will let you Strategize after each round war thunder is available on PC Mac PlayStation and Xbox and you can start playing for free right now Just click our link below and you can get started right now If you guys enjoyed this video you might enjoy the one where we Frickin' Shahrad. Okay, look at his wheels. Have you seen his new He needs the stickers. He needs the donut for them. Eww. Or you can check out Shahrad's AMD Ultimate Tech upgrade. Tasteful.