Hi its Tod of Tods Workshop and Tod Cutler but it's going to be slightly different today Hit putting together a video for them and we're we're doing is we're looking about at the role Now the trebuchet was not really an open the thing is though it was used on sieges at against fortifications. So we're basically going at fortifications and we're going to see who wins teams today I'm working with Louis, Luke is what happens. So what we got with the trebuchet crenellations on a castle it's just going to go side is going to be devastating and this ball is it'll take out one guy, maybe two of them, maybe channel you'll know I'll probably completely miss so it's all a bit of a game, it's all a little bit uh 25 points, his bodyguard going at 10 points What do I think is going to happen? Well I think because we know it just doesn't work for but let's go find out. How do you rate our a few things going on, but basically ours are much a lot of wind today and so when they do hit, they that accurate, it's against fortifications it's trying to do today, really I mean if we get one especially if it lands on the right part. So if just go through if we hit on the edge where the a whole load of pallets out there and that'll take I think I think so. And how do you feel going up it? It is, but you should have more control. But I reckon I've got a pretty good chance of yeah definitely yeah. What about the king? Sniping day. Yeah can you try and recreate that for of me getting it, I reckon I can. Yep so this is times this draw weight, so because it's a high diameter tapered down to 3/8&quot;, a big nasty head, how long did it take to really get used to that since I was 13/14 so I'm 36 now so a long time. So accurately yeah at least five years. Five years? so yeah it made people uh just focus on this. Yes know if you don't do it you can't do it. Well I've how we do. Cheers. Right Tod let's get ready for well it's not instant, I'll tell you that. Okay charge it up yeah and there's half a ton there thing is that we've got to start pulling this rope and that has got to go all the way down so goes in and you can do as much of this as you so you do this for about the next five minutes just I'll just talk you through, one more yeah, so really it needs some. Yeah and you pull back and sure that the ratchet there binds. Got it. Okay in there. That's it, that's it, but it comes. It does and for one or two winches like this this hour after hour you are gonna get very tired manpower. Labour, it was never a problem in know there would be rounds of men doing this. have been transported to the battlefield? I mean this machine is relatively small, so these timbers up, that's an 18 meter timber. Yeah you massively long, massively heavy timbers that Those are difficult things to move around the that the trigger system, the winch system, the all of those big bits of iron work that are but actually the main timbers which you can exactly how this is working, this arm is gradually and we need to just thank you for doing all now need to get this figure into position and we're in. So now in fact what we need to do is up the weight. Okay so I need you to push down on that's it. Now if you lift up that ratchet bar, slowly with your right hand yep, being aware that relax the right hand a little bit and let the arm trigger. So keep on coming you can see the that's it, that's it a bit more. Drop the ratchet bar back in now, you can now see how this trigger works. So what the ratchet, but you've got what's called a slip important because if that came down, there if you arm downward to get the trigger out and it would it ends up being a hair trigger, that tiny that curvature there exactly is a radius around bit of pull on here to overcome friction and the it looks simple, but it's really effective, yeah. weight, kind of yeah the pressure is cranked up. quite. Okay not quite, so safety, safety and they trigger system that may have come off a trebuchet Oh nice. Absolutely knew what it was all about. there, in the medieval period. So now obviously um is going to try and unwind the winch, it's take the pressure off that. So now so the trigger should hold. If it But now what we need to do is needs to get walked up to the top. So this basically just because of course you don't want it catching Exactly. I've now got to get into leaving the safety in place at the So this is quite a long string that our trebuchet it's the length of the arms this is this this piece of rope is, this sling, it's one of you a simple answer. Yeah I can't. The problem the angle of the arm comes down, the length of how far the trebuchet spindle is to the the weight of the projectile, all these things one of them and the performance of the change of the sling it will shoot a little bit flatter. Got I see. Yeah so the angle of that pin, the length So you can just hook that on there. As you so I'd rather you didn't get your head in, So now I'm just making sure that the sling is... we can now load up, remove the safety. Ready Right now, loading our first bowling ball, yes uh but the ball goes in. I'll do all this if you I'd love to. Then it shall be done. so I'm just making sure now that the lines are not good. I think is it not quite, I'm just going to just basically to create a little lump, stop safety off. So if you pick up the rope. Okay goes up in the air, keep an eye on it and then let's do it. All right fingers crossed, Oh I love it every single time, I love it! And then rolled and touched. I think they just moat. But you know what? I almost don't care footage, slowed my footage before and you can things like this okay and it actually releases little bit then that would help it go that don't change it on the day. So Joe that was was getting a bit worried there so they've got doesn't it? Who are you going to aim for general direction? I'm gonna aim for the had no warm-up shots or anything so I'm going Oh I heard a sound do you reckon you hit one but um I've definitely hit something. Now you've that bodes well for the next shot. Right Tod I'm heard it clank into something. It hit something with the trebuchet. We need one good one, come on So this time I've gone that fell short so I've so we're 300 grams lighter, I'm gonna see what yours again. Thank you very much. All right, shot I think that's the winds that's got to be the chaos of those variables I was talking about, so we're gonna need a bigger castle. You feeling it shouldn't affect them too much, it's such a catching the wind a great deal. So I'm just going when it is, so does the wind affect the trebuchet sort of veer off to the right a bit or should it more right okay a lot lighter but um it's hard to Right Tod. Third time lucky. It's gotta be it's So if you have a look so this is a little bit go a tiny bit further yeah but it's also cracked stones previously or something. I'm expecting some of these bits... You know it's cheating, on to take out some other chaps. Yeah what we midair but we probably can't do that right. Okay three. Right ready to go, shot three shot three. oh I love it every time I um stayed in one piece as well so everything ball didn't necessarily carry I think it's the help. I mean it's windy here but it's a lot it's going to affect Joe a lot more than it'll about this machine for months, that ball there is and it's that variability, every single shot accuracy it kind of goes down here but it doesn't like this. Ah frustrating isn't it? Let's go a lighter ball you'd expect it to go further, fact you can see here that's where it struck that's a little bit, because it's rolled on but not have gone through one of those pallets. Those down yeah and then shot one. Yeah well best of favourite, it's it's kind of sad that the momentum tapped the wall right rather than, rather than that point. We did I mean you know I've been doing love the shot. And the result?.... less exciting. arrow. So it's just gone a little bit too far and a bit of wind I may have just pulled it on the there would have been people around him we're up in this place. If you follow the the angle of know just literally coming over, so it would speaking of the King, now when I came over here I thought this has got to be really, really close You can see right here, I believe oh yes you've that's the only one that it could have been, noise. As fresh target as well, so fresh target, sniped him. Yeah 25 points. So I'm just 30 centimeters, a foot and that should make them come on then Jenny let's yeah if you start to the end cords through the weave of the rope. It's but it weakens the rope in fact, but the which is significant, but much less than the Sailors on the other hand will be looking at There is a danger as that ball comes through now because everything's changed now. Clearances so we'll go to the end of the rope this time. just for the change just for the change in, gonna pull it this time. No problem. It just feels great every yes! Is that... that's a hit, that's a hit! The first time ever. Right Joe, pressure's on. only five points though so not too much little bit wet now there's been some rain in the affect anything? Oh it just makes it a little it should be all right. Nothing on you man, yeah Right Joe for entertainment purposes, we're going their final shot. Now I'm getting a bit worried, the game okay? Yeah that's that that's it so uh just gonna do the same as before same as before they've had a bit of a change of tactic here. But their tactics. Ah that's it okay we're in their They're looking worried over there. it's time for our dramatic final shot, we've got Everything. Right no what we got to do and it we get the King or if we get King or one of the in. Honing in on that red pallet. Yeah so a little the last one the range was brilliant, range was exactly what we wanted. The line wasn't quite is it. Okay this is going to be a big moment for nice Oh lovely that's good, go Listen Todd that was, we've hit their castle this thing it's a pretty good day out. Right historical importance today but we've certainly I was very, very surprised that you managed to with the trebuchet, I mean you were getting bit extra even with that adjustment I think It was good, I mean the adjustment was definitely it did take it a little bit further, but little bit more actually on that and make the that we have learned is, we didn't see the you know that seven kilos dropping from 40 meters So you can see that Joe's weapon is an individual this thing is shot by a crew of men at a bunch of it. He has accuracy, we clearly didn't. something. That's true and and the other in my dreams. Reality, not so good. That's a very first shot without any practice managed to shows a combination of this weapon and archers. because people don't realise... I'm begging you up I'm telling you now, Joe did not do a single test he's shot and he put it through the guy's head. shot they actually would and I'll tell you what Let's forget about that video. Joe is that It's a good shot, I don't say the best shot, that's a hole in one. Right well cheers Tod, thank thank you, and Joe thank you very much. Cheers. All right so we're here, this is our final it's just a bit of adjustment. I mean it looks there they're both against the wall, they're length on the sling and we would have been coming at all, I mean we've knocked, we've knocked the but I wouldn't show off too much about that, I there. Let's have a look at our our sort of piece actually got yeah and when we took the ball but I mean it seems like it's it's hit the pallet ah red mark! So we did hit him. I guess we hit break your knee. Definitely. He's he's taken not quite enough to win the game, but yeah but and the first for your trebuchet. Yeah sorry I is the first, yeah. So I've hit these guys with plumbata and all sorts This is the first of me you need Tod is just loads more of these guys and I think they're cheating, but one day I will, through there. Yeah unfortunately King cam ball coming towards him, but never mind, one a thanks to Louis and Luke and Joe here for, well but this was just an extraordinary shot from 140 yards basically through the guy's face. Now you shoot the King on a battlefield, morale first shot of the day, a battle winning and the arrow shooting. Obviously the arrows are trebuchet much more crew served and crew received much bigger. Again my trebuchet fails to hit not the machine, it's not the technology, it's the but there we are arrows, fantastically accurate. just not demonstrated this day. Anyway