Transcriber: Take A Mile When I was 21 years old, which is typical for those of us and I had many reasons why this is going to be the case for me And I was very confident of this, because I had no natural talent, I had a very bad memory, I couldn't travel to the country yet, I was too old, I felt too old and I was sure that I was going to frustrate and embarrass myself. And on top of this, in school, I did really poorly with languages. So, I did actually get the opportunity after I graduated at university with a degree in Electronic Engineering, still only able to speak English, I moved to Spain. And I figured, this is it! this is going to solve my problems, living in the country. No! Six months later of living in Spain, I couldn't speak any Spanish. Now, a sensible person and gotten the point. I'm not very sensible though. So I figured if I change my approach and change my attitude, maybe I can change my language skills. And what happened to inspire me was I met a polyglot. A polyglot is someone And the first time you can't help Like, for instance and there's one video online Let me just show you a little clip here and you can see him: French, Estonian, Czech and Catalan which is pretty impressive. We also have Luca from Italy, and here you can hear him speak in: German and Portuguese. And we also have Susana, who goes through here: Italian Russian. And a very impressive video I saw once of this 16-year-old goes through 20 languages in one video, and in this part here Wolof, Yiddish, Hebrew, Arabic, Swahili and Hindi. So wow! I met someone like this I thought to myself, But the reason I wanted to be like that is because I wanted people to be impressed with me, and I met this polyglot and with this very superficial motivation, just because it will be cool I failed. So, what I discovered is one of the biggest problems but we don't know it, and that's motivation. A lot of us start with the wrong We are learning the language to improve our career prospects or, in my case, for superficial reasons And what I've found is that those polyglots the reason they're learning the language is because they're passionate They're passionate about and being able to read in a language and of course to use it with people. And when I changed that priority I was able to learn But there are a lot of things will not allow them to learn a language. So I want to go through... I think there's five, there's five major reasons So, let me go through some of these here. The first is they've No language gene or talent, well, what does that mean? I mean, sometimes this is actually In my case, when I had to learn or the six months it was just me telling myself, so there's no point Because I didn't put the work in I didn't learn the language, it's just a vicious circle, it's all in your head. There's no language gene, we all have it already. But let's just imagine because we see it in school, people advance faster So let's say there's some inborn trait to give somebody 20% advantage Good for them! But that doesn't mean that you can't, it just means that you have And I've found that, when I work harder, I can catch up and even overtake them. So, not having talent The next reason is that you are too old I certainly felt this myself because up to 21, and lots of us feel that children... their brains are hard wired But is it really neurology at play here or could it be the environment in which the child Well, a study at the actually found that adults are better language It's sound incredible it's about your motivation, it's about the enthusiasm you get from other people. And when you think of it, adults tend to be studying and doing boring exercises, while children are playing So I found that when I changed this not making it by studying the language, then I was much more successful. So you're not too old I've met people in their sixties and being successful with that. The next excuse people would have, is that they can't travel Now, maybe 20 years ago but nowadays Thanks to the internet, we can connect with native speakers and you'll see that in a lot of cases, they might want to learn your language, and then money is not even an issue, because you teach them a little But even forgetting the internet a lot of us live in cities or towns that are more international and when I was travelling in America, I made it to Columbus, Ohio, to meet this very interesting polyglot and he does what he likes where he'll go to some public place and just see if he can find and practice the language with them. And I joined him when and the two of us managed and just here in this clip you can see Cantonese, and here's Cambodian, and you can see that the guy So, you can learn a language anywhere, and I wanted to push this to the limit, in my most recent project of all places, to learn Egyptian Arabic. And I succeeded, because even though I got on Skype and I talked for one or two hours a day and I managed So no! not being able to travel to the country The next one people might give is that they've got bad memory And this was certainly what I felt because when I first I get a big list of words, I tried to go through them and I forget them very quickly. But research on memory capacity has found that it's better when you revise these words and there's this technique called &quot;Spaced repetition&quot;, where you revise the word just before you'll forget it. And it looks something like the red line is what typically happens when you first see a word but to get it into your head then just review it to make sure it goes, like review it one day later, and then a month later. And there are apps in your Smartphone and there's free programs that help you time all of this. And that's great but you can learn the words faster and better if you combine this with an image association technique. So, for instance, let's say that the Spanish word for Well, what if I imagine then that's barely possible &quot;Cab-bear&quot; it's &quot;caber&quot;, it's &quot;to fit&quot;. So you do this for a lot of words and it actually gets and you can learn vocabulary instantly. So no, having a bad memory Next, and I think the most important one that the people always say, is that they're going And this is just so not true. I've been to many places, and every time they're overjoyed, they're so pleased that I'm even trying! And I just feel like, especially adults, when we learn a language, we want everything to be just right, and perfectionism is a really because a language it's a way to get to know and when you embrace this, it's okay to make mistakes! And I actually have a goal because then I know I'm using the language! So embarrass yourself, go out there, talk to people it's okay. When do you think here? or here? (Laughter) So, anyone can indeed learn a language when you use it with people, and it's okay to use it early, And this is so important, that you don't have to wait until you speak the language perfectly You can get into it and it opens up so many doors So for instance, after I'd learned that Arabic in Brazil, I made it to Egypt and I made all the way deep I sat down in the sand with an Egyptian and we had some tea, we had this nice little chat here: (In Arabic) (In Arabic) and there I'm just saying that Egypt is so much, so vast, so great, it's so much more And, now when I was speaking with him, I used the wrong word here and there and I conjugated the wrong verb but that's okay, because even with I had this fascinating And I've done this with and I even managed to learn And here you can see why I didn't learn Irish sign language, and I said, because when I'm in Ireland I like to improve my Irish which I can then speak here: (In Irish) so that was me on Irish radio saying about my travels and whatever, and I learned Irish and I wasn't able to say But as an adult, I went back to Ireland and I embraced using And that helped me to reach this stage. And it's okay to be a beginner, it's okay to be conversational, but when you take this on, you take it to the next level, then you can reach very well. I mean, I've got Spanish and acouple of languages. I've worked as a professional translator like here I'm having a chat in French: (In French) and that's great, when they're getting they think, &quot;That's what I want to be, I want to be at this have deep philosophical conversations.&quot; and that's fantastic and yeah, it's impressive But rather than be impressive, I think it's so much better when you embrace the beginning stage And one of the most was when I was in China, on the train, at 2000 kilometers deep into China, and I had a basic conversation and it turns out there on the train, and look, this is how it went: (In Chinese) &quot;What's your name?&quot; &quot;I'm Benny.&quot; (In Chinese) &quot;I don't have a Chinese name.&quot; and then (unclear), says, because this sounds and it means ability or skill. And you know, just, I can have that conversation, even with a basic conversation And I do have the ability, I do have the skill to learn a language. But I always did, we all always do. And the reason I have this skill is not because I was born it's a decision I made. And the problem a lot of us face is that we feel that and preparing for speaking because if we do it too early the world will end we cause people. There are seven days in a week and some day is not one of them. I say, rather than see a whole new world will begin So I hope you'll give it a try. Thank you. (Applause)