If you were to ask me, "What is your favorite I would have DS. But Hollow Knight would be a close second. Hollow Knight was released on February 24th, based in the mythical land of Adelaide, South Over the past three years, Hollow Knight has The game has sold over three and a half million There's a Hollow Knight book, a line of warheads, and even vinyl records for all you Team Cherry had one goal when making Hollow They wanted to create a world that allowed We can see this desire in Hollow Knight's The levels in Hollow Knight are massive, with cranny, be that powerful charms, special abilities The game's navigation system requires the to make a stronger mental image of the world Christopher Larkin's score and Ari Gibson's atmosphere that the player won't want to But there's one aspect of Hollow Knight world building. When Super Metroid launched in 1994, it stood Now in 1994, I was busy not being alive, but to know that this game was a big deal. In case you didn't know, Super Metroid is That's why they're called "MetroidVANIAs". Now in Super Metroid, there are moments that Basically the feeling that this world exists In the room right before that diabetic crocodile soldier. His inclusion here doesn't change the gameplay of wonder about the world they are exploring. Who was this guy? Why was he here in the first place? Did he like jazz? Now finding dead bodies and other random garbage Well, Hollow Knight basically does the same About a dozen times. Through its world building, Hollow Knight You can sense the ancient history of the land giant barred doors. Nothing feels like it was put into the game Except those reasons aren't the easiest Hollow Knight's narrative is buried under lore tablets, and even additional content Journal. These past three years have seen an insane to make sense of Team Cherry's sprawling We've even made it to the point where people decipher Hallownest's logographic language. In this video, I hope to give you a long and exploring Hallownest's history and uncertain When I'm not busy making surprisingly accurate or insightful podcasts about beloved subjects or whatever this was supposed to be, I'm And while I am a seasoned Hollow Knight lore or theory presented in this video is completely I highly recommend checking out the lore section neutral explanation of Hollow Knight's lore. But if you're too lazy to read, then I suggest or just grab a block of cheese from the fridge, Knight. It's a simple fact of life that every human or in rare cases, God. As it turns out, the bugs in Hallownest pretty From the mosskin born from the dream of a Civilization who literally worshipped the worship in the world of Hollow Knight. Our story begins with a creature very much carcass of a Wyrm. The carcass can still be found in the Kingdom's Wyrms actually looked like. At the time Hollow Knight occurs, it is suggested They were incredibly long creatures that featured Another, more mysterious property of Wyrms or foresight. Basically, they could see the future to some It isn't clear how effective this ability Considering how the entire race went extinct, shit. Getting back to this particular Wyrm carcass, the distant mountains and wastelands beyond Once it arrived in Hallownest, the Wyrm died. Except not really. Inside the maw of the carcass sits a pale, of Wyrm, a being of meager shell. This form of the Wyrm is usually referred basically responsible for everything that The Pale King is a higher being, a type of His body was said to shine with a radiant him. The ultimate goal of the Pale King seemed A line from the cryptic Mister Mushroom reads: ...Wyrms pull bugs into their thrall, In other words, it's just in their nature. Dogs wag their tails, cats bury their shit, their service in order to form long standing And here in a far corner of the world, the self and began to build his eternal kingdom, There's just one slight problem. There's like... people already living there. The area that would eventually become Hallownest spiders, mushrooms, and bush cosplayers. Each of these groups were already operating each group had a different interaction with One of the more receptive groups to the arrival Fungal Wastes. These creatures were able to communicate with The mushrooms viewed this shared mind as a about it. Ultimately, the mushrooms wearly accepted as a shield to the dangers of the future. Another group living in the Fungal Wastes The mantises have a rich cultural history Hallownest. The mantises are a proud tribe, believing strength. The mantises are fiercely territorial but power. These Fight Club enthusiasts were lead by kinda sat around waiting for outsiders to The Mantis Tribe had no interest in the Pale did come to a truce. In exchange for their independence from Hallownest, from invading Hallownest. Not sure why they didn't just go out the I'm not an expert on border patrol. I don't work at ICE anymore. Let's move on to Deepnest. Now many of the different tribes of Hallownest detailing pretty much everything we need to Unfortunately the bugs of Deepnest didn't We know that the spiders of Deepnest had a Those are always good, right? Also within Deepnest are a separate group some point in the past. This group was known as the Weavers, and they within Deepnest. They used looms of silk to weave stories, One thing we know for sure about Deepnest to do with Hallownest. The struggles of Deepnest-Hallownest relations on, but for right now, it seems like the two Another section of pre-Hallownest includes Now as far as we can tell, the Mushrooms, worship any Higher Beings. There is this giant mushroom corpse in the Higher Being. I mean, who the hell would want to worship Fatass slugs? Now that's dope. The land we know as Greenpath was created Unn used her great mind to dream the vegetation Unn's followers, the Mosskin, were also creator. Greenpath at its heigth was actually much At one point, Greenpath stretched into both Fog Canyon. Greenpath's citizens showed themselves to They built a temple at the Lake of Unn in own line of defense, with Moss Knights showing as weapons. The Law of Unn continued to remain in effect like they allowed the King to establish a to the Heart of Hallownest, hence the name Yeah, Team Cherry really racked their brains Next we have the Bees. And while there is no lore on how these bees can ignore all known laws of aviation, we These bugs decided to seal their hive off bees being able to enter and exit the Hive. So yeah, the bees are pretty much pointless And finally, we have the moth tribe. In game, the only moth settlement is the Resting the Crystal Peak at one point. Now as we all know, moths in real life are As for moths in Hollow Knight, well... it's The moth race is described as being a rather take up a weapon. During the Pale King's reign, the moth race the importance of remembering those who have themselves. Similar to the Mosskin, the Moth Tribe was The Radiance is described as being a light So she was basically a giant lamp to them. Another important aspect about the Radiance as Essence. Essence are the remnants of wishes and dreams, catcher particle effects. Essence can take the form of Whispering Roots memories taking root in the world. The Radiance appears to be a creature made Being to give off Essence. Unn has green particles, the Pale King has Grimm gives off fiery red particles. However, the Radiance appears to be the main gods also dabble in the Dream Realm. Getting back to the Moth Tribe, it is their to discuss. Basically, the moths turned their backs on the new light that had appeared, the Pale So yeah, moths are assholes in this game too. With her tribe forsaking her, the Radiance past, and a thing that's definitely not And so the Pale King's new kingdom was established: But there is one aspect of Hallownest that Unfortunately, to better understand this, In wilds beyond they speak your name with For none could tame our savage souls yet you Under palest watch, you taught, we changed, A world you gave to bug and beast as they This is from a poem titled Elegy for Hallownest The poem appears at the beginning of every and his kingdom offered. Much of the land outside of Hallownest appears of instinct without the burden of mind. Hallownest somehow taught these bugs and tamed Basically the Pale King changed the instincts To get a better picture of this, let's look These adorable panda bug things give us a While both appear to be the same species of to string together words, while Tuk speaks The main difference between these two characters Tuk lives beneath the city's capital. Basically, it appears as though Hallownest of those who dwell within. The Pale King established a path, starting Pass, winding through Greenpath and the Fungal capital at Hallownest's Heart. We now know the capital city as the City of name. The rain that falls down onto the city from the kingdom collapsed. So unless the capital was originally named City of Tears wouldn't have made much sense. The King's motivation for all this appears The citizens of Hallownest believed that the in it. Shrines to the King can be found scattered were created and distributed to followers Despite the worship, the Pale King often kept to hide his blemishes. I mean, if you look at the size of the real the man is clearly overcompensating. The Pale King's White Palace was also built subjects even moreso. At the same time, the certain powers became for sure if the Pale King had anything to Lifeblood is a blue liquidy substance that However, the use of lifeblood was seen as as heretics. The use of soul for combat was also shunned. Soul is a sort of lifeforce in Hollow Knight But some characters are able to control the But aside from a few exceptions, no citizens However, the Pale King didn't rule Hallownest There was another Higher Being in the mix, The White Lady is this weird root-like being Gardens. She is encased inside a strange cocoon, and With as much exposition we get for the Pale Lady. But one thing we do know is she likes to breed... The White Lady would often retreat to the by the Mosskin. How exactly she walked around and actually even my expertise. The White Lady is also known as a Pale being, What exactly are Pale Beings? Well, we don't really know for sure, but Beings as being even more powerful. I know that's a little confusing, so let's I'd say that regular higher beings are like Gigabit Router while Pale Beings are like Wifi Router. Under the Pale King, Hallownest underwent He ordered the construction of the stagways, goods. The Forgotten Crossroads and the storerooms goods that traveled along these stagways. The King also ordered the construction of from the threat of automation. A tram was built between the Forgotten Crossroads A second tram was built from the Kingdom's And then a third tram was started in Deepnest Not sure how useful that would have been to The Pale King's a smart guy, I'm not gonna But anyway, the Pale King's super smart getting a few of his tram workers killed. The bugs of Deepnest rejected the Pale King's further cementing the poor relations shared Aside from convenient fast travel, regular the kingdom. From this was born probably one of the most even all of fiction. An elusive guild of bugs simply known as menderbugs throughout Hallownest. From the journal entry of one Menderbug, we unknowable minds. Dear Dear Diary, Fixing signs, mending posts, let them break I'm a better mender for all that repairing. I sometimes doubt there's a single bug in Another example of the Pale King's expanding This area is filled with crystals that grow shells of certain bugs. These crystals were considered valuable to scale mining efforts. We don't actually see the crystals used said to be able to contain a sort of energy. The crystals are also said to sing if you A strange angelic singing In terms of military, Hallownest's first known as the Five Great Knights. The members of this esteemed coalition were For being so important, most of the information Ogrim is the Knight we know most about, since the events of the game. Ogrim expressed a great amount of loyalty going on with Isma. But we really don't know. Hegemol was known for his sense of humor and But at the same time, he was also dummy thicc. Mysterious Ze'mer arrived in Hallownest of delicate flowers. At some point, she also got into a relationship daughter of one of the Mantis Lords. So yeah, it seems like some of these Great All we really know about Dryya is that she As for Isma, she was described as being kind. She also appears to be some kind of weird on where she's from or what her powers were. The Five Great Knights played an important Grove, and the Battle of the Blackwyrm. We have no idea what these events were or cool nonetheless. During Hallownest's reign, there was another from the Pale King's rule. Carved out of the corpse of an ancient bug, constructed, and it was a destination for The sole purpose for fighting in the Colosseum figure known as the Lord Fool overseeing the We don't know when the Colosseum was constructed, of his servants, the Pale Lurker, became a the Pale King's approval. Finally, there was the Royal Waterways, where out into the Fungal Wastes. This area saw the rise of a species of parasite-like The Flukes spawn from the Flukemarm, a giant live. There really isn't too much lore involved that Flukemarm is canonicall a MILF. Like, that's not even debatable. The sky is blue, 2 + 2 = 4, and we all want And so this was the Kingdom of Hallownest Hallownest was a vast kingdom connected by The bugs of Hallownest mourned their dead using Geo, the de facto currency of the region, of the kingdom. The Pale King had succeeded in crafting a are pitfalls to living in a society. As the suspiciously knowledgeable Hunter points a population of weak and pathetic creatures. The bugs of Hallownest did not hunt for their comfort. This is even more obvious with the east wing These greedy members of Hallownest's high with riches and plumb from excess wealth. The bugs living in Hallownest's prime looked they once were. Their savagery had been replaced with intelligence Pale King the devotion and service he desired. And while there were a few snags along the and his subjects. Resting at the threshold of Hallownest is to be the last and only civilization. It calls Hallownest an eternal kingdom. This appears to have been the Pale King's world as a final beacon for civilization. And that was the Pale King's ultimate folly. To think that he could succeed where so many Long before the Pale Kings or the Berry Bensons by an ancient caste. Hints of Hallownest's history are littered examples being the soul totems and arcane One sect of these ancient bugs didn't worship instead a dark and mysterious substance known This Ancient Caste once also tried to lay they too failed. In his quest to conquer all of Hallownest, long forgotten, an enemy that was about to I mentioned earlier that the Moth Tribe entirely the Pale King. But that isn't quite true. Memories of her still lingered, and hushed At the summit of the Crystal Peak, a location of glyphs can be found. Joining these glyphs is a statue of the Radiance, This old summit is the sole standing shrine This was built in order to keep the memory The Radiance's light began to appear in This light manifested itself in an infection Those infected would fall into a deep sleep Some of the lesser bugs tried to resist the them being consumed by it even moreso. Many infected bugs lost their wills and began The infection also twisted the bodies of its develop orange cysts on their bodies. For many victims, they were reverted back duties they once fulfilled in life, but now Those caught up in the infection were linked to control their bodies if needed. As the infection spread across Hallownest, the Radiance's light. The gates to the City of Tears were closed the city. The stagways were also shut down at some point, But some took more proactive efforts against The scholars of the Soul Sanctum decided to fight the infection. This resulted in the deaths of hundreds of into the bodies of the scholars. Their goal was to achieve some kind of pure plagues of the mind. The scholars' leader, the Soul Master, was his entire sect failed to avoid infection. But hey, at least they took as many innocent The Mantis Tribe, showing a stronger will the infection. However, one of the four Mantis Lords turned He and his followers took in the infection courage. At some point during all this, The Traitor Mantis Village, eventually taking up residence The Traitor Lord's daughter ended up dying This is the same mantis that was in a relationship But the mantises rejected their union because As a Gamer, this type of prejudice is all With the Five Great Knights completely useless devised his own scheme: a scheme involving As I mentioned earlier, the Pale King's Ancient Basin, but his castle wasn't the At the bottom of the Ancient Basin was the Within the Abyss was a lake composed of Void. The Pale King realized that this Void could of such deep within the Abyss, possibly left Hallownest. The Pale King devised a workshop in his palace with soul, creating servants known as Kingsmoulds These Void creatures were somehow imprinted they would serve him. It isn't clear when the Pale King started There is evidence to imply that even common is, the Pale King turned to the Void in order One that he believed could contain the Radiance He tried to create a pure Vessel. The Radiance's infection needs its host it. A pure Vessel would be a creature made of The Pale King believed that by harnessing able to stop the infection and keep Hallownest But his method for creating this so-called This is where the White Lady and her King These two Higher Beings engaged in a union several eggs that were dropped down into the There, the Void seeped into these eggs, corrupting This act resulted in the creation of the Vessels. The Vessels are not technically considered They are shells created from the Pale King Void. Within each Vessel is a shade, a completely Vessels are also non-gendered. I guess because they're dead or something. I'm not sure if that's how that works I'm not an expert on these kinds of things. I don't work at ICE anymore Thousands of Vessels were created during this Vessel. This particular Vessel chosen by the Pale taken away to the White Palace. But I want to take a bit of a closer look There are a number of questions and theories to dig into. The big question surrounding this moment is other vessel. One common theory is that the Pale King took evaluated them using his giant collection This theory is probably the least likely explanation. It kinda exists just to explain the buzzsaws, but doesn't really mesh with the Vessels How does being good at Super Meat Boy prove And while thinking about logistics in a game exactly did the Pale King transfer these thousands like the Dung Defender finding out? So this means that the Pale King probably Vessels out of the Abyss. So how did the Pale King make his evaluation? I think the best explanation comes from a GoldenFlowerFan. Basically, the Vessels were hatched down at to make it to the top was chosen by the Pale In a memory of this event, we see Vessels of the Abyss. Perhaps these Vessels weren't being cast to escape out of it. The lore tablet outside the Abyss appears It reads: Our pure Vessel has ascended. Beyond lies only the refuse and regret of We shall enter that place no longer. This tablet was likely written right after that is when the entrance to the Abyss was The tablet proclaims that the pure Vessel out of the Abyss. And while cut content should never be considered an earlier version of this tablet found in this. It read: "From below, our pure Vessel has But how does making it to the top of the Abyss a perfectly hollow Vessel? Well, I think this whole concept might just What if the Hollow Knight wasn't any different All Vessels were made in the exact same way The idea that the Hollow Knight was somehow the fact that there were so many Vessels created If they only needed one, then why create so I mean this is like Octomom on steroids. Well, these are bugs we're talking about, would come from one egg. And it might have been a precaution to produce would be able to successfully escape the Abyss. Now another explanation could be that the it to the top first after determining that explain why so many were created. Ultimately, the exact details aren't super many different interpretations can be pulled After the Hollow Knight was chosen, the Pale the discarded Vessels to rot away in darkness. These actions were not taken lightly by the Both participants expressed shame in what the kingdom. But the Vessels weren't the only poor saps There's also a lighthouse that was built light shining down on an ocean of Abyss below. Inside was one of the Pale King's Royal the lighthouse turned on. So this brave soul was willingly sealed in his life just so he could not pull a lever. Well, at least he was living with purpose. With the Abyss sealed and the Hollow Knight to come together. The Hollow Knight was raised and trained to times its original size. We don't know exactly why this happened. But I guess the Hollow Knight is a grower We know that the Hollow Knight was trained One possible explanation is that the Hollow intruder tried to kill it, you know, like Or perhaps this was important in the process Unfortunately the details of that are never The Hollow Knight might have somehow focused gives us no explanation of how that might But that still wasn't enough for the Pale Additional seals were needed in order to protect the Radiance was trapped inside of it. To achieve this, the Pale King sought the be known as the Dreamers; Lurien the Watcher, Lurien is definitely the most mysterious of He lived in the Watcher's Spire in the City From there, Lurien watched over the city with Lurien was also a pretty big fan of the king, him to lie down for him. Lurien might also be tied to another strange Hidden on some of Lurien's lore tablets be found stockpiled in the Tower of Love. This building sits on the outskirts of the bizzare bosses in the game: The Collector. The Collector is a Void construct that appears the kingsmoulds. But the Collector is unique because.... Well uhh... Good grief! He's naked! The Collector stayed in the Tower of Love In the tower, a number of bugs can be found were tasked with collecting these creatures. However, the Collector somehow became obsessed grubs it captured in jars, as well as keeping style of the Vitruvian Man. Eventually the bug staying with the Collector and fled to the Queen's Gardens where it Despite being locked up in the Tower, the some point, which either means this only happened in Hallownest for a long ass time. We have no idea what these creatures were It's implied that the Collector was trying trying to protect them from the spread of But we don't know where the Collector's And while Lurien does seem connected to all with this operation or what it's end goal Monomon the Teacher lived in the Teacher's in the Fog Canyon. The lower half of her body consists of tentacles, Hollow Knight R34 community. The Archives, and Fog Canyon as a whole, are These creatures are likely related to Monomon They could be her live offspring, her test Monomon used futuristic cathode ray tube things Several terminals in the Teacher's Archive to defeat the Radiance, indicating that Monomon part in. Finally, the Pale King sought the help of Now as I mentioned earlier, relations between great. Unlike the other two Dreamers, Herrah needed King. Herrah would eventually agree to become a The Pale King agreed, and the two engaged they totally boned. The White Lady was okay with this arrangement. In fact, she might have been watching from The motive behind Herrah's request is never King of Deepnest was dead at this point. Herrah was a common bug, so perhaps she desired could be of high birth. The bargain between Herrah and the Pale King She became known as the Gendered Child, because was not hollowed out in the Abyss. Herrah and Hornet spent little time together, bargain. And so the three Dreamers were put to rest. Through their actions, a seal was placed over chamber. These Dreamers also had their own protection. At the base of Lurien's spire, the Watcher body. Monomon's body was protected by a giant On top of this, Monomon entrusted her servant to break an additional seal she had placed So she basically is double wrapping herself. As for Herrah, we're not really sure what seen in game. We don't know where this creature is hiding, job. Now there appears to be one more element to Hidden away in the Weaver's Den is an incomplete This design prominently features the Hollow Palace as well as blocking the exit during Silk spools created by the Weavers can be well as the stag station next to the White These spools can also be found in the Pale We know that the Weavers were closely tied have been a part of the deal between the Pale Once the Hollow Knight was ready, the Radiance was then placed inside of a giant black egg This egg was built to sustain the Hollow Knight, The Hollow Knight was chained up, and the a powerful seal created by the three Dreamers. Initially, this convoluted plan actually worked, Memorials to the Hollow Knight and the Dreamers Resting Grounds. But this is the part of the story where things By the time these statues were constructed, woven from spider's silk, which was all onto the city. We don't know how long the Hollow Knight Bugs from Dirtmouth used to go to the Temple at peace within the walls. But after a while, they stopped going, perhaps to leak out again. The infectious air continued to seep through the deepest parts of the kingdom. As it turns out, the Pale King's pure Vessel The Hollow Knight had been tarnished by an While the game never explicitly tells us what it might be. Hidden away in the White Palace is a memory sharing a moment. The Hollow Knight might have developed a parental it? The Pale King is a pretty great dad, after You know, if you ignore the infanticide and Remember those smug mushroom dickheads? Well it turns out their trust in the Pale That shared mind isn't looking too good In the Fungal Core, the corpse of a giant Its final thoughts were "Pale Wyrm... What good to foresee a demise unavoidable?" This could imply that the Pale King always do was delay the inevitable. This is likely the moment when Hallownest The Hollow Knight had not completely stopped a while, Hallownest was eventually brought It's at this point that characters and areas When it became clear that the Hollow Knight Pale King resorted to his final plan. He fucked off, hiding himself, his White Palace At this point, all of the furniture in the to how people in the real world cover their The palace was also completely covered with in the real world cover their houses with The Pale King would eventually pass away while There's no confirmation on what killed him, The throne room is incredibly dark compared effects and ambience track in this room are All of the Kingsmoulds surrounding the Pale The Ancient Basin itself also has become stained as high as the run down elevator shaft leading Remember that bug that was sealed away in turned off. Well, the lighthouse was turned off. I guess that whole living with purpose thing It seems as though the sea of void itself king and turn off the lighthouse. Now I know what you're thinking. Exactly how conscious is the Void? Is the Void able to think for itself? Can it form strategies? Does it host a podcast? Well according to this chozo statue ripoff, So while it can thrash around at things that off a light, it's not a single conscious Getting back to the Pale King, one could argue his ultimate demise, and I've argued that But we have to remember that there isn't As an expert lawyer and a good friend of mine, Any evidence that the Void was involved in My name is Johnny Cockran. Just above the White Palace, the bugs in the Even if we ignore the fact that the infection that helped lead to the city's downfall. Due to the gates being sealed, some bugs resorted And there's also that metric fuck ton of When all was said and done, the only citizen laughs her ass off about it like she's a The White Lady ends up in a cocoon deep within She decided to place bindings on herself in She claims that this is because of the shame the Vessels, but honestly, it's probably The White Lady also diminished her power, unwanted visitors. Outside her cocoon, Dryya stood guard, protecting Dryya is eventually killed off by these bugs, about it. I mean we're talking like the Netgear WPN824N Speaking of "Great Knights" dying pathetically, Hegemol held the City Crest, a key used to At some point, Hegemol's armored shell was Now maggots were generally looked down upon They were incredibly weak and basically deserved But this one maggot decided to turn the tide, defend his downtrodden brothers. His actions weren't motivated by the infection, caste system will always lead to revolution can only be achieved blah blah blah capitalism Subscribe to my Patreon. Ogrim moved to the Royal Waterways and started Defender. Now I love wallowing in shit as much as the shit to put up with living with the flukes. The Dung Defender kept an unwavering sense his fellow Knights, so much so that he made How nice. Ogrim acted as the defender of the pipeways, A section of the Royal Waterways became filled Isma's corpse, which has been overcome by Isma is likely the one responsible for this to her. Hornet's whereabouts during this time are We know that she departed Deepnest, and didn't At some point, she took to guarding Hallownest Shell in the Kingdom's Edge. Despite the kingdom's woes at large, fortunately favorite characters. The menderbugs continued to fix the broken From a diary entry, we can see that one Menderbug of a long and loving relationship: Hello Again Diary, For a stealthy types, we're a riotous bunch And Mender Berri kept flashing me that smile! It might be time to muster my courage and I love my home and my life, but sharing it Greenpath also underwent some changes during The Mosskin were waiting for Unn's call they were originally born from. But for some reason, Unn strength deteriorated. We don't know why this happened exactly. Was it due to the White Lady claiming part Was it somehow due to the infection? Some Mosskin believe that Unn went into hiding, calling to her children, but many of the Mosskin Instead many Mosskin seem to have taken the which might explain why Greenpath became overgrown powers. Mossy Vagabonds even openly chose to forsake Another tribe to be screwed over by the Radiance the death of their leader, Hive Queen Vespa. But it appears as though this had little effect The Radiance's hivemind was already familiar under something similar already. So in other words, the Hive probably made Let's turn our attention back to the moths. After all, it's their god that keeps killing Well, the moth tribe didn't fare too well died out. The only known survivor is the Seer. Despite the loss of her tribe, the Seer continued while also awaiting the arrival of the Wielder, of for a while. In the Kingdom's Edge, the land became covered corpse. The Colosseum of Fools continued to thrive. The Lord Fool passed away at some point, but The Fools inside the Colosseum were infected, over themselves. It seems possible that these bugs took in Lord and his followers. This would have given them an edge in combat, whole shrinking testicles thing. However, even the Traitor Lord and his followers special? As for the Pale King's champion, the Pale of insane. There appears to have been another unforeseen When the Hollow Knight was originally chosen, the discarded Vessels within. But apparently, some Vessels didn't get Vessel corpses can be found littered throughout There's one in the Ancient Basin, one in liar in Deepnest. Another Vessel that escaped from the Abyss The exact details on how the Vessels escaped There are indications that they might have given Void influence in part of the area, At some point, all entrances to Hallownest being the only way to sneak back in. Despite this, several people have wormed their Characters like Relic Seeker Lemm seemed content kingdom, but other bugs seemed interested In the Howling Cliffs rests the corpse of The task of this bug appears to have been might be summoned to the kingdom in the future. The Grimm Troupe are basically a group of Nightmare Heart. The troupe keeps the Heart alive by feeding This process also involves sacrificing the hey, look at this cool ass boss battle. Another important group that travelled to After being abandoned by their old Gods: the bugs left their home in the Land of Storms The Godseekers look to gods to save them from While travelling through the wastelands, the which helped them seek out new gods. Through this device they were able to detect their way to Hallownest. When they arrived, however, the Godseeker It was encased in a strange sarcophagus-like lock. It's not clear how this forced hibernation been made by the Godseeker herself. As for who put the cocoon in chains, I think considering how the Godseekers cocoon is found the Dung Defender has tasked himself with This was the general picture of Hallownest the Temple of the Black Egg. The kingdom was stuck in a kind of stasis, and the Radiance unable to break free from The Pale King was rebelling against nature, The stasis over of Hallownest held for an How long is that exactly? Well, we have no idea. As I'm sure you've noticed, there really in this game. We also have no idea how long any of these Elderbug wasn't around to see the stagways were, implying that Elderbug is probably one But this stasis over Hallownest wasn't going At some point, the Radiance erupted out of releasing a loud and powerful roar. The amount of infection leaking out of the The many corpses that lined the roads and the amplified power of the infection. This strengthened infection prompted the departure Now this old home might actually be Pharloom, takes place. But the amount of knowledge we have about saying that's confirmed or anything. This is also around the time the Quirrel arrives His memory of Monomon appears to have been These events are depicted in the Quirrel prequel Knight with a pre-cracked shell. This could mean that Quirrel's arrival happens shell cracks. At around the same time as Quirrel arrives the player character, who is commonly referred The Knight was one of the lucky Vessels that Somehow, the Knight ended up venturing beyond It's implied that the Knight was called Knight or the Radiance within. Regardless, once the Knight shows up and yeets Hollow Knight finally begins. Now, there's a lot of details we could get Hallownest is full of NPCs and bosses, each But to be honest, I don't think we need are relatively straightforward. For example, let's look at the Brooding So why is the Brooding Mawlek brooding? Because all its friends are dead. And there you go, that's the lore for the Also, it's the only character in the game Now did you really need me to explain that Probably not. So instead, I'm just going to talk about main story. The Knight is eventually noticed by Hornet, There, Hornet attempts to kill the Knight, to do. At this point, Hornet views the Knight as After the fight, Hornet can be found in the Knight. Hornet mentions that the Knight has gained void beyond Hallownest. This could be referring to the fact that some meaning the Knight would have no memories Hornet tells the Knight that if it seeks to standing, it must seek the "Grave in Ash", At this moment, Hornet sees the Knight as Basically, the Knight could break the seals the Hollow Knight and contain the infection It's at this point that I should mention endings because of course it would. I'm going to be explaining each of these a different glimpse into the mechanics of Now, to get the easiest ending to Hollow Knight, Edge can be ignored completely. If the Knight stumbles upon the Resting Grounds, Knight into the Dream Realm. There, Seer will come to the Knight's rescue that can tear the veil between the real world With the Dream Nail, the Knight can venture curbstomp their asses, and unlock the entrance Inside the egg, the Knight finds the Hollow it. Once the chains are broken, the Hollow Knight And pursues the Knight. As the fight progresses, the Hollow Knight But then the Radiance starts using the Hollow Once defeated, the Hollow Knight begins to The Knight can then Focus the infection into This results in the first ending of the game, In this ending, the Knight usurps the Hollow New chains and bindings appear out of... fuck seal is placed over the entrance to the Black Now there is one giant question looming over Can the Knight actually contain the infection Or will the Radiance still manage to break Before we answer this question, let's look while playing the game. If the player chooses to go to Kingdom's last time as a final test of strength. After her defeat, Hornet allows the Knight King was originally hatched. By interacting with the egg, the Knight's making the Knight the new ruler of Hallownest. With the King's Brand, the Knight can now the place of its birth. When leaving the Abyss, the Knight can encounter suggests that there are actually two outcomes She tells the Knight that it can either prolong the kingdom's infection. Within the Knight, Hornet sees a chance for Instead of just replacing the Hollow Knight, get rid of the infection completely by using After visiting the Abyss and obtaining the the White Lady hidden away in the Queen's The White Lady tells the Knight that she has gift being one half of a charm called the more power. The White Lady goes on to explain that she within her roots. She tells the Knight that it is free of the vessel. From this dialogue, it is implied that the containing the Radiance successfully. But it's not quite that simple, so we're Basically we need to answer a simple question. What exactly does it mean to be a Hollow Knight? Despite the White Lady's words, we have item descriptions mention that the Knight But from the Pale King's dialogue when describing Vessel has no mind or will. So is the White Lady wrong? Or maybe even lying? Her eyes have been clouded by time, and she in the room when the Knight is wearing the She also thinks that Dryya is still alive uhh.... So maybe the White Lady is just senile? My problem with that theory is that the White her clearly in a misted world, due to them She also questions whether or not the Knight Knight must have some kind of will. So for whatever reason, the White Lady thinks the Radiance, even if it's still able to After all, the Hollow Knight was considered a fucking sword. I mean, if the Knight were truly and completely even be able to walk, or draw a map, or open In short, this whole concept of being "hollow" really feel comfortable giving a solid answer truly hollow. And I think the game leaves room open for Of course, the White Lady's gift is useless In order to reach it, however, the Knight the body of a Kingsmould. In order to bypass the seal, the Knight must It can do this by bringing 1800 Essence to blade. If the Knight does this, the Seer remarks her tribe has been dreaming of. There's no explicit reason why the Moth so much, but it seems like they believed the Tribe committed by turning their backs on The Seer seems to know that the Knight might of it, ready for her and her tribe to disappear With the Awoken Dream Nail in hand, the Knight locate the other half of the Kingsoul charm. When equipped, the Kingsoul provides a never if it weren't for the insanely high cost at which it increases, and the fact that the you get it. The Kingsoul charm itself symbolizes the union To me, this implies that the Kingsoul is a created by the union of two Higher Beings. With the Kingsoul in their inventory, the Abyss called the Birthplace. In this massive pile of Vessel shells the Dream Nailing the egg allows the Knight to into the Abyss. From viewing that memory, the Kingsoul charm The recollection of this event allows the itself. Once the Knight has the Void Heart, the shades strange creature that gives the Knight the In other words, the Knight has now bound the it to control the Void in a powerful new way. With the union of the Void, the Pale King a strength before unseen. It is with this charm that two additional Hornet will now be standing outside of the the opportunity arrive. Midway through the fight with the Hollow Knight, Knight and piercing its shell. It's at this point that the Knight is given mind of its sibling, fighting the source of end to the Radiance's tyranny. Or it can just stand there and let Hornet If the Knight finishes off the Hollow Knight Basically it's the same as the Hollow Knight and her face appears on the door to the Black It's not clear what exactly this means for This might imply that Hornet is now a Dreamer, no one can actually get in there to kill her At the same time, Hornet mentions that the so she's probably just going to die anyway, Generally, people consider this one of the that Team Cherry doesn't support any one Each ending is canonical in its own right. And honestly, this ending isn't the worst. At least the Knight and Hornet will get to If the Knight does Dream Nail the Hollow Knight, finally fight the Radiance head on. But the Knight isn't alone, as the other to help corner the Radiance. Eventually, the Radiance gets trapped in the The Knight bitch slaps her a couple times darkness. The Black Egg then appears to turn to shadows Hornet awakens to find the Knight's broken We get one final shot of the shades in the This ending is called the Dream No More ending. The Radiance is gone and Hallownest is finally Now I think it's fair to ask a few questions When the Hollow Knight was initially chosen up and the rest of the Vessels were left to But somehow, Vessels ended up outside of the And then one of those Vessels was used to Exactly how much of this operation was planned The White Lady was waiting for a Vessel, did Hornet was guarding the King's Brand, the How did she know it was necessary to guard Hell, if the Vessels did escape the Abyss to guard the King's Brand, since the Vessels way? I'm not going to provide any good answers Because god forbid I answer anything in this But I do want to point out that no plans to are explicitly stated ingame, so we can only or Hornet or maybe even the Pale King knew a Lord of Shades like the Knight. Regardless, the next two endings were definitely In fact, the last two endings that were added place. The Godseekers basically hijack everything enter the Temple of the Black Egg to beat That's like beating Mario Bros. without But on the other hand, the Godmaster endings exist in a vacuum, which can help the world Because what else is reality but just a bunch time? If the Knight finds the Godseeker in the Junk refight all of the bosses in the game. This is part of the Godseekers' ritual. They basically attune to the resonance of This allows them to ascend their minds higher, achieve communication with the god sleeping Now I know what you're thinking. That's a pretty convoluted little religious What's next, are they going to start measuring It's pretty complicated, but the point is, to fuck things up in Hallownest, as we're As the Knight makes it further and further get closer and closer to making contact with Knight. At the end of the fourth Pantheon, the Radiance cutscene between the Vessels. But she isn't the only one to make an appearance. The Void itself appears to go on the attack, It's at this point that the final challenge, The Godseeker finally acknowledges the Knight and they begin to watch the Knight more intently. After defeating like a bazillion bosses in face to face with the Absolute Radiance, a final boss. Finally, the stage is set. After roughly forty minutes of intense agony reached the ultimate enemy responsible for Truly this will be a battle for the ages. But first let's check in on our old pal, As it turns out he's still alive when the And he's still fulfilling his duty after Let's take one last look at his diary. My Lovely Diary, Right there at the top of the crossroads. Keeps happening too! But you know, I just can't get mad about it. I should be thanking them really! More chances to fix that beautiful, complex And I've stocked up on spare parts, so I've Unfortunately, the only way to ever read the blood. I'm not sure why Team Cherry thought this Reddit is that they are bloodthirsty warmongers But at least Menderbug's last moments will in the Forgotten Crossroads. It's comforting to think that his final bliss before we sent him hurtling into the Well anyway... This alternate fight between the Knight and the vanilla endings. This time around, the Knight is not accompanied Instead, after defeating the Radiance, the Now this creature has several names, the God Void Entity. But I don't really like any of those, so Bill proceeds to completely annihilate the We are then treated to the "Embrace the Bill comes back down from the sky, dropping The Godseeker starts to get pulled into Bill We then cut to the Godseeker in the Junk Pit. Void starts leaking out of her eyes, and it back into the real world. Which is probably a bad thing? Finally, we see Hornet standing outside of from the nearby vines. Hornet hears footsteps coming from inside itself to her and the two prepare for combat. So from this cutscene, we can see that the kill her for real, meaning that the infection This means the seals inside of the Black Egg to escape its prison. In other words, the Embrace the Void ending how Team Cherry plans to follow this up. The Hollow Knight is running loose in Hallownest, Void monster that might try to destroy the of it. What's even more strange about this ending Silksong doesn't seem to be related to this But that's a whole different shitshow. Obviously, the biggest mystery surrounding Did this creature exist in the Void already, the power of the Godseekers? Did the Knight turn into this thing? Or did it just become a part of it? Examining a statue of this creature, and the a Hunter's Journal entry for an ancient imply this creature might have been worshipped But again, that's pure speculation. We don't know what this worship of the Void Maybe the Void they worshipped took the form There is one thing we know about this monster It's weak to flowers. Yes, these things. As it turns out, those Delicate Flowers that useful for something. They contain a strange power that even deters The Godseeker, however, is dumb enough to If the player does this, instead of Void being a no-u and the Godseeker and the Void disappear The flower itself is described as giving off to the Pale Beings. Like I said before, Pale Beings appear to As of right now, we are only aware of two: But the fact that Ze'mer brought these pale are definitely more of them out there. Another small hint of the existence of Pale found all over Hallownest. Did these come from the Pale King, or possibly And what exactly are they? Are they poop? In general, the Godmaster endings appear to Knight content. Like I said before, Hollow Knight: Silksong the surface, so we are in a bit of a bind actually mean for the greater narrative Team There's definitely a lot more to consider they possess. And we also have plenty of questions surrounding it in the past. It almost feels like we are looking through of Team Cherry's creation. How powerful are creatures like Bill and the Where did things like the Void even come from How much bigger is the world beyond Hallownest? Is Bardoon into butt stuff? But of course that's the appeal of a game Having all of the answers to every question Plus if we didn't have questions like this we do with our lives? Go outside? Ugg... And so this video comes to an end. Now I know the average attention span of a you with a few takeaways: 1. Hollow Knight is a game about bugs. I know that may come as a shock, but it's Watch the video again, and this time pay attention. You'll notice right away, I promise. 2. Murdering your own babies might not be such I mean, this is obviously just my interpretation Other people might have different views on opinion is valid so I don't want to step 3. Menderbug is fucking dead. 4. Nothing is certain. This video probably has a few flaws in it. Trying to construct a cohesive narrative with exactly straightforward. I'm sure my views will change in the future, 5. And this last point is fairly obvious but is the best anime (weeb shit)