My daughter and I are going to London. The flight time is long.. 13 hours. I watched movies set in London on the plane, And I also watched many Korean dramas. I finally landed in London listening to Beatles songs! HAMI: The smell here is really different from Incheon Airport! I'm glad my daughter not tired and feels excited Finally crossing the British border, It was around 5pm at this time, so I quickly got my luggage. I took the Airport Railroad Elizabeth Line to go downtown Finally, London! I will stay at a place near Paddington Station for my first night. Since it was the first evening, I thought it would be difficult to travel further. Fortunately, the sun hadn't set yet, so it wasn't hard to find the house. The houses around Paddington looked classic and elegant. I found out the front door key at the place the landlord told me. then I also found the house key safely, like a treasure hunt! The first accommodation was a room in the owner's house. I really liked the cozy atmosphere of that house! Even the props placed in the living room were so pretty The room where HAMI and I stayed for the night was inside, I liked this room because it was quiet and cozy I went out to a nearby supermarket to buy water. I've been to Paris many times, but this is my first time in London. I thought the two countries would be similar, but the atmosphere felt different. Then I arrived at a Waitrose supermarket 5 minutes away. I bought the flat peaches that HAMI wanted to eat. I walked home along the darkened road. Eating out here is expensive, so I decided to eat at least one meal at home. So I booked houses with kitchens rather than hotels with only room. I was personally curious about what houses in London looked like My first night in a house that was as pretty as I expected passed. I woke up at 4am because of the time difference. HAMI: I'm so so hungry! HAMI asked me if the apple was Snow White's apple. because the apple was so red! :) Hyde Park is within walking distance, so I'm going to go for a walk They said the weather would be clear today, let's see.. I guess it's because it's still early morning..? I thought apples weren't enough, so I stopped by M&amp;S market. I chose egg tarts and croissants to eat while walking, and we chose at the self-checkout counter to pay. ( Hammy hums ) Hyde Park was huge, and this is near Queensway Station. I was really looking forward to Hyde Park, Suddenly, Mother Nature appeared. I decided to walk towards the Italian Garden on the left As I walked, I also met a squirrel. After walking for about 10 minutes, I saw the Italian Garden and I also started feel a little hungry. The sky is getting clearer, HAMI seems to be in a good mood after eating bread After a hearty morning walk, My first accomodation in London.. Thankfully, It gave me a good first impression of London. The second house was in the same neighborhood. and HAMI carried my bag :) I was excited because it was the house I booked very first. It's before check-in time, so I left my luggage. I plan to go sightseeing in the city and then return to here. I used my credit card conveniently, The weather is nice so I'm going downtown on a tour bus. yes.. this is mommy pig.. Now just cross the street and take the bus! but Hamipig said she was hungry, , I went to 'Prettamanger'. I chose a warm wrap sandwich, salad, and drink I ate the sandwich without much expectation because it was a chain restaurant, The cheese and the vegetable flavor was so good! I'm glad I ate it. shall we take a look around the city now? My husband gave HAMI a mission to find the flower bud-shaped building. Hami was excited about the mission. The tour bus passed the National Gallery in the center of London, and passing Trafalgar Square, Mom, is that Big Ben? We passed the London Eye, which was bigger than we thought, Finally, the last step remains: crossing Tower Bridge. The roads were so congested that it took longer than expected. But soon we crossed the bridge,! I got off here to clear my husband's mission HAMI runs to the ice cream shop as if drawn by a magnet I also took a bite of ice cream to recharge, The building my husband tols me was the 'St. Mary Axe' tower We took a photo in front of the tower. Mission complete. Now let's go to the London Eye! The weather forecast says it'll be sunny until tomorrow. so I decided to take the London Eye today. HAMI: I'm actually on the London Eye! London city center seen slowly from high above, I could see everything from the distant town to the nearest train. It takes 30 minutes for the London Eye to make one full rotation I enjoyed looking at London at sunset Now let's go to the house! I was surprised by the traffic during the day, so I took the tube. I arrived at Paddington Station soon. I bought dinner and went back to the house. I'm planning to stay here for two nights I'd like to stay longer, but the lodging was a bit expensive.. It's a hassle to move accommodations with a child several times, but I thought it would be a regretful to stay in just one house. Luckily, I was able to leave my bags in advance in all the houses. so It wasn't that hard :) The weather is nice tomorrow, so I will go to the beach near London. I should go to bed early :) I got on the tour bus from early in the morning, the earphones from the Big Bus was very useful from today. A bit sleepy though.. .. Oh.. I thought it was sunny today! I hope the weather gets better-!!! After two hours of rain and cloudiness, Fortunately, it cleared up by the time I arrived Today's schedule is, first, I'll tour the small town of RYE, Then I'll go to the 'Seven Sisters' that I've been looking forward to. So I was not that interested in this town itself first, It turned out that I wanted to stay here for a little longer. I saw a historic inn that retained its medieval appearance, (following mom) I also saw the cute houses, I looked around the castle that protected the small town, I think it would be good to take at least half day to look around After looking around the small bakeries and souvenir shops, I had to say goodbye to RYE.. I ate Kimbap the guide gave me and head to Seven Sisters. kimbap is always delicious! And I reached the destination, Go up the hill looking straight ahead, And when I turn around...!! We took pictures of each other, This is the place where one of my favorite movies was set. The ending of the movie was beautiful and sad, This place was just beautiful today Hami said the carved stone looked like a jewel. I also thought this place was shining like a jewel. After a brief moment, I moved to the trail behind the coastal cliffs I'm grateful to HAMI who followed me this far, I bought her the ice cream she wanted. Finally, I arrived at the exact place that was shown at the end of the movie A place I saw countless times in the movie, 'Atonement' I couldn't believe that I was actually here. I think I'll never forget this moment. I took a bus back to the city. When I arrived the house, it was already dark. I bought tteokbokki from the Korean mart on the way. HAMI's favorite menu.. I ate M&amp;S plain croissant again because it was so good. It's already my third night in London Today is Saturday, so I'm going to the Notting Hill Weekend Market I played a few games with HAMI on the bus. Unlike the neatly organized Paddington houses, I could see cute pastel-toned houses. Portobello Road Market is held here every weekend, Starting with vintage items, Cute little props, There are bakeries, cafes, and souvenir shops below and I also saw a stall selling fresh food ingredients A 7-year-old enjoying tasting food I also stopped by the Notting Hill Bookstore. It's different from the Notting Hill Bookstore in the movie, It made me realize that I really came to London. Thinking that I should come back again next weekend, It's time to leave this house already. Checking out by putting the key inside. Now, I will go to another London house that I liked the most. It's a trendy neighborhood east of London, 'Hackney'. I heard that it's a neighborhood where many young artists live, An designer lived in this house with her cat. After hearing a brief explanation of the house, While the host was cleaning, I went out to a nearby park for lunch After passing a small park where the swing was, I arrived at the 'Victoria Park' which is quite large There was a cafe facing a small lake Pavilion Cafe, Victoria Park A restaurant where I chould enjoy brunch while looking at the lake Hungry HAMI ordered sweet pancakes, and she even had the egg toast I ordered.. It was so delicious that HAMI this well. Hackney had many buses, but it took a while to get to the city. I got off at Tower Bridge after about 40 minutes by bus As soon as I got off, there was another ice cream shop.. anyway, I was excited from the moment I saw a little part of Tower Bridge, When I got closer, the bridge was open! I came by chance, but it was the opening time! so lucky! How did they get the idea to paint the bridge that beautiful sky blue? When you go up on the bridge, you can see this view Hami said thank you to my subscribers. I also Thank you Now I'm going to buy dinner at the nearby Borough Market. I came after 4 o'clock, so it was almost closing time. Start a quick tour with Cat HAMI. The staff at the risotto shop said I looked like 'Where's Wally' lol There were a lot of ingredients I was curious about, but I just bought some bread I got back to Hackney House. The reason HAMI liked this house was because there was a cat. I personally liked the interior of this house the best. There was a bookshelf and a kettle just like the ones in my house. The home decor was natural and cozy. I had to bring food and water for the cat, but it wasn't a hassle. The bed was low, so it was comfortable to sleep with HAMI. The cat's name is 'Carlos' He was a quiet cat but liked people, When we were eating, he was always wagging his tail next to us. A night when I looked forward to the rest of my days in this house, I think the story will be long. See you in London Travel ep.2!