Can You Beat Lost City with To be honest... I don't want to- as there are 32 LEVELS in this world game, you're doing this on purpose now and to add to the chaos, out of these 32 levels that ONLY have lost city plants. What you're telling me peashooter can't go play with but anyway this world is already WOAH- WELCOME TO THE JUNGLE- LOST CITY? THIS IS IT PENNY! WE'VE FOUND IT!... ignoring dave's awful stand-up routine, the lost city has its own funky looking however, placing plants on these tiles actually you extra sun over time, think of these as just however, as you'll find out later, the game seems to also realise this and decides but we're not at that stage yet, so making use any other world and made use of peashooter we flew through day 1, which I have received a LOT of comments from stinger is BASICALLY Rose from garden warfare 2... I don't know if I'm blind but...these like THIS plant clearly isn't THIS plant I know you guys wanna see more cool character but it doesn't matter anyway because, in day 2, a and these 2 guys seem like they regret it but whilst they're already here, I can go over red stinger's concept is kinda strange with it changing its attacking style the not that i cared because i so once again i primarily used however everything came to a stop when you're probably sick of me you think i WANT to talk about these this level gives us broken so unfortunately we moved onto day 4, where penny- CAUTION USER DAVE...i detect are you serious right now- I know! telekinesis! try again, user dave I know...! AK47- as mentioned by penny this shovel dude peashooters peas, and as demonstrated by instead of consuming my plants, the shovel face throws it back and the only way to counter them is by using being part of the garden warfare team, he's parachute RAIN! ...ok. i guess since these guys are now here, the parachute zombies fall from the a crap bungee zombie who just stares at something i will say about the parachute sunflower garden they actually decide to stay of defeats the point of me building up a strong but we beat the level anyway and moved on to day 5 ...it MIGHT be possible- i know i've already brought up these RACIST so any future levels in this world that Day 6 forces this..orange bagpipe to ignore him whilst placing down our peashooters but then i forgot this guy existed so placing down how do you perfectly shovel out get rid of this guy, chomper YOU stupid-...what in the trickshot What was that called? the 360 no-chomp? it's really finicky to take down chomper will get a bite in before the and you'd think i'd know when to place he 3-piece combos my "chomper army" like the level ended, giving us the sentient bagpipes, but I was kinda put off listening leave that little guy alone! What are you going to do if I don't? DAY 7 Who...are you- you don't even look like you're from this world this parasol zombie seems to be the as SHE BLOCKS PROJECTILES like kernel front...you guys are like 2 peas in a fire Since these 2 zombies go against each I decided to use something neither could counter don't let the zombies trample the flowers! wait, hold on, i haven't chosen my...plants so it seems like in lost city, they don't this is clearly a survive because the RACIST CITY is too proud they so as it's literally impossible, day 9... so you're telling me there's a chance?? ...no, there is no chance- day 10, finally something i can play! this little plus symbol in the middle which proved to be a bad decision i had to hold out long enough to just spawn the as my plants are just too weak to cause any real we received spiky mango and... fly. if it wasn't already hard enough to some of them now take an UBER combine this with the skydivers, endless i managed to barely make it through, day 12, 5000 SUN...how much is your rent? luckily the level has sun tiles scattered EVERYWHERE, so this shouldn't however with this ginormous the level decides i should face a ginormous zombie after barely getting by this first one, this was only possible with chomper plants for mr. gargantuar to we're only on day 12 and the difficulty of these levels is already ramping up WAY day 13, you know the drill- day 14...oh well at least they've labelled sorry- but i have access to 7 seed What am I supposed to do, day 15, protect bagpipe man, well in all honesty, i'd rather see this burnt i didn't realise how much chomper as he doesn't really care where the he'll eat anything that has a we get given ANOTHER map, and i'm pretty sure the zombies already but NOPE, Dave is just as stupid as last ...i will keep doing this until come here seeking adventure, have you?... I wish someone would carry me in a tiny house... what? day 16, WOW WHAT A FINE SELECTION OF PLANTS- ALERT USER DAVE! MY SENSORS oh, i mean importers which have the ability to go camping on however it seems they brought different zombies begin to walk out of the with the sun tiles being quite of my sun producers meaning i was extremely however with a single row of chompers we made it all the way to the end and used the it seems like in every world we take on, there's always a different garden warfare but my fun was cut short look guys! purple plant...what? the purple circle was force into and look at the STATE of this gameplay, i am fighting for my life to to add to the FIFTY things i have to control, which seem to all have 19 kids each by using cactus and chomper, we're able to barely rewarding us with &quot;me after Z...for zombies :D with a lot of the sun tiles being close together, i placed my sunflowers in rows across most of as much i joke about these dudes, they appear to Regardless, we wiped out the and received the mothers necklace look PENNY! A "SHINY WHINY day 21, ah, no intro, okay, okay this world is taking the mick- What am I even looking at? this is a nightmare blunt rotation, this fat so in day 22, oh...what are those things- beware user dave! I detect trap tiles! they are triggered when zombies well thanks for the explanation penny but i well...piss okay so this level looks basically IMPOSSIBLE on garden warfare/ BFN plants since some of you are however, as i mentioned WAY back in ancient character for battle for neighborville, but it so technically since they are and that great and everything but..how is that well as penny brought up in the cause on-screen boulders or flame waves so i was curious, with some precision and use iceberg lettuce to beat this level with that being said i placed iceberg to take out this column of zombies and i was already concerned with how long so letting the zombies travel halfway up the lawn, i placed the second lettuce which is when these fast flying flies appeared and of time i managed to regenerate iceberg lettuce but then all of a sudden parachute zombies which needed me to carefully wait for the zombies i was shocked how far i was actually making it however, i noticed they came out on the 1st so by timing a boulder as soon as they step on which ACTUALLY worked, leaving me to only and with the last dragonfly eliminated we beat day 23 seemed like everything was normal at these guys are essentially just reskinned just tracking them with a chomper they but that's when they deployed a gargantuar on i went back to the classic snapdragon and used the plant cycle system to stall however with my lawnmowers being taken out i had with even considering to use nightcap so i placed some sunflowers on the further and as zombies got closer to eating nightcap, seen before, allowing zombies to phase so with this mechanic i didn't destroying these expensive ass plants, and day 24, "save dave's flowers", and halfway down the lawn, it made this so to defend the flowers, i used up the peashooter torchwood combo at the back and everything was looking good until the coal this didn't matter though as i made who are YOU lot- you'd think i'd struggle with such limited plant with literally sunflower and cactus...why was and it appears the duo tag team well with chomper and peashooter level which unlocked that guy in day 27, oh...who are you? Chomper, you greedy eggplant- this old geezer, holding that prays to Jesus before using his holy that's not very "jesus" like- they aren't much of a threat as long as you take which concluded the level with only ...a war occurred today- day 28, i mean at least we using my iceberg strategy from last time i just which made this level ridiculously easy i would say that sunflower these imps set up shop way back over here, look this is the footage sped up the game they will never make it past the boulder and as much as it is funny, i last time i checked, sunflower doesn't have a gun- so there's literally no way to beat this gimmick level unless i was able to fire off technically i'd say i've won this day 29...snapdragon... day 30..WE'RE NOT DONE YET protect dave's slime with such limited space i had to what did you expect- day 31...we've been here for a whole and what plants do we get...a but after all that rubbish we had to fight TWO...that line is getting worse every time- BOSSFIGHT TIME do we have a chance to beat zomboss with But after 32 days of CRAP, we took and he dropped the key to the FAR FUTURE... but that'll have to be for next time because plants, Please like the video if you want subscribe to help me beat ghostplace to 100,000