There's a new inmate at the New York, a 42 year old Xu Yanjun. In October 2021, Xu sat in Cincinnati from another officer named Jim Olson, U.S. government. When I looked at you in the He and I are alike. We both were serving our thought. We both were schooled in But there's a big of us. What's that? You got caught, The story of how Olson and is a tale of modern It's a saga that revealed what U.S. officials say is orchestrated from Beijing China ultimately wants to as the dominant global In this global shadow war, just who has the upper But the story of Xu Yanjun game is played today. And it's a game with the line. What's the way this espionage war? We have to be more up. What torments me is all. If catching spies is hard almost unheard of. In Cincinnati, Ohio, there attorneys who've done it. Tim Mangan and Emily Their case started in 2017 David Zhang, receives a from a university official The GE engineer gets an How come he doesn't just this is just spam? What it? Well, it was an invitation university about his So that's prestigious. I think he was flattered. And as it turned out, they trip and it's paying for a He was able to combine it The university that invited aerospace science, and in GE's newest jet engine, the Boeing's 777X. The GE engineer was one of team regarding this working on. What was it that the Chinese GE's engine fan blades are material, which makes it That gives it a tremendous with respect to weight, forth. Other competitors on their own, and some are But as far as engines that the only ones with a fan blade case are from GE. David Zhang declined our prosecutors say that when Nanjing in June 2017, he's During his trip, Zhang is claims to be part of a association. The alias uses is Qu Wei, works for the Ministry of It's essentially the main within the Republic of Xu Yanjun is a spy at the or MSS. In the spring of 2017, Xu is officer in one of its He attempts to recruit the using techniques known as Jim Olson is a former chief the CIA. You have to pretend to be That's your cover. A decorated spy who was and Moscow. Olson made the difficult cold to teach the country's intelligence officers at University. As the on tradecraft, Olson says, engineer was textbook. In LinkedIn, you're prospective employers. And what the Chinese do is And they do it under the innocent sounding. Would China at our expense to do It's aboveboard, it's paid. They wine them and They flatter them. So far, none of that sounds That sounds like It's spying from the Chinese sizing this person up. They've got designs on that They're not satisfied with They want to get their They want to get into the trade secret realm. Prosecutors say that while bosses he's going to visit one crucial bit, which is He went on the trip and he was going to give this And that's what initially we GE and law enforcement taken company material to for the presentation. His material so sensitive, take it out of the country. After the FBI confronts him employee begins to So with the FBI, does is operation. They begin to the emails and the phone from the Chinese side. And it is a classic double The FBI uses the GE engineer met in China. Xu sitting over in China is communications that are posing as the employee are So Xu thinks the GE engineer He's moving in that But he's actually a double That's right. Xu begins testing the requests to the engineer to fork over. One of the things that Xu a shopping list of things This was a list of things from talking to other and government officials. So this is the wish list. This is the wish list. So Chinese version and then And so this is the actual He's asking for the types of using. He's asking design about the composite fan casing. Was there a moment where you the hump here, we have going to be able to To me, it was the request A laptop directory would engineer had access to. Files filled with GE's possibly the secret sauce He attaches instructions on Here's how you do it. Step document. Step two: open it content. So he's giving him instructions on how to send Yeah, and this is the type U.S. Companies nervous. This is exactly the steps want to copy your company China. China is one of the world's commercial aircraft, and Airbus for most of its The country has a manufacturer, Comac, but it The Chinese have since the their own aircraft first on collaboration with Western Almost all of those have Scott Kennedy of the Center International Studies has he was a college student The C919, which is supposed 737, everything that's in the air is American or So explain, if you could, Yanjun, stealing this piece Aviation fit into the trying to do. The Chinese have been trying on their own. There have have been looking for speak, to obtain this couldn't develop regularly And those are the spies. Yes. Creating their own perhaps Xi Jinping's top He has associated himself this mission. The political China in this sector is sky And it's part of a larger 2025. Unveiled in 2015 by listed ten high tech or China wanted to develop own domestic market and What areas do the Chinese Computers, phones, telecom vehicles, autonomous aircraft, biotech. Their wish list actually list. That's a plan to dominate Certainly the Chinese, I are not at the top, they're somebody else. But commerce is also part When China first opened up and the West in the 1970s, destination for low cost toys and other consumer American shopper's wallet. But as China's economy did, too. China has started to transition that all experienced. Wages start to move. Timothy Heath is a senior researcher with the RAND The current path that China They cannot keep making They are subsidizing them rate that the losses are debt is growing. If it fails to move up the will be faced with a and its prospects will be So if you can't develop it China is go out and steal Correct. And they have state power from the to the government to the acquiring the technology Senator Mark Warner, a Rubio, a Republican, are Intelligence Committee. They've been briefing U.S. business leaders about the 2018. Today, the world we live in, benefited from, the world some extent, was a world order. Now, if they are the 21st century, the responding to Chinese in and of itself over that policymakers can make The old notion of 20 years was, who's got the most guns is no longer the case. Who controls these data Who has the most advanced Who controls overhead Who is going to make the biology or controls next That is all within the security. And for some, like Xu enormous risks to obtain The FBI sends Xu a doctored GE employee. And what did Xu say when he Things changed pretty different respects. One, Xu reached out and on the phone, which he had Secondly, he was much more with our GE employee. Xu, sitting over there and This is going to be a be an intelligence coup. I'm going to get the engine looking for for a long time So he's excited. He's hungry. So at that moment, the FBI Yes. And their goal is to they can't get him. They can't get him in China. The FBI sent a message at work. Things are too I just can't get back to They're sending me to And that's when you're head that he needs to come Yes. And initially he didn't But when he sent the and we sent the directory the table for him. There was some negotiation would meet with Mr. Xu and Belgium. At the meet, the engineer is Xu will copy. But when Xu arrives at the Brussels, he's arrested In their possession, a phone from the GE engineer's including many of his Xu is extradited to the trial in 2021. What we tried to explain to to use the word trade specific guy who works in him to bring the whole copying it and you come the guy's family. Yeah, we know what your You were trying to steal And Xu made a critical prosecutor's case. He used an iCloud account incredibly kept a diary in the prosecutors were They learn shoes having personal issues. A few weeks before the GE that work, relationships the right direction. And there was one more found. Nobody's even seen this form That form there? Yes, he had taken pictures with the Communist Party. Walked through his work the MSS and all the with the MSS until he rose Division Director. So this is literally the That's exactly what it is. The United States has never before. Is that right? That's correct. He was not as professional been, particularly when he kind of risk. What does that tell you? It tells me that he was so reckless. Or was he just a lousy spy? I don't think he was a lousy his targeting and his professional. And when the did a really good job of playing him and moving him There was other electronic that Xu had targeted Boeing and Safran, a French joint venture with GE. While prosecutors didn't actually obtained GE's was convicted on four espionage and trade secret In November of 2022, he was federal prison. Xu's attorney declined our The engineer, David Zhang, by GE in early 2018. When asked to comment, Washington, D.C. issued a &quot;The Chinese government has supported anyone in any secrets,&quot; and &quot;We welcome U and other foreign companies market, share development for a stronger world GE Aerospace, Honeywell, companies. They either did request to comment. Are American executives are I don't think they're afraid I wish they were more a relationship with a established a Chinese And so you become, cases, more obliging to the We're not saying businesses at all, but we are saying careful. FBI Director Christopher Chinese spy agencies steal goal in mind. When you look at what China goal to compete with Or is China's goal here to companies? Well, their definition of embracing the idea of If you're basing what you t be on the assumption that to eliminate competition, I it's going to lead you to actually self-defeating. And I think you can come up sophisticated, smart you just simply to say what We are in essentially one of that we've experienced. Are you confident we can win Yes. Why? Ultimately, our values, our will prevail. But we need gas. What's the way for the espionage war? We have to wake up. We have to have a corporate America and U.S. counterintelligence. What torment every past or officer in the United caught them all.