In today's chess video, I will show you some e4, e5, knight f3, knight c6 and here we go This is the Ponziani opening. The idea for White is to grab the center after Some of the most popular moves you will see bishop to c5. Let's go over them one by one. First, let's look at knight to f6 with which We continue with pawn to d4, and now black He can take on e4 or he can capture this pawn something like d6. If he captures with the knight, then we push He can't go here because after b4, the knight Going back to b8 is just a waste of a move. So more often than not, you will see him going Now we regain our pawn and we reach this kind are lined up, just like this. Okay, so in this position, what would you Just think about it. I guess many of you are concerned about this that comes to our mind is d6, attacking the bishop. As per the database, around 80% of the players And if your opponent also plays this, then is not going to last long. We start with bishop b5 check. No matter how he blocks, we will finish him If bishop d7, then takes, takes &amp; his queen Going back, a logical move is to block with We take the pawn and now if he captures our like this, we first get the rook, then we sweety as well. And as you can see, we're completely winning Alright, going back, in this position, instead then we take with the knight, captures, captures, up this horsey as well. And now, as you can see, White is leading completely dominating this game. By the way, in this position, after we take cheeky with a move like queen b6, attacking But you need not worry, you can easily counter We defend the bishop, we block the checkmate After he blocks, we take the bishop. We force the king to move, taking away his We have an extra pawn &amp; if you evaluate this king safety, pawn structure &amp; even piece activity. The engine gives almost a 6 point advantage Anyway, let's go back &amp; look at some more We looked at how you can completely destroy What if he plays knight to g6, opening up This, in fact, is the best move for black. Look, he is offering to exchange knights &amp; this But here, instead of saving this knight, we We play bishop to d3, attacking this knight. So if he takes this, then we take his other Therefore, Black can try to act a little smart He is anyway going to lose this knight so the queen &amp; rook and open up the king. Makes sense, right? Well, if he tries to be greedy &amp; takes this Let me show you how. We're not going to take this knight, let We will take this knight instead, he takes The other bishop jumps into action, the king We don't care about the queen anymore, we'll Knight c4 check, king c5, the only legal move. Now simply knight to a3, defends his brother. He cannot take our bishop because then b4 And if you're thinking about eliminating Black is in a hopeless position here. If he plays any other move, you simply take &amp; of course, this king is completely naked. So yeah, you're absolutely winning this. Now let's say, in this position, your opponent So he does not capture the queen, instead Then you'll just simply take the knight That's an amazing trap, right? Alright, let's go back. Now I'll show you an interesting line from After knight takes, we push this pawn forward. The natural reaction is to somehow save this Black can play bishop to c5 giving up the After pawn takes, we have bishop f2 check. King moves &amp; the bishop can go back. Although white has a slight material advantage, now that this king is exposed &amp; he can't So this is something you can try playing as Let's check out a few more traps that white Instead of taking this pawn, black can straightaway A famous line goes as follows. D5, knight goes back, bishop g5, kind of threatening If he tries to be greedy &amp; takes this pawn, queen a4 check, it's a fork and its goodbye, Okay, now what if in this position, instead on d4. Well, then we push this pawn forward to threaten Again, attack with our queen &amp; finally, recapture Eventhough the material remains equal, I would So even if your opponent plays smartly, you Okay, let's go back to the initial position Here, we saw all the traps after the most Even if he plays any other move like d6 or to push for the center with d4. There is one exception though. If he plays d5 here, then its best to bring The idea is to defend this pawn, pin the knight like knight to e5, getting this bishop out, along this e file. So this is how you can setup your game depending Nevertheless, the Ponziani is an opening you And if you manage to trap your opponent using on Instagram. I would love to see them. You can tag me on Instagram &amp; follow me at Alright, so here's a chess puzzle for you It is white's turn &amp; you need to find the Do share your answers in the comments section Let's see how many of you can solve this. Guys, don't forget to Like and Subscribe and are showing up on your screen right now. Thanks for watching and I shall see you in