It's November on the Saint Croix River and we're on our way to something A secret cave overlooking the river mouth. And the depths of this cave No more. So we're paddling the river Oh, no. So let's stoke and brave the freezing November weather. This is tiny cabin life. This is the Saint Croix A national park and the historical significance We're pulling into the Osceola Landing, just outside of Osceola, Wisconsin, side of the river. Now, our goal for this trip is to paddle down the Saint Croix the largest of its kind lengthy passages There are two major challenges for us on this trip. First off is finding the cave. It's not really on any maps, to track it down. The second is making sure we stay warm It's November here in Minnesota to dip down below freezing. All right guys this is it. We're ready to go. And this is going to be a true adventure. You know I've done a lot of backpacking Paddling is a little more outside great. You know, this is an attainable And I'm really stoked to find this cave Our first goal is to get to the cave for about three and a half miles away. I want to note that which means there are a few extra rules one of which is that I'm not able to film So we'll just have to make do All right, guys, we are officially out And, so far, so good. Paddling feels good. Our gear after stowing nicely. I think we're set up for success here. The Saint Croix is a very significant It forms part of the border and runs a length of 169 miles I don't paddle rivers too often, such an awesome experience. There's just something and then you turn corners and there's It's just a sense of adventure when you're paddling lakes. So if you take a look over there, here on the river, you have to camp So we're going to be looking to the cave. This section of the river requires in designated spots And while the majority of the land is under the protection you will find little parcels as well. Well, guys, We've already made it over so I'm feeling really good. Ellie's having a good time, I decided to try and do some fishing Now, there are a lot of different species of fish like northern pike, walleye, bass, and muskies. Where I'm floating, the river is very, very shallow, deep, and nothing really seemed So eventually I decided the last little stretch towards the cave. We are within a couple hundred yards of where we're supposed So I'm going to start and we'll get ready to hop off. We made it. And I think I see the cave already. I think it's harder for people, when there's actual greenery, But right now, since It's just like, right up there. It feels good to be back on shore and to have finally reached And I know Ellie was glad to get a little swim in as well. The plan is to take off our kayaking gear and some flashlights, There's no trail leading up there. Just a semi beaten path who have been here before to. The cave here has a rich history, originally being used by Native Americans In fact, early explorers that was left behind. Later on, who actually stayed for an entire winter and at one point it was even used as Today, it's kind of a secret location surrounded by private land above the cave, Now, if you take a look, But from what I've heard about, there are some smaller rooms So we'll make our way back check it out, I've done my fair including the type and knees However, since I'm alone out here, clear of any tight spots. Weird. Up on the ceiling of the cave, here are a bunch of mosquitoes I found out that while months, like this during the winter. And then also, you got just a massive spider hanging out up there. Lots of creepy crawlers back here, that's for sure. So if you guys take a look at this, this is a crawl space that certainly leads deeper into the cave. Oh my gosh. In the light, you can see Do you see that spider? Oh. Oh my gosh. Now, you used to crawl into tiny spaces and some of my old adventures when you feel that, and you have no choice It tests you. But, man, it's an adventure The girl. We made our way which required Oh, man. So this right here, you guys, is the, furthest upward, And if you look straight ahead, it goes further. you could continue to crawl back there, but I definitely am not doing that. Not today. Wow. You guys check out the stalactites. That is incredible. What in the world? So that right there is a bat. And I bet you he is hibernating. We definitely don't want to disturb him, so we should probably, back out of here. Bats will enter a state of dormancy allowing them to reduce temperature in order to conserve This way, they're definitely more fragile So I'm glad I noticed this bat him any further. And how cool is it to know They left pottery behind. Settlers spent the winter in there And now we're able to paddle this river, and get in there and have just It's what makes our national parks And, I'm really glad to see that For continuing on to our campsite. I heated up a little bit of lunch Pretty soon And recently, we've been trying a new food on these sorts of backcountry trips. It's called Sundays, It's fresh, healthy dog food A lot of the other fresh foods that we've You gotta keep them in the fridge Well, Sundays can really be stored anywhere On backcountry trips like this, But make no mistake, we're not sacrificing Ellie's health They use an air drying process to be stored at room temperature, list of human grade ingredients 10% vegetables, and zero As you can see, Ellie loves the food. She gobbles it right down, and I can tell of a treat for her And you can see how easy it was I just had to put one serving into this bag, and it takes up barely And dog owners notice a lot of changes in their dogs Things like softer fur, better breath, throughout the day. Every order shifts right to your door, about running out of food. It's We're loving Sundays. So is Ellie, and it's the perfect fit So if you want to try Sundays all you have to do is follow the link and use my code TCL 60 to receive 60% off but make sure to hop on it because this deal will only last Just a little quick fuel It's crazy. This time of year It's going to go down before five. So I want to make sure we get a campsite we could set up You. While we're back on the water, the cave is disappearing in the distance And, next stop is going to be camp. I'm looking forward to, and relaxing a bit. While paddling, I noticed something making its way down the river. To me, it looks like a snake. And though we don't have many water I guess, here on the Saint Croix Just up ahead of us is a historic It was built in 1887 It was engineered to swing open, and then closed down again so Today it no longer swings open, and, like the cave, from the water. Now that we're through the bridge, peeled for campsites. I think we might have a campsite here. Yup, that's definitely one. All right, we're going to take it. All right, we made it. This is home for the night. I let Ellie out of the raft but as soon as I took one on, submerged in the river, Oh, no. Next to the banks of the river. There it dropped off to above my head. And everywhere I cannot believe that. And so I dumped my gear in the water. It's in dry bags. This stuff is at least. And then my camera's totally submerged. And, so is my phone. Just shows how things can go And I hope my my clothes are dry. If not, and not spend the night out here. Everything feels dry in there. Thank God this is all my other gear and my clothes. So I have dry clothes. After it was all said and done, the only casualty of the accident Which, don't get me wrong, But I suppose Now that I'm in dry clothes, it's time to get our camp set up. I decided to bring my ultralight It's very simple to set up. You just put down a few stakes, pop up the pole in the middle and it's good to go. I brought Ellie's insulated sleeping pad and her sleeping bag along, and then of course, a cot, sleeping pad and sleeping bag for me. And then finally for heat. While we're awake, I decided to be easiest buddy heater along. Well, think it's time for some more beef around. Solid again. I did just about anything right now. The moon came out, and Ellie As long as we possibly could. But eventually, the wood ran out and it was time to head inside the tent. Girl. Oh. We warmed up for a while by the heater, but before we knew it, it was time to shut it off and get some sleep. Beavers were like, And there are some other noises. And Ellie got a little freaked out, on the bed. Didn't get the best sleep. It was really rough. having Ellie up on the bed. But so it goes. You know, that's for sure. Not going to lie, you guys. I'm dreading having to tear and paddle that raft again. But of course, I had to do it. It was time to tear down the tent and pack up the rafts. All right, guys, the rafts are packed up Let's hope I can get into the raft. without slipping again. All right, I'm in. Let's get out of here. We had some extra time before we were supposed and so we took the opportunity to just float down the river. Taking it all. But eventually, we reached the landing, All right, we made it. It's called log House landing. And I have to imagine that the remains as to how it got the name. Well, we made it, guys. man, what an awesome experience this was. Being out on the river was just absolutely surreal. But also discovering that cave and It's so cool to know that there are hidden You just got to get out and find them now. As always, I want to thank our patrons It means the world to us. But to all of you who watch, and support You're the ones that allow us to be able and share them with you. So thank you so much Now, I got to get all this So I'm ready when Riley arrives. So we're going to end the video And as always, God bless.