Ah! Ah Shen Nian You're finally awake. Sister Wan'er How are you What do you want to do? What do I want to do? Of course I want to kill you I was originally the only little princess in the Shen family Brocade clothes and jade food Everything in the Shen family belongs to me But why did you show up But to part with me It's been half I ask why Shen Waner, you misunderstood. I just want to go back to my biological parents I didn't want to take away your favor Don't do anything stupid, okay? It doesn't matter what you think Now. As long as you die I am still the only little princess in the Shen family No! You can't kill me! Mom and brother won't let you go Haha, parents. Brother, didn't you notice? You have been in the Shen family for three years They've never looked you in the eye. In their hearts I am the only daughter of the Shen family Even if Shen Yi dies today They only care about me I'm their biological daughter Dear sister, they won't Ok hum Let's run a test. I have already called them. Look at them coming later To save your own daughter Is to save me Ahhh Come and save me Cui Cui, she wants to kill me Zixia, she wants to kill me Are you all right? Ah! Brother Zixia wants to kill me Please help me He tried to kill me. He tried to kill me. The twins are Shen Jiawei's daughters I don't deserve to be Shen Jiawei The door! How dare you Dad, it was me who obviously disconnected the Internet. Why should you believe Shen Wan'er Still wrapped in eyes How could Shen Qiang have a daughter like you? That's too little. Let's play now Leave him alone. Go go go fast fast Mom and Dad save me I'm obviously your daughter too Also your sister Right? Don't be afraid Uncle will take you out I never imagined that the end of my life would be you Not born Why am I here? I am not already dead I remember. I was ruthlessly abandoned by my good parents and brothers Finally, she was killed alive by Shen Waner Do I feel like I've gone back in time? Shen Nian, I ask you Did you hit the wound on the horse's face? Dad, I believe in my sister. He didn't mean to Don't blame him. He made your face turn red Why are you still defending him? Shen Nian, let me tell you Wan'er will always be our sister Even if you come back You don't even think about driving her away Since you came back It's either stealing from the house or bullying The family that adopted you before That's what it's called. Really uneducated Suspect that the paternity test report is false This girl has nothing to do with our family Chen Nian, let me ask you one last time Did you hit the sand on Wan'er's face? Sure enough, it's the same as the previous life I returned to the Shen family with a longing for my biological family I thought family reunion was the beginning of happiness But I didn't expect to be slandered by Shen Waner's green tea My good parents With my three older brothers It's useless how you explain it. In that case Then there is no need to explain I guess you're right. Shen Waner was called by me Spiritual Mind Shi Nian actually hit Wan'er in front of me So what if I hit Wan'er is your sister How can you be so vicious? In your eyes, I have been vicious for more than a day or two You just know You are enough Shen Nian really didn't expect it. It's so lawless Kneel down for me What if I don't kneel? Then I'll knock you down and kneel Since I returned to the Shen family Whatever his adopted daughter says Have you ever asked me if I am wronged? Did you believe me once? If you don't have it, what qualifications do you have to teach me a lesson? I went back to the Shen family despite my uncle's opposition Just to repay your kindness But I didn't expect that everything I said and did would be wrong In that case I won't report this promotion. I don't want any of your family either Thank you. How can you say that? I know you think I shouldn't be in this house If you are angry Just hit me I should hit you This slap hits you and the dove occupies the magpie's nest Rob my family This slap hits you Reverse right and wrong Disgrace my reputation This slap hits you viciously Kill me I don't care about everything in the Shen family that you want. Just take it Shen Yan, what do you want to do? Uh-huh. From now on, I will have nothing to do with your Shen family Aunt Shen You've been courting the Shen family for so long Didn't even eat a full meal Got a stomach bug Little uncle Nini Thank you for your support to our orphanage. Hey this kid This child's name is Shen Nian It's a sad thing to say. This child is usually very lonely in our orphanage Never contact with saints I have an unkind request. Can you two do good things to the end? The doctor said the child lacked family warmth Can you take him back for a while? Can you come home with me? Your parents are here to pick you up If you are wronged Remember to come back to me How did the little girl make herself like this? The Shen family said to treat you well How did you hurt you like this? Give you the Shen family No. Uncle, I want to go home Good little uncle will take you home In my last life, in order to please the Shen family I let down the one who really loves me In this life, my family only has my little uncle As for the Shen family Everything they did to me I will never forget it. Brother, you are finally back. What was hit by that little serious Shen family? Shen Nianna ran away from home after the wild bug beat the person What's going to be the college entrance examination soon? He ran away from home at this time Boss Pei has a contract here that you need to take a look at Uncle Xiao Okay. Let's go out. Pray quickly Warm your body Thank you little uncle Uh your clothes It was changed by the nanny Zhang who has been taking care of you. He also cleaned up your room for you. Same as before You can stay at Pei's house in the future The Shen family doesn't want you, I will support you Uncle, you are so kind to me. You were my man for four years As long as you stay in my Pei family Whatever you want Just ask Right, that one. After leaving Shen Jia What are your plans? The college entrance examination is in a week. I want to hurry up and prepare for the exam. Re-plan your life I heard that after you were forced to quit school by Shen Jia I haven't been to school in over a year The college entrance examination is only a few days away. So be it. I'll help you find some professors to help you with tutoring I know what you're worried about After I returned to the Shen family Have been influenced by them I didn't study hard But I have confidence I must get a good grade this time. Then don't put too much pressure on yourself. Even if your grades are not good I can support you for a lifetime In my last life, I was influenced by the Shen family Lost in the college entrance examination Ruined his life I will never make the same mistake again in this life I want to take control of my life Here you go. Don't be in such a hurry I'll send it to you. Nini Wan Wan Zhou Jian Nini Wan Wan and Zhou Jian are my best friends It's a pity that after I returned to the Shen family in my previous life Strictly asked not to socialize with former friends Since then I never saw them again. I didn't expect us to meet again in a box Come on. miss See you in text It's so good to see you. We will never be apart again in this life To be good friends for life I miss you leaving the Shen family Uncle Pei told us Did they bully you again? Yes tell us We help you out No, nothing else. I have nothing to do with the Shen family now I don't want to please anyone anymore I want to live my life from now on No matter what you do We all support you. We're best friends. Whenever We are all here Yes, we are good friends for life. Oh, right. This is the college entrance examination question book I prepared for you You must memorize it when you take it back, you know? College Entrance Examination Topic Book You want the college entrance examination Exactly. The college entrance examination is the easiest to change your life So I want to take charge of my life You must get good grades in the college entrance examination Remember what the head teacher told us? Of course I remember Remember that the Spring Festival has a way to end Active registration will not return The 2023 national college entrance examination is about to begin Please enter in an orderly manner Orgasm here we come Oh, dear. Good girl How about the college entrance examination these two days? Eat more and don't get tired Thanks dad There is still no news of Shen Dian, right? Brother, don't worry about him. That bastard Trying to scare him by running away from home Thought we would beg him to come back Just a dream Second brother is right As long as Shen Nian still thinks about the benefits of the Shen family I will definitely not be willing to leave the Shen family He wants to test our bottom line Then we'll leave him alone. Wait until he's done Come back naturally Wait for him to come back None of you can plead for him I must cure his bad habit Dad, maybe my sister is just confused for a while Wait a few days for the college entrance examination to finish. He came back by himself Oh, my dear daughter. He hit you? Are you still pleading for him? Even if you are half sensible He wouldn't have turned out like this Humph Is it you? Run away from home Not as headstrong as I thought But why light rain light rain young master Where does Shen Nian live? Miss Shen Nian's room is on the second basement floor The first one on the left? Isn't that a utility room? After the eldest young master and Miss Shen Nian come back I've been living in the utility room And the utility room is too small Can't even fit a bed Miss Shen Nian has been sleeping on the ground What has been sleeping on the ground? I've been sleeping on the floor. Exactly. Then I'll go and have a look. The eldest young master, Miss Shen Nian, is in a very bad situation at home Not only do you not sleep as well as the actress They couldn't even get enough to eat. How is that possible? The Shen family has a great career Nobody is ugly How can he have lunch? Young master, you are busy with work Often away from home So I don't know. But I spent a year with Miss Shen Nian I know his situation all too well Have a birthday A man claiming to be Miss Shen Nian's little uncle Brought a box of cakes Miss Shen Nian is very happy But then I don't know what happened. He not only didn't eat the cake I almost fainted from hunger birthday Cake Dad big brother Wan'er This is a cake my little uncle gave me Would you like to taste it? It's dirty, take it away Bring all the messy things home Throw it out throw it out This is what my little uncle made himself What? My words don't work, do they? Hey Give it Give it Give it Dad? But didn't I give him a cake later? Oh, you're talking about the cake in that box, right? But this cake has peanuts in it. Miss Chen is allergic to peanuts She doesn't want to throw it away It has been collected Even if it is moldy, it is reluctant to throw it away. I often stare at the cake in a daze She's allergic to peanuts I also treasured this cake for a whole year Xiao Nian, um, take this cake and eat it Cake you remember my birthday Thank you, big brother. This is what you gave me. The first gift I will definitely cherish it Happy Birthday What's wrong with you, sir? Light rain frees up a bedroom Move Shen Dian's things in OK But my lord and madam heard that it was me who said it. OK He ordered them to go down and do their best to find Shen Dian's whereabouts Let me know if you have any news. The eldest young master, Miss Shen Nian, is in a very bad situation at home Not only do you not sleep as well as the actress They couldn't even get enough to eat. big brother Why didn't you go to the company today? Right. I'm waiting for news from Shen Nian Second brother Shen Nian ran away from home for so long I contacted her. That woman has a vicious heart Almost got Wan'er's face How can I contact Brother, I don't think you need to worry too much about my sister. She was just afraid You don't appreciate the goodness of us all Wait until she figures it out Come back naturally He's a broom star If only there was a way for Wan'er You can't get kicked out of your house. It is better to die outside big brother Brother, why did you hit me? What are you saying wrong? I'll tell you what. Spirituality is also our sister Let me hear you say that again Don't call me big brother Hey second brother Are you all right? Oh, what's the matter with this big brother? I hit you today for my sister Should not Could it be that my sister said something to my big brother? Shen Nian complained in front of the eldest brother See how I treat you Hey second brother Where are you going? Today is the day when the college entrance examination is released My sister must be near the High School Affiliated to Jiang University You must not go to his father and brother Immediately go to Jiangda Fuzhong Let's go. We're also going to Jiangda High School Teacher, I'm here to get the college entrance examination transcript. Shen Nian, do you know how many points you got in the test? Out of 750 points You scored 720 points in the test You really are a genius. Teacher is out of prison It's all taught by you. City leaders have decided to hold a celebration party for you Invite the whole school And students. Parent Involvement I don't know if you have time. I listened to the school's arrangement Be neither arrogant nor impatient You must have a great future in the future Here's your transcript. Hurry up and take it back Thank you teacher I'll go first then. Such an excellent child How proud should parents be? Uncle, I got the transcript. How did you do? I took the test Oops, forget it. I changed my mind. You'll know in two days. Ah ok ok I won't tell you. The car is coming, I have to go to the reunion with my classmates See you. God, stop there Who are you stopping for me? let go Shen Ershao, do you have anything to do with me? Who are you pretending to be? You hit me and pretended to be innocent Are you still suing us in front of big brother? Don't you just want everyone's sympathy? You are simply vicious I told them I was anxious. Yes, sister. Even if you want to get everyone's attention You can't provoke the relationship between the eldest brother and the second brother Do you know The second brother was slapped by the big brother today because of you I see. So you listened to Shen Waner's words Came to trouble me on purpose Tell me how you want to teach me a lesson today Is it a forbidden place for me? Or slap me again? Shen Nian, you did something wrong yourself Climb less branches and get on the horse Wan'er is not as scheming as you are Sister, my second brother and I are all for your own good. You can't be ignorant of good or bad Shut up, I'll tell Shen Huaili And what's the matter with you? Shen Nian hit me in front of my face again Apologize to the horse you White is bad Miss Fairy was bullied Hello What trouble did Shen Huaili have to find Shen Dian? It will be suspended. I have to rush to get married as soon as possible. And what about the next few international signing conferences? Cancel all how Second Young Master Shen wants to do it again? Sure, come on. Fight Anyway, your Shen family did something to me It's become a habit Not slap me Just lock me up Make me kneel and don't let me eat It's gotta be done anyway Why are you looking for a reason? Shen Nian, why are you pretending to be innocent? Since Second Young Master Shen doesn't fight Then I'll go first. How to pretend to be innocent It's useless, start installing now It's pitiful to be sick Ok Shen Nian I'll tell you what. It's with me. You pretend to have nothing because You've always been a complete wolf Bullying me to steal my family's money Get everyone's sympathy You are vicious I'll tell you what. Even if you die I won't look at you too much at a glance Shen Huaili I thank you for being mean and stupid Let me lose the last trace of my feelings for the Shen family I'll tell you what. I'm not grateful to go back to the Shen family And I'm even less grateful for your sympathy If you come to trouble me again in the future Don't blame me for being rude Let go! You are simply lacking people I will teach my parents a good lesson today Stop, you dare to move my people impatient Uncle Xiao Shen Jiaqian read the account I'll calculate with you slowly. Brother, who is that man? Let him do it so easily Take that little beast away Did I ever tell you that? Lightning is our sister I won't let you teach him a little beast Big brother, he obviously made a fortune You go on like this Sooner or later you will regret it I don't regret it. Even if that woman dies I will never regret it Where are Shen Nian's family members? Shen Nian's family I am Nurse, I am Shen Dian's brother How is Shen Dian now? The patient has severe stomach problems Fortunately, the foundation is good Otherwise it's dangerous How did you become a brother? It's puberty. You can't even get him enough to eat? Sign it. I can't get enough to eat. Sign it! Ah, good. Wait a minute It was said that his only relative was his uncle Shuppesnian Which one of you is Pesnian? Which of you is Pei Four Years? I am Sign it. How is the patient? The doctor has treated him. Not too much of a problem. Can be discharged for observation Come with me. OK People don't even recognize me as a brother Is it really wrong? Little uncle is so late You must have skipped dinner to take care of me Little uncle is not hungry Brother, haven't you had breakfast yet? This is me Self-cooked eggs Big brother must be too busy to pay attention to me I want to be independent like a big brother in the future miss The doctor said you were malnourished Need to rest Go home with big brother Brother, whose brother are you? I have been in the Shen family for three years Isn't it all your fault now? You pretend to want me to continue to please you If you are not happy, you will lock me up Make me kneel No. Or are these young masters Shen tired of it? Now it's a new trick. The way you look fake now makes me sick. I really won't let go tomorrow This is the living expenses for your Shen family for the past three years 200 bucks a month. A total of 7,200 Now I'll give it all back to you. I want to go back to your Shen family, don't mind. Don't leave every year Touch him with your dirty hands again Don't want a damn hand miss Do you really not recognize me as a big brother? miss Big brother bought you a cake I know you're allergic to peanuts So there are absolutely no peanuts in this cake this time Don't worry, all your grievances in the Shen family over the years Big brother makes it up to you. Ice cream cake Master Shen is really attentive It's a pity that this flavor is what Shen Waner likes to eat And I'm standing in the hospital with a stomach problem. Do you think I can still eat it? I'm sorry With your false apology Get out of here! I never want to see you again! Don't want to see you Nini Nini Go away, lady Top 24007 in business How is that possible? Yanli, don't worry. I will give you all these years All the grievances suffered in the Shen family All investigated clearly Little uncle I heard you have some important signing meetings today Are you going to delay because of me? Not important. Uncle Xiao I really only have you Uncle Xiao is at your house Hey, Nini is back. Tell him to come over and apologize to Wan'er Otherwise he doesn't recognize the girl Dad Shen Nian He never came back. What didn't come back Oh, that should be money. Wait until he runs out of money. Naturally rolled back Hey brother Is this strawberry cake for me? Still my favorite ice cream flavor Your big brother always loves you. It must be for you. Dad Shen Nian has been coming to our house for three years You know what he likes to eat Are there any taboos? Why are you asking this? I suddenly remembered We Wan'er! Allergic to mangoes My favorite is vanilla ice cream Shen Nian to Shen Nian Mom Shen Nian He is allergic to peanuts Don't you forget I take care of big and small affairs at home every day Didn't treat him badly Know his taboo So what? Then every day, his meals are prepared everywhere in the kitchen Who are you pretending to be pitiful here? That is. Have you checked his room? You know he's been living in the utility room I can't get enough to eat all year round. Are you hungry for stomach problems? How is that possible? Our Shen family is not a small family. There are aunts in this kitchen preparing meals How could this Shen Nian not be able to eat? Must be lying again light rain Madam, go find the aunt in charge of cooking Expose the words of the temple forever Hello ma'am I am a nutritionist who specializes in cooking for young masters and young ladies Xiaoru Let me ask you something. What kind of food do you usually cook for the eldest lady? Mrs. Wei, every day Will follow strict nutritional standards for three meals Make special nutritious meals for Miss Wan'er To ensure her health and nutrition What about dessert? It will also be done according to the needs of Miss Wan'er For example, the ice cream that Miss Wan'er likes And peanut-flavored snacks So what did it look like? Who is Shen Nian? Shen Nian is the eldest lady just retrieved by our Shen family. Ah you tell everyone What kind of meals do you usually cook for the eldest lady? We only know the eldest lady of the Shen family Only Miss Wan'er Never heard of it. It's called Shen Nian Never heard of it. That is to say Shen Nian lived in the Shen family for three years Eat a bite of my home Am I not afraid that he will develop a delicate temperament? Why can't he cook by himself? Mom, do you want my exclusive cook? Let's cook for my sister in the future I can cook myself anyway What do you give? Here it is. Our kitchen is huge. Rice noodles have everything We Waner can cook by ourselves Shen Nian can't cook for himself? Who are you pretending to be pitiful here? But madam You ordered Said that he was afraid of Miss Shen Nian's poverty Dirty air in the house Except for the living room and utility room She is not allowed to go anywhere in the house She can't go to the kitchen I have already investigated Shen Nian has been eating in the school cafeteria all these years This is his meal card. meal card Hahahaha Does that mean he has food to eat? I mean I am his father How can a father not allow his daughter to eat? If it spreads like this, I won't die of laughter, haha. Yeah what did I say Our Shen family gave him money to charge the meal card Feed him? How could he not eat? This meal card only has a dozen dollars all year round He only has this money to eat every month This is what he earned by working part-time Later, my mother thought it was useless for him to go to school Force him to drop out He didn't have any money after that. And these Or all the money our Shen family has given him over the past three years 7,200 He didn't spend a penny. Give it all back to me now How could there be so little? I only give the finance to Wan'er every month At least 50,000 Miss him he I'm also training him Ask Finance to give him 200 per month. He's family Why don't you talk if you can't eat? He can go directly to the finance department to get the money. No one stopped him Madam I remember that Miss Shi Nie should have gone to the finance department. Look. I told you Madam Young Master, Miss Shen Nian Every time I get sick and can't go part-time Will go to finance The previous receipts are all here combine These are not receipts It's an IOU. It's all in the tens of dollars. It also says the repayment time. IOU Mom, I just want to know Tens of dollars, a few cents, and you need an IOU. Is Shen Dian family or family in our house? When did this happen? It always has been. I advise Miss Shen Nian to pay more for living expenses She said it was to exercise herself I don't want to cause trouble at home Song Zhenliang, our Shen family Time for what? Is it time to be unable to take out dozens of dollars? How is this mother? How did you become a father? Why don't you give him living expenses? you Mom and Dad We have never taken the initiative to care about Shen Ning Even his part-time job was told to me by Xiaoyu I really can't imagine How did he spend the past three years? You are blaming me I blame myself for not finding out sooner want Otherwise, things wouldn't have come to this All right. Cut it out. Go and fetch Shen Nian back to me Humph No wonder Shen Nian hates us so much Turns out everything happens for a reason But it's not too late. Before we hurt him that much I have to pick up Shen Ping quickly report Well, you can find my sister anytime you want. But this afternoon is my school's college entrance examination celebration banquet You asked all the parents of the students to attend I don't want to be absent But if you don't go And I got mad. Humph Forget it, although we are sorry for Shen Nian But the horse is innocent I'd better go to his celebration party first Good brother promises you Nice Young Master, what about Miss Shen Nian? Wait until I finish attending Wan'er's feast Go get the lightning back Miss Nian Nian How many points did you get in the college entrance examination? So mysterious Even Mr. Pei doesn't know Oh, Mom Zhang. Don't ask You'll know when we celebrate tonight Okay Why are you running out of sheet music? I'll go get a new one. Isn't this my childhood music book? The little uncle still stayed And pictures of me as a kid This photo It was taken when I first met you You were so old then All grown up now Since then We are dependent on each other 10 years Uncle said that you are more biological than me How nice my family is to me You will be a family from now on OK My only relative is my little uncle All right, the party's about to start There we go. Uncle, you have to get ready. My college entrance examination results I'll give you a big surprise. Okay, then the little uncle will wait and see. OK This time, Wan'er scored 690 points in the test. More than 20 points higher than the three-mode score Really nice. Mom and Dad, don't worry. This time I outperformed Sure to get it The city's top scorer Win glory for our Shen family hahaha Okay, okay, tell Dad what you want then. Dad bought it for you? Hmm haha Shen Nian, he still doesn't want to come back He wouldn't even take my calls. But after I attended Wan'er's celebration party I received it myself If you don't come back, you won't come back. So as not to embarrass our Shen family We have such an excellent daughter as Wan'er Mom That's enough. Dad? elder brother Mom and Dad elder brother I thought it was Shen Nian who came back But yeah. With his grades I'm not qualified to attend this kind of party at all That's right. Nian Nian also participated in the college entrance examination I wonder what his grades are like. Uncle Joe, here we are. It's inside. Shen Nian You finally know to come back Little uncle, go and sit inside first I'll come in to find you later Don't you need me? I can handle it myself Then I'll wait for you inside. OK grandma We already know what you suffered at home Mom and Dad also agree with you to come back I was going to pick you up Really? Then why haven't I seen Master Shen for a long time? What about people? You choose to attend Shen Waner's celebration banquet first Pick me up again, right? No, actually. I am in your eyes Shen Waner will always come first I will always be behind him Why? What makes you think I'll forgive you, Shen Huaijin? Nian Nian, listen to my explanation Hu Fei Nian, you said so much Didn't you roll back by yourself? Ms. Song, I think you misunderstood. I'm here today to attend the school's celebration party You also took the college entrance examination madam Miss Shen Yan not only participated in the college entrance examination And also at the same school as Miss Wan'er Then how come I never saw him at school? Back to madam You've always only attended Miss Wan'er's parent-teacher conference Never participate in Miss Shen Nian's Hmph, the parent-teacher meeting is to speak on stage Wan'er has good academic performance Unlike you, you only embarrass me Your mom said it well Shen Nian Don't blame us for always being biased. Treated you badly You don't even think about why we are like this. Take academic performance for example The top education that Wan'er received from an early age Academic performance has been excellent But what about you? It's not bad to be able to get into a college Your mother and I are both famous people How can we have the face to attend your parent-teacher conference? You can be sure that Shen Waner's grades will be better than mine Nian Nian, I know you don't like Wan'er But Wan'er's academic performance has been good You shouldn't punish her for that Chen Nian's quick punishment is a sign of the weak Welcome to all teachers, students and parents Come to our school's celebration banquet The celebration party will begin soon Shen Yan, take a good look How big is the gap between you and Wan'er? Let's go! I know you have grievances Not willing to admit defeat in front of my parents But you really shouldn't say better grades than at night This kind of big talk Mom and Dad will be more angry Master Shen You don't have to worry about me Hey, Teacher Shen Nian just came Celebration party You are the protagonist today protagonist Of course, you got a full 720 points on the test. unprecedented Just passed That's your parents' family, right? I am now Just tell them the good news. teacher They're not my family. My family is there. Oh, okay, okay. Hey. By the way, you have to speak on stage at the celebration dinner later Don't forget to thank your family I know, thank you, teacher. Welcome to the celebration banquet of this college entrance examination The scale of this celebration banquet is far greater than before That's because... Our school's college entrance examination There are unprecedented good results Broke our cloud city Even Jiangzhou's college entrance examination divergence record Become the champion of the college entrance examination in Jiangsu The creator of this college entrance examination record is Shen Qiang It's Mr. Shen's daughter We thank Mr. Shen Cultivated an outstanding talent for us Wan'er is really the champion of the college entrance examination Wan'er is really the champion in the college entrance examination Of course it's Wan'er Didn't the principal say it? The champion is the daughter of our Shen family Congratulations to Wan'er Thank you Wan Ma Thank you brother It's all taught by you Madam Young Master, there is more than one young lady in our Shen family And Miss Shen Nian He also took the college entrance examination. What nonsense? Students from slums like Shen Nian Don't learn martial arts How could the champion be him? light rain I know you have a good relationship with Shen Nian But the college entrance examination is the college entrance examination. Shen Nian never studied hard since she was a child Talent is not as good as Wan'er So he can't be a college entrance examination entrepreneur. Here we go. Please come up with the family of our college entrance examination champion Share this glory together play Let's go play together Dad got your light, go Hey boss, let's go together Nini, don't put too much pressure on it. It doesn't matter how many points you get. Little uncle raises you Don't worry, little uncle. I'll definitely surprise you this time. Hahaha oops Hello Principal Hello, Mr. Shen. Your Shen family But it added two years to our school I express my gratitude to you on behalf of the school Oh, what's the principal talking about? Pay attention to children's learning Isn't that what every parent should do? Our daughter? He has been someone else's child since he was a child What about his studies? Never bothered us Our daughter? This time, it's extraordinary It seems that our daughter is the champion of liberal arts this time Not just our liberal arts champion in Jiangzhou He is the number one liberal arts champion in our country It is also the pride of our Jiangzhou Your three older brothers I just won the champion in a single department. Our daughter? Very competitive this time We The Shen family has another top student Wan'er? Did you really live up to your father's high hopes? Dad? In fact, it is not difficult for me to take this grade Dear Leaders and Parents And class. Hello everyone today My daughter scored 690 points in the college entrance examination And the number one liberal arts champion in the country I want to donate another library to Jiangzhou high school What about the name? Named after my beloved daughter Wan'er Mr. Shen Shen Wait a minute, you said your daughter got a 690 on the test. It's called deep shit Yes, is there a problem? Hey no No, no. Director Zhang uh Adjust the transcript for me. What career is the champion of the college entrance examination? Shen Nian is impossible Why are the test results so good this time? Director Zhang, what's going on? Hey, principal This Shen Nian and Shen Waner are both surnamed Shen The parent contact information left at that time is also the same. That's a mistake. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. I remember now. Shen Waner 690 Second in the school Shen Nian 720 I don't know if it is the first in the school or the top performer in the national college entrance examination The little girl actually gave me a champion in the test Please invite Shen Nian to speak on stage Everyone applaud hahaha Ms. Shen Niansong Can I help you? Shen Nian, your grades are usually so poor How did you get a 720 score in the college entrance examination? So good grades say Did you cheat and plagiarize? Plagiarize Ms. Song I got a score of 720. No. 1 in the country Who can I plagiarize? Your usual grades can only be a poor college student How can it be done in just one week? Your score will skyrocket Okay, I'll tell you if you want to know. Once I went home with a perfect score You are afraid that Shen Waner's grades will decline sad Ruthlessly tore up my business You told me not to get too complacent Be low-key Shame to die Mom, I got a perfect score. Mom What are you so proud of? Proud that I didn't see that Wan'er's exam was unfavorable Are you in a bad mood? Take your test paper Go. Go back to your room. Go This uncomfortable Are you always here? Mom will still love you. You tell me. Don't be too complacent Be low-key So I will grant your wish. Hide your true self from now on How is that possible? Okay, okay. Shen Nian is also our biological daughter Ah, what else? He is now the champion in the college entrance examination Did you inherit the excellent genes of our Shen family? It's not a shame for our Shen family Yeah, Mom and Dad Although Nian Nian is angry with us But family can't change Now he has become the champion of the college entrance examination Also give a speech to thank the family We should sort it out. Share the honor with him I guess you're right. This evil girl can pass the exam That's what we were born to teach well When I speak later I want to say it well How naughty my child has been since he was a child How much effort did we put into cultivating him? I got today's results I would like to thank my family the most. Without his love and support There is no me today So starting today I will try harder. Become the pride of your family Here are Shen Nian's family members Mr. Pei Shinian Pei took the stage to speak Please invite Shen Nian's uncle Mr. Pei Shinian Pei took the stage to speak No wonder the little girl lied to me for so long It turned out to be such a big surprise for me Did I say that? It will make the little uncle the envy of the parents in the audience Okay? Come on, come on Come on, say something. everyone Never mind. I actually don't care how many grades I get on the reading test I just want him to be healthy and happy for the rest of his life The wedding banquet is over There we go. OK Stop Shen Nian, we are your biological parents You got the top spot in the college entrance examination Shouldn't we be the first to thank you? How can you talk to a stranger? Mr. Shen, you didn't remind me I forgot. I have one more thing to do today In front of everyone today I have an announcement to make. I used to be the biological daughter of Shen Qiang and Song Chunling Lost at the age of 3 Retrieved at the age of 15 13 years missing I can't fit into this family anymore Now under their knees I already have a well-behaved and sensible adopted daughter But my appearance made them very unhappy. So I decided. Cut hair and fiber From now on, I will end my righteousness with you Shen family I know you have a grudge against us But we all know your grievances The words have been spoken Why did you do this? Shen Huaijin, this is my decision Nothing to do with you But we are a family whose blood is thicker than water Are you sure you want to spend your life with this man? He is not related to you Can he be honest with you? Shen Huaijie, you are enough In the world, your Shen family is the least qualified to say me Little Uncle Shen Nian You're breaking up with us for a stranger? You are so stupid. Mr. Shen Although you are Nian Nian's biological father Do you know how old he was when he changed his teeth? Do you know when he started school? Do you know how many awards he won in school? How many times have you been sick? Although I am not related by blood to Nian Nian But I can guarantee it. I've only been nice to her my whole life What is enough It is his right to choose God I have no right to interfere Little uncle Let's go Wan'er's second brother is late I heard that there was a champion in the college entrance examination today It must be our Wan'er Wan'er What's wrong with Wan'er? Isn't he the first? Wan'er scored 690 points in the test 690 is not the champion of the college entrance examination Who is the champion of the college entrance examination? Shen Nian When did 720 Shen Nian achieve such good grades? It turns out that we have been Only care about Wan'er I completely ignored Shen Nian's academic performance I don't even know what he has suffered No wonder he hates us so much That's impossible. No matter how angry he is Impossible So easily give up the benefits of our Shen family There's something wrong with this. No matter what the trick is Now Now Everyone knows that Shen Nian wants to cut ties with us I think that's a fact. Humph Hey wait for me Oh dad It turns out that prejudice really kills a person Uncle, we're not going home What are you doing here? fool This is our home. Welcome home miss What the hell is going on? This is my surprise for you Miss, you only know that Boss Pei does business But he didn't know that Boss Pei's worth was already 100 billion Assets are spread all over the world This villa is one of the assets in the name billionaire You and I promised Must make good money Let Nian Nian live a good life Assets large and small have added up over the years It can almost make Nian Nian worry-free Little uncle Why didn't you tell me earlier? I originally wanted to treat him as a surprise after your college entrance examination I didn't expect you to win the exam Also gave me a surprise I see. We call this a heart-to-heart hum. Congratulations on my entry into the adult world Thank you little uncle Mr. Shen, this is Shen Nian's old mobile phone The code has been deciphered Mr. Shen, you have been staying in the company The body can't take it anymore Why don't you go home and have a good rest? For the first time, I felt that home It's breathless. A place like this. Shen Tian actually stayed for three whole years Uncle, let me introduce you to you. This is my eldest brother Shen Huaijie The name is very nice People are also very handsome Or the president of the company? Don't be jealous It's 5 a.m. Big brother is going to have a morning meeting later. So I made him a nice breakfast. Big brother will be happy to see it. So I'm going to document this historic moment Brother, this is the love breakfast I made for you. You try it Wan'er is losing weight recently This kind of meaty food is not allowed at home Pour it all down But I did it myself! Little uncle My big brother negotiated a new big project today He's 28 years old. He is already a nationally renowned entrepreneur Oh look You see you see He's all over the news. I've watched it over and over several times. I'm about to memorize it In the future, my eldest brother will be my role model I also want to be a good person like him Oh, right. Today is Big Brother's birthday He is still working overtime at the company I'm going to make a cake myself and send it to him My brother is allergic to skin You can't eat mangoes. Like me, very picky mouth So I'm going to make him an apple flavored one I wish him peace Happiness Buy that cake and make it yourself Security brother I'm really your CEO Shen's sister I just came to bring him a cake Just let me in Mr. Shen has only one sister Her name is Shen Waner You little girl Where is it cool, stay and go Brother, just let me in big brother Brother, today is your birthday. This is the cake I made for you by hand. Try it. The company is not a place where you can come and mess around. Go back big brother Haven't eaten yet Let me have some big brother Leader, can I really eat it? If you don't eat it, throw it away If you don't eat it, throw it away It's all my fault Does your family like the cake that little uncle taught you to make? Yes, our whole family likes it. Especially my big brother He ate all the cake Also praise me and praise my craftsmanship No wonder Nian Nian is so determined to follow us again sever ties Turns out we didn't just snub him And I blamed him when he broke up It's all my fault I hurt you Mr. Pei The lady's complexion looks much better these two days Zhang Ma, you don't know I call it being happy and refreshed Colleges and universities have offered olive branches to me Fighting to let me go to their school is amazing Have you decided which school to go to? If I say I want to go to a school that is more efficient Don't go to school Anyway, there is money at home That doesn't work, you still have to learn I'm going to fulfill my designer's dream. I have written so many songs since I was a child I thought you wanted to be a composer I want a composer too Designer I want too It's a rare time in life I want to do what I want to do Do it all again Fine. I'll work hard to make money, then. Support the dreams we miss Good lady There's a guy outside who calls himself your big brother want to see you Why did big brother bring me here? I don't want to see Shen Nian I miss you for finally being willing to see me Speak up I'm not familiar with Master Shen This is the cake I made for you with my own hands Or your favorite pineapple flavor Shen Huaijin, don't put on such a flattering appearance Huijing is not the one who couldn't get enough to eat Shen Nian, I don't need your care either. Haven't you heard a word? Belated love is shallower than grass So get out of here with your fake kindness Brother Shen Nian kindly made a cake for you What's your attitude? let go Come go out Shen Nian forgot what her last name was Don't you really want to go back to the Shen family? I have signed the divorce letter From now on My surname is Pei, not Shen All the harm you have done to me I will never forgive big brother Brother, you have stomach problems again. I'll get you medicine. Hey big brother Sixth Aunt, you are too much You want to make this cake Didn't eat all day Tired stomach problems He didn't appreciate it at all Don't blame you. All the harm you have done to me I will never forgive Hey big brother big brother Dr. Shen, your brother is fine It's just a stomach problem. Add emotion He just passed out Let him rest well You'll be fine when you wake up. Dr. Li, please Treating stomach problems, you are an expert in this field, don't believe it This Shen Yan is so cold-hearted That attitude doesn't treat us as brothers at all More like an enemy gorgeous How come? Your big brother is fine in my arms Why did you suddenly faint? Mom, I heard that the eldest brother went to find his sister. My sister doesn't know what she said Big brother fainted in a fit of anger Is that what Wan'er said? I'm pissed off. Shen Nian again Since he came back to this house We have no peace He is really the nemesis of our Shen family Mom, is there any misunderstanding? After all, the eldest brother is the biological brother of the elder sister. I have signed the divorce letter From now on My surname is Pei, not Shen What misunderstanding can there be? He always pretends to be pitiful Big Brother Selling Death must have been deceived by him Now big brother is lying in the hospital bed Dad don't worry Anyway. I will definitely find Master Shen Let him give an explanation Hey, did Shen Jian find it? The second young master found it Miss Shen Jian is in the mall I'm going to catch Shen Jian now Let him apologize to big brother Miss, on this day your two brothers came to see you I didn't bully you, did I? Qiao Ma, don't worry. I'm not bullied as much as I used to be They can't get anything from me This tie is nice It must be very suitable for little uncle What do you think? The lady's eyes are good Get out of here Miss, this group looks menacing It's not easy to mess with, it looks like you You knocked your brother out and sent him to the hospital I still have the mind to go to the mall Second Aunt Shen You Shen family really like to pour dirty water on me What does Shen Huaijin's hospitalization have to do with me? You dare to call me big brother directly It seems that I don't care if I teach you that your wings are hard for a few days, right? Hurry up and go back with me and apologize to my brother. Then you go back and ask Shen Huaijin. Do you still dare to accept my apology? You make big brother angry Call big brother by name There is no distinction between superiority and inferiority No rules Now go back with me immediately and apologize to my brother Then I'll say it one last time I am worthy of Shen Huaijin More worthy of the Shen family I will never apologize Ok, very good Since you don't follow the rules Then don't blame me for being ruthless Hey, tie up the sword for me Hey what are you doing Let go of my lady Miss What are you doing? Take it away from me Let go of me and I'll go by myself Miss Miss Sir, I'm sorry. The lady was kidnapped Brother think Is there any discomfort? I had a dream. Dreaming of missing you But I dreamed of him in my dreams He ignored me. It's because of that Shen Nian again Brother, don't worry. This time Shen Nian made you faint Don't let him go easily What do you mean? Somebody bring him in for me Master Shen You are sick enough He even tied me to the hospital to apologize to you Not thinking hard Apologize to my brother quickly. Otherwise, I will teach my parents a good lesson Oops shut up Brother, don't worry This bastard has a stinky problem out there If you don't discipline It's impossible. Discipline Me Returning to the Shen family for three years My sacrifice You can't see my grievances. Ok Any time I do something that doesn't go your way It will be infinitely magnified by you Accuse me of being ignorant Scold my little family Can't get angry Isn't your discipline enough after all these years? you I thought of you as family How do you treat me, I recognize it all But now. I have severed ties with your Shen family What qualifications do you have to discipline the Shen family? Uncle, why are you here? Are you all right? I'm fine, don't worry. Mr. Shen, I told you If you Shen Family dare to hurt Nian Nian again I won't let it go Take care of yourself Let's go back. Linlin don't go Uh-huh. Uh-huh. The eldest young master is not good More than 50% of the company's partners have announced the termination of the contract Our capital chain is about to break. It's all my brother's fault Brother, I finally tied him up This bastard hasn't apologized to you yet You let him go so easily Humph Nian Nian is our sister Not below Are you human when you tied her up? I'll tell you one last time Don't call her a bastard Brother, what's wrong with you? What is she used to giving you? You talk to her everywhere Huaili Have you been to Nian Nian's room? Shen Nian has been in our house for three years Live in the basement I don't even have my own bedroom Parents are indifferent We ignore Didn't even give him pocket money I can't even eat. The family does ignore him sometimes Let him suffer some grievances But even so It's not entirely our fault. He doesn't say how we know I will pretend to be pitiful to attract your attention Don't complain to us That's because he's sensible. We can't pass the buck on him being sensible. He courted us everywhere But we have suffered so much grievance because of our prejudice But what about Wan'er? It's easy to get the love of the whole family This is unfair to Shen Dian, right? Brother, are you blaming Wan'er? What did Wan'er do wrong again? I don't blame anyone. Just blame me for not being early Click to discover it all This is an old hand tool that Nian Nian used when she was in our house You'll understand when you see it. It's me who should apologize I'm tired, you can go This phone belongs to Shen Nian As long as you read the content inside, you will understand We should apologize. Show me how I can apologize to him Please sit in your arms Dean, you are looking for me Hai Hai, you have been doing well at work recently. Several tricky medical cases All conquered under your leadership He was also involved in medical research. Achieved historic results I have asked my superiors for instructions. Awarded you the highest badge of honor in medicine That's the one so far A level honor that no one has ever received That's right, as expected of the person I like Give our hospital a long face Dean, you are wrong In fact, over the years Every time I encounter a medical problem that is difficult to overcome They all asked one of my masters for advice. If it was him I could never have achieved such a high level of success You mean you still have expert guidance behind you Do you know who the other party is? Tell the truth My master and I have always communicated on our mobile phones Never met in private 3 years ago, I made an appointment with my master once But he said his identity should not be revealed Once exposed It may cause harm to his family The master has such high attainments in medicine If the identity is exposed Sure to be pursued and loved by countless people But he would rather give up these thousands of honors for his family This relationship is really rare My master has excellent medical skills Emphasis on love and righteousness Sansheng is fortunate to be able to be his family It's only a hundred miles This award But it's an incredibly important moment in your life You can take this opportunity to make another appointment with your master Maybe he will agree to you. I'll send a message to Master right now Ask him to meet Master, thanks to your 3 years of careful teaching and cultivation I now get The highest medical honor award I want to see you Thank you in person What's wrong with acting so torn Three years ago, I had a student. He is very talented in medicine We've been in touch all these years. What problems does he usually have? Will also ask me at the first time He has now received the highest honor in medicine He wants to meet me. Why don't you want to see him? Not really. He was the three years I returned to the Shen family One of the few emotional sustenance But my identity is too special I'm afraid that exposure will bring danger to the people around me That's true! Who would have thought That year at the International Medical Competition The mysterious doctor who won the gold medal It turned out to be an ordinary person And it's on the international hacking list. Top hackers who are feared and hunted down. Uncle, you also know my identity The fewer people who know, the better. Do whatever you want Leave the rest to you. Then you mean I'm going to meet this apprentice Go, one more person can love you Very happy OK I promise to meet you Tomorrow at 3pm. Jiangzhou Skylark Cafe See you soon. My master agreed to meet me And we're still in the same place. Master, I'm at the coffee shop I'm at the first table on the terrace Wearing a white shirt grey vest There are two medical books on the table All right. I'll be right there. Master is the person I respect the most I must make a good impression on the master Window bracelet No. 3 White Shirt Villa My apprentice turned out to be him I thought about 100 kinds of apprentice identities But never thought The disciple I have been teaching with my heart It turned out to be the second brother who wanted me to die I seem to be lost. Can you take a picture of your surroundings for me? Master, where are you now? Want me to pick you up Who? Why are you here? Why is the cafe opened by Shen Ershao? Only you are allowed to come to Buxiu My situation Big brother has stopped talking I know you suffered a little grievance in the Shen family But that's not a reason to be pushy It's not the reason for you to hurt big brother Big brother thinks of you everywhere You didn't see him for a day I told you before. I have cut ties with the Shen family Even if your Shen family dies It has nothing to do with me Ok Shen Nian This is what you said. From Now On It has nothing to do with my Shen family anymore Exactly. I, Shen Bai, don't want to have anything to do with people like you I would love it. This white eye It was in vain to delay my meeting with Master Why hasn't Master arrived yet? Shen Nian, I will call my master Why is your phone ringing? Yeah, I'd like to know why. Why did my carefully taught apprentice It turned out to be Second Young Master Shen who had always wanted me to die That's not possible. Shen Huaili for three years When I carefully teach you experience You dislike my petty family Not on the table When I pulled you out of your career slump You push me into the abyss step by step When I taught you to heal and save people You tell me to die again, remember? This is impossible You must be lying to me. Shen Huai from now on You and I are like this cup grace and righteousness get out of class Apprentice's class is over for today get out of class get out of class I could never be my master Yeah. Phone. Find the phone You can know if Shen Yan is my master or not The clothes are missing. Dr. Shen Did you lose something important? Everything in the bucket has been collected uniformly. Where did you receive it? Where did you receive the trash? It was collected in the big trash can downstairs. pick up trash Dr. Shen usually speaks softly If you lose anything important, you will be in a hurry. Is that so? Oh, dear. Is Shen Yan really a master? If what he said is true In this phone There will be The chat records between my master and me over the past three years How is the apprentice's work today? master I had a super troublesome surgery today Full of harvest My apprentice is so smart Master, the patient's situation and surgical plan I sent it all to you. How about this plan? Hey, my stupid apprentice! Your surgery plan Overlooked a very deadly problem Listen to me. I still think it's a little strange for you to call me master We just met online by chance And I'm only 18 Why don't you call me master? No, fame and fortune have nothing to do with age Now that you've taught me art Then I should call you Master Anyway, I have identified you as a master Well, starting today We will become teachers and apprentices Apprentice Any advice? Wrong wrong It was all wrong when I always respected my mother But my own sister who was disliked by me Uncle, today is the weekend. I'm going on an outing with my second and third brothers This is after I returned to the Shen family Playing with my family for the first time I'm really looking forward to it. Why don't I remember going on an outing with Shen Nian? Hey, have fun going out today? Everyone is here Everything is packed Here we go. OK, let's go. Second brother wait a minute Shen Nian, why are you here? You forgot something I have mosquito repellent for everyone Disinfectant and a warning medicine cabinet Don't make trouble with these things, the servants are ready Do you have anything else to do? Second brother, let's go on an outing as a family Where do I sit? You saw it too I can't even sit in the car You are at home waiting for me to come back. second brother It turned out that I not only scolded Drive away and even do something so cruel to him thing Nian Nian went on an outing with her family today Did you have fun? Hmm happy This is the happiest day I've ever had. During the day, our family went on a picnic. In the evening we gather together for a barbecue The second brother also gave me the first skewer that was baked Just like when I was a kid. He also said that no matter where I want to go in the future Will take me with them By the way, little uncle Let me introduce you to my second brother My second brother's name is Shen Huaili He is a gentle and modest gentleman He was a lifesaving doctor. A pair of hands can pull a patient back from hell He is nice to everyone. Better for me Dr. Shen has a girl named Shen Nian Looking for you brother Shen Yan It's raining outside So I brought him here Dr. Shen, is he your sister? He's my nanny. Not my sister. And this idle person Do not bring it into the hospital Oh yeah. Dangdang Uncle, did you see that? The first prize in Jianghai Surgery belongs to my second brother You see, my second brother not only has a lot of trophies And he has also attended academic lectures Have you been on TV? Oh, right. You go to the 27th minute of the 12th issue of today's news There is an interview with my second brother You must watch it. You can't ignore it. Oh, right, right. Let me show you this is my second brother Photo with the world's top surgeons Do you know how powerful the second brother is? work hard Who let you into my studio? Brother, I just wanted to see your award Show off to friends go out No, don't come in Wait a minute. What did you touch? And I'm a neat freak. People like you don't touch my stuff I feel dirty. Sorry second brother I won't touch your things again Go away It's all my fault It's all my fault. Sorry dad I lost my sister Son knows wrong big brother You're out of the hospital? It seems that you have seen the secret of the mobile phone. Brother, I just found out. The master I have always respected is Niannian He has lived with me for so long I didn't know he was so talented in medicine Already ready on your own But now I've messed it up. Remember when Ding Ning first came to this house Around us every day Follow the warmth behind our butts Brother's name We still hate him so much Second brother second brother I'm in medicine I saw an interesting case Do you want to take a look together? Look at your IQ Second brother, you have worked hard Have some fruit! presumptuous Second brother, look I got a perfect score. You see you see I'm tired at work Can this little thing bother me less in the future? The second brother is a neat freak I don't like cut fruit. I must remember in the future Second brother, I will try my best to be the sister you like. I will never embarrass you. second brother I remember you told me before I got lost Never let me shed a single tear Second brother, you broke your promise But I will forgive my second brother 99 times If my second brother ignores me again I completely ignore you Daddy is brother I'm sorry brother hurt you. Big brother, I dare not read the content of the editor again We are now only enduring 1/10,000 of the pain we face. These are our punishments. We should accept Little uncle Guess what I found in my warehouse? Dangdang a card issuance You see this before I got lost when I was a kid What about the birthday present my second brother gave me? I thought I lost it. I didn't expect to find it today This time, I must collect it well. Never lose it again Celebrate me on your birthday Come come I wish our little princess Waner a happy 18th birthday. Thank you second brother I know my second brother is the best for me By the way, parents Is today also my sister's birthday? Today is also my birthday Birthdays are just a ceremony But it doesn't matter. But second brother Didn't you promise me every birthday? When did you say Stop pretending to be affectionate with these made-up words It's just a birthday Every year Not bad for this one Why do you have to argue with Wan'er about everything? Second brother, don't blame my sister After all, we forgot our sister's birthday. But I can give my sister my cake Wan'er Wan'er Wan'er Where is my sister hurt? Even if you don't like the cake I gave you I can buy it for you again. You don't have to push me I didn't push him. Obviously his own A good birthday was made like this by you Are you satisfied now? Second brother, I didn't push him. Why did you hit me? How dare you argue Well, since you don't understand Shen Jiani will go to the warehouse to face the wall and think about it now. Reflect on it Third brother third brother Mom and Dad, why don't you go soon? Brother, I really can't stand it. Nian Nian gave me a chance I am the one who made him what he is now It's us It's us who push our thoughts into the abyss step by step I'm going to apologize to him. I want to make up for all the harm I have done to him before I must make Nian Nian forgive me Broken strings are hard to continue Broken mirror is difficult to reunite Once there is a crack in the center of the circle It can't be fixed anymore If the company encounters an unknown attack, it will check it. Don't bother me Brother Tian is not coming back Are you back now? He still hasn't come back. I went to find him. He doesn't want to see me at all Can't we really go back? Why is this cup broken? I've already spelled it out No, no. I can definitely put it back together big brother Second brother, I heard from the servants at home that you have been here these days I don't even go to work Just to please that cheap girl Shen Nian Shut up third brother Shen Nian is also you I won't allow you to say that in the future Big brother Shen Nian What the hell did that woman give you? Let your second brother become like this You can see for yourself by looking at Shen Nian's mobile phone. I advise you not to bully you in the future So as not to follow in the footsteps of me and your second brother I'm not looking at your phone It must be a show again See it or not But I hope I don't regret it. Brother, don't worry. I will never be like you and your second brother I can't possibly regret it. Yo, what a special day is today? You three brothers are at home What other day could it be? Big brother and second brother's confession day To apologize to Shen Nian Big brother and second brother don't even care about work Forget it, forget about these unhappy things Mom, how did you go on a trip with your parents this time? Of course I'm happy. I also prepared gifts for my eldest brother, second brother and third brother What is this? This is the tie I bought for my eldest brother. This is my invitation to an internationally renowned designer. Customized acupuncture bag for second brother And this is a headset I specially customized for the third brother. And microphone How did it go? Is there any Shen Nian? Ha no Well, Dad bought me a lot of gifts How about this skirt for my sister? This skirt is pretty Shen Ye is also the eldest lady of the Shen family She shouldn't want what you want. Big brother and second brother Do you think I took my sister's place? Then I'll go get my sister back now. I went to beg her to come home That should make you happier. Baoer Baoer Big brother and second brother, how do you like Shen Nian? I don't care, but if anyone dares to bully me I will never sit idly by No. Big brother and third brother have such a deep prejudice against Niannian I'm afraid it will hurt you Drop you Chen Nian, stop for me What's the matter with you? I didn't expect you to be so skilled now Let the big brother and the second brother revolve around you how Seeing the attitude of Shen Huaijin and Shen Huaili You panicked Shen Nian Don't take yourself too seriously. I have been in a relationship with my three older brothers for more than ten years It's not something you can compare overnight Now your parents love three older brothers Believe that even if you die They only care about me Your parents love your three brothers I only believe that even if you die You only care about me King I know what you're up to You just provoked me on purpose Let me hit you in front of Shen Huaizhou Is that right? I satisfy you What's the matter You stop me Wait a minute, are you alright? Shen Nian, do you dare to bully me? Even if you have big brother and second brother to support you I will never let you step into the Shen family Shen Nian, you are crazy Hit me, I'm your brother How do I know now that you are my brother? When you hit me just now for this Yang Yu Why don't you say you are my brother? We save fast recruitment Come home with me. Look at the cup, I've twisted it. Shen Huaili, I don't want to have anything to do with Shen Jia anymore Please go back and tell the others. Don't appear in front of me again I really can't go back Brother, why did you stop me just now? You didn't see it. How did that wild girl treat Wan'er? She dared to attack Wan'er in front of us Not necessarily many shady things have been done behind the scenes Silly Zhou Shen Nian is our sister And he's fine. I know very well what kind of person Shen Nian is No matter before or after My sister Shen Huaizhou is only Shen Waner Shen Huaizhou, have you really known Shen Nian? This is the phone he used when he was in our house I suggest you take a look at what's inside Save yourself regret later I find his things dirty Shen Huizhou, if you can save it sooner Maybe Shen Nian still has a little nostalgia for our family No. I'm also taking the doll to the charity auction Whatever you want Why did this bumpkin come to the party? I heard he is also going into the entertainment industry His backer specially brought him to the cocktail party Recommend each boss in the entertainment industry to him waste of resources Can he sing or act? Don't look down on him I heard his song was picked up by some top boss Even invite him to join the team He was favored by the top boss Does he know staff? Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the charity gala This evening is a fundraiser for people with depression We have invited a special guest for this purpose I'm going to play for you. Shen Nian This organizer's vision is really poor Let Shen Nian play grandstanding There's no need to attend this kind of wine party, let's go Third brother, I feel a little uncomfortable Let's go home. Shen Nian, why do you play this song? Why does Shen Nian play this song? Shen Nian, why on earth do you play this song? Shen San Shao, what do you think? Third brother this song In fact, didn't you steal Wan'er's submission? Shen Ning You lied to the eldest and second brother in this way, right? Now you steal Wan'er's tunes Just to get my attention Then you are wrong Have you ever doubted Shen Waner? This song was specially composed by Wan'er for me How could I possibly doubt her? Mom Shen Nian impersonates you And now he's lying that he wrote it Can you come on stage and play for everyone? Tell everyone Who is the true creator of this song? Brother, this song is of great significance I don't want to play anymore. And I don't want to bring up your sad past Mom, I know you're doing it for me But I've let go of what happened before now I don't even want to see your work Overrun by some bad people You can rest assured to play on stage The third brother will protect you But I, Shen Waner Since Shen Huaizhou asked you Why don't you go on stage and play something? You push three and four Are you afraid? Annie Annie Annie Annie Let's talk about who is afraid of who? third brother I haven't played this song in a long time If I don't play as well as I used to Will you be unhappy? Don't worry, the third brother will never dislike it. That would be fine. Wan'er, why are you playing the piano now? Completely different from back then third brother What do you mean? Let me tell you why. Because the piece itself was not written by him The real principle is here This piece was composed by Shen Nian Impossible this is impossible three Brother, listen to me explain I'm just worried about your situation. And I'm afraid you'll get sicker I didn't mean to, third brother. Shen Huaizhong, have you really understood Shen Nian? This is the phone he uses in our house. I suggest you take a look at what's inside Save yourself regret later Phone pair Someone must be reading on that phone Let me see if Shen Nian is lying Third brother, listen to my explanation Third brother, don't go third brother husband Didn't you go to a charity event? What are you doing here? Where is Big Brother Shen Nian's mobile phone? I need to see his phone now What is Huizhou looking for? That was him? The creator of this song is really mysterious What the hell is going on? big brother I made a mistake. The creator of the song is Shen Nian He was also the one who encouraged me I made a mistake. I got it all wrong. We already know that. No. You don't know. I don't know what comforted me The person who gave me hope to survive was Shen Nian It was he who kept encouraging me Supporting me made me give up the idea of suicide again It gave me the courage to get back to the top But what did I do I hurt Wan'er again and again for her sake I'm really not a thing You you Why aren't we? Is there really no way to recover it? Once human biases arise It's hard to get rid of. Besides, Nian Nian must hate me now No, it won't. I treated her like that She is willing to help me Encourage me now we know we were wrong How could she not forgive us? To the secretary As long as I know the debt I once owed to Nian Nian I can make up for it the same way Nian Nian will definitely forgive me Skinny, you don't know my third brother, do you? My third brother is the top of the explosion Still my idol You can see the poster of my third brother in the streets and alleys I also bought every one of them A ticket to a concert The third brother is so handsome on stage Concert tickets are not cheap Does Shen Jia give you enough money to spend? Of course it will be given. And my third brother pays me a lot of money every time Uncle, don't worry about me. Sorry. It's my brother who is wrong Let's take a look at the other content on the phone This is our millennium Start saving your first money today. I believe it won't be long I can save enough money to go to the third brother concert Have a bun for breakfast Two steamed buns for lunch dinner Well, never mind. If you don't eat, it's okay to be hungry at night Right? Two meals a day? Then go to a part-time tutor after school Do the math like this, I do the math. In two months. You can save enough money to go to the third brother concert Sir, let me check with Shen Huaizhou. I heard about Shen Huaizhou. Being exposed by others Chaos around And indirectly killed a girl I see, if you don't want it, you have to return it. Don't go, my third brother is not what you said He was very upright and kind Why do you say that to him? You apologize to him Crazy you The third brother is obviously the best person in the world In order to ensure the progress of the shooting Sleep only three or four hours a day He's trying to stay in shape. You eat only gym meals. Why was he scolded like this? What should I do to help the third brother? Security brother Someone in your company made false statements online I just wanted to meet him. Let him explain Can you return my third brother's innocence? Our company has regulations Idle people, etc. are prohibited from entering Go away little girl It's raining so hard outside Don't wait You can't wait. Go home now I'm not leaving, I must give my third brother justice Even if there is only a glimmer of hope I will continue to wait Hey, I'm a fan of Shen Huaizhu. Because of your post She's severely depressed. The situation is really bad Joe? I don't know what you mean. Let me go Otherwise I'll call the police. I beg you. Just explain This is really important. Are you crazy? What I said is true. You can explain it online This matter has nothing to do with Shen Huaiqiu You have to go back to Huaiqiu's innocence Explain clearly Be sure to explain This woman is so pitiful Why don't you help her? Yeah, yeah. Why don't you help her? Okay, the previous remarks about Shen Huaizhou It's just me. There is no empirical evidence. I didn't expect it. Causing such a bad influence on Mr. Shen Huaizhou I'm so sorry. Clarified Wan'er, the person who spread the rumor, personally clarified it. After so long I finally saw filial piety on my third brother's face again I feel that the wound on my body doesn't hurt at all It was all worth it. It turns out that Nian Nian has done so much for us behind the scenes What have I done? Shen Ye, you dare to bully me Even if you have big brother and second brother to support you I will never let you step into the Shen family I hurt Nian Nian again and again for Wan'er I want to apologize to Nian Nian I must obtain her forgiveness I want to personally thank her for giving me the courage to live Hey Third brother, second brother, where are you going? I didn't expect Miss Shen Nian to be able to create both He designs jewelry. How versatile! Mr. Zhang has flattered you. It's all thanks to my little uncle He gave me the confidence to do what I wanted The relationship between Miss Shen and Mr. Pei It's either a couple or an uncle and nephew No, Mr. Zhang. He's my little uncle We don't have that kind of relationship We are really not a couple But we are not related by blood Oh I understand I understand miss Is there anything wrong with Shen San Shao looking for me? Miss I know I know you were the one who wrote that song You are also the one who helped me get married I know it all now. And? Why didn't you tell me sooner? Did I tell you it worked? Have you forgotten what you once said to me? Shen Nian, let me tell you Wan'er will always be our sister Even if you come back, don't try to drive her away Even if you die I won't look at you again Shen Nian, you shouldn't go back to the Shen family Looks like you've remembered everything Then I don't need to say more. Get out Shen Nian hates us to the core It seems that he will not forgive So what do we do? Shen Nian looked at us like an enemy It doesn't look like when you first came to the Shen family How much he hates us now How much did you pay us before? It seems that all this can only be hidden by time Shen Nian, since you have already gotten out of the Shen family Why is it still haunting? I will never let you take my place. Never Miss Shen, Mr. Pei Someone punctured your two tires Did you find out who did it? I should know who it is Shen Waner, where else do you want to escape to? I didn't blow up your tires What are you looking for me for? I haven't mentioned the tire yet You throw yourself into the net Still as stupid as ever Obviously your parents don't love you The three brothers didn't believe it either Even if you know today that this tire was pierced by me So what? You don't remind I forgot. Lend me the car keys, little uncle. Shen Nian, what are you doing? I told you before. I will leave you everything you once owed Jenny I tell you If anything happens to me Dad and big brother two Brother and third brother will not let you go Shen Jing Let me see your favorite daughter with my own eyes That step by step towards the abyss Ah! Shen Waner, you also have times when you are afraid I'll tell you what. If there is a next time I wouldn't have hit the brakes Miss Shen If you don't pay me the 20 million you owe me I will go to the Shen family to find your adoptive parents Have a good chat about your gambling outside I pay back I pay back I'll give you one last night If you don't pay the 20 million debt I will ask your adoptive parents for it Never let your parents find out I will steal the money from my family for the last time Just pay the money back I'm still a good daughter of my parents Oops ma'am What's your trouble? Didn't Wan'er have to fill in the college entrance examination volunteer? Oh, what about these two days? I went on a field trip to major universities This leg is about to break Finally, I picked a few good schools Tonight? Let her pick one she likes You are so kind to Miss Wan'er. Hey What about Wan'er? Miss Wan'er went upstairs as soon as she came back. It seems that something has happened. Why don't you call her? No, no. I surprised her myself Hahaha Good night The key is indeed in my place Wan Wan Is it in there? Wan Mom, what are you looking for me for? What are you holding behind you? Nothing much. If there's nothing else, I'll go first, mom Wait a minute. What about the total jewelry? I don't see it. Bring it over bring it over I really didn't see it. What did you say? Bring the necklace. Ming stole the necklace Why are you lying? Mom, I know I was wrong. I just want to see how he looks. I went out to show him off. Obviously obsessed Please forgive me. You forgive my mother You're so confused When I read it before Did you steal something lost at home? No no Cheney stole it I steal for death I steal for death You bring it Give it I'll tell your dad what happened tonight Just explain it to him. Mom, don't let my dad know Yes it will kick me out Your dad let me go now Untie me Open it for me. Mom rapid emergency How come? How could Mom suddenly fall down the stairs? I don't know why my mother suddenly fell off I'm so scared now. Sister Hua, don't force Wan'er to ask The priority now is how is your mother now? The patient has suffered severe brain trauma The hemorrhage is compressing the nerves. Although it has been rescued now But the follow-up situation still needs to be observed slowly Will he ever wake up? Ah, I mean when will he wake up? I can't be sure about this now. According to the current situation Even if you wake up There is a high probability that there will be about 55 people. Let's think on the bright side. Maybe when mom wakes up You'll know what's going on Yeah, the doctor just said there is a high probability It shows that my mother still has hope to recover Dad, let me take care of Mom recently Big brother, second brother and third brother are too busy with work Are you invited? It's okay, mom is so nice to me. Everything should be done It's memorable. It's been so long Now your mother is in danger Tell him to come and visit your mother quickly Uncle, how long are you going to work? So boring I should have known who bothered you Be sure to accompany me to take care of it OK So am I going out to play now? You accompany me to the mall Please be nice and don't let it go out Accompany you to play Pei Shisan, how dare you perfunctory me like this I don't want to play with you anymore. Just four years The little girl has grown up I don't even call my little uncle anymore Did you say it yourself? We are only 9 years apart in age Why do you have to let me call you little uncle What do you want to call me? call I want to call you little uncle, just call you little uncle If you want to call you Pei Four Years, I will call you Pei Four Years With our age difference You can't care if I call you brother. Kaige Pei Group has been in the past five years The most powerful Motorola Far more than our Shen Group Why is Nian Nian here? I don't know. But according to the survey, this is the case It may be distant from Shen Dian When Shen Dian came to the company to find me But was kicked out by security Today's Shen Dian is like there is no wealth of the Shen family Won't come back Hello, we are looking for Shen Nian. Do you have a reservation? We are Shen Nian's brothers Something happened at home I want to take him home You are Miss Shen's brother Our boss said People from the Shen Group are not allowed to enter Especially Miss Shen's family Then you'd better put down your job Accompany me to the mall original The lofty Young Master Shen also meant to bend over My sister and mother suddenly fell down the stairs He's in the hospital now. Come back with us and have a look. Please miss After all, he is the mother who gave birth to us and raised us. Big brother is wrong Come back with us. He gave birth to me I have already repaid this kindness But you said he raised me Don't you think it's funny How can you say that? So what should I say? You tell me. What should I say? I'll tell you what. Don't try to kidnap me with your affection Born without nourishment Broken finger can be returned Unborn 100 days hard to pay I know who is kind to me My family has always only had little uncle We were sorry for you before. But big brother apologizes to you. Brother, please. Come back with me. Yes, the second brother also apologizes to you. There are things we're not doing right. But mom is very sick now Can you come back with us to see mom? Don't make her sad. Do you have a heart I already told you. I have cut ties with your Shen family In the future, your Shen family will live or die It has nothing to do with me, little uncle There we go. Mom I don't want to see you like this either. But I'm really afraid that Dad will know my secret. I finally went from an orphan to a young lady I've only had a good life for more than ten years I don't want to be ruined like this You are so kind to me You will understand me, right? As long as you lie down obediently for a lifetime Don't work hard Your daughter will take good care of you for the rest of your life. The patient woke up. The patient woke up. Doctor, how is my mother? Mrs. Shen is lucky Now awake It should recover slowly. Mom Are you feeling any sick? Pardon me? Mom wants to see you What about nian Where to read now Hate our family Refuse to come back Hmm, I knew it. Children who are not raised by their own side are raised for nothing Dad, don't be angry Maybe something delayed her sister. But the mother who gave birth in October So sick now If she really doesn't come That's not really a white-eyed wolf What's more important than your mother's life? I knew she was a white-eyed wolf I should have known You shouldn't have agreed with your mother to take it back to the Shen family in the first place Parents and brothers Since my sister has come back Then I'd better move out of my current room After all, he is your biological They've been hogging his things. What does it occupy and not occupy? You have been weak since you were a child Now the room is facing the sun. Full of sunshine Best for you? Take a look. Coughing again, right? Mom will take you back to your room to rest? Go, go. Bar mom Mom Where do I live? Basement 2 There is a warehouse on the left hand. You live first You can do it when I free up my hands That's not true. Nian Nian is right It was me who was wrong. I didn't live up to my responsibilities as a mother I'm going to give him one last chance. He can't make it anymore Don't even think about going back to the Shen family in the future Big brother, let's ask Shen Yue's little uncle out Can this be done? That man doesn't look easy to mess with. There is no other way now. Can you give him more money? We just came back to see us He shouldn't disagree, right? Three Shen Shao The person you are waiting for is here Hello Mr. Pei We have met many times. What are the three young masters looking for me for? Mr. Pei, I'm sure you know Our mother was in a terrible accident. Now I want Nian Nian to come back with us Meet our mother Why? Mr. Pei read You are young It's normal to be impulsive Are you as headstrong as an adult? Do you know If you remember this I missed my last chance to meet my mother He may regret it for the rest of his life I don't know. I only know Nian Nian has suffered a lot of grievances in your Shen family Kneeling in solitary confinement Don't let me eat A little girl raised by one hand Why are you being bullied like this in your house? This is all my fault. I've made a mistake. Now I just want you to go back and see my mother too Why do you make it difficult for me? It's not too difficult for you. I don't want to go back But I've changed my mind now I promise to go to the hospital with you I knew you couldn't give up the Shen family's business Still back Don't flatter yourself I'm here today to tell you the truth. 13 years ago, Shen Qiang personally sent me to the orphanage A month later, I brought back my adopted daughter Shen Waner Over the past 13 years, Shen Qiang has visited the cemetery many times In memory of a woman named Cheng Fang What did Ms. Song guess from this information? elder sister Mom is seriously ill now Don't be unreasonable here Otherwise you get out You little three things When did you learn to shut up? What did you say sweet You said she was a show Daughter of three Exactly. And he is also the daughter of Shen Qiang and Xiaosan Mr. Shen You really don't use this trick of tanuki for the prince Nonsense here I think you are crazy Lied to us Then look at the evidence Shen Nian was really abandoned by you You really betrayed mom Did you give birth to Shen Wan with another woman? Exactly. you You you Song Chunyuan raised a child for Xiaosan for several years Dare to torture him His own daughter was kicked out of the house Dare to torture him God And the face to ask me Why have I already promised you? I won't continue dating Chen Fang anymore He also promised me that he would let them go But what happened? I got a death notice. And a four-year-old. You tell me. Why should I let you take your child to atone for your sins? Hahaha Wonderful, wonderful Shen Waner, look back now Check out the 10 episodes you've planned Isn't that funny? Like a good clown The third young master of the Chen family The great father in your hearts Just a mistress who found a mistress The bastard who abandoned his own daughter Faith collapse How are you feeling? And you What does your past generation have to do with me? Why is your hatred I have to bear it alone What did I do wrong? But it doesn't matter This farce ends today What do you want? Come on in. This is a breakup book. Drafted by Pei's Group Legal Department From today onwards Miss Chen Dian broke off relations with the Shen family She has signed Mr. Chen, please sign too No way. Nian Nian, I know that the Shen family owes you a lot We are relatives We are a family you Impossible Mr. Shen You are a decent person. Don't want me to use money Let's do it! Hey slow down Slow down. stand up From today onwards Miss Chen Nian has nothing to do with the Shen family anymore Mr. Shen take care you Dad, what does all this have to do with Nian Nian? Why let all the mistakes be borne by the mind What did she do wrong? What did you do wrong? Her mistake was that she was Song Siming's daughter Then you hate her so much Why did you bring her back in the first place? Wan'er spent so much time on her body And money The purpose is to make Wan'er Bring more benefits to my Shen family Shen Nian is the Daoist I personally chose for Wan'er Dad? Shen Nian is also your daughter Who is useful to my Shen family? Shen is the daughter of my Shen family Since you chose Wan'er That Wan'er is the only daughter of my Shen family The only eldest lady in the Shen family Hey The chairperson is not good Pei's Group announced that it would never cooperate with us Now more than 90% of the company's cooperation plans have to be terminated What Pei's Group has been a leading enterprise in the past 5 years Why target our Shen family? Ha ha. retribution I know why. Because the person who adopted Shen Nian was the Pei Group The lawyers he brought just now are Pei's Group Pei's Group is for Shen Nian Only for our Shen family to call the shots Pei's Group is the largest enterprise in the country It is impossible that Shen Jian has nothing to do with him Even if it does And he used it to his advantage. Said bad things about us in front of the boss of Pei Group The boss of Pei Group misunderstood us But it doesn't matter. Three days later is the jewelry design competition And the most powerful people will be there. Dad, I want you to get the investment Let our Shen family soar into the sky Dad? My level of design This is Song Chunling looking for the original design draft Take it back and study it Step underfoot Let Pei's Group abandon him Dad wants me to replace you I cultivated it by myself Of course dad I think you are better than him Whose little uncle is so handsome? It's glamorous to work with. Well, make fun of me again, right? Who made fun of you? You have no idea how envious the girls in your company are Say I have a handsome man with a good figure And especially spoiled my little uncle The executives around me also told me He said he envied me for having a beautiful personality A particularly outstanding little niece Okay, let's stop bragging about business. Go ahead. What's the matter with this super invincible cutie? Haven't you always liked jewelry design? There's a jewelry contest in three days You represent the accompanying city to participate I represent the accompanying city to participate in my I will participate on behalf of Pei Shi I've never competed in a serious competition Are you not afraid that I will screw it up? Don't worry. I'll go with you. Just go play Uncle, sometimes I think You're spoiling me a little too much I can't believe it myself Oh, then you have to be nice to little uncle If the little uncle can't find a wife in the future Can you bite me or not? Just talk Why are you squinting at my face? Okay, don't worry about the game. Wrap it up on me Gone Shen Nian Pei's Group actually sent you to participate in the competition It seems that their eyes are not very good Shen Qiang sent you, this trash It seems that he is also unavailable We'll see. Today's design competition will let you see The gap between us Completely trampled you under your feet Humph Shen Nian starts today Wan'er will become the darling of the design world And you will be disliked by Pei Group Sure, we'll see won't we. Are you sure about this design competition? Don't worry, I've got someone to change his manuscript He is sure to lose this game. Welcome to the Jewelry Design Competition First of all, welcome the first contestant to the stage Now there are only the last two contestants left Who will win the trophy in the competition? Let's invite the next contestant Ms. Shen Waner Hello. The title of my design is Heart of the Ocean My design philosophy is So that's my design philosophy. Thank you very much. That's nice. It seems that tonight's champion is this Miss Shen And now for our last contestant Ms. Shen Nian please take the stage Shen Waner Shen Qiao Tonight is the beginning of your journey to the abyss Obsession you are dead Do you know what the corners of your eyes look like to me? Piece of shit you Jewelry design in addition to appearance The most important thing is quality But just now this Miss Shenwar said The jewelry they use in the Shen Group It's raw ore from mines in North America. The quality of North American ore is medium to high in the industry What's wrong with this? There is nothing wrong with the raw ore itself. But I have here a piece of data that shows The export rate of North American mines has dropped sharply in the past two years Even months of exports Not half as good as before So what does that tell you? It means there's something wrong with the mine. Our company has already considered this problem. So someone has been sent to the mine for a field inspection And I promise you. Unless there are extreme natural disasters such as mudslides and floods There is nothing wrong with the mine itself That's really nice. Then did you know that the flood is coming soon? Well said Then did you know that the flood is coming soon? The mine is most afraid of natural disasters such as floods and mudslides Once the flood breaks out Who dares to dig for raw ore? Yes, there will be insufficient supply of rough stones by then. Jewelry can't be made. Then all our money will be wasted Shen Nian Don't be here. Shaken people It's so hot now How could there be a flood? Or do you have the ability to predict the future? I really know Dad, look at this news North American mine affected by massive flash floods Mine collapse Heavy casualties The partners involved are facing bankruptcy What fake news? Let me see Dad, it's not fake news Please take a look at this information again. I found out that there has been a flood in North America. It's too late to cancel the cooperation now. Sister, no adultery or business Again This partner's money has gone into our pockets Even if the flood does break out It's not us who lost Dad, are you right? Hahaha, it's still my baby girl who's smart. As soon as you learn, it will be for you It's not your turn to interfere in our Shen family's business roll Shen Nian, don't be alarmist here Okay, let's look at the evidence Dad, I heard the weather has been bad recently. If you let investors know The supply chain of North American mines could be disrupted at any time Will it affect our interrogation? Shopping malls are like battlefields Since they have chosen to invest Something happened to us. They should bear it themselves Shen Yan Where did you get this video? To think people don't know Unless you don't Dear investors Seeing such a Shen's group Are you still interested in collaborating? Shen Group I actually knew long ago that there was a problem with North American minerals But still cheating on investment here Just sinister Black-hearted entrepreneurs like you There is absolutely no way we can cooperate with you. You are too dark roll Roll away How could this be? Chairperson Shen It seems that the daughter you chose is not very good either. Ah! Ah, it seems that our whole family underestimated you He is brave and resourceful Gifted for leadership Limitless in a few years You mother Don't worry, I'll stop him. You, you and my mom are separated now Mom knows it's wrong Now. Go home with your brother Pei's Group is not a long-term solution after all Mom also runs several jewelry design companies It's all up to you Shen Huaijin I think you just remembered me because you were left alone. What do you have left after you and Song Chunlin left the Shen family? Remember that these are temporary After a while I will definitely go public with these jewelry companies But I just need the May Group to help me get through this difficult time Why should I help your company go bankrupt? You two don't have to yell at me anymore Isn't that better for me? So be it. I'll let Pei's Group help you get through this difficult time You brought down Pei's Group How about giving it to me? You want Shen's Group Yes, can't you? Shen Huaiqi, you have worked at Shen's for nearly 10 years He was suddenly reinstated as president It must be very uncomfortable Shen Qiang, that bastard, has harmed your mother for the rest of her life You don't want him to feel regret After I got the Shen Group You can still be your CEO Song Chunling's life is not so sad What do you think? Hey In that case I'll go first Ok ok I promise you. This is what you call a father-son relationship So-called family love? miss Mom is not in good condition now The Shen family will encounter this situation As a big brother You must stand up and support this family Even if big brother begs you Shen Huaiqi I ask you to put away your disgusting look. Don't use your affection to kidnap me It seems that what I said before is not clear enough. I've never known anyone from the Shen family I miss you how can you forgive me Unless you all die That guy? Miss has been in a bad mood since she came back And he got himself drunk. I couldn't persuade her. Not even out of the room Know what happened Oh, I see. You go to rest I'll take care of her. Tingting Tell uncle why you are unhappy? Shen Jia is really ridiculous What's even more ridiculous is me In my last life, I actually tried to please them Even risk your life They don't deserve it. Let little uncle help you avenge, okay? I made them all disappear I hate them. I hate myself for never seeing them again But I don't know why. I still can't turn a blind eye to them They bully me. When you hurt me I will still feel heartache If you feel excited Just have a good cry Whether you are happy or sad Will be by your side Uncle Xiao, if you get married in the future Have someone you love deeply Will you always be by my side? I will no matter what happens I will be by your side But I really want to sleep in my arms I want you to be my little uncle Pardon me? I really want to have a little crush on you How much alcohol did you drink last night? Now my brain is confused Can't remember anything Take it easy now Uncle Joe Why do you say that with a proud look on your face? What did you do last night? Miss Shen Nian How about reporting this kind of thing? I only tell my girlfriend If you don't say it, don't say it I don't want to know about you yet. What's up? I took care of you at home all night last night If you don't believe me, ask Zhang? Really? OK Then why do you look so complacent? OK You'll know the movie when you remember it. Oh, that's right. It's your birthday in three days I'm going to prepare a birthday party for you. Miss Shen Nian What do you think? Then I want the most expensive birthday present in the world OK Uh-huh. OK Dad, the doctor said you were angry Don't worry anymore. Dad is fine, how is the company's cooperation? After Shen Nian's trouble yesterday Almost all partners have been cancelled However, Dad Pei Group sent a Invitation to Pei's daughter's birthday party As long as you don't do anything at the dinner party Let Shen Nian ruin the dinner Then he will definitely be kicked out of Pei Group Wan'er Never mind. Don't gamble anymore Dad, what do you mean? Even you think I can't compare to Shen Nian, right? I'm just afraid of hurting you I will definitely prove that your choice is correct. I will definitely not lose to Shen Nian Welcome to all the dignitaries of Jingzhou Come to the birthday party of Miss Pei Group's daughter Shen Nian He actually didn't come to Pei's daughter's birthday party It seems The position of his backer in Pei Group So that's it. Below please Pei Group President and Pei Group daughter appeared Shen Nian turned out to be an escort daughter Below please Pei Group President and Pei Group daughter appeared god It turned out to be the daughter of the Pei Group Ah yeah. You are the daughter of Pei's Group Uncle Joe, I'm going to the bathroom I'll come to you later. Go and wait for your return. I have a present for you OK I will never lose to you Go to hell. The user you dialed is temporarily unavailable Boss Pei The subordinates are not doing well Miss Shen Nian could not be found Find again If you can't find it Don't do it, it's Shen Yan This time I won Shen Waner, in order to win Kidnapped me Immediately check your whereabouts I guess you're right. Without the Shen family, there would be no today How did you uncover Shen Zi? I expected you to do something to me So I specially played this scene with you Impossible is impossible I have to thank all of you in the Shen family for all this Thank you Shen Qiang His selfishness Let me know what it means to be self-absorbed Destroy Thank you Song Chunlin His eccentricity Let me know what patience is I have to thank Shen Huaixi His indifference I learned to be ruthless. Thank you Shen Huai He's a doctor. The scenery in front of outsiders covets But he personally pushed his sister into the gate of hell And Shen Huaizhong Idol in the hearts of fans He wants to help you frame up sow discord Countless times I have been charged with trumped-up crimes He taught me what it means to help a tyrant And you, Shen Waner An illegitimate daughter Magpie's nest Serve the tiger You taught me what it means to be shameless What is cutting weeds and eradicating roots? Don't come here I have a camera installed in this necklace. Everything you do is played in real time What you Shen family have done to me It's time to end I want to die with you Stop! Stop Take this woman to the police station Let go of me let go of me Let go of the second brother second brother Third brother save me Help Me Uncle Xiao Why are you here? Are you all right? I'm sorry I don't know. Wan'er's words of repentance to you Save it for another life Little uncle Let's go home. OK These things are mindfulness records. His true words over the years For you. My little uncle told me today My birth parents came to pick me up And take me home Although I miss my little uncle very much But I'm still excited I couldn't sleep at night. I told you I'm sure I wasn't abandoned I have not forgotten all these years The scene of a family as a child I still remember my three older brothers Big brother doesn't like to talk But you're always there for me. Will seriously teach me how to read Teach me to memorize ancient poems My name is what my eldest brother taught me to write He said that being human is like writing horizontal and vertical impartial And second brother The second brother is the most gentle brother in the world Even if I dirty his clothes He won't blame He taught me to be gentle with others understanding The third brother often takes me to secretly buy delicious food And take me to an amusement park He also said that I would be his sister all my life As long as he is there He won't let anyone bully me Big brother second brother third brother Mom and Dad I don't want a pretty dress. I don't want good food. I won't make you angry anymore Can we go back to our childhood? Mom and Dad I don't know if you're going to see this. This is the third birthday I'm about to spend with you But this time I'm going to spend it alone again Mom and Dad, are you listening? I really miss being a kid At that time, I often sat on my father's shoulders Can see very far It feels like as long as my dad is there I don't have to be afraid of anything Because dad once said I am his world My memory of my father He always gave me the best things in the world He is the president of a company When working in the company, it is vigorous and resolute Keep strangers away But it will happen when I am sick Take good care of me And mom When I was angry Mom always makes a bowl of fragrant braised pork For me to eat but then I made it many times It doesn't taste the same as in memory Mom, I will never make you angry again. Do things you don't like I really want to taste the taste of childhood again Since I can remember I remember living in a world full of love Full of warmth In a happy family Dad doesn't want me because I'm disobedient I will change it if I change it. As long as you tell me But why do I feel like I've been so good? Very sensible You still don't like me Mom and Dad, what else am I not doing well enough? I remember the parents who loved me and loved me. Where is it? I really want to go back to my childhood Mom and Dad Today is your birthday. Let's live as a family My Girl My Girl Dad? Dad! Dad! Little uncle, what about the birthday present you promised to give me? You promised to give it to me The most expensive birthday gift in the world? You disappeared at the birthday party without telling me. In danger. This is your punishment. Don't be angry. I promise you. I won't do it again next time, okay? Oh, I really want to talk about it. Will you just tell me where my birthday present is? Really want to know So do you remember What did you do to me the day you got drunk? Can't remember You do it to me again I'll tell you. Really? When did I lie to you? Can you tell me where it is now? This ring is called a crown Same as you. Is priceless