- [Host] Thank you to A caterpillar and a kangaroo, it's hard to imagine two or a stingray and a seagull or a penguin and an ancient armored dinosaur. These animals last common of millions of years ago. But there is one thing that all of these and many other animals share they're darker on top and (upbeat music) All over the world, we find whether they're predators on land or in the ocean or in the sky. So why did this trait in species that have almost (upbeat music) Hey, smart people, Joe biologists were scratching their heads. There was just no good in a coral reef and a desert and a Savannah and nearly every other type of habitat on our planet all Then around the turn of the 20th century an answer came from an unexpected place. An American painter named that he had cracked the code. According to him, this nearly universal As a painter, Thayer saw the than most people, he knew that to paint a three-dimensional scene on a two-dimensional canvas, To give a flat picture, areas cast in shadow were always darker than areas under direct light. But Thayer realized that in of nature, many animals out the shadows that their Take this wolf, the top of and the colored fades to tan So when a wolf is in the sun, while it's light colored making its whole coat look Thayer called this obliterate by obliterating shadows, animals made themselves look flatter. And he argued that this let them blend into their backgrounds so seamlessly that they essentially disappeared. Now, the idea of animals camouflaging their shadows wasn't entirely new. Other biologists in the 19th century, had noticed this pattern but Thayer went much further, extended his idea to all kinds of animals. Thayer used his art skills He once painted wooden and lighter undersides against the colors of Supposedly, there are one on the left that does and one on the right that does. I promise there's two Thayer eventually got and argued that almost of any type was for camouflage like when he insisted so that they would blend into Cute idea, but that's His artist's side got the but he was onto something I set up this demo to show in real life. So the shape on the left it's a white cylinder. It's casting a shadow underneath it. The shape on the right, it's It looks much flatter. It's just black on a black it's counter shaded. (swoosh music) These days this effect obliterate shading is And the idea that it works as camouflage has been In some ways, the explanation seems too for instance, some animals like these caterpillars so their bellies are darker It's easy to spot them but when they're in their usual position the shadows disappear, which that counter shading has something to do with hiding in the shadows, and that's not the only evidence. In brightly lit habitats like grasslands and deserts where shadows counter shading patterns balancing out those strong shadows. Paleontologists have even in dinosaur fossils showing that some dinosaurs were counter shaded. But in science, just because an answer seems that it's right. Scientists have only testing Thayer's century old idea in controlled experiments to see if it's really as universal as he claimed. And while some studies have does protect animals from being spotted it's still not exactly clear how it works. Even if real animals like Thayer's painted could still make them harder visual systems work by the difference between So got shadows, and you but smooth your contrast and you may be harder to pick out even if you don't completely disappear. Counter shading might also work So instead of looking a counter shaded like some flat boring leaf. This is another case where that not all animals Counter shading might make an to our very awesome human vision. But to a predator that and details that we can, it and good enough is all We still don't know which or if maybe counter shading for different animals counter shading might not have The thing is, if you're a that you'd want to hide your and prey mostly see each But many swimming animals of just concealing They can be spotted from above, below, or just about anywhere. Plus, hiding shadows because underwater sunlight gets scattered by the water and the So light comes from above, So it could be that in swimming species for a To help these animals from different angles. Say that you're a predator so you're seeing it against the fish's light belly will conceal it against that bright background, you'll see it against darker deep water. Now the fish's darker top of the strong light shining from above so it's concealed against Essentially, no matter the fish's body reflects about the same amount of making it nearly invisible, 'cause once you get a few the only light is coming from above. And no matter how white a fish's belly is, it will cast a shadow That's why some sea on their undersides that produce light. This is called counter illumination and a bunch of fish, squid, crustaceans and even sharks have adopted hide their silhouettes when The bottom line is that how counter shading In some cases, it may be Consider the penguin, they're as animals come. It might help them blend in but penguins also seem to use their black and white coats to At least one study found that to the sun when they need to of their coat absorbs more sunlight. What we do know is that both predators and prey are always crafting and gain an advantage over the other and evolutionist fashioned all sorts of color patterns to that many species use to Whether counter shading into the background, or make three dimensions look like two, it's worked well enough that nature has produced this all over earth for at least And that is something that any artist or scientist should be impressed by. Stay curious and scientifically speaking that is why corgis have Oh, hey, I didn't see you there. Thanks for sticking on I want to say a huge thank you to everyone who supports the show on Patreon for helping We literally could not do it without you and it's a great way to before anybody else. So you can get right in and help other people find these videos and this great algorithmic Another way to do that is to If you're not already I know everybody tells you to do that but I'm gonna do it too. All right, check out the We'll see you in the next video. And thank you to Brilliant Brilliant is an online learning platform for STEM with hands-on Brilliant is for curious learners both young and old, Brilliant courses teach you how to think via interactive lessons, problem solving activities and exercises. And they also teach you with interactive lessons in STEM. For example, brilliant.org offers a course called computational biology. Computational biology merges of the computer scientist with of the physicist to address Since 2000, an ocean of that allows researchers and Here students develop an intuition for selecting foundational problems in computational biology, like Sequence alignment, building at evolutionary relationships. The course also addresses of molecular biology like RNA folding. To learn more about brilliant, This pattern, whether whether they live in Earthworms in the land. Okay