When God of War was released in March 2005 the game almost immediately. Only a week after on the speedrun focused website SpeedDemosArchive. in creating a full segmented speedrun of the to anyone wanting to speedrun it. The game for getting through the game easier, were the game's inception in 2005 a small handful this brutal game. Runs would be performed and shortcuts to beat the game faster than War speedrunning, one run stood out, that who had such a profound impact on the way come. Welcome to episode 3 of this series. who broke god of war in half, but first a Man how did i end up in this rotten sewer, this place stinks. Hey Slim, why don't you just.. change your location? Easy for you to say, i'm stuck down here. Well, it's easy. Just use NordVPN! With NordVPN you can change your location to anywhere you want. This is useful if specific songs, movies or other things only show in certain countries. This really helpful for my own research, but also for personal enjoyment since sometimes, underground songs don't always like showing up on YouTube for me. If you're interested in the service you can use the link that's on screen Start using NordVPN today by If you're unhappy with your purchase, there's a Again, that's NordVPN.com/tharixer To fill the gaps if you haven't played the allow me to briefly show you the game's level goal is to acquire Pandora's box, an artifact which he plans to use against Ares, the god has a long journey ahead of him. You start big Hydra, you then make your way through of the Oracle. You then traverse the Athen's where you find Cronos the titan, who has Pandora's the game takes place inside of the temple, trap filled gauntlets. Challenge of Atlas, Once cleared you proceed to the Cliffs of to the architect's tomb and acquire Pandora's all the way from Athens, to the temple impaling then fight your way through Hades, and climb climb your way out of hell. You arrive at face off against Ares. Upon his defeat, you that's the game. Now.. I made that all sound fairly quick, to its difficulty and large areas you have to record their speedrun of God of War would using the in-game timer, and playing on God released his run on October 1st 2005, only was a decent showing for the time, although with no notable skips or shortcuts. Regardless, Another runner by the name of ballofsnow would improve on Prism's time with a 2:16:23. and completed his runs in 20 segments as opposed cleaning up most of the sloppiness of Prism's Challenge of Hades that saved around 6 minutes. was generally viewed in high regard. The run where someone was so impressed by the run, rating. The reviewer's name was Godmodegod on challenge runs and no upgrade runs. He tactics and how the various fights in the 2007, Godmodegod would create a speedrun focused The Ultimate God of War Union, where players for God of War 1 and 2. Godmodegod was sort Going under the name "the-creeper" on establishing proper rulesets, listing times, The forum was rather small, and didn't contain with a shared interest for a classic PS2 franchise. and he went by.. Satvara. The entry post from this new user went as this board. I've done some speed running or three months ago and after I had unlocked myself to a time attack. I played under New/Game 1:21:41. It wasn't perfect or anything and it. Additionally, some of the videos linked I didn't use. Nevertheless I'm still satisfied be with a time like that? This Satvara person, 2:16. Now, of course there was no video to a bit skeptical. After all, Satvara was new welcomed Satvara to the forum, and upon seeing "Not bad." Not really knowing what to anybody can technically claim whatever they too familiar with various YouTube comments hard to tell whether Satvara was legit or stir. Satvara also said in his initial post that he didn't know about. Godmodegod and another estimates of how low the time could go, had Now keep in mind, these two users didn't place for a 1:21, let alone even lower than tensions would begin to rise in the forum. to these posts in.. dramatic fashion. *clears I think it's time I laid my cards out on the I can't help but laugh at the fact that you time that you know nothing about. A 1:21 is idea how impossible it is. You could try and least with what you know. Should have just done what I inteded in my ballofsnow did God Mode. It doesn't matter even on Hero. I try not to immediately shoot they made such claims. I even let you by without me. You got lucky. Is it? You really should have because your were an idiot. I was seriously contemplating somewhere else. But I think I'll be sticking head. You won't be needing it anymore. Don't forget, however, that I'm here to give trying to build here. If you so will it, we'll Enough talk. the night, and by now, other users of the Satvara's claim was fraudulent. What was this was all just one big bluff? After a few back to the forum, delivering the goods. The part by part. This is when everyone started only was his claim of 1:21 legit, the glitches discovered independently, no prior reference was ever used. Satvara, in 2007 had virtually The run was absolutely astounding. Satvara all by himself, and several forum users went quickly. But what was it that Satvara was time in a league of his own? Let's take where he managed to save so much time. speedrunning, insisted on playing on God Mode, to play through the game. But difficulty practically he found one of, if not the most impactful magic glitch. Not too long after you arrive fight against a Medusa. Upon defeating it, you can cast to stone enemies. The game wants enemies, but for the purpose of the tutorial, to try out the spell as much as you'd like. makes his way to a spot where he can clip and tricky jumps, Satvara escapes the tutorial in the tutorial fight, and thus, you now have of the game. It didn't matter much whether difficult fights became trivial, magic took to gather phoenix feathers to increase your ballofsnow had to do all over the game. This glitches in the history of the game, saving Satvara had discovered two big movement techniques and further places. A standard high jump was had found an improved version, using Poseidon's multiple spots. One of the places where this of Madness. Normally, you need to acquire it across. Satvara however, only got 1 necklace He then used a Poseidon's Rage high jump and used another Poseidon's rage high jump second necklace and saving over 8 minutes The other movement technique Satvara had discovered further distance by swinging the blades of used this technique to reach the bridge in not look like much, until you realize that Athens, and it also skips the collection of The same long jump technique was used in Challenge you have to fight a bunch of enemies on a a certain height of the rope that descended Hades early. This saved almost two minutes. care of with infinite magic, Poseidon's rage In order to proceed further into Challenge progression, and Satvara had found a big shortcut jump was sufficient in reaching the ledge another minute and a half over the games intended Right after obtaining the infinite magic. with enemies until you reach a statue you the walls entirely with some crafty double a quick 20 second save. you have to fight a bunch of centaurs to open where you are required to defeat all of the This is effectively what Prism did in his break that Ballofsnow had used, was a way to some dodgy collision, saving over 6 minutes better way all on his own that skipped both A standard high jump was enough to ledge grab the maze was located, easy money for an additional To top it all off, Satvara managed to skip of getting around the fight triggers. The of Madness was skipped with a Poseidon's a fight inside of a cave was bypassed with against the harpies in the architect's tomb and avoiding the fight trigger. This skip in 2006, but Satvara had also found it by cyclops and minotaurs in the ruined temple over the fight trigger. All of these aforementioned each, so Satvara gained hefty time throughout As Satvara rolled his way through Mount Olympus, at the final save point was truthful to his 2007. If there were any doubts as to whether isolation, there are a very few select instances strategies. Strategies Satvara could have The two notable points where Satvara's run the Hydra, and using Rage of the Gods against Army of Hades was the better choice. Despite expectations. People on the Ultimate God of was able to dismantle the game in so many still did not approve of Satvara's behavior credit where credit is due, his run was a the run to The Ultimate God of War Union rather Satvara notably did not submit his run to out of bounds glitches back in 2007, and while game area in his 1:21, Satvara envisioned was and wasn't out of bounds. Satvara sensed did not know God of War to the extent he did, regeneration magic glitch was also seen as in the discussion on the forums if a submission was hindering the game from its potential. were both valid in beating the game as quickly view speedrunning today, with glitches being whole. The Ultimate God of War Union seemed is why he chose to reveal his run over there. the result of 1:21, and eventually shifted breaking following the completion of his run. and 2008, Satvara went on what I can only After his groundbreaking performance, Satvara still felt that the game had more breakthroughs. I apologize for the upcoming 2008 video quality, but it wouldn't be an if you ask me. One of his first major discoveries Desert of Lost Souls. Athena demands that the desert in order to proceed through a small to get into the temple early, by using the some collision on a wall. Completely skipping minutes. extended with a crazy looking out of bounds gained here due to skipping knocking over followed straight afterwards. must speak with a gatekeeper that can open big cyclops enemies, and proceed into the to skip both of these requirements, by using a chest and a wall. He then double jumped saving nearly 3 minutes. This one seems to YouTube algorithm. Not bad for an old skip One of Satvara's biggest contributions to break discovered in the very first level, you climb the ship's mast, you're intended along a rope. On this other ship is where hydra and get a key for your troubles. You're end of the level, but Satvara had found a Watch and observe. A massive thin ledge below. If you're just too far just too far right, you'll clip back in Satvara then jumps along the out of bounds this skip does save over 4 minutes, it wasn't that Poseidon's Rage was a necessary component But I did mention this one for a reason, more After breaking Poseidon's Trident free from a section underwater. An out of bounds through in 2006, but the potential wasn't fully in february 2008. In a 3 minute long youtube underwater section from out of bounds by figuring This discovery must have been both difficult to keep Kratos out of bounds the whole time, camera. All in all a bit over a minute and In the temple of the oracle, Kratos must save desperately clinging onto for dear life. In hanging, by clipping through the door to the aerial hermes rush move in a very specific the act of saving the oracle and the 2 minute but extremely difficult to pull off. in his run to open a door in Challenge of amount of time. It was figured out that the high jump, which proved useful in many spots. to perform an ascension. He then swings the in combination for more height. He's able door that requires the two shields, saving As if that wasn't enough. Satvara found later, that skipped to the very final door spike corridor in Pandora's Temple, you side of one of the crushers. This requires that Kratos is able to grab the ledge of the out of bounds, you have to navigate Kratos in danger of falling down or accidentally by another Poseidon's Rage high jump right of Atlas. This way you can go through Challenge Son's Head without doing anything else in When Kratos finally reaches Pandora's box, that he must bring the box back to Athens. too, he simply went out of bounds using the room before the box, seam-walked on the outside the shaft you're supposed to take the box at the bottom of the shaft, the game gives the cutscene. It seems that nothing was impossible I feel like I would be doing Satvara dirty, that skipped collecting all magics and the skips used for this playthrough, I've already Poseidon's Rage, And a similar but improved Medusa's Gaze. A puzzle later in Athen's with Medusa's Gaze, so Satvara had to find It's hard to tell from the video quality, jumping over a pile of rubble outside of the Apollo's Offensive, for more length to clear afterwards with the classic long jump we saw with an obscure trick known as "gliding." and blocking to gain some rather strange momentum that gives you the blade. Finally, Army of the Pandora's Guardian room, followed by for the magic. The end of the video shows collected. A huge flex, yet seemingly another One final discovery I'll talk about for now 2008. The difficulty on this skip is above sacrifice room. A room that saw some controversy a caged soldier to the room then burn and room didn't really seem feasible, but as of Satvara. He uses the blade of artemis and to stand on a tiny seam outside of the level. to land further along the level, and then get under the sacrifice door, where Satvara running out of magic. jumping without Poseidon's Rage was discovered, Satvara's old Hydra skip from years prior Rage completely out of the route, this would sequence breaks, most notably sacrifice skip. runs until 2020 - a whole 12 years after Satvara So many skips, in so little time. It was amazing went over Satvara's bigger discoveries in the tip of the iceberg. If I truly went over on youtube saw Satvara's videos as a spectacle. try their hand at breaking God of War, and and 2009, not just from Satvara. Entering become few and far between. In march 2009, cancel the Hydra's energy regeneration with players could not seem to get the hang of of the video suddenly announced that this comments, Satvara said that he was done, and anymore. Akheon, Tyrrhjy and GodmodeGOD, were all sad the game, and his videos were nothing short golden age of God of War sequence breaking, and the game would have to wait for the second Throughout the PS3s lifespan, the God of War the console. Updating the graphics to HD, that not everybody got to play. One would amongst the speedrun community, especially you to beat the game in under 5 hours. There 2012 that were in the works from two new runners, point in the game. Someone just needed to in the scene. In august 2012, the God of War God of War 1, 2, 3, Chains of Olympus and and a certain someone got reeled back into the God of War speedrunning scene had become, the activity. Despite claiming that he didn't 1 still had so much left to uncover. When Satvara returned to God of War. Oh yea.. Satvara was back baby. Back with glitches. After already breaking the Aegean 3 skip, he had found two more to further shorten Hydra 2. In a casual setting, defeating all the Hydra to pop through the wooden planks. new skip to bypass the fight entirely. If harpie swoops down towards you, you can block on the other side of the fence on the floor Kratos onto the other side. This is still your only form of aid being a very strict as it's swooping towards you. This also segues After some balancing beams and watching a cover from an incoming volley of arrows. Satvara pushing the box, it was possible to reach Comparing a skip like this to some of Satvara's this skip was perhaps a bit overlooked and however, is only reachable on the PS3 version made Kratos' jump a tiny bit higher, allowing or so. This was cool and all, but Satvara Satvara's next discovery was quite huge, The strategy takes place in the Pandora's you have to rinse and repeat a process of to remove its armor bit by bit. Satvara had how he did it: He first goes up to the crank log will always miss, but what he uncovered precise time in the cutscene, you *can* in stunlocks. He does this a total of 3 times ahead to the second phase in an instant. Pandora's but this is merely a visual bug. Even 10 years the fight. A small skip that saved around 15 seconds Temple Lobby was discovered by Satvara as the aforementioned Sacrifice Skip in terms into full-game runs until 8 years later. The upper part of the door with a precise poseidon's the lobby from above with whatever movement blade of artemis is not yet obtained by this Apollo's Offensive for further distance. Long Jump. Not an easy skip by any means - yet its time. Satvara's ability to find new sequence breaks them out one by one, but you have to remember being, just like the rest of us, and an unfortunate at the very end of 2012. Satvara's mother Satvara slowly but surely lost interest in what was actually important, helping his mother so unexpectedly, but it's understandable that Before dissapearing from the scene however, A finding that would fundamentally change This is the Port of Athens Swimming Glitch. In God of War, Kratos can swim on water surfaces from the beginning of the game, but diving Poseidon's Trident roughly halfway through with skipping large sections of the game using some cases, if you can manage to get Kratos collision, entering freediving mode is possible to be possible in Challenge of Atlas, Challenge useful or faster by any means. However, on revolutionize the speedrunning route by finding saved.. well, a f*** ton, let's just put first time, there's a short cutscene followed you're fast enough, you can grab the ledge the ship's cabin as you become checkpointed. game lets Kratos freefall during the loading while the game is loading, he will fall down floor instead of ending up back inside the as if he was on solid ground, and makes his he can get pushed downwards to activate the at the ship, Kratos is able to elegantly swim pleases. From here on out, you can just touch the game to the next part. Port of Athens, Temple of the Oracle were all skipped by swimming canceled under certain conditions, most commonly in the game, which the sewers before the Desert of Athens Swimming Glitch is still one of is a testament to Satvara's ability to think 2013 was the last time we saw any new discoveries breaking the game, and decided to move on Satvara's greatest body of work when it plenty of notable discoveries in Prince of of Shadow, Another Metroid 2 Remake and Fast I spoke with Satvara while researching for about something. His 1:21 run from August "an experiment." He wanted to see what and he wanted to see what time he was able own discoveries. It just so happens that the other player. In his own words "When I was think I was breaking new ground, even with there could have already been something way would look in 2008. That was a distinct possibility of War is a popular game, selling millions community out there? And yea.. despite a logical train of thought, for God of War was The Ultimate God of War explosive, but he felt it was necessary to all, the forum users had no idea what was tension between himself and Godmodegod after admires Godmodegod's dedication as a leader against the man, but does not speak to him of the game, and they are both fairly inactive. so there's that. Satvara did suggest that of the story, and to see if he felt the same with some pretty lengthy messages detailing From what I gathered, Godmodegod does not of War 1, but on a more personal level he "Doubt Satvara ever really cared." But says that Satvara shouldn't be let off the into the forum was rude, and he has no respect as of now. If you wish to learn more about the history has a 2 part speedrun history series on YouTube so please go show the videos some love. Multiple to his amazing coverage. AKheon is also a to shed a bit of light on as well. He has even funny, but just like Satvara, his greatest written a Glitch FAQ for the game, that's exist, the runner-up for most influential this guy. AKheon and Satvara were the glitching they collaborated and bounced ideas between techniques, usually through the YouTube comment me learn the speedrun for God of War 1 in research for this video, thank you for that. All this coverage would also not have been an honor to be able to cover such a rich story what skips he is the most proud of, he had that I am more proud of over others, as each process. I learned to take whatever the game Sequence breaking doesn't actually "break" was always there. Looking back, as an individual Still, what's most important is that I learned breaking through God of War, as well as from AKheon, who is one of the most skilled glitchers In the end, all I can do is contribute what to do even better." Satvara set a standard for what was possible but he believes better is always possible. right mindset to elevate the game to the next work in God of War 1 is definitely the most all the way up until our modern year of 2022. world record by Traj. One can find that 25 and weaponized by Satvara. You can safely by a single individual, who found all of the crazy enough, but had Satvara kept playing, A game that took almost 3 hours to complete of that, and who knows how much further it potential. Satvara really exploited this game games to this level of advancement was not to fundamentally change the way speedrunners I hope this video will spread awareness to playing outside of the parameters of the game, War. It just so happens that in the process, Thanks for watching if you like the content, me on patreon. Take care and have a good one.