The man known to history as Albert Einstein city of Ulm in the south of what was then Ulm was a major urban centre of the Kingdom the German state in the late nineteenth century. His father was Hermann Einstein, an Ashkenazi Hermann had been academically gifted and showed when studying in Stuttgart, the capital of However, the Einstein family were not wealthy went to work in the feather-bed shop run by in the 1870s. Albert's mother was Pauline Koch, a member extensive connections as purveyors and merchants She married Hermann Einstein in 1876 and Albert A daughter, Maja or Maria Einstein, was born Albert's youth was dictated to a considerable When he was still an infant Hermann Einstein, Jakob, decided to move the family to Munich, some 170 kilometres to the east of Ulm. This occurred in 1880 as Jakob and Hermann electrical engineering company in Munich just to begin sweeping the western world. There Albert was enrolled in a Catholic elementary in Munich in 1887. Albert remained there until 1894, but at that when Hermann and Jakob failed to secure a Instead they headed for northern Italy, settling Albert briefly remained in Munich to continue disillusioned with the strict rote learning his parents and the school authorities to Albert continued his education in Italy from He was already showing distinct signs of a although his father desired for him to take and so follow him into the family business. In Munich in the summer of 1891 he had taught of the ancient Greek mathematician, Euclid. A family tutor by the name of Max Talmud, and ophthalmology, was employed by the Einsteins and scientific principles, but he soon found than he himself was, when it came to subjects Nor was he a prodigy who was solely interested As he entered his teenage years he was also philosophical writers of the eighteenth and philosopher, Immanuel Kant. Kant's Critique of Pure Reason, first published discussions of metaphysics, the study of the tracts ever written, yet Albert seemed to which bewildered his tutor. Young Einstein's abilities did not go unnoticed Thus, shortly after he arrived in Pavia and to take the entrance exams at the Swiss Federal an advanced school of science, mathematics Although he scored high on the technical exams, owing to his youth. The following year he passed the Swiss Matura, who had not gone through the formal schooling complete the secondary education curriculum Earlier that year he had also renounced his for the required military service expected Thus it was that as a stateless individual in Zurich in the autumn of 1896 aged seventeen. There he would study physics and mathematics, a prodigious ability in since he was a child. He would remain there for four years, eventually Einstein's years in Zurich were those in in a fully formed state. He was becoming an eclectic scientist, one but whose area of expertise covered a wide accurate way to measure the dimensions of to quantum mechanics, the broad science of at the atomic and subatomic level. Additionally, he was concerned to measure At the time he was beginning to conduct complex Zurich, the prevailing view amongst European travelled exclusively in wave-patterns. As would become clear in the years that followed a further layer of complexity existed within These and other aspects of advanced physics in his mid-twenties. They formed the core of his doctoral thesis the early 1900s and which he completed in of Molecular Dimensions'. His research in the early 1900s was evidently and physicist who had begun attending the time that Einstein had first been granted the class in 1899. Maric was one of only two female students She and Einstein were soon involved in a relationship she contributed to his research, though the In any event her own research was interrupted Maric and Einstein were not yet married by out of wedlock was still considered a social It appears that Mileva returned to her native in their correspondence after her birth. What happened to her thereafter is unclear. Some sources believe she died from scarlet put up for adoption in Serbia. It seems more likely that she died as Maric They would go on to have two further children, 1904, and another son, Eduard, in 1910. did not immediately find it easy to find a in Zurich in 1900. He spent the next year and a half trying in research position in a Central European university, In the meantime, he acquired Swiss citizenship half a decade of theoretically being without With Swiss citizenship in hand a family friend Max Grossman, enlisted the aid of his father Office in the capital Bern. Here Einstein worked as a patent assistant What this effectively meant was that Albert inventions and devices which were brought wanted to have their intellectual ownership for the device was given to them and they Einstein worked there for the next several Beyond serving to support his young family, involving electrical conduction and mechanics on Einstein's own research during his formative The manner in which Einstein burst forth from world's scientific community to become one mid-1900s is one of the strangest stories While he was completing his doctoral studies the first half of the 1900s Einstein was working pages of Annalen der Physik, one of the world's physics, which had been published in Germany This eventually resulted in four separate the journal in 1905. Individually they made major contributions Collectively they have been deemed to represent of the molecular and atomic dimensions of physics. Consequently 1905 is usually referred to by western science as the annus mirabilis, or The first of Einstein's four papers of 1905 the Production and Transformation of Light' This explained what is known as the photoelectric The photoelectric effect is where electrons such as light, hits off a material or substance. The electrons which are emitted during such Up until 1905 when Einstein described this amongst physicists was that light travelled explained that the photoelectric effect meant to be a finite number of energy quanta, which be absorbed or generated as entities. This not only explained much that was previously but had fundamental implications for understanding sufficient energy into play to liberate an This built on work conducted by physicists Einstein's paper added extensive new details the photoelectric effect. This had major implications for practical discovery would be directly cited when Einstein it was not until the mid-1920s that his findings Just six weeks after this first paper appeared, 'On the Motion of Small Particles Suspended Molecular Kinetic Theory of Heat', was published Prior to Einstein's paper there was no accurate but several scientists in the nineteenth century substances tended to combine together or break that they were all made from an as yet unidentified These unitary molecules are known as atoms Ancient Greek philosophers of the sixth century the nature of existence, two and a half millennia Einstein's second 1905 paper showed how by using what was termed Brownian Motion, suspended in a water solution. Einstein's paper, along with a corroborating Perrin, in 1908, demonstrated unequivocally which were the building blocks of existence. Thus, this second paper of 1905 was a major the existence of atoms and molecules and the much of twentieth-century physics. Einstein's third paper was published just 1905. This was entitled 'On the Electrodynamics of special relativity. This sought to reconcile an equation which James Clerk Maxwell, had devised in the early Maxwell's equations led to difficulties which occurred close to the speed of light. In response to this problem Einstein outlined 'special relativity' in his 1905 paper. This stated that the speed of light is the of the light source or the observer of the This opposed the idea postulated over two that the speed of light is not fixed. Moreover, Einstein's special theory of relativity involved concerning light, there is no true is not. Einstein had come to this realisation while summer of 1905 and looking at the clock-tower He realised that if his car suddenly started on the clock-tower would suddenly appear as the streetcar would continue to move around Einstein and the clock in the streetcar were Therefore the speed of movement was relative. If the streetcar had suddenly accelerated the clock-tower had stopped, only that it which the streetcar was now travelling at. This was the special theory of relativity Einstein's fourth and final paper of his of November and was entitled 'Does the Inertia Few have heard of that title today, but a which Einstein pioneered in the paper: E=mc2. In brief what this means is that the energy to its mass, or m, multiplied by the speed This equivalency equation showed that a massive which is distinct from the kinetic energy This would come to be known as the Mass-Energy energy' of a particle such as the nucleus in an enormous amount of light and thermal disturbed sufficiently. As we will see, the practical application in later decades and Einstein later grew to Einstein's four papers published during in the confined world of academic theoretical His research shaped the application of science For instance, when you walk up to an automatic is because the sensors used in the doorway they emit are obstructed, in this case by The sensor then tells the door to open. Einstein first explained how photons work. Solar-powered calculators and streetlights amongst other innovations, also emerged from The 'special theory of relativity' helped Systems, or GPS, over time. Thus, when you switch on Google Maps it is which Einstein published in his annus mirabilis And when a nuclear power plant creates massive in the nucleus of an atom they are doing so energy and mass equivalence as contained in Einstein's ground-breaking research findings of the European scientific community, though the circulation of hard copies of academic be disseminated it took a few years for the Europe. As they did, they transformed his career. By 1908 he gained a teaching post at the University at the Patent Office. The following year he was appointed to a new created at the University of Zurich. He remained there for the next two years. During this time, he continued to refine some while also moving on to begin developing the of his work on special relativity. The theory of general relativity holds that two masses results from the warping of space This research made major initial contributions objects within the universe. In 1911 Einstein left Switzerland, after over which had been offered to him at the Charles university in what is now Czechia, but which Empire. In tandem he was offered Austrian citizenship. Although he spent just over a year there he such as the mathematics of radiation, quantum Before long a new offer pulled him back to This was an invitation to teach at his old He was there by the summer of 1912 and would were increasingly familiar with the growing problems on gravitation and molecular heat. Much of this latter work was undertaken in colleague who had attended the Polytechnic family had aided him in acquiring his earlier taking up his position in Zurich, Einstein Walther Nernst, two of the foremost scientists Both worked in Berlin and had come to Zurich of his birth to take up a position at the The post came with automatic membership of as his appointment as director of the Kaiser This would allow Einstein to concentrate on around him. It was an offer he couldn't refuse and was close to his cousin, Elsa, who lived in Germany with frequently since the spring of 1912. Thus, early in 1914 Albert made the move to His first wife, Mileva, agreed to move at unhappy in Berlin, and sensed Albert was growing to Zurich with their children. They remained separated until 1919 when they Elsa. By then both she and Albert were in their did not result in any further children, though daughters from her previous marriage. Einstein's arrival in Berlin was immediately War. For years tensions had been building between as colonial rivalry in Africa, the vacuum Balkans and the naval race between Britain These all coalesced in the summer of 1914 soon became a worldwide conflict. When it erupted, and Germany's invasion quickly at north-eastern France drew widespread 'Manifesto of the Ninety-Three' and addressed circulated in Germany. The move was led by figures like Adolf van in Chemistry, and Paul Ehrlich, the 1908 recipient work in chemotherapy, and was effectively sounding their support for Germany's war Einstein, who was a life-long pacifist, refused German academics drew up the 'Manifesto This expressed the idea that Europe's sense the war to a swift end. Unfortunately, their hopes were not met and of interminable conflict, followed by years of the continent. Despite the ongoing war, Einstein was able in Berlin from 1915 onwards as the initial However, it was not until 1917 that the Kaiser in Berlin with Einstein as its first director. Funding and administrative delays wrought He would serve as head of the Institute for Meanwhile, in 1916 he was admitted as a member been established in 1845 and is the world's Foreign honours would also follow in the years Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1920 and admittance arguably the world's most prestigious scientific it was founded in London. break new ground in his research in the mid-1910s. For instance, in 1916 he hypothesised the effectively ripples in the curvature of space These could not be detected using the instrumentation but in 2016, a century after Einstein predicted by American scientists. He was also beginning to theorise the existence in space where gravity is so strong that neither from them and which distort space and time. As with so much else, his work on black holes of his successors to produce detailed accounts in the twentieth century. He could, however, be mistaken too. In 1917 he began working on what he termed which supposed the existence of a static universe. Many years later when the American astronomer in the universe, Einstein realised his earlier was incorrect and referred to it as his, quote, His other great research project of the war Einstein had been working on the concept of relativity' was the subject of one of his Yet it was not until the mid-1910s that he of general relativity. The general theory of relativity outlined This moved far beyond Newtonian ideas concerning the full complexity of geometric gravity as planets. There is an ongoing debate as to who actually first, as his contemporary, the German mathematician, identical conclusions as Einstein did in the As with Charles Darwin and Alfred Russell of natural selection at the same time in the Hilbert were in communication with each other Gottingen where Hilbert was working in 1915 What seems relatively clear is that Einstein that they both arrived at the same conclusions of each other in the winter of 1915. In late 1918 Europe and the wider world began War, although in some countries such as Russia, war saw the commencement of bitter civil wars had seen during the war itself. Yet with the resumption of some form of normal research began to be disseminated widely again. Thus, Einstein and Hilbert's work on the audience within the community of Europe and As it did there was an increasing appreciation Then, in the summer of 1919, the theory was Eddington, an English astronomer and mathematician, This time the popular newspapers picked up had overthrown the model of the universe developed Given all of this, it is perhaps unsurprising decided to award Einstein the Nobel Prize They specifically cited his work in discovering 1905 in the award designation, but it could range of research findings over the previous Receipt of the Nobel Prize in 1921 and the years of the 1920s after years of war and he had just recently married, decide to travel In early April 1921 they sailed into New York Mayor, John Francis Hylan, and a delegation city's Jewish community. Weeks of lectures and receptions followed, and Princeton University in New Jersey. Later that month Einstein met President Warren Afterwards they left for a Pacific voyage Singapore and India before reaching the Middle There Einstein visited Palestine, which had the end of the First World War and where the establish a new state for the world's Jews the globe. Afterwards he returned to Germany, but the of significant trips to different parts of For instance, in 1925 he visited South America, countries which were booming economically and where Einstein was revered within the In the mid-1920s Einstein became involved on at the time. This was between himself and Niels Bohr, a in Physics in 1922, twelve months after Einstein A dispute had been building between Einstein differing interpretations of quantum theory. Much of this centred on Bohr's refusal to theorised the existence of in 1905, were real. He did not accept that they did exist until over other elements of their respective views Debates were held in London and elsewhere famous academic disputation in 1927 at the Solvay Institutes of Physics and Chemistry Here Bohr and Einstein continued their debate, proved to be accurate. However, beyond the theoretical arguments of the world's most accomplished physicists Seventeen of the twenty-nine attendees had while Einstein and Bohr were joined by figures Erwin Schrodinger. It points to the sheer level of brilliance interwar period. The late 1920s also saw Einstein re-conceptualising This was in response to the discovery by the recession of the nebulae, or what is now termed This states that galaxies are moving away to the distance they are from the Milky Way. These speeds are always faster, meaning that the faster it will move away from the Earth. These findings, which were made public in theory of the universe at that time, which supposed that the universe was largely static cosmos had been expanding since the Big Bang Hubble's discoveries forced Einstein to clear that the universe was expanding at an for Einstein's decision to embark on a new He wanted to meet Hubble and thank him for However, the trip is generally more remembered the ostensible purpose of the voyage was to the California Institute of Technology, better During this sojourn Einstein ominously noted capacity to do harm than to do good within increasing use of technology in warfare, an This same aversion to the growing militarism with the novelist Upton Sinclair and the actor Angeles during his visit and who were both Einstein's growing friendship with Chaplin City Lights, a silent film which was significant in American movies. When Albert and Elsa Einstein entered the with the same regard a Hollywood icon could It was also the beginnings of a long friendship Berlin apartment shortly afterwards and Einstein returned again to America early in 1933. While Einstein had been holding his positions and early 1930s, as his fame and accomplishments in his native Germany was changing for the Germany had been mired in political chaos from 1923 onwards had entered into a period That was shattered late in 1929 when the stock and a massive economic depression set in across In Germany, as millions lost their jobs and of the population turned in national elections German Workers' Party, or Nazis, under their In Reichstag elections in 1932 they became in the first months of 1933 Hitler became Within weeks the party effectively turned This was extremely ominous for the country's In the United States he decided not to return in America after a brief visit to Antwerp passport into the German embassy and renounced In Berlin the Nazis had already searched his and over the next year or so Jewish academics across Germany. In the United States, following his decision Einstein quickly acquired a position at the University in New Jersey. It was the institution which he would spend barring a directorship at Brandeis University was primarily associated with Princeton for In the mid-to-late 1930s Einstein undertook Coast of America. A particularly significant engagement resulted American physicist. Together Einstein and Rosen produced a model Wormholes are theoretical structures which together. At the time that Einstein and Rosen produced were a relatively novel concept, but they of theoretical writings on space travel. In due course they became a mainstay of science century onwards. While Einstein was teaching in the United back in his homeland of Germany which would Following their initial rise to power in 1933 the terms of the Treaty of Versailles which In the mid-1930s they began rearming Germany, into the military and building thousands of Then, beginning in the spring of 1938, the into a Greater Germany and to seize territory and Lithuania. When Hitler then invaded Poland in September could no longer appease the Nazis and declared In the immediate term the government of President support for American involvement in what was which it should not involve itself in. However, when Germany's ally the Empire rest in Pearl Harbour in Hawaii in December World War. More than any war in human history it was Despite his pacifism Einstein was soon involved the growing conflict. Indeed this had commenced weeks before the Early in 1939 European physicists had discovered With this discovery the theoretical possibility moved ever closer. A number of European physicists, foremost realised exactly how possible it now was that nuclear warhead. This deeply worried many European scientists, worked in Germany and could be co-opted into one which Hitler and his accomplices would conventional weapon of war despite its absolutely life. Consequently, Szilard and two fellow Hungarian composed a letter to the US government warning weapon before any other state. They sent this to America where Einstein appended the administration of President Roosevelt. What has become known as the Einstein-Szilard followed in the US initiating its own programme The Manhattan Project, the US government's initiated on a piecemeal basis late in 1939, Letter. This ran enormously against Einstein's own of the Nazis acquiring such a weapon before of the dangers of this occurring. This aside, he viewed war of any kind as a civil society in the modern world. Accordingly he did not play a role in the Rather it was led by Robert Oppenheimer, an Though its activities were limited between the war in December 1941 funding and resources became increasingly apparent that the Nazis such as a nuclear bomb at various installations known as 'heavy water' was being produced, properties which could conceivably be used The research here, though, was slow and was missions launched by British Special Forces By that time the Manhattan Project was employing and a nuclear reactor had been demonstrated Eventually, in mid-July 1945 the world's desert of New Mexico. By the time the first nuclear weapon was detonated in Europe for several weeks. However, because of the agreed Allied policy Pacific against the Empire of Japan until conflict was still raging there by the summer Accordingly the administration of President weapon against Japan in the belief that doing if it forced Japan to surrender quickly. Thus, on the 6th of August 1945 the first on the city of Hiroshima, killing upwards 60,000 or so in the months that followed, Three days later a second nuclear device of city of Nagasaki, killing upwards of 80,000 and as a result of the after effects. Japan did quickly surrender, but Einstein and the fallout from them. Shortly after the bombings he declared that, up war. It is no longer rational to solve international He subsequently expressed his regret that the world and the concept of mass energy and in 1905, had contributed towards the development The post-war years saw Einstein continue to nearing his seventies and the pressures of restricted how much he could accomplish. Nevertheless, at Princeton in the late 1940s Field Theory, findings which he published Generalized Theory of Gravitation'. This Unified Field Theory sought to develop could be used to understand the fundamental Efforts had been undertaken by many physicists century to develop such a unified theory, academic community. Einstein's theory attempted to incorporate electromagnetism and gravity and proposed laws, one which could unify forces such as the curvature of space-time with which much concerned. Ultimately his work and that of others in but his research in this respect is nevertheless development of differential geometry, the surfaces, particularly as they apply to space. World War in America also saw Einstein acquire which was largely unprecedented for a theoretical In many ways this went back all the way to in New York City. His theory of relativity had just been confirmed understanding of the universe, while Einstein The New York Times had run a story in December "destroyed space and time," through his Here was the most fundamental overhaul of of Natural Selection a half a century earlier, whereas Darwin's had been viewed as sacrilegious. His associations with figures like Charlie iconic physical appearance all made him a followed. Most tellingly, by the 1940s it was becoming were changing society and the world in practical physics. As all of this occurred he became a figure Hawking later would be in the second half James Lovelock and Richard Dawkins in the By the time his working life came to an end was enormous. Though it may seem unusual to many, Einstein's papers in academic journals, of which there than books. This was and remains the primary means of in the hard sciences. Such books as Einstein authored, of which of work he had already published as academic existing work on general relativity and other accessible to a general audience. Some of these were used as advanced undergraduate theoretical physics for years to come in universities. Additionally, translations were made into work was accessible in dozens of countries Beyond this academic output, Einstein was Einstein Archives at the Hebrew University his private correspondence dating from 1912 He also wrote widely on various political, issues, Unsurprisingly, collected editions writings, such as those published since the University, the university where Albert spent have stretched into dozens of lengthy volumes. body of work was, despite his brilliance and He once proclaimed of himself, quote, "I curious." He never acquired the trappings of wealth Berlin in the 1920s or America in the post-1933 of the abode, where the most lavish adornment play the classical music he loved. His family life, it must be admitted, was His two biological sons went to live with in 1914 and thereafter their relationship Hans later immigrated to the United States remained in Europe and despite maintaining him again after Albert left for America in Eduard later developed psychiatric problems Albert's marriage to Elsa was also strained and it has been widely speculated that Einstein times as a substitute for his own weaknesses Politically, he was humane, holding a lifelong He deeply admired Mahatma Gandhi and his non-violent two became correspondents. Over time his political views moved towards socialism, while he also wrote on numerous global government and an end to competition He held positive views of the United States, the FBI had developed a dossier on him before and by the mid-1950s it ran to over 1,400 a former German and an academic in post-war An intrinsic part of Einstein's character was a professed agnostic and viewed the Bible His Jewish heritage also shaped his life from the United States in the face of the Nazi Einstein also became noted in his later years of Israel. He had visited Palestine back in the 1920s in the aftermath of the First World War. At that time hundreds of thousands of Jews region with the goal of reforming a Jewish around the world. In 1925 Einstein agreed to be listed amongst University of Jerusalem when it was established Then in the aftermath of the Second World who had survived the Holocaust perpetrated for the Holy Land. When the British mandate there expired in state of Israel for the Jewish people in the In 1952 Einstein was offered the ceremonial he declined on account of his age and inability Einstein remained supportive of the Zionist the pacifist in him would have made of the warfare with its Muslim neighbours from the or the Second Arab-Israeli War against its had died. Shortly after the end of the Second World aortic aneurysm, an enlargement of the abdominal It can become blocked, much like any other blood pressure, high cholesterol and smoking. Einstein had the issue operated on successfully despite improving his lifestyle, including again early in 1955 when the aorta ruptured, He was admitted to hospital on the 17th of to intervene to stop the bleeding, proclaiming with dignity when one's time had come. He died the following day on the 18th of April The surgeon who carried out his autopsy afterwards study, though this was done without the permission It was subsequently dissected and the remains of Health and Medicine in Washington D.C., the Mutter Museum in Philadelphia in 2013. It has been suggested that the abnormal number for Einstein's inordinate aptitude for mathematical His body was cremated shortly after his death scattered at an undisclosed location. Albert Einstein was one of the most influential So significant were his findings in his research has become synonymous with elevated intelligence. Perhaps what is most unusual about this is beginnings. In the 1890s he was effectively an international man, moving between his native Germany, Italy their financial and business situation with abilities as a mathematician and physicist. His time at the Polytechnic School in Zurich universities saw fit not to hire him when instead he spent several years working in It was here, while evaluating inventions during he began working on some of the most significant The result, in the annus mirabilis of 1905, humanity's understanding of the nature of of photons and the nuclear and atomic building 1905 changed everything. In the years that followed Einstein was promoted positions, until he eventually reached the the First World War broke out. In the midst of that calamitous conflict he In 1921 he was awarded the Nobel Prize in followed in the decades ahead. What is perhaps most notable about Einstein's the public profile he developed. Visits to the United States, South America, him to advocate on behalf of a number of causes. The most significant was his ringing of the Germany from 1933 onwards. Indeed he immediately renounced his German to the United States. There he continued to note the dangers posed a nuclear weapon. However, it was a double-edged sword for Einstein Germany defeated in the nuclear race was seeing and Nagasaki in 1945. In the aftermath of the war he used his position people in the Middle East following the Holocaust. When he died in 1955 he was the most acclaimed influenced the entire fields of physics, mathematics The history of the twentieth century might it not been for Einstein. What do you think of Albert Einstein? Was he the most revolutionary intellectual inordinate intellect? Please let us know in the comment section, watching.