Hello everyone, this is Aya Asahina. Something really amazing has just been announced Alice in Borderland Season 2 is now streaming on Netflix Has everybody watched it yet? I play the role of a character named 'Kuina' on the show Alice in Borderland. I've received permission to film a video showing the process of me becoming Kuina, so I'd like to share the process with you all. This is really amazing, cause I've talked about how I wanted to make videos relating to the first and second seasons of the show, but I've been unable to film those videos up until now. Since I am now able to do so, I would like to take you guys along with me and share the whole process as soon as possible. Well then, I'm going to head to set right now so I'll be back in a second! From now, I'll be using a voiceover to talk. What I just showed is a facial tool known as 'Inazuma,' which I'm using to depuff my face. This is best used after applying toner or water so your face doesn't sting, so I'm pretty sure I had some toner on my face before using this. So I'm pretty sure that this footage now is me using the tool to depuff my face after I had already put some toner on beforehand. My skin starts to get irritated when I rub or pull on my face really hard, so rather than doing that, I typically just gently press the tool into my skin. Other than 'Inazuma,' I have other different types of facial tools, but I don't really tug at my skin aggressively with them, and will mostly just gently massage them into my skin. I'd like to introduce all my makeup products one by one. I guess this one is something I always use? It's the Dior lip gloss, which I apply first. I'm pretty sure the one I'm using is called the 'Maximizer'. Here, I'm doing this first to plump up my lips. Actually, compared to the first season, my makeup this time in Season Two is a little lighter. That's why the Kuina look we're doing today is a little more toned down than you're all probably used to seeing. I'd also just like to show you all the kind of makeup products we used. I think it was two years ago? It was quite a while back when I actually uploaded a video showing how Kuina's makeup was done, but this is the first time I'm actually taking you guys along the actual process of getting ready on set, and I'm kind of embarrassed watching this footage, thinking 'I'm pretty sure I showed these products in the previous Kuina video...right?' Right now I'm going in with Amplitude's stick foundation, which is super sheer. For today's Kuina look, in order to not make it obvious that I'm wearing quite a bit of foundation, I really made sure to do my makeup very naturally. While I'm blending it out with a sponge, my makeup artist is making my hair a little wavier. If you look behind me, there's actually a wig, and she is doing this so my hair blends with it. Rather than curling it completely, she's using a hair straightener to twist my hair into fine wavy strands. After putting on concealer and hiding any imperfections, I'm going in with the Amplitude powder, that I use often, to quickly powder my face, starting from the top. The makeup for Kuina in the first season was pretty heavy - the eyeshadow was a strong orange, and my lipstick was also a bold orange tone, but for Season 2, although the lipstick was still pretty orange, I'm almost not wearing any eyeshadow at all. I feel like compared to the first season, this time Kuina's look was pretty natural. Before, when I uploaded the first video showing Kuina's makeup look, my hair was actually dyed. With my hair dyed and everything, I wanted to look more in character. But in this video, I'm actually- I literally have to film after this. Before I go to film Alice in Borderland Season 2, I'm actually showing the real process of me becoming Kuina. I'm thinking, like, 'am I really allowed to do this?' But in the middle of filming this video, I was super happy. Earlier, I put on some eyeshadow from the brand MAQuillAGE, and I'm pretty sure this was Burberry? I'm putting on some Burberry blush, and I'm applying it very lightly. If you look closely, my eyeshadow and stuff are super natural compared to when I'm doing my own makeup as myself. At the end of the video, you can see that surprisingly, I transform into Kuina super quickly - this is the highlight of the video, so you'll understand if you watch till the end. I'm saying this in advance, cause I feel like people are thinking 'Huh? This doesn't really seem like she's turning into Kuina,' but in the blink of an eye, in an instant, you'll see that I fully transform into her, so please don't miss out. I'd like it if you were to keep this in the back of your mind while watching. Around the time the first season of Alice in Borderland was released during COVID, we couldn't film for a while. The second season is now streaming around 2-3 years since the first was released, so I feel like there are so many people who must have been waiting for it to come out. Around the time Season 2 was announced, a lot of people were asking me about the release date, and I just kept thinking that I wanted everyone to watch Season 2 as soon as possible. Nothing makes me happier than the fact that Season 2 was announced, as well as the fact that I am able to upload a video on my YouTube channel detailing the process of becoming Kuina, so if you all enjoy this video, I myself will also be very happy. I'm currently applying the Celvoke orange lipstick I showed earlier, and it's as if I put on just enough to add a subtle orange tint to my lips, while my overall makeup look is not heavy at all. For instance, my eyebrows are more natural than usual, and my eyeshadow is also pretty natural. Then, once my hair's done like this, I then tie it up into a single bun, and even though you must be thinking, 'How the hell are you gonna turn into Kuina from this?' but really, in the blink of an eye, probably in about twenty seconds? thirty seconds? I'll be fully turned into Kuina. I feel like you guys will be like, 'it's this simple?!' I suddenly become Kuina in an instant, so please look forward to that scene. It's almost here! My makeup artist has just picked up the wig, so I'm about to become Kuina! Yes! I'm turning into her! Once I install the wig onto the bun, where I tied my hair up, I can transform into Kuina. Kuina's wig is fixed onto the bun area, so you can't actually see most of my natural hair, but since my hair has been made wavy, it looks well-balanced alongside the cornrows. That's why I leave the fine details to my makeup artist while I do Kuina's makeup look. I uploaded a Kuina makeup video a while back, but today's video, the quality is totally different - - I'm actually filming the process of me becoming the 'real' Kuina before we film, so if anyone would like to attempt her makeup look, do so while watching this routine. And above all, Alice in Borderland Season 2 is going to be streaming from the 22nd of December 2022, so I'd be happy if everyone could give it a watch. Well then, I'll see you in the next video. This was Aya Asahina, bye!