(dramatic music) (liquid hissing) - [Narrator] If you've ever you've probably loaded one of these. - Starbucks, between October and December has had something like $3 billion of value is loaded onto these cards. I mean, that's a lot of money. - [Narrator] So much money in fact, that if Starbucks was a bank, it would rank as the 385th And it's money that Starbucks before a single product is even purchased. - Eventually it is a liability and you will find that in lots of gift card programs, they're plenty of people who never use it. - [Narrator] So how important and gift cards to its bottom line? And what role does technology play in its continued evolution? This is the economics of Starbucks. In 1971, the first Starbucks, a small unassuming cafe Fast forward 50 years, and that but Starbucks is a global coffee giant. - Only McDonald's is bigger than Starbucks when it comes to market caps. So they are really a powerhouse when it comes to really the - [Narrator] In its Starbucks expanded slowly It wasn't until 1987 sold the company to its Howard Schultz, that the Starbucks that Schultz began expanding and introduced Americans to Italian drink, the espresso. - They were really founded that they make each beverage As Starbucks has grown, that has gotten more complicated. - [Narrator] Today, Starbucks a 170,000 different varieties of drinks. - These beverages can be very complex. They can take a while. They can take many different ingredients. And so it's good for Starbucks. And that these tend to be but for workers, the baristas, - [Narrator] The company's has transformed to many from the creation of the frappucino to the launch with a pumpkin spice latte. - Pumpkin spice latte, high five it. - They really didn't know that it would take off like it did, but clearly it is formed all around the world really. - We introduced pumpkin to - One additional thing cold beverages have to the company, whether or a nitro iced coffee, or all these cold foam and cold brewed. Increasingly this is so the company has gone through have softened, but they've to keep people interested - [Narrator] In part due to technology has played a large - A key moment of that was in 2009, which was very early for one of these kinds of apps. And they really saw this - At the end of 2021, mobile a quarter of all Starbucks Many of those purchased through a virtual Starbucks gift card, which was previously the only way a customer could order on their phone. Today, a little under one half at Starbucks are done In fact, so many Starbucks or the Starbucks mobile that Starbucks says it holds that was uploaded by That number exceeds the - Starbucks also gets a They own a lot of that data don't because they have where people are using the Starbucks app, they're mobile ordering, Starbucks unique proprietary system. - [Narrator] As mobile payments rise, Starbucks' business Prior to the pandemic, transactions were on the go, either as drive-through or mobile order. - Starbucks started in cities, but really has spread including the suburbs. And a lot of that is through drive-thrus. - [Narrator] These are becoming increasingly important to the company's bottom line. - [Woman] Especially during the pandemic. I mean, these stores have because they kept running and and go and not have to - [Narrator] Starbucks has long said that &quot;It remains committed to a set of values established early in the - Starbucks is very a connection between its even in its drive-thru. They talk about this on earnings calls that there are these They want to make sure that about their Starbucks experience, which is getting increasingly challenging when you're ordering through You're trying to get in and out. - [Narrator] Starbucks says, in the manner in which - The items you will find in the store, they really choreograph that of water is placed into a store. They want this all to feel very similar. - [Narrator] Starbucks has long which it says is built between management and employees. - The workers at it's stores or baristas they are called partners. And this is very central Part of that is that all these partners do get shares in the company, - [Narrator] That relationship going forward for some After two of three Buffalo stores voted in favor of unionization. - [Narrator] Since then, a huge amount of energy and And executives have traveled to meet with workers, to try (indistinct) to the company. They want to maintain with their workers, they They do not want that But according to these workers, they want a more direct - [Narrator] In a statement Starbucks said, &quot;Starbucks's and future is built on always with our mission From the beginning, we've that we are better together as partners without a union between us at Starbucks. And that conviction has not changed.&quot; - They are the world's They are very dominant when and they are really synonymous in a lot of ways, but they (upbeat music)