Just as the internet was finally planting world in the early 2000s, people began to weren't possible. The World Wide Web was continuing to evolve, File sizes got bigger, but for many, internet meant that downloading was going to become The answer to that question was found in a internet users throughout the duration of This software took advantage of a revolutionary of years prior. The technology in question is in the name: become the program that would popularize its Websites could now provide downloads the size the host's end. The internet was about to change forever. It wouldn't take long for uTorrent to become for all your downloading needs. Want to finally get that one file you've uTorrent was the solution...Until things took uTorrent was one of those programs that took in the way that you might think. I mean, the numbers boldly state otherwise, uTorrent went from being a pop-culture icon about overnight, due to a series of both long-term time, remained unrectified. What happened? What is the tragic story behind uTorrent? A program still quite popular, but arguably Now, there was a time during the internet's would check during the day were their uTorrent Well for me, I like to check Morning Brew, I was one of those people that would mindlessly but what if you could turn that pastime into Morning Brew is here to help you with that. It is a free daily newsletter and it gets business news stories. Because I am often so occupied with other date on what's going on in the world. Morning Brew only takes five minutes to tell Whereas traditional news can often be boring and makes learning the news fun. Because of Morning Brew, I just learned that is it still technically Gruyere cheese if Perhaps that's something you can debate There really isn't a reason to not subscribe business, finance, or technology. By visiting the link down below, you can sign Not only is it free, it literally took me So, stay up to date and accurately informed The old tale behind uTorrent's prevalence As we mentioned, a series of very strange and unpopular at the same time. The number of uTorrent downloads was affected, Though the program itself is just not talked themselves with it. Even the renowned package management system 2013. It has essentially become the Voldemort of Not Be Named, and it all boils down to three the lack of regard to adapting with constantly the need of such a program simply becoming As you could probably see, some of these factors but when accompanied with the other problems act as the final nail in the coffin. It is important to note that the components with adapting to the times and its controversial it all has to do with how and why uTorrent It goes all the way back to 2001: the era to the release of the first iPod. Now, why is the iPod important? Well, this new wave of file-sharing was very problem attached to it: piracy! And it first started online hugely with music Rather than going to the record store to buy instead...stealing it! Oh, the horror! And the internet was still the wild west at There wasn't really any legislation put and Napster continued growing like a weed But when the iPod came into play and introduced found a compromise for music pirates. Getting an instant download to a song for before you know it copyright law was updated ole' file-sharing Napster was now history. Of course, some form of online piracy goes the piracy cultural explosion, practically Limewire and then a bunch of other things. But why would piracy mostly start out with entertainment? Well, a big advantage that music had was its A 2-minute song was probably only a couple And on AOL dial-up technology, a file that 10-minutes to download. Standard quality episodes of a TV show or been as big as 500MB, which could take up What if your sibling wanted to use the phone The download would get interrupted, and you'd You'd be out of luck, as that was really dial-up internet speeds at your disposal. The technology just wasn't there yet. Until July 2, 2001. Bram Cohen, a student at the University of that he invented just three months prior: The technology that it used had the same name. The BitTorrent protocol established a whole both secure and made download speeds not much Okay, what does this have to do with uTorrent? We will get there, don't worry. BitTorrent is derivative of an already existing That's what Napster was. With P2P, you basically connected to the host's also on that network that has the file you It would connect you to that person, share to your computer. But what if the person on the other end just their upload speeds were slow? What if the government came in and shut down with Napster)? You wouldn't have access to that download That's when the BitTorrent protocol comes To put it in analogous terms, let's say painting series and now you just want it hanging You happen to have a friend who has the exact a photocopy of it for you. So your friend takes one photo off the wall, it back in his living room, and then does photos. That's the P2P way of doing things. Now, let's say your friend knows four other art series as well, and three of them agree These are called seeders. The fifth guy doesn't want to partake in his wall for now. He's called a leecher. So instead of your friend taking 30 minutes the three other people can divide up the task time and get it done in 5 minutes, the copies Ta-da! That's torrenting. Now in my example, the artwork goes from being with actual torrenting, it is an exact duplicate. Torrenting makes a copy of little bits and them all together to make the new copy of You've probably noticed that the more seeders This is why. Does one of the seeders have a really slow Not a problem. Just prioritize one of the faster ones. Since P2P only has one user it relies on, The more people there are, the more likely which would help increase the speed of your So if you wanted to download a 1GB file back while you were sleeping, and if someone ever to just pause and resume a torrent download Interruptions weren't a problem. Lastly, torrenting had the advantage of creating P2P relied on the network provided by the Taking down the network of a P2P sharing system a torrent, it can always just find another The network is so widely distributed, that connect you with a user that downloaded it the same, since these websites don't actually This is exactly why .torrent files are so big. They are simply just lines of code saying file, now start downloading." Websites hosting these torrent files didn't With the introduction of the program BitTorrent whole new community of torrenters. Now alternative bittorrent clients were starting comes in. Now that might have seemed like a bit of a to understanding how uTorrent came about. As torrenting got more popular, it also became A lot of BitTorrent clients at the time were started hosting ads. The programs themselves took up unnecessary power with sub-par performance, only for some Well, in 2004, Swedish programmer Ludvig Strigeus client. It would be lightweight, non-resource-intensive, After about a year of on and off coding, uTorrent or myu-torrent, which is the name of the letter at the beginning of the word resembles a "U" The true pronunciation of the word is debated, himself calls it uTorrent, I'm just going And very soon after, the program would be But then in December of 2006, the company program and the protocol itself, sees the are now the new owners. Over the years, uTorrent's market share to grow bigger, even surpassing the OG programs. By 2009, uTorrent skyrocketed, and then Limewire's even further. It was only a matter of time that uTorrent It was the go-to for all your BitTorrent client uTorrent was the Google, and all the other Having such a valuable resource at their hands, to make this grow even faster and make even The only way to do that was to change the viable. uTorrent was free, BitTorrent Inc. made all which naturally got a lot of traffic from but what if the company found a way to actually also keeping it free? Well, uTorrent made a decision with one update, be extremely controversial. BitTorrent Inc. saw that they were making So, they decided to now put ads in the actual Naturally, this upset a lot of people, but than they probably appear at face value, and works. Keep in mind that torrenting itself is not It can actually be a very convenient alternative Torrenting copyrighted content is illegal, for, and the reason for this makes total sense. Let's briefly go back to the painting example. Let's say that the creator of these paintings, photocopies of my work without my permission. I run down to his house and I demand him to And because I am so scary and intimidating, Thing is, I don't know that the 3 other So yes while I did successfully shut down count down from 4 to 3. The photocopies will take longer, but you This is why so many people use torrenting It is very hard to regulate and shut down If the Pirate Bay were to suddenly shut down It might become more challenging to find, file from another server (that's what magnet to download the file. These circumstances have created a stigma has led to regular companies not wanting to Only malicious products want to sponsor other so you get malware sponsoring them instead. And so the reason is clear why something like These companies have to make money somehow This actually sort of ties in to how ads on People like to complain about YouTube creators no one likes to sit through commercials when But it's important to keep in mind that, YouTube video alone can sometimes even cost You have equipment, software, media licensing The creator is running a business at the end loss from their production budget, so how Well, through ads, sponsorships, merchandise, When you are providing content for free you and uTorrent is no exception to that, but too. And that was uTorrent's first problem. People weren't as upset about it just having them. It's that uTorrent ads were basically malware Not to mention some of them were...ooh la might be using these programs. It eventually got to the point where uTorrent the user's computer without their full consent. Being a torrenting program, uTorrent had an so a lot of the bigger more main stream companies worked, saw programs like uTorrent as just The malware companies however, had no problem Ever notice how when you go on one of those with pop-up ads and tons of malicious programs? That's because these programs know that websites aren't exactly legal, and are not anything goes. So malware providers can work more efficiently And although uTorrent was a perfectly legal in general caught the attention of these malware uTorrent's mistake was choosing to cave Programs liked Vuze hosted ads that were pretty just weird. They could have easily followed the approach displaying, but they just...didn't. And long time users of uTorrent felt kind program started in the first place. uTorrent started out specifically being a appeal for the people, and consequently, other technology started to evolve with making these uTorrent took a very interesting, ironic turn, on, due to all the unwanted programs and ads It basically began reversing its progress it arguably started. These changes were introduced in version three, to version 2.2.1 (often considered the last switching to another client altogether, since Over the years, users slowly started to question the incident that would make everything start multiple news sites, would occur in 2015. People started to notice that uTorrent was it would soon be revealed that this was because software and was mining bitcoin, using people's Users were livid, saying that what they did uTorrent ever again. These bad changes created a program that was move towards lightweight efficiency. BitTorrent, Inc. saw the kind of backlash on their decisions. The mining program was removed and so were was done. This did lead to a huge fall in uTorrent's not even close. Despite all this calamity and practically up these problems, uTorrent's market share Why is that? It's a couple of things. Firstly, a lot of newcomers within the torrenting malfeasance that the program had on its hands. When they google for a BitTorrent client, the top one that advertises being lightweight, without questioning it. It's at the top of the results for a reason, Secondly, a lot of it is "popularity inertia." uTorrent started off as the most popular program, That's why it's still one of the top results People are just used to it. uTorrent is much safer now than it was, but happened, and now that the alternatives they have ads, AND are open source, they just see The current uTorrent is mostly people who what happened, but had these things never arguably be even bigger, than it already is. For many, uTorrent became the very program to them, that was just unforgivable. The last thing to really bring down uTorrent's affected everyone. Online piracy is at a decline. In 2006, BitTorrent file-sharing accounted that number dropped to 19%, and this is because These companies parallel what iTunes did in online pirates. People could live with spending $0.99 on a much every movie and TV show you've ever Same goes for music programs like Spotify, super expensive programs now subscription The commercial alternatives were now more as necessary anymore. And that was another reason not to use uTorrent. But with streaming services now becoming a day, perhaps we might see people rebel this Only time will tell. Let me make it cleat that this video is not as a company by any means. It is simply a discussion on how one bad marketing damage in the long-term, which can make it should always be careful. The fall of uTorrent is an example of how change in behavior online can lead to the a great product. uTorrent may have gotten the money and the a long, dearly devoted community. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed this video, please subscribe, never miss a future video.