every year EA Sports decide Pele but today it'll be decided by Football Imperialism let me explain the world Football Association believes the so they've cloned 20 football legends and sent them to an abandoned and I've been told to spin and spin this arrow to see so let's say the wheel lands on 11 of Pele's clones would where they would battle it out in a football match the winner would take all the land while the loser is erased from the map and I'll be repeating this process now it's time to pick your favourite and because FIFA Imperialism has begun! and Ronaldinho is our first attacker! and Ronaldinho will be heading... SOUTH and if Ronaldinho heads South so now it's 11 Ronaldinho's vs. 11 Pirlo's and with that whistle the first it would be Ronaldinho with a great save by Pirlo would be followed who would take an early lead oh my days... that is a scary sight but that lead wouldn't last Pirlo would level the score Ronaldinho would take the only for Pirlo to level the score shortly after this is a good chance for Pirlo to defensively Ronaldinho is shocking that's it! what a strike 99 shot power! it's not looking good for Ronaldinho... and a corner right before halftime that may be the worst goalkeeping I've ever seen now it's Ronaldinho down by two but to be honest, anything is possible two shots and it's a whole new game but poor defending by Ronaldinho no no what attack! no is that are we about to see our first just a yellow okay, I'm surprised oh if this goes in, it's over look at Ronaldinho laying there what a strike! Pirlo has a I don't see Ronaldinho coming back from this and there's the final whistle now this is the match Ronaldinho would like to as he's been wiped off the map Ronaldinho has also been removed from the it's gonna be David Beckham! and Beckham will be heading... SOUTHWEST and if Beckham heads Southwest he which means it's one of the best I have no idea who's gonna win this one a strong start for Cruyff Cruyff... to Cruyff! to Cruyff! penalty! this is the first ever penalty in FIFA Imperialism what a poor tackle he got him with the 'meg where is it gonna go? he puts it away! 1-0 for Cruyff inside 10 minutes Cruyff would double his lead in the 25th minute and triple it right before half time Beckham would get on the but it wouldn't be enough to defeat Cruyff with a performance like that Cruyff is but it's time to say goodbye to David Beckham so far, both of our attackers have failed to it's gonna be... oh it's gonna be Eusebio! a Portuguese legend! and Eusebio will be heading... EAST so if you Eusebio's clones head east so now it's the French striker versus the Portuguese one now this is our first striker vs. striker match so I think we're gonna set a new record Cantona would open the scoring early on but goes from you Eusebio in the 37th 45th and 55th minute had him in a but Cantona wasn't going to go down that easy... he scored one then another.. and then another I can't believe how quickly we have Cantina up by one in the 73rd minute and with the game in his hands, we have a penalty! that is the second penalty in three matches! this has never been seen to tie the match... and he's put it away! Cantona did guess the right way, with seconds left in the match a poor tackle by Eusebio would give can Cantona win it?! and he does! in the 90th minute to make it 5-4, and it looks like Cantona has the win here a great effort by Eusebio, but it wasn't round four would see Patrick Vieira it would be a battle between two of a poor clearance by Vieira in the 22nd minute and shortly after he would double his lead Vieira would be able to get but a beautiful strike by and a volley in the 89th minute would see Vieira erased from the map now who is our next lucky attacker... oh it's gonna be Puskas! and the direction he will go is... NORTHWEST Northwest of Puskas's territory is Lev Yashin's and this means we're about to see a lethal striker take on the only goalkeeper this is gonna be very interesting it would only take Puskas 9 minutes no...no! 1-0 for Puskas! I had a feeling this was gonna the only way Yashin probably wins this but even then I don't know but Yashin's clones didn't stand Puskas would score again in the 23rd and in the 69th minute and all that was left to say was bye bye Yashin :( it might have taken five rounds but an icon yeah he did it against a goalkeeper, so but there's still a lot of football for some more spectacular goals heartbreak and ultimately GLORY now who is next up... oh we got Thierry Henry and the Arsenal legend will be heading... EAST now there's nothing but mountains east of Henry's which means he's taken on Ruud after scoring an early goal Gullit would double but Thierry Henry would be able to a great ball from Henry would give but no luck... that chance would go on to haunt but twice moments later to guarantee the who is up next wheel... oh we have Pele! Pele is making his debut! Pele will go... NORTHWEST so this means we're gonna see I think Pele has this one but a nice move-in strike by now an early goal really doesn't but Pele has a lot to prove he is the highest rated card in FIFA, oh what a saved by Xavi! it's not gonna be as easy as he thinks Xavi would get a chance to double his lead what a save by Pele! but Xavi kept the pressure on, and would this is not looking good for Pele things would only go from bad to the highest rated card in FIFA Pele would get one back before the the highest rated card in now with Pele gone I have no but Ronaldo is up next! Brazilian Ronaldo, not Cristiano Ronaldo and the direction he'll be attacking is... NORTHEAST which means Ronaldo is taking on Stoichkov, he even won the Ballon D'Or and both of these players actually but only one will move on to the next round but nothing would separate the two players as every time one of them would score the other would score as well now there's eight minutes left in the match goes straight to a penalty shootout as per the regulations of the and there it is! our first penalty it really is anyone's match now here we go... Stoichkov shooting he puts it away though oh I guess Ronaldo's keeper is also shooting? puts it away, great pens who will be the first to miss... Ronaldo... wow off the post - Stoichkov was close great penalties here... the keepers don't have a chance what a penalty! now every player has practically shot already if Ronaldo I think this is his 10th and he saves it! the first Stoichkov goes through, and now every player the wheel has picked and Puskas only beat Yashin! so it's time to break the curse who is up next? it's Xavi okay he had a great first match and the direction Xavi is going is... WEST and for the third row we have a this time it's Garrincha can Xavi finally break the wheel's curse? let's find out just like his match against Pele, no way what a play by Xavi! 1-0 the tiki taka is crazy! Garrincha would get his chances, and after taking a 3-0 lead early in the Brazilian fans I'm sorry! but it looks like all the Brazilian players two of them by this man right here but Garrincha wasn't ready to be eliminated he still has 15 minutes for two more goals and Garrincha kept the pressure on but I guess Xavi wasn't worried, because but you won't believe what happened next hold on... hold on... do we have a red card? Xavi has just got a red card in the he could have broken his legs! does Garrincha have enough time let's find out - oh my days what a ball! and just like that it's 4-3! the absolute drama in this match could Garrincha complete the Garrincha... Garrincha what are you doing? you're letting him walk in! and he sweats it! the defensive collapse by we have no more Brazilians in this competition Maldini is up next this is Maldini's first trip and he is going... SOUTH which means we're about to see one of the greatest Italian defenders take now with less than five minutes in this match Cantona needs to tie it up this may be Cantona's last two minutes remaining can he cut it back... Maldini's defense no through Madini's legs! their reactions show you exactly how they feel Cantona has just forced a and as usual the keeper shooting first wow... just wow Maldini... down the middle Cantona... Maldini with the save! is he okay his head hit the post wow if Maldini is able to save Cantona can't miss and he doesn't now if Maldini scores this he does win can Maldini put this one away... that was the worst plan I've seen Cantona up next, it's all level off the post but it still goes in Maldini must score has he just thrown the whole match away? I believe in him right down the middle Cantona hasn't learned yet okay Maldini make a save here great save - great pen, I mean all the pressure on Maldini if down the middle? Maldini has been eliminated and with that win we are who will be the champion of icon imperialism? we soon will find out George Best would make his debut in round 11 and despite having the worst he managed to pull off a 4-2 now after 11 rounds we've except Zidane so maybe he's gonna be in this next one, and of course right on cue Zidane is up next and Zidane will head... SOUTHWESR and by going southwest Zidane's who has been in Garrincha and and is one of the favourites to win it all but Zidane can change everything this is basically the El Clasico of Imperialism we got - oh my days what a strike by Zidane! what I was saying is this is basically we got Xavier Hernandez from Barcelona and Zidane from Real Madrid, and by the 35th minute, it seemed defenders, where are you? that was the worst defending down by three goals at the start of the Xavi has gotten one back if he I swear he deserves to win it all Zidane can put the match away if he scores here... and he does! Zidane looks like the new favourite and one of the Zidane's would start to get bored Zidane what are you doing why aren't you in net?! what has happened here, that but it wouldn't matter as Zidane would hold round 13 saw Matthaus head and a poor tackle by Matthaus would can Pirlo set the tone of the and he can what a strike by Pirlo! that's his second free kick do not foul Pirlo, that is the advice but Matthaus wasn't intimidated only to have Pirlo take the and then double it early in the second half now with 30 minutes left in this but anything can happen in FIFA Imperialism we all know that by now so let's and Matthaus would have his but that miss would haunt him, as and send Matthaus packing home so many great players still on this wheel... we have Johan Cruyff next and EAST I didn't have to draw the we got Cantona vs Cruyff a quick attack from Cantona would that may be the worst attempt but Cruyff would quickly even the score and this would happen over and over again Cantona would score, and but when Cruyff took a 5-4 lead late in the match Cantona started to panic now with less than five minutes left in this match Cruyff does have a chance to end it once across - puts it through and that's it! it's so easy to that's why we just hit the record for most Cruyff has defeated Cantona who had a on 15 the wheel chose Gullit so it was Ruud Gullit versus George Best I swear Best must have secretly been a goalkeeper as he didn't just make one or two great saves but he made three great saves but Gullit was finally able to and Best wasn't able to keep up the Gullit clones would go on to score three goals and we'd say goodbye to Best 15 players have already been which means we're down to our last five players who is our next attacker it's gonna be Cruyff it was almost Cruyff will head... NORTHEAST which means Cruyff clones are this is the biggest match so far I don't know who's gonna win what in the world is Zidane doing? why is he taking the corner? the tactic must have confused Cruyff as Zidane would get a golden what a save by Cruyff! if that went in, I didn't see Cruyff coming back so it was no surprise that the momentum Cruyff to level it... and he does! and he'd get a chance to take can he find an option... Cruyff... to Cruyff! he's on side! it's 2-1 right before halftime it would go from bad to worse for Zidane as Cruyff it is not looking good for Zidane now the next score really if Cruyff can triple his lead and he does! 4-1 in the 60th minute! are we looking at the future Zidane has been eliminated by Johan Cruyff we are down to our last four players who is playing next we have which way is he going... he's going SOUTHWEST I think Pirlo has been the most he's taken down some big big names will he be able to do it again against Cruyff? Pirlo was able to keep up against because every time Cruyff would but a late goal from Cruyff before half time a mistake would help Cruyff double his lead and Johan Cruyff has just put out if I was one of the other Pirlo has been wiped off the map and now no matter what happens in the next if it lands on Puskas he can only play Cruyff if it lands on Gullit he can only play Cruyff so I can't even imagine how but who will they play next... it's gonna be Puskas the winner of this match goes on to play Gullit may the better icon win Puskas has made it this far after only winning will he be able to pull off an Puskas would get a chance to open the minutes later Cruyff would take Cruyff can take the lead here and he does 1-0! Johan Cruyff inside 25 minutes! and then he would show Puskas to that may be the most important will they be able to double their lead Cruyff down the wing... to Cruyff! no he tried to find Cruyff but he couldn't! 1-0 at halftime Cruyff is just 45 minutes away from playing Gullit in the but will this man spoil it for him? we're about to find out... if Cruyff can somehow find a second goal in Cruyff can he find Cruyff he finds him! shoots! what a strike! a trivela from inside the what an important goal in this competition and he can only thank himself for that Puskas with the pressure, can he he gets past Cruyff! and of course he puts it away Puskas says one goal away from a with just minutes left in the why in the world is Cruyff the why is he shooting? he saves it get - back in your net right now we're a minute away from finding out our finalists will Cruyff be able to hold on Cruyff is on to the way to the and let's just talk about what it his competition began with where we saw the first penalty of FIFA Imperialism then a tough matchup against not one French icon but two followed by a statement win against one and of course now, his win against Puskas now even with two players left on the wheel we still have to spin to see who is will they be able to break the wheels curse? Cruyff is the attacker he hasn't had trouble so let's see if he can do it against Gullit ladies and gentlemen it all comes down the winner of this match according should be the highest rated icon in the game and it's either gonna be Cruyff or Gullit let the best icon win it would only take three no way... no way if there's a red okay it's just a yellow if Gullit somehow went down to I don't think Cruyff would I'll never understand why the keeper no way - we have a 1-0 lead! a mistake by Gullit has given Cruyff an early lead the dream start for the Johan Cruyff's Cruyff plays this short to Cruyff... he finds Cruyff to find - to Cruyff, to Cruyff! what a play by the Cruyff's! 2-0 inside 15 minutes Gullit has a tough mountain to and a mistake by Cruyff could do just that Gullit with a chance right before halftime no the ref blows the whistle! a great pass from Gullit would give Gullit with his chance to get on the board here he's gonna break away... can yes he can - it's 2-1! Cruyff doesn't have the trophy just yet can Gullit find a second goal here, 65th minute... great defensive work by Cruyff but Cruyff wasn't making it any very bad for Gullit here... no way Cruyff for the goal gives him a 3-1 lead can he respond to that goal... can Gullit find the net yes he can, he can - no off the post! that was Gullit's chance, he still has the ball and he puts it away! the pressure is on - Gullit is not with seven minutes left on the clock Cruyff - with a chance here puts it back, shoots! and he's put it away! Cruyff has a two goal cushion in the 86th minute I can't see Gullit coming back from this now Gullit would need something but Cruyff just wouldn't let it happen and that's the final whistle! Cruyff is the winner of icon imperialism! and if you enjoyed this video, PEACE:)