menin aeide thea Peleiadeo Akileos): Sing, Goddess, the Rage of Achilles. The very first line of the Iliad sets the of the King of the Myrmidons is dead, slain In his grief, Achilles' wrath knows no bounds. Consumed with vengeance and bloodlust, no match for the immortal son of Thetis. As the Trojan army flees back behind their Prince of Troy. As Achilles chases Hector around the walls the Myrmidon's wrath. Alas, Hector's fate has been weighed upon Knowing the Gods have abandoned him, the Prince to make his final stand. The showdown between Hector and Achilles is in all of western literature. Yet equal to its impact is the everlasting Was there ever a war between the Greeks and Was there even a city of Troy? In this video, we will compare fact to legend, Iliad. This episode is brought to you by Intel thanks Assembly and Total War Saga: TROY - a brand-new which dives into the legendary 10-year Trojan Greece. New game from the award-winning series allows legendary heroes Achilles and Hector and fight Minotaurs, and Giants. This game blends grand strategy, turn-based battles. A huge campaign map with 200+ settlements the Late Bronze Age in all of its glory! Total War Saga: Troy will be available for during the first 24 hours at the launch today! For more information check out the link below! The real history of the Trojan War is dubious The Iliad itself is inseparable from the magic divine intervention for both sides: In Book wreaks havoc through the Greek army, allowing to their Ships, only for Poseidon to grow Ajax with superhuman strength, allowing him When this magic is stripped away, is there city of Troy, or a great war fought outside Before we talk about the potential existence of the wider world it existed in. The Epic Cycle, which the Iliad belongs to, . This is the most famous era of Ancient Greece, Sparta, the iconic Hoplite, and the Persian However, in truth, the stories of Homer's to a classical Athenian as the fables of King Indeed, to understand the historical context millennium earlier, to the early Bronze Age, Rising to prominence around 1600BC, these would have been familiar, yet alien, to the They worshipped an early form of the Olympian known as Linear B, which was wholly distinct Their power was centered in aristocratic palace the most important of which was the titular Agamemnon of the House of Atreus was said The Mycenaeans were a thalassocracy, with They roamed the seas, growing rich by trade The Eastern Mediterranean Bronze Age world by the ambitious Mycenaean sealords. However, the Myceneans were as much warriors came to trade, so too did they come to conquer. Across the Mediterranean, the sight of bird-beaked all who saw them. This golden age was not to last, for in the of the Eastern Mediterranean, save Egypt, proportions known as the Bronze Age collapse. What brought about this destruction of civilization to the brutal invasions of the vaguely defined Mycenaeans pirates. Whatever their origin, the great Bronze Age in their wake, and in the fallout, Ancient known as its Dark Ages: Trade links were severed, artwork became more simplistic. Most importantly, Linear B was abandoned, However, even as the Greeks of the Dark Ages of Mycenae, they never forgot the stories mighty seafaring ancestors. Over time, the Mycenaean era came to be seen walked freely amongst mortals. To the Peloponnesian shepherd, the Gods were in an ancient tale did not compromise its Without a writing system, these stories were One poet who probably existed at the end of Modern historians are split on whether Homer upon each other's works, so for the sake as the former. The seminal poet told the story of a vast the Aegean sea to lay siege to the Great City This story was the memory of an ancient war, were bound to interfere. By the time Greek civilization re-emerged epic had been forever branded into its social and Sophocles. Thus far we have explained how the Homeric the mythicized memory of the Mycenaean Bronze With that said, to answer whether the Trojan to the late Victorian age, and dive down the The modern historiography of Troy is tied to some the father of modern Archaeology, Schliemann was a massive admirer of Greek decided to dedicate his life to the search Fortunately for him, he was friends with Frank Empire who just so happened to own a piece claimed to be the site of Homer's great Allowed to excavate Hisarlik, the German archaeologist As his team dug straight down, Schliemann cities, all built atop one another throughout These archaeological layers were promptly The German asserted that the second deepest was the city from the Iliad. He even 'liberated' a collection of Bronze them over his problematically young wife, In truth, Troy II most likely dated back to the Trojan war could have taken place. To confound matters, in his haste to get to thrown out the artifacts found in Troys VI be Homer's Troy. Schliemann died in 1890, leaving behind an discovered the true city featured in the Iliad. Nevertheless, if there ever was a Troy, then for it. To explain why, we must jump back to the Bronze By the early 1200sBC, the war-like Myceneans civilization of Crete, and much of the southwestern This expansion put them on the doorstep of Feuding between the Hittites and Myceneans two civilizations' spheres of influence TOTAL WAR was a possibility. In this climate, northwestern Anatolia was catch, a crucial borderland between two war-like, Troy itself was strategically crucial for Therefore, if there ever was a Trojan war, at the apex of Mycenaean territorial expansion, to secure a foothold against their Hittite Such a geopolitically crucial conflict could legend of the Iliad was born. Based on the discovery of an inscribed seal the modern consensus is that the Trojans themselves to the Hittites. While the Trojans of the Iliad appear to anachronistically Olympian Gods, other clues to their Luwian-Anatolian The name of King Priam for example, is likely meaning "exceptionally courageous", while Pari-zitis, another attested title among the In the Iliad, Priam practices polygamy, a Anatolian Kings, while Paris is a renowned who unlike the Greeks were excellent archers. Furthermore, the young Prince's characterization the legacy of the Mycenaean outlook on the saw as more hedonistic than their own. Perhaps the most compelling parallels we can a thousand ships. Noble women of Hittite-related cultures tended than their Greek contemporaries. Homeric tradition relates that Helen was whisked of love Aphrodite, and delivered to Paris In truth, if there ever was a real Helen, Spartan origin. However, her elopement with a Trojan Prince but likely the result of an ambitious woman norms by fleeing to a land where freedom and Overall, these surviving glimpses of Luwian-Hittite all point to the fact that Homer was indeed happened between proto-Greeks and Anatolians, Greek living 400 years after the conflict. Other kernels of reliable historiography in this great war took place in real life. In book two of the Iliad, the seminal poet united Greek army, a list that has a remarkable late Mycenaean archaeological sites. Later Homeric tradition relates that when fell into chaos and infighting, which corresponds Trojan war takes place right before the Bronze Perhaps the conquest of Troy was a last ditch their power and prestige, before their civilization It is not only Greek sources that shed evidence Surviving Hittite texts are full of many mentions their role in aiding the Assuwa rebellion, the west coast of Anatolia, including a certain Imperial overlords around 1500BC. Wilusiya was almost certainly Troy, and its the city, Ilios, was derived. Meanwhile, the Ahhiyawa were of course, the to rebel against their Hittite rivals. The word "Ahhiyawa" itself is probably As compelling as it might be to link the Assuwa match for a few reasons. Firstly, Hittite records claim that the Greeks Secondly, the insurrection was eventually Finally, this conflict took place two hundred However, the existence of these battles in between them and the Mycenaeans for the city age, making it very possible that the proto-Greeks again in later centuries. We've now accumulated a healthy amount of war could well have happened. But does the archaeological evidence line chroniclers? Despite Schleimann's initial bungling, the in 1890 by a more competent Wilhelm Dorpfeld. Unlike Schliemann, who dug as far down as the excavation of the comparatively newer Through painstaking labour, he managed to that had once boasted high walls and towers rich and powerful. Dated to have been inhabited from 1700 to of Homer's war. However, evidence of its eventual destruction but rather a natural disaster: Earthquake. This revelation shook the scholarly world, the destruction of Troy in the Iliad was not Poseidon was the Olympian God of Earthquakes, Could it be that the iconic wooden horse that but Mycenean chroniclers interpreting Troy's Poseidon's wrath? These theories would persist until the 1930s, Blegen took charge at the Hisarlik site. His work centered around the site of Troy Firstly, Troy VII was not a new city at all, the same foundations after the earthquake. Secondly, its existence was punctuated by Within what had once been its fortified citadel, wealthy families were now subdivided, as if The pithoi that had once stored grain, wine longer. All signs pointed to the fact that Troy VII Blegen also found signs of fire damage, and Blegen's discoveries would be built upon Korfmann on the site of Troy VII revealed him had barely scratched the surface. While they had focused their excavations around Korfmann's meticulous dig-team revealed complete with homes, walls, and an underground for two thousand years. Like the citadel above it, the lower city Evidence of fire damage was widespread, arrowheads of the dead remained unburied, and piles of defenders to hurl upon the enemy invading It was almost certainly war that brought down century BC. So did that legendary duel between Achilles Most likely not. But was there a great city of Troy? The evidence both literary and archaeological Finally, did an armada of Greek warriors ever its mighty walls? That, we may never know for sure. But as archaeologists continue to explore it becomes evident that there is some truth We will continue exploring the semi-mythical subscribed to our channel and have pressed The link to our podcast is in the description! We would like to express our gratitude to who make the creation of our videos possible. Now, you can also support us by buying our This is the Kings and Generals channel, and