More Passkey questions. Hi, everyone. askleo.com. I recently got an email with a number decided this would be a good opportunity Here's the first one. Google may know that it's definitely know that it's Google asking? This is even worse when you're saying without me even knowing. Let's Let's assume someone breaks Computers are able to ask many number Would enough return numbers, they Pass keys work in the background, they're being used because one is you have to identify yourself For For example, let's say I'm using service, and it wants to use a pass key. The phone is going to ask for my pin, or it's going to check my face, that authenticates that I am Once that authentication happens, then and Honestly, assuming somebody Nobody breaks as far as I'm concerned. While it's theoretically possible, I that I really don't think it's Now, you talked about public private keys. I understand that that's what neither key is public. They are just two keys or in conjunction in this scenario. The problem is that proper encryption and trust me, they are using proper sure, you could try and brute force one thousand or million years to do it that's the timing it would take for these Next question. If a past key is stored in my device, what a major operating system update or change After a major OS update, To what part of my device Hardware or software or both? It's tied to the device, like an OS upgrade or something just like it didn't impact anything else Now, a wipe of that machine, a reinstall erase everything, including But that's not a problem. Pass keys are never the only way They are the most convenient way. It's a tap or confirmation your device, and then you're done. Always, there is always But when you think about it, setting up a new phone. How do you set up a passkey? You sign in to that service set up the passkey on that phone. The other technique, sure, but that's probably going out of style It could be as simple as a notification signed in, or an email that can contains to confirm that you are who you are. There's always a way to sign in, And even better, if you're using There are pros and cons of that, well, you reinstall your password vault You can then start using them once again. Question number 3. I use a password management tool, and they I think it's a good idea change my master password to a pass key. If someone breaks into one to my password management. My master password is only in my head. Now, to be clear, for pass keys, key to open your password vault, like I mentioned earlier, pass keys for all of the So that's not quite what I suspect If it is about actually signing Yeah, I'm with you. I'm using only a long, strong two-factor authentication. At some point, I may re revisit that, right approach for the password vault. Question number 4. He told me encryption is all Of course, there are infinite prime the more difficult to identify they are. So there might be doubles in the known, This is another gateway, know and think about. I really don't know what exactly The encryption algorithms that are being on prime numbers, have been deeply after a serious level of vetting. There's no back entrance. There's no risk of this duplication. Believe me, mathematicians the robustness of this technology. But I'll put it in a If there were a problem the internet would break because this is whenever we use encrypted connections. Https is built on exactly the same that ensures your connections are secure. They are not crackable, and It's the same concept It's really not something I worry about. To be clear, I encourage these questions. Pass keys are a new frontier, for us to all understand or become I honestly believe that they do lead But like anything, you and I have to trust So ask your questions. Hopefully, I'll give you help you develop that trust. For updates, for comments, and more, visit askleo. askleo.com/172840. I'm Leo Notenboom, and this is askleo.com. Thanks for watching.