(soft music) - [Narrator] Our galaxy is made and at least 100 billion planets. How many are like Earth? With an atmosphere, complex geology, flowing water, and abundant life. Astronomers are seeking answers in countless photons racing past the Earth and in whole new theories about What they are finding has only sharpened one of the is biology a powerful of cosmic evolution or is life rare in a galaxy For a millennia, we have hoping for a sign that life In modern times, the search has become a central quest Giant observatories equipped with a new generation now allow us to detect planets in solar systems across the galaxy. And there's a whole new way of seeing that has vastly expanded the search. Earth in the 21st century. Computers increasingly shaped learn, travel, grow food, buy and sell, make things. The amount of processing power doubles every two years. This trend called Moore's law has turbocharge the pace Vast centralized supercomputing facilities have sprung up to search in the torrent of data now Astronomers once consumed and making measurements in cold observatories across now write computer programs, analyze data, and build models that simulate the complexities Far from settling the their discoveries have reignited one of the oldest disputes in science. To the Greek philosopher, Aristotle, a perfect Planet Earth sat firmly at the center of The universe beyond was at least by any creatures other than gods. Not everyone agreed. Epicurus of Samos and his followers imagined an infinity of An ever evolving cosmos gave rise to a boundless So too were the modern our galaxy is filled and potentially alien civilizations, we just have to find them. Astronomers have already determined that stars like our Sun are not uncommon, that planets the size of Earth, at the right distance to support liquid water could number in the billions. Yet a very different reminiscent of Aristotle. Biology is so complex, requires and so much time that Earth a rare oasis of life Who is right? Back in the early 1960s, a modern day epicurean, theorized that signs of alien intelligence may well be streaming by us Employing a radio telescope he targeted to nearby an orange star just 10.5 light years away, and Tau Ceti, a yellow star about three quarters the Since Drake began his work, the Search for Extraterrestrial has expanded to hundreds of astronomers, thousands of stars, and a wide Searchers have checked and rechecked Epsilon Eridani, Tau Ceti, So far, after six decades of searching, they found no repeating But they haven't given up because there are so many more places and different new ways to search. Even as Drake looked for signals, other observers began looking for signs The Dutch-American sought evidence in the light of stars. After comparing photographic plates taken over three decades, he found that several as if tugged upon by In particular, Barnard's Star, a red dwarf in the neighborhood of our sun showed enough movement he'd found an orbiting planetary system. He spotted other nearby wobblers, the Lalande 2185, 61 the third closest visible star to us. Van de Kamp's findings did an error in the telescope itself doomed his results to wide rejection. But his gut feeling that post an abundance of planets took hold. And yet, what astronomers began to see is not what they expected. In the winter of 1991, engineers at the Arecibo had noticed structural flaws They'd ordered it frozen in position. This limitation gave astronomers, Alex Wolszczan and Dale Frail, the time they needed to observe a rapidly spinning pulsar. Most pulsars spin very fast, emitting a flash with each revolution. One of their targets flashed but its timing was not predictable. It seemed to flash faster and best explained by the of two dense rocky planets. A third, much smaller world Three burned out zombie planets orbiting the corpse of a dead star. These are not the only the oldest known planet called Methuselah rides above the Milky Way. At more than two and a half times heavier than the largest planet in Methuselah lumbers along in 100 year orbit around a pair of dead stars, These discoveries became to theories about how solar and how planets like Earth come to be. The reigning idea goes back called the solar nebula model. This universal model is set in motion by the explosion of a giant star. Shock waves from the blast cause a massive cloud of This computer simulation shows the remarkable events that follow. Huge volumes of dust and gas began to stream into The tighter the cloud is A storm erupts, a raging hurricane of In its eye, as temperatures As matter flows toward it, the central region becomes This disc is shaped by fierce hot winds from the newborn star which push lighter while leaving dust and rocks As the winds die down, Beyond a certain distance planets formed quickly, growing large as they Inside the frost line, dust grains and rocks coagulate into solid bodies most perhaps a kilometer As they collide or merge, they form the planets we know today. In time, eight emerge to spin peacefully around If our solar system was any guide, astronomers expected to find rocky planets similar to Earth, Venus and where iron and silicon to make solid planetary course. Cool guess worlds like Jupiter and Saturn would orbit farther out in the frosty zone where ammonia, methane and water condense into small by gravitationally sweeping Even further out, icy titans would crystallize after had been captured by the It didn't take long for the data to explode this as a new age of planet hunting unfolded. (upbeat music) Looking into the southern astronomers examined an infant star and attended an extra The star, Beta Pictoris, is 50% hotter, and almost Its dense solar disk extends some four times Passing stars have been producing waves of turbulence. The planet in an orbit twice is adding to the chaos. A NASA simulation shows a top view, the planet's gravity is on a spiral path toward the star. A side view shows pressure waves created by its slightly tilted orbit. These waves ramp up collisions between icy and rocky New models of solar system formation would have to take into account a host of factors at work in the size of the solar nebula, the type of parents star, external influences, and the interaction of planetary bodies. Astronomers saw this dynamism at work as their planet discoveries piled up. Several teams focused on detecting wobbles in the light of stars As the star moves toward us, then away, it will change color, shifting from blue to This can reveal planets orbiting even if they lie very far away from us. In October 1995, Swiss astronomers, Michel use this radial velocity method to examine the star, 51 Pegasi, 51 Pegasi is like our sun, but 23% wider and 11% more massive. Wobbling motions in this star's light implied the presence of a giant planet, 47% less massive than Jupiter, but one and a half times its size. Dimidium, as the planet is now called, defied all expectations. It sits in an orbit that is than Mercury is to our sun. This close orbiting gas giant is hotter than Jupiter by at How did it get into such The planet at 51 Pegasi was only one in a string of oddball worlds found patrolling their Large rocky planets Small gas planets. Worlds covered in ice, or lined with flowing lava. With discoveries like these, it was our solar system that To understand the full and how they formed within astronomers needed to target and to discern details on a finer scale. In 2009, astronomers developed a new planet hunting strategy, combining spacecraft, Would it show just how unique Earth is or would it tip the scales of a galaxy filled with inhabited worlds? Astronomers pointed the at a group of about 500,000 stars up to 3000 light years away. Their aim, to detect the when a planet sails across its face. For the technique to work, the planet must orbit between star and telescope. Using this transit technique, Kepler astronomers with the help of citizen spotted nearly 2700 new planets. Kepler's successor, the Transiting Exoplanet sweeps across almost all of the sky looking at the brightest stars near Earth. But the types of planets TESS is revealing swings the pendulum back toward Aristotle. Transit surveys like these tend to find big planets These missions, working in concert with and ground based observatories, have turned up still more hot Some facing powerful solar winds are rapidly losing their atmospheres. Based on the Kepler data, scientists estimate make up just under a fifth of all planets. The most prevalent type, at just over 50% of all known with rock or ice cores, surrounded by atmospheres of Some theories suggest that deep inside, bolder-sized carbon diamonds rain downward toward their rocky cores. The ones detected so far They may be former Jupiters that lost mass or gas giants that were flung But in the data, at a point smaller than this class of mini Neptunes gives way to dense rocky These super Earths make up 18% of exoplanets among them, Kepler-22b, is a super Earth revolving in the habitable This planet may be a waterworld clinging to a massive rocky core. Orbiting close to the star 55 Cancri is a rocky planet almost eight times more Its surface is a scorching Kepler-452b has an orbit and a parent star similar to the sun, but the planet is some five so it's likely a cloudy Then there are the Earth-sized planets, about 11% of the total. Earth-size does not Considered these planets HD 21749, 53 light years from Earth, is an orange K-type star It's planet C, maintains that its year is only Its surface is rocky, likely hovering around Neighboring planet B is a hot mini-Neptune 23 times the mass of Earth. Within a deep layer of clouds, temperatures average This planet, 1.3 times the mass of Earth, closely orbits the star LHS 3844. With a year lasting only 11 Earth days, its surface would be Finally, the sun-like star, Pi Mensae, boasts a planet twice the size of Earth. Its surface temperature is Still, as observational and computational techniques advance, there are glimmers of hope for Red dwarfs are the galaxy's They are hard to see, lightweight, cool, and much fainter than the sun. Their planets orbit close in, their years rushing by in just a few days. Among them, Proxima Centauri, With barely 12% of the Sun's After extensively studying the astronomers have confirmed at Proxima Centauri b completes an orbit in a It revolves at the distance just like Earth. Like many red dwarfs, Proxima Centauri has a stormy temperament, large flares blasting with deadly ultraviolet, X ray and gamma radiation likely eroding away any Meet Proxima Centauri b, part of a breed of so These planets orbit so that they become gravitationally locked with one side facing perpetually in and the other out. One side is always arid and the other in shrouded in thick ice. Can a watery ring with exist in the twilight zone between them? Here is another candidate. TRAPPIST-1 is an ultra cool dwarf star that hosts at least seven planets, all bunched into close orbits. All are made of rock, but with densities that At just 11% the diameter of our sun, this star puts out just Fortunately, there is Like tussling siblings, the planets jostle one another's orbits, tidal friction causes them Those closest to the star those farthest are icebound. The fourth planet out, has the potential for liquid water. You probably won't find an In time, astronomers' or ground-based instruments will widen their discoveries to include more planets What they have found to date has already transformed theories of how our solar system formed, while dramatically altering the odds that we will find other Soon after our star Jupiter forms in the icy gas-rich region beyond the frost line. It quickly cuts off the flow of matter to the inner solar system, slowing the formation of rocky worlds. Scientists have used supercomputers to project Jupiter's path amid countless small objects that fill the early solar system. The rings show the orbits flashes marked collisions between them. The blue ring tracks the orbit of Jupiter. As it grows, Jupiter increasingly responds to the gravitational as well as the pushing and Its orbit begins to shrink. Named for the turn a scientists called Jupiter's With the rising giant does not swallow, it flings out of the solar Chaos reigns as one smooth orbits turn into a disordered swarm. The simulation shows Jupiter reaching the At this time, Saturn Jupiter's grand tack would have dramatically reduced the mass of the inner solar system. If a super Earth had formed, it was likely obliterated From then on, the planets were bound to be relatively small. Ironically, Jupiter's destructive foray may have sowed the seeds of life by ferrying in large Destructive impacts continued, possibly bringing an end to the life bearing chances of Mars. Earth was not out of the woods. Scientists theorize our planet was hit by a called Theia. Instead of destroying the young Earth, the angle of impact that would coalesce into the moon. Over time, the moon's gravity acted to slow Earth's Tidal effects from the moon's helping to create conditions Jupiter continued to Working in tandem with Saturn, the gas giant shoved Uranus and Neptune off to the edge of interstellar space, that disrupted the orbits flinging them toward the sun. These ice projectiles are thought to have delivered to our fledgling world. Ironically, one of the very to be examined by both Piet turns out to be arranged Epsilon Eridani has a cloud of icy debris leftover from the system's formation in about the same place as our Oort cloud. A second disk of rocky bodies, the equivalent to our Kuiper belt, and a gas giant planet at the outer edge of a ring of asteroids like our Jupiter guarding our main belt. Astronomers don't yet know, but there could be a world like ours. The search for other Earths has long focused on the where Earth-sized planets might There, they'd have time ocean currents, volcanism, and other factors that But the tangled history shows that making a life-bearing planet is a matter of rare circumstance Accordingly, some astronomers are seeking to redefine the search, focusing instead on finding that could support life. The most habitable planet, they say, may not be exactly like Earth. In a class all its own, a super habitable planet could be about one and a It orbits an orange colored K-dwarf star, cooler and longer lived than the sun. Set in the habitable zone of its star, the planet is lined with abundant water, a molten interior spins off Together with a thick atmosphere, it deflects cosmic rays that pose a danger to life forms. Geological activity produces kept low by erosion. With stable conditions the chances are good can come together to spawn life and generate a habitable climate. From the thousands of extrasolar scientists have distilled a list of 24 Super habitable planets with these general characteristics. How will we know if there is life there or on any other candidate? Future space telescopes will to search for oxygen, methane, as starlight filters Giant new ground-based observatories may take actual pictures of planets, opening a window into climate, seasons, oceans, even In the absence of evidence like this, a skeptical follower of Aristotle may conclude that our planet But the new Epicureans with hold to a different vision. They believe the sheer number means we must not be alone. If our world developed curious about their place in the universe, then so too did another. Even now, its inhabitants of a yellow G-type main sequence star somewhere in the Milky Way. They see a tiny, pale blue dot tucked into a remarkably circular orbit. Will they wonder if they perhaps with intelligent life able to communicate or will they wonder after and running planetary formation models, is it big enough or special (soft music)