Every single sentence that you produce in the universe before. I find It's about structure. You want the structure it. We're polishing our ideas and then giving. opportunities come to writers. writers. Tell me something that I have no idea I love this. This is very embodied feeling about We were talking last night about the edition you would try to piss off like So, the idea is I was editing a magazine that was a lot about ideas and um, I felt that we people were kind of provoked by that to maybe be sure that it was a different And Yeah. like rotate, not meaning that there was five of the same overlapping group of people. And um, say outrage, but if there was some disturbance. And if it wasn't until we were hearing nothing and disturbed by it, then it was like, hmm, we didn't kind of, um, advance the, the concepts, advance you have, you have to, there has to be How do you validate that? I, I found for me, if you really have uncommon honesty about um, so the, one of the things I do when not the Genesis past where you don't want to where you begin to evaluate. single sentence and with two questions. Um, and two, am I just sort of, is this a Like, ideally, every single sentence that you else in the universe before I think I think that I don't know but that's what would be my hope And so to do that one is it's like kind of parroting it and then to secondly? said before. And then when you're doing that to hit a bone. You're likely to hit something. parroting something that has been said before. It feels great because you're being authentic, it's a release. It's a, uh, it's a relief. It's, say, uh, that's me, that's, I am, I'm revealing So, so in all ways, it feels very good. um, it is honest. We're career and you said, I wish I did comment that, that there were some things I um, by the culture. And that's what I wished I had Not that I had written more words. I've written more words. I just want to write more words that how do you do that? How do you write the words? way to do that is to write a lot of words. get to the point where we only produce that's the magic bullet. But the for writing great stuff has been to of this is? Yes. I need to write more and Here's the retreat to honesty. I'm not a natural writer. I write reluctantly. editing. That first draft is just a killer for me. Um, I procrastinate, I don't like to do it. And I Because here's the thing is, I I worked with writers and I who love to write, who have to write every day In a, you know, um, in the way that I edit, not one of those people and I don't write fast. And so, um, it's just, uh, an ordeal for That is really great. Way better than writing. Way something down, then I can begin to kind of work And so, I wish I would succeed more often. I don't think. I think that I might have more when it veers to the practical and helpful. as you were talking about editing was pottery. but you're shaping it. Through contraction Are you a computer editor, iPad? to the computer. Um, but I do at one stage, we'll but that's kind of pretty later on and just. something about, um, seeing it in a different form process, I just kind of go back and forth the edit. It's write, edit. I usually like to re read the day before, kind of go through it. dance the whole way. McLuhan, the patron saint of Wired. which I think he would approve of, is that I've which is his whole point. I tried reading It hurts your head. Yeah, it's like, whoa. which is that, um, the medium that on your thoughts than the actual content of um, but Louis Rossetto, who is, you um, was a big fan of McLuhan. this old fashioned idea of the masthead you know, the assignment, the roles, um, he said, on the masthead, which we call him. And I like And this was a joke in some ways, because if you And so I thought, okay, he's going to be our sort of the, the homage to, um, the guy whom I kind of a very wired thing to do at the time. joke because when you talk about a lot of your they are jokes. That's where they, that's where and play. Those are the ideas that you should was that, um, we were making a magazine And so the audience for this magazine was, was, ourselves. So we're going to have these writers um, we had total control and it was total to do. And there was no, at that time, And so, um, so they're having, having part of the mix. And by the way, that particularly in the tech world, most, um, writers, um, target their writing to like the 11th And I told the writers, look, okay, here's, and I am bored by most of what I read. You have to have no idea about in a way that I, that you're mentioned DNA, you do not have to explain it. whatever it is, I'm reading everything, this. This is very embodied feeling to amaze me. Yeah, amaze me. Blow me away. Fire me. That's my first principle to the Is that something that you think whatever I could rather than to write down. And I generally try to write up and by that, I but explaining enough, figuring, you know, my Well, Right. You probably know some of it, there's some things and so, that kind of like, I'm up rather than having to explain everything. career that I just admire so much is you've just and you haven't let yourself deviate from that. right, right. So, So, there's a bit of about. We're gonna talk about it. Which is a kid might make you great as an adult if um, really, really tried through my career not to To really, like, I'm. Unfortunately, my wife there's never been any difference between what off and what I do when I'm working. I mean, There's, I mean, there's nothing. Like one write for Wired about one article a year. something that I don't know what I think about and assignment is me. Basically, being paid to figure and that's the principle reason why I write. I write to find out what I think about it an idea and then I'm going to sit down and know what it is and I attempt to write what I oh my gosh, I have no idea what I'm saying. have you ever seen the series of sketches complicated bowl, gets a little bit more he's left with the essence of the bowl? that is he can't get to the essence of the bowl And so, so I sit down and then I said, I need to it is. And then I can, now I understand it. it's like, well, I, I really don't know what And I go back and forth. And so this is, this is And as I'm writing it. That's when I have the writing. That act of writing it down, trying to like I didn't have the idea before, it's like I'm ways opening up, the writing is opening up this In, uh, hands by, and so if I don't How much do you feel like you're, you're out of you and you're not even in control? there, there, there is a sense in which, where a minute before I started to write. sometimes people have it while they're huh, that was a good thing. I mean, saying it think. So help me square these two it's time to write, you're the reluctant writer. write. Right. So, what creates the impetus and the writing sphere? How does that begin? So, like, and, and, and I think I have a A good new, but potentially important. I'm saying there's something important going signs might be. But often there's new language or it is. And so I'm saying, I'm paying attention I don't know. I don't know much about Um, but I feel that this is going to be and so there's something about it that appeals and I, I'm going to figure this out, figure If I have a take on it, figure it out. And. Then article or whatever it is, or just a blog post. that begins that process of I write something, sense. I don't believe that or whatever. people have, have been saying, Oh, there's, or I just wrote, I need to kind of, so there's with myself in some the idea of a nose. And you have had an amazing Stay hungry, stay foolish, isn't that, doesn't you begin there and you've always had this very good at is injecting yourself into what inspiring idea. So, how has your nose interacted yourself? no one's really asked about that, but I think this or I was attracted to Stuart Brand because the Forrest Gump of our world because he has been almost most of the cultural movements. he wrote an article for Rolling Stone about he was, and it was, there was some machines in were these long hair guys playing Star Wars. It's just decided to hang out at that, um, frontier. published in 94. It was written late 80s on digital encrypted money, because I found those basically. But there wasn't blockchain. And that was so much of a, um, Of a scene that to kind of follow up and, and he eventually wrote you know, finding, identifying, looking for scene um, trying to hang around and seeing if. to write about in order to understand it myself. term that Brian Eno coined. It was his observation that their genius kind of flowered primarily. egging each other on, they were urging, trying to outdo and show off to each other. art was in some ways each other, their peers. Um, works and that even people who were not, were amplified by being part of a, uh, of a There was kind of like, it's like a And part of what you want to do is, um, and so I, I took Brian's idea and I um, While there are scenicists beyond to say, um, and, and what would they be and maybe what And so I looked at things like the, um, Xerox park or the skunk works at Lockheed or camp The outdoor climbing world and outdoor gear was undesirables who are hanging out, climbing all day And so, um, I kind of made a stab at it, but it's that I probably should have followed through. have been very helpful to people like, well, And some of the qualities that seniors share but it's a very permeable, it's much more Where you have to, you're literally an employee more, they do have an inside, but it's a porous differences between the seniors and say a company. rite of passage. How do we curate writers And one of the things I'm getting is the right blend of supportiveness and seniors that's happening right now is YouTube. something they've discovered how to cheap Harbor Freight into something really cool. idea. My friend did that. I'm going to modify and goes back out. And then two days later, the really good YouTubers are watching all And so, but it's kind of invisible and I can talk way under appreciated in terms of the on our culture. If you walk into a there are all the books and here's the range of in the self help astrology, whatever it is. for YouTube. There's no sense of how deep and how outside or easy look at it, it's not like oh my gosh, there's lots of gun magazines. And But, but like, it's, it's like brain surgeons. who are posting or making videos of their and all the other brain surgeons are watching next time and they make a video of and post it. at which this is happening. So there's a it's basically invisible to most people. fans. How has that impacted your work? I mean, that was funded by obsessive, obsessive fans. actually, I didn't learn, excuse me, I just biggest nonfiction book. Uh, funded in, in, in it's a, it's an overwhelmingly obsessive totally extravagant. but that's what I think is great about A Thousand the Kevin Kelly wins and basically surrender to you're doing and wherever you take us, we will theory that I had, and it was something people for years, and then I kind of, And then as soon as I began to write it down, okay, this is, this, this could be useful, but it or patron. There wasn't any of the crowdfunding. And then people like my friend, Jaron Lanier it's not happening. surviving or, or, or living off of a thousand true They had them and they moved there. There's no starting with A Thousand True Fans and going up. one or two people, but it was kind of iffy whether But since then, without a doubt, I mean, I Took that and I done it and it's is right. Largely built on longer a theory. And again, I'll explain later on, Okay. Of, of, you know, the book, I still version that I rewrote for Tim Ferriss. Um, a book about it should be written and I'll the pieces of advice in this little book is, um, Of course, that's a classic Kevin because What a deadline prevents you from doing is there's another piece of advice for young try to work on something or somewhere where where you might have difficulty explaining to your the breakthroughs happen when there's no name. of like you're doing podcasting. It's like, well, it's sort of. And so, you're at the good spot. not aiming for the best, but to be the That takes most of us, including me, most what that is. There may be some prodigies who what it is that they can do better than other journey and that's why most successful people's backtracking, hard rights, uh, dead ends. of figuring out this really good thing and they doing something that only they can do. So go back I learned very early on that the hardest it wasn't the most time consuming, but one of the making the headlines and making the covers. intellectual battles and just, just, just purpose the covers was. So I said, well, we're doing this headlines. And then make the article back. Let's are some of the most ideal, greatest covers we if, you know, we'll say, is this possible? go back from that. That produced means that story assignments. And so, um, for writers, trying to find a writer for it. Sometimes writers we would commission a lot of stories. about commissioning stories is I would have a anybody. And they were, I'm not that interested, you know, whatever. So, that's just normal um, but occasionally There would be, um, I would say, you know, whatever, it was a year need, we need to do this. And I would try to maybe come back a third time. And I'd try to sell okay, I see what's happening here. Um, no one else wants to do Okay. And those are often being my best pieces. there's no... I don't have to worry about I've spent two years trying to give it away. things I'm working on all the time in the hopes to write that one. Man, you really are lazy, huh? to write the things that only I can do. Right. And book is because somebody else... I'm interested in where ideas come from, and in this on your 68th birthday, the original... 68 pieces of advice for your kids So tell me So, um, again, this is sort of an inadvertent book Was in the habit of writing down Mantras that change my behavior an example would be If I know I And then I look for it and I finally find it, the don't put it back where I found it, put Or another piece is, um, when I get an invitation someone for coffee, to, um, you know, appear um, would I do this if it was tomorrow morning even though six months, it's going to be You know, I wish I wasn't doing this. So, so tomorrow morning? That kind of immediacy filter. help me condense that kind of, to help change my of these things took me a long time to kind of And, um, as, And so in our family, with our kids, than giving advice. Like we just weren't in advice um, uh, I just actually sent the book to my son he says, it's kind of weird because even though So, so, but I thought it would be useful to could do what I do, which is kind of like have a began writing these down and I Hobbit thing of giving away presents on my shared to the family and then more than that. and I had more to say than I thought. that it probably applies less to this other books that you should really write the book. Yes, because you're constantly speaking and Yeah And then every single time this is what's in the book Here's the core idea published a year ago. Yeah. No, uh, I mean if I knew I knew now about the book better because now I know what it's about. New Economy, which has been very overlooked. an article. I started on an article and talk. I love that article. I was giving that I wrote the book very, very fast because I'd And so, um, So, that's another way to write then write it. Is that something No. I think, um, so, I'm doing um, the AI chatbots and generative art and I wrote I mean, because I'm still thinking about it. given it. This is the first time I'm ever talking In a couple of years, it might be. But I have what's the word I want, um, um, I have promised myself that I'm not going What does that mean? I think the center of the images, to video. That is the culture. My kids are books, they're watching YouTube, and that is now something that's native to that, and they can have it's not, that's not the native thing, the native In this arena where all the attention is, I we do newsletters, we do some podcasts for a um, you know, I have books and stuff and social where we see a growing audience. Is in YouTube. one thing that I've been thinking a lot about calm for somebody who's so productive, but yes, I am, um, um, able to be very a blog every day for 20 years Yeah. How are those two things existing something that we need to just go at and figure so my daily blog, I was not writing it, it was was writing, but that was not screen publishing, street use. different ones. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, but I have that technique in where I try to thing, I have probably a hundred things that um, what's the word I want, um, because I, I switched to trying to do daily art every switch away from the, um, the text only. And so um, and where I'm hoping to go is to, to, I also have been recording tons and But I'm been really hard, it's been really to be able to do it because every time, I forgetting the, it's like learning a language. like learning a language and I haven't to not even think about it. I don't even think about it, I can way. David McCullough has a line where he to write because writing and painting are both. seeing. Right, right, right. you've done influenced your writing? is to see, and that's why I draw is that you, real. You can't draw that without really, really looking at the thing trying to comprehend it. things and I use that way. It's like if I traveled anywhere near the extent that I have I have. I've been almost everywhere in Asia refute that I've been to more places in Asia than And so, um, and that photography was that kind all day looking and interacting and seeing. you spend so much of your life trying to of the meandering that you were talking about. The connectedness to what you are innately with it. And you have that in spades. that in your 20s, you should spend a good Obviously, not successful or success oriented, unprofitable. Something people are going to mock um, silly and extravagant and dumb and can imagine. And that time and that stuff And the thing that you will go back to, to so I'm a big believer in sabbaticals and Sabbaths that mean to you? Where you are, you have no the pleasure and the, the thing itself. uh, and posted it every day for a year. I'm doing it and posting it only because that book of 50 years of photography. I was doing no economic possible reason for doing it. of the disappearing cultures of You didn't hire McKinsey to do, this was the best, most efficient thing to um, playfulness, generative creativity. That recommend that for the pleasure and not Success part of it because you can do that be later on. It's, it's a weird thing weird paradox of the universe that makes no give. The more you get. Okay. Why? I don't selfish thing you can do is to be selfless. that you have to give away a lot. That's a I mean, most of the major religions of the you can count on it. And so, this is part of us, creating, even if it's just for the most selfish thing you could do. writing is a form of giving at scale. Absolutely. polishing our ideas. And then, many opportunities come to writers. I feel you're kind of cheating us with your life. to do art for yourself because that's only how I mean, my, my goal is to increase learning so that everybody on the planet, born to share their particular genius. to do that. So the little story that I before there was the piano invented or the make some kind of music and, you know, thousands if, um, he wasn't born after this was invented. cinema or Van Gogh before there was oil paints. somewhere today who was born, and she's waiting to be expressed and shared, and so we have a moral those possibilities, and that's what I am on, is To have the chance to express their genius. you've written down before? say a lot of it by now on certain subjects, haven't written about the photography and the But I learned something from my I have observed him for 40 years, in all kinds So he was, invented the Hallworth catalog I think. And I've been around multiple they want to talk about the Hallworth catalog. And in those uncountable number of encounters and repeat himself about the whole of Kellogg. Is that way each time. Wow. And I've never heard him yet when he says it, he'll try to make a new one. And so, part of what I try to do is not to repeat, not to just... Again, to try and reinterpret it cause I think he has a little quirk in his brain I had another friend who was inver I mean, he it was almost like a, a tick. And I think where he's just like not gonna say the same thing a central question that great artists have and So they're always orbiting around something but Yeah, yeah, yeah. Take someone like Rembrandt. The So, that's a central question that he's constantly the answers that he's bringing out are always time trying to hit the next And most great artists kind of have some larger that's why they're kind of a great because think a greatness is kind of over overrated. they're extremely great in certain Always has a corresponding weakness and they're which also exposes this extreme weakness in to pay for greatness. What price have you paid? I'm absolutely not. I'm too calm to be great. balanced and, um, uh, not that extreme. order to be Kevin Kelly? that's such a good question. You're not going couldn't be great, you know, let me kind of define be remembered for maybe a generation or two by. you know, in a generation two, no one will Okay. And so that's, so I'm not in that league going to be remembered for a generation later to be me now, I surrendered that path towards fanatical obsessive about a larger thing. lots of little different things going around. extremity that you need to be great. people who are great, maybe great writers we story inside of their head that they want to be Or what are some of the underlying Sometimes I think it's closer to obsessions maybe might even recognize the cost to their perfectionism or the next thing, or the There might be, but they can't you know, I got to do this. And oftentimes their That was the bargain. We're going to go into the just what it is. I've had the privilege, pleasure, billionaires and, and people that, whose names And their greatness is something that the consequences of that and the price um, and so, um, so yeah, look at that. What's a typical writing So, in the generative phase, it's fairly short. maybe an hour and a half of writing before I get bored. Bored. Or, or to say. Yeah. So, so I'm not, uh, let me, let me Um, um, fiction is a different thing and But fiction is different than. Most of the writing of, I reached the end of what I know or can say at um, it's too muddled and I am just like not the editing thing and improving That's, um, You know, I, I, I, I tend to partly because I kind of feel like I have put the whole thing into the buffer and it's so that needs to kind of a bigger block of time. to have that time? bit of advice, I defined, um, there's a difference have a lot of money, the wealthy have time and people on the planet because I have total And so I work best with deadlines. So I need own deadline? I can set my own deadlines, there's a great book called The Writer's Time. writing his first book. And the major insight from anything, but particularly a book, is infinite. research, writing that could go into your book can't manage the work, you can only manage your basically, I'm not going to write the best book. Okay. So you're going to manage your time. And yeah, I'm going to do the best article I can you know, it's, it's fantastic because I abandoned the book. I mean, that's, And so, um, and so yeah, I can set my own looking forward to that moment when the first work on these blocks of things and try and edit. structure in your writing? All In fact, that's what I kind of realized the primarily structure. That's all we talked about. no, no. Both. But most of the conversation about 95 percent of it was about structure. it to disappear. You want the structure to be so you notice structure when it's absent and you a logical hole, there's you're confused, um, All these things are happening because And when you are kind of smoothly going on and and all these good stuff, that's because of great talks about this. All the time. Trash number four. and that, and it's really hard to do and you it's at all complicated. Great people, writers Um, and that's really what it's about. and most of the feedback I get. structure and most of the feedback that If you have the right structure, the words kind things. It's about structure. Talk to me about you know, enthusiasm worth is worth 25 IQ points. optimism and positivity. But it also Hiring people who have that innate love for around skills. Right. And you can experience at Wired. Okay, so Wired, we had a um, you know, created the, uh, click through Um, and so we were You guys created that? Yes. were on our way to do all kinds of other things if is we were hiring people To develop the invented. So there were no web developers. we hire for attitude, aptitude, enthusiasm, and advice applies as well to interesting hiring like writers and editors. I the conversations, it's like, it was about clear writing comes from clear thinking and be creative and to have ideas and to Those were, were the important things. Talk to so they think they missed the boat of online wrote in 2014, You Are Not Too Late. um, in 20 years from now, certainly 30, but that everybody will be, have. will talk about, does not exist today. So we we aren't going to be talking about, um, even we're going to care about something completely And that's going to be the biggest major thing, And so it's going to be bigger than anything have a chance to be that person inventing it, things. And so, um, so you're not late. looking back, people will say, you know, in you had nothing like AI, AI, this is AI we'll have And so, looking back to now, they're gonna say, I wished that I was alive and working in But hasn't There's nothing new to say? has already been said but nobody was I think a lot about that with my teachers. I had for me. You didn't come up with any of the ideas. a different way. Right, right. Exactly. but there's always new ways to say them and people that we appreciate the writers are doing saying something that's familiar in a familiar yet we're saying in a new way and there's So, so there is, there is, there is always don't know and the genius is really in, consciously did you think about When I began, I didn't really know to the extent that it was important. something that I have changed my mind about as I kind of, a lot of people's aversion to sales and packaging is a type of selling. Putting a Well, you love book covers. Exactly. And I, and an inherent part of creation to being in that Necessary and can be creative. And things, um, but, but, but I have come to um, to sell is to human. have arrived there to understand that that is you have to. Communicate in some way if you're create things and not share it. We can't demand to, to share things. And if we are going to share it is an essential element. And I, um, have even an article that there is, that there's a half another Which is sharing it and marketing it. that when I finish writing the book and there's the galley that I'm now half done. I've done is marketing it. And so, and I will spend probably Wow. And that's what I'm going to sign and that's partly because there's been a change the change is that, I mean, it's really weird um, books, uh, big publishers like that, Cause they sell to bookstores, so they don't thousand true fans. They have no engagement with here's the problem. The problem is people So suddenly they're saying, what do we do? Here's the practical advice to, to authors if they want to know, are you bringing us your And your value to them, because they don't bookstores, that's who they were selling to. to bring the audience. To them as well. And that your own audience, then you got to do the work but they're not really capable of it. So And I have a couple of things that I've been talk about that. Bring it on. So, uh, my book on, I said, um, if, if you have a group that will within a two hour drive from, in the Bay Area, Buy 25 books. Which I thought was more than and I'll, um, come. And so I did that for a month, as many as I could fit into one month full time. like a high school, there was like a church, there was, I mean, there was the whole range of people. going on location, meeting people that I would had people, 25 people read a book and they would got there, which was really great. Then I, on the would do a, um, uh, conference call that wasn't, I think it was like Google meet or something. So I said, if you had nine people purchase a group chat with, with 10 people cause I And so I did that for a month. And then the If you have a podcast, I have a book and we'll to the same thing, which is, um, uh, if you I'll. You can sign up here and I'll be on your I do six to eight a day and um, one after the and I find that the podcast audience is very It's not like radio or TV where you have two they're not your audience anyway. Yeah. They're and the newsletters and that kind of intimate, um, and I sign up for that and I think authors have Talking about your see two interesting things going on where you're this quote where you say you really don't want person. So, something... Yeah. You have a way of reputation, so to speak, that allows you to thread Yeah. Again, you know, fame, like richness, it's you know, if you're in Silicon Valley, what high number. Yeah. And it's the same kind of so I'm not at all famous. I know what fame is. and I mean, literally everybody knows Um, that's the kind of fame that you don't want. dollars. The thing I know about, again, about you right now, you do not want a billion dollars. takes over your life. You have to think about of things. It's just not, it's not desirable it's nice to have some kind of attention, Um, and, and that's, that's, that's Um, but I, you know, The way I handle it about which is an opportunity to meet people or that I would enjoy. And so there's, it's an you know, I like to, people say they're um, I mean, I generally do want to know about it. I have a lot more fame and I sometimes need festivals where there are a lot of my fans, but, well, there's language barriers as well, but, but of a symmetrical contact, but that's what you get. of like, well, I couldn't imagine that You were talking about your writing earlier. When true? Is this me? And on the other hand, every Yeah. Yeah. And those two I may not see as much tension um. I firmly believe that almost none of entirely the trope of the lone genius, origins of science and innovation is And that's true, not just in science And so, um, so I think, um, that, that the things that are very tied to related stuff. And had not done relatively, there was two other And, you know, um, Alexander Graham Only won the patent because Alicia Gray filed So these things are inevitable, including, you suits with JK Rowling and Harry Potter and who were talking about owl messengers That she claims she didn't read, and I believe up from other people. And so, and so in that uh, it's, it's just a tiny step. It's not wholly Um, but we can still honor and respect that And so, um, someone else would but we're still going to reward that with a incent people to try and spend time doing it. coming from the commons and should return And that there should be a little tiny gap more time doing it, but it should be as short as like whatever it is, 99 years plus, this is crazy I think like 20 years or something, okay, that's too, but maybe patents should be even shorter. these ideas are being generated by the commons Something I like to, when I'm talking to Rite I'll ask them, what kind of information are you cultivate an allergy to average. be remarkable, read books. Everybody that I admire Great. And, and by the way, the best education you Well, so you had no TVs in the house? No TVs. And we did a lot of reading to them, um, is still reading ferociously, uh, not on social are important, but you really do want to, to um, good trick, by the way, for reading is to read. okay? That's a great way. So, you have that they're reading and have read. That will get in reading the bestsellers of the past, which for Like, take a random year, like, I don't know, lists. You'll recognize almost like none of were like the best sellers. And so he'll go back different, they're, there's something about them. but they're completely forgotten now. Which is list is that, you know, that's true in movies Oscar movies and which ones win Oscars and which Hmm. has writing been worthy of devoting your life to Magazine. All these books. All these blogs. um, no one's asked me that before, but I writer, there was never a goal in my life. photographer. I began to... Have something to say kind of like, I joke a little bit that my captions more going on here. So for me, I think writing That wasn't enough. I think, as I said, it would thought and think, um, and then I would, and that part of it, of, of sharing what I had learned the feedback, what worked, what didn't work. process of learning how to think and write better Where was I successful or not? And so, for me, helping me think and then two, to accomplish and stuff is to increase the number of options would have a chance to express their genius.