- [Derek] What would happen off the Empire State Building? Could it kill someone walking What does it take to Well, I'm gonna put this to the test with original MythBuster Adam Savage. He's going up in a helicopter No one hasn't heard that story. - When you talk about it, people are like, &quot;Oh yeah, the penny from the Empire State Building.&quot; And when we went to the every ledge below the observation deck is filled with change. I just love the idea of all these people. They're not murderers, but they're like, it's probably not true. They're like throwing thinking it's probably not true. - [Derek] A penny weighs which is about half to a If you ignore air resistance, a penny dropped from the which is 443 meters to the very top, would accelerate to over by the time it hits the ground. That's around half as The MythBusters made contraptions to shoot pennies at each other. - Stephen Colbert shot me in - How did it feel? It's a baseball pitcher - Yeah. - [Derek] But they never Dropping pennies from the height of the onto someone below. And that's what we're - That'd be great watching - [Derek] Yeah, yeah. - I say this thinking it's First one, I'll drop the pennies to see where it's gonna land. You're gonna walk there. I'll throw a second one, that's good for you. - And then you're ready for the full dump. - Yep. (tense music) - I'm going underneath helicopter where Adam Savage is gonna on me. What are we even doing? I know I agreed to do this and I didn't think I'd get hurt, but as I'm walking out I started to think, no one We planned for pennies but the helicopter to support its weight. - In 3, 2, 1. - Oh boy, I hear them landing around me. I start to imagine pennies You can see how tense my body looks. - Ah, one hit my helmet in 3, 2, 1. - Aaaaaa-hahaha-owwww, AAAAaAAh. (slow-motion screaming) - That's really good. In 3, 2, 1. - They feel like tiny little bullets. I feel like I'm gonna Oh boy. Okay, I'm laying down, I'm going for it. - Here we go, doing the whole thing. In 3, 2, 1. (Guitar riff) Unbelievable. There you have it. A penny dropped from the is not gonna hurt. I mean it hurts a little, but not a lot. You'll be alright. - That was great. I saw little dust clouds all around you. - Amazing. - Tell me what it was like down here. - I was terrified. I got out there and the I'm like, maybe we haven't It stung to get hit by but it certainly wasn't fatal. (upbeat music) So why aren't pennies more dangerous? Well, the reason is air resistance. - [David Scott] And I'll and hopefully they'll hit - Take the classic experiment dropped simultaneously on the moon. In the near vacuum of the moon's surface, both objects speed up at the same rate due to the moon's gravity, and they're both still accelerating when they hit the ground at the same time. - [David Scott] How 'bout that? - Repeat the experiment on earth. And of course, the hammer If you watch the feather closely, you'll notice that it For most of its journey, it's moving at a constant speed known as its terminal velocity. Terminal velocity is reached pulling an object down is equal to the force of air In this case, which object, the hammer or the feather, experiences a greater Well, I bet most people because its motion is But the answer is actually the hammer. Air resistance is and the hammer gets going so it experiences the larger but its weight is so much greater that drag is negligible in comparison. And that's why the while the feather reaches and just stays at that speed. It all comes down to the ratio Every object has its the maximum speed it will reach in free fall through still air. And I went indoor skydiving That was so amazing, Objects that have the same size and shape experience the same air resistance. But if one is heavier, here but this one has water added then it has a higher terminal velocity so it doesn't float at the same wind speed as the lighter object. Conversely, some objects are very like a person and a lacrosse ball, and obviously they have but they also experience very different forces of air resistance. And the key thing is that to air resistance is so they have the same terminal velocity, which means they will both If you transported the sky to the stratosphere, they would continue to fall together, but their joint terminal In 2012, Felix Baumgartner 39 kilometers above sea level. After just 40 seconds of free fall, he reached a terminal velocity over 1300 kilometers per hour. It was 25% faster than the speed of sound making him the first person outside of a vehicle. What allowed him to do at that altitude. Air resistance is directly proportional to the density of air And at that altitude, the air is 60 times less As he continued falling the increasing air density and by two and a half he had slowed to 200 kilometers per hour, at which point he opened his parachute. Now rain also falls kilometers, but through the thicker One of the coolest was to see water floating. Poured from a jug, it quickly breaks up into droplets the same size as raindrops from around 0.5 to four And standing there, you can experience what it would be like to fall with raindrops. (soft music) They have a low terminal velocity of just 25 kilometers per hour and that's what the wind speed was set to for this demonstration. And what you can see is that raindrops aren't They are closer to spherical, but a bit flatter on the bottom where they encounter oncoming air. If a raindrop gets too big, it flattens out, caves in in the middle and briefly resembles a little parachute before breaking up into smaller droplets. So raindrops aren't damaging, but it's a different story for hail. (hail hitting the ground) - [Man] I just completely - [Derek] Every year in the US, hail injures around 20 people and since 2000 it's That's because hail can of over 200 kilometers per hour. That's around 10 times the But why is its terminal even though ice itself than liquid water? The main thing is that than a raindrop. Hailstones have been in diameter. Now drag is proportional so it scales with radius squared, whereas weight scales with radius cubed. So the bigger the hailstone, the faster its terminal velocity. It also has more mass, so it carries even more kinetic energy and packs a bigger punch Pennies reach terminal only around 15 meters. You can see in this shot the in the top of the frame is the same as at the bottom of the frame. They aren't speeding up. They've reached terminal velocity. So it wouldn't matter if from 15 meters or 300 it would feel the same because they would be In fact, we didn't take the helicopter all the way up to Empire because that wouldn't have increased the speed of the pennies at all and it would've just - By the end, I'm throwing to account for this secondary air current that's moving between And so the pennies are all the way over and then coming back. - [Derek] One of the reasons is because they flutter This tumbling behavior means a single terminal velocity. - A penny actually has and it oscillates between them. So it's got one on its I've got a wind tunnel that can show you exactly how that works. It's really beautiful. - [Derek] I gotta see that. - Yeah, it's really neat. - Throw to the... - [Derek] Adam built a custom wind tunnel to witness this for himself. So I went to San Francisco - This is literally like my this device. I'm so delighted to fire this up again. - It's like looking at a How old is this? - 19 years old now. - It's old enough to drive - There's people watching this video, you know? - Who weren't alive when - [Derek] Because of the holes this wind tunnel has a from around a hundred kilometers up to 25 kilometers per hour at the top. - This creates a little that popsicle, the tongue and that back pressure is so that the penny spins. - [Derek] If a penny really has two different terminal velocities, it should oscillate up and as a result. - There you go. (sound of air rushing by) - That's amazing to see - I know. The fact that it goes up and down and then comes back up again. - Yeah. - It was just hanging out like that. - When in 2003 I dropped and it went up and down, like I'm still, every single time I tell because I remember that - [Derek] We made a separate that discusses the wind So check it out after this. So the reason pennies aren't dangerous is because their terminal about 80 kilometers per hour. Yeah, it's not gonna hurt you. - That's busted. (both laughing) - Think I'm allowed to say like. - Like old habit. (both laughing) But something more aerodynamic would have a higher terminal velocity. And this has led some to falling from a skyscraper could be lethal. - But supposedly. - Yeah, a pen, a ballpoint pen. - Is as dangerous as a penny - Yeah, yeah, like that's. Is meant to actually be lethal. - It's worth really trying. - [Derek] These pens weigh and they have a smaller - All right, I'm gonna - [Derek] So this will increase but will it be enough? Now, because I'm not I'm not putting my body Instead we'll use a ballistics gel dummy. - Here we go. In 3, 2, 1. Oh, that's very close. Back up again (murmuring) 3, 2, 1. Oh oh, very close, very close. Here we go, 3, 2, 1. Oh, oh, almost. Okay, 3, 2, 1. Oh, almost. 3, 2, 1. Okay, last one. 3, 2, 1. Ah, over. - That might be it - Yeah, we're outta pens (helicopter revving) The second to last drop, we had almost no crosswinds at all. So they dropped perfectly down and kind of hit right below where we were and they were all cattywampus. If the myth was true, I would - [Derek] Right. That's what I would expect to see. And I don't see a single one and I didn't after we dropped 'em all. - Are you gonna call it I? - (laughs) I will, sure. I'll come back outta Pens are not dangerous Ball point pens with their caps off. - [Derek] Narrow metal pens but these plastic ones still relative to their weight a high terminal velocity. One of the curious things is that it depends not only of the object, but also This dependence is captured known as the Drag Coefficient. The Drag Coefficient is all about how smoothly air can flow around an object and without creating vortices. The word bullet comes from So a boulette is a small ball, exactly what the earliest bullets were. But the drag Coefficient so people modified the and eventually, they settled which has a drag coefficient So drag coefficient is the reason a bullet is no longer a boulette. So what would happen from a skyscraper? Not what you'd expect. Instead of falling pointy side down, a bullet would tumble and likely - The thing is that cylinders if given enough chance. - But the object falls in relation to the highest resistance. It ends up finding the highest resistance as the most stable. - Why doesn't it fall - I know. - Bullets, if you let them, they'll fall and make bullet shape holes-- - On their side. A bullet fired straight up is turned into gravitational energy. And at its highest point, which could be up to it stops and then falls back down. At that moment, it's just from a really tall building. As it starts to fall, it will tumble and so it than on the way up. And so it's not gonna get that went into its height, which means that by the it will be much slower than it was shot. Now if the bullet isn't then it poses much greater danger. At the peak of its trajectory, only the vertical component It still maintains its and that combined with the by the grooves inside the gun barrel, keep it moving pointy and forwards. And so as the bullet it speeds up to a significant There are hundreds of cases and killed by celebratory Now this is accidental, but the concept of dropping is almost as old as aircraft. In World War I, these little pieces of metal and they look like nails with to make sure they fall straight. They're called flechettes, which is French for little arrow, but some were up to 15 centimeters long. - That is great. I totally wanna make a (Derek laughing) - And how big were these things? - About the size of a dart, a little heavier than a standard pub dart. And there were like - [Derek] From a military perspective, the advantages were they and they were cheap to They could pierce helmets and some nasty injuries. - They found darts that and his horse. - That's insane. - But I also just love the idea cloth and wood plane just That is like a 10 year old's Then I'm gonna hit him with darts. - Later, the US created similar which were a bit heftier and Vietnam wars. The damage they inflicted and unpredictable, but at least they didn't in the field. And militaries continue to use kinetic projectiles to this day, For example, to make precision Falling objects are also Nearly 700 Americans die each year by being struck by a falling object. These range from loose tiles and bricks to falling construction tools, falling rocks and tree branches, and even icicles. Death by icicle is rare but they were a serious enough concern that in the winter of 2014, streets around New York's were closed due to the danger caused by icicles hanging on the building. So which projectiles are Honestly, a lot of them are. The lower limit of the energy required to fracture a human skull So anything that has kinetic is very likely to kill you. A raindrop at terminal will only deliver 2000th of a Joule. A falling penny has But a baseball and the deliver more than 80 Joules. That is plenty to crack your skull. In 2014, a man was killed when he was hit by a that had fallen 50 stories. And this is just calculating The energy stored in a falling Flechette is not enough to crack your skull, but it can apply a large So yeah, a penny falling from the won't kill you. A pen likely won't either. Anything that weighs a few isn't going to be fatal. But objects that weigh more traveling at terminal velocity (upbeat music) You have made it to which means you like learning stuff. And I wanna tell you one thing that will help you learn even more. Right now for free, you can get started with and the sponsor of this video, Brilliant, by going to brilliant.org/veritasium, link in the description. So why should you try Brilliant? Well, because it allows you to learn a wide range of STEM concepts They have advanced topics like calculus and gravitational physics. But if you need a refresher, they also have fundamentals or logic. There are so many courses to choose from. You know, people sometimes ask why I don't show more equations or work through numerical And the reason is I don't think that's really where video shines. I did my PhD on how to make and I think they're a great way to inspire and excite people about science. But if you actually want and problem solving skills, you need to try things out for yourself. And that's where Brilliant comes in. You can experiment with see the effects of changing parameters, and every step of the way which ensure you understand the concepts. And if you ever get stuck, there's always a helpful and full explanations if you want them. For the first 200 people to sign up, Brilliant are offering 20% just use my link brilliant.org/veritasium. And remember using that same link, you can get started for free. So go check it out. I wanna thank Brilliant and I wanna thank you for watching.