Hello and welcome to No Effort November, a series of videos for the month of November in which it is becoming increasingly obvious the title is a misnomer. Today's video is about lava lamps! Yes, those things that hang out in the set Just doin' their globular thing. Speaking of misnomers, unless the lamp has so shouldn't they be magma lamps? These are important questions. Lava lamps have been a personal object of They are objectively pointless objects, producing little to no usable light, and take literal hours to become operational, especially for larger ones, but once they're going they're downright transfixing and hypnotic. And the way they work is stupidly simple but And that's what we're gonna be talking First, the anatomy of a lava lamp. Ya got the base. Ya got the globe. And ya got a little hat to hide the fact that complete with bottle cap. Inside the base is an incandescent light bulb, and then when you put the globe on the base you end up with And that light bulb has to be incandescent so it's a good thing they Can't exactly put an LED bulb in an oven, But as is the case for many things in life, Clearly there are two substances inside this bottle: a clear one, and a not-clear one. Clearly they don't want to mix, and it's clearly. When the lamp is cold, it forms a big 'ol clearly, this is a solid. That much is clear. Indeed, anyone who's ever owned a lava lamp Except of course those who are both too impatient that say to be patient and then those people are lots of fun. Anyway, a fun, frequent phenomenon found in You'll often find that the clump of wax as the wax nearest to the bulb melts and expands, and once enough has melted it pokes a hole in the top of the dome, and then splooshes outward and upward where it resolidifies once in contact with the still-cold Then it'll look like that for another half-hour so be patient, Greg. You don't always get the Spiky Tower of sometimes you just get the Bloaty Glob of Indigestion, or the Fantastic Flippy Flip. No matter how the wax behaves in the beginning, (and can stay melted), and then you get variously colored jigglies. What a callback! Now here's where our friend physics makes The wax, much like most substances out there, Water does the opposite because it's cheeky, of the mysterious clear liquid. That means it's not exactly gonna float, It'll just be suspended somewhat. But luckily for us, its density - and thus varies a tiny bit with its temperature. And also luckily for us, because the heat we get a temperature gradient across the globe's length with and the coolest parts being at the top (farthest from the lamp). So, we end up with this cyclic behavior where becomes ever-so-slightly buoyant in the mysterious clear liquid thanks to thermal expansion, and then it floats to the top. Once there, it cools a bit since it's far and thus it is no longer buoyant but in fact sinkyant, and then it sinks back to the bottom. And this repeats over and over and over and over and over and over and ov If you've watched a lava lamp for any period you'll know that these globs of wax don't really want to combine with one another. Collisions are frequent but more often than But there needs to be something to force them just end up with a bunch of teeny tiny beads floating So, at the bottom of the globe is a coil of of these globs and force them into one big Thus the lamp can operate continuously. This also keeps the wax in contact with the making it heat faster and keeping things moving. Now, you might be wondering what this heretofore Or for that matter, the wax. Ordinary candles are made of our 'ol friend which melts at fairly low temperatures and so seems like would be a good candidate. But paraffin wax is much less dense than water so if it is paraffin wax, the mysterious clear liquid would have Now there are clear liquids out there in which but many of them are flammable and thus pose a problem. A large quantity of, for example, acetone would probably not get UL approval. Plus, many of these potentially OK liquids and we can't have that. We need it to be separate like oil and water. So, as it turns out, that mysterious clear Which now makes the wax a mysterious translucent For what wax behaves like paraffin but also The answer is: paraffin. OK, so now comes the part of this video where I've done this once before, and here is Yes, the base is... a bucket and the globe is... a wine bottle but this is actually functioning like a real lava lamp. You can look online for home-made lava lamp I mean, sure, they're kid-friendly and most vegetable oil in water isn't at all Eventually I found a recipe that is probably Or at least, what once was - this recipe uses nothing but what can be found in a craft store and a Walmart, but one of the ingredients isn't available for sale in all fifty states any longer.... Yeah. And I'll explain that recipe shortly but with a folding table that I care for almost not-at-all. 'Cause you know, messy. Did that cut work? I hope so. Doesn't matter because this part didn't really go I am one for three here, and I'm fairly But first, for those of you looking at this lamp and wondering where one can find such an uncommon color well you can't! That's because this lamp's goop has been and as you can see it's working quite well. There are some things I'd like to improve The wax is in fact ordinary paraffin wax. I've used raw paraffin from a craft store rather than just melted some white unscented candles down, which I've done because a previous lava lamp attempt with simple candles clouded the water. However, I've discovered that perhaps the The water is ordinary distilled water (tap water would probably be fine, too, for what it's worth), and a dash of dish soap, and kosher salt. Let's start with coloring the wax. What has proven to be the most difficult to recreate aspect of commercial lava lamps is the color. Paraffin, when it melts, is transparent but It might look cool if dyed with candle-making but I'm looking to recreate the translucent look of a real lamp. I found with this one successful wine bottle seemed to work a treat to make it cloudy, This time I tried simple oil paints. I really just want the pigments inside of hopefully dissolve into the paraffin well-enough. I experimented with blue, yellow, and brown (of course) and was quite happy with the result. In the end it still wasn't quite perfect, after some time the paint does settle out towards the bottom of the wax, but with enough movement it gets mixed up at least a bit. I'd like to get my hands on some raw pigments and I may give powder paint a shot in the future. So long as it can dissolve into or be suspended Well mostly, we'll get to that. But anyway... So now that I had a reasonable method of coloring This part is where I think some mishaps occurred We need to increase the density of the paraffin So we need some sort of oil-soluble chemical And it turns out that a somewhat commonly-available What is it? dramatic sting Ah, so here's where I get a little disclaimery. This chemical is, to put it mildly, questionable. It's probably not particularly dangerous sprayed this stuff haphazardly but it is recognized to be a probable carcinogen with and there are also a lot of other anecdotal health effects associated with this chemical's use, so ya know... I wouldn't consider this entirely harmless. Plus, I am not going to be using it for its This video is intended for entertainment purposes only and does not endorse the use of this or any other chemical product in a manner inconsistent with its labeling. Do not try this at home. And, aside from potential health and safety Again, this isn't great stuff. What is it? Why, it's tetrachloroethylene. Fun fact, this was widely used in dry cleaning, Dry cleaning doesn't mean things don't with water. In the dry cleaning industry this is often And the reason why it's environmentally in lava lamps - it's very dense. The specific gravity of this chemical (I'm not gonna keep saying tetrachloroethylene, OK?) is 1.62, meaning that that is 1.62 times Great for my needs, but a problem for soil And stinks, for that matter. This is probably the reason it's been outlawed Newer formulations are various concoctions Now, to be clear, this environmental hazard This stuff evaporates quite quickly, which is why I'm just giving you yet another reason to consider this something that ought not to be played with. But it is exactly the sort of chemical we So here's what I did. First, I consumed the contents of and then to hopefully make into fashionable bucket lamps. Now, I found that the punt of the bottle - that's should be minimal to nonexistent for best results, and we need to add some sort of coil to help the wax reform at and stick to the bottom, just like in a commercial lamp. It doesn't seem like it needs to be rust-proof it will pretty much always be covered in wax, so I used a couple of random springs. I learned from this previous wine bottle lamp as otherwise the wax can form a giant ball that never touches it given enough time. After I was satisfied with the coil, I added I wanted it to be close to operating temp As it was heating, I prepared the color of After emptying the contents of a can of brakleen I then added it to the wax - something like one third the but I was totally guessing everything here. Once it was mixed, and assuming the water I dumped it into the bottle. Here the wax didn't sink so there wasn't I experimented with using syringes to inject and this worked sort of OK but was quite slow and ended up little balls of way too dense wax rapidly sinking In the end I used a larger syringe without Once the bulk of the wax had sunk, it was If the wax is too dense, this isn't a problem by adding salt to it, and in this case it's best to I found that it was best to make a very saline Then I simply added the brine to the bottle Some fine-tuning was of course necessary, well all you need to do is remove some of the liquid This process is a bit finicky though, as you want to deal with overflowing, and I still means you're screwing with the ratio of But in the end it wasn't much of a hassle The idea of making the brine solution really but here's where I ran into problems. The water was starting to cloud and I couldn't It didn't seem like it was the paint - the And simply adding the salt alone shouldn't What's more, the wax seemed to be separating I didn't know what to make of this behavior that the can of brakleen I had used for this wasn't purely It also contained petroleum distillate and Now, I've had these cans for ages - I bought when I first tried this - and I never noticed that this I suspect that the other components were reacting clouding of the water and weird impurities. And perhaps this was the culprit of my earlier - perhaps the wax was never the issue. Regardless, I'm considering the blue and It seemed as though the wax impurities could a sort of crust was appearing on the surface of the molten but a couple of attempts at this were fruitless for the However, the yellow actual lava lamp, despite was spared somehow. After removing the crusty wax, it came back I simply repeated that again, removing whatever tainted wax I could, and changed the water, and now it's remained almost perfectly clear. So that's neat. The yellow lava lamp went a little differently, It started life as a brand-new pink wax with a color combo I've never really cared for despite being on sale forever, and after being warmed up just one time I unceremoniously opened the bottle cap and poured its contents out. A quick sniff test revealed that, for sure, are no longer using tetrachloroethylene in their wax. It smells almost like plasticky flour, or something like nothing like the sweet chemical smell of this stuff. I'm very curious about what this wax is, and I cleaned its coil simply by running some washed out the bottle as best as I could. From there the process was the same, but this and the wax immediately sank. I actually would prefer this to needing to but you do need to be careful because if you go overboard on no amount of salt will get the wax to float. Luckily, though, not much was needed to get The last thing needed to make a decent lava This helps keep the wax from getting stuck it makes the lamp more visually appealing. Without it, the surface tension of the water as just a couple of big blobs. The soap reduces that surface tension and In hindsight, it seems best to add the soap however I began to suspect the soap may have It sorta was, but only because of the wax It seems like the soap was helping to get which is I guess a good thing, but led to clouding. Now, this recipe is far from perfect. For one, it requires and absolutely perfectly sealed bottle. You can still smell the brakleen when it's which means it's slowly seeping out of it and evaporating. With the wax underwater this doesn't matter just stays in the wax, but even if it leached to the bottom where wax would recombine with However, if left open to air, enough of it to screw up the density. Ask me how I know. Also, well, the oil paint seemed promising wasn't great. It seems like the linseed oil base isn't It looked like it was, and perhaps it's but over time the paint is sinking in the wax Making things worse, the coil in this commercial so over time the wax becomes clearer and clearer. I can get the paint to recombine by sort of wax is settled at the bottom, but this is combining well anymore and it's all flecky I may try oil paints once more with the correct it just doesn't work. Now, the most remarkable thing about this process The difference between no movement and good which itself had perhaps a gram of salt in The overall change in specific gravity on the bottle was but that's just the world of lava lamps. They are finely tuned... bottles. Speaking of, some tips and tricks! Some lava lamps misbehave. This one here just loves to get bubbles in One thing you can try to help mitigate this Tech Tangents had success with this for a pesky He also noted that airflow around the lamp which actually makes perfect sense given how fragile this buoyancy balance is. Tiny changes in temperature can make the wax and speeding up the rate at which energy leaves the bottle will greatly affect its behavior. If you want even finer control, you can put I've personally only found these necessary they added dimmers to the lamp bases themselves. I'm not even sure if they still sell those, though They really need something like 85 watts of which isn't exactly a normal bulb size. But, easy enough to make happen with a dimmer! And before I go, I'd like to talk about environmentally problematic goop I've created. It's probably not the best idea to just send I'm gonna melt all this failed wax down because I suspect if exposed to air, eventually all The old mason jars I was using way back when and the remaining wax has become harder with time (the wax and brakleen combo is quite soft as a solid - and what's left now feels like ordinary paraffin). So it seems like eventually it just evaporates, I'll be curious to see how long it takes But if that fails, there's also option B. The boiling point of tetrachloroethylene is 250 degrees fahrenheit, or 121 celsius. That's much lower than the flash point of so I could also just put this in a toaster oven set to 300 degrees and... wait a while. Probably best to put the toaster oven outside But this should cause it to vaporize and enter Its lifetime in the atmosphere is estimated I'm not terribly worried about the impact of this, though I Anyway, thanks for watching. I hope you enjoyed this video about lava lamps I actually have no idea if this recipe was and there's no way I'm gonna remember where I came across "ahem" borrowed from someone back in the day. If there are any chemistry-inclined folks do this, or perhaps might have a guess at please do leave a comment. I'd also love suggestions on how better What I'm leaning more towards is actual and just a bit of the titanium dioxide powder that's in here to achieve translucency. Though, as I said, I want to try powder paint I think the biggest issue with the oil paint isn't actually dissolving into the paraffin, and it appears much denser than the wax. Since the titanium dioxide power seemed to I imagine any fine powder that can remain suspended in the wax will work. I'll report back if there are any significant Toodles! volcanically smooth jazz Literal hours to become operational especially ...appliance bulb, and then when you put the... I did that too soon! [sound of hair drier] This is so exciting! OK, so now comes... eh no I need to.. Cuz its gobedy go do do I know what I'm doing! I know what I'm doing. I should probably mention that there is an that's one of the reasons why I'm doing [spatters as water boils over onto the hot Ooh! Turn that down a bit... This recipe uses nothing but what eh biteh be That's because this lamp's goop has been replaced with my very own, and as you can god that's hot. [laughing] Don't touch the bottom, you fool! Man this video was weird. And the hair! Eugh, why! It looked way better in the experiment shots. Gotta try and replicate that next time.