- I spent 100 days typing on the planet, with its by artificial intelligence to cause me as much pain as possible. Along the way, I learned some of the pitfalls of optimization, and I even got a bit better at typing. However, this was still a terrible idea. (typewriter clacking) I've always wondered why follow the QWERTY layout, rather than something more I had heard that it was to stop old typewriter keys from jamming, but that's not entirely correct. If you could ever point to then this would probably be it. It's called the Printing Telegraph, and it was invented in 1846 by Like with a regular Morse Code Telegraph, it can send long distance But unlike with Morse Code, this one could send entire letters. It's written out A to Zed, which, yeah, sort of does make sense, but is also incredibly In 1855, pianist, David Hughes, took advantage of people's to create this thing. Effectively, it's the House Machine, just folded in half. The black keys are the and the whites, O to Z. Now, the real thing didn't but if it could, then the sentence... (playful music) would sound a bit like that. The next improvement came in 1868, when engineers Sholes, Glidden, and Soule took apart one of these Hughes Machines to use as their foundation The rectangular piano for rounded buttons, and the vowels pushed up to their own row. Symbols were added in, although the letters I and as one and zero. The keys were pushed together and rows staggered to leave In 1870, the trio tried to American Telegraph Works as a way of allowing their operators to transcribe messages rapidly. As an added bonus, the telegram would now American Telegraph loved this design, but asked for a couple of modifications to make things even faster. The letter I, moonlighting was moved next to 8, so that the year 1870 In Morse Code, the letter Zed is often confused with the sequence SE, so those letters were Frequently used characters were pushed to the easy to reach middle of row two. While those used infrequently The fact that you can now spell typewriter using just the second row of a typewriter, was of course, entirely coincidental. Soon, other manufacturers reasoning that if people were familiar with the Sholes layout, then they'd probably want to However, in order to avoid they needed to mix around Purely by accident, someone accidentally that today we know and love. Eventually, an agreement standardized things to QWERTY, and more than 125 years later, it's still being used on everything, from laptops and smart desk candy of r/MechanicalKeyboards. This process replicates what a Hill Climbing Algorithm. We start out with a certain and then you as an innovator, come along and make a small change. If the change results in a worse keyboard, then no one will buy it and your company goes out of business. However, if the change is beneficial, then people will buy it who comes along will make a small change based on your improved keyboard design. Like climbing a rail hill, we only ever take steps toward the top. And at the top of our Unfortunately, one of the problems with this hill climbing approach, is that by making small changes and getting a constantly better solution, sure we might be able to but chances are that there just over there which we can never reach, because to get to that we first have to climb back down. QWERTY isn't just suboptimal, it might also, be actively dangerous. I've got here a sort of heat map with the blue and green and the reds, the least. QWERTY shoves a lot of which means that from their home position, your fingers really have to A lot of the stretching is diagonally and your fingers and hands Your left middle finger is being used way more than the right one. With this in mind, it that keyboards cause nearly half a million injuries Most of these are from repetitive strain, but also from that one guy in Kentucky who attacked his neighbor Not much you can do about attack typists, but given a blank slate, to reduce these injuries? And for that matter, could so egregiously awful just by looking at it? Only one way to find out. To begin we'll need to define what good and bad actually of keyboard design. This is what machine to call an objective function. My first assumption is that it's better if your fingers have less distance to travel. When you are typing out a to their new position adding in a certain amount of distance. My second assumption is that it's really annoying if to multiple keys in a row. For example, typing out of Romeo means that your to move from the O to the stop. I also considered the relative annoyance of using each finger, which how many times each finger could click its home key in a minute. It turns out that my left ring finger is really terrible at this, and we'll see if that affects the optimization results later on. I've scaled each of these factors so that they give an equal and I've scaled that Using these assumptions, alphabetical order is which makes sense given that QWERTY is just alphabetical order with a couple of keys mixed around. Ortholinear, where the keys scores 0.3% better than staggered. Which is actually remarkably small. And because it's so hard to make and get an ortholinear keyboard, I've actually kept with staggered with most of my optimizations. Obviously, I'm not the first person to try optimizing keyboard and the most popular QWERTY alternative, known as Dvorak, based gets a 26% improvement. That's fantastic, but I If you were to build and then line up every single then you form a row to New York City and then around the observable billion, billion times. Rather than getting an unpaid, caffeine addicted PhD student to test out all those different keyboards, another option is to get the with what's called machine learning. Today, I'll be using a specific approach known as simulated annealing, which will hopefully to test out all of In the world of material science, annealing is when we heat up a metal and then slowly cool it back to gradually rearrange low-stress configuration. We can apply this same to slowly rearrange their keys and relieve the stress from our fingers. We start out with a random and numbers and a simulation It'll cool down later on, Based on this current to remove a certain number of let's say that's five. We then shuffle them out and we put them back in. In a completely new and After our shuffle, we compare the new If the new keyboard is then we'll keep it and use it as the basis of our next shuffle. In this way, it's the same as the hill climbing If on the other hand it's of the simulated annealing approach is that there is a chance We tie this probability with the current simulation temperature. Near the start of the simulation, when temperature is high, that we'll keep a worse design. Whereas near the end of the simulation, when things cool down a bit, then the chance of keeping a Looking at this through the as if we explored the base but then only ended up I wrote this out in code and had our objective function type out all the works of Shakespeare. At the start we have big swings in score as we're accepting pretty much even those that are definitely worse. However, over time as we have a more consistent increase. Although, still with the After two days of simulation A keyboard that is 39% better all the works of Shakespeare. My right index finger has as well as other popular characters and my left ring-finger barely has to do anything at all. To get more insights, I also looked at other like every single comment this The top 100 Wikipedia and the script for the &quot;Bee Movie.&quot; This is our YouTube keyboard, Wikipedia and the &quot;Bee Movie.&quot; Like with the Shakespeare keyboard, but unlike with QWERTY, the popular keys are almost Looking at finger frequency, for using my stronger fingers. Of course, the whole is to write actual words. And it's here where we see Frequently used words like &quot;internet&quot; on YouTube, &quot;edited&quot; with Wikipedia, and &quot;honey&quot; in the &quot;Bee Movie,&quot; all see significant improvements. We can also play around with If you're writing a YouTube comment, then chances are you're on a phone and optimizing for a 10 is actually a bit silly. With just the thumbs, this is what our digital Optimizing for XY positions gives us this mess. AI has no respect for my joints. All of this is great, but that learning a new layout sucks. To take this into account, to create what's called a Pareto frontier, which indicates the best keyboard layout for the minimum number of key changes. If you can only make one switch, then E and J gives a full 13% improvement with basically no effort. But if you're a little more daring, then this eight key version to a 31% improvement. So we've got the code and have run through its paces in creating better keyboards. But what if you want to Well, actually updating the I just changed a greater-than However, I wanted to train on something that's a bit more personal than just all the works of Shakespeare. How often do I have to write out that? So instead, I took every single assignment that I've ever submitted for university, three years of email data, and I just tracked my key inputs for two weeks in order to of personal data that has ever been made, and no, you are not getting a copy of it. With a bit of training, we get this, the worst keyboard on the Writing on this thing isn't fun. On the evening of the first and after the first week, my left wrist was actively painful. Mentally too, it was a bit of a challenge, and I could practically feel Now, normally I'm pretty average at typing at 60 words per minute, but the new layout dropped Over time, it did improve, and I could get to about 30 of a hundred days, but I think overall a good analogy At the beginning, these making it really hard to type, but over time, my brain and writing became a bit more natural. There were exactly two benefits First, finding the key you're because all the popular where your fingers aren't. Another benefit is that it really gave my Normally, I prioritize just but now the others were It's been a hundred days but now I type using my entire hand. My left ring-finger still sucks, but just that little bit less. At the end of the day, would I recommend fully No. Learning the remapping Did I leave a copy of the anyway for you to try yourself? Yeah, of course I did. In the meanwhile, I bird-safe version of the which I'm very much looking forward to throwing into the Charles. Perhaps the geese can This has been James Dingley Keep looking up. (light music) Feast, my child!