Today, I'm chatting with Patrick McKenzie. He is as patio11. Most recently he ran VaccinateCA, of lives during COVID. He also writes an Patrick, welcome to the podcast. VaccinateCA has a lot of important lessons fucked up. Before we get into what's In early 2021, we were quite concerned 60 phone calls to try to find a pharmacy that stock and could successfully deliver it to them. person or every caregiver is attempting to contact to find doses of the vaccine. California building a website where you can centralize website. I said, "if you build that website, Karl Yang took up the gauntlet and invited 10 of get in, guys. We're going to open source the tomorrow morning." This is at like 10:00 p.m. at Discord and gave a few pointers on making scaled I ended up becoming the CEO of this initiative. of a bunch of random tech people who make some phone calls, maybe help some It grew a little bit from there. We essentially that was the clearinghouse for vaccine location felt a little weird at the time and continues to. something that people randomly Why wasn't this an initiative by an entity White House or the pharmacies have a website There are so many reasons and a whole One of the issues was that almost this is definitely my responsibility.&quot; Various public health departments, governors' &quot;I have a narrow part to play in this, but someone shots in people's arms. Clearly someone else The ball was dropped comprehensively. No one at one felt it was incentive-compatible right now. "It would have been great if The context was that it was very important delays mattered. You can account for it even look at how much the stock market It was clear it was worth trillions of dollars to It should have been priority #1 that people question. Why did I hear about this problem There's been a lot of controversy after masks or different protocols. Why was not getting called in front of Congress about to arrest the pandemic as fast as possible? in Works in Progress called &quot;The Story the nitty-gritty. Broadly, it's a matter of evil things. Although we did choose to do evil When Obamacare was first debuting, the federal lesson from the Healthcare.gov rollout, which the federal government and political parties came of their signature initiative if &quot;those bleeping As a result, the United States has decided the potential of national annihilation -- behind solving a software problem. That's somebody with an electoral mandate or getting called in Unfortunately, software is eating the world. requires being competent at software. The There are wonderful people in the government speaking on an institutional level, the United as a core responsibility of the government. want to pursue this project. I still don't it isn't more of a news item that this We're memory-holing a lot of things that happened because of political incentives and because we're of the quirky way that American parties It's in no one's real incentive to say, mask issue for a moment.&quot; We told people We were quite confident of that. The entire a month later. No one wants to relitigate that. redlining in the provision of medical care. That pro-redlining does not normally like saying that really consider that a hugely salient issue. Governor Newsom, &quot;you got on TV and said that medical care. Geofencing in that context was the for redlining?&quot; No one has asked Newsom that by the effects of incentives and the effects of way we would ideally like them to play out. Is it that everybody has blood on If you lost a war, you don't just brush it front of Congress and be like, &quot;what happened? we just lost a war. Maybe that didn't happen. conflicts, I don't know how many losers on did that reckoning of &quot;hey, could There was a broad lack of seriousness across many government, in civil society, in the tech industry want to win. A wonderful thing about our country truly important to us, we win outlandishly Yet this was obviously a thing where we should approach it as a problem that we needed to win on. Let's go back to the object level here. Instead and asking whether they have the vaccine, people either some company or the government explained why the government didn't do it. The I want to meditate on the incentives or Walgreens from building this With the federal government and the state is quite complex. There were multiple distinct technological systems, tracking where There were many attempts at various levels of a consultancy to build a magical IT solution that Those largely failed for the usual reasons that Why didn't tech build it? I'm constrained on what than this answer. I will give you part of the of AppAmaGooFaSoft, which is my funny sardonic way in the world, and many other places that the world's least impressive inventory tracking the January 6th events in the United States. rabbit hole. In the immediate wake of the authority very clearly tried to lay that at the tech companies have policy teams, the legible to the government and avoid government their communications teams, PR departments, number one right now, do not get in the newspaper A thing that might not be obvious to most people have teams of people whose job is public health right now. The operating system of the world &quot;hey, we've got this thing&quot; and other people in &quot;it would be really bad right now to have the tech job than the government is. So shut that down.&quot; It absolutely is. The local incentives make sense in that meeting projecting, &quot;I'm going to cause by making this call.&quot; Yet that call was made. say the first is the big tech companies for more reprehensible is the fact that they probably than the government -- and saving tens of thousands and significantly impact their other businesses. play with the scenario. What would happen Congress and explain why they weren't delivered in the supply chain? What would happen if they So many things could happen. the Copenhagen Principle of Culpability. our system will assume, &quot;okay, now you're of the thing you built, but for the totality with the American vaccination effort. You but what did you do about localization? You [name group of people here], don't you? See the A and demographic B? Why haven't you fixed No one in government who is making that moral killing people by doing nothing.&quot; The person for killing people by taking up the burden morally defensible thing, which you will They get hauled in front of Congress. It's not There's one answer where it's because they touched they did it better than the government could You touched the problem so you've any number of sins of omission. Even at the you have not allocated infinite resources to this and embarrassing us will be held against you. thing. Cambridge Analytica is shorthand the news media in New York and the government people, with a budget of approximately $200,000, Rooting the United States presidential election, enormously consequential thing. Good thing that However, people believe very passionately in that very aggressively attempted to clip the wings of There's so much that's great here. to big tech or any of the competent actors. was specifically earmarked for dealing extremely incompetent to the extent that Suppose that public health is not uniquely that the government is supposed to perform. the actual emergency is upon hand. concerned that the people running responses to snuff. Is there some stress test that you to learn whether they're competent or Look at the experience of the last hundred A vastly less wealthy and less technologically involved in the actual fixing of this problem campaigns and other various measures. what has decayed institutionally since then. If of vanilla vaccination campaign, maybe actually did. I'm not positive about that. think people in county health departments did real lives on the margin. I do not think the United 2020 and 2021. We should be very dissatisfied and recognizing that we underperformed by a lot. successful administration of vaccination was not prioritization schedule that we came up with befuddled professional software engineers diagram it out on a whiteboard even if you paid me That was all downstream of the United 1A versus 1B versus 1C was in the first five necessity. Immediately after that it became groups. One of the complexities of this is that not set up to discriminate along the axes of That is not a thing that they have to do a thing that they have to do on like the typical them to do this radically new thing, which is had. If we had had a much simpler tiering of the shots successfully being delivered in For people who are not aware, what was the Oh, goodness. This was different in different United States use the same names for these tiers Tier 1A comes before 1B comes before 1A changed over time on a day-to-day, week-to-week at the same time. It was an entire mess. At the a few others, and people above the age Tier 1B was where we put a few favored Tier 1C was for people who doctors think will but who have not appeared in group 1A or 1B yet. like doctors administering the vaccine. veterinarians. Were veterinarians urgently much. It was because the California Veterinarians me alleging that. They sent a letter out to their we got you guys into 1A. Congrats and go get Tier 1B. School teachers were classified as Tier power in the state of California. They said, no lower than 1B." Probably no one in that meeting teachers who are currently under stay-at-home die if they get COVID.&quot; But we made that choice. of this was not only the misprioritization of according to these tiers resulted in 75-year-olds paperwork required to decide what tier you're in. to administer to 75-year-olds a 57-page web attachments to check for their eligibility. me. We try to remove everything from a webpage If you can make it two to four form fields, You are asking people -- who might be suffering in using computers -- to do something which abilities of a professional software engineer. Why did we want to do that? It was extremely system that we had agreed upon. Why was it system? Because that was society's prioritization. Can we just count off everything? It's but because nobody talks about it. There are all vaccination had side effects, whether the masking should be whether we got vaccines in people's arms Can I jump in with one bit of optimism? We first cut of the vaccine done in two days as a incredible people. We successfully got that have gotten it productionized in far less than do it in one year and not three was enormously We should be a little annoyed that we and other places to get that vaccine prioritized annoyed at the fact that that was a political pessimized for human lives and optimized for You're talking about the fact that the election results or something, right? I strongly believe that was a political There was a particular kind of craziness equity and wokeness. How much was that uniquely system and geolocation/redlining? Basically, wasn't a bunch of cultural craziness, It's difficult to ask that question. We were point to me a year in American history in and had no social issues going on. If people I will say read more history there. strong societal feelings in the wake of George strongly dictated policy? Yes. That's a statement. That is absolutely the case. industry called bike shedding. If you're building comment on what is the flow rate through the if you build a bike shed next to the nuclear the color of the bike shed. So in the meetings a truly stupid amount of human effort devoted It is very difficult for most people in civil someone's arms, to successfully manage a logistics information gathering system, to centralize We aggressively trained the entire American systemic racism. To be clear, it is a problem. The calls all the shots in the U.S. system. Any to information distribution will almost invariably server architecture here and nothing useful The equity strategy dominated discussions the exclusion of operationalizing it via medical is enormously frustrating to me. If you say it people will say, "no, that's not exactly what we they say, "no, this is absolutely what we mean." cared more about proportions rather This was one of those few times when we were physical reality was that there were a scarce system. Some people who urgently needed Everyone was going to get them eventually. dole out favors in prioritization for distribution and injection of the vials as a goal. it was only successfully injecting 25% of object in the history of the world. Rather it into people's arms, it was bickering outraged about this, but we're mostly not. it's so obviously outrageous. To why there isn't more outrage about it. not clear to me that we've learned the for a different emergency. For an isomorphic You mentioned how 100 years ago, with this problem better. What changed? federal government lacked state capacity for or private industry had capacity for this. Then president you're now a colonel in the United sir?&quot; That option was available but not taken. two administrations. Both individually a more enlightened counterfactual administration best person for solving this data problem? Great. Here's an order from the president. Your present your project plan tomorrow.&quot; was actually created by rank amateurs on Discord huge vaccination effort. You could imagine going good at getting packages from A to B. This package during delivery. That's a totally unsolved would say, &quot;we literally do that every day.&quot; saying on the news this would be an unprecedented kept at ultra-low temperatures." These are the We already understand cold chain logistics. say, "oh you guys seem to know what you're doing. here's your colonel uniform in the US military. Interface with this other colonel from Google on on time everytime. If you can't get it there we will find you political cover." That's Granted, the American system is dysfunctional international comparisons in the last couple with vastly different political systems, is vastly better than others. There are journals of journals writing anything but analysis of who do we learn about about the proper functioning of States considered as one hugely complex machine.. asked the Tony Blair Institute. They were the vaccine to the British government. that they should give everybody one dose There were obvious things like this that would do a good job there. No government... it's actually all across the world that have very different infrastructure already in the mix of this. The catchphrase for this was &quot;First Doses First.&quot; many smart people, including the United States. blog posts. In this case, I believe it was Alex This is very obvious and overdetermined. First is objectively the correct policy. system for a while. They talked to medical experts saying you should probably consume calories than not consuming calories. "We checked with they definitely agreed eating beats not eating On one hand, it's a genuine strength of follow some relatively unknown person on the order to stop doing stupid things. We could have That doesn't answer the question of why particular to the late-stage bureaucracy we system or a more authoritarian model that abysmally as well, often making errors worse Patrick. Why didn't any of them get it right? comparison, partly because in 2021 I was for various institutional reasons, having around end-of-day shots. End-of-the-day shots but they're a good quick heuristic for assessing The physical reality of COVID shots is that That single vial goes bad after 12 hours. That's reasons we have to pretend it goes bad after 12 two people then the other shots are on a timer. remaining hours and then get thrown in the trash. rational human being. At the margin, would patient in your queue, who needs it for medical the most preferred patient. Here's a follow-up preferred patient or the trash can? You'd still Israel adopted the policy that if shots were and anything else. They'd literally walk out shot. I need to administer it in the next 15 we had a policy ban on doing that. We said no. To embrace our glorious cause of health equity, was stupid and it was announced by governors A couple of weeks later, reality set in. People out the vaccine is stupid.&quot; The governor &quot;I gave a very confident policy speech a month ago prosecute anyone who gives out end-of-day shots--" Oh man, this is almost a direct quote. You can see this. "I will not just prosecute people. I will impact on your firms and your licenses." when it came down to it, literal guns at doing unauthorized medical care. It's crazy. all the way. The governor did not go out and effing insane. I take that back and apologize." pass out the word. That's no longer the policy, People, say in the regulatory departments of the signals that you are giving them. The "okay, we've been quietly passed the word that we really trust the quiet word here? Do we trust in two weeks and consequence us for something Pharmacies did not cover themselves in but pharmacies institutionally did not. almost all the medications for almost all the up either that position of societal trust or our They decided to throw out the shots and make in California tomorrow. I understand how that decision. There were individual acts of heroism something like this to us when we called them and &quot;Okay, an individual like the one you just now. I would tell that individual to go lies are necessary to get an appointment with inject them rather than verifying the lies basically eff the rules. I swore an oath.&quot; some of these things. I want First of all, 25% of the vaccines that delivered in people's arms? Literally the entire Here's another funny anecdote. I asked &quot;how real do you think that 25% number addition to being incompetent at delivering the So it was probably a bit of an undercount. was like 100 percent or 95 percent or something?&quot; but we got better at counting after the governor We were the 40th state in the nation." bottle. Where's the thing that is going to rescue Let's say you ask someone deep in the bowels of by the end of business today, give us a count has physically in the world?&quot; By the end accurate number for that. It wouldn't be relative to that number being truly millions. please. Where are they physically present Managing inventories of drugs, that's not do that. It did not perceive that I do want to ask you about the actual but this is such an important topic. The world learned the lesson. I'm just going to keep going Here's another question that's related to this. your article and you're saying, "I'm filling out all my time. I'm trying to raise a couple I'm thinking to myself, how is this not as me money that you can find between your couch get the world economy back on track." How is Again, trillions of dollars are on the line. The dollars or more on its COVID response strategy. to Patrick McKenzie's ability to fundraise in Bracketing that, the tech industry what it should have accomplished here. bright spots with regards to the fundraising the total budget of this project was $1.2 million. large relative to the total amount of resources I looked at my email this morning to refresh my welcome to claim credit if they want to claim &quot;hey, I saw you like to tweet about this on except for a 501(c)(3) charity and we urgently I sent that email at 4:30 p.m. California internal emails routed to this person and blah, blah." 9:30 the next morning, he said, pocket. My banker is going to contact you." On the less yay side, tech is not exactly a it was a matter of &quot;oh indicatively, we want that process went on for six weeks. By By May, most people in the professional getting a vaccine for themselves and their loved the vaccination supply problem is pretty much right now." It is solved for the people who are was not solved for even them back in January. But They'd say, &quot;that's a vaccine hesitancy issue.&quot; It is still the case that there are logistical know that you can just Google the vaccine now. the American medical system, in places that can't get transportation, etc. You should continue that we can do what we can around the edges here. own money. I understand that charitable "relative to the other places we can put money American vaccine supply situation as of May for us. Could you do it in another nation?" We have some advantages here. We would not people there. We tried to see if we could help that there's a path to positively impacting the a path to positive impact here." get the money. The last $100K in was My God. to tech to solve this huge society-wide problem. don't understand. Have you gone back to any of maybe I should have just written you a million could have gone back to business.&quot; for fundraising lies with me. I've thought a better. How could I have strategized? but I stopped lighting up new conversations we've got the $2 million that we need to run this for the point at which it doesn't quite stop being the margins. It's not a question until the end There's some of the folks in the broader effective read a lot of stuff that they have written over are the &quot;but for&quot; cause of VaccinateCA. Ask me to me after my piece about it came out. They wrote bigger checks with less consideration to Why didn't you just ask us for money?&quot; I thought I had high quality introductions and a likely already going to fund it. So I didn't this is a true answer, I'm a flawed human day. I was running a very complex operation. those people that have been making a lot of noise would be willing to write a pandemic check." me because I had reached out to people who are pandemic checks. They said, &quot;not in the United up a conversation totally cold with someone now, to scrimp and save and break the piggy bank for she'll go to college folks, no worries. But it's C. We were down to Plan C at that point. It goes back to the Copenhagen interpretation. I should be rigorous about my performance. It's the exact same reason that we shouldn't themselves, and maybe made a mistake. Like come stopping all global economic activity and causing your daughter's college fund. It's so insane. tiny actor who understands that he has unitary of betting boldly on those without a huge bet boldly on things. Not to toot my own horn On the first day, we're getting in Discord we have to sign up for. We have to get hosting, point where you have to put down a credit People were like, "there's a list of things that I'll take this one and you take this one." After I said,"this is not a conversation we should which I've just spun up on the backend. This is $10,000 on anything that accelerates this project. Don't worry about the paperwork right now." hospitals exist and what their phone numbers for free. Or we could buy a commercial database, $2,000." I'm like, "relative to the importance money. Just spend the $2,000 immediately rather We don't think about that in government sacred virtues like, "you must minimize waste. You must maximize for funders' line item support Those sacred virtues conflict with winning. we should choose winning. We should choose human things we are reflecting on is the tremendous PPP loans and other pandemic stimulus things. I'm should be glad there was waste in COVID stimulus. choosing the right margin to focus our efforts on. context on how much money typically goes &quot;oh, $1.4 million. How hard should that be to literally tweeted out, &quot;I'm not going to million seed round,&quot; that's going to get filled. years old who have some GPT wrapper and they don't Not trying to brag folks, just telling misapplied some of the knowledge I have attempted to raise for a for-profit company. be charitable, but I'm going to pitch this to They expect to spend all the money as quickly as addressable market of the company to zero. I'm I told folks pretty confidently in the first $8 million." Then I was actually able to deliver yes, descriptively, if I was asking for a seed wired by tomorrow, I could probably do that. can you literally get $8 million for a blank behind it. If I write on the check, "hey, we States to figure out where the COVID vials On reflection, maybe I shouldn't the blank check company was this thing and we're ethics issues in that, but the ethics issues A recent episode I released was with a former progressing in such a way that you will to protect American national security. I hear government to keep track of vials of COVID For any other emergency -- whether it's AI or the any government response to zero? If your plan by the government, should that be discounted Discounting to zero is the opposite of wisdom here an extremely impressive thing in aggregate. we were capable of. You have to keep both parts People in tech need to become radically To the extent that we have some manifest we can't simply sit out here and gripe to go out and do something about it. was a meeting among tech leaders early in people got in a room and were like, &quot;this is hope someone fixes it&quot; is no longer a realistic It's partly about having higher fidelity models bad at everything.&quot; It is important to understand issues. It's also important when working with the government to its face, &quot;you have manifest way to keep getting invited to the meetings. anything about this Californian response effort it happens. That was a choice made. Am I kept some relationships that we really needed. obviously. Be strategic about that sort of thing. On the government side, one thing we need surrounds software. This is going to be a not. We need to get good at it. We can no routine standard of practice in Washington. States' credit that we have an extremely we shouldn't treat it like the enemy. I'm just the United States has done before. There are We could put a colonel's uniform on somebody. Do I think we have institutionally this? No. When I see after action reports, think are very important for maintaining their either not productive or anti-productive. the true issues. To the extent that they the recommended action is, &quot;I hope someone fixes the default case is that the ball will be dropped. of dread what we call the Bat-Signal. God willing, killing millions of people as long as we live. to get the band back together. Society should The point about griping on a podcast, that's humble to say this for yourself. I do are very few people who would do this. other projects that other people could have you tweeted it out. You saw that there was a quit your job and you did this full-time. The fund was because somebody who had promised Effectively every time we had a verbal green company, the charity... Charities are companies, by called Call the Shots Incorporated. money that was soft committed, before bank on the theory that this accelerates our over other things such as minimizing credit risk. actually end up wiring money at the end of the the last payroll or do run the last payroll and do I said "okay, do run the last payroll." No, it ended up being a donation What the fuck? least important part of the story folks. to convey what I mean to say here. I'm glad you amount of lives. It's hard to plot that on To the extent kudos are deserved by anyone, it's people in the tech industry who would jump into the other board members, the hundreds of who worked on it full-time -- and virtually ceaseless -- for five, six months. were many people doing this as their day jobs. group of people anywhere. It's the collection I'm happy about our individual impact. I'm happy the vaccine at any point before a certain there was an answer. That answer came from us. people with vastly more ability to have caused is not about this little tiny piece of the puzzle. Let's talk about some finance. In addition to what you've been doing over the last year or two called Bits about Money. You explore Here's my first question about this. Crypto at its From the crypto skeptic perspective that you have, represent? Was it just the redistribution To the extent that useful applications didn't come I have two broad perspectives on this. People implicitly like some sort of cost on society. Anytime one engages in attempting to do productive I will stake you with some of society's resources. applied to any other things society needs. I do that is worthy of being staked with this." tokens around, but I mean building infrastructure get back. There's GPUs or ASICs or electricity but went into mining. There's the time of talented building other software products but were instead of billions or hundreds of billions of dollars. or hundreds of billions of dollars? I am very to that question. Crypto fans would not like to articulation of this question from 2017. At the $500 billion. He asked, and I'm paraphrasing, of the unbanked have we actually banked? How many of value doing something which is meaningful?&quot; Crypto folks certainly aren't accountable accountable to Vitalik even though he's clearly accountable to producing positive value in the How many of the unbanked have we truly banked? Once crypto has a responsive answer that is sized billions of dollars resources that we've staked enormously proud of that accomplishment. In some my sword. I will love your initiative. However, can still get in early. You can still get in That is my capsule summary on crypto 14 years who are very good at giving a sales pitch, with at what we have built. This would be a failure Either radically pivot and unfail it or maybe we Here are two potential responses from the crypto help me with the podcast who are around the have a shorts editor in Sri Lanka. I asked them, and they say USDC. Maybe it wouldn't be that much notable that their first answer is a stablecoin. people have a good payment rail. Well they access to 15 years ago, but at the cost of tens or one could have wanted to work on that payment rail have deployed $10 billion is on the best funded to work on like AML and KYC regulation to Why does it have to be compared against It's the sins of commission versus omission Don't judge it by hypothetical rules. Just keep in it by the actual realized utility at the moment Here's the second point. Look at the dot-com dollars were invested in laying out the fiber and the most valuable thing that humanity has built. There was a bubble-like dynamic where many of out this infrastructure weren't paid back. They built. The bubble had served as a Schelling point hundreds of billions of dollars, a trillion if something cool and useful comes out of it Cool. At what point do we get to say that didn't whether someone has been right or not with respect stated that this is the next iteration of the Not just how payments are conducted, but it will Okay, on what day do we compare notes on Does 2030 seem like a reasonable It seems reasonable to me. Can I make "You can still be early. Crypto has created achieved anything near its true potential. Let's check back in 2030, folks. Please tweet crow. I want to eat crow. Crypto people are like, money?" I'm interested in programmable money, My friends who have been trying to sell should totally smash my interests based on what not find crypto intellectually edifying. that have come out of the movement. out of redstone to be intellectually device for people who don't understand how redstone-emulated computer in Minecraft to be the Fairly obviously, that will not work very well. We want some sort of hedge. I think this is buy the capabilities unlocked by crypto, but I do against the government going crazy and KYC/AML departments in the banks start seeing if you've It may seem unlikely, but it's good to have this Given that there's an alternative, if things go Society as a whole can't even count that low in a good hedge against that kind of outcome. people than they expect most people who have is descriptively accurate that the banking system tied to the banking system, which might be all Whether people articulate that in exactly but when you have your mandatory compliance that you are a policy arm of the government. I like warrantless search and seizures of people's I have somewhat complicated thoughts about this. the Bank Secrecy Act in the United States, which government was strictly rate limited in how Maybe because we thought we had very limited would make rational decisions and go after and drug trafficking cartels a year. It would not However, the regulations we wrote and have effectively ask for transaction-level surveillance This is the actual practice. This is not a folks. The actual practice in banks is that as the American intelligence community has. by automated systems. For each alert, they go, worry..." for millions of these alerts every day. this one might actually have been a problem. I'm it with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network." to read that memo. We have an intelligence to write memos that no one ever reads. be useful to law enforcement in the future. debate in the 1980s, I find it extremely unlikely to buy that. Could we perhaps spend tens of To that extent I'm extremely Point. A: This thing factually exists in Point B: In an ideal world, this thing there are very real privacy fears. People who are good at sales have various sales the crypto ecosystem will talk an excellent game you have to choose between being tied into number go up -- or you can choose privacy, they But there are different protocols. privacy if you care more about privacy. I want to riff on what you were saying about the intelligence agency. You have these apparatchiks just analyzing each transaction. As soon as the across each of these millions of queries... We have extremely low state capacity for this successfully administering vaccines. But we do to running the security state. There are pluses that are extremely impressive technologically. technological ducks in order and then passively been producing... The implicit ongoing into the system in 1980. Back then it would look at things in microfiche to try to do this. crypto here. It's worth meditating on the fact that a very smart LLM is going to be looking at intelligent enough to understand the implications, what's the broader activity you're doing here. moment? This is one of the least understood society-level question that is not addressed by misunderstood proxy questions. is a branch of government in a meaningful branch of government? We don't ask that question "should the tech industry be responsible for There was an injunction issued in a which I find oddly aesthetically motivating. The made in the court case -- which the judge accepted front of him -- is that various actors within tech companies and used them as cat's paws to do protected freedoms such as the freedom of speech. unaccountable, hard-to-inspect system of off a lot of people's feeds on Facebook.&quot; But House who was sending out emails like, &quot;when guys? We can't have things like this anymore.&quot; are very good about keeping records and legal system. I was following along as this was than what I understood to be happening. as we were growing up as children, you would government would do. I believe it was the state where citizens can come in and speak their mind probably have a civics class and talk about the something we don't like in a particular town That happened. That is a violation of the against everything in the traditions and laws and Yet it happened. We have not repudiated This is literally written in the decision, which I an individual in a non-governmental organization organizations in doing this. They said something including very real First Amendment concerns, in the government directly, we are outsourcing hired under the auspices of this program.&quot; you have violated The Wire's Stringer Bell's criminal conspiracy. You literally wrote is not that you wrote that down in an email. knowledge of it -- engaged in something that is and evil, to the applause of people in your social they're the good guy in it. If you write that What is your sense of what the I think there will be a limited hangout and does exist an injunction. I would predict What do I know? I'm just a software guy. industry has power because it is good at This is certainly not going to be the last I force you to give me the power that you have decision about how we construct our democracy. Maybe that's the crux here. Your story of in our institutions. It seems fanciful that we KYC/AML. We realized that with LLMs, it's going to to roll that back. We don't like the collusion like this ability to dictate what can get taken and we're going to pass laws and take that back. consensus about the privacy and free speech the solution is that you just start new rails for way. It's not a matter of just changing the KYC declining state capacity we've talked about. for us. I don't accept that the United States accept that. We have to be optimistic about In the tech industry, we know it is not a physical cannot make systems that work. Making systems that We should increase our engagement with government. of that stuff. Also, the Constitution of the Again, incentives rule everything around us. In about being told in no uncertain way by people One thing in the judicial record of other government actors routinely overreached you to censor this and this and this.&quot; The It's important to continue to negotiate for the power merely want. There are some things that outside of our true sweet spot of what we would have to ratchet up the amount of public policy in the tech industry. It probably shouldn't be. people were getting very quiet about the we should have spoken out more and spoken case that the White House was telling Facebook, communication by communication basis. that affected the residents of the United States the operating systems of the world. They were of speech act which we find vexatious and we would we should get on the nightly news and say, &quot;I that says we should stop this everywhere." If you point of a gun. That is what it will take. Say you're right that in 2021, there were going tech companies. Say they publish this email, take down this tweet." Now, Twitter's market the political implications of what Jack Then the solution is that you need tech companies business. Maybe that is a solution, but that's not government to solve problems this way. right? Every business everywhere, including is balancing various risks. The risk One can achieve results in the world government officials. Embarrassing a person risk behavior. It is relatively low risk in That was extremely important for VaccinateCA. to get in trouble for publishing true information state of California? I said, "I have a very high the state of California, that you cannot get in true things." The First Amendment exists. We have to shove, we will shove back and we will win. course that everyone took and does not have a huge industry. Maybe we need to have a certain amount to do something, you've threatened us with taking models that make this an extremely lucrative area that is very important for us to continue to do The comms-trained part of me is saying, to collaborate with stakeholders across balancing the multiple disparate and legitimate civil society and blah, blah, blah. Sometimes that On Tyler's podcast, you said something like, things and Japan does." I'm thinking about your own essay about working You're killing yourself to get that marginal Isn't it better that we have a system where results? We spend the rest of the effort frontier. It's good that we don't have the I don't think these trade off against each other is monocausal. I also don't think culture is a that are achieved in the United States vs. Japan. Japan. The author makes this persuasive argument but it's more true than most well-informed He argues that when people say, &quot;they do this often saying is this. I usually have an things. I understand this incentive. Then that I don't understand. I'm going to call that a real thing in the world. But we reach for There are places in pockets of the United things. Often they discover that surprisingly nice things. You don't necessarily have to spend with 90-hour weeks for the entirety of their Let's choose to have nice things. Let's not be You understand all this financial plumbing. If thing you're looking at that the average newspaper person or a company or a government institution? of banking procedure in a way that few people observable facts to emanate into the world. If then you can have a claim made about a past state thing. If true, that claim will cause metadata in This is actually how a lot Basically the definition of fraud is that you're about the world. The story is not true and you're frauds will allege facts about the physical world. by computers, it gets increasingly sharded be institutions that are not under control of the which will very dispositively answer the question As a reporter, it's important to understand other. It's important to understand the physical then these papers will be filed, then these core job of reporting involves finding people As an example of this, many years ago Mt. Gox but not reported, presumably because the it convenient to have someone call into the questions in the right way. The CEO of Mt. they were not able to make outgoing wires denial of service attack on their bank's That bank was Mizuho. Mizuho was Many people at well-regarded financial reporting exotic and difficult -- and maybe in some ways There are addresses. FedEx will deliver letters fax machines. We love our fax machines. Could &quot;hey, quick question, are you sending wires it quizzically, and say, &quot;in response to your fax we are the second largest bank in Japan. Do you Financial reporting dropped the ball on asking should do that next time. The CEO is giving These are obviously reportable statements. The reality. Maybe chase down the truth value of that. what he says on Twitter and say, &quot;as said by this price feed. But reporting is hard. Be good at it. have an economic incentive to dig to the of financial information from short sellers who That is an ongoing interesting question. Short in being essentially society's best sleuths on of them. I'm not just throwing short sellers I failed to detect SBF's various craziness, available to me as a well-read person on the freaking wallets? Essentially, everybody That's one reason. Short sellers often assume something and have a differentiated point they have to find an instrument and they have to do that. Without being expert on Bitcoin micro the trade in size. Mt. Gox was insolvent. You people were definitely trying to do. proposals from people around 2012. They said, understand international banking and you live in to me in America and you can take a percentage?&quot; They said, &quot;there's this company and I've but they can't send dollars.&quot; Is that because &quot;no, it's a Japanese banking thing.&quot; Okay, at sending wires. They said, &quot;no, it's You would not be having this conversation with launderer. I will not be your money launderer. earlier that banks have the capacity where every notable enough, they write a report about it. How to move around, say seven-figure amounts of money? stretchy. There's a spectrum of people. Much like fraud, there's a spectrum of sophistication in the most sophisticated money launderer in history, wherever SBF is staying. This is a disagreement I have with a lot of not just SBF. People identify him uniquely. They fault here. There was an entire power structure out how power worked in the United States Then it blew up. Until then, my goodness. They're called money transmission licenses state-by-state basis. They got 50 regulators objective indicia of them being very good Wasn't it more about getting people to than figuring out how to structure the It's not merely a matter of getting them to SBF interviews where he's telling the founding reason why he got this opportunity to do United States is because he was able to do He doesn't say this in these many words. I will as one of the pieces to run this arb and then he don't think people really listened to what he was on Bloomberg, &quot;if I was a compliance person, the world. This looks like it's obviously money Interestingly, Michael Lewis retells the story in Japan. Some people who were involved say they would pull on more threads there. There's Anyhow, how sophisticated do you have to be to that. That is a bar for sophistication. caught for laundering tens of billions of laundering tens of billions of dollars around. of the parts of the corporate shell game of dollars of cash around the financial system. behalf of Tether. It moved it from wherever moment, I think it's mostly at Cantor Fitzgerald. eat a lot of popcorn when it does. ways to launder money. Let's say I establish estate in New York City. I rent that real estate that. That money looks clean because there is an is renting this real estate that really exists, to The money that I put into the system to buy just going to wire it to a lawyer. The lawyer is &quot;I don't know where it came from. I don't estate transaction. What do you want from me?&quot; original money was the proceeds of crime. In transaction goes down at those scales. Often a at operating the economy, plus willingness to do I would be really good at money laundering. It's fascinating intellectually. Previous probably explicitly anti-endorse We are reasonably confident that I would be much wealthier if I was. that people tend to undercharge for the identified somebody who actually does charge Psychologically, what do they Interestingly, this is one of those places descriptive in some ways. It gets contentious examples. There are some cultures in the world pro-capitalist, pro-mercantilist ethos. They have money and accumulating resources as a goal. ingrained skepticism about earning money and Those cultures generate people who have When you impact people with different negotiation organization like Google for example, Is it Amy Chua who wrote a book about are equal in the eyes of God and hopefully in make the same decisions with regards to the disparity in outcomes. That is one tiny part don't necessarily endorse every word in every book Another thing is that there's a certain got into tech. It is over-advanced that the tech industry are caused by the nerd vs. heavily over-advanced. What's the amount came up feeling we were largely getting beaten etc. Then we carry those issues into work their way out of it quickly. Some do not. institutions like Stanford and hear from... I to Stanford. I certainly didn't go there. Let's &quot;yo bro, this is the way the world works. You in your discussion with Google. I've talked to so that do make a whole lot more money.&quot; You're get that talk from their elder fraternity and don't have an elder fraternity brother. I'd probably done professionally was writing a It's subtitled, &quot;Make More Money, Be More Valued.&quot; had some of the issues I had when I was young That's not a moral failing. You have no less has to the marginal dollar. Go get it. Then you 500,000 people a year read that piece and in Gmail about who has written and said "I result of reading this piece." I used to keep a after it had ticked into the eight figures and Eight figures? assume that 500,000 people read it per year. Some don't write me to say, &quot;hey, I took the advice, economic impact is probably larger than that. of that spreadsheet where it's like, &quot;darn We've got these numbers and there's only a few There seem to be fewer people in their twenties maybe 10 to 20 years ago. You've been in Is it because the nature of software the 20 year olds today are just less good? the course of 20 years in the software industry. and talented. One partial explanation is that the existing incumbents -- institutions and personal resources -- do not immediately grab all To the extent that tech is no longer terra less resourced and younger to rise to the I'm not at the heights of prominence in tech. When some other guests on this podcast run companies. cards for elementary school teachers while That's my dominant hypothesis. There are that I think are negative. Some products that for the happiness or productivity of people I continue to be bullish about the youth. will accomplish things in their lives. the kids these days, they're just bad kids.&quot; sort of wireheading. Somebody like you were Will they just wirehead themselves to that instead should we see this in the productivity numbers? numbers. Generally, I do know that Steam keeps a year. Knock on wood, I've accomplished what was my Steam counter up to? World of Warcraft was at least 1000 hours for me. 20 years, I've probably played video games for of professional effort, if one thinks that it Do you? Include every single young guy who's a their productive time is going to video games I worry at least a little bit about it with an executive assistant. One of the first will you friend me on Steam so that I can see if you're not making your priorities happen, we That's really good advice, given that I relative to my true preferences. Go, Sammy, go. honest conversation tonight? inserting those words into his mouth. Factorio is a wonderful game. I actually think video games do. That's an entirely different Have you read Byrne's piece on Yes. I love many things Byrne writes. point of view on this one. I hope to On the one hand I loved it. The Factorio best video game I ever played. Yet I spent 750 on sabbatical and recharging from six also running the United States vaccine location at relevant margins are you maximizing worried about that. Now my EA checks on When I was young and a World of Warcraft raid it was a substitute advancement ladder for around central Japan, gave me no scope of control I could make decisions right now. I could that ability. I don't see myself as being the If I can't be satisfied with my nine-to-five job at the very least I can do this. Make sure don't stand in the fire. Come on, team leaders, with the resist gear before they get there. resources. We need to have a better DKP system. all other places where intellectual effort comes more sophisticated than people give them I told people my sole prior leadership experience That's true. I don't want to rat hole on the that are very definitely downstream of the guilds specifically. There were multiple we are running the raid guild playbook right now." your life. Choose to do something with your amount of video games, then play a With respect to individual people, I've struggled people struggle with under-diagnosed, get into a self-destructive spiral measured to depression and other factors, you aren't You use video games as an escape from that. It's There are many poisons available. You pick of effort you put into the poison causes you to So you get worse results at the true thing. spirals is something that we as a society Speaking of Byrne, I noticed that many of my Byrne, Matt Levine. Is there a reason why There are many good writers in the world, engineer and has written about some things an engineering degree where I can appreciate the full totality of why, for instance, uranium work with. He has some excellent writing on The broader question is, why does finance have just for current bloggers, but finance histories thinking of those by Bethany McLean and so forth. or is there some other reason? working in a water treatment plant, I'd probably I enjoy writing. I know enough about myself to water treatment plant -- something I read about I'd write about it if I was captivated by it. Finance and the tech industry have for a intelligence into money. Many good writers are good writers. It's a skill that more intelligent system that tends to allocate many of the where they become experts, I'd expect a lot Good writing is good thinking. That's a Paul If I remember correctly, you went to Japan the demand for programmers alone would diminish weren't the only one who thought this way. the same thing. The Wall Street Journal a 19-year-old who knew nothing about anything. might have gotten wrong about the software made? How would we characterize that? that had no basis in fact. I believed The future engineers would be hired in places States. The implication was that there would I made a spreadsheet with the languages my number of Americans who spoke them, the amount software sold there, and so on. I multiplied descending. This was LARPing rigor, but it the time. The meta discussion is: don't But what would that look like in this Ultimately, I'm happy with the decision I made I'm happy because of other life factors. Working parts. But on a mental level, this was an early systemically viable reasoning patterns more. correctly -- and it was a pivotal moment for me -- Americans would be hired at software companies. software industry? Maybe I didn't have enough But I can confidently predict some things now. break as older engineers age out and no one is hire people every year. Hiring freezes are That's as close to a law of physics as one can laws of physics have been suspended and will How would I learn the law of physics? I didn't which is partly why I was getting my I was at a research university in the US. If could have found someone who knew someone in Couldn't you use that same logic to say that journalists will have to be replaced by new that many people to study journalism. It major in journalism and pursue that as a career. the total size of the pie is decreasing due to thesis wasn't simply that the size of the pie but more so that companies will maximize for I see. You've emphasized that founders main theme of your blog. They should do What do they tend to over-optimize on? earlier in my career and really thought that I'd probably tell a founder a bit about marketing unless that was explicitly why they brought me in. house and chasing status are two well-known playing the role of a successful CEO before level of success. The fundamental nature of you is not an indication of what you have accomplishments. You need to rigorously pursue There are many ways to pursue this. make something excellent, get more people to an important strain of Silicon Valley culture. worldwide, including to me in central Japan. Those games are less important but very like attending conferences, meeting interesting at the best parties does not, at most margins, doesn't write functioning code. Do the things that &quot;I'm a distraction from everything that real work but are not. Don't do the things Let's go back to VaccinateCA and close we got a good answer but I think it's important. a new one replacing the current one. Looking what would you do to create accountability and fire the right people, but beyond that, there's How do you make sure we're ready for them? that would be salubrious for broader civil postmortems. We talked earlier about who to blame amount of blame performs useful societal purposes. The magic word in Washington is accountability. Accountability terrifies people. This causes happened, mistakes made, and opportunities missed. a more productive way involves first getting a It's less important to focus on which official was What did we do? How did our actions lead to what could we have done better? How do we inject this happens, we don't repeat the mistakes? their job, though hopefully not often. There are many aspects we should postmortem several thousand hours to go over all of them. let's ask all involved parties to write down the recording dates, times, and actions taken. We want the most important aspects. That is step one. Final question, what are I don't exactly know what my next big professional here, writing Bits about Money and being between start a software company or raise a small VC Currently, I'm focusing on family-oriented the United States and we're going through heavily on my career over the past to help with this adjustment and then figure Excellent. Patrick, thanks so Thanks very much for having me.