Stocking up on and hitting the drive-thru seemed like modern institutions. But the world's love is a tale as old as time. A lot of what would become began in medieval Europe where cravings with some But nights weren't exactly through the drive-thru on their way to the castle. Instead, medieval to travelers and the poor, Today in Weird History, at what junk food was But before we get started, to the Weird History channel. And while you're there, leave other historical food topics you OK. Time to get medieval on London is a city known and for being a hub as well as being the place hatched in Big Ben by owls. During the middle a center of trade and commerce. But poverty throughout So for many Londoners, it was possible, to cook at home. Cooking equipment and fuel On top of that, the into tenement housing that often let alone a hearth. Without a hearth, an unsalable mountain to fill your home with smoke dwellings to the ground. So people visited the old timey equivalent Cook shops sprouted to serve the community's These 24-hour cook to tourists and residents alike. They were open that changed depending But instead of driving the cook shops offered more of Customers would to purchase their Others would buy and then take it home to eat a plate of takeout is not always Cook shops weren't One city street in Bristol Bristol's cook shops offered and fish, and may have to subscribe to the adage, They'd have their and would strategically to cook so that the smell to grab a quick bite. Some shops served sweets. Others were known for But the most popular the shops that sold meat pies. Those delicious meat-based kind of like a but without the fries and Coke. Speaking of burgers. [MUSIC PLAYING] Everyone loves a Big Mac. There's just something most of the basic food and then horking them down through airport security. Mm. So it makes sense that version of the drive-in These savory little hot pockets the mark of a blockbuster But Mrs. Lovett's signature dish As it turns out, could be a real problem According to a 13th cooks would use diseased and serve them to customers It wasn't uncommon to warm up days old spoiled Poverty was extremely wasn't exactly on So the decision whether to heap cart or reheat it and was often disturbingly easy. Probably like it is today, if When they weren't shops often which earned some A saying from the time but the devil sends the cooks. The shift manager used to say the same thing. [MUSIC PLAYING] Bread was one of the most common period, but most households So they had to buy And while selling bakers could do much more For example, if someone brought they could have the baker The idea caught on, London passed a law in from charging more than a their own meat from home. Meanwhile, you bring your own and they ban you for life. It wasn't like it was a cow. I'm not sure what Another modern came about around this Modern Europeans by serving soup and stews which they called trenchers. The practice helped and was probably on the need for dishes. But bread bowls weren't the of the middle ages. In addition to being a staple wandering, soft incredibly popular Three simple to create the twisted treat. Just mix a little bit of water, And you've got yourself a approved by the Catholic church. That's right. During fasting periods like eating certain animal products, as a substitute. Monks would hand them out to while others would Outside of the church, of luck and prosperity. And what's not to feel lucky on a handmade pretzel? Nothing completes a fast food Because if you're you might as well And while drinking alcohol medieval Europeans Possibly because they were Not even lent had any thirst for memory or Part of observing lent So folks would fill that with other things. Fish became the alternative Others turned to booze. While it provided temporary the practice of staying didn't sit well with some In 1400, the Benedictine had strong words for anyone He scolded excessive in the face of the lent was meant to symbolize. And opine that people lent than they did during Of course, he to eat some of the that commoners were forced to a dish that was invented as a If he had, he might have been right beside them. Making a mock egg Just take a few fill them with a mixture and crunchy almonds. Then, dye it yellow and choke Mm, tasty? Now pass the beer, please. Sugar is one of those things But during the was pretty hard to out of reach of the masses. Only those who could afford regularly consumed it. So, rather than people would flock for treats sweetened with honey. A fritter recipe from the Anonimo Veneziano, calls and honey. An earlier, more was just fried dough and topped with a Gingerbread, for satisfying the also used honey incorporating giving it an inimitable But when you're in the at a cholesterol spike, like the funnel cake. A delicious combo of fried The mother of all carnival in medieval times. Funnel cakes began as Because of the sugary topping, Since ingredients like people would often which is how we got of milk, which is just fried, Otherwise known as a when you want to punish them. Waffles, as we know them, also The original waffles date known as Obelios. They were flat cakes And they weren't sweet, that arguably contributed Later, the Catholic flour waffle wafers, depicted biblical scenes. But it wasn't until a more recognizable version cinnamon, honey, and cream And, in the 15th invented the famous that transformed waffles and whipped cream delivery connoisseurs centuries later. Initially, waffles were but would eventually become staple we fling into Thanks to the discovery became affordable and by the 16th century. London even opened prompting a trend that continues today, adding sugar Sugar quickly replaced People began and syrups, and even started their meats. If you cover a plate of fish and eventually, it tastes which was a welcome respite accustomed to eating Sugary concoctions during the period, including with berries, fruit, a sweet fruit-filled Cuskynoles is just a good name. You can picture that next to a mascot with This love of sweetness to such a degree that be traced back to this time. Derived from the French to clear the table, using it to mean last course The English later to refer to the final that people ate The Cuskynoles kid So what do you think? Would you be willing to try some Let us know in the And, while you're at it, check from our Weird History.