Bumps in the night! Just the sounds of your house settling, right? But what if they're not? What if those bumps in the night are coming Today we take a look into the supernatural, Greatest Mysteries, . The Most Terrifying As technology evolves, so do our ghost stories, of cyberspace. First reported in 2014, an Australian man concerning a dead girlfriend's Facebook account. Two years prior, Reddit user Nathan's girlfriend car crash. On September 4th, 2013, he suddenly received account, saying simply "hello". Nathan received no reply when asking who was later Emily replied once more with "hello". Per Nathan, only he and Emily's mother had assumed it may have been her. Her mother denied logging into the account, Nathan eventually realized that the messages chats, and so he assumed that it was nothing behalf. Then one day Nathan received a notification- The notifications continued coming in, with of the photo. Eventually Emily even started leaving messages of previous messages or posts from when she One day though, Emily used her first original In a following message, she used her first That message terrified Nathan, as he explained Emily, and she was severed in a diagonal line thigh, with one of her legs found under the The cyberhaunting didn't stop there, with a photo- a photo of Nathan taken from behind his computer. From here Nathan's story takes a bizarre twist, the photo post. Users derided the entire story as a made-up users began to dig into the date and general and discovered a story about a car crash that there was no mention of an "Emily" listed What there was however, was a "Nathan" Elaborate and expertly crafted hoax, or the We'll let you decide as we move on to our 'The Entity' is, according to Martin Scorsese, and based on the 1974 true story of Doris A single mother of four, Doris Bither overheard Kerry Gaynor discussing paranormal activity which she believed was haunted. After an initial interview, Doris revealed times by three violent entities- with her to have his arm broken after being thrown Initially skeptical of the claims, Dr. Taff them a multitude of bruises across her thighs Neighbors backed up the claims of violent had often seen apparitions moving around inside Doris' children had seen them so often that prominent, and evil one- 'Mr. Whose-It'. During the investigation, Doris was asked do by yelling and cursing at them- at which corner of the room and the torso of an unidentified High speed photography did not capture the of bright light directly over Doris' head The presence of the investigators seemed to eldest son, Brian, would take their rage out them around the house. In the end, the investigation into Doris Bither's from some unexplained light phenomenon on While these might be explained away as film timing during the alleged manifestations and the sightings make them a little hard to easily The physical evidence on Doris' body however extensive bruising after each physical attack. Thirty years after the haunting, Brian Bither maintain that their mother had indeed been even physically assaulted by them. If just another ghost hoax, this family is Next is the inspiration for another terrifying famous in the 2016 horror film, The Conjuring In 1977, Peggy Hodgson, single mother of four, bedroom one night. Rushing into the room to tell her daughters the children huddled in a corner and crying The girls shouted that a dresser had begun as if barricading the children inside. Skeptical, Peggy dismissed the story until direction of the door. When Peggy went to move the dresser back, The terrified family fled the house, asking Upon arriving, once police officer testified by itself. With paranormal activity intensifying over Daily Mirror and invited them to send a reporter Sitting with the family for hours, the home got ready to leave, at which point he was the mark of which stayed with him for days. The Daily Mirror immediately called the Society Maurice Grosse to the home to begin to catalog During his stay, Grosse documented over 2,000 furniture tipping over, cups filling with of objects. It was at this time that the haunting intensified, through one of the young girls. Entering a trance-like state, she would start herself as Bill Wilkens. Researchers would go on to record several voice can be heard responding to some of their The paranormal activity would continue for famous- or infamous, depending on your point Ed and Lorraine Warren. The two would walk away convinced of the authenticity did conclude that a small amount of the phenomenon Interviewed thirty years after the infamous would occasionally fake some of the events which they apparently did. Janet still maintains however that the bulk and the Society for Psychical Research would Perhaps most chilling of all however was the in that same home, and died of respiratory So, do you believe in ghosts? Have you ever seen one? Tell us about your terrifying ghost stories other weird, otherworldly, and paranormal Greatest Mysteries series! Also, be sure to check out our other video Thanks for watching, and, as always, don't See you next time!