- This right here, this Bash script, is going to make you rich. Well, not really. But, using random and some simple math, it's gonna tell you when you're So, let's level up our Bash skills. Get your coffee ready, time to get rich. Not really though. We're not getting rich. Just, just keep watching. (upbeat music) Okay, here we go. The first thing we're gonna do is flex our already amazing Bash skills by completing this challenge. If you can do this, you're awesome. If you can't, that's okay, just go back and watch Number one, in your lab named getrichquick.sh, and Make it executable. Number two, create these variables And finally, number three, I want you to echo it back out like this; &quot;Hello, name. You are age years old.&quot; Pause the video. Give it a try. Go. Now, if you did this by And again, if you didn't, that's cool too. But anyways, I'm gonna walk actually really, really fast. And if you're confused, just go back and watch It'll all be cleared up. I hope. Anyways, let's keep going. Okay, the first thing I'm gonna do is go out to linode.com/networkchuck. Linode is a sponsor of this video, and they are my favorite place to quickly spin up a Not only are they fast, but it's only gonna cost No joke. That's all it's gonna cost. Seriously, let me show you. You can follow along, but so feel free to pause and rewind. Actually, let's see Create, linode, images, plan, shared, one gig, name it, Whew. (Chuck laughing) That was fast. How fast did I do that? Time So, within moments this ready to go, baked. But while we're waiting, let me tell you a bit First, as you probably saw before, I have like a bajillion VMs in the cloud. It's how I run my business. And if you've been watching me for a bit, it's the place where I run Now look here. It is done. It's running. Which means I'm now being But check this out. When I'm done having fun, all you gotta do is go over here to the little context Yeah, I wanna delete it. Goodbye. A super fast Linux lab in the cloud and it costs me a penny. And by the way, if you're new to Linode, you get $100 credit for 60 days for free. So if you heard free Go ahead and do it. Link Anyways, I need to I'm not gonna make you wait. Okay. My lab is done baking once more. I'm gonna copy this command and launch command prompt in Windows, or Terminal in Mac and Linux, and paste that command. Accept all fingerprints. Step one, make a Bash script and all set up and pretty. Let's go. Nano getrichquick.sh. Shebang! Did I scare you? And then control X, Y, and Enter to save. And then to make it executable, chmod +x, and the name of our script. Let's verify real quick; ls -l. There's that x. There it is. Got it. (Chuck slurping) Time for two. I'll jump back in my First I'll ask for their name. Echo &quot;What is your name?&quot; And then I'll store that data Then I'll say echo, &quot;How old are you?&quot; And I'll store that Task two, done. And now for task three, the grand finale. Echo &quot;Hello name, you are age years old.&quot; And that's it. Control X, Y, Enter to save, ./getrichquick.sh. What's my name? Chuck. How old are you? 32. Hello Chuck, you are 32 (Chuck slurping) Okay, now let's jump back into our script. Nano. Getrichquick.sh. Right here, dude, we for our script today, so that's awesome. But here's what we're doing next. Our task, our goal here, is to figure out when you and I are gonna Did I spell that right? I feel like I did. Let me know if I did. And I bet you didn't know, we can actually write a Bash Yeah, check it out. Watch this. Now a couple of things, becoming a millionaire Also hard work. But for our example, it's So, new concept time. Allow me to introduce you Random is a variable except it's a built in variable. It's a variable that You don't have to set it. But what is it? What does it do? Let me show you. Come on, let's go. Let's get out of our script, Control + X, and all I want you to do right now is type in echo in the command line, and then $random and hit Enter. What just happened? Do it again. Huh? Do it again. Do it again. And again. And What are we doin' here? You may have noticed that or pseudo randomly generate a number, between 0 and 32,767. And notice how the number was different every time Super cool. And we're gonna use that, that randomness, to help us calculate when we're Super rich with golden beards It's gonna be awesome. But seriously, here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna take a whatever it's gonna be, and we're gonna add that And that will tell us when you're gonna become a millionaire. Foolproof. You can take Please let it be zero. Come on. You know what I mean. Anyways. But before we do that, that's coming up. And check the time stamp if But before we do that, I wanna talk about what Well, we already mentioned that it's a built in variable in Linux. Pre baked. Ready to eat. But what I wanna point out is that it's not the only one out there. There's a bunch. In fact, do you remember one that we used in the first episode? I know it was a long time ago, but do you remember what it was? Let's try it out real quick. Let's try it out real quick. Type in echo, and then This built in variable will always equal the current shell we are currently using. Which is Bash, of course it is. Which makes you wonder, Yes, there are. I made a video about it somewhere up here, go check it out. What the shell? Sorry. That just felt Let's try some other ones. Echo $user, your current user account. Echo $PWD, where you are, Echo $hostname, your local host name, which is the name of your Anyways. And we can actually Let's try it out real quick. I want you to echo. Whoa, I just went British or Australian. My kid's been watching I want you to echo a bunch of these random variables in your script. Just do it. Just blast Unpause. Let's try it out real quick. By the way, I cannot do I've tried so hard. I can't do it. Nano getrichquick.sh, just down here. Echo PWD, and we'll do shell, Just all of them in one string. Save it, run our script. Bernard. I'm 94. And it just threw up all those variables, those built in variables that they're just set by default in Linux. Really cool. Really handy. You will use 'em in the future. You will. So just remember it. Now I know you're itching but before we do that, you have to know some of this So just calm down, take (Chuck slurping) One really cool thing I wanna show you is that you can actually create You can add your own pre baked variables, like check this out. So I'm gonna create a variable named. I just spit water on my. I'm gonna create a variable Then I'll have it equal a string, Notice we're setting it the Hit Enter and we're done. So if we echo $twitter, Elon Musk. Go ahead and try it for a Just do it. Pause the video. Unpause. Okay. Just, ah, I keep hittin' my elbow. Now, this is super cool. We But it's not really a big, He's still just kinda chillin'. He's not committed to the system here. You see, because right now we in our script, it just won't work. What, you don't believe me? We'll get back into our script. Nano getrichquick. Just below our last echo, Save it, get outta there, Iron Man. 65. Notice there's nothing where He's not there. Why? Well, because as it stands right now, this variable that we set cannot And yes, our scripts are child processes. They are your children. You're a dad. You're a So yeah, this is kinda stupid, it stinks, but we can change it. All we gotta do is make and convert him into a full Super easy to do by the It'll be one command, type Just like that. It Like, Chuck, are you sure? Is that enough? Yeah, that's enough. Hit Now if I run my script and go through the whole charade here. Bam, you see that? My script My child can now use that variable. So at this point we created that any script can use, So now I know what you're let's figure out when we're Hold on. Not yet. Coffee break. There's one more thing you gotta know. And actually do this with Let's echo twitter, $twitter. We know what's gonna we got that. But now what I want you to We're gonna actually Connection closed. And let's hit our up arrow put our password in, and now try to echo your variable again. Echo twitter, just pause the video and go. Unpause. It didn't work, did it? If I do it right now, echo Why Elon? No, it wasn't Elon's Yes, we set up an environment variable. Yes, we made available to But we didn't make it permanent. So as you might have guessed, I'm gonna show you how to So that every time you if your system reboots or whatever, when you log in your And all we gotta do is edit In fact, it's .bashrc. And by the way, in case you don't know, in Linux, when a file has a . You can't see it. Because right now it's in it's in our home directory. And try to look, look at it, type in ls. Well, I don't see anything but our script, but if we put on our secret something's gonna happen. Whoa, look at all these hidden things, including Mr. Bashrc right here. I told you he was there. I'm not crazy. (Chuck slurping) Now, what is bashrc? Well, it's essentially a script that will run every time you log in. It will set things up for make sure everything works for you. And this is where we can and make sure it's set up all we gotta do is edit that file. Simple enough. Let's do it real quick. How do you edit a file? Well, And we'll do nano .bashrc. Man, we're doin' it. And here's all we have which we used before to export and we'll say export twitter I spelt it wrong, Elon Musk. There we go. That's it. Hit Control X Y Enter. Edited, done. Now if we try it right Trust me, it's not. Try it. Didn't work. Why do you think it didn't work? If you answered, well, the so we haven't tried to log in again. You're exactly right. So let's Then we'll jump back in. Here we go, fingers crossed echo $twitter. There it is. There's Elon Musk. I know he wouldn't leave us. Okay. Coffee break. We did a lot. We made our variables as permanent as we could for ourselves. We can use this sucker everywhere. But enough about variables, or at least find out when Let's edit our script. And actually, before we edit our script, I wanna cover one thing. Again, I mentioned before by using the random variable. And in the beginning I also said we're gonna use simple math. Because you can do math with and especially with Bash. And as I mentioned earlier, that simple math is just plus our variable age. Now we do have one problem that you probably realized, right? Random by default will generate a number between 0 and 32,767. I can't believe I memorized I'm like grain man. So let's say it does generate Well, we're dead. That's not fun. So we need to change which numbers it will randomly generate. Here's how we do it. This will also be a math problem, and we're not gonna do we're gonna do it right So type in echo, 'cause and we're now gonna start what's called an arithmetic expression, which is just a really fancy word to say, we're gonna do some math here, guys. That's it. So type in this; dollar sign and one more open parenthesis, and then do a closed parenthesis and another closed parenthesis. And then we're gonna put in the stinkin' middle. And with this, we're just tellin' Bash, hey, get ready for some math, buddy. We're gonna add some stuff. We're gonna subtract some things. Divide, multiply. It's all gonna happen That's all we're doin', we're just tellin' Bash And inside this is where For example, I'm gonna do space 2 Bam. We just did Bash math. Which is way better than regular math. Don't tell your teachers You don't need a calculator, all you need is a Linux terminal, man. Now, again, keeping in hey, this is an arithmetic expression by doing a dollar sign with our opening and And then we have our expression, Now I added space there You don't have to have space. But go ahead and try a random problem. For example, you could do Multlplication. Easy for And then back slash for division. No, wait, not back slash, There we go. Now notice how when we do 2 Bash by default will not which is just decimal, like .5, .3, 3.2. And if we use our calculator, 2 divided by 3 is So why didn't it tell us that? Because it doesn't do And the same thing goes for like let's say 10 divided by 3. 3 does not evenly go into 10, so we'll obviously have a remainder, we'll have a fraction, a decimal. But we get a whole number; 3. Which brings us to a tool to be able to calculate that random number in a range we want. There's a little thing in it's a math thing, called modulo. It's the percent sign. So instead of division, we're gonna use modulo. And what this will do of that division problem. So if we run that real quick, 10 modulo 3, it'll give us 1. Which, 3 going into 10; 3, 6, 9. We've got one leftover to make that 10, that's the remainder. So now we're gonna do a So check this out. I know it's a long, drawn Trust me, it was necessary. So we're gonna echo, we're gonna start our I can't even say that, with dollar sign open and we're gonna call our variable random. And then we're going to and let's just put the number 10. That's what we're gonna do. And then closing parenthesis. Huh. Three? Let's do it again. Five. Nine. Zero. Eight. Eight. We can keep going, just forever. Now you probably guess what's happening. Doing that gives us a number it gives us 0 through 9. It's saying 10 digits. And you know computers so 0 through 9, that's 10 digits. That's what we're doing Now, if you wanna know, hey, That's a different video. Just know that's what we have to do. That's the pattern to make this work. So go with that same pattern. If you wanted a random so we put like 20. That's what we get. Come There we go, 14. 16. 18. That's the pattern. So You got the skills. You You already know. What I want you to do is and I want you to add a random number between 0 and 14 to your age. In fact, I want you to put so have that variable equals and then echo out a sentence that says, hey, something like this. I don't know, I have thought about it. Hey, you're gonna become Do it right now. Pause the video. Unpause. If you did it, by I'm gonna walk you through Coffee break. So, let's get back to our script. Nano getrichquick.sh. Done here. I am gonna remove all and all of the extra variables. We're done with that. I'm gonna add a little Sleep two. And then here The variable will be getrich. I'm gonna have that equal dollar sign open parenthesis get a little bit of space, we $random modulo. What did I say? 0 to 14? So I'm gonna do modulo 15. Givin' me the numbers 0 through 14. Now, here's where it may not a big deal. For this equation, and it's we need to enclose the random modulo 15 in its own little parentheses. You know, math. So we're gonna close So now we're taking random and adding it to our age. So we'll do a plus and then we'll add two to close it out and make sure That should set our variable. Now all we have to do is echo this out. Echo, I'm gonna do name. Name, you will become a millionaire when you are getrich years old. That's it. That's the thing. That's how we're gonna know Aren't you excited? So, real quick, before we enter, I wanna add some build I'm gonna do echo calculating, and I wanna do a loading screen to make it build up the suspense. That's more fun. Okay, there we go. A nice little fun loading screen for us to build up a suspense. Okay, here we go. We are ./getrichquick. Okay. My name is Chuck. I'm 32. I need some coffee. I'm 32. Here we go. Oh, it's calculating. When I'm 39. Okay, I can deal with that. I can deal with that. That's fine. Now I did spell millionaire wrong. I realize that now. That's my bad. 39. I can deal with that. Post below when you're How old will you be? Let me know. Whew. Okay. Now in this video we covered but my idea was there and I had to do it, so I apologize for the length. If you liked it, let me know. But here's what we covered. We covered variables, more Variables that are built in which are awesome, like But then we also saw how we could make our own system variables, but we had to do a few things, especially if we wanted to be able to use them. We had to convert them export those bad boys. And then if you wanted them permanent, every time we logged in, we And then more importantly, we found out when we're by using random and some simple math. We saw that math can be accomplished with a arithmetic expression, just a dollar sign, equation, parenthesis parenthesis. Either way, super fun, super powerful. Now there was one more thing but I just couldn't. It would make this so stinkin' long. But I did a lotto thing, where I played the Texas lottery and we got our lotto numbers It was a fun little way to practice this. If you want a extra lab, a extra way to solidify these skills, check it out. Link below to Network Chuck Now also, the skills we learned we're gonna be using in the next video, and the next video's a little crazy. It took me way too long to just kinda play with it and have fun, but we're gonna be building That gonna be stupid, so I'll see you there on the next episode. And if you're watching here man, I hate waiting for the next episode. Well, guess what? The next episode is already so go check it out, link below. And also, have you hacked Let's make sure you do. Hit that like button, notification You gotta hack YouTube Yeah. That's all I got. I will catch you guys next time. (upbeat music)