How are they? I just have to correct a concrete, it seems like a good opportunity to record a tutorial. This is going to be longer than usual, here we go. Here is the image that the client requested from us. correct it with a concrete similar to this... although we have a lot of concrete here, but like that, not a very good one, so I'm going to try, no, I'm going to make one as similar as possible, I'm going to guide you step by step. Here I have the materials open, I always work with this editor, the smaller one seems more comfortable to me, but when you create materials, the other one is better so let's go to Slate, here I already have three maps selected... hey, what collection is this? This... wait, I bring this here from the other screen so we can all see it clearly. this is dee.. arroway, which seems to me the best or very good textures to get are very good and they have three maps they are quite simple, so well I have this I'm going to try an interactive one all the time, right now we have this concrete and I have to change it to the other one so I'm going to make a concrete similar to that one, let's see if it starts interactive There it goes go ahead... very good it was this one we have to for the other one, I'm going to stop this let's go Seeing later, I'm going to create a material, I'm going to make a legacy now. This goes in the Difuse and with this first step I am going to try to see how the concrete looks here, for that I apply it to see where it is... although small, sorry but I have to have everything there, so here I apply it to this and here it is, it was well mapped at once..., but let's see, I'll take this for a second, it was well mapped at once but generally it will not fit well mapped, I'm going to copy this to leave it map and in Box You see that well, generally it will never be well mapped, they map it, they scale it to the extent they have to go, I'm going to leave the one that was there, that was fine and with this base I'm going to try to see if the color and everything is fine. .. I'm going to launch an interactive and maybe leave the interactive running now so as not to start it all the time because it takes a little while to start. This is a square country house, the usual ones, let's see. There it goes, here I see that it is very white, we are going to correct the concrete, I am going to leave this interactive so we can see it... the first thing I would do is put an output on this to lower it a little, general maps the output has to be over here, there it goes I use it here and now... I would lower this a little so that the gray looks a little better I'm going to make this a little bigger so we can see more detail... the concrete a little less too... there it goes... there I think the color is good, it's good, it's a little lighter than the one above but it's okay, the scale is also good maybe they'll change it later. But it doesn't matter here we are making the material. What is it? This is the diffuse too, well I'm going to bring Ah No... Bump's bump... or is it a db...? stop stop stop... eh 25 let's go compuuu. I add it to the bump that is here And there And there it begins to have a little more detail, more in the buttons here, but let's see...how much Bump does it have...? By double clicking there in the general I enter the main page of the material... bump bumpp bumpp, where are you? This changed me... doing the other Well, come on, I think... a three is going to work well, or is it a lot maybe...? no, it's a lot wn 1 was perfect now let's see the reflections, I'm going to put it at 1 to put us at the top here like the flat camera is, you can't see anything but this is reflecting a lot I'm probably going to throw this map at it of reflections on the glossiness that is there, eh here it went down a lot here you can't see it but here I realize that.... that the bump is a little exaggerated... do you see that it has too much...? here maybe this is good but all this is wrong, so what I'm going to do I'm going to lower the bump a little to 0.5 so that it looks more real There it is a little better the ant is not so No it's not a stone, and here I see that the reflections are very white, because everything is well regulated, the light, the exposure is at 2, it could be at 1 but although If it is at 1, that white is too much, that white will later burn the image and it will not look good. So to correct that... Again I'm going to put an output here general output where are you?.... Oh God! Here is the output and I lower the whites a little so that it doesn't have that hit of white. There the blacks would have to disappear a little bit . There it goes much better. much smoother =) .. and that's how it could be. Well, the material is already quite good, but I want to add a little bit of dirt around it, something that makes it a little more real, so for that I will leave the output here and I will generate an ambient occlusion, which I think can work, they are the maps .. materials maps Corona good AC the distance could be too... but I want an AO What does the AO do?, it does: you have two colors, the main color and the non-main color and the distance between those two colors I will I'm going to put it here and we're going to see it here I'm going to ask myself Where do I put this one, in the occluded I'm going to turn it around... I never hit it there Which one is which supposedly now all the edges that hit with another geometry are going to generate a black color I'm going to put it in red to see what it's doing well, there you see it... that little red thing is being put together here... And if I increase the distance..., ah I don't know 500 cm, it grows that's the red there on the edges, that is, and this is outside, I put it outside and inside is going to be all red, we don't want that, inside is just going to be all red and we are going to use what is the relationship, it is when an object is close to the one on the another one makes you dye that color so to give it a little more reality what I can do is from here create a... output could be but a Corona color correct I'm also going to do it with that input and I'm going to make a a little darker I don't know about 0.5, it's the same map and I'm pasting it here, so on these edges the map is going to be a little darker, which is what happens with the concrete. More or less it's getting old, it could be a little darker to see it better... and what we can do in the AO distance is a mask, a map so that the distribution is different, I'm going to bring a mask here , anyone, maps masks, I don't know how to see this one. I paste this in the distance, I'm going to take this out of here to see back what the red is doing, and there you see that it is distributed according to that map so you can see it, I'm going to try to see, I'm going to put this see in the scene.. There it is, and I can change the scale, this change the tiling so that it is not so big, I change to 2 2 and this will change too and....there it is much more real than before... At least it has something... so that you understand well what this does, I'm going to make a box here and I'm going to paste it to the top Box Box, what the AO is doing is this when this object intersects with another object. It gets dirty, very well, I leave this here as an example, I'll send you back to this one, and it's minimal, but on high, this concrete will look much better, and apart from that, if you want, I don't know how to create something somewhere, you can make this not. be visible. Let's see if this works?? No, rather than not, it should be renderable but not visible for all these things, it doesn't work either . Well, there is some way that I don't remember right now so that this doesn't show up. It also generated the spots there, try. I continue, I'm going to delete this. Concrete is going to be much more real here. There is another way to do it, which is with Corona distance, which is the same, it generates the same effect, it is a little more detailed but you can control it more, you can choose from where to where and what objects generate dirt. in the concrete. I think it's pretty good like this, it's going to look good high up, maybe we could give it a little more reflection... but I don't like concrete that reflects, so with this it's perfect, let's see I'm going to see it for a while. a little bigger and that's how we generally work with the materials in detail, to see what is generated in each corner. This is fine, the whites are fine, the dirt is fine, it could have a little more... it seems that if I make it darker this could be a little better, 0.1, it's almost black But hey, it looks better, it looks better. What you see here is not generated, so it comes with the map. I hope this is useful to you. bye