Let's rest and eat here and wait for Ms. Tsuruko, Noda-kun. I'll go and kill them. I'll go too. We just need to rest and recuperate. We don't need to kill anyone. If everyone is killed, who will cook for us? Let's go in quietly and control them first. We Come on, Xiao Min, run to your dad Xiao Min, leave me alone Xiao Min , shut up and don't ask Iwai to catch that little girl and come with me. Old lady, as long as you cook and boil water for us, the Imperial Army will not kill you, Emperor. The army won't kill you, do you understand? Baga, the stubborn Baga, the stubborn old lady. As long as you work for the imperial army, you will have a lot of money. See, don't shoot and arrest those alive over there. , Come on, you two, Hey Yamamoto-kun, she is walking in front, please let me go. I am worthy of being the daughter of the chief of the security department at such a young age. She is quite smart . Let me go. You bastards, we guys have worked hard to be polite. Waiting for you here, you should say at this time, please take care of me. What are you going to do? Please play a play and take it away. Hey, go, let go. Let me go. Let me go. Let me go. Xiao Min. Put me down. Grandma Xiao Min. Xiao Min. Be honest. Point it out to all of you who are so heartless. She is still a child. You let her go. You want to kill me or cut her into pieces. Come to my old lady. Ours will not kill you and will let her go. You let me go. You let her go. Kill me and I will die. She can't let go. I want you to tell Shen Yingjie immediately that her daughter is in our hands and ask him if he wants to make a deal with us. Yes, he will know the specific time and place. We will tell him Hezi Hezi. Hezi, I'm sorry that I didn't protect you Shen Yingjie. I must kill you, Hezi. I'll avenge you. It's over. The fight outside was so fierce. The man named Shen must be dead. He must show off his bravery and fight so many Japanese. This is not meat. Baozi beats the dog, there is no return, you crow mouth, are you still finished? The fierce beating outside proves that Section Chief Shen is still alive and well. What is the difference between dying a few minutes earlier and dying a few minutes later? Anyway, I will die with one word, you stare. What are you doing to me? I want to see if you can escape this time. How can you escape if I'm handcuffed to this pillar? If you move, the roof will collapse and you will kill me. You guys are really cruel. Only then do you understand what you are doing. Go to me and find Shen Ke. As long as it lasts, you can throw another meat bun to beat the brains of dogs and pigs. Xiao Min, Xiao Min, Xiao Min, I'm here to save you. It's a devil's trap. Yes, you fell into a trap. You didn't die. I knew you would be fooled. It's a pity that I didn't catch you. Who is this little girl Shen Yingjie? She is the granddaughter of the old man who keeps the mine. She died yesterday. It comes in handy. Where is Xiao Min? Why are we willing to use her as bait? The bullets don't have eyesight. What if she dies? This trump card will destroy you. Chief Shen, you must be careful not to be fooled. Wang Ying, why is she here? Little Japan wants to snipe me, let me go, let me go, Tsuruko, you are not dead. What happened to this woman? Did you arrest her after a long time? She is Shen Yingjie's woman. You are talking nonsense. You don't need to deny it anymore. We are all women. You can understand at a glance. If you don't love a man, how can you be worried about a man and be willing to die for him? This time, thanks to Miss Tsuruko, she set the trap. Now we have another bargaining chip. Let's lock her up until Shen Yingjie comes. We won't be afraid if he doesn't hand over Dai Suichang. Hey, let's go. I'll go by myself. Come on, let me go. Let me go. Let me go. His leg is injured. He can't escape. His leg is injured. I can't escape. Catch him alive. He has no bullets. Go ahead and blow him up. Don't blow him up. Dai Suichang is still in his hands. You are so brave. You dare to come to me alone. I beg you. It was you who asked for a replacement. You pig-headed brother, I brought you here. You can't keep your words and slap yourself in the face. Oh Nakajima, he kicked my wound, and my conscience was greatly damaged. You, Nakajima-kun, are very unfriendly. Who is friendly with you? I am now Negotiating a replacement, are you being friendly to me ? Let him go. Let your man go. I brought you my daughter. Let her out. Don't worry. Our deal has not been completed yet. Our purpose here is to eliminate Dai Suichang. As long as you If you agree to help us, I will guarantee that your daughter can return to you safely. You said that you all look like human beings, how can you do such despicable things? You lost the war, kidnapped my daughter, and threatened me to trade as a prisoner. Okay, I Everyone I promised has been brought back to you, but you broke your promise and went even further. Are you still a bandit? According to your Chinese military art, this is called war. If you want to save your daughter, you have no choice but to agree to our request. Mr. Shen, in fact, Dai Suichang is In your words, Wang Jingwei is a big traitor and your enemy. Our imperial army just wants to help you and help you to eliminate Dai Suichang. Why do you have to protect him? Think carefully about whether Dai Suichang is more important or not. Your daughter's life is important. I still don't know whether my daughter is dead or alive. You have to let me see her first. Bring her. Hey, daddy, Xiaomin. Xiaomin, let me take a look. Let daddy check. Are you okay? I'm okay, daddy. You're not hurt, right? No, it's nothing. Okay, stop crying. Go home and cry. You can't cry in front of the little devil. Dad, you shouldn't take advantage of my rescue. It's too dangerous. Danger doesn't matter. As long as I can save you, Dad. Don't be afraid even to the death, Dad, Dad, please don't believe their nonsense . Don't worry, Dad knows what he is thinking. Dad, Xiao Min, Dad, Xiao Min, Dad, what are you thinking about? It's actually very simple. As long as you kill Dai Suichang, I will return her to you right away. If I kill Dai Suichang, You can really return your daughter to me. I promise you that as long as you come here with Dai Suichang's head, I will release your daughter immediately and we will leave Hushan Town immediately. I will ask you one last time how you decided whether Dai Suichang died or not. If your daughter dies, I will fight with you to take her away. Dad, Dad, let me go. If you dare to touch my daughter, I will chop you alive. I will kill you right away . Come on, you have the guts to shoot. Takeshi Noda, stop. Mr. Shen, get up . Hao, you are so unhappy and have something on your mind. I'm worried about Section Chief Shen. I don't know if he will come back. You said Section Chief Shen, what's wrong with him? If he doesn't come back, what will happen to this traitor in the cellar? Go in and listen to me. The order is not to alert the enemy. Hey, listen to me. The two people guarding the slaughterhouse are my brothers. Let me greet them. You are not allowed to hurt them, otherwise you will not find Dai Suichang. If you dare to threaten me, I will threaten you. If you want, To kill Dai Suichang, you must listen to me, otherwise I will call for reinforcements to fight, and no one will be left behind. Well, as long as Dai Suichang can be eliminated, I will listen to you and who is it? Master Gou, I am Section Chief Shen, don't move, Chief Shen, stay away. Chief Gun Shen Shen, don't be nervous, Dapeng. They are our own people. They are obviously the devils. Yes, they are the real devils. But I have promised to cooperate with them to kill Dai Suichang. If you cooperate with them, you will rebel. Who are you? Now that it's clear, let's have fun with them. Stop talking nonsense. Where is Dai Suichang? Miss Tsuruko told you that Dai Suichang is hiding in the cellar to open the way. Iwai has already entered. Everything goes well. A massacre is about to begin. I can already smell the blood. The smell is coming. Open the cellar. Chief Shen, listen to me. Open the cellar before letting the wind out. It suffocates me. Dai Suichang's death date has arrived. The situation is not right with the Japanese. Baga, go and meet Iwai. It's not right. Stop and hide. Noda-kun, there is a problem. Yamamoto-kun. Let's split up. Tsuruko Yoshino, let's go around that way, Commander Li. What happened to the town's slaughterhouse? The Japs attacked the slaughterhouse. The Japs attacked the slaughterhouse. Why didn't you know? Lao Cai gathered the team. Xiao Song informed Captain Zhang to lead the team to follow. It's Master Dapeng Gou. Look. See if he has a grenade on him, Master Gou, Master Gou, Master Gou, I can play with flying knives, even my pig-killing knife can fly. Brother Shen, please go quickly, I will cover you. If you can't, take Dai Suichang and leave, I will cover you. Go quickly, only you can protect Dai Suichang. I can't. That skill, please go quickly, don't miss your mother-in-law, mother-in-law, you're going to miss something important. Dai Suichang, go this way, this way, Tojo- kun, block them. Baga, everyone, be careful, Iwai-kun, Iwai- kun, Noda-kun, Dai Suichang, kill him down there and beat him. Noda-kun, we were deceived. Did n't you Dai Suichang and Shen Yingjie? I'm going to skin you alive. Don't let them escape. Hurry up, Noda-kun. The enemy's reinforcements are coming. Hurry and retreat. Take the brothers away. Noda-kun, taking them to retreat will slow down our lift. I 'm leaving, Staff Officer Li. He's still alive, Master Gou. I'm Xiao Ziping from the security department. Master Gou, Master Gou. Master Gou, tell me what happened here. Why did the Japs attack here? Chief Shen brought the Japs here. He misses him. He misses him. He, Master Gou, Master Gou, Master Gou, this Shen Yingjie, it turns out that he colluded with the Japanese devils to rebel and surrender to the enemy. It's so urgent. Where are we going to save my daughter? Why save your daughter? Yes, my daughter was captured by the Japanese and locked up in a mine. We must rescue her before the Japanese retreat. You are saying that we are going to the Japanese tiger and wolf den, right? How can we save my daughter if we don't go there? Your surname is Shen. Your mission is to protect me. You cannot harm my interests to save your daughter. I'm entrusting you with your interests. In order to protect you, I've been made to look like a human and a ghost. If you keep babbling, believe it or not, I'll destroy you. I was originally going to Chongqing and I didn't want to come to Hushan . You kidnapped me forcibly. If you think I'm troublesome, you might as well let me go. As long as I leave, everything will be fine for you. You think so beautifully. Letting you go now will make it even more troublesome for me. Let's go. Staff Li, now it seems that Shen Yingjie It turned out that Dai Suichang was hidden in the cellar of the slaughterhouse, so he brought the Japs here to rob him. Since he has surrendered to the Japs, Dai Suichang will definitely not be able to survive. You see, it is very important whether we should do it or not. We need to ask Commander Huang for instructions. Zhang Lianchang quickly sent a report to Commander Huang. It is said that Shen Yingjie has rebelled. Dai Suichang's whereabouts are unknown. Please give instructions from the commander. Xiao Ziping, I now order you to act as the head of the Security Section. First of all, you must stabilize everyone's emotions and don't lose your position because of Shen Yingjie's rebellion. Comrades, the current situation is very serious and serious . Yingjie has handed over Dai Suichang to the Japanese, but as long as there is no confirmation that Dai Suichang was killed, even if there is a glimmer of hope, we will try every means to get Dai Suichang back. Captain Zhang, after the Japanese succeed, they must flee back to Sioux City as soon as possible and mobilize all the troops to seize all the key roads. Especially the waterways must be strictly inspected and understood. It's so pitiful. Come on, come on, buy a couple of steamed buns. I don't know what evil I did when I was young. Now I have become a beggar. Mr. looks unlucky and speaks meanly. I'm afraid there will be a bloody disaster. He killed someone with a borrowed knife. Well done. But it was not you who killed Dai Suichang. I can only give you half of the reward. If you want to see someone dead, you want to see a corpse. Dai Suichang is not dead yet, so you want to deduct the reward. The one who died is you. The one who died is you. Why, Dai Suichang is not dead, hurry up and sink. Section Chief, I can't run. We can't rest for a while. We can't get to the mine before the Japanese come back. That's no good. I won't leave. I have to pee. Pee. You pee. When can you pee? No. You have to pee now. Why do you pee so much? You kicked all the pee out of me. Kick me out. Come on, pee. Why are you cuffing me? Come on , wear Suichang. Don't move. Wang Ying, why are you here? Staff Li has a deep misunderstanding of you. I want to find out. If you figure out the truth of the matter, I thought you would definitely save Xiao Min. The Japs have been haunting Fengtouling for the past two days, so I found this place. It's too dangerous. What will you do if you run into the Japs? As long as I can find you. No matter how dangerous it is, I am not afraid of swords and fire. I am willing to go. But you came just in time. I am worried about how to save Xiao Min with such a burden. You said I should hide him. I am afraid that he will run away. It just so happens that you watch him for me. Chief Shen, you'd better go back with me and explain it clearly to Staff Officer Li. The more people we have, the greater the strength. I can't go back now. Even if I go back, it's too late. Wait until I explain it clearly to Staff Officer Li. The day lilies will have already been there. &quot;Come on, Chief Shen, you are taking too much of a risk. You have to protect Dai Suichang and prevent him from escaping. You also have to save Xiao Min. You have to fight the Japanese, find out the traitor, and be wary of being chased by your own people and misunderstandings. You can do it alone.&quot; These are simply impossible tasks. It can't be completed, and I have to complete it. Otherwise, Secretary Guan, Xiao Wengou, Master Dapeng, and all the comrades from the underground party in Su City all died in vain. Go away, Section Chief Shen, Wang Ying, are you still here? Go back and tell Staff Officer Li that I was born as a Communist and died as a ghost of the New Fourth Army. What he saw was all an illusion. The real traitor is not me. I am right next to him. Come on, Shen Yingjie. I will go with you, Noda-kun. Don't forget that Shen Yingjie has been here since. If the slaughterhouse escapes, he will definitely rush back to Feng Touling to rescue his daughter. By then, we will have lost the trump card to coerce him. So I beg you not to delay any more time. Bury the brothers on the spot. Let's go, let's get up quickly. Come on, please tell me when you fall . Do you think I want to trip? Okay, do n't be afraid. The bat scared me to death. I'm here. What are you afraid of? What are you looking at? Come on. Where are we going? There is a road to heaven. If you don't take it, there is no door to hell. You go your own way. Stop talking nonsense and go. Slow down. Tell me to slow down. You are handcuffed together. Open it quickly. I will save Xiao Min. Just hide here. Chief Shen. Don't worry, Chief Shen. Don't worry, sir. I will definitely keep an eye on him. Are you crazy? You lured me into the little devil's den. You are throwing yourself into a trap. You know, with your IQ, the most dangerous place is the safest place. The little devil is absolutely sure. They wouldn't have thought that the person they are trying so hard to hunt down is hiding right under their noses. I'm warning you, there are little devils chasing you everywhere outside this cave. Just stay here and stay here, otherwise you will die. No one can protect you, Chief Shen, I'm really scared. This cave is as gloomy as a living coffin. What should I do if I can't get out? It's okay if I can't get out. I don't want to go out and harm others. Then I'm leaving, Chief Shen. Be careful, Wang Ying, you are the only one who can help me now. If I can't come back this time, you must find a way to control Dai Suichang and take him back to Staff Li. As for what will happen in the future, I can't do anything about it. Goodbye, give me the key to the handcuffs. If I leave you here, you will be unlucky and die. What should I do? You crow-mouthed man, drink quickly. Team Leader Noda is back. If he sees us drinking here, he will definitely get scolded again. Yes, Team Leader Noda is very affectionate and righteous to us. I will accept it. He heard about Ms. Tsuruko. She used to be Noda's team leader's school girl. She really likes Noda-kun's Tsuruko. That woman has a good background. Noda-kun doesn't want to offend her. Yes, he heard that she is Okamura Nakasa's lover, Okamura Nakasa. But the future is promising. The Chinese military officers take it very seriously. You said that if such a beautiful woman could be held in his arms and slept, he would be willing to be shot . Yoxi, drink, drink, Nakajima-kun, come, come, keep drinking, drink quickly, come, come. Drinking, drinking, rats, etc. If you don't find anything, let me come. Don't go. I blocked the tunnel. Noda-kun's actions at the slaughterhouse were planned by Shen Yingjie a long time ago. It was to save his daughter, Cai Tenghu Lishan, whom he first met in Hushan Town. When Shen Yingjie was born, I had a hunch that he would be our strongest enemy, but everyone has a weakness. I believe Shen Yingjie's weakness should be his adopted daughter Xiao Min. He has a very deep feeling for this girl, so as long as we have Xiao Min in hand. But if Xiao Min is lost, the operation to eliminate Dai Suichang will inevitably fail. Go back to the mine and be sure to get there before Shen Yingjie. Ken Nakajima is also very famous in Fukuoka. I won the third place in the All Japan Amateur Weightlifting Competition. Nakajima is amazing. You are awesome, let alone lifting a stone. You can lift the earth while standing on the moon. Your sarcasm, I am Nakajima- kun, I 'm sorry, Nakajima-kun, Dad, you are daddy, hurry up, daddy, daddy, come to save you, daddy, are you here to save me? I'm not. Are you dreaming? Come to me, Nakajima- kun. We are drinking. The flower girl is working. Where is the flower girl? My flower girl. Your drinking flower girl. There are enemies. There are enemies. Come on. Come on. Baga. You two, hurry up and chase me, Xiao Min, dad, please let go of me. You are my dad's daughter. How can dad ignore you? Go over there and chase me here. It scares me to death, Xiao Min, don't be willful. Come on, I guess there must be something in this mine. Another exit: Dad, you can't hold me, a big girl like me. If you don't hold me, I won't get up and let the Japanese capture me. Dad, I beg you, what time has it been? You ca n't be willful. There's a snake under your butt. Go, go, Nakajima- kun. It seems that this is not the passage they escaped from. My judgment is absolutely correct. Chase dad. Isn't this where we were just now? We're back again. Run, move away. I'm right. They should be right here. Quick, quick. Come on, Chase seems to be very calm. There should be nothing wrong. Don't be careless. Chief Shen hasn't come back yet. Will he be killed by the kid? Shut your crow mouth. Tell me why this person named Shen is so desperate. It's for promotion and fortune. It seems that it's not his turn. It's not his fault for women. If you understood this truth, you wouldn't be a traitor. By the way, I see that Shen is always protecting you. You two are so flirtatious that you seem to be a good match. Don't stop talking nonsense. Be careful, I will slap you. Dad has no way to go. Xiao Min, I'm sorry. I didn't protect you well. You failed your father's instructions. You are my father. Xiao Min is not afraid as long as I die with you. I will die with you. It's all worth it. Don't let them escape. Eliminate them. Dad, there is a hole here. Chase it. Go quickly. Chase it. Chase it. This car will definitely lead to the outside of the cave. Get in the car. Dad, Dad, hide. Don't show up. Dad, Baga, you two, catch up. Quickly catch up. You chase me and cover me, daddy, daddy, daddy, daddy. Little girl, get off the bus at the station, let me go, let me go, Noda-kun, let me go. Fortunately, we arrived in time. Shen Yingjie should still be inside to search for Staff Officer Li. The troops have blocked all intersections leading to Sioux City and are investigating suspicious areas. So far, the whereabouts of the Japs have not been found. It is strange that the Japs must have fled back to Sioux City as soon as possible after getting Dai Suichang. It is impossible to cause trouble and stay in Hushan. I wonder if you can ask the underground of Sioux City. The comrades of the party asked them to find out the details of the enemy. Both Lao Guan and Xiao Wen sacrificed their lives. Our contact with the underground party organization in Su City was completely cut off. Shen Yingjie's rebellion turned the world into a pot of porridge. Fan Jian, what are you doing? The special commissioner wants to see you, sir. Someone wants to see the commander. Fan Jian, the special commissioner of the Third War Zone Commander's Command in Sioux City. He has a good background. What kind of special commissioner? I think he is a spy who always causes trouble for us. What does he want to do? Report to the leader. He came to see him last night. Secretary Guan insisted on taking Dai Suichang away with an official document. Secretary Guan refused to let him in. I heard that your Secretary Guan is dead. Who is in charge here today? This is Staff Officer Li sent by our headquarters. What do you have? Talk to him, Commander Li. Commander Li, Fan Jian, has come to Hushan to pick up the traitor, Dai Suichang, on the orders of Commander-in-Chief Gu Zhutong of the Third War Zone. Please hand him over. Are you in a hurry? Everyone has the right and responsibility to deal with the traitor. Why should we give it to you? Dai Suichang is not an ordinary traitor. He is a key criminal of Wang Puppet. You cannot deal with it as you like. You have to wait for Commander Huang to interrogate him personally before making a decision. You don't have to worry about it. Okay, I can wait for your Commander Huang's decision. But now I can You can't let me see Dai Suichang so that I can report to Commander Gu. I don't think it's necessary. As far as I know, Dai Suichang has been shot by you, right? That's nonsense. If he's not dead, why don't you let me see him? Then let's open the skylight and say Come clean4 Dai Suichang has been secretly colluding with you for a long time, and there is an ulterior secret behind it. If you paint bloody pictures and spray people with blood, I warn you that if you dare to kill an important prisoner like Dai Suichang quietly, it shows that you are a thief and have a guilty conscience. Gray mouth 9 You must take full responsibility for all the consequences that arise from this. You even beat up this person. Drive him out. His surname is Li. I will go to Chief Gu to sue you. Do whatever you want. Commissioner, what do you think? These rubes are too arrogant. The more arrogant they dare not to take you seriously, the more flaws they can see. It shows that they have a guilty conscience. I guess Dai Suichang is no longer in their hands. So where is he? Could it be that he was captured by the Japanese? Dai Suichang is dead. Wouldn't it be better if we die and our mission is completed? We can go back. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, we need to get the exact results. We can't go right until the exact results come out. The leaders have considered the problem wisely and pointed us in the way forward. Cut the nonsense and go quietly. The quails are coming for me. It's Staff Li. That guy is not a good person. Let's see if he smells something. Yes, we are under too much pressure. If Dai Suichang can't get it back, the consequences will be disastrous. Dai Suichang will not be seen alive, but dead and dead. Where are you? Don't move. What do you want to do? I'm hungry. I want to get something to eat. What's delicious? I ca n't help it. Normally at this time, I should have lunch. Shut up. There are so many devils outside waiting to be killed. What about you? It's all your fault that you still think about eating. I know too much. There's a shocking secret hidden in this belly. Miss Wang, you have to take this as a warning. I'm going to tell you a philosophy of life. Don't be curious. Don't be too curious. If you know too many secrets about killing people, you will become a thorn in their side. If you can't eat well and sleep well, you may be killed inexplicably at some time. Who makes you a traitor? If you haven't done anything wrong. Why do you have to be so worried ? Why do I have to pee? How can I hold it in? Why are you going over there to have a good time? This young girl still wants to guard me. My secretary, Director Dai Suichang, Dai Suichang, we have to go in and search. There are too many holes here. A search is impossible . Xi, this traitor has tricked me again. Dai Suichang, stop, Dai Suichang, Wang Ying, Noda-kun, and no one of Shen Yingjie's accomplices has been found in the perimeter search. He is hiding in the mine and cannot escape. Everyone who enters the mine must be eliminated. Shen Yingjie, why did you go over there to get drunk? He must have lured the Japanese away. Dai Suichang is here. Guard, hey, how did Shen Yingjie sneak in? I don't understand. You're drunk. Baga. Hey, you want to escape. Shen Yingjie is here. Say it somewhere, say it quickly, Baga, say it, say it, don't say it, I'll chop you up, you're dead if you don't tell me, where is Chief Shen, let her go, I want to avenge Iwai-kun, Noda-kun, you are too impulsive, even if you kill her, what will happen? What can we do? This girl is the only bait in our hands. Only by using her can we lure out Shen Yingjie, Noda-kun. You must remember that destroying Dai Suichang is our mission. Shen Yingjie is just an obstacle in our way. Only killing Dai Suichang is the purpose of our actions. Thank you. Your reminder, but you must first kill Shen Yingjie and remove the obstacles before you can eliminate Dai Suichang. I know you are brooding about the death of Iwai Hideo, but you must not lose your mind because of him, because that will affect your judgment and affect our entire operation. I make my own decisions about actions. I don't need a woman to dictate what I do. I hope you don't forget the promise you made to Lieutenant Commander Okamura. If you fail to complete the task, you know what the consequences will be. If Dai Suichang catches you, I will cut you into pieces with my own hands. Section Chief Shen, Dai Suichang, is still inside. Wang Ying, how did you get here? Dai Suichang found a cave entrance, where we came from. Slow down, I told you to run away. I told you to run away . Wang Ying, please calm down, okay? Chief Shen, I'm sorry, I didn't watch him. It 's normal if you can't see him. This guy is slipperier than a loach. I 'll have experience next time. Why didn't you scold me? Why should I scold you? Snake, venomous, snake, devil, devil, devil, wake up, wake up, wake up, you're safe, Chief Shen, you saved me again. I 'm begging you, why are you escaping? Do you still think you didn't die fast enough? I thought there weren't many Japs who could escape, but there weren't many Japs, but they were all masters like you. Xiong Yang, you don't even know how you died. But I want to go to Chongqing to find Commissioner Fan. I have done so many things for the secrets of the party and state. I am a hero. You have given up on this. What a [ __ ] hero. You are a stinking traitor. Let me tell you, since you don't want to stay here honestly, I won't be polite to you. It hurts. You still know it hurts. You can see clearly that the roof of this cave may collapse at any time. It depends on these few things. There is a pillar here to support you. If you dare to move, I will smash you to death without discussion. I am right, right? I don't dare, I don't dare. Chief Xiao Min is still in the hands of the devil. What should we do next? I must Go back and rescue her. Wang Ying, this is the key to the handcuffs. Hide it behind the stone where Dai Suichang was sitting just now. Remember my words. In case I don't come back, you must find a way to take him back to Staff Officer Li. I understand, Shen Yingjie, Shen Yingjie, I Knowing that you are here, we will end it today. Come out and see your daughter, Shen Yingjie. Look out. As long as our Yoshino-kun's hand moves slightly, the sharp blade will cut the rope, and your daughter will immediately be shattered into pieces. I warn you not to. Trying to save her, we have laid a dragnet here. As long as you dare to act rashly, you and your daughter will be dead. You have only one choice now, that is to come out obediently and surrender and hand over Dai Suichang. We, the Japanese Imperial Army, will forgive you. I will count to three now. Next, if you keep hiding and can't come out, we will destroy her. Nakajima-kun Shen Yingjie, I will count to three more now. If you don't come out, I will destroy her other leg. 23. Why hasn't Shen Yingjie shown up? Does he want to give up on him? There is absolutely no way for his daughter. He is a bloody man. Even if he knows that he is going to die, he will not give up his daughter. We have to calm down. Nakajima-kun, Shen Yingjie, if you don't come out, your daughter will be cut into pieces by us. Yoshino-kun, please. Beware of the crane, crane, crane. Who knows how noisy the ups and downs are. The undercurrent is so noisy. The crisis is quietly unfolding. Who knows how harsh the storm is. It wakes everything up. Who knows how noisy the heroes and noisy deeds are taking turns. Who knows? The great changes are so severe that they have awakened everything. Who knows how noisy and heroic deeds are taking turns to be performed?