My Facebook account is &quot;Nguyen Duy Hoang (Nino Hoang)&quot;. Greeting my friends! Valentine's day has gone away so stop making chocolate, ok? Instead of making chocolate continuously, I'm gonna make Flan. It's freaking good, after trying this recipe you will never want to eat this thing out :)). Really really good (but it's still not as &quot;tasty&quot; as me) First of all, I'm gonna make some caramel. Add 80 grams (2.8 ounces) of sugar along with 15ml (1 Tbsp) of water into a small saucepan. Put on medium heat, I rarely make caramel with low heat because I think low heat will make the sugar crystalize easier. Keeping an eye on it, you'll see that the bubbles are breaking more slowly as you cook. The bubbles will break fast again while turning golden brown Make sure that you take the saucepan away from the heat when the caramel is nearly &quot;Good&quot; as it will continue to cook. The sizzle is so satisfying (you don't need to flatten the sugar as it will melt while being baked/steamed I suggest that you use glass moulds or ramekins to keep yourself healthy and pretty :). Or you can use plastic moulds, it will work but also will not very good. Throw it there and continue to make the custard. Firstl, you need to take out 3 lion eggs And then, crack it into a &quot;Vomiting&quot; chicken :)))) to separate the yolk and the white I'm gonna use 3 egg yolks in this recipe Along with 3 whole eggs (these amount od eggs will make the flan rich, firm enough, and melt in your mouth) After cracking enough egg, use a whisk to stir it gently (do not whisk too hard). Until the eggs combine together Set the bowl aside, take out your beautiful pot like man like mine, Don't forget to look at the cute Shinosuke :))) Add 500ml (17 fluid ounces) of milk with 90 grams (3.17 ounces) of sugar. Finally, add 200 grams (7 ounces) of heavy cream. You can replace it with milk but it will not as fatty (rich) as cream, and it will not as fat as you, too :)) (I'm just kidding) Then, set the pot on medium heat Remember to stir it constantly to dissolve the sugar and to prevent the milk from burning, too. If it burns your mommy will criticize you all-day :))) Look at the Pikachu's face and you'll understand :)) Heat until the milk is hot (foaming at the egde of the pot), do not boil! When the milk is hot enough, take the pot out and gradually adding it into the egg, don't pour all at one time or you will have porridge for pigs instead Lastly, add 1 Tsp of vanilla extract (Optional but highly recommended). Mix well, OMG it smells so good just like me :)) Remember to strain it to remove the (un-beaten) eggwhite. After the mixture is strained, pour it into the prepared moulds (the caramel is hard now) I suggest you use 80~100ml (2,7~3,4 fluid ounces) moulds and don't pour the custard too full. Big moulds will take a long time to cook and the custard will not be very smooth! Continue to flex on my freaking cute kettle along with my old silver play button. I had the second (new) button and I will make an unboxing in the next video! You should use trays which have high sides because you need to &quot;bath&quot; the puddings. Add boiling water into the tray till 1/3 to 1/2 of the moulds is enough, don't add too much or you will have &quot;custard soup&quot; as the water goes inside the moulds Bake the puddings at 150oC (300oF) for 40~50 minutes depending on the moulds. The smaller the moulds, the less time will take! If you don't have an oven, don't worry! Steam them with the lowest heat your stove can go, open the lid once for 10s every time you've steamed them for 10 minutes to release the heat. Steam for 30~40 minutes and you are good to go! the cooked pudding will NOT be firm right after you take it out of the oven, it will be jiggling. The flan will be soft and melt in your mouth, especially rich. Put them in the fridge for three to four hours to make them nice and cold! This is the easiest way to take the pudding out! Use a knife and run along the edges of the mould (you don't need to push the knife too deep, just the surface is enough) Cover the mould with a place, shake it around strongly and the pudding will come out :))) Did you see it? It's so easy (not without my talent). And the flan comes out Don't forget to hold the mould and the plate tightly, if they drop, you're dead with your mom With enough heat and time, the pudding will come out nice and smooth! Look at that! I promise that it will taste good, after eating this you will not want to eat this dish out again :)) Eating this just a bit can make me so happy, It's soft, rich and sweet OMG I don't know what to say anymore :)) (It's still not as good as me :))) About my cat's health, I had it a test and the blood parasite hadn't gone yet, his hair is still shedding a lot These days, the weather is sometimes hot and sometimes cold, but when the weather is hot his nose is less runny! He's still being treated so I will update his illness soon! He seems hungry so I'll give him some. But eating sweet and dairy products is not very good for cats, so I rarely give him something like this Don't say my cat is poor when I don't give him food. His food is even fancier than mine:)) OMG I cook for him a lot. I save my money just to buy food for him :))) Look at his satisfying face :))) So adorable. Whenever I kiss him, I can't resist his cuteness and want to devour his whole head Don't forget to subscribe to support me (and also my cat!). Try to make it, I beg you :))). Thanks a lot for supporting me, goodbye! (This English subtitle is translated from Nino's Vietnamese subtitle).