Words of Warning Charles H. Spurgeon Chapter 1 When I was preaching in Dover, England, the hall for our service. As I was walking by the building, I noticed with metal bars on them. These windows belonged to the prison cells It struck me as an unusual combination, that on one level of the building while there were Perhaps the prisoners heard us when we sang did not give them liberty, nor did the words What an accurate picture this is of many people. We preach liberty to captives and proclaim remain year after year in the bondage of Satan, We send up our songs of praise joyously to cannot give them joy because their hearts Some are mourning because of unpardoned sin. Others are weeping because of their ruined where it can never be found. This little circumstance fixed itself in my meditations. I daydreamed that some angelic warden was world prison. He asked me to look into the various cells kept reminding me, as I looked sorrowful, Scripture: He who does justice unto the oppressed; The LORD looses the prisoners (Psalm 146:7). The first cell is called the common prison All people have been prisoners here. Those who today live in perfect liberty once the dark walls. I entered the cell, and instead of hearing and repeated bursts of laughter. The atmosphere was boisterous and noisy. The profane were cursing and blaspheming. Others shouted as though they had found a I looked into the faces of some of the criminals Their attitude was that of wedding guests Walking back and forth, I noticed prisoners When I spoke to them of their prison and urged &quot;We were born free and were never in bondage Scripture: They answered him, We are Abraham's sayest thou, Ye shall be set free? (John 8:33). They asked me to prove my words. When I pointed to the iron chains on their chains were ornaments that produced music They said it was only my dull and depressing and jingling chains. There were men shackled hard and fast to foul free-livers, while others whose very thoughts their soul, cried out to me with proud looks I had never seen such prisoners before, nor But one thing I noticed as I walked throughout and shackles thought themselves to be the part of the dungeon thought they had the most Those whom I considered to be the most wretched who laughed the most and shouted most insanely I looked with sorrow, but then I saw a bright then withdrew with the shining one. He went out, and I knew that the prisoner because I had read: The LORD looses the prisoners. As he departed, though, his fellow prisoners him hypocrite, pretender, and all sorts of rang again with their merry contempt. I watched and saw the mysterious visitor touch they disappeared. The common conversation in the prison was become slaves or miserable fanatics. But I knew that they had gone to be free forever, What struck me most was that the prisoners love were often the worst of the whole crew. I saw one who had blasphemed, but the divine of the gate. I saw another who had often ridiculed the but he went out as quietly as a lamb. I observed some whom I thought to be the least while many times the worst sinners of the Then I remembered that I had read these words: you into the kingdom of God (Matthew 21:31). As I looked intently, I saw some of those again into the prison, not in the same clothing white robes, looking like new creatures. They spoke with their fellow prisoners, and They told them there was liberty available they could go free. They pleaded with their fellow men, even to I saw them sit down and talk with them until escape, pleading as though it were their own At first, I hoped that the whole group of be free.&quot; But no; the more these men pleaded, the harder That is also how I found it when I myself of sin. I asked the guide where those were taken who He told me that they were taken away to be allowed to be released, it was necessary for He led me toward that place. It was called the solitary cell. I had heard a lot about the solitary system, it would be a dreadful place. Over the door was written this word: Penitence. When I opened the door, I found the room so I thought the place was more fit to be a house My guide told me that it was indeed originally iron door of unbelief that the prisoners persisted Once that door was open, the place became once prisoners within wanted to come back They begged to use it, not as a prison, but lives. He even told me that one man who was dying in heaven there would be no cell of remorse Here, David wrote seven of his sweetest Psalms, a sinner washed the feet of her Lord. But this time, I was regarding it as a prison, also considered it a prison. I learned that every prisoner in this cell He had grown accustomed to mix with the crowd was a Christian because he had been born in must be saved alone if he was to be saved He had been used to going up to the house going there was enough. But now, every sermon seemed to be aimed at I remember to have read in the ancient book And I will pour upon the house of David and of grace and of prayer, and they shall look mourn over him as one mourns for his only afflicts himself over his firstborn. In that day there shall be a great mourning in the valley of Megiddon. And the land shall mourn, each family apart; their wives apart; the family of the house (Zechariah 12:10-12) and apart in his cell, often sighed and groaned, utterances, came some words of unbelief. Truly, if it were not for these, that heavy long ago. It was unbelief that shut the prisoners in, cell, it would have been an oratory for heaven and lamentation. As the prisoner wept for his past, he prophesied come out of this confinement, because sin eternally. It was clear that his fears were foolish, cell, I saw that the door had a knocker inside, it, there was a shining one standing ready Yes, and even more, I perceived that there man would just touch it, even though his finger fly open. Then I noticed that this door had the marks posts. Any man who looked on that blood, lifted that door of unbelief fly open, and he came out in the Lord who had wiped away his sin and I spoke to this remorseful prisoner and asked It may be that through my words, the Lord I learned, though, that no words of mine alone repentance was mingled with just a little who can set the prisoner free. I passed that cell and stopped at another. This one also had an iron gate of unbelief, I heard the warden coming. When he opened the door for me, it creaked This time, I had come into the silent cell. The reprobate confined here was one who said If he could pray, he would be free. He was groaning, crying, sighing, and weeping All he could tell me, as he rolled his eyes pray. I want to plead with God, but I cannot find Back he went and refused to speak again, but In this place, no sound was heard except that All was quiet except the dropping of his tears for mercy in sighs and groans. There was a little table in this cell on which The key was inscribed with these fine words: his sanctuary; from the heavens the LORD beheld to loose those that are appointed to death I thought that if this man cannot speak, God If he cannot plead, God listens to his sighs even the faintest whisper of this poor man's Even if the soul feels it can neither plead prevail. I tried to catch the ear of my poor friend he would not speak. I reminded him that the Book in his cell contained to speak, and I told him that Christ was able I told the man that whether he could pray marks over his door. I reminded him that the publican was justified God, reconcile me, a sinner (Luke 18:13). I pleaded with him to receive the Lord's own to save to the uttermost those that come unto to be gracious and was a God ready to pardon After all this, though, I felt that the Lord Oh, gracious God, set them free now! We moved quickly to a fourth door. The door opened and shut behind me as I stood It was as dark as Egypt during the plague This was the black hole called the cell of I groped as a blind man gropes for the wall. The sounds of sobs and moans guided me to of prayer. I asked him what made his cell so dark. I knew the door was made of unbelief, which why this place was darker than the rest. Then I remembered reading about some who sat bound in affliction and in irons (Psalm 107:10). I asked him if there were any windows in the He said that he was told that there were many ago and he did not know how to open them. He was fully convinced that they could never I felt around for one of the old windows, it emitted darkness. I touched it with my hand, and it felt to had once given light and like those I have He told me it was one of the doctrines of him. The little light that fell upon the poor man Another darkened window was called human depravity. The man said, &quot;Oh, there is no hope for me, My nature is detestable and vile. There is no hope for me.&quot; I pulled the rags from this window and said you for the remedy? It is because you are lost that Christ came Physicians are for the sick, robes for the for the guilty.&quot; He said very little, but pointed to another It was one I had looked through for a long glory. This was the doctrine of particular redemption. &quot;Ah!&quot; he said. &quot;Suppose Christ has not redeemed me with His Suppose He never bought me with His death!&quot; I knocked out some old bricks that had been out the light, and I told the man that Christ one that really did redeem, because the blood all sin (1 John 1:7). I continued on and came to another chamber. This room, marked number five, was large and back and forth. Every man had a chain around his ankle and punishment, they said, for deserters from This encumbrance troubled the prisoners very I saw some of them trying to file their chains Others endeavored to melt away the iron by poor men made little progress at their work. The warden told me that this was the chain was the old propensity to lust and sin. I asked him why they had not been able to He said they had been trying a long time to the way they were trying, since the proper first of all, to get out of prison. The door of unbelief must be opened, and they Lord Jesus, whose pierced hands could open After that, their bonds could be broken off love. I saw a drunkard led out of his prison, rejoicing Prior to that time, he had tried to escape he had broken his pledge and had gone back I saw that man trust in the precious blood, Once he became a Christian, he no longer loved With one stroke of the hammer, the ball was Another man was a swearer who often took God's He knew it was wrong to blaspheme the Most his heart to Christ; then he never blasphemed In almost all prisons where they do not want they have hard labor for them. In the prison I went to see, there was a hard-labor Those who entered it were mostly very proud They held their heads very high and would They were birds with fine feathers and thought being in dreadful captivity, they resolved They believed in the system of human merit, They had saved up a few old counterfeit coins free. However, my bright attendant plainly declared It was amusing, yet sad, to see what different Some of them toiled at the treadwheel. They said they were climbing to the stars, might; and even though they had been laboring they were still confident that they were climbing Others tried to make garments out of cobwebs. They turned wheels and spun at a great rate, on. They believed they would be free as soon as they will. In one place, a group of men labored to build When they had built up to some height, the over. They dreamed that if they could build a large I saw some of them, strangely enough, attempting by sewing them together, but the fig leaves so that they had to start their hopeless toil Some, I noticed, were trying to pump water The veins stood out upon their brows like might, yet without result. As they labored like Samson when he was grinding upon their backs. I saw a ten-corded whip called the Law - the This was laid upon the bare backs and consciences and would not turn to the door of grace to I saw some of them fall down fainting, and water in leaking vessels, called ceremonies. There were some men called priests, who ran They held these cups up to the lips of these give them comfort. As these men fainted, I thought they would At last they could do no more, and they fell spirit. Then I saw that every prisoner who finally merit was taken up by a shining spirit and forever. I thought that these were certainly proud, to being saved by grace. Scripture: Therefore he brought down their was no one to help. Then they cried unto the LORD in their trouble, (Psalm 107:12-13). I rejoiced and praised God that there was I mourned that there were so many who still escape, even though there stood someone with the works of the law shall no flesh be justified For by grace are ye saved through faith and God (Ephesians 2:8). Chapter 2 What a great word salvation is! It includes the cleansing of our conscience soul from all those inclinations to evil which In fact, it accomplishes the undoing of all Salvation is the total restoration of man more than that, because God's salvation makes we fell. It finds us broken in pieces by the sin of - and it heals our wounds. It removes our diseases, takes away our curse, Having done all this, it also lifts our heads be crowned forever with Jesus Christ, the Some people, when they use the word salvation, from hell and admittance into heaven. That is not salvation. Those two things are the effects of salvation. We are redeemed from hell because we are saved, Our everlasting state is the effect of salvation Salvation, it is true, includes all that, it would be wrong for us to think that is Salvation begins with us as wandering sheep. It follows us through all our mazy wanderings. It puts us on the shoulders of the shepherd It calls together the friends and neighbors It preserves us in that fold through life. Then, at last, it brings us to the green pastures where we lie down forever in the presence Scripture: Neither is there salvation in any Did you ever notice the intolerance of God's In ancient times, the heathen, who had different For instance, the king of Egypt confessed gods, and the prince of Babylon acknowledged and real gods. But Jehovah, the God of Israel, put this as have no other gods before me (Exodus 20:3). He would not allow them to pay the slightest nation: Ye shall destroy their altars, break 34:13). All other nations were tolerant of one another, One part of his religion was Hear, O Israel: 6:4). As the consequence of his belief that there his duty to call all pretend gods by nicknames, insult and contempt. The Christian religion is just as intolerant If you ask a Hindu priest the way of salvation, who follow their sincere religious convictions The Hindu priest might give some examples. He says that if Muslims obey Mohammed and doubt, Allah will glorify them in the end. He will say to the Christian missionary &quot;What to disturb us? Our religion is quite capable of carrying Now hear how intolerant the Christian religion (Acts 4:12). The Hindu priest might admit that there is but we admit no such thing. There is no true salvation outside of Jesus The gods of the heathens may approach us with may follow his own conscientious conviction We reply in no such way. Scripture: Neither is there salvation in any given among men in which we can be saved (Acts Now, what do you suppose is the reason for I believe it is just because the Jew and the A thousand errors may live in peace with one them all in pieces. A hundred lying religions may sleep peaceably goes as the truth, it is like a burning ember. It tolerates nothing that is not more substantial carnal error. All the gods of the heathen and all other Therefore, being children of the same father, condemn, and fight each other, but the religion Its pedigree is from on high, and therefore, generation in opposition to God's truth, it with them, for it is truth, and truth cannot It stands upon its own rights and gives to except in the truth, and salvation is only Once I thought there was salvation in good to safeguard my character in integrity and into my heart, sin revived, and I died (Romans That which I thought had been good proved holy, I found myself to have been unholy. I discovered that my very best actions were and that my very prayers needed God's forgiveness. I discovered that I was seeking salvation all my good works from a selfish motive - namely, not be acceptable to God. I found out that I could not be saved by good First, I didn't have any. Secondly, if I had any, they could not save After that, I thought that certainly salvation changing my behavior, and partly by trusting So I labored much again, thinking that if tears of remorse, and a few vows of change, After trudging on for many weary days like I found I had no improvement, because the Scripture: Cursed is every one that continues book of the law to do them (Galatians 3:10). There was still an aching void in my heart It was a void of distress and concern. I was very troubled because I could not achieve Have you tried those two ways of getting to If you have, I trust that the Lord, the Holy because you will never enter the kingdom of first been led to confess that all the other No one ever went to God through the strait other ways. When we find ourselves beaten, frustrated, pure necessity, we take ourselves to the one are made clean. I will tell you that surely there must be I have found salvation in Christ for myself. I will never doubt the salvation of anyone me. Oh, how dark my despair was when I first sought I thought that even if He had mercy on the me. The sins of my childhood and of my youth haunted I tried to get rid of them one by one, but and I could not escape them. Even when I could abandon my sin, the guilt I could not wash myself clean. I prayed for three long years. I bent my knees and sought Him in vain, but At last, blessed be His name, when I had given would destroy me and the pit would open its to me and taught me to cast myself simply It will be the same with you. Just trust Him, because you can be assured If you do not find salvation in Christ, you What a dreadful thing it will be for you if Christ! Scripture: How shall we escape, if we belittle (Hebrews 2:3). Whether we are blatant sinners or not, how first having found an interest in the Savior! O sinner, this should motivate you to go to at the feet of Jesus, you will not find it If the gates of heaven never open to you, be opened for your salvation. If Christ refuses you, you are refused. If His blood is not sprinkled on you, you If He keeps you waiting a little while, still It is worth waiting for, especially when you there is none other, no other way, no other There I see the gate of heaven, and if I must because it is a low gate. There I see it, it is a strait and narrow I must leave my sins and my proud righteousness gate. Come sinner, what do you say? Will you enter through this strait and narrow refuse eternal joy? Come, sinner, and humbly go through it, trusting you in Himself. He will save you now, and He will save you Chapter 3 In all worldly things, people are always awake There is barely a business owner who reads or other with a view to his own personal concerns. If he learns that by the rise or fall of the that part of the day's news will be the most In politics, in everything that concerns worldly way. People will always look out for themselves, consume the majority of their thoughts. In religion, it is otherwise. In religion, people would rather believe abstract the searching questions which examine their You will hear many people admire the preacher searching questions and speaks about specific If we stand and declare general facts, such need a Savior, they will agree with our doctrine. They might even go away delighted with the But how often will our audience gnash their Pharisees with Jesus, they perceive, concerning How foolish this is! If in all other matters we look to our own religion? Certainly everyone must give an account for We must die alone. We must rise at the day of resurrection one judgment seat of God. Each one must either have said to Him, as inherit the kingdom prepared for you from or else he must be appalled with the thundering eternal fire, prepared for the devil and his If there were such a thing as national salvation, in bulk, so that like the sheaves of corn, stubble would be gathered in for the sake so foolish for us to neglect our own personal But if each individual sheep must pass under and individually stand on his own before God that is rational, by everything that conscience command, let us each look to ourselves so miserably cast away from God forever. A warning might be all that we could expect. If during war an army is attacked and destroyed impossible for them to have been aware of in placing their watchmen, but nevertheless we would weep. We would not assign blame to anyone, but we compassion toward that army. On the other hand, if they had posted their and gave the sleepy soldiers every warning destroyed, we would likely regret the loss be compelled to say that if they were foolish them, if they folded their arms in presumptuous of the progress of their bloodthirsty enemy, Their blood must rest upon their own heads. It is the same with you. If people perish and have not been sufficiently may pity them even when they stand before Although the fact that they had not been warned to diminish their eternal miseries which otherwise know it is more tolerable for unwarned Tyre for any city or nation that has had the gospel Scripture: Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto were done in you had been done in Tyre and sackcloth and ashes. But I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable than for you (Matthew 11:21-22). He heard the sound of the shofar and did not But he that takes warning shall deliver his In many places here and around the world, heard. There are multitudes of our fellow creatures who do not know that wrath abides on them. Scripture: He that believes in the Son has Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God They do not yet understand the only way and The trumpet was not only heard, but its warning When the man mentioned in Ezekiel 33:5 heard the enemy was at hand, yet he disregarded In many of your cases, the warning has been If the man heard the trumpet sound once and him, but many of you have often heard the Young man, you have had many years of a godly minister's exhortations. Truckloads of sermons have been exhausted You have had many life-changing experiences Often, when the death bell tolled for your To you, warnings are not unusual things, but Readers, if a person hears the gospel only for rejecting it, but how much more severe it many, many times! I may very well weep when I think of how many many times you have been cut to the heart. You have gone up to the house of God a hundred and you have just added a hundred pieces of A hundred times the trumpet has sounded in away to sin again, to despise Christ, to neglect pleasures and concerns of this world. Oh, how foolish this is - how insane! If someone had poured out his heart to you and if he had spoken to you passionately and would be guilty. But what should we say to you on whom the What will be done to this barren ground that and that has been nurtured with sunshine after What will be done to him who has been rebuked and rebellion? Will he not be suddenly destroyed without Scripture: He that being often reproved hardens without remedy (Proverbs 29:1). Won't it then be said, &quot;His blood lies at head&quot;? I ask you to remember one more thing. This warning that you have heard so often &quot;God never considers man,&quot; an unbeliever once &quot;If there is a God, He would never take notice A Christian minister who was sitting across you will learn the truth of what you have &quot;I don't understand your statement, sir,&quot; &quot;Well, sir, the day may come, when you might You might stretch out your hands to Him, and has said in the book of Proverbs, so He will Scripture: Because I have called and ye refused; for because ye have disregarded all my counsel at your calamity; I will mock when your fear If you are now reading this, then your warning You are not being warned on a sick bed at of salvation. You are being warned in time. You are warned today, and you have been warned If God would send a preacher to the damned If one could go and preach the gospel through a Savior they had despised and of a gospel be taunting their poor souls with a vain attempt But to preach the gospel now is to preach time; behold, now is the day of saving health Warn the boatman before he enters the current, destroys himself. Warn the man before he drinks the cup of poison. Tell him it is deadly, and then if he drinks In the same way, let us warn you before you Let us preach to you while your bones are joints are not loosed. We will have warned you in time, and because The warning was timely. It was frequent. It was earnest and appropriate. It was more than enough to wake you out of It was continually given to you, and yet you to come. Some say, &quot;Well, I did not pay attention to was any need for it.&quot; You were told that there was judgment after reason you should be prepared for that judgment. You were told that by the deeds of the law, 3:20), and that only through Christ can sinners any need for Christ. Well, you should have thought there was a You knew there was a necessity in your inner You spoke very boldly when you stood up as was a still small voice that betrayed your You are well aware that in the middle of the In a storm at sea, you have been on your knees laughed at. When you have been sick and near death, you When you faced difficult circumstances, you mocked. So you have prayed and you have believed it If you did not believe it, you should have There was enough in reason alone to have taught The Book of God's revelation was clear enough rejected God's Book and rejected the voice on your own head. Your excuse is worthless. It is worse than that; it is profane and wicked, own head. &quot;But,&quot; cries another, &quot;I did not like the I did not like the gospel that was preached.&quot; Someone else says, &quot;I did not like certain I thought the pastor preached doctrines that I did not agree with the gospel. I thought the gospel should have been different You did not like the trumpet? Well, God made the trumpet, and God made the However much you did not like what God made, What should it matter to you what the trumpet Certainly if it had been a time of war and of the coming of the enemy, you would not a brass trumpet. I would like to have had it made of silver.&quot; No, the sound would have been enough for you, the danger. It must be the same with you now. It is an foolish excuse that you did not like You should have liked it, because God made You say, &quot;I did not like the man who blew Well, if you did not like one messenger of Could you not find one you did like? You did not like one man's manner because You did not like another's because it was You did not like another's because it was There are plenty of people blowing the trumpet, but you make a poor excuse for each one. If God has sent the men and told them how best of their ability, it is all in vain for do not blow the trumpet exactly the way you We do not find fault with the way a man speaks If the man calls, &quot;Fire! Fire!&quot; we are not particular what tone he of his voice. You would think anyone to be a confused fool he said he did not like the way the man yelled He should have been out of bed and down the Another says, &quot;I did not like the man himself. I did not like the man who blew the trumpet. I could hear him, but I had a personal dislike trumpet sound.&quot; God will say to you in the end, &quot;You fool! Why lose your soul because you did not like By his own master he stands or falls (Romans Your business was with yourself.&quot; What would you think of a man who falls overboard throws him a rope, but the man makes excuses First, he says, &quot;I do not like that rope. I don't think that rope was made by the best There is some tar on it, too. I do not like it.&quot; Next, he says, &quot;I don't like that sailor who I am sure he is not a kind-hearted man, and Then comes a gurgle and a groan, and he is When he drowned, they said that it served If he refused to grab hold of the rope, but when it was a matter of life and death, then So shall it be with you in the end. You are so busy criticizing Christians and You may be so busy criticizing the Word of You may get into hell by criticism, but you You may try to make the most of it. You may be there and say, &quot;I didn't like the I didn't like his manner, and I didn't like not get one drop of water to cool your burning of that world of agony. Many other people say, &quot;Well, I did none of sound would be blown for everybody else, but That is a very common notion. &quot;All men think all men mortal but themselves,&quot; people need the gospel, but not themselves. Let each of us remember that the gospel has &quot;Well,&quot; says another, &quot;I was so busy. I had so much to do that I couldn't possibly What will you say about the man who had so burning house, but was burned to ashes? What will you say of the man who had so much time to send for a physician? You will say, &quot;Then he shouldn't have had If any person in the world has a business of time, let him pose this question to his gain the whole world and lose his own soul? soul? (Matthew 16:26). But it is false. People do have time. It is the lack of will, not the lack of opportunity. You have time, despite all your business, You have time to read your newspaper. Have you no time to read your Bible? You have time to listen to music. Have you no time to pray a prayer? When farmer Brown met farmer Smith in the I can't understand how you find time for hunting. With all that sowing and mowing and reaping occupied on my farm that I have no time for &quot;Farmer Brown,&quot; he said, &quot;if you liked hunting you'd make it.&quot; So it is with Christianity. The reason people can't find time for it is If they liked it, they would find time. Besides, what time does it need? What time does it require? Can I not pray to God while I am at work? Can I not read a passage of Scripture at breakfast Even when I am busy in the business of the casting myself upon the Redeemer's blood and Lack of time is no good excuse. There may be some time required for my private when I grow in grace, I will think it is right The more I can possibly get, the happier I that I have no time. &quot;Well,&quot; says another, &quot;I have plenty of time be too religious in my youth, do you? I am still young. Can't I focus on fun now and sow my wild oats Well, yes, but at the same time, the best a Christian lives. The greatest happiness in all the world is You can have your pleasures, but you will Christian. You will not have things that those of the that are a thousand times better. Consider this sorrowful picture. There, far away in the dark gulf of woe, lies He cries, &quot;Ah, I meant to repent when I finished was up.&quot; &quot;Ah,&quot; says another by his side, &quot;and I thought, to be a master at my trade, I would then think I got enough money to start my own business.&quot; Then a nearby merchant cries out with bitter when I had saved enough to retire on and was Then I would have time to think of God after married and my concerns were settled around What are all my delays worth now, and what pleasures of this world? I have lost my soul over them.&quot; We sometimes get irritated if we or others must be the horror and dismay of those who Friends, if I knew there was one here who wish for him to feel in a dreadful condition he would die before then? Would his promise of a Wednesday repentance The sinner will certainly perish, but in the His blood will be on his own head. When a man is bankrupt and says, &quot;It is not It has been entirely through the dishonesty what I am,&quot; then he takes some consolation However, if you bankrupt your own souls after bankruptcy will lie at your own door. If a great misfortune comes upon us and we cheerfully; but if we have inflicted the trouble Let everyone remember that if he perishes his own murderer. Sinner, you will drive the dagger into your If you despise and reject the gospel, you You are hammering out the chain for your own When you are damned, your mournful reflection I cast myself into this pit, for I rejected I despised the message. I trampled underfoot the Son of Man. I accepted none of His rebukes, and I despised I would not listen to His exhortations, and suicide of my own soul.&quot; Chapter 4 Scripture: For by grace are ye saved through gift of God, not of works, lest any man should Because God is gracious, sinful people are It is not because of anything in them or that it is only because of the boundless love, of God. Pause a moment at the place where the spring Behold the pure river of water of life as the Lamb (Revelation 22:1). How limitless is the grace of God! Who can comprehend it? Like all the rest of the divine attributes, God is full of love, for God is love (1 John God is full of goodness, and the very name Unlimited goodness and love enter into the It is because His mercy endures for ever (Psalm It is because His compassion never fails (Lamentations forgiven. Remember this, or you may fall into error that is the channel of salvation that you source of faith itself. Faith is the work of God's grace in us. No one can say that Jesus is the Christ except Scripture: No one can come to me unless the so faith, which is coming to Christ, is the Grace is the first and last moving cause of is only an important part of the method that We are saved through faith, but it is by grace. Proclaim those words as with the archangel's Faith is the channel through which the water Faith is the aqueduct along which the flood sons of men. It is a great pity when the aqueduct is broken. It is a sad sight to see! How can we obtain and increase our faith? This is a very serious question to many. They say they want to believe, but cannot. A great deal of nonsense is spoken about this Let's be practical now as we deal with it. &quot;What do I need to do in order to believe?&quot; The shortest way is simply to believe, and truthful, you will believe as soon as the The gospel command is clear: Believe on the (Acts 16:31). If you have difficulty with this, take it Tell the great Father exactly what it is that to help you. If I cannot understand a statement in a book, meant. If he is a truthful man, his explanation will Even more will the divine explanation satisfy The Lord is willing to make Himself known. Go to Him and see that this is true. Furthermore, if faith seems difficult, it enable you to believe if you hear frequently to believe. We believe many things simply because we have Don't you find it to be true in your life, you often end up believing it? Some people have come to believe things that I shouldn't be surprised that God often blesses that which is true, for it is written, Faith If I earnestly and attentively hear the gospel, myself believing that which I hear through The Samaritans believed because of what the Many of our beliefs arise out of the testimony For example, I believe that there is such I've never seen it, but I believe there is I believe I will die. I have never died, but many have done so whom I also have a conviction that I will die. The testimony of many convinces me of this Listen, then, to those who tell you how they they have been changed in character. If you will just listen, you will find that If you have been a thief, you will find that of Christ's blood. You who have been impure in life will find been cleansed and changed. If you are in despair, you only have to get some who have been equally in despair will As you listen to one after another of those it, the divine Spirit will lead you to believe. Haven't you heard of the African who was told so hard that a person could walk on it? He declared that he believed a great many would never believe that. When he came to England, one frosty day he out on it. He knew that it was a river, and he was certain it. He could not be convinced to walk on the ice Then he was persuaded, and he trusted himself So perhaps when you see others believe and led to believe. It is one of God's ways of helping us to faith. An even better plan is to note the authority this will greatly help you. The authority is not mine, or you might well It is not even the Pope's, or you might rightly You are commanded to believe on the authority He asks you to believe in Jesus Christ, and The foreman of a certain factory in the north with the fear that he might not be able to His good employer one day sent a card to him It said, &quot;Come to my house immediately after The foreman arrived at his employer's door, roughly, &quot;What do you want, John, troubling Work is done. What right do you have to be here?&quot; &quot;Sir,&quot; he said, &quot;I got a card from you saying &quot;Do you mean to say that just because you and call me out after business hours?&quot; &quot;Well, sir,&quot; replied the foreman, &quot;I don't you sent for me, I had a right to come.&quot; &quot;Come in, John,&quot; said his employer. &quot;I have another message that I want to read He sat down and read these words: Come unto and I will give you rest (Matthew 11:28). &quot;Do you think after such a message from Christ The poor man understood at once and believed, for believing. So do you, dear soul. You have good authority for coming to Christ, Him. If that doesn't convince you to trust in Jesus, believe. The Lord Jesus Christ suffered in our place This is the most blessed fact that we were This is the most suitable, the most comforting, us. I advise you to think much upon it and search Study the four evangelists. Study Paul's epistles. Then see if the message is not so credible If that still doesn't do it for you, then Think of who He is, what He did, where He Think upon Him often and deeply. When He - the Lord and Savior Himself - instructs be convinced. How can you doubt Him? If none of these things cause you to turn about you altogether. Submit yourself to God! May the Spirit of God take away your opposition You are a rebel, a proud rebel, and that is Give up your rebellion, throw down your weapons, I believe no one ever threw up his hands in faith did not become easy to such a person If you cannot believe, it is because you still your own will and your own way. Christ asked, How can ye believe, who take that comes only from God? (John 5:44). A proud self creates unbelief. Yield to your God, and then you will wonderfully Chapter 5 Some people think they must be religious in There are a vast number of people in the world It doesn't look good not to go to church on They think they have done their duty and have they hear their neighbors say, &quot;That man is He is always very regular at his church. He is a very reputable person and worthy of If this is what you seek after in your religion, The Pharisees who sought the praise of others Scripture: Therefore, when thou doest thine as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and men. Verily I say unto you, They already have their But when you have gotten it, what a poor reward Is it worth the effort? I don't believe that the effort people take the trouble at all. I am sure, for my own part, I wouldn't care of me, nor would I do anything that was disagreeable ever walked beneath the stars, however great It is the sign of a groveling, squirming spirit, them to appear respectable. The esteem of others is not worth pursuing, which some people pursue in the poor religion Another set of people pursue the religious I have known businessmen who attended church of those who went there. I have heard of such things as people knowing going to a particular denomination where they Loaves and fishes attracted some of Christ's even to this day. People find there is something to be gotten Among the poor it might be some little charity business, it is the business they think they Verily I say unto you, They already have their unsuspicious. We do not like to suspect our fellow creatures The church does not like to think that someone Christianity for the mere sake of what he Therefore, we let these people easily slip But, oh, at what a price they buy it! They have deceived the Lord's servants for as hypocrites for the sake of a piece of bread. They will be cast out at the end with the out of Eden, with the flaming sword of the tree of life. They will forever look back upon this as the they pretended to be God's people when they of the fold when they were really wolves in There is still another class of people, and them no more. These are the people who participate in Christianity It is astonishing how such a little amount Some people tell us that if in the time of waves, there would be a great calm at once. I have never tried it, and it is likely that large enough to accept such a wide statement. But there are some people who think that they by pouring a little of the oil of a profession It is amazing how significant an effect this I knew a man who got drunk many times a week kept his conscience at ease by regularly going We have heard of a lawyer who could swallow He did not mind crushing the poor or portraying got his money; yet he never went to bed without We have heard of other people, especially or getting drunk or being immoral or taking anything but fish on a Friday as a most fearful They supposed that by fasting on Friday, all forgotten. They want the outward forms of religion to is one of the worst guests to have in your There is no living with him. A guilty conscience is one of the curses of It puts out the sun and takes away the brightness A guilty conscience casts an unpleasant smell landscape, the glory from the flowing river, There is nothing beautiful to the person who He needs no accusing, because everything accuses For this reason, people go through the motions They take the sacrament sometimes. They go to a place of worship. They listen to some Christian music now and They give a little money to a charity. They even intend to leave a portion in their this way their conscience is lulled asleep. They soothe it with religious observances, of hypocrisy. Conscience doesn't wake until he wakes with in purple, but in the next world he lifted a drop of water to cool his burning tongue. Scripture: And he cried and said, Father Abraham, may dip the tip of his finger in water and flame (Luke 16:24). The apostle Paul says, Know ye not that those receives the prize? So run, that ye may obtain it (1 Corinthians There are some people who certainly never even entered in the race. Therefore, it is quite clear that they will without having any justification for expecting There are some who will tell you themselves, It is probably just as well that they don't, and it is better to make no profession at Still, remember that their names are not written win. If someone tells you in business that he makes he is a confirmed dishonest person. If a person makes no profession of being a He has no fear of God before his eyes, he of heaven. He confesses it himself. It is strange that people should be so ready You don't find people in the street willing Generally, they will deny it with contempt. You never find anyone saying to you, &quot;I am You don't hear someone else say, &quot;I am just No. People are not so fast to tell their faults, anyone can be addicted. They say, &quot;I make no claim to be a Christian.&quot; This just means that they do not give God God has made them, but they won't serve Him. Christ has come into the world to save sinners, The gospel is preached, but they will not They have the Bible in their houses, but they They make no profession of doing so. It will not take long for them at the last There will be no need for the books to be for the verdict. They do not profess to be pardoned. Their guilt is written upon their own foreheads, by the whole world as a sentence of destruction You cannot expect to win heaven unless your If there are no attempts made, if you do not then you can just sit down and say, &quot;Heaven I have no part or lot in the inheritance of I cannot say that my Redeemer lives, and I for me from long ago. I will feel its pains and know its miseries, in the afterlife, and if I am not found on one alternative - to be cast away forever Then there is another class of people whose they never started right. A bad start is a sad thing. If in the ancient races of Greece or Rome ahead of time, it wouldn't matter how fast The flag must drop before the horse starts. Otherwise, even if it reaches the finish line So there is something to be observed in the I have known men who run the race of religion because they did not start right. You ask, &quot;Well, how is that?&quot; There are some people who try to suddenly They get it quickly and they keep it for a they did not get it the right way. They have heard that before someone can be of the Holy Spirit, he should feel the weight it, that he should renounce all hope in his Christ alone. They look upon all these things as unpleasant Therefore, before they have devoted themselves performed a good work in them, before they trust in Christ, they make a profession of This often happens in our churches, when people they are saved, but they have never felt the This is just opening an empty store without If a man has nothing to begin with, he might will just be like the crackling of thorns and a lot of light for a little while, but There are many who never think it necessary heart! Again, there are some runners in the heavenly much weight. A light weight, of course, has the advantage. There are some people who have an immensely Scripture: Then said Jesus unto his disciples, a rich man shall enter into the kingdom of What is the reason? Because he carries so much weight. He has so much of the cares and pleasures He has such a heavy burden that he is not mass of strength to enable him to bear it. We find many people who say they are willing They receive the Word with great joy, but the Word. They have so much business to do. They say they must live, but they forget they They have so much business to attend to, they They find they have little time for devotions. Morning prayer must be cut short because their They have no time or strength to pray at night, so late. How can they be expected to think of the things They have so much to do to answer these questions: What shall I drink? And what shall I wear? They read in the Bible that their Father who things if they will trust Him, but they say, They believe that those who rely solely upon fanatics. They say that the best provider in all the but they forget that Unless the LORD builds it; unless the LORD keeps the city, the watchmen It is vain for you to rise up early, to come he shall give his beloved sleep (Psalm 127:1-2). You see two men running a race. One of them lays aside every weight as he He takes off his coat and away he runs. The other poor fellow has a whole load of Then around his loins he has many distrustful future, what will happen to him when he grows He does not know how to place his burden upon See how he grows weary, poor fellow, and how turned the corner, and is coming to the finish It is good if we can cast everything away main business on earth is to serve God, knowing When we leave our business to God, we leave it ourselves. Those who carve for themselves generally cut carve for them will never have an empty plate. He who follows after a cloud will go in the of it will soon find that he has gone on a Scripture: Blessed is the man that is steadfast 17:7). The young lions do lack and suffer hunger, any good thing (Psalm 34:10). Our Savior said, Behold the fowls of the air, gather into barns, yet your heavenly Father Are ye not much better than they? Which of you by taking thought can add one And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they and yet I say unto you, That even Solomon of these (Matthew 6:26-29). We can safely trust in the God of Israel. Scripture: He shall dwell upon the high places: refuge: bread shall be given him; his waters But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his be added unto you (Matthew 6:33). If you carry the weight of this world's cares to carry them and to stand upright under them; impossible. It is good when you sail over the smooth waters will make you want a Savior. It is hard work to die without a hope, and thing indeed. I have seen the old man die when he has declared He stood upon the brink of death and said, O God, I cannot die.&quot; His agony has been fearful when the strong the precipice. He &quot;lingered shivering on the brink, and feared when his foot slipped, he left the solid earth, eternal wrath. You will want a Savior then, when your pulse You will need an angel to stand at your bedside, need a sacred convoy to pilot you through the iron gate, and lead you to the blessed Scripture: Seek the LORD while he may be found; forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his and he will have mercy upon him; and to our For my thoughts are not as your thoughts, LORD. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, my thoughts more than your thoughts (Isaiah O Lord, turn us and we will be turned. Turn us unto thee, O LORD, and we shall be Draw us near and we will run after You. The glory will be yours, for the crown of will have the glory forever and ever. Chapter 6 It is quite certain that there are immense dead outside of church grounds. It is high time that the dead should be removed not worship in the midst of corpses and sit the noxious odor of decaying bodies. We must remember, though, that there are some of the dead from our immediate proximity, of burial which now seems very likely to become We are no longer commonly met by the display In the midst of our crowded cities, we sometimes the dead to their final resting places, but bodies of those who are very dear to us rest of our daily view. I believe the sight of a funeral is a very Whatever harm that could possibly come to the catacomb, the soul can find much food thought. In the great villages, where some of us used came now and then, the tolling of the bell than they had heard in the church for many We remember, as children, how we used to gather not so frequent an occurrence in the midst We remember the solemn thoughts which used heard the words uttered, &quot;Earth to earth, The solemn falling of the few grains of ashes seed in our hearts. Afterwards, when we, in our childish play, sat upon those moss-grown tombstones, we had tongue of death, more eloquent than anything and more likely to stay with us for years Now, however, we see little of death. We have fulfilled Abraham's wish beyond what Scripture: I am a stranger and a sojourner with you, that I may bury my dead out of my It is seldom that we see them, and a stranger these people live forever? I see no funerals among the millions of this Will we just take the wicked man's arm and When he begins to go, especially if he has that whenever he does begin to go, he is not He goes up to the chapel with lack of respect He approaches it as he would a theater or of passing away the Lord's Day and killing He walks cheerfully into the church, but I when he went away than when he entered. He walks home, and his lack of respect and He says, &quot;Surely the Lord God was in that I went to scoff, but as I left, I was compelled and the services of God's house are not all Perhaps you have hoped that spiritual good it all and cast away those thoughts that were He came again the next Sunday, and that time Again, the arrow of the Lord seemed to stick rushing of water. There was a mark for a moment, but his heart blow. As for persuading him to salvation, he was Scripture: Their poison is like the poison that stops her ear, which will not hearken wisely (Psalm 58:4-5). No matter what was said, he would not regard I have seen him come and go until he has become at church. The minister is still preaching, but in his The tears of mercy are still flowing for him against him, but he remains just as he was. There is no change in him except that he has You no longer hear him say that he trembles He is like a horse that has been in the battle. He does not fear the noise of the drum or of the blast of the cannon. He shows up and he hears a faithful warning This is for the wicked.&quot; He hears an affectionate invitation and he When it is a more convenient time, I will So he comes and goes up to the house of God Like the door upon its hinges, he turns in He comes and goes from the place of the holy. It may be, however, that he takes it even Almost persuaded to be a Christian by some at his feet. He thinks he really repents, and he unites He makes a profession of faith, but his heart The sow is washed, but it is still a sow. The dog has been driven from its vomit, but Scripture: It has happened unto them according his own vomit, and the sow that was washed The Ethiopian is clothed in a white garment, The leopard has been completely covered, but Scripture: Can the Ethiopian change his skin (Jeremiah 13:23). The man is the same as he ever was. He goes to the baptismal pool a blind sinner, He goes to the table of the Lord a deceiver; he returns the same. The bread of the Lord's Supper is broken in He receives it, but he comes and he goes the love of it. He is a stranger to true godliness, and as place of the holy. Is it not an unbelievable thing that people I have sometimes heard preachers so earnestly people that I have said, &quot;Surely, they must I have heard them plead as though they pleaded they must feel this.&quot; I have turned around and I have seen the people come from this. These people will be saved.&quot; You have brought your own friends to hear whole sermon that the arrow might reach and said to yourself, &quot;What an appropriate message.&quot; You kept on praying and were pleased to see You said, &quot;Oh, it will touch his heart at But isn't it strange that, though pursued melt? Even though they are thundered at by Sinai's Even if Christ Himself, incarnate in the flesh, Him. They might even treat Him today as their ancestors of the city and would have thrown Him headlong city was built. I have seen the wicked come and go from the seared as with a hot iron. I have seen him come and go from the place a lower millstone, until he was past feeling, to work all uncleanness with greediness (Ephesians Now we are going to change our course. Instead of going to the house of God, we will I have seen the wicked go to the place of We have had glaring instances, even in the been seen sitting as a judge one day, and the other side of that bench, as prisoners I have wondered what the distinct feelings knowing that he who judges has been a lawbreaker A wicked person, a greedy, lustful, drunken some judges. We have known that these people sit and condemn how they went to bed the night before, they do the same things yourself.&quot; Scripture: Therefore, thou art inexcusable, in that which thou dost judge another, thou others doest the same things (Romans 2:1). There have been instances of judges who have or stealing a few pheasant eggs, or some crime robbing the coffers of the bank, embezzling It must be a very strange emotion that passes one person that he knows ought to be executed I have seen the wicked come and go from the not really sins. He believes that the poor must be severely calls the lower classes must be kept in check, those who condemn others while they do the He speaks about checks and restraints, when to him. He talks of cracking down on others and of had been carried out to the letter, he would with a commission from the government. I have seen the wicked man buried in a quiet He is taken quietly to his tomb with as little solemnity he is interred in the grave. Now, listen to the minister. If he is a man of God, when he buries such not hear a single word about the character You hear nothing at all about any hope of He is just put into his grave. The minister remembers well how he came and He remembers well how he used to sit in the There is one who weeps, and the minister stands labor has been lost and how one of his hearers hope. Note how cautiously he speaks, even to the He would like to give her all the hope he gently. She says, &quot;I hope my husband is in heaven.&quot; He holds his tongue. He stays silent. If he is of a sympathetic nature, he will When he speaks about the deceased in his next he refers to him as a doubtful case. He uses him as a warning rather than as an they carelessly waste their opportunities day. Scripture: Then I also saw that the wicked than those who had frequented the holy place As for the pompous funeral, that was ridiculous. We might almost laugh to see the foolishness but as for the still and silent and truthful After all, we should judge ourselves in the That is the way we judge other things. Look at your fields tomorrow. There is a flaunting flower, and there by heads to the sun. Judging them by their leaf, you might prefer But wait until the funeral, when the flower a bundle to be burned. They are gathered into a heap in the field the soil. But the wheat sheaf has a magnificent funeral. &quot;The harvest has come!&quot; is shouted as the for it is a precious thing. Let each of us live in such a way that we I desire to live so that when I leave this goes one who sought to make the world better! However rough his efforts might have been, He sought to serve God, and there lies he My desire would be to have every Christian And devout men carried Stephen to his burial 8:2). Everyone seems to want to live a little longer There is scarcely a rock to be found in all climb, where there cannot be discovered the had any other method of attaining to fame, names there. Go where you will, and you find people attempting This is the reason why many people write in We have a hundred little inventions for keeping the wicked, it is all in vain. He will be forgotten. He has done nothing to make anybody remember Ask the poor, &quot;Do you remember So-and-so?&quot; &quot;He was very difficult to work for. He was not kind, and he always cut us down him.&quot; Their children will not hear his name; they Ask the church, &quot;Do you remember So-and-so? He was a member.&quot; &quot;Well,&quot; says one, &quot;I certainly remember him. His name was on the books as being a member, He used to come and go, but I never could There was nothing spiritual in him. He loved to talk about work and sports and Jesus. There was a great deal of sounding-bell metal I never could discover that he had the foundation No one thinks about him, and he will soon The chapel grows old, and there another congregation men who used to be deacons there, about the in visiting the sick, and about the young useful in the cause of God; but you never forgotten. When he died, his name was struck out of the He was reported as being dead, and all remembrance I have often noticed how soon wicked things Look at Voltaire's philosophy. With all the noise it made in his time, where There is just a little of it lingering, but There was Tom Paine, who did his best to write One would think he might have been remembered, Except among a few here and there, his name All the names of error, heresy, and schism, You hear about Augustine to this day, but Everybody should know about Athanasius and Jesus Christ, but we have almost forgotten those men who aided and abetted him in his Bad men die out quickly, for the world feels They are not worth remembering. Chapter 7 Coming to Christ is a very common phrase in It is used to express the acts of the soul our sins at once and we fly to the Lord Jesus covering and His blood as our atonement. Coming to Christ embraces in it repentance, It sums up within itself all the things that states of heart, such as the belief of the of the soul to the precepts of God's gospel, of salvation in the soul. Coming to Christ is the one essential thing He who does not come to Christ, no matter gall of bitterness and in the prison of iniquity Coming to Christ is the very first effect As soon as the soul is awakened, it immediately at that fact. It then looks for a refuge, and believing and rests in Him. Where there is not this coming to Christ, Where there is no awakening, the soul is dead Being dead, it cannot enter into the kingdom Scripture: No one can come to me unless the Where does this inability lie? First, it does not lie in any physical defect. If moving the body or walking with the feet certainly we have the physical power to come I remember hearing a very foolish Antinomian had the power to walk to the house of God That man was just foolish. He could plainly see that as long as a man him to walk to the house of God as to the If coming to Christ includes the utterance that respect. If a person is not mute, he can say a prayer It is as easy for someone to sing one of the obscene song. There is no lack of physical power in coming All that can be needed with regard to bodily part of salvation that consists in that is any assistance from the Spirit of God. This inability to come to Christ on our own I can believe the Bible is true just as easily As far as believing on Christ is an act of Christ as I am able to believe on anybody If his statement is true, it is pointless I can believe the statement that Christ makes any other person. There is no deficiency in the mind. It is as capable of appreciating the guilt the guilt of assassination. It is just as possible for me to exercise exercise the thought of pride. I have all the mental strength and power that is needed in salvation at all. No, there isn't anyone so ignorant that he for rejecting the gospel. The defect, then, does not lie either in the to call the mind. It is not any lack or deficiency of the mind, of the mind that is the very essence of man's Through the fall and through our own sin, and corrupt, that it is impossible for him God the Holy Spirit. Now, in trying to explain how the nature of consider this illustration. You see a sheep. How willingly it feeds upon the vegetation! You've never seen a sheep desire meat. It could not live on lion's food. Now bring me a wolf. Ask me whether a wolf can eat grass and whether as the sheep. I answer no, because its nature is contrary You say, &quot;Well, it has ears and legs. Can't it hear the shepherd's voice and follow Certainly. There is no physical reason why it cannot Therefore, I say it cannot do so. Can't it be tamed? Can't its ferocity be removed? It could probably be subdued to the point be a marked distinction between it and the The reason why man cannot come to Christ is or his mere power of mind is concerned, but neither the will nor the power to come to Let me give you a better illustration. You see a mother with her baby in her arms. You put a knife into her hand and tell her She replies very truthfully, &quot;I cannot.&quot; As far as her bodily power is concerned, she There is the knife, and there is the child. The child cannot resist, and the mother has its heart; but she is quite correct when she As a mere act of the mind, it is quite possible the child, and yet she says she cannot think She is telling the truth, because her nature which her soul revolts. Simply because she is that child's parent, It is the same with a sinner. Coming to Christ is so obnoxious to human forces are concerned (and these have but a come if they would want to. It is strictly correct to say that they cannot Christ draws them. Man is by nature blind within. The cross of Christ, so laden with glories him, because he is blind and cannot see its Talk to him of the wonders of creation, show him behold the glories of a landscape; he But if you talk to him about the wonders of security of the believer in Christ, and tell he is quite deaf to all that you say. You are like one who plays a pleasant tune, He is deaf and has no comprehension. Do you find your power equal to your will? You could say, even at the throne of God Himself, your willingness. You are willing to be devoted to God. It is your will that your soul should not Jesus Christ, but you find that you cannot the help of the Spirit. If the awakened child of God finds a spiritual dead in trespasses and sin? If even the advanced Christian, after thirty and yet powerless, does it not seem more than believed would find a need for strength as There is another argument. If the sinner has strength to come to Christ, understand those continual descriptions of Holy Word. A sinner is said to be dead in trespasses Will you agree that death implies nothing &quot;Surely a corpse is quite unable as well as &quot;So then, if I cannot save myself and cannot If people say this, their doom will be on There are many things you can do. To be found continually in the house of God To study the Word of God with diligence is To renounce your outward sin, to forsake the life outwardly, is all within your power. You do not need help from the Holy Spirit to truly come to Christ is not in your power Your lack of power is no excuse when you have rebellion against God. Your lack of power lies mainly in your stubborn Suppose a liar says that it is not in his a liar so long that he cannot stop. Is that an excuse for him? Suppose a man who has indulged in lust for have so enveloped him like a great iron net Would you accept that as an excuse? Truly it isn't one at all. If a drunkard has become such a drunkard that establishment without stepping in, do you No, because his inability to change lies in or conquer. The thing that is done and the thing that from the root of sin. They are two evils which cannot excuse each So what if the Ethiopian cannot change his It is because you have learned to do evil Instead of letting you sit down and make excuses, of your apathy, so you may be startled and Remember that to sit still is to be damned We tie up all our ends now and conclude by the doctrine, and we hope it is an agreeable &quot;Well,&quot; someone says, &quot;if what this man teaches You know I have been trying for a long time, save himself. I believe he can, and I intend to persevere. If I am to believe what you say, I must give It will be a very good thing if you do. Remember, what you are doing now is building act of love if I shake your house a little Let me assure you, in God's name, if your own strength, it will not be good enough for Nothing will last to eternity except that Unless the everlasting God has done a good fall apart at the last day. It is all in vain for you to be a faithful say your prayers. It is all in vain for you to be honest with if you hope to be saved by these things. It is all in vain for you to trust in them. Go on and be as honest as you like, keep the I would not dissuade you from these things. God forbid! Grow in them, but do not trust in them. If you rely upon these things, you will find most. If there is anything else that you have found grace, the sooner you can get rid of the hope it is for you, for it is a wicked delusion A spiritual heaven must be inhabited by spiritual by the Spirit of God. &quot;Well,&quot; cries another, &quot;I have been sitting I could, whenever I decided, repent and believe, it off from day to day. I thought I could come one day as well as mercy upon me,' and believe, and then I would I thought I simply had to make a decision Now you have taken all this hope away from I feel amazement and horror taking hold of I am very glad. This was the effect I had hoped to produce, more. When you have no hope of saving yourself, you. As soon as you say, &quot;Oh, I cannot come to Lord, draw me; help me,&quot; I will rejoice over He who has the will, even though he has not heart, and God will not leave him until the However, careless sinner, learn that your Remember that you are entirely in the hand You have sinned against Him, and if He wills You cannot resist His will or prevent His You have deserved His wrath, and if He chooses your head, you can do nothing to prevent it. If, on the other hand, He chooses to save you lie as much in His hand as a summer moth He is the God whom you are grieving every Does it not make you tremble to think that of Him whom you have angered and enraged? Doesn't this frighten and alarm you? If it does, I rejoice, because this may be your soul. Oh, tremble to think that the God whom you or your condemnation entirely depends! Tremble, and kiss the Son lest he be angry, is kindled in a little while (Psalm 2:12). Chapter 8 The plan of salvation is simply declared: shalt be saved (Acts 16:31). For you who have violated all the precepts His vengeance, there is still mercy proclaimed, of the Lord shall be saved (Romans 10:13). This is a faithful saying and worthy of acceptation to save sinners, of whom I am first (1 Timothy All that the Father gives me shall come to cast out (John 6:37), for he is able also God by him, seeing he ever lives to make intercession All that God asks of you is that you will trust your souls in the hands of Him whose Is it not a remarkable thing that the proclamation acceptance of all? One would think that as soon as it was preached perish but have eternal life (John 3:15), lay hold of Jesus Christ, and look to His But such is the desperate evil of our nature that this message is despised, the invitation are many who are enemies of God by wicked They are enemies to the God who preaches Christ. They are enemies to Him who sent His Son to It is strange that it should be this way, This is why there is the need for the command You might not be wealthy, but this is no barrier not exempted from His grace those who have In fact, if there is any distinction made, benefit: unto you is this word of saving health And the poor have the gospel preached to them You have no faith, no integrity, no good works, Come and be welcomed at the marriage feast Scripture: Whosoever will, let him take of You are not only poor, but you are impaired. There was a time when you thought you could help, when you could perform good works, attend but now you are incapacitated. The sword of the law has cut off your hands, You say with bitter sorrow: Dares not appear before Thy throne.&quot;3 You feel that even when you want to do good, You are wounded. You have given up, as an abandoned hope, all incapacitated and your arms are gone. But you are worse off than that, for if you still walk your way there along the road by as in the hands. You feel that you cannot believe, that you of the gospel. You feel that you are utterly powerless in to God. I stand before you to lift up the blood-stained Scripture: Whosoever shall call upon the name Whosoever will, let him take of the water There is yet another class. You are double-minded. You are swaying between two opinions. Sometimes you are seriously inclined, and away. What little progress you do make in Christianity You have a little strength, but it is so little The word of this salvation is sent to you, Even though you waver between two opinions, shall ye halt between two opinions? If the LORD is God, follow him; but if Baal, Consider your ways (Haggai 1:7). Set thine house in order, for thou shalt die Because I will do this, prepare to meet thy Hesitate no longer, but make the decision There is another group of people - the blind. You cannot see yourselves, you think yourselves bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter, darkness Scripture: Woe unto those that call evil good and light for darkness; that put bitter for (Isaiah 5:20). You blind souls who cannot see your lost condition, as it is, and who will not be persuaded to to you I am sent. To you, too, who cannot see the Savior, who Him (Isaiah 53:2), who see no excellence in in serving God, no delight in being His children, Scripture: Go out into the highways and hedges be filled (Luke 14:23). Here we bring in all classes and conditions in the highway, the woman trudging about her traveler. All of these are in the highway, and they There, away in the hedges, lie some poor souls seek to find some little shelter for their This is the universal command - compel them Philip Melanchthon said it well: &quot;Old Adam It would be as futile for a little child to his will as it would be for me to try to lead I see the great mountain of human depravity Who art thou, O great mountain before Zerubbabel? Thou shalt be reduced to a plain (Zechariah Unconverted, unreconciled, unregenerate men Permit me, first of all, to confront you in duty. The king of heaven sends a gracious invitation He says, For I do not desire the death of turn yourselves, and ye shall live (Ezekiel Then come, shall the LORD say, and we shall shall be made as white as snow; if they were (Isaiah 1:18). Let me tell you what the king has done for He knew your guilt, and He foresaw that you He knew that His justice would demand your and that His justice might have what it required died. Will you glance at this picture for just a You see a man on His knees in the garden of Next, you see that sorrowful sufferer tied until His shoulder bones are seen like white Then, you see the same man hanging on the firm, dying, groaning, bleeding. You hear Him say, It is finished (John 19:30). Jesus Christ of Nazareth has done all of this His justice, pardon sin. The message to you is this: Believe on the (Acts 16:31). That is, trust Him, renounce your works and alone, who gave Himself for sinners. Do you turn away? You tell me it means nothing to you, that listen to me some other time. You must go your way now and tend to your Stop! I was not told to merely tell you and then No. I am told to compel you to come in. Permit me to say - and to this God is my witness you would comply with this command of God. Do you ignore it? Do you still refuse it? Then I must change my tone for a minute. I will not just tell you the message and invite further. Sinner, in God's name, I command you to repent Do you ask me where I get my authority? I am an ambassador of heaven. I command you to believe in the Lord Jesus authority of Him who said, Go ye into all He that believes and is baptized shall be (Mark 16:15-16). Do you turn away and say you will not listen Then I will change my tone again. Let me tell you from my own soul what I know I, too, once despised Him. He knocked at the door of my heart, and I He came to me, times without number, morning He examined my conscience and spoke to me When at last the thunders of the law prevailed cruel and unkind. Oh, I can never forgive myself that I thought I had when I went to Him. I thought He would strike me down, but His wide in mercy. I fully thought that His eyes would dart lightning Instead, they were full of tears. He fell upon my neck and kissed me. He took off my rags, clothed me with His righteousness, while in the house of my heart and in the because His son whom He had lost was found, I exhort you, then, to look to Jesus Christ Sinner, you will never regret it. You will have no desire to go back to your You will go out of Egypt and into the Promised and honey. You will find the trials of Christian life As for the joys and delights of being a child it in days to come. If you will taste and see that the Lord is find that He is not only good, but better I do not know what arguments to use with you. I appeal to your own self-interests. Would it not be better for you to be reconciled What are you gaining by opposing God? Are you happier because you are His enemy? Answer, pleasure seeker. Have you found delights in that cup? Answer me, self-righteous man. Have you found rest for the sole of your foot Oh, you who go about to establish your own speak. Have you found it to be a happy path? Ah, my friend, Why do ye spend money for that which does not satisfy? Hearken diligently unto me, and eat ye that in fatness (Isaiah 55:2). I exhort you by everything that is sacred and eternal, flee for your lives, do not look Genesis 19:17), do not stay until you have Christ, that blood which cleanses us from Are you still cold and indifferent? Will the blind man refuse to allow me to lead Will not the weak man refuse to allow me to Must I use some stronger words? Must I use some other compulsion to compel From the grey-headed elderly person down to hold on Christ, your blood will be on your If there is power in man to bring his fellow Holy Spirit), that power will be exercised. I urge you to stop and consider. Do you know who it is you are rejecting? You are rejecting Christ, your only Savior. Scripture: For no one can lay another foundation (1 Corinthians 3:11). Neither is there salvation in any other, for among men in which we can be saved (Acts 4:12). I cannot bear that you would reject Jesus, The day is coming when you will want a Savior. It will not be long before the weary months decline. Your pulse will fail you, your strength will must face each other. What will you do in the swelling of Jordan Deathbeds are fearful things without the Lord It is a fearful thing to die in any way. Even he who has the best hope and the most to laugh at. It can be a fearful and intimidating thing the mortal to the immortal, from time to eternity, iron gates of death without the sweet wings skies. It will be a difficult thing to die without I cannot help thinking of you. I can imagine you near death, and I picture cries, knowing you are dying without hope. I cannot bear the thought that I am standing face and saying, &quot;This man despised Christ I think about what bitter tears I will weep that I could to help you, and how those eyes say, &quot;You were not serious with me. You amused me and preached to me, but you You did not know what Paul meant when he said, though God did exhort you by us; we beseech God&quot; (2 Corinthians 5:20). I picture myself standing at the throne of As the Lord lives, the day of judgment is Do you believe that? You are not an infidel, so your conscience Perhaps you may have pretended to do so, but You feel there must be a day when God will I can picture you standing in the midst of on you. It seems to you that He is not looking anywhere He summons you before Him, reads your sins, eternal fire, prepared for the devil and his I cannot bear to think of you in that position. It seems like every hair on my head will stand Since I must stand before my Judge in the of my ministry unless I beg with many tears to Jesus Christ and receive His glorious salvation. Does this not help? Are all our pleadings lost upon you? Do you turn a deaf ear? Then again, I change my tone. Sinner, I have pleaded with you as a man pleads If it was for my own life, I could not speak yours. Therefore, if you ignore these pleas, I have to come. You will not always have such warnings as A day is coming when the voice of every gospel because your ear will be cold in death. There will be no more threatening. Instead, it will be the fulfilment of the There will be no promise, no proclamations brings peace. Instead, you will be in the land where the it would be futile. I instruct you, then, to listen to this voice If not, God will speak to you in His wrath I have called and ye refused; I have stretched ye have disregarded all my counsel and rejected I will mock when your fear comes upon you Sinner, I warn you again. It is only a short time before you may have Come, let the promise of judgment influence I do not threaten to alarm you without cause, happen may drive you to the place where God Have I exhausted all that I can say? No, I will come to you again. Tell me what it is that keeps you from Christ. I hear someone say, &quot;It is because I feel That cannot be, my friend; that cannot be. &quot;But, sir, I am the chief of sinners.&quot; Friend, you are not. The chief of sinners died and went to heaven His name was Saul of Tarsus, afterwards called He was the chief of sinners. I know he spoke the truth. &quot;No,&quot; you still say, &quot;I am too vile.&quot; You cannot be worse than the chief of sinners. You must be at least second worst. Even supposing you are the worst now alive, But suppose you are the worst; isn't that The worse a person is, the more reason he The poorer you are, the more reason you should Christ does not want any merits of yours. He gives freely. The worse you are, the more welcome you are. Let me ask you a question. Do you think you will ever get better by stopping Christ? If so, you still know very little about the No, the longer you stay away, the worse you Your hope will grow weaker. Your despair will become stronger. The nail with which Satan has fastened you will be less hopeful than ever. Come, I urge you. There is nothing to be gained by delay, but &quot;But,&quot; cries another, &quot;I feel that I cannot My friend, you never will believe if you look Remember, I don't invite you to faith, but You ask, &quot;What is the difference?&quot; Just this. If you first of all say, &quot;I want to believe Your first inquiry must be, &quot;What is this Faith will come as the consequence of that Our first business doesn't have to do with Come, I beg you, to Calvary's mount and see Behold the Son of God, He who made the heavens Look to Him. Is there not power in Him to save? Look at His face so full of compassion. Is there not love in His heart to prove that O sinner, the sight of Christ will help you Do not believe first and then go to Christ, Go to Christ without any faith, and cast yourself I hear another cry, &quot;Sir, you do not know I have rejected the Lord.&quot; I do not know, and I do not want to know. All I know is that my Master has sent me to me now. You may have rejected a thousand invitations; You have been up to the house of God, and I cannot let you continue on in such empty If you have lived so many years disregarding should not disregard Him now. Did I hear you whisper that this was not a Then what must I say to you? When will that convenient time come? Will it come when you are in hell? Will that time be convenient? Will it come when you are on your deathbed? Will it come then? Or when the burning sweat is scalding your - will those be convenient times? Will it be a convenient time when you are of the tomb? I have no authority to ask you to come to The invitation is, Today if ye will hear his (Hebrews 3:15), for the Spirit says Then come, if your sins were as scarlet, they shall be crimson, they shall become as wool (Isaiah Why would you put it off? It may be the last warning you will ever have. You may never again have such an earnest discourse You may not be pleaded with as I plead with You may go away, and God may say, He is given He will throw the reins upon your neck, and be certain damnation and swift destruction. Is it all in vain? Will you not come to Christ now? Then what more can I do? I have only one more thing I can try, and I am permitted to weep for you. I can pray for you. You can scorn my attempts if you like. You can laugh at the preacher and call him He will not rebuke you. He will not bring an accusation against you Your offence, as far as he is concerned, is that the message you are rejecting is a message you by the voice of another who loves you. You may play your soul away with the devil, no importance, but there is at least one who I'll say again that when words fail us, we the arms with which gospel ministers compel I heard just the other day about a young man to Christ. He became acquainted, however, with an unbeliever, in a daily course of sin. I saw his father's poor pale face. I did not ask him to tell me the story himself, and open a wound. I fear, sometimes, that a good man's gray Young men, you do not pray for yourselves, You will not think of your own souls, but I have been at prayer meetings where I have could not have prayed with more earnestness children than if they had been seeking their Is it not strange that we would be ready to and yet you still have no thought for your Chapter 9 Cain was of the wicked one and slew his brother The way of Cain (Jude 11) is not hard to describe. Cain is too proud to offer atonement for his He presents a bloodless offering. He hates the obedience of faith. He murders the faithful Abel. Observe the way of Cain, and beware, you proud, the same way, for the steps are few from self-righteous is not far beyond that. The seed of every wicked act can be found and it is a great mercy that it does not show You who boast of your own merits, see the is the full-blown development of your rebellious Lord, deliver us from all pride and boasting, the cross of Christ. There are many people whose brother's blood 4:10). There is the seducer. He spoke with flattering words and talked his tongue, for lust was in his heart. He came to a beautiful temple as a worshipper, that to be the haunt of demons which once Such men are received into society and are woman, the harlot, can only hide herself beneath No one will make excuse for her sin, but the and reputable man. He can fill places of trust and positions finger of scorn at him. Sir, the voice of that poor fallen sister's the day of judgment her damnation shall be All the shame into which you have plunged Among the dreadful sights of hell, two eyes like the eyes of serpents, burning their way &quot;You deceived me and lured me to the pit,&quot; &quot;Your arms dragged me down to hell, and here author of my eternal ruin.&quot; There is one sinner who can look upon this Who is it who has gone down to the pit? You over there, who is it who died just a The woman who loved you as she loved her own an angel. Shall I say it before God and to your face? You ruined her! And what next, sir? You cast her off as though she were only dirt, heart. Once she was there, she fell into despair, her god. Her despair led to dreadful consequences and She has gone, and you are glad about it, because Sir, you will hear of it! As long as you live, her spirit will haunt It will follow you to the filthy joy which On your deathbed she will be there to twist out of your body and drag it down to the hell You spilled her blood, the blood of her who to be an angel's sister - and you pulled her God save you! If He does not, your damnation will be sevenfold. Oh, you son of the devil, what will your doom Are these scorching words? Not half as scorching as I would like to make I would send them hissing into your soul if with the hope that though you cannot make turn from the error of your ways to seek the iniquity. Then there are those who educate youth in These are Satan's captains and marshals. They are strong men with corrupt hearts, who the buds of evil swelling and ripening into We have known some such men who possess an but delighted in it in others. They patted the boy on his back when he uttered he committed his first theft. Satan has his Sunday-school teachers. Hell has its missionaries who travel sea and times more a child of hell than they are themselves. Most of our villages are cursed with one such in any big city on which one or more such Wretch, have you sought to entangle them in Have you, like the spider, thrown first one until you have them safely in your coils to If so, then the voice of your brother's blood At the judgment, this will be a witness that of the blood of souls ruined by your sinful Beware, you who hunt for the precious life! Then there are some corrupt people who, if stumbling blocks in their way. As soon as they discover that there is a little sneer, and point their finger. How often I have seen this in a husband who a prayer meeting, or in the young man who of God's Holy Spirit and begins to read the his ways! This happens too frequently in our great establishments and many laugh at him and insult him. They are not content to perish themselves. Like dogs pursuing a deer, so the wicked will You who are the enlisting sergeants for the as happy as when you set traps for souls to you. Heed the warning, to prevent God's avenging the sword that will strike your neck and cause have tried to ruin the servants of the living Then there is the infidel. He is the person who is not content to keep publish his wickedness. He climbs to the top of the platform and blasphemes takes Scripture to make it the subject of for comedy. If this is you, be careful, for there will be the chief sufferer! What should I say of those men who are far whose names we see engraved on plaques on They will go from town to town, and never something that is pure, and lovely, and of make your cheeks drain of their color if you They are dreadful things against the Most has taken hold upon me because of the wicked I address such people, because the voice of The young men you have deluded, the working lullaby you have sung, the souls you have you have deceived - all these will stand up fingers at you, they will demand your swift doom. And what shall I say of the unfaithful preacher? He is the slumbering watchman of souls, the he was called by the Holy Spirit to preach He is the man upon whose lips people's ears a priest at God's altar to teach Israel God's He is the man who performed his duties half-asleep, also slept and thought Christianity was not What shall I say of the pastor with an unholy pulpit has made the most meaningful things He has blunted the edge of the sword of the the day of battle. What should I say about the preacher who has and humorous stories when he ought to have He has been more concerned about fancy sermon of God. He has preached a dead morality when he ought the serpent in the wilderness. What should I say about those who have dwindled and division in churches of Christ that were What should I say about the men who have joked whose lives have been so devoid of holy passion truth to be a lie, Christianity a performance, and eternity a joke? Among all who will need eternal compassion, minister of Christ will be the most to be What did I say? No, rather he is the most contemptible, the Surely, every thunderbolt will make his brow his conscience as its mark. If I must perish, let me suffer any way but by a slumbering style of ministry, by a lack How will such men answer for it at the throne agreeable words, the whitewashing of men with should have dealt with them honestly as in Sirs, if we never play the part of the Sons our ears forever and ever, and we will be without end. In hell we will have this lament peculiar feel. We testified of what we did not know. People did not receive our witness, for we go down, richly deserving it, to the very But the voice of your brother's blood cries not an infidel lecturer, even though you have taught heresy, and even though you have spread If your life is unholy, your brother's blood &quot;Oh,&quot; says one, &quot;If I sin, I sin to myself.&quot; Impossible! The deadly contagious illness might say, &quot;I Cholera might say, &quot;My deadly breath is for Your example spreads. You, like the leper, leave uncleanliness on The very atmosphere which surrounds you breeds What others see you do, they learn to do. Some may even rival you and exceed you, but learn to read in hell's book better than you, your door, because they learned the elements I am afraid many people never look at their You cannot help being leaders and teachers. If in your own house you are a drunkard, your I have heard of a man who flogged his son he did it. We know instances of people who feel as if see them grow up like themselves, but how Your practice must and will influence your all with whom you come into contact in the Do not think, if you are an employer, that life without being affected by that knowledge. There may be some among them who have an inward but I know of hardly anything more dangerous come into contact with one whom they look the arts of sin and a leader of damnation Be careful; if not for yourselves, then for will cry unto God from the ground. What should the cry be against open sinners It would be an awful thing to pray for a man's of who do so much harm while they live, that freely. I know a village where there lives a man who There is a malicious look upon his face that smirk that causes courage to cower. He is a wretch, so well taught and so deeply wherever he goes he finds no one a match for conclusions that he draws. He is a man who is a deadly upas tree, dropping I once thought that I would half pray that but one must not do that. Yet, if he were gone, the saints might say, Just as the saints will say &quot;Hallelujah!&quot; smoke of her torment goes up forever (Revelation might be said when those people against whom God from the ground go to their doom, for people of the earth drunk with the wine of What can we do to be rid of the past? Can tears of repentance do it? No. Can promises of change make a blank page where No. Nothing we can do removes our sin. But can't the future make up for the past? Cannot future zeal wipe out past carelessness? Cannot the endeavor of our life yet to come life that is past? No. The blood of our brothers has been shed, and The harm we have caused cannot be undone! Souls that are lost through us cannot now The gates of hell are so shut that they can There is no restitution we can make. The redemption of the soul is precious, and The sin cannot be washed away by repentance What then? There would be hopeless despair for every - the blood of One called Jesus. It cries from the ground, too, and the voice Father, forgive them (Luke 23:34). I hear a voice that says, &quot;Vengeance, vengeance, enough to make everyone clothe himself in up, &quot;Mercy, mercy, mercy.&quot; The Father bows His head and says, &quot;Whose The voice replies, &quot;It is the blood of your The Father lays His thunder aside, sheathes to you sons and daughters of men, &quot;Come unto Turn, turn from your ways. I will pour out My Spirit upon you and you Repent and believe the gospel.&quot; Hate the sin that is past and trust in Jesus He is able to completely save all who come God's dear Son, cleanses us from all sin (1 Flee, sinner, flee! The avenger of the blood that you have shed With feet that are winged and a heart that Run, man, run! The city of refuge is before you. It is there along the narrow way of faith. Fly, fly, for unless you reach that city before blow will be your everlasting ruin. Do not linger! Do not stop and look at the field on the left, if you linger there! Do not stop at that tavern on the right. Stop for none of these things! He comes! Hear his footsteps on the hard highway! He comes, he comes, he comes now! Oh, that you may pass through the entrance Trust the Son of God. Your sin will be forgiven, and you will have Chapter 10 How fond our Master was of the sweet title If He had chosen, He might always have spoken Father, the Wonderful, the Counselor, or the He has a thousand wonderful titles, as magnificent to use them. To express His humility and let us see the burden is light, He does not call himself as the Son of Man who came down from heaven. Let us learn a lesson in humility from our Never let us pursue great titles or proud After all, what are they but empty distinctions He who has the most is still a worm and his If Jesus called Himself the Son of Man when humble ourselves with others of low position, due time be exalted. I think, though, that there is a sweeter thought It seems to me that Christ loved manhood so Since it is a high honor, and indeed the greatest Son of Man, He is inclined to display this of honor upon the chest of manhood and put Son of Man - whenever Jesus said that, He children. Yet there is perhaps a lovelier thought still. Jesus Christ called Himself the Son of Man It was a huge step down for Him to come from It was a mighty act of condescension when of cherubim to mingle with the common herd But even though it was condescension, He loved You will remember that when He became incarnate, When God brought forth the only begotten into God worship Him.&quot; It was proclaimed in heaven. It was not done as a dark secret that Jesus would know about it. All the angels of God were brought to witness upon a virgin's breast and lying in a manger. Ever afterwards, and even now, He was never He never looked back upon His incarnation it as a joyous remembrance that He had become All hail, blessed Jesus! We know how much You love us. We understand the greatness of Your mercy use the sweet name which acknowledges that flesh, and that You are one of them, a brother I will tell you the people Christ will save. He will save those who are lost to themselves. Just imagine a ship at sea passing through The ship leaks, and the captain tells the If they are far away from the shore and have as long as they have any strength remaining. They seek to keep down the devouring element, as long as they have power to use the pumps. Finally, they see the ship cannot be saved. They give it up for lost and leap into the The boats are floating for many days, full &quot;They are lost,&quot; we say, &quot;lost out at sea.&quot; But they do not think so. They still cherish a hope that perhaps some up. There is a ship on the horizon, and they strain They lift each other up and wave a flag. They tear their clothes to make something passes away. Night comes and they are forgotten. In the end, the very last mouthful of food them. They lay down their oars in the boat and lay You can imagine then how well they understand As long as they had any strength left, they As long as they could see a sail, they felt While there was still a dry biscuit or a drop for lost. Now the biscuit is gone and the water is gone; still. They lie down to die by each other's side, They should have been dead days earlier if ceased. Now they know what it is to be lost, and across death-knell pealing forth that awful word: Lost! Lost! In a spiritual sense, these are the people Sinner, you too are condemned. Our father Adam steered the ship off course, even to her deck now. No matter how hard you may pump your own morals of her depravity low enough to prevent the We see that human nature is lost; it has gotten She is a fair boat called the boat of Good In her, you are striving to row with all your fails you. You say, &quot;I cannot keep God's law. The more I strive to keep it, the more I find I climb, but the higher I climb, the higher When I was in the plains, I thought the mountain Now I seem to have ascended halfway up its There it is, higher than the clouds, and I However, you gather up your strength and you You row once more, and in the end, you are So you lay down your oars and realize that works. Still, you have a little hope left. There are a few small pieces of dry biscuit You have heard that by participating in certain your dry biscuit. Ultimately, that fails you, and you find that other outward rite can make you clean, for Knowing this, you still look out on the horizon. You still hope that there might be a sail of despair, you think you detect in the distance may comfort you. It passes, however, like the wild phantom It is gone, and you are left with the burning waters of a bottomless hell beneath you. With fire in your heart and emptiness in that down in despair and cry, &quot;Lord save me, or Is that your condition, my friend, or has If so, Christ came into the world to seek no one else. He will only save those who can claim for in their own souls what it is to be lost in and all self-hope. I can look back to the time when I knew that I thought that God intended to destroy me. I imagined that because I felt myself to be vengeance. I even said to the Lord, &quot;Have You set me Am I a sea, or a dragon, that thou settest (Job 7:12). Have You sewed up my iniquities in a bag and (Job 14:17). Will You never be gracious? Have You made me to be the center of all sorrow, forever?&quot; I was a fool! I didn't know then that those who have the bless - that we have the sentence of death ourselves, but in Him who died for us and Can you say that you are lost? Was there a time when you traveled with the Have you left the caravan with your companions sand - a hopeless arid waste? Do you look around you and see no helper, trust? Is the vulture circling in the sky, screaming upon your flesh and bones? Is the water bottle dry and does the bread Have you consumed the last of your dry dates from the bottle? Are you now without hope, without trust in Listen! The Lord your God loves you. Jesus Christ has bought you with His blood. You are, and you shall be His. He has been seeking you all this time, and wilderness. Now He will take you upon His shoulders and angels will be glad over your salvation. Such people must and will be saved, and this came to save. Those He came to save, He will save. You - you lost ones who have lost all hope Even though death and hell would stand in accomplish His plan. For the most part, though, Christ finds His He finds them often in the worst of tempers He softens their hearts, awakens their consciences, but they would never come to Him unless He Sheep go astray, but they do not come back Ask the shepherd whether his sheep come back, They will wander, but they never return.&quot; If you ever find a sheep that came back on who will come to Christ on his own. No; it must be sovereign grace that seeks When Christ seeks them, He saves them. Having caught him at last, like the ram of not take a knife and slay him as the sinner and begins to comfort and save. The Christ who seeks you today and who has will save you. He will first find you when you are emptied When you are stripped, He will bring you the When you are dying, He will breathe life into When you feel yourselves condemned, He will and your transgressions like a thick cloud Do not fear, you hopeless and helpless souls, you. He will save you here, save you living, save and give you - even you, the lost ones - a Chapter 11 We can learn nothing of the gospel except No single truth of the gospel is ever truly and tried and proved it, and its power has I heard of a naturalist who thought himself history of birds, yet he had learned all he as seen a bird either flying through the air He was just a fool, although he thought himself There are some men who, like him, think of They might even claim to have a doctor's degree Yet, if we got to the root of the matter and of these things of which they talked, they I know these things in the letter, but not I understand them as a matter of theory, but Be assured that just as the naturalist who knew nothing, so the person who pretends to and power of its doctrines or felt the influence all the knowledge he pretends to have is just There are some sciences that can possibly Christ crucified can only be learned by the No one can know the magnitude of sin until rod for sin except its condemnation in our to us with a terror that may be felt. Some people imagine that the gospel was devised, of God towards sin. How mistaken is that idea! There is no more harsh condemnation of sin The blood of Jesus Christ, his Son cleanses There lies the darkness; here stands the Lord What will He do with it? Will He go and speak to it and say, &quot;This This darkness is just a little spot&quot;? No. He looks at it and says, &quot;This is terrible This is an exceeding great evil.&quot; Will He cover it up? Will He weave a mantle of excuse and wrap No. Whatever covering there may have been, He Spirit of Truth is come, He will convince bare, and probe the wound to the bottom. Then what will He do? He will do a far better thing than make an of it. He will cleanse it all away and remove it of His own blood. Nor does the gospel in any way give us hope way loosened. Some imagine that under the old dispensation placed burdens upon them that were too heavy They think that Christ came into the world men, something that would be easier for them or that if they break, would not result in This is not so. The gospel did not come into the world to Scripture: For verily I say unto you, Until one tittle shall pass from the law until all What God has said to the sinner in the law, If He declares, The soul that sins, it shall gospel is not contrary to the testimony of If He declares that whoever breaks the sacred also demands blood for blood, eye for eye, solitary jot or tittle of its demands, but law itself. Do you reply that Christ has certainly softened I reply, then, that you don't know the mission That is no softening of the law. It is, as it were, the grinding of the edge make it far sharper than it seemed before. Christ has not put out the furnace; rather Before Christ came, sin did not seem to be exceedingly sinful to me, and all its dreaded Someone might say, &quot;Surely the gospel, in Doesn't it soften the punishment of sin?&quot; No. Ezekiel says, The soul that sins, it shall He sits down. Now comes Jesus Christ, the man of a loving What does He say regarding the punishment Our Lord Jesus Christ was all love, but He Never has anyone spoken like this man, it of the lost (John 7:46). No other prophet but Jesus was the author Scripture: He will burn up the chaff with (Matthew 3:12) (Matthew 25:46) is never quenched. (Mark 9:44) about the punishment of sin and the effect to tremble there than you would have done had been in the background to conclude the No, the gospel of Christ in no sense whatsoever The proclamation of Christ is the same as of the house of Israel and Judah is exceeding Our sins are immense. Every sin is significant, but there are some substantial than others. There are crimes that an ordinary person could I could go to great lengths in describing that it has invented. It is amazing how the ingenuity of man seems crimes. Surely there is not the possibility of the will invent it before long, for man seems wisdom in the discovery of ways to destroy Maker. There are some sins that show an evil extent it is shameful to speak and disgraceful to But the blood of Jesus Christ, his Son cleanses There may be some sins of which we cannot of Christ cannot wash away. Blasphemy, however profane; lust, however have gone into theft and robbery; breach of it may have run - all these may be pardoned Christ. In all the long list of human sins, though one sin that is unpardonable. No sinner has committed that one sin if he because once that sin is committed, the soul never afterward desires to find peace with Therefore I declare to you, trembling sinner, whatever sin you may have committed, however creatures, though you may have surpassed the offenders in the wicked race of sin - the sin away. I do not speak lightly of your sin, for it of the blood of Christ. As considerable as your sins are, the blood Your sins are like great mountains, but the Upward this blood will prevail, and the top Whatever I may not be, one thing I know I and often miserable on account of that guilt. The Scripture says, This is a faithful saying Jesus came into the world to save sinners &quot;And when thine eye of faith is dim, Thus, at His footstool, bow the knee, Let me put my entire trust in the bloody sacrifice I will not depend upon my prayers, my good my thinking, my Bible reading, nor any of I will desire to have good works, but I will &quot;Nothing in my hand I bring, If there is any power in Christ to save, I If there is an everlasting arm extended by was God over all things, blessed for all the displayed before the throne of God as the the throne of God breaks and the pillars of Chapter 12 The kiss is a token of enmity removed, of You will remember that when Jacob met Esau, long estranged - fear had dwelt in the heart in the heart of the other - when they met, They fell upon each other's neck and they It was the kiss of reconciliation. The very first work of grace in the heart of His affection and to prove His reconciliation In this same way, the father kissed his prodigal Before the feast was spread, before the music his son's neck and kissed him. Our part is to return that kiss. Just as Jesus gives the reconciling kiss on and to prove by that deed that we are reconciled Sinner, until now you have been an enemy of You have hated His Sabbaths and neglected You have despised His commandments and cast You have, as much as was in your power, opposed You have loved the wages of sin and the ways What do you have to say for yourself? Does the Spirit now strive in your heart? Then I urge you to yield to His gracious influence Throw down the weapons of your rebellion, and cast away the sword of your rebellion. Be His enemy no longer, for rest assured that With arms outstretched and ready to receive your stubbornness, and with a heart moved me and says, Kiss the Son (Psalm 2:12); be The very message of the gospel is the ministry We speak as God has commanded us. Scripture: Now then we are ambassadors for we beseech you in Christ's name, be ye reconciled Is this a difficult thing we ask of you, that best friend? Is this a harsh law, like the commands of when God asks you to simply shake hands with We do not ask you to be the friends of death with them. We pray that grace may lead you to reject Him who is incarnate love and infinite mercy. Sinners, why will you resist Him who only Why treat with contempt Him who loves you? Why trample on the blood that bought you and your salvation? Mankind is utterly ruined and destroyed. He is lost in a wild waste wilderness. The goatskin bottle of his righteousness is a drop of water in it. The heavens refuse him rain, and the earth Must he perish? He looks above, beneath, around, and he discovers Must he die? Must thirst devour him? Must he fall upon the desert and leave his No, for the Scriptures declare that there For with thee is the fountain of life; in Ordained in eternity past by God in solemn takes its spring from the deep foundations It gushes up from the depth which lies beneath, eye has not seen and the lion's cub has not The deep foundations of God's government, of His divine nature - these are the mysterious forth which will do good to us. The Son dug this well and bored through massive springing upward. Using His cross as the grand instrument, He He has descended to the lowest depth and has grace of God, the living water that can save the thirst of dying men and women. The Son has commanded this fountain to flow He has removed the stone that covered the on high, He stands there to see that the fountain its floods will never be dry and its depths This sacred fountain, established according opened by Christ when He died upon the cross, and peace to poor sinners who are dead in There is a water of life. Pause awhile and look at its floods as they side and satisfying people's thirst. Let us look with joy. It is called the water of life, and it richly God's favor is life, and in His presence there Scripture: In thy presence is fullness of for evermore (Psalm 16:11). This water is God's favor, and consequently, This water of life is intended to bring God's come and drink, you will indeed find this God's grace, you inherit God's love, and you God stands in a fatherly relation to you. He loves you, and His great infinite heart It is not living water simply because it is death. The sinner knows that he must die because He has committed sins so tremendous that God God would cease to be just if He didn't punish When conscious that he has been very guilty, Maker, feeling in his soul that his doom is be cast away from all hope, life, and joy. Come, you who are doomed because of your sin. This water can wash away your sins, and when for the innocent must not be punished. Here is water that can make you whiter than Even though your heart is as black as Kedar's you and wash you to the whiteness of perfection of King Solomon. These waters fully deserve the name of life, Unpardoned we die, we perish, we sink into If pardoned, though, we live, we rise, we This ever-gushing fountain will give life pardon of their sins. &quot;But,&quot; one might say, &quot;I have a longing within I feel sure that if I am pardoned there will I have ever heard of or have ever seen or I have within me an aching void that the world &quot;There was a time,&quot; says another, &quot;when I and the pleasures of people of the world were I have pressed that olive until it no longer contaminated, thick dregs that I can now obtain. My joys have faded. The beauty of my lush valley has become as I can no longer rejoice in the music of this O soul, I am glad that your cistern has become with this world, they never look out for the Until the god of this world has utterly deceived only living and true God. Listen, you who are wretched and miserable. Here is living water that can quench your Come and drink, and you will be satisfied, for him in Christ now, and enough forever. The believer is not someone who has to pace no delight.&quot; He is not someone whose days are weary and such a spring of joy, such a fountain of consolation, Put him in a dungeon and he will find good Place him in a barren wilderness, and he would Drive him away from friendship, and he will brother (Proverbs 18:24). Take away all his shade and shelter, and he Destroy the foundation of his earthly hopes, sure, his heart will still be firm, trusting There is such a fulness in Christianity that happiness was until I knew Christ. I thought I did. I warmed my hands by the fire of sin, but When I tasted the Savior's love just once heaven begun below. Oh, if you knew the joys of true Christianity, Christ, surely you could not stand at a distance. If you could catch just a glimpse of the believer your wildest fun and your greatest joy to You see that it is the living water. It is the water of life, because it satisfies that we can never find in anything beneath In the name of Almighty God, stay away from Christ. Away with you, away with you! Christ sprinkles His blood upon the way, and road clear. Let him come. Do not stand in his path. Make his way straight before him. Level the mountains and fill up the valleys. Make a highway straight through the wilderness Life freely. Let him come! Oh, that is a precious word of command, because Scripture: God said, Let there be light, and He says, Let him that is thirsty come, and He must be willing to come. Scripture: And the Spirit and the bride say, And let him that hears say, Come. And let him that is thirsty come; and whosoever (Revelation 22:17). Sinner, remember - God says, Come. Is there anything in your way? Remember, He adds Let him come. He commands everything to move out of your Will you come? Chapter 13 Human beings are very reluctant to think poorly make excuses for sin. They say, &quot;If we had lived in better times, If we had been born into this world with better If we had been placed in better circumstances, The majority of people, when they seek the the right place. They will not blame their own nature for it but they will lay the blame anywhere else. Some of them find fault with their peculiar &quot;If,&quot; says one, &quot;I had been born rich instead &quot;If,&quot; says another, &quot;I had been born into would not have been exposed to such temptations position is so unfavorable to piety, that anything but what I ought to be.&quot; Others turn around and find fault with the They say that the whole structure of society They tell us that everything in government, that melts people into societies is all so are what they are. They believe they must have a revolution and holy! Many, on the other hand, throw the blame on If they had not been brought up by their parents to certain things in their youth, they would It is their parents' fault. They lay the sin at their father's or their Or it is their physical constitution. Hear them speak for themselves: &quot;If I had person I would be! But with my stubborn disposition, it is impossible. It is all very well intentioned to talk to and my personality is such that I couldn't Others go a great deal farther and throw the They say, &quot;If the minister had been more passionate If it had been my privilege to sit under sounder preached, I would have been better.&quot; Some lay the blame at the door of professors more consistent, if there were no hypocrites You are putting the saddle on the wrong horse The blame is in your heart, and nowhere else. If your heart were renewed, you would be better. Until that is done, if society were remodeled professors of Christianity were seraphs, you Having less excuse, you would be doubly guilty, destruction. However, people will always make the excuse be different too. If they see the truth, though, they know that If a preacher came from another world to preach came from heaven. Even the rich man did not ask that he or any to preach (see Luke 16:19-31). Spirits that are lost and given up to unutterable if they did, they could not preach the truth had not traveled themselves. The occurrence of a damned spirit upon earth We have no reason to suppose that such a thing The preacher from another world, if such a He must be a Lazarus who had lain in Abraham's Imagine for a moment that such a one had descended Suppose that we heard that a revered spirit burst from his grave clothes, lifted up his of Life. What a rush there would be to hear him preach! What place in this wide world would be large How many thousands of pictures would be published as an angel fresh from heaven? Faraway nations would soon hear the news, passengers bringing men and women to hear returned from the great unknown. How you would listen, and how solemnly you Your ears would pay attention to his every His faintest syllable would be recorded and - the utterances of a man who had been dead We might want to suppose that if such a thing thinking that surely the congregations attracted Many hardened sinners would be led to repent, off a decision would be made to decide, and Stop! Even if the first part of the imaginary dream If someone rose from the dead, sinners would preaching than through the preaching of any God might bless such preaching to salvation no more power in the preaching of the risen is of feeble man today. Scripture: And he said unto him, If they do they be persuaded, even though one rose from If the testimony of one man who had been raised the gospel, would not God have used it before It is undoubtedly true that some have risen We find accounts in Holy Scripture of some the instrumentality of prophets, were raised fact, that not a single one of them spoke they saw while they were dead. Oh, what secrets he could have told us, who Do you not suppose that his sisters questioned Do you not think that they asked him what throne of God, if he had been judged for the entered into rest? They may have asked, but it is certain that Had he given an answer, we would know it now. Tradition would have cherished the record. Do you remember when Paul preached a long a young man in the third-floor window named He fell asleep, fell down, and was taken up Paul came down and prayed, and Eutychus was Did Eutychus get up and preach after he had No. The thought never seems to have struck a single Paul went on with his sermon, and they sat They did not care one bit about what Eutychus to tell them than Paul had. Of all the ones who by divine might have been don't have one secret told or one mystery Even if someone would rise from the dead and would be no more near believing than now. Here comes Mr. Infidel Critic. He denies the evidences of the Bible that are required to believe that he is either his choice between the two. He dares to deny the truth of Holy Scripture are untrue and false. Do you think that one who had risen from the believe? What? When God's whole creation having been ransacked to the truth of revelation? When the whole history of buried cities and that the Bible was true? When every strip of land mentioned in the of the prophecies of Scripture? If people are still unconvinced, do you suppose convince them? No. I see the critical blasphemer already armed Listen to him: &quot;I am not quite sure that you Sir, you profess to be risen from the dead, You say you have been dead and have gone to My dear man, you must have been in a trance. You must bring proof from the obituaries that The proof is brought that he was dead. &quot;Well, now you must prove that you were buried.&quot; It is proved that he was buried, and it is took up his dry bones and cast his dust in &quot;That is very good. Now I want you to prove that you are the identical &quot;Well I am. I know I am. I tell you as an honest man, I have been to &quot;Well then,&quot; says the unbeliever, &quot;it is not It is ridiculous to suppose that a man who again. I don't believe you, and I tell you so straight That is how people would answer him. Instead of having only the sin of denying the guilt of denying yet another; but they inch nearer to being convinced. Certainly, if the wonder were done in some of the world, I can imagine that the whole tales and such traditions have been accepted do not believe them.&quot; Even if an entire church graveyard would come who denies the truth of Christianity, I do in all the graveyards in the world to convince Unbelief would still cry for something more. It is like the horse leech mentioned in Proverbs It cries, &quot;Give, give!&quot; Prove a point to an unbeliever, and he wants Even if it's as clear as the light of noon he still will not believe it. In fact, he does believe it, but he pretends Certainly the dead man's rising would not The most numerous class of unbelievers are There are a great number of people in this else except think. At least they think enough to open their shops They think enough to know a little about the like how their merchandise is selling, or to be given to them for nothing at all, except To them, following Jesus is a matter of very They will say that the Bible is very true things do not concern them much. They suppose they are Christians because they They must be Christians, or at least they ask what real Christianity is. They sometimes go to church, but it does not One minister might contradict another, but right. One minister might be far from another in to them. They pass over Christianity with an unorthodox They say, &quot;God Almighty will not ask us what taught what the Bible says.&quot; They do not exercise good judgment at all. Thinking is such hard work for them that they If someone were to rise from the dead tomorrow, They would go and see him once, just as they skeleton or Tom Thumb. They would talk about him a good deal and Some winter evening, they might possibly read themselves to consider whether his testimony No. They are so set in their ways that they could If a dead person raised to life were to come feel would be that they were somewhat frightened, never exercise their dull brains or stir their Even if one would rise from the dead, the be affected. If Moses and the prophets have failed, no you to the footstool of divine grace and make All that can be done now is that God the Spirit cannot awaken you, reason cannot awaken you, cannot bring you to Christ. Nothing will ever do it except God the Holy Chapter 14 Strange to say, the majority of those who the world to have been saved, while many of whom we would have expected to see in heaven. There is one who as a child found himself His mother often wept over him, and cried With his fierce spirit that could not be bridled of fierce anger, she said, &quot;My son, my son, Surely, you will smash law and order to pieces He grew up. In his youth he was wild and shameless, but a new man, altogether changed. He was no longer like what he was before, He sat at his mother's feet and cheered her mild, humble as a little child, and obedient You say, wonder of wonders! Here, though, is another man. He was a beautiful child and often talked Often, when his mother had him on her knee, He was a great example and a wonder of piety As he grew up, tears rolled down his cheeks He could scarcely bear to hear of death without Sometimes his mother found him alone in prayer. What is he now? He has become a slave to sin. He has become a corrupt, desperate lowlife. He is deeply entrenched in all types of wickedness, than others could have ever imagined. His own evil spirit, once confined, has now the lion in his manhood, just as he used to This is very often the case. Some abandoned, wicked fellow has had his and renounced his vile sin, while some nice heard the same sermon, and if there was a She still continues just as she was, having 2:12). God has taken the low things of the world very roughest of men, in order that He may but that saving comes of the LORD alone (Jonah With sinners, this doctrine is a great battering I will give you an example. The sinner in his natural condition reminds castle into which he has fled. There is the outer moat, a second moat, and After that, there is the dungeon and main The first moat that goes around the sinner's &quot;Ah!&quot; he says, &quot;I am as good as my neighbor. I have always paid my debts; I am no sinner. I give to some charities. I'm a good respectable gentleman indeed.&quot; Well, when God comes to work with him, to moat. As they go through it, they cry, Salvation for if it is of the Lord, how can it be of But when that is gone, he has a second entrenchment &quot;Well,&quot; he says, &quot;I will not trust in my good confirmed, and I religiously take the sacrament. That will be my trust.&quot; &quot;Over the moat! Over the moat!&quot; And the soldiers go over again, shouting, The second moat is dried up, and the trust Then the soldiers come to the first strong The sinner, looking over it, says, &quot;I can I can believe whenever I like. I will save myself by repenting and believing.&quot; Up come the soldiers of God and His great to the ground, crying, Salvation is of the Your faith and your repentance must all be nor repent of sin. The castle is now taken. The man's hopes are all cut off, and he feels The castle of self is overcome, and the great of the Lord&quot; is displayed upon the battlements. But is the battle over? Oh, no. The sinner has withdrawn to the tower in the tactics. &quot;I cannot save myself;&quot; he says, &quot;therefore, There is no salvation for me.&quot; This second part of the castle is as hard down and says, &quot;I cannot be saved. I must perish.&quot; But God commands the soldiers to take this Lord. It is not of man, but it is of God. Scripture: He is able also to save to the (Hebrews 7:25). This sword, you see, cuts two ways. It cuts pride down, and then it cleaves the If anyone says he can save himself, it cuts says he cannot be saved, it dashes his despair saved, seeing that salvation is of the Lord. What is the opposite of this truth? Salvation is of God; therefore, damnation If any of you perish, the blame will not lie If you are lost and cast away, you will have of conscience yourself. You will lie forever in hell and reflect, I have made a suicide of my soul. I have been my own destroyer, and I can lay Remember, if you are to be saved, you must you have lost yourselves. Scripture: Turn ye, turn ye from your evil (Ezekiel 33:11). Chapter 15 Most of the people prior to Elijah thought too. For this reason, the worship of both was quite The great majority of people did not reject bow before Baal wholly. As polytheists, believing in many gods, they each could have a share in their hearts. &quot;No,&quot; said the prophet when he began, &quot;this You can never make them one. They are two contradictory things which cannot Instead of combining the two, which is impossible, a vast difference.&quot; &quot;I will build in my house,&quot; said one of them, Baal there. I am of one position. I believe them both to be God.&quot; &quot;No, no,&quot; said Elijah, &quot;it cannot be so. They are two, and they must be two. These things are not one, but two distinct You cannot unite them.&quot; Many say, &quot;I am worldly, but I am religious, I can go worship God on Sunday. I can also go to the races any other time. I go, on the one hand, to the place where in every room of every description. At the same time, I say my prayers most devoutly. Is it not possible to be a good Christian Can I not hold with the hounds as well as May I not love God and serve the devil, too, my heart to neither?&quot; We answer, &quot;No. They are two positions. You cannot do it, because they are distinct Mark Antony yoked two lions to his chariot, yoked together: the Lion of the tribe of Judah These can never go together. You can hold two opinions in politics, perhaps, you are of one opinion or the other and act However, you cannot hold two opinions in the If God is God, serve Him and serve Him fully. If this world is god, serve it and do not If you think the things of the world are the grieve your conscience, and run into sin. But remember, if the Lord is your God, you You must have one thing or the other. No one can serve two masters (Matthew 6:24). If you serve God, He is your master. If you serve the devil, he will be your master, Be wise and do not think that the two can Many a respectable deacon thinks that he can to take advantage of the poor, and still be He is a liar to God and to man! He is no saint. He is the very chief of sinners. Many a very excellent woman is received into and thinks herself one of the elect, but is She is a slave of mischief and sin, a tattler, She enters into other people's houses and of those with whom she comes in contact. Still she believes that she is the servant No, my lady, this will not work. The two can never be served completely. Serve your master, whoever he is. If you do profess to be a Christian, be so If you are not a Christian, do not pretend If you love the world, then love it, but cast The double-minded person is the most despicable He is the follower of Janus, who wears two He can look with one eye upon the (so-called) a little money to the Tract Society, the Bible has another eye over there, with which he which I do not care to mention, but which Such a person is worse than the most corrupt, judge. He might not seem worse in his open character, honest enough to go through with what he professes. Tom Loker, in Uncle Tom, was pretty near the slaveholder, who professed religion, with stand most any talk of yours, but your pious After all, what's the odds between me and 'Tain't that you care one bit more or have meanness, wanting to cheat the devil and save And your getting religious, as you call it, Run up a bill with the devil all your life, How many do the same every day in London, They try to serve both masters, but it cannot The two things cannot be reconciled. God and greedy gain, Christ and Belial - these There can never be an agreement between them, Why would you even want to do so? Two opinions, said the prophet. He would not allow any of his hearers to profess Scripture: And Elijah came near unto all the two opinions? If the LORD is God, follow him; but if Baal, And the people did not answer him a word (1 It was a day to be remembered when the multitudes and the solitary prophet of the Lord came priests of the false god. We could look upon that scene with the eye it rich with interest. Instead of doing that, however, we will look and see if we cannot improve our lives by There are three kinds of people upon that First, we have the devoted servant of Jehovah, On the other hand, we have the decided servants prophets of Baal. However, the great majority of people that They were those who had not fully determined fathers, or Baal - the god of Jezebel. On the one hand, their ancient traditions hand, their interest in pleasing their leaders before Baal. Therefore, many of them were secret and half-hearted of Baal. All of them at this time were wavering, or Elijah does not address his sermon to the He will have something to say to them later, deeds of blood. Nor does Elijah have anything to say to those they are not there. His discourse is directed specifically to &quot;Now,&quot; says the prophet, &quot;if the Lord is God, Let your conduct be consistent with what you If you believe the Lord to be God, live it Be holy, be prayerful, trust in Christ, be Give your whole heart to God and follow Him. If Baal is god, then follow him, but do not Let your conduct back up your opinion. If you really think that the foolishness of a fashionable life, a life of frivolity and honey from none, is the most desirable, then If you think the life of the pleasure seeker is to be desired, if you think his pleasures Go all the way with them. If you believe that to cheat in business is dishonest goods here. Do not deceive the public. If you intend to be a real Christian, follow to be worldly, go all the way with the world. Let your conduct follow your opinions, and Live out your beliefs, whatever they are. But you don't dare to do so, because you are God, as others do. Your conscience will not let you. How long will you halt between two opinions? You middle-aged men, you said when you were follow Jesus. Let us sow our wild oats while we are young, of the Lord.&quot; Now you have come to middle age and are waiting retire; then you think you will serve God. Sirs, you said the same when you began your Therefore, I demand of you, &quot;How long will How much time do you want? Young man, you said in your early childhood, will seek God when I become a man.&quot; You have passed that day. You are a man, and more than that, and you How long shall ye halt between two opinions? Many of you have attended church for years. You have been under the conviction of the the tears from your eyes and said, &quot;I will of heart.&quot; Now, you are just where you were then. How many more sermons do you need? How many more Sundays must be wasted? How many warnings, how many sicknesses, how that you must die? How many graves must be dug for your family How many plagues and pestilences must ravage How long shall ye halt between two opinions? I pray that you would answer this question drop from the glass saying, &quot;When the next finds you unrepentant still. You say, &quot;When the glass reaches a certain No. It is pointless to talk this way, because it had begun to run low. You may find yourself in eternity when you and turning to God. The prophet cries, If the LORD is God, follow 18:21). In so doing, he states the basis of his practical Let your conduct be consistent with your beliefs. Another objection is raised by the crowd. &quot;Prophet,&quot; someone says, &quot;you come to demand You say, 'Follow God.' Now, if I believe God to be God, and that He has to lay claim to my beliefs.&quot; Now, pay attention to how the prophet puts He says, If the LORD is God, follow him. The reason I claim that you should put action God is God! God has a claim upon you, as creatures, for Someone replies, &quot;What profit would I have Would I be happier? Would I do better in this world? Would I have more peace of mind?&quot; No. Those are secondary considerations. The only thing for you to consider is, If Not if it is more advantageous to you, but A worldly religious person might plead for might be the best for this world and best Not so with the prophet. He says, &quot;I do not base it on that reasoning. Instead, I insist that it is your bound duty Him and obey Him simply because He is God. I do not tell you it is for your advantage; that aside from the question. I demand of you that you follow God if you If you do not think He is God, if you really His pretended godhead will be your plea, and if He made you, I demand that you serve Him. If it is He who puts breath into your nostrils, If God is really worthy of worship, and you follow Him, or else deny that He is God at How long shall ye halt between two opinions? I will tell them. You will halt between two opinions, all of fire. Fire was not what these poor people who were Elijah proclaimed that the God that answers I imagine that I hear some of them saying, be God. We need rain badly enough.&quot; &quot;No,&quot; said Elijah, &quot;if rain would come, you nature, and that would not lead you to decide.&quot; I tell you, nothing that comes from God and cause you who are undecided to decide. God may surround you with His care, influences, He may surround you with frequent warnings these things will never cause you to make It is not the God of rain, but the God of There are two ways in which you who are undecided You who have decided to follow God will need You who have decided to follow Satan will and must dwell forever in eternal burning. However, you who are undecided need something You will have one of two things: you will you to decide, or your decision will be made Scripture: Answer me, O LORD, answer me, that God and that thou shalt convert their heart (1 Kings 18:37) Charles H. Spurgeon - A Brief Biography 1834, in Kelvedon, Essex, England. He was one of seventeen children in his family His father and grandfather were Nonconformist Due to economic difficulties, eighteen-month-old who helped teach Charles the ways of God. Later in life, Charles remembered looking in Foxe's Book of Martyrs as a young boy. Charles did not have much of a formal education He read much throughout his life though, especially Even with godly parents and grandparents, It was not until he was fifteen years old He was on his way to his usual church, but getting there, he turned in at a little Primitive Though there were only about fifteen people 45:22: Look unto me, and be ye saved, all Charles Spurgeon's eyes were opened and the He began attending a Baptist church and teaching He soon preached his first sermon, and then pastor of a small Baptist church in Cambridge. The church soon grew to over four hundred nineteen, moved on to become the pastor of The church grew from a few hundred attenders They built an addition to the church, but congregation. The Metropolitan Tabernacle was built in London Pastor Spurgeon preached the simple message who wanted to hear God's Word preached in On January 9, 1856, Charles married Susannah They had twin boys, Charles and Thomas. Charles and Susannah loved each other deeply, that they faced in life, including health They helped each other spiritually, and often Richard Baxter, and other Puritan writers. Charles Spurgeon was a friend of all Christians, it didn't please all who heard him. Spurgeon believed in and preached on the sovereignty holiness, salvation through Jesus Christ alone, Word of God. He spoke against worldliness and hypocrisy ritualism, and modernism. One of the biggest controversies in his life Charles Spurgeon believed that some pastors by compromising with the world or the new He said that some pastors were denying the alone, and the truth of the Bible in other Many pastors who believed what Spurgeon condemned resigned from the Baptist Union. Despite some difficulties, Spurgeon became He opposed slavery, started a pastors' college, clothe the poor, had a book fund for pastors Charles Spurgeon remains one of the most published His sermons were printed each week (even in the year were re-issued as a book at the end The first six volumes, from 1855-1860, are next fifty-seven volumes, from 1861-1917 (his his death), are known as The Metropolitan He also oversaw a monthly magazine-type publication wrote many books, including Lectures to My Gate, Advice for Seekers, John Ploughman's Christian Workers, Cheque Book of the Bank and more, including some commentaries, such Treasury of David. Charles Spurgeon often preached ten times people during his lifetime. He usually preached from only one page of He read about six books each week. During his lifetime, he had read The Pilgrim's When he died, his personal library consisted However, the Bible always remained the most Spurgeon was able to do what he did in the his own advice - he met with God every morning in communion with God throughout the day. Charles Spurgeon suffered from gout, rheumatism, He often went to Menton, France, to recuperate He preached his final sermon at the Metropolitan on January 31, 1892, at the age of fifty-seven. He was buried in Norwood Cemetery in London. Charles Haddon Spurgeon lived a life devoted His sermons and writings continue to influence the world.