Heis gonna take you to the past To play the shitty games that suck ass He rather have - a buffalo Take a diarrhea dump in his ear He rather eat the rotten asshole of a roadkill skunk and down it with beer Heis the Angriest gamer youive ever heard Heis the Angry Nintendo Nerd Heis the Angry Sega Atari Nerd Heis the Angry Video Game Nerd What happens when you take an 80is comedy film like Bill and Teds Excellent Adventure and turn it into a NES game? Two guys are struggling to past their history course. So they go back in time in a phone booth to get the aid of famous historical figures. Itis dumb, but itis great entertainment, and a videogame adaptation seem like a good idea. It had fun characters, time travel and adventure. So how could you fuck it up? You want to know? (metal rock music plays) Thatis how! Yep, like almost every movie adaptation on the NES, it was made by LJN, the masters of shit, the unholy rainbow stamp of death! The plot of the game is that rebels have gone back in time, taken famous historical figures and put them in different time periods. The goal is to find them all and put them back into their correct time periods. Who are these itime rebelsi and why do they want to do this? Well guess what? Theyire never referred to again. Yeah they are just for your imagination. Man, wouldnit it be funny if we put Thomas Edison in Ancient Egypt? nlaughter- How about Galileo in the Jurassic period? nlaughter- Weire assholes! Well the reason youire trying to return these ihistorical dudesi to their proper time is to prevent history from being altered. Specifically, to keep their rock band together the Wild StallionsO -sigh- ReallyO? Thatis the whole big deal, not to prevent some major catastrophe, but instead a fucking concert? The first thing that happens when you start the game, youire given a phone book with the numbers of the historical dudes. If you try calling any of these people, nothing happens. Not that any of these people would have phone numbers anyway. Thereis no in game instructions. NoO you are left on your own to figure this out! Like igood luck asshole!i Oh look! A blinking red number under the number! I guess Iim supposed to call that, huh?! Thanks for making me flip through all those fucking pages! Next thing, you are in what they call a time circuit. where you have to shoot the phone booth across the digits to the phone number youire trying to call. You think they overthought this a little? How about just a cut scene of the phone booth spiraling into a time warp? Again there are no instructions. I assume Iim supposed to go hit all the digits in order and the pink ring is to help guide the phone booth. Iim just guessing here. Whatis the point of this?! Why canit you just start the game?! Could youive just dial the number and go straight to the stage!? And speaking of that, what is the point of dialing the number? How about selecting the page with the person you want to get to! But that doesnit matter either because Rembrandt is always the first one you call! Why couldnit it be like the Megaman games where you can play whatever stage you want?! Here, everything must be done in the order the game wants you to. So all this page turning and dialing and time circuit bullshit has no purpose what-so-ever! WaitO itis automatic? You justO do nothing? Yeah, if you wait long enough the phone booth with go through the circuits on its own. The drawback is if you let it do that, it costs coins. If you run out of coins, you are far past fucked! The game is over. So you obviously want to save as many as possible. Thatis the only advantage of blasting yourself outside the circuits, free time travel. In the later stages the time circuits gets harder . You have to avoid the skulls because they take your coins, and where are the rest of the circuits by the way? Isnit there supposed to be one more digit? Where is it? Youive got to be kidding me! Itis all the way out there! Who would know to do that?! And if thatis not cryptic enough, you have to hit one of the pink skulls. One of them takes your coins, and the other one makes the last digit appear. So itis a 50 percent chance youill get the right one! Thatis there is some supreme bullshit! Once you finally get to the real game, youill notice how much Grade A ass suckage youire in for. Get ready for this shit, but first, the basics. As you notice they attempted a three-dimensional world. I have to it to them; it was kind of ambition to do on the NES but you are still stuck at moving in ninety-degree angles. You play as either Bill or Ted. They donit interact on screen together which is pretty shitty for a game with such a recognizable duo. So we are looking for Rembrandt, and you know whatO I dare to say ithey missed the opportunity to make this an educational game!i It didnit have to go overboard. It could have still been an action/adventure game but with some informative elements. Itis all about finding the historical dude but there's no aspect of the game where you return them to where they belong. Wouldnit it be nice if they had at least a little description in there to tell you who Rembrandt is instead of just his fucking phone number? And all these time periods are so vague. They are mostly just graphical re-designs of the same stage over and over again. They donit tell us when or where any of this is supposed to be. There are games that are educational, but suck as a game, but this game, just sucks both ways. Whereid the music go? I shit you not! Every time you start the game the music lasts for thirty secondsO then stops. Iim not complaining too much because the music is ass, but why? They didnit know how to program it to loop? The rest of the sound effects are no more advance than what you would here on the Atari 2600. There are mainly two sounds; jumping and falling on your ass. Get used to those two sounds effects. That is most of what you will ever hear. Back to the controls, check out this crap! You can never see where you are going because you are always waiting for the screen to catch up. Classic two-gear diarrhea! Instead of giving you freedom to walk around, you have to follow the path. Apparently, Ted canit walk on grass. You canit even get on the side of the path. If you cut the corner to sharp, youill get stuck, and it takes you on the most indirect route possible. Oh! Fuck! If you jump in the green, you are as stuck as a dog turd on a hot summer sidewalk. You have to keep hopping until you get out. Itis like trying to get out of a sand trap in a golf course and with those jump sound effects, it really reminds me of NES Golf. Cimon! Cimon! Ahh! Fuck! This is among the most annoying things in video gaming history! This is like the fucking bombs in Doctor Jeckyl and Mr. Hyde! The narrow jumps in Ninja Turtles! The snipers in Dick Tracy! The stairs in ghostbusters! The pits in eO Oh, but sometimes theyill let you walk on the green. Yeah sometimes! Its one of those games that keeps changing the fucking rules! What happened here? Where did I go? I found some kind of glitch. The enemies are just random guys. Some of them take your coins and some of them are taking you into the dungeon. Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! -Grunts- The people who stand still, help you out. They give you coins or better yet weapons. That really helped. All the weapons have the same range, they just fly about ten miles away. There is no straight attack! How about give me a crossbow or something? No. You know what youire using? Do you know what this weapon is? Itis a text book. A fucking textbook that explodes! By the way, this wonit change history at all, letis go around blowing people up! Letis kill some ancestors. Thatis real great, as long as it doesnit affect the Wild Stallions concert. When they come back to the present, itis gonna be some kind of Planet of the Apes shit. Theyire gonna be playing to an audience full of intelligent sloths. Another item you can get is the audio cassette. I love how the knight casually says iBill asked me to give you one of this audio cassettei as if the knight would have any idea of what that is. What does it do? It plays music and makes everybody dance. Itis real helpful especially since you donit need a cassette player. Just throw the cassette on the ground. Hey! Wanna listen to some tunes? nretro music plays- So where is Rembrandt? You can explore this whole land but you wonit find him anywhere. That is because you need to lure him out with bait. What is he, a fucking fish? The bait can be any random object. There are four of them hidden on each stage. One of them will make Rembrandt appear in one of the random houses. How do you find this bait? You want to know? Guess what? By jumping into things! This game treats you like an idiot! Like iHey kids! You want to play a Bill and Ted game? Well here you go jumping around in fucking bushes and fences! Thatill keep you busy! Have fun! i There is no shortcut around it. You have to roam the entire stage jumping into everything, and I mean everything! Thereis people who give you clues. Sometimes itis as simple as going up to people and talking to them. Other times you have to select your own responses. The right answer will lead into another thing you have to respond to and another and you just get stuck in this whole dialog tree. I hate this shit. All the answers are this same surfer lingo bullshit! How are you supposed to know what is the right answer? Also, you have to use A to switch through responses and B to select the response you want. How about just left and right then a button to select because The first time playing youill never know itis A or B; so you end up selecting something that you donit want. Itis trial and error and itis not intuitive at all! When you do get a clue, itis always something vague like look for something strange in a tree or look near the crossroadsO That really helps. Near the crossroads? Which fucking crossroads? This is Castlevania 2/Zelda 2 bullshit, and I love it how they use directions like north and south. The game is slanted at a fourty-five degree angle! Which way is south?! How about a compass? How about a map? How about anything?! Oh thatis nice! I'm stuck! Is this where the scenery runs out? Then thereis all these open doors that you canit go in. Thatis another peeve of mine! If you canit go in the door, donit have a door there! At least make the door closed! Itis a psychological tease. I hate games that do that! Fuck the towns people fuck not knowing where to go Iim going to get the power! Nintendo Power! nMusic plays- -Grunts- Wasnit there. nGrunts- Well it helps to visualize the layout of the stage, but where is the starting point? I like to know where I am. You know what? Thatis because the game always start you somewhere different. You can control where it starts you. When the time circuit finishes, you are supposed to press up or down or some shit. I donit know! I donit fucking know! Then there are certain doors that act as warp zones and transport you somewhere else. The magazine doesnit tell me that either nor tell me where the historical dudes are. I know they appear in random houses, but there's probably in a few designated spots. For the bait, it just gives you a circle. Showing the vague area of where they are, not the exact bush or fence. This is one instance where Nintendo Power just didnit bother. Because the game, was too shitty. At least I have an idea of where to look now. Nice I found something! By looking at the magazine, you may call that cheating but the game doesnit even play by its own rules. Bill and Ted were the ultimate cheaters. What have we learned from the movie? If you're failing your history course but happen to have access to a time machine, bring the history to the classroom! If that happened in real life, would the teacher give them an automatic A or say: iyeah, thatis pretty amazing you brought Abe Lincoln here but you still gotta past the testi. I finally found Rembrandt. And for one dialog box you have to hit B instead of A; again changing the rules around. You have to choose which item to give him. There is only one correct choice. Letis say I give him the skull. Thatis the wrong one so Iill have to start over. The correct item is supposed to be something that belongs to this historical figure and here is where the game could have been somewhat educational, but instead itis a joke. For example, for Julius Caesar, you're suppose to give him a salad dressing. Har har har! For Thomas Edison, you are supposed to give him a compact disk. Yeah, letis not change history by the way. For CleopatraO a credit card! For Elvis, a Gravestone. Here you go, Elvis! Here's your fucking gravestone! Youire gonna die! For king Arthur, the holy grail. Yeah! Entire stories have been written of finding the holy grail and youire going to find it by casually slamming into a bush or a fenceO just a little side quest. For Jesse JamesO an Uzi. Youire gonna give Jesse James a fucking Uzi? Youire gonna give a notorious outlaw a more contemporary weapon?! Yeah just help him out! You might as well giveO I donit knowO Vlad Tepish an atom bomb! Anyway, I give Rembrandt a paint roller and he says lets party. Thatis exactly what heid say. He also mentions that heill pay for the call. Of course! Here is some coins for your phone booth time machine from the future! And now we have to go through the damn time circuits again. My coins ran out! Didnit that mother fucker say that he was gonna pay?! Oh Great! I have to roam this fucking stage AGAIN looking for coins?! Iive had enough! Iim losing my faith in the NES library. Was there any quality control here? You know! You know that seal of quality! Did that mean anything? Did anyone look at these games before they dumped them in the back of every K-bee's and Toys-R-Us?! How many of these games are worthless?! All the LJN ones, I can tell you that! But there are good games here, there are! Zelda, Mario, Metroid, Contra, Castlevania, MegamanO But then a big fucking shitstorm hit it! A shit storm of horrible games! And at the middle of it allO a rainbow! A rainbow of shit, LJN! And Bill and Ted, might even be, the worst LJN game on the NES! It just doesnit have some iflawsi. There is no good and bad. This game is all bad. Like, Iim impressed. How did they do it? How did they make it so bad? Bad doesnit even describe it! Itis disgraceful! Its putrid! In fact, I looked up the word putrid in the dictionary. There is no definition; Itis just a picture of Bill and Ted on NES! Curse this fucking game! Curse the plastic that encases the dung heap! Literally! Itis a plastic shell filled with shit! Its fucking shit! Itis... it's ass! Itis garbage! And thatis it, goodnight! Oh I forgot to mention as a matter of fact; It also sucks monkey fuck! Itis a worthless pitiful pile of snot dripping puss bubbling wet steaming mountain of buffalo butt dump and mere descriptions canit even describe the inane lack of common sense that even a child would possess when making a game with chalk on a sidewalk. I canit even come up with a description that is foul and disgusting enough to even come close to this rancid abomination. Canit describe it. Iim doneO for real this time. This game is diarrhea coming out off an old womanis bleeding vagina! Itis fucking terrible! What were they thinking! I know; They werenit thinking! -Subs and timing by MegadriveMaggot-