Building a five-star PC, that's easy. All you have to have is money. But what if you don't? I mean, that two-star motherboard could hold the key to incredible savings. Couldn't be that bad, could it? To find out, we built a PC using only the worst rated parts that we could find on Newegg.com. And we ended up with this. And sure, from the outside, she's not so bad, but on the inside, it's a black hole of misery and disappointment. Maybe, or maybe it's fine. To find out, we need to go back to the beginning. The beginning. The beginning. Starting with the Ryzen 5 8500G. AMD never sent these out to reviewers for evaluation. And if our experience with it is anything to go by, that's probably for good reason. You see, the compromises that AMD made on this chip are a lot, especially if you consider the not-very-low $180 price. Only two of its six cores are full-size Zen 4, and while the integrated graphics are decent compared to the competition, when the time comes to upgrade them, you will be shocked, shocked I say, to discover that your GPU slot could be running at as slow as one-eighth the bandwidth of other modern PCs. And it gets even worse. Modern storage drives can end up with their bandwidth cut, and depending who you believe, this chip might only support single-channel memory. Who does AMD imagine this thing is for? Maybe you're building a super power-efficient PC, but can't afford the better-balanced 8600G? Well, I urge you, theoretical customer, let's name you Grover, please wait for a sale on something else, or consider the Intel 14100 with a discrete GPU, or almost literally anything else. This truly is the worst current chip. So, in it goes, into our motherboard. That is, after we look at this message from our sponsor. Acronis, arm your IT department with centrally-managed protection against cyber threats, and with backup and recovery capabilities with Acronis CyberProtect. Check out their easy-to-use, all-in-one solution using the link in the video description. At first glance, the Prime B650 Plus from Asus seems downright decent. Professional reviewers tout its well-rounded features, so I can see why Grover might be eyeing it, at least until he sees these user reviews. And guys, I know, three stars doesn't necessarily mean something is garbage. I mean, we could have found a one-star motherboard if we looked hard enough, but we felt that it was best to limit our search to products that had more than just a handful of reviews. And besides, while three stars is average, would you eat at a three-star restaurant on Google Maps? One where half of the customers say that the food is delicious, and the other half say it's defective? Multiple people mentioned that the diagnostic LEDs don't work on this board, which could be an issue if we're gonna push our two-star, Mushkin-enhanced Redline memory to the limit. Yep, this right here is 64 whole gigs of the worst-rated DDR5 RAM we could find. Jealous? Well, you probably shouldn't be. See, it's rated for 6400 megatransfers per second, but based on the reviews, it seems very unlikely that we're going to be seeing those speeds, which was a little surprising for me. I mean, Mushkin's a real brand, and at $205, it's not even cheap. So with so many other options at the same price, why would Grover choose these ones? Oh, speaking of price, how much was the motherboard? $180. 180 bucks. I mean, that seems like a... God, motherboards have gotten expensive. This is a B650 board. Yep, that's not even a top-tier one. Well, at least our storage was cheap. That's right, folks, just $40 for the SATA ADATA Premier SP580 with a huge 120 billion bytes of storage, which is, what, enough for Windows and one game? Let's see what the people have to say about this one. Dead, dead, defective. Oh, here's a five-star review. Wait, blue screens, but he's not sure it's because of the SSD? That is a super weird thing to mention in a five-star review for a product. And things aren't looking much better for SSD number two. We bought another junk SSD? I mean, at least the Team Group GX2 has the potential to be more useful thanks to its two-terabyte capacity, but again, that's only if it stays functional. You know what's hard to screw up these days, though? A case. But you know who managed it? B Gears. The B Viggor managed to get only 2.9 stars. The question for me is, why? There's a lot to like here. Tempered glass side panel. Hey, you fooled my trap. This came untaped at the bottom, and so when you picked it up, it just fell out. It was shrink-wrapped, and then they thought that was a good idea, I guess. What, they never taped the box? No, and so twice, people picked it up and it just flew out the bottom. Oh, so the tempered glass side panel could be a bug, not a feature, if you're gonna drop it on the floor. Increased airflow. Also, the photos make this case look like fans are included, and actually make it look pretty sick in general, but in person, it looks more ill than sick. The glass isn't held in place by anything. There's no little nubbins, no little groove to put it in or anything like that. Where would you even put front 120 millimeter fans in this case? It straight up doesn't have the mounts for them. I remember we looked at the pictures of this in script review. Do you have a picture? Sure. There is no fans in the front of the picture. I thought there were. No. No, they just kind of strategically taped the picture so it kind of seems like it. Yep, you could definitely infer that that RGB is coming from fans on the inside. And the bottom too. Like, where would the RGB here be coming from? Yeah, that's a straight up lie. There is no RGB coming through there. Realistically, though, aside from feeling a little deceived, there's nothing inherently wrong with the case. That is, as long as I don't wanna have a ton of airflow. Not only was there nowhere for fans in the front, there's nowhere for air to come into the case. But that seems like a problem for future Linus. This is like really unstable. This is really easy to tip over compared to most cases. It's so light and it's so narrow. Anyway, we weren't able to find a particularly low rated cooler, so we're gonna throw the stock cooler on here. I can't say the same, however, for our fans. If the reviews of these Z3 Pros from Montech are anything to go by, I have very high expectations for them. That is to say, I expect they will make a high amount of noise. I don't wanna keep harping on the case, but there is absolutely nowhere to cable manage the cables for these fans or the eight pin APS connector for the motherboard. So good luck, David. That's why I strategically took the rear fan. These fans literally are mashed up against the VRM cooler of this motherboard. This is a really tight case. Moving on to our power supply. You may recall that Gigabyte was under fire, pun intended, for setting the overpower protection and overcurrent protection on these units too high. Meaning that under heavy load, some spectacular failures took place, some of which took other components with them. Gigabyte ultimately did offer replacements and they fixed the issue in their newer units, but it's clear from the reviews on this thing that the reputational damage was done. And honestly, I'm kind of surprised that they didn't just relaunch this as a new skew to move away from the 240 one star reviews that are on this power supply. While we were wiring it up, we found some serious problems with this case. There's only one spot to mount a two and a half inch drive down here in the bottom. Every other hole is not properly aligned. So I don't know, I guess our other SSD just goes here. But hey, it's got correctly spaced tabs and screw holes for five and a quarter inch optical drives, three of them, even though there would be nowhere for them to slide into. I love this thing. Also, if you have the top fan installed, there is no way to install an eight pin power connector on the top of this board. That might not be an issue with every board, but it's definitely an issue with this one. I could rip the clip off. Do it. I need a knife. Okay, nice. Wow, this cable management is awful and it's not about to get any better. At least it won't get much worse. Our sparkling Eco Arch A310 four gig GPU does not require an external power connector. Wow. That's one of the best things about it though. It's been our position for a long time that there is a class of GPU that is less graphics processing unit and more display adapter for your PCIe slot. And that's pretty much the story here, unless, like Anonymous, you are a video transcoding enthusiast where it can offer a pretty good value, not to mention outstandingly low power consumption at just 50 watts. If, like some folks, you buy this and expect to be doing any gaming on it though, you're going to be sorely disappointed, especially with this one that apparently has issues with the cooling fan. Wait. I know I'm interrupting B-roll to talk about the case again, but to put a glass side panel on this, did they literally just take an existing chassis, drill four holes in it, thread them and then put it on? Like it's got mounting for a regular metal side panel. It's all visible. And if they were gonna just put the holes anywhere anyway, why didn't they make them symmetrical? It took me three attempts to put this glass panel on. They couldn't even put the little grommet on the right spot. So there's just a second hole in it. Getting into the rest of the setup. I don't know what's so bad about this monitor. I mean, yeah, it's only 1080p, but 165 Hertz, one millisecond moving picture response time. Ah, 2.8 out of five eggs and mostly comes down to reliability issues. Breaks down after six months. Cool. This is a fun one. You've probably seen this desk pad somewhere. In fact, you might've even seen it on our channel before. And the reviews across every marketplace it occupies are bad. But what caught our attention more than anything is the awful seller ratings for it. How is this store given a top rated status on Newegg if they have so many negative reviews? I mean, three stars on 402 reviews ain't good. And it's the packaging that seems to be the primary issue. They apparently fold it instead of rolling it. And my notes just say, talk about why they would do that based on everything we've learned from selling desk pads. David, there is no reason to fold a desk pad instead of rolling it. And what's funny is we did buy this from that seller and they did roll it. They just put it in a plastic bag. So I don't know when they figured it out, but hey, they finally did. Either way, at 20 bucks, this is a terrible value. Just pick up a mystery desk pad from lttstore.com. It's bigger and better. And it doesn't identify Winnipeg as one of the three important cities in Canada. Our capital city's not on here. In fact, the American capital's not on here. They got New York, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, and Los Angeles. Where the f*** is Washington? As bad as it is though, it is nothing compared to our ruckus 4-in-1 Pro gaming kit. This has two and a half stars out of five on Walmart with one user calling it the worst thing I've ever used and saying, I feel ashamed just to own it. Why does Southern Telecom Inc. even make gaming peripherals? Remember when lightning was cool? Never stopped being cool. Yeah, me neither. Wait, this is a super weird legend. They put WASD on the arrow keys. What? And there's no Windows key. What? It has a Windows lock. Unless this is a Windows key and the lock is you function Windows. No, that would be so stupid. I'm a reasonable person. And a 2.5 is not good enough for you. So I got you a 2.6 keyboard and it's ergonomic. You've got two sets of peripherals? Just the keyboard. Wow. I'm a reasonable person. Internet and multimedia hotkeys, three color illuminated backlight, and split key design. You know what though? I did a lot of my early gaming on an Ergo keyboard. I don't think you know that. Nope. This is what was missing. Now you're a pro again. Seems serviceable as far as these go and hey, it's got two Windows keys to make up for that last one. You missed the most important upgrade. Another mouse pad. Oh, good. Wow. Oh, that's what makes it four in one. Nice. And it almost lies flat. This is remarkable. This may be the single worst feeling headset that I have ever touched. Oh, that's pretty bad. Touch the ear cups. What is wrong with these? Why? Also this driver is protruding. It's literally right there. You look like a gamer. This is terrible. And in order to justify the molding costs, they have to make thousands of these. Thousands of gamers are experiencing two and a half star gaming. Hey, those fans actually look pretty cool. Kind of noisy, but that can probably be configured. Don't push a ton of air for how loud they are. I have to be touching the metal to feel any air moving. Huh? I hate these peripherals. Guys, for around $50 or less, the Cooler Master MM712 looks awesome, or the Logitech G305. There's lots of options for great budget keyboards. We're gonna have some suggested peripherals for the same price as what we paid for this garbage, linked in the video description. Decor. Oh, apparently there's decor. And we've limited ourselves to one item. And it's one star? It's one star. Wait, is that a Mario star with cowboy boots and a cowboy hat? It certainly looks like a Mario star, and I love it so much. Was this poorly rated? No, it's just one star. Oh, I get it. All right, thanks, David. Am I supposed to get an output from this? Yes. I mean, I guess it shouldn't really surprise us if the lowest rated PC died. Oh, the RAM. Did I put the RAM in the near slots? I actually did notice that, and I meant to mention it. Wow, what a rookie error. Not that it should matter. It should probably still post, but those aren't the best slots to put the first two sticks of memory in. You know what? Other than the fact that the case is a complete piece of crap, I don't hate it. Is that supposed to be color? It looks like it's trying. Maybe. Oh yeah, wait. I didn't see any RGB lead on it. No, it was just a Molex. Dude! There's two more leads off of this thing. I think this is actually an RGB LED strip, but they, yeah. Oh yeah, yeah. No, you can tell. You can tell, because if you cover some of it, it turns a color. But they didn't install the other leads. So there's no control. It's just powered. At least the system's posted, though. Let's see if we can get Expo enabled. DDR5 6400, I believe. Let's go. My question is whether it's gonna be running in dual channel mode. Mm. We saw conflicting information about the support for dual or single channel memory on this CPU. It doesn't make any sense to me. Wait, no, it can't be single channel, because we saw the full capacity of the memory. If it only had a single channel, you wouldn't be able to populate- Both? Both channels. Oh, I see. With two DIMMs. Okay. Yeah, so where did that come from? That's really weird. It's really good that it runs in dual channel, because if you have onboard graphics, you're using your system memory as your VRAM. And slow VRAM is a killer for gaming performance. So this thing would be way worse-er-er than we thought it was. Oh, are we not getting 6400, though? I don't think so. I, hey, hey, hey! Oh, but maybe it just rebooted a couple times and went back. No, no, because it would have prompted us to go into the BIOS. Oh, hey! I think we got full memory speed. Though, it's worth noting that that is as much to do with the integrated memory controller on your CPU and your board layout as it is to do with your memory sticks. 6400 megatransfers per second. Whoa! This SSD is running at 100% usage, just booting up Windows. Oh my God. I wanna know how many PCIe lanes my GPU is getting. Not that I think it actually needs a ton of them, but it will tell us if we wanted to put a more powerful GPU in here, whether it would be bottlenecked. And the answer is PCIe Gen 4x8 at by four. Is that a power-saving thing? Or is it actually only getting four lanes? By the way, this mouse is intolerable. Oh, really? Let's give it a chance. Oh, yeah, I put it on this quality desk pad. You know what? The desk pad's actually helping a fair bit. The included mouse pad has some really high contrast lines on it, and cheap sensors can struggle to track across high contrast lines. We don't even have any M.2 drives installed. So it's not like we're using up all the PCIe lanes somewhere else. I think this thing only runs at by four, unless this ARC GPU only has a by four interface. Does it? That's possible. It's the GPU that's by eight running at by four. Wow. So it wasn't reporting the link speed and the active link speed. It's reporting the capability of the GPU and what the active link speed is. Wow, that sucks. I'm sorry, little buddy. So I haven't actually used HWinfo for this very much. I usually use GPU-Z. I don't know why I didn't just download that. But anyway, we figured it out. I can see why people don't like the fan on this GPU. I know I have Furmark running, but still. Now that our system's up and running, it's time to put Grover's black hole build to the test with some famously review-bombed games, starting with Team Fortress 2. Why are they mad at Valve for Team Fortress? There's a bot issue. Oh. Every game you join, you just instantly start getting sniped. I just meant it's still that? Yes. Cool. How old is this game now, like 15 years old? 2007, 17 years old, good. You'll get old too. What, you're in secure mode? What does that mean? Oh, Steam just crashed? What is happening right now? What is going on? It's almost like we built a bad computer on purpose. Yeah. Blue screen, I saw it on that one. What? Yeah. No way. Yeah, it went, I saw a blue screen appear on the capture. I'm gonna try one more time. Sure. I'm gonna try one more time. Not currently connected to the TF game coordinator service. Please try again. Let's turn the ram down. Okay. We turned the RAM back to J deck speeds and immediately I was able to queue for a casual game. Immediately. I really hate wearing these. They're really, really uncomfortable. Also the volume wheels like backwards. Instead of bringing it towards yourself to turn it up, you push away to turn it up. Who does that? What is happening right now? I guess let's try a different, like join a different game. I can't interact with the game window or like I can't bring it back to focus. Should we just move on to another game? Move on to another game. The game runs, whatever. We can't see the FPS, but it's getting lots of FPS. It's an ancient game. Our next one is Kerbal Space Program 2 Early Access, which I know about this controversy. Basically they launched Early Access for the sequel to Kerbal Space Program and then the developer was shut down, which happens sometimes, you know, business decisions, except you can totally still buy this game. It's not done. It's never going to be done. No, don't do that. Don't set it to high? No. Oh, okay, medium? Low is hard. Got it. I've never actually played Kerbal Space Program. Neither have I. Oh, this really doesn't look that good for what kind of frame rate it's running at. Look at these trees. I have absolutely no idea what I'm doing. Okay, this seems like something. Yeah. Hey, we're about 40 frames. Oh, okay, fuel tank. Okay, cool. Okay, nice. Sure, another fuel tank. Lots of fuel. Okay. Let's see what happens. Let's launch it. Woo! Nine frames a second, baby. Let's go. You're going to space. Oh, our parachute is deployed already. We are rocketing into our parachute. Oh, God. It's glorious. At a glorious 10 frames per second. Like, you'd think it would run out of fuel. Oh, yeah, no, we're almost out of fuel. Oh, I see. The crash is imminent. This is so slow. All right, I think I've seen enough. Yeah. I don't think the crash will be spectacular anyway. Last up, Helldivers 2. 30 frames per second? I'm getting 30 frames per second. You're getting 30? Look, to be clear, I'm not saying it looks great. I'm just saying that's definitely 30 frames per second. But let's get you on a planet and see what happens. It doesn't look terrible for all low. Honestly, man, low on modern games looks not bad. All right, I'm a helldiver. Look at me diving. I'm diving to hell. We're running at native render scale. Hey, 310 might not be as bad as we thought it was. That being said, do you want to know the price of this whole system? How much did we pay? $1,025 just for the tower. For that price, you can get a much better system with like a 7600 and like a 6600 GPU. You are way better spending your money elsewhere. This is a terrible value. Yeah. You know what I want to know? Would we be having a better gaming experience if we didn't buy the Arc 310 at all? I'm curious about that too. We should try our onboard graphics. Let's do it. Roll. Oh, I think you might've missed it, but that was weird. I don't know if we're going to be gaming on this GPU. Well, first I disabled the Arc and Windows and we moved the HDMI over and the system hard rebooted. Then we booted up just now and the screen came up with the Asus Biosplash screen, except there was like green lines everywhere. If only there was some way we could have predicted that this would happen. You know, I've always wondered like, who's buying these low rated parts? Who is our hypothetical Grover? Like obviously you're budget conscious, but you're anxious about the risk of buying used computer parts. Maybe you shop based on word of mouth or brand name rather than like looking at reviews. Like I get it. Reviews can be manipulated. So maybe you don't trust them, which is fair enough, especially with overly positive reviews. But I think it's clear from this exercise that if you ignore online reviews completely, you do so at your peril. Bottom line, there are many reasons why a product might get a low review score. And after experiencing all of them for myself, it's safe to say, listen to the people who bought it before you did. And it's safe to say, listen to the segue to our sponsor. Grammarly. At LMG, the business team's day-to-day operations revolve around communication, coordination and writing. That's where Grammarly comes in. They're an AI writing partner that works right alongside them. For example, if they need to draft up an email for a project proposal, Grammarly can help come up with initial ideas and can check for clarity and tone to ensure their email is impactful and appropriate. Grammarly also understands the context of the writing and can provide high quality suggestions because news flash, writing to Colton is somewhat different than writing to your dad. Also by upgrading to Grammarly Pro, now they have access to full sentence rewrites, turning those long-winded sentences into something more precise. And their app actions feature makes having all those browser tabs less of an issue thanks to the ability to quickly insert links, documents and even GIFs all within Grammarly. So go sign up and upgrade to Grammarly Pro today at grammarly.com/ltt09. If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe you like bad setups. Why don't you check out the one where Luke and I roasted our staff's worst setups. Some of them make this look not that bad.