Cancer is a creepy and mysterious thing. In the process of trying to understand it, to get better at killing it, we discovered a biological paradox Large animals seem to be immune to cancer, which doesn't make any sense. The bigger a being, the more cancer it should have. To understand why we first need to (Kurzgesagt intro music) Kurzgesagt in a Nutshell Our cells are protein robots made out Guided only by chemical reactions, they create and dismantle structures, sustain a metabolism to gain energy, or make *almost* perfect copies of themselves. We call these complex chemical reactions pathways. They are biochemical networks upon networks, Most of them can barely be comprehended by Until.. they don't. With billions of trillions of reactions happening The question is not *if* something Tiny mistakes add up until the To prevent this from getting out of hand, our cells have kill switches that But these kill switches are not infallible. If they fail, a cell can turn into a cancer cell. Most of them are slained by But this is a numbers game. Given enough time a cell would accrue enough mistakes, slipped by unnoticed and begin making more of itself. All animals have to deal with this problem. In general the cells of different The cells of a mouse aren't smaller than yours. Fewer cells and a short life means a lower chance or at least it should mean that. Humans live about 50 times longer and yet the rate of cancer is basically Even waiter, blue whales with about 3,000 times more cells than humans don't seem to get cancer at all really. This is PETO'S PARADOX: The baffling realization that large animals Scientists think there are two main ways of Solution one: evolve or become a blob of cancer. As multicellular beings animals became bigger and bigger. Which added more and more cells and hence more So the collective had to invest The ones that did not died out. But cancer doesn't just happen. It's a process that involves many individual mistakes and mutations in several specific genes within the same cell. These genes are called proto-oncogenes For example with the right mutation, Another mutation and it will develop the ability to hide. Another and it will send out calls for resources. Another one and it will multiply quickly. These oncogenes have an antagonist though; tumor suppressor genes. They prevent these critical mutations from happening or order the cell to kill itself if they decide it's beyond repair. It turns out that large animals Because of this, elephant cells require more They are not immune but more resilient. This adaption probably comes with a cost in Maybe tumor suppressors make elephants age quicker later in life or slow down how quickly injuries heal. We don't know yet. But the solution to the paradox &quot;Hypertumors&quot; Solution 2: Hypertumors Solution 2: Hypertumors Solution 2: Hypertumors Hypertumors are named after Hypertumors are the tumors of tumors. Cancer can be thought of as Normally, cells work together to form structures like organs, tissue or elements of the immune system. But cancer cells are selfish and only work for their own short-term benefit. If they're successful, they form tumors; Making a tumor is hard work though. Millions or billions of cancer cells multiply rapidly, The amount of nutrients they can steal from So the tumor cells trick the body to build new blood vessels directly to the tumor, to feed the thing killing it. And here, the nature of cancer cells Cancer cells are inherently unstable Some of them faster than their buddies. If they do this for a while, at some point one of the copies of might suddenly think of itself as an Which means just like the body, the original tumor suddenly becomes an enemy, fighting for the same scarce nutrients and resources. So the newly mutated cells can create a hypertumor. Instead of helping, they cut off the which will starve and kill the original cancer cells. Cancer is killing cancer. This process can repeat over and over, and this may prevent cancer from It is possible that large animals have they might just not become big enough to notice Which makes sense a two gram tumor while It's less than 0.002% of a human and 0.000002% of a blue whale. All three tumors require the same number of So an old blue whale might be filled There are other proposed solutions to Peto's paradox, such as different metabolic rates or different cellular architecture. But right now we just don't know. Scientists are working on the problem. Figuring out how large animals are so resilient could open the path to new therapies and treatments. Cancer has always been a challenge. Today, we are finally beginning to understand it and by doing so, one day we might finally overcome it.