In 2011, the five-time Worlds Best Restaurant, But three of its chefs decided Using science to create entirely new And today it's the best restaurant in the world. This is Disfrutar. We are here in beautiful Barcelona. Where the sun shines, the sea The Barcelona we know today In fact, not long ago, it was a concrete jungle, choked with traffic and a It all changed leading up to 1992. When Barcelona hosted the Summer Olympics. It would make history - both City officials built a ring road around the city, got rid of the factories from 32 years later, we can not In the city center is the district of Eixample. Where we find Europe's top tourist attractions thanks to Antoni Gaudi as From the street, Disfrutar looks more like But inside is a whole new world. After a warm welcome, we meet Andrea. Who shows us that this place just A quick guide change and we He is actually one of three along with Oriol Castro and Mateu Casanas. They were colleagues at the A restaurant that operated for 25 El Bulli head chef Ferran Adria became an icon and set the stage for other chefs that El Bulli changed the face of gastronomy by giving birth to new techniques that had never been seen or heard of before. They were so focused on innovation that the restaurant would be so Adria and his team could invent new dishes. In 2002 when the World's 50 Best Something it would do again in two This is a winning streak equalled only by Noma. In 2011, chef Adria announced sending shockwaves through the culinary world. Although El Bulli the restaurant is closed, A movie called El Bulli Cooking in Progress and the chefs it inspired Like the three guys here at Disfrutar. They worked together for 16 years at El Bulli. When it closed, they stuck together, calling themselves Castro, They first opened a casual restaurant The next year, Disfrutar was born. Where they continue to evolve on El Chef Xatruch continues the When they first opened, they had one Today, there is more than ten times that amount. But notice this is not a fancy place. It goes for function over style. Perhaps it's because there are no They decide where every penny is spent and Also down here are the catalogues. Each year, around 70 new dishes All of the recipes and techniques You would think they might want to In fact, they publish everything Each dish even has a QR code linked to a You can get them in English or This practice of releasing secrets is who was the first to do this in 1998. At the table, our drinks are taken First, we get to try two water infusions One is infused with a South and looks like a tomato but tastes The other is inspired by coffee For wine, there is one pairing for 160 euros, but instead, I talk with Rodrigo by ordering three wines right I'm in the mood for an older champagne. I see the year 1995 and it looks It's from producer Andre Beaufort. I like to try older vintages I choose a white Burgundy because I was at a wine tasting a and I tried a Pinot Noir from Caroline Morey. She is the wife of a wine producer I really like named Pierre Yves Colin. I ask Rodrigo and he comes I love discovering wines like this. And since no one knows a wine I ask Rodrigo to surprise me He comes back with this: Castillo Ygay Gran Reserva 1968. The grapes used in this wine were and harvested by hand. Here at Disfrutar, they believe that there So, this is the menu. No names, no descriptions, Let the adventure begin. First to the table, is this. Looks like a dessert, right? That a smurf threw up on. It's not. It's a cocktail. Disfrutar's version of a pisco sour. Using alcoholic ice foam. Cool presentation, and it's super refreshing. For our first course, we go back to nature. Here we have 10 sprouts. Each of them holds a It comes with a paper to tell you which is what. The plate is lined with a tomato jelly. Our server Adrian tells us and eat the sprouts one by one with Maybe it was the power of suggestion They add absolutely nothing to the sprouts. It's their natural flavour. That's the beauty of the dish. The qualities and emotions I read on the This promises to be an exciting journey. So far we have had two dishes in It's a seasonal menu for 290 euros. They have a classic tasting menu for the same price as well as a And that's it. Next, we are presented with different Almonds. First, a single freeze-dried green almond. And then, this. The concept was born in 2024 and all this was created with When I tasted this dish, I was blown away! It was mesmerizing and dynamic Our next drink took years to It's a truffle vodka. They need to serve it as cold as possible to It's elegant and earthy with umami flavors. It's an iconic Disfrutar dish that It's called Panchino or Chinese bread in English. Although it looks like a ball Inside is a surprise. Creme fraiche and caviar. It starts with a batter turned into foam. They put some on a spoon and Then more foam. The whole thing is deep-fried Amazing. By the way, if you like what you see and want to see more, consider supporting us by subscribing. It helps us grow so we can level up our game. In the course that follows, But this time, instead of creme fraiche To do that, they use a smart trick. First, they melt the butter, whip it in a The magnifying glass helps us see This dish was the winner of Disfrutar and the University School of It's creamy and salty and finishes with a crisp. Here at Disfrutar, they don't only Using some unusual ingredients. I've never heard of anything like this before. I promise this is the last time I will say that because it's clear the whole This spirit is made with wasabi. It starts at full strength, and with After two weeks, it's down to 18 percent alcohol. And that's why it says "The It has a spicy endnote and It comes not on a plate but in a box. It's a piece of coral, and we are told But there is nothing there. After we fail, we are told to taste it with Then, the illusion is revealed When I actually pick it up, Although it was a bit of fun, the dish was so Now I see this menu has a pattern. They create an expectation in The dishes keep coming. This... is a salad. In the form of a soup. The ingredients are emulsified. The main one is olive. There is also pickled cucumber, tomato, The next two dishes are based on mushrooms. Looking at this first one, it More like a leaf in a bird's nest. But when I taste it... It explodes with concentrated umami flavor. It's made from mushrooms, I really enjoyed it. The next dish uses this machine. Into the jar, they put alcohol After a month of chemical reaction, The device simply speeds up the process. Here we have mushroom vinegar and two real, two imitation. The fake ones are shaped in mushroom form and filled with mushroom essence, We also have a large oyster and an oyster leaf. I guess I don't have to say, Rich, bold, deep flavors. So good. So far this menu is super interesting I don't see it as the presentation of It's a fantastic encounter with deep flavors. So many textures and flavors, so Technically it's impossible to process all this. It's a sensory overload. The service is friendly, but I feel the Next, a deconstructed onion soup. Invented in 2022. It has egg yolk and truffle oil on the top. Underneath is frozen onion bread and This technique uses a thin liquid When eaten, it creates a burst effect. I have seen this technique used It produces a unique, mouthwatering dish. Our next dish uses a process At University, I studied math so I couldn't tell you how they do it. It's made with cream covered with liquid The next course looks like a pastry The base is made from obulato, It's topped with a reduction of aubergine, a butter infusion of anchovy, and a reduction of red pepper. This course comes with instructions. We should start with the aubergine end first. It's a masterclass in texture . This is wonderfully airy and creamy. Our next dish is white asparagus with a reduction of cacao and parmesan It was a bit spicy and very exciting. I really enjoyed this dish as well, Although Disfrutar releases their recipes, As you can see, these are not something This is a different type of cooking. That takes special equipment and a special type of chef. This is molecular gastronomy, a branch of It's focused on physical and chemical processes And quickly dominated the Soon, everyone was jumping on liquid nitrogen seemed to be standard equipment Things started to simmer in 2006 released a statement to the Guardian newspaper. Heston Blumenthal of The Fat Duck, Thomas Keller of The French Laundry, and Ferran Adria of El Bulli. Along with food writer Harold McGee. In the piece, the super chefs declare Explaining how they feel "widely misunderstood" and argue that molecular gastronomy is The statement goes on to stress the values, and tradition while at the same Our next course is &quot;Thai-style baby octopus Here, they showcase a multi-spherical effect To make it at home, just grab a add alginate, and drip the liquid And boom, there you go. You got apple caviar! If you don't have calcium chloride in your Our next course is a special Catalonian It's Calcotada. It starts with a legendary onion invented by Spanish farmer Chat de Benaiges He planted onions but decided to increase The result was sweeter and more He called them calcots, and In Eastern Spain in the town of Valls, the Forty thousand people come to celebrate the onion. At this event, calcots are cooked over open fires. Then wrapped in newspaper When ready, the now-blackened Before eating, each bite is This small newspaper is a throwback to the past. It also tells the story and As the old saying goes, we And this course is a perfect metaphor. It's called Fear! We are told to put our hands into the Let's see what we find. Oops. Not the droid we're looking for. And then, here we go. A perfect, humble prawn. This menu goes from complex to Golden goose eggs were the It's a hard-fried egg white But it's not egg yolk at all. That is actually a spherized spicy prawn consomme. Normally, the membrane would be transparent, The spices, ginger, and peanuts Adrian is making a drink for our next course. It's apple cider that needs time to get ready. Before pouring, he smokes our glasses with oak. It tastes a bit like drinking They've been doing this one It's good! Believe it or not, this is squab or pigeon, At this point, I've had as much and I'm experiencing sensory overload. If you've ever done a tour of the It's huge, and every inch is full of So much, that by the end, you can't In this moment, I am the same way. I can't take in any more. For the first time today, I The flavor of the pigeon was a bit like liver. Desserts are next. And molecular cooking is on full display. We start with a crispy nitro parmesan cookie. A few ingredients here are lemon Before we continue, we have a There is no smoke or mirrors here, It becomes clear when the next dessert is a ring. What looks like flowers here is more Coming to the end of the menu, we have three Nixtamalized pumpkin oil coulant, and freeze-dried "Merengada" To put a pin in things we have the petit fours. When it's time to settle the bill, they Now that I've had some time to I've come to a few conclusions. First, this restaurant is a The tastes are fantastic, and The menu showcases the brilliant minds of three Everything has a twist and Here, they respect the I really liked all the different Despite all the trickery, the But at a certain point, it became too much for me. I was overwhelmed by the incredible Is this the best restaurant for me? No. Is this one of the most innovative kitchens? Probably yes. In my world, the kitchen is an important part. Although it's complemented by the people, the Here, the focus goes straight to the food. The magic that happens at the table is nothing I hope they continue to push the and provide unforgettable and that does it for this episode. Thank you for joining me! If you like this video, hit subscribe. See you next time.