This video has been sponsored About a year ago, and now I want to try This is something I've been wanting to do almost since this channel started, This is because plastic gloves, can sometimes contain a chemical, It's used to make the gloves But I don't really care about any of that. All I care about, which is a naturally occurring chemical These long tails in particular and they were what This was because, to pluck them off the DINP and to then use them as a starting point Based on this, in my opinion, the general idea that I came up with I first had to find some gloves I could then extract it and then I could use that The only issue was that the biggest project I'd ever attempted. I also wasn't exactly sure how to do it and there was a decent chance But anyway, to get started, we first have to go back to when I turned plastic gloves This is because this hot sauce project actually kind of started This was almost two years ago, and I was about to start making I had a nice box of plastic gloves, and I started by pulling out For this project, the gloves that I used and I chopped them into smaller pieces. When I was done, I put it on a hot plate, and I added just enough rubbing alcohol On top of this, and I turned on the hot plate. After that, I waited for the alcohol and I was doing this, The reason that I wanted the phthalate was because it was very close that gives grape Kool-Aid its flavor. There were many types and I really didn't care which one I had It could have been any of the several that were commonly used in vinyl gloves, Just by complete chance, though, these were the only gloves and they contained diisononyl phthalate, After about an hour, it was ready, and all of the DINP What I had to do next so I poured it into a funnel When this was done, and I concentrated it This ended up taking about an hour, but what I was left with so I had to filter it again. I did the exact same thing where I just poured it and when it was eventually done, What I had now, What I did next was add of sodium hydroxide drain cleaner. This started reacting almost immediately and it was slicing off its tails. Now, on their own, the tails were becoming something and the rest of the molecule To fully complete the reaction, though, When it was done, This quickly separated into two layers. For the grape project, I wanted the bottom one, because it contained I drained it all out into a beaker, Left behind, though, which was mostly rubbing alcohol. However, it also contained and this was where Or, I mean, where it technically began, because I didn't actually end up This is mostly because to get the courage One day, though, I randomly decided and I just got started. The first thing that I had to do, was find all of that yellow juice which was actually five jars This was because I ended up needing a lot more sodium phthalate and I had to repeat the same extraction on a total of 100 gloves. But either way, all this meant and what I had to do next was pull out Then, once I had it isolated, I could start building it called Nordihydrocapsaicin. But with that being said it was relatively simple, and I was just going to have to To get started, After that, I dropped in a stir bar, and above the flask, and a thermometer. I then attached some water lines and I also added a heating mantle. The beaker was there to collect everything and when I felt that I was ready, It wasn't too long before hot vapor and it eventually made it This was turning it from a vapor and it started dripping into the beaker. What I was collecting here that I had originally used The goal here and left behind, should have been I was just going to have to wait and unfortunately, It ended up taking even longer and it took four hours I then swapped it out for a new beaker, It was only after another two hours, that it was finally looking However, The liquid that was coming over and this meant that there was water in it. This was a problem, because there was still This told me that and I had to stop the distillation. I then had to wait for it to cool down, and when it was only slightly warm, The stuff that I had now looked a lot thicker and goopier and by the time I was done adding it, I could already see some water I then let it sit there and I waited for it to fully separate. When it eventually looked like I opened the valve Left in the funnel, and I poured all of it back into a flask. It was all still really dirty and I was going to have To do this, and I put together, I then waited it eventually started boiling. Then not too long after this, and it was just water. The temperature then slowly and I started collecting Eventually, though, when it got to 205 C, and this was the boiling point The fact that it stopped here, was a nice confirmation and I swapped out the beaker. What was coming over now, and I kept collecting it At this point, the distillation was done, and I now had a bunch of fresh isononanol. In total, it was about 97 grams, and it was almost exactly It was also way more than I needed, because it meant that and still be okay. But anyway, with that being said, I could finally start trying to build and the first step, into isononanoic acid. I wasn't exactly sure how to do this, was to use something This was because I had already used it to do a very similar reaction. I turned butanol into butanoic acid, and I figured I could just almost do However, long story short, I tried many times, but it was always a complete I was going to have to come up and I started thinking that something It was also pretty much and I decided to try it out. To get started, the first step and I added 22 mls of water to a beaker. I then added 15.4 grams and I stirred it until it all dissolved. When it was all gone, and I waited for it to get nice and cold. When it eventually got to around 5 C, I started adding Every time it was added, though, and I had to do it in small portions. I also had to keep the temperature and it took about an hour When it was finally done, and at this point, I didn't need it so I just let it chill here for a bit. I then went and got another beaker, and into this, This was going to be the solvent and for now, was 5 grams of my fresh isononanol. I then turned on the stirring, I moved it to an ice bath and I added a thermometer. I was also going to have to wait and I left it here for about half an hour. When I came back to it, and what I had to do next, After it was added, and this was because the chromium This was a very good sign and hopefully it was turning it The goal here was to eventually add but I had to do it really slowly. This was because every time the temperature would increase, and to prevent side products, I just kept adding it and at some point, and kind of just stayed This was happening was starting to build up, and this told me that had probably reacted. In total, it took about three hours and now I had to just let it stir About two hours later, and at this point, What I had to do next was destroy and this was, thankfully, pretty simple. All I had to do, This would quickly react with it which was the same At first, I was adding it because I didn't want to add too much. I eventually kind of gave up though, This quickly caused the color to change I then let it stir like this to really make sure, that all of the Jones reagent When I came back to it, and the next thing I had to do To do this, I poured it into a funnel and I waited for it This actually ended up and I was eventually left Left in the funnel, and this was all waste. But anyway, what I had to do next, I put it on a hot plate, and cranked up the heating. I also set up a fan to blow on it but it still took about six hours When I eventually felt like I poured it all into a separatory funnel. On top of this, I added a bunch Then I added a solvent or DCM for short. It wasn't able to mix and it quickly sank to the bottom With everything added, and I started shaking it around. I was doing this to really mix things up and when I felt that it was enough, As it sat there, and all the DCM sank to the bottom. Now, assuming that I actually made it should have been dissolved in the DCM. I drained it all out into a beaker. Everything that was left in the funnel, should have been mostly water There still might have been so I added some more DCM to it After every extraction, I drained the dichloromethane and I eventually had a bunch It was all cloudy and before moving on, I poured it I then added some saturated salt water I then shook it around, and when the layers eventually separated, The only tricky part here was that the DCM and it was now the upper one. The bottom one was the salt water and I drained it all away. I then poured everything into a beaker, and unfortunately, I turned on the stirring, to dry it even more. I let this stir for a while, and when I felt that it was done, The next step, and I had to do another distillation. This went relatively quickly, and after a while, This was all hopefully isononanoic acid, but I don't think it was very pure, I stopped the distillation, I transferred all of it I then attempted to distill it, but for some reason, Instead, it just bubbled and frothed, and after several hours of trying, It was at this point, that I might have been stuck. I still had no idea, how much of this and it was going to be a big problem There was still hope, though, because there was one other thing I got out a beaker, Then into this, It all just quickly floated to the top, and I turned on the stirring. As an oil, but then I started adding a solution This was a very strong base, and if I did actually have it should react, As I kept adding it, the oil slowly disappeared, This didn't fully confirm but it was pretty good evidence. Even after adding a lot of base, though, it was still a bit cloudy, However, and this was because there was some sort I was going to have to get rid of it, I was going to have to put it back I then added which would dissolve After shaking it around, and I threw away the hexanes. I then put the lower layer and I washed it This would hopefully get rid of and any other junk When I was eventually done with that, I had to add some dilute acid, and this would immediately tell me I was pretty sure that it had, but I was also completely prepared I just dumped it all in, and it almost immediately which I was extremely happy to see. This was all isononanoic acid and it was going back I then again added some hexanes, but this time, it would actually I then shook it around, However, now it was the hexanes part I drained away the lower one, and I dumped I then did the same extraction and I combined everything. When I was done, I added some sodium sulfate to dry it, Now all I had to do I poured it all into a flask, and I did This, thankfully, About an hour later, I then let it cool down, My final yield here was 3.5 grams This was pretty Okay, so now, after a week or so of pain, I had the first major piece This was only half of it, though, and getting this was also the easy part. The hard part, into the spicy molecule This was mostly because, without even knowing I had a few basic ideas, By the time I realized that there was only one I was going to have to build and then add it Normally, but in this case, I was unsure how to add it. The only thing that I knew, was that the chemical that I needed looked which is the major flavor So now I had to update I was going to have to get and turn it into something I could then add this to make the beautiful I guess now I would be technically into hot sauce, which I It all makes sense on paper, that these two completely unrelated But anyway, the first thing that I had From past experience, I found that the best and I found a bunch of it I wasn't exactly sure how many to get, I then started cutting them all open In total, this was going to give me and it only took a few minutes When all of them were eventually added, I started pouring in some methanol In total, this ended up and then I started mixing it. What I was trying to do here which was just mixed The sugar itself was and pretty much But anyway, I then let it to really make sure that I dissolved When I came back, and what I had to do next To do this, and I scooped it all When it was all eventually added, I washed the beaker and I mixed it around a bit. I then turned on my vacuum pump into a flask below the filter. To really make sure I washed the sugar a couple more times The only issue was that and it made things a bit cloudy. This was relatively easy to fix though, through some cotton and celite. It was slow, and it was almost crystal clear. What I had now was a relatively clean and what I had to do next In theory, this should leave me I turned on the stirring and the heating Over the next two hours, and when there was only I transferred it to a smaller beaker. I then just waited again, and when it I transferred it At this point, there really wasn't and when it eventually got to it looked like it stopped decreasing. I pulled it off the hot plate As it was cooling, but it apparently stayed as a liquid, and it looked like This was a bit odd, but to fix it, I decided to try stirring it around This can sometimes And at first, However, and then a whole bunch This was all vanillin, and it looked I kept stirring it for a couple minutes, but it still didn't look like There was probably still some So I added some water to force it out. This actually seemed to work pretty well. So just for good measure, I added a few What I had now but I wanted a nice powder, so I transferred it all When everything was in there, I turned on my vacuum pump I then mixed it around a bit, the powder that I wanted. It was still contaminated with methanol so I added some cold water to wash it. After mixing it around it was already looking a lot better. Just for good measure, and when I was done, I was really happy with what I had so far, but it was still wet I put it into a small desiccator. I left it there for a couple days, and when I eventually opened it up, I was hit with the really nice smell What I had now was nearly pure vanillin, The only issue was that for what I had to do. Unlike with the isononanol, But anyway, I could try turning it and the first step was to make To do this, and I added 1.81 grams of something called and 6.44 grams of sodium On top of this, and I stirred it until it all dissolved. Then into the solution, As it sat there, but I don't think much of it This is because vanillin is almost and I was going to have to heat it up. I covered the beaker and I turned on the hot plate. Over the next 10 minutes, it slowly got hotter and hotter, but it didn't look like too much That apparently changed, though, when it eventually got hot enough and all I then continued heating it At this point, with the hydroxylamine hydrochloride This was also supposed to be and I just had to leave it for a bit. When I came back to it, it looked pretty much the same. I then took it off the hot plate, and what I had to do next For over an hour though, pretty much nothing happened, However, and some really nice crystals This was all supposed to be and it was separating out When it eventually cooled I put it in the fridge overnight The next day, I did pretty much the exact I poured all of it into my vacuum filter, I then washed it a few times and when I was done, But they were still wet. So I transferred them to a dish, and I put This time, though, when I took it out, To make sure that this was I tested it to see It ended up being almost exactly and I was pretty happy to see that. This told me that but I was only able to make which, again, But with that being said, this vanillin part had honestly What I had to do next, though, I had to turn the vanillin oxime into the final molecule that I needed, and I had no idea how to do it. What was even worse was that I tried to do this conversion several times I had even tried many completely different However, there was still one that I hadn't attempted yet. The only issue was that I couldn't and it also used mercury, Based on what I read, though, I had a lot of faith and I decided to just go for it. I used all of the vanillin oxime and the reaction seemed to be working. However, after a couple days I finally accepted that it had failed. I have no idea where I went wrong and I honestly don't know Either way, I had just lost everything but that's just how it is sometimes. My much bigger concern Thankfully, though, I stumbled onto something that I liked. In the past, I had never tried to do because all of the methods that I saw always used high pressure hydrogen, This one, though, claimed that and it just took a lot longer. So I decided to try it out. But first, I then quickly extracted the vanillin, For this new method, it probably would have been a good idea to be a bit safer and to try it However, if this didn't work, So I just decided to use everything again. To get started, and I connected my argon I then dropped in a funnel, and I started shooting argon This would push out all the air and replace it with the argon, After several seconds, and I carefully added called Palladium on carbon. On top of this, I dropped in a stir bar, Into this, and this was going to be I then turned on the stirring It wasn't super soluble in the ethanol, but after stirring it for a couple minutes I then turned the argon back on and I poured in all of this It was very important to do because if there was any air around, the catalyst can I was very happy and I used a bit more I then turned on the stirring which was concentrated hydrochloric acid. Now, with the flask fully loaded, and I replaced it with a stopper. To the middle one, and I also swapped Then to this new three-way adapter, I attached a vacuum line and I added a balloon Before doing anything, I had to be absolutely sure So I switched on my vacuum pump I then quickly turned the valve back What I just did here counted as one cycle, and I was going to have to do it When I was done, and I swapped out the inert argon balloon In general, hydrogen balloons but it is possible for them But anyway, I then did the exact same The only difference this time was a lot higher pitched, But anyway, the flask should be completely filled and now I basically just had to wait. What was happening here where the oxime was being and turned into vanillylamine. Any vanillylamine would then and turn into Also, as I mentioned before, all of the black palladium on carbon and it was allowing the hydrogen As the hydrogen was consumed, and it was an easy way With hydrogen, though, there are almost But either way, and all I had to do was occasionally When I came back to it I think the only difference However, it was supposed to be done. What I had to do next was filter But I couldn't just start It was still full of hydrogen gas, and if I just opened it up, I was first going to have to get rid of and bring back the argon one. Then, with that in place, I did the same vacuum cycles and I replaced At this point, it should have been safe, I was very happy when nothing lit on fire, What I had to do next was filter it, and there was still a chance that it So, just in case, above my filter funnel I then carefully poured everything in. And again, there was thankfully no fire. Everything that made it through the filter was also surprisingly clear and colorless, which I was really happy to see. It took about 20 minutes for it all and then I washed the reaction flask I then waited for all of that to pass it looked like it had become a bit yellow, Either way, what I had to do next, was get rid of all of the ethanol, I poured it all into a round bottom flask, and I was going to have For this one, though, I decided and I used one But anyway, this ended up and when it was close to being However, it then suddenly got cloudy, and not too long after, I thought this was the most that it would but then it got even darker, it was a dirty brown. I'm not exactly sure why this happened, that it would be a pain So I stopped the distillation, and I really thought this was However, when I tried shooting in some Everything was almost immediately removed and some of it even looked like I then transferred it all and I used a bit more ethanol What I had to do now, and bring it to a boil. I was doing this to try to clean up all which I was hoping, After boiling it for a few minutes, and almost immediately, I was again hoping that this and when it eventually got to around I put it in the freezer overnight. When I checked on it the next day, it looked like a bit more But either way, what I had to do next, was isolate it and I poured it I then turned on my pump and I pulled away and I washed it When it was eventually done, and this was what I was left with. It was a bunch of nice and white and I was really hoping The only way to confirm this though, and I started by checking However, unlike last time, It was supposed to start melting at 219 C, but it instead started melting at around and then it looked like it burned. Another test was to see if it were and pretty much all of it disappeared, However, when I added some base to it which was supposed to bring it back, it never seemed to work. This was exactly what had happened when I had tried making it before. The properties of whatever I made just didn't seem to match up I was honestly pretty sad at this point, but as one final and desperate test, I decided to run something called an NMR. Just by chance, a week earlier, I had gotten my hands and I figured I might as well try it out. I honestly assumed that it was just but surprisingly, The result that I got matched up and when I saw this, I really didn't know what to believe. According to the NMR, According to everywhere else, though, that reported the melting point and its it was something else. In general, though, NMR is way more and I decided to just ignore Did I actually make I wasn't entirely sure, but I figured that the best way was to just move For this one, I would be finally with the isononanoic acid What was also nice, I wouldn't have to only and in theory, I could just taste it The only problem with this step, was that I really wasn't sure Thankfully, though, the paper that I had used might have had the answer. They used a method that I'd never heard and I think it's mostly used However, their hydrogenation seemed to and I decided to give it a try. I had learned from my past, though, and I decided to not just do This was because I had a lot more than and it seemed like I could get away This way if I completely screwed up, I'd at least have one more try. But anyway, to get started, I got a little flask, and I added Then into this, I added 0.76 grams After that, I turned on the stirring, This was a base, and it was supposed It should have been turning it and this was important for the next step. To make sure that it all reacted, and then I added another This one should have been reacting with the deprotonated isononanoic acid, and forming this new molecule. This reaction was and I had to leave it During this time, it slowly got darker and I wasn't exactly sure But either way, when I came back to it, This was the vanillylamine and I was still really hoping The moment that it was added, with some of the DIPIA, and turning into This should then be able to attack that isononanoic acid If this were actually happening, the vanillylamine would be It would then kick off that extra junk and the final result would be my precious This reaction was supposed to be and I was going to have to leave So just for good measure and to protect it I filled the flask with some argon. I then covered the top, and I left it there overnight. When I came back to it it looked like I wasn't sure if this was a good sign, but it at least looked like Either way, it was now time to try and to see if the reaction So I started the fun process by preloading a separatory funnel with some hexanes These two things and then I added I then did the extraction where I took it off The idea here was to pull all into the hexanes, and then to wait This was about 10 minutes later, into the upper hexanes layer, so I drained away the lower one. Left in the funnel was just the hexanes, but there was also a bunch of other The hexanes itself, though, was relatively I then put that lower layer and I extracted it four more times. I did this just to really make sure that and I transferred What I had now looked pretty clean, but the extraction probably pulled out I was going to have to get this out, I had to put it I then added some dilute which would pull After shaking it around, I drained it I then did another washing and another with saturated salt water. When I was eventually done, I felt that it was looking pretty good. So I poured it all back into a beaker, and I added some anhydrous When it looked like it was done, I poured it into another beaker, I just had to get rid of the hexanes. This would hopefully leave me with just and I was honestly pretty nervous. Over the next few hours, the hexane slowly and I ended up transferring it I then kept going, and in my opinion, However, it was a total failure. All I ended up with, and it was at this moment that I was really happy Like every other time, I initially didn't know and my biggest fear was that I However, it turned out that it The procedure clearly said that a solvent but this was just a general procedure, I did this because the hexanes had worked and I figured that However, I was completely wrong, So now it was time to try it again, except using ethyl acetate, I set the reaction up and when it was done 20 hours later, I added it to a separatory funnel. I also washed it with a bit of water to make sure I then added a bunch of saturated and this easily dissolved everything. After that, I added some ethyl acetate, and I could immediately tell It looked like it had actually and it had completely I then did the usual shaking part, I didn't have any of that weird, and it was a lot easier But anyway, like before, I transferred the and I repeated After that, I poured it and I washed it a bunch of times dilute sodium bicarbonate, and saturated salt solution. When it was done, and I put it all back into a beaker. I then dumped in some and I turned on the stirring. Unlike hexanes, ethyl acetate so this step was even more When I felt that it was ready, and I was already much happier It all ended up making it through and what I had to do now, was get rid of the ethyl acetate. So I turned on the hot plate, and I was just hoping As it evaporated, the color slowly and this was a good sign that After a couple hours, there was almost nothing left, and I transferred it to a vial. I then continued evaporating it until eventually, it actually stopped decreasing. I was very relieved when I saw this, that I actually had something, but I now had the opposite problem. I actually had too much stuff, and it was more than I could If this were actually it definitely wasn't pure. So I had to come up with a way and what I came up with didn't seem too bad. It was very similar to what All I needed was a 5% solution and then into this, I shot in all of the dark oil. Like last time, I was a bit However, I was very relieved when I turned and most of it quickly dissolved. It was all turning but after a few minutes, there was still some stubborn stuff So I kept adding some more 5% potassium and I was eventually left with a nice There was still a bit of junk and what I had to do next, was pour it I also washed the beaker just to make sure I then added hexanes to dissolve all This time, though, and I was specifically using it because I the nordihydrocapsaicin. I ended up washing it twice and I got rid of those washings. Then after that, I drained all of my precious orange water The next step was to try and get back and to do this, I decided to use CO2 gas. I used a pipette to shoot in a gentle and this should have been slowly Almost immediately, I started seeing some and I was very relieved to see this. At this point, I was 95% sure that I had and it was also looking like Over the next 30 minutes, but it also started changing color. I was really hoping that it would become but it was instead looking like A few minutes later, the solution and I pulled out the pipette. It was stuck to all that goo, though, and I had to smear it I then dumped off all of the water, and I added some ethyl acetate. I used the CO2 pipette and I kept going Just for good measure, I added and then, like I did a bunch I added some sodium sulfate to dry it. This time, though, I didn't just filter and I also used some silica gel. I found that this was very important to take out polar impurities, like salts, and it seemed to really help clean it up. It also seemed to take out some and I ran it through When I was eventually done, I also had twice the amount because I had to wash the funnel Either way, this wasn't an issue, because the next step was This would hopefully leave me and I turned on the hot plate. After a while, there was and like before, I then continued evaporating it by blowing and again, This time, though, it was actually It was also definitely way cleaner, but it looked like there was So get rid of it, and this was what I had a few days later. It was a much thicker oil, and I couldn't help but think It was also barely anything, and it was honestly hard to believe At this point, though, I still wasn't completely sure that this was actually To find out, I was honestly tempted but I didn't really want to potentially It was much smarter to first run it through my new and fancy NMR machine. So I carefully loaded a sample into it, and I nervously waited for the result. When it eventually popped up I was extremely relieved by what I saw. It was almost exactly and it basically confirmed However, I still felt that to be I just had to taste it. All I needed, though, because if this were nordihydrocapsaicin, it would be really potent. I guess I just have to try it. Okay. It's definitely spicy. Took a couple seconds to sense anything. Yeah. Okay. I was expecting to be much happier It's kind of just painful. Oh, God. Is that from the spice? Oh, God. I've never had spicy hiccups before. It doesn't feel good. Yeah, I can confirm that's spicy. Confirmed. I did it. It worked. But anyway, with that all confirmed, which was now almost To get started with this, the first thing and most hot sauces However, chili peppers are, and it would kind of defeat I was instead going to have to make it from something that was and I decided to just go with For the recipe, I wanted it to be as simple as possible, Then on top of this, a small piece of garlic, I kind of just made up this recipe, and I'm normally but I felt like this was so simple But anyway, what I had to do next When I eventually felt that it looked I then opened it up, and I was pretty happy with what I had. It actually looked like a hot sauce, Right now, though, and what I had to do next Adding it as that thick oil, though, and I first had to dissolve it So I added a bunch of 94% ethanol, and I mixed it around When it was eventually done, it was way goopier and I also had Based on almost nothing, though, I felt that half of it and I just went ahead and shot it all in. I then started mixing it around, Finally, after probably I had actually made The only problem was that and after my last experience, I was honestly a bit scared. I was also a bit worried that But I guess there was only Okay, so, yeah, and I've decided to just put So, yeah, that's what I'm doing. Oh, God. Oh, no. Oh, God. It's not as bad. Honestly, it's pretty good. It's, like, right on that threshold I think I have to finish this wing, right? Do I put more sauce on? You know what, I need to put more on. I think that truly, Why am I doing this? Oh, God. Yeah, it's definitely like But honestly, in terms of flavor, I rate it, like seven and a half, In terms of spiciness, a seven, it could be worse. Okay, so it had apparently all worked out, and I was actually able to turn Or, I mean, which I honestly think is even better. Also, this was something since I started this channel, and I'm really glad that For now, though, I think I need a break Instead, I think I'm going to work on like turning wood into a bouncy ball. But anyway, this project ended up taking and I think it took about So I really want to give a big thanks like this possible, and to Micro Center If you haven't already heard about for tech, DIY, and just They have a huge array of and they sell almost anything whether you're looking to get into fly a drone, or to just do your They also have physical locations and see exactly what you're buying. They also offer a really useful tool if you're looking to build One of the most annoying things is and this makes it really easy that you know will actually work. On top of this, they also offer a service where they can assemble But anyway, with that being said, I definitely recommend Right now they're also a free 128 gig flash drive To get it, you just have to follow the link which you can then trade in store With that being said though, As usual, a big thanks goes out Everyone who supports me at least 24 hours You'll also get access to all the older and if you support me with $5 or more, like you see here. I'm sweating, covered in sauce, and I think this is exactly how