Peter Robinson: and costs. &quot;If we're serious about helping the such calculations.&quot; Bjorn Lomborg on Uncommon I'm Peter Robinson. Bjorn Lomborg is president dedicated to applying economic analysis, including He's the author of many books, including the Bjorn Lomborg's latest book, Best Things Bjorn Lomborg: Peter Robinson: &quot;For about 35 billion per year, we can save poorer half of the world more than a trillion come to the substance of that outlandish claim Bjorn Lomborg: want to make the world a better place. So this the similar ones across the world that are giving like Bill Gates and many others, who want to do our small envelopes at the end of the year and whatever it is on these things. And of course, at low and lower middle-income countries, the 4 governments, of course, should also be spending it just a little bit because $35 billion, although I Peter Robinson: Bjorn Lomborg: right? So he would run out. He would run out. But the point is, it is a trivial rounding Peter Robinson: Bjorn Lomborg: We could definitely, do this if we wanted to. every we. It's a push for you. It's a push for it's also a push for all rich world governments Peter Robinson: intelligently, you contrast two United Nations and another indicates what we ought not to do, if Millennium Development Goals which you describe in 2015, the UN adopted something called the &quot;Promise everything to everyone but deliver Bjorn Lomborg: successful array of goals for the world, which was get people out of poverty. We want to get people We want to get moms and kids not dying. And we simple list. Now, I've told you all of the main that we basically just didn't look at- But the big ones, you can literally Bjorn Lomborg: Peter Robinson: Bjorn Lomborg: not all equally great, and some of them were hard incredible growth so we lifted a lot of people out had promised it, but because China got rich. But aid to things that make a lot of sense, and the UN wants to redo their great scheme, but they that the original scheme had actually been made five other men. They were all men in a back room clearly you want to ask everyone, &quot;So what should you end up with an endless list of promises. The end result was an official 169 promises, but the book, mostly because they're almost comically we're going to do in the world. We literally to cut poverty, but we also promise which is going to cost a trillion dollars that I but we also promised organic apples to everyone. that are incredibly important and we really should things that are more like, yeah, I'd like that Peter Robinson: you produce a list of 12 objectives, a limited you make straightforward calculations and you &quot;Here's what it will cost, and here is a dollar question, which is, I can understand how it's for costs. What does fertilizer cost? What amounts to the benefits? You save a human life. life? You improve general welfare for people. Bjorn Lomborg: Peter Robinson: you would calculate the benefits. So fundamentally, this is a proven methodology in Many of the costs are very well-defined. but they're also social, that you don't die, kids don't die. And environmental, that you have you appreciate. The question is, how much is how much is it worth to save a human life? Now, how much would you pay to save a human life? The Peter Robinson: Bjorn Lomborg: because we don't. We actually very specifically you can show this. If you look for instance at Roundabouts save lives because it's hard to just own car. It takes up time and it costs money to roundabouts where you can save a lot of lives what do you say? Where virtually nobody- [inaudible 00:07:32] ... well, where nobody goes through it, right? All right. So the point is, we can actually calculate, what life? Turns out in the US, it's about $10 million. not expensive enough- I'm worth at least 1,5 million, Bjorn. You're also 10. But the truth is, of course, we risky. You ask for what the Brits disarmingly it's a more dangerous job. You have just revealed more for a little more money. If you calculate turns out it's about 10 million. Now for poor simply because they have less money and they have poor countries, you'll see a whole truckload of out from the side, that kind of thing. They many other challenges and so they'll often accept So we estimate what that value is for the low of complicated measures. The answer is, it's worth year because we think... And this is also what the die have a lot of lives leftover, more than if you and maybe just a couple of months extra. there's no way this is true, but the value of this do incredible amounts of good and where you can. Okay. Okay, so it's a useful methodology? Yes. All right. So the subtitle of Best Things First, poorest.&quot; As I said, you've settled on greatest deterrents. We don't have time to go you mentioned combating malaria, improving diseases. Let's take one of these in particular, to learn remains a problem in much of the world is tuberculosis and why would a typical American Bjorn Lomborg: You typically get it in crowded conditions. It's the antique era, but it really was only when we to each other, then we started to infect each died in North America and in Europe died from now I'm giving away the ending, in Moulin Rouge- [inaudible 00:10:51] Yes. In Moulin Rouge, Satine dies from I'm also giving away the answer to the opera. tuberculosis. This was a tsunami of death, and send people off to sanitariums. It probably didn't is, around 1930, we basically fixed this. So the rich world. That's why virtually nobody dies poor world, 1.4 million people still die each and it's hard to treat. You actually need If you've ever had medication for two you start to forget to take your medication. for half a year is incredibly important because actually make a drug-resistant TB and transfer take it. You also want to find all the people who get diagnosed. For obvious reasons, there's a lot it turns out that every fourth person that gets a divorce, because his or her partner don't want There'll be lots of other things- So you keep quiet about it. Yeah. So you go to the doctor, often that you don't actually want the tuberculosis so chances are you're going to say, &quot;You know of thing. And of course, that means that we don't four million people still have the virus and don't treated and getting people diagnosed. This is about $6 billion at least- A year. A year. Right. And you can save in the long run about Peter Robinson: can you clear this up for me? It's $6.2 billion in Bjorn Lomborg: Peter Robinson: Bjorn Lomborg: as I believe, 12 to $13 billion. Okay, we'll come back to that. So again, to but I put this in perspective. I just would equal about one-tenth of 1% of the Or we'll even take a small country, your beloved of the Danish budget. So we're talking about attainable, as you- Can I just mention... Because in some ways, budget because there's a lot of other So in the book, I actually compared to the which is about $60 billion more. So we're talking spending on pet food, or the increase in makeup This is not something that we can't afford. Now, but we could afford to do this. All right. Agriculture, a couple of the 12 improving nutrition, for example, but let's take Best Things First, &quot;Just a century ago, two-thirds Now, hunger affects less than one in 10 people,&quot; sweeping change was economic growth. The second describe those two. Before we come to the problem how we got this staggering statistic that it is hungry, to only a 10th of humanity is hungry. This is one of the incredible unsung victories 100 years ago were starving, in a permanent state when people get richer, they can actually and they can also afford it to their kids. So this go away. But at the same time, we also managed used to for corn and rice and wheat and so on, to seeds much more productive, that was basically 1960s, ushered in by Norman Borlaug, who then went news stories, he's one of the few people, possibly that he saved a billion people all by himself. but mostly it was rice, wheat, and corn. What all the food stuffs that is used for instance in these less sexy things that also Monsanto has very but we should help make better because obviously you'll end up with more food, but you which of course is how we got rich. We got rich of the workforce working in agriculture, but maybe other productive... Or sit here and just talk in better productivity to the poor half of the world. All right, so let me give you a couple of Bjorn. Here's Paul Ehrlich in his 1968 book, The already lost, in the sense that we will not the next decade or so.&quot; Well, along came Norman agricultural productivity that you just people actually were better nourished, not less but even today, Paul Ehrlich, who is still with even if the timing was off. Here he is in 2018 &quot;A shattering collapse of civilization is and the risk is increasing continually as long and political systems. As I've said many times, Here's Bjorn Lomborg in Best Things First, consumers $2.5 trillion better off while reducing million by 2030.&quot; You insist that economic growth certain underlying fundamental optimism about the emphasis on R&amp;D, research and development, you quite such a techno-optimist? I would say I'm a techno-realist and the obvious simple point is, Paul Ehrlich is making some good aware of those problems, but fundamentally, it's only so much food, so when we can't really do people are just going to starve. Turned out to be We doubled or tripled yields, and that meant not they could produce it much more efficiently and other things and become much more productive. surprisingly, everyone in the poor half of the tried to do with this book is, it's not that but there are only a few ones that are incredibly you we need to get more fertilizer, or we need to you call the big machines that- Harvesters. Harvesters. Combines. Combines. We need to get all of that out. Well, they're probably a good idea, but they only But if you make this little tiny grain, or in the a little more effective, you can just do that it to everyone, and everyone grows more. This policy. So the point is, we're simply saying, this is the one that will really make because there's also a distributional issue but they're also a little worried prices are going to down- Price will collapse, right. Yeah. But this actually turns out that both make up for it in volume, so they'll actually make in the cities who typically buy the food because So overall, everybody wins with us. Not all of those things where for little money, we can do Peter Robinson: Best Things First, &quot;Trade still offers a good it's an incredible deal.&quot; Bjorn? Yes. So trade is one of those things. we should do this.&quot; Trade is fundamentally a good do what you're best at, and I can do what I'm the fundamental point that we realized back in the a lot of vested interests too who don't want this like you to not be able to trade with me because there's a lot of reasons why this has been a forgot to talk about was the fact that when you This is essentially the Rust Belt conversation realize if you open up for a lot of trade for to be working in import exposed industries, and their pay cut, or maybe their job's simply to talk about that. Economists in general just all elated about this, and that's one of on free trade. It was like, sure, they promised great stuff, but there were also real problems. this is not me being incredibly brilliant. These these papers based on period research, and as I understand, the first free trade economic the benefits that we all get better off, but Turns out in the rich world, this is a real by opening up its economy, you also lose $1. Peter Robinson: Bjorn Lomborg: Peter Robinson: Everybody who shops at Walmart gets cheaper South Carolina where they used to have textile and this town are going to be wiped out. Exactly. And that's a real problem, but also, of able to handle, because you have $7 to compensate- To help out. ... these guys, make sure that they get an that they can become productive in a 21st century and we've learned that lesson, but there are many is the reason why a lot of rich countries are poor countries are going to be doing the jobs that to win, so we find that while in the rich world, half of the world, it's 95:1. That's why this course also, if you want to help poor countries &quot;They should have access to free trade.&quot; Okay. Let me go through, because I find it so here in Best Things First. You note that China 2.5% in 2020. At the same time, they're lifting Actually, I think it would probably be better to to lift themselves out of poverty- Yes. All right. India, similar story. Cuts tariffs from to the world. It sees its incomes quadruple. Douglas Irwin showing that declining trade all rapid growth developing countries in the and on it goes.&quot; Then we come to the heart of runs through the book, and the theme is economic decades of economic growth, the bottom 20% and the as the mean economic growth in a the poor become better off. Prosperity really Bjorn Lomborg: of my argument is that this is a cost-benefit But one of the concerns that a lot of people would money. And sure, on average, America and China the poorest? Aren't they going to be left behind? And the research shows, well, that's actually much. Now again, you might argue you'd like them but they grow just as fast- But John Kennedy said, &quot;A rising tide Bjorn Lomborg: Peter Robinson: to show you a brief video clip, Bjorn. The whole topic of tariffs to me is so simple. it brings our companies back, because if you their car plans here and they're going to employ because of Biden. They're building big plants in then they sell it across the border with very their plants in the United States. We don't want by China in the United States, using our workers- Mr. President- But it also gives us a big political power. stopping wars because they don't want tariffs. And sing with the threat of tariffs. And if you don't Peter Robinson: supporting him. 47%, I think, in the latest poll. democracy after democracy, after democracy. How Bjorn Lomborg: of the challenges. This is why it's not happening, to have our work in our nation and that's how it realize that the reason why you're so well-off do best, and we all trade. This is what we found no doubt that Donald Trump could get everyone would sing too if he was going to threaten me with Fundamentally, putting tariffs on anything simply it becomes less efficient for the whole world. It singing. But the fundamental point here is again, as well-off as we can rather than just simply I want the world to be better off. Right. Bjorn, there is one topic that appears there's 12 of these. There has to be one that video to play for you. And the only existential threat humanity faces, is global warming going above 1.5 degrees in the way back from that. Climate change, Bjorn, is the only existential Things First. Is it because you don't think it's addressing it? So it's a little of both. So fundamentally, global threat. Any kind of estimates, even the worst more likely with 97% of what we would otherwise we're likely, according to the UN, to be 450% as warming and because of the problems, there'll like we're only 434% as rich. That's a problem, we'll be much, much better off- The planet is not going to be reduced to a cinder? No. And this is more a politician or a campaigner is telling us. Again, there's a real problem, but And in the short run, the things you can do about most economists would say is a good idea, is also carbon tax will deliver $2 back on the dollar, money and if you have enough policy capital, you thing you should be doing. So these are the 12 deliver more than $15 back on the dollar. Climate that. Now, there are some things that are great, change, you should, for instance, focus on Make green energy incredibly much cheaper through a game changer. And of course then, you can get board if you could do that. Even that very, very a year, so three times the total cost of this in the dollar. And this assumes essentially first future because we are pretty safe right now. of the world is. If your kids are dying or have enough food, or if you have bad education, other problems, this is what you worry about, Peter Robinson: Bjorn Lomborg: we can care about both. I'm not saying we should this is what we should do first- One more question about climate. And by the way, topic, and our viewers can find them on YouTube You've written books about this. The material and present purposes, what is it about climate change? attention of the Western world to such an extent climate change represents an existential threat, such thing, not even close to any such thing. What West that we find ourselves fixating on something might argue, I would tend to suspect that it's could actually do. Why? Oh, absolutely. For the same reason that Paul 50 years ago, to say. Yeah, we've already lost many people, many billions are going to die in- Doom sells, somehow? ... starvation. Doom is fantastically good TV. So this. So if you think about what was before rain. Do you remember that? Yes, I do. Yes, I do. [inaudible 00:35:04] 1980s. Again, acid for instance, in Norway and up in Canada, some near Czechoslovakia where there was a lot of air most people thought, and this is how the media by the year 2000. And of course, Peter Robinson: Bjorn Lomborg: TV for 10 years. And this is essentially the same we're fixing it badly, partly because we're scared you also point out, it means we end up forgetting the poor half of the world, the 4 billion people they know that while they also care about the fact that we could save their kids from tonight. Why aren't we? Because we're Peter Robinson: Best Things First, &quot;This book doesn't try to money on. There may well be useful changes to another, but that's a discussion for elsewhere.&quot; on the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, a couple during this presidential campaign is a big Biden supposed climate spending over the next decade. we doubt there has ever been a bigger splurge of subsidies will inevitably cause investment I can see why Bjorn Lomborg wants to keep we can achieve and not get drawn into different to accomplish every task in this book. That's $350 little urge to pipe up when you see the United some substantial portion- Yeah, I know. ... of that is very clearly a Bjorn Lomborg: many times, and I find that one of the things not try to say, &quot;Here's what you shouldn't do. stuff. This is about saying, &quot;Here are 12 amazing shouldn't we do that first?&quot; And then- And you're such a sweet, upbeat guy. Well, but it's also... Look, it's a more power in getting everybody on board with Peter Robinson: Bjorn Lomborg: of other things that everybody will disagree Peter Robinson: alongside me, but I understand you want to be- I do that often. All right, all right. So Bjorn, here's the last you are in your trademark T-shirt and jeans, a which is so often held up as a socialist paradise. analysis and close calculations, and you So I put it to you, Bjorn, that you are running progressive, but you are actually bougie. You are Bjorn Lomborg: I think if you look at most of the Scandinavian is why they're rich. They're also just very aware into good schools and other kinds of good things. But fundamentally, we have learned very clearly everything. If you're not poor, you're much more argument of how we can make a very large portion Remember, if you start out and- And you're really smart in markets. Yes, but if you're really smart, but if disease in the first years of your life or if you don't get good nutrition, or if you're not going to get anywhere. This is a way a fighting chance to actually live the life that Peter Robinson: the last question. Here's the last question, I now. Any response? Do you see the UN saying, &quot;Oh, reasonable, almost modest list of items that we of RO. What a good idea, let's do it?&quot; I don't country, and I'm not aware that USAID has shifted. Bjorn Lomborg: the UN not surprisingly decided to say, &quot;Oh my much more money,&quot; which is the standard approach it. I also understand why they wouldn't embrace done it differently. But the main point here is people in the administration and everywhere else, this is some of the things that they should do. is that most people will pick up on one or two and that.&quot; And that's exactly what this is about. This getting things slightly less wrong. Moving in is we're working with a lot of governments around So I just came back from Tonga in the South but they have their own priorities, and what and say, &quot;Of all these things, what does the good investment and what is not?&quot; And try to New Zealand and Australia spends a lot of money bit like they get pushed from New Zealand and have an argument of saying, &quot;No, this is actually thing for Tonga.&quot; We're doing the same thing for around the world. And I think that's how you make board right away, but this is not how that works. &quot;Oh, let's do smart things-&quot; But that's fascinating that it's not rich to be responding. It's poor countries- Yes. ... who are responding. This is about poor country problems. Obviously, if this is not your main thing- Tonga doesn't care about that. Well, Tonga cares less about that and more they want better infrastructure, they very simple things, and that's where you Peter Robinson: author of Best Things First, thank you. Thank you. For Uncommon Knowledge, the Hoover Institution,