The year is 1934. In the green hills of Germany, is about to commence. Now, this story is a little bit controversial, There, according to Mercedes Benz, they faced a dilemma. Their new Grand Prix racing car, for pre-race inspection and was found to be one kilogram overweight. Mercedes Benz New Shining star would not be allowed to compete. In a moment of clarity, team manager ordered his men to shave the fresh white paint leaving the race car stripped to its a distinctive contrast to the brightly The W25 would become a shining silver arrow that took and would dominate racing for the three years Now, whether or not that story is true, we'll leave that up to the historians. True or not, the blood of the Silver Arrow the fuel lines of Mercedes to come until it was time that Mercedes sought to leave behind the world of pedestrian sports car racing and try their hand at building supercars. They would go up against Ferrari, Porsche, McLaren to show they had what it took They built a car so powerful, so absurd that it lit a fire in the soul of Mercedes racing forever. A machine made in record time that would point the Silver Arrow for this brief moment in history. The stuffy, rigid and create the CLK GTR. Let's rewind a little. It's 1993 and left a massive hole in the racing world outside of Le Mans and Formula One. There really wasn't anywhere for the world's with each other on a global scale. Thankfully, a team of Mad Men together What they formed was known as the BPR Global Initially, the series started with some Porsches the big dogs took notice Jaguar, with the XJ220 Ferrari, fielded the magnificent F40 GTE As always, the venerable 911 came and dominated and the oft-forgotten DeTomaso Pantera was.... there. everything was fine until Gordon Murray's The F1 GTR came and took everyone's hopes and dreams away. The podiums of BPR races in 1995 would have you believe for 12 straight races. Gordon's cars would bully the world's Soon after, they wanted to push teams and to show off a little. So the FIA put in place new homologation rules. Only 25 road going examples were going This small, laughable requirement car manufacturers, companies could then build some truly spectacular race cars. Limited run supercars with almost no restrictions. It wouldn't really matter though. The McLaren F1 GT-R would continue to That is, until one company lost its cool, took a bite of schnitzel I'm not too sure that you'll ever see that many GTI runs on the roads, to provide Porsche with a lot more places on top of the podium. It did. By the end of the 95 season, it was clear you had to beat Gordon Murray Porsche being Porsche needed to be on top as if their entire brand's The problem is developing a new GT supercar from the ground up isn't easy or quick, and they only had the off season of defeating But like my dad always said, The duck Porsche had was the La Mans winning car, a screaming speedway edge powered by over 740 The problem was, is and this was a homologated race some road going examples. At the time Porsche was selling the 993 911 the last great air cooled 911 Porsche engineers took the front of the 993 worked a ton of other magic and created one of the most insane the Porsche 911 GT1 a massive, elongated, aerodynamic twin turbocharged hypercar that sort of resembled the 911 while sharing almost no parts with one in its debut second and third at the podium, just one lap down from the full on prototype winner. It would begin competing but when it did, no one could beat it. So dominant was the GT1 It shook the confidence of everyone Some, like Ferrari, figured they could never win, so they gave up developing the F50 Gt1. By the end of the 96 season, many teams sat huddled in dimly lit garages, furrowing their brows and questioning In 97. One brand, though, not as an insurmountable hurdle, Four months before the beginning of the 1997 Mercedes-Benz roll up their sleeves Design is much more than just an attractive the designer takes all kinds of different processes them, and reproduces them Four months. The time it takes me to make like one video or the time it takes a team of engineers It's early December of 1996. Christmas tunes are playing But instead of a holiday break, the team at AMG that their New Year's resolution Their mission was to take a look at the Porsche a purebred prototype type race car and make it better. They had just 128 days. Good luck. The 911 Gt1 would be their blueprint to build a completely race focused prototype and fit some production car headlights to it. Now, 128 days isn't a very long time, So how does that saying go? Good artists borrow, great artists So steal they did. Not content with being merely good. The team at AMG chassis 11 R and commit a mortal sin against it. They gutted it. They took the body off, slapped together a new outer What they did might have been a crime but the result was one of the fastest They created a test mule that would be priceless put the McLaren bodywork and engine back on The experiment, though, had pushed forward the CLK GTR's evolution by leaps and bounds with all the chassis design basically done The AMG team set about stealing more ideas after stripping off their placeholder bodywork. The AMG team took the proportions slapped the headlights, nuanced the aerodynamics some clay and a computer, who were able to create the chassis To motivate this new gargantuan beast. AMG took their M120 a massive hunk of aluminum They then added a ton of titanium and upped the compression ratio. The result was six liters of Germanic might 12 cylinders thundering with the sound of 600 horses Naturally aspirated and high revving, Its idle was a whine. It sang like a Formula One car Mated to a six speed sequential gearbox. The enormous CLK GTR and sail right up to 200 miles per hour with ease. Like the F1 it was derived from, as an integral part of the chassis mounted banshee singing just inches from the driver's In their allotted amount of time But fueled by pride, insanity and a desire to push two race ready 128 days after they were tasked with its creation. Unfortunately, the miracles ended there as AMG debuted their new Shining silver supercar as an FIA GTI at their home track the Hockenheim ring. Both CLK GTRs suffered The best they could manage was 27th place, far behind both the Porsche Gt1 that inspired it Hell, even the Viper beat it. The F1 fittingly would sweep the podium. Damn that Gordon Murray and his hair. Undeterred, the team at AMG went bolts and creating a machine between them and glory. Thomas Bscher in trouble in the McLaren and getting clouded by the number 61 L The McLaren, a race winner a year ago and in 1998 really past its sell by date. Despite its rough beginnings, the CLK GTR that the Silver Arrows spirit was alive Their first podium came a month after their failures in Hockenheim. In Silverstone, they would take one step closer A third CLK GTR was added to the team But again, disasters would strike But there was a distinct change in the air rolled out CLK GTRs on the pit of Nurburgring. With enough time finally under their belts. The team at AMG were ready. After a contentious qualifying session. The front of the pack would be entirely two CLK GTRs would be leading Behind them. There where, over 60 years ago, in Mercedes Benz' heart Bernd Schnieder and Klaus Ludwig would stand atop the podium. Finally, having defeated the McLaren Mercedes decided they like the taste and would do it again and again for the rest of the season. The top three finishers AMG would take back to Stuttgart both the drivers and manufacturer's titles as the 1997 season drew to a close. Amidst the celebration back home in Germany. A firm knock was heard at the door. The FIA had been promised street cars and they wanted to see them. But, while a car so good that it looks to have its good news for a few very very rich car nuts because, in order to go racing, Mercdedes had they've now build 25 of these fully street one sale for a price tag of Unlike Group A where homologation was paramount to participation in FIA GT. It was only sorta enforced. Mercedes Benz promised that they're already hard But as the season wound down, So in the off season they had to scramble benefit, meant that what they got known as the Strabenversion or street version. German is fun. Hans Werner Aufrecht otherwise known as the A with bringing the road cars to life. The team took 3 to 4 weeks to make each one receiving few changes from its race car pedigree. It got and received some softer cams, It got less aggressive aerodynamics, a more pedestrian interior, And if you are really lucky, air conditioning. Outside of that, what you bought in 1998 was essentially an FIA GT championship winning race car that you could use to scare the sheets out of people on the autobahn. It had the same sequential transmission though. The street car got flappy the same howling mechanical, haunting melody flowing out the exhaust pipes. All yours for the price of two of Gordon's McLaren F1s $1.5 million, making the CLK GTR a record it would hold for nearly 20 years Even at that price, though, it was a bargain. You were buying history. History you could drive, but not drive very easily. The CLK GTR was difficult It had a four plate carbon fiber race clutch. It hated to drive barely holding traction It had no rearview mirror, Even getting into the car was a hassle. You had to step over one foot door sills to then cram into an absurdly tiny cabin. Because, well, this was a race car, and weight of a fit little German man What greeted you, of Mercedes But you didn't buy a CLK GTR for listening to music You bought it to start it up and hear that behind you, shaking the cabin and deafening you even at idle or you more likely bought it because you knew it would be worth multitudes more as it aged. So difficult were these cars to handle that today Many of them Even if you wanted to put some seat time There just wasn't anywhere in the world to easily The road going CLK GTR, largely had no trouble selling, though In 2002 Hans even decided to make a roadster an extremely limited car. In the end, only around 28 CLK GTR cars were made for mortal consumption, Whatever model they got, a real life race car of Europe. In 98, the CLK would once again Championship and handily kick Ten races, ten wins. The CLK GTR would be another name the best of McLaren, Ferrari The AMG team's performance would essentially ruin In 1999, the Gt1 class was canceled because everyone dropped out. No one wanted to step up once again, like in DTM. Before Mercedes and AMG had been so good at racing, they killed an entire series, but they'd spent so much time and likely money It'd be a waste to put it in a museum. So Mercedes finally made the decision they'd likely regret. and once again, the Germans had reentered the field. determined upon a repeat performance of their There is but one darkest day of motorsports On June 11th, 1955, at the 23rd running of the 24 Hours of Le made by racing drivers in the heat of the moment 80 lives. That miserable day and minds of everyone in the automotive industry It had etched a wound in Mercedes hearts Vowing never to return to Cirque De La Sarthe But the success of the CLK GTR the three pointed star to return in 1998. The problem is Cirque De La Sarthe features and fastest stretches of tarmac in the world. And while the CLK GTR AMG knew it wouldn't But the team didn't have time from the ground up, to adapt the CLK to the new environment. AMG revised the aerodynamics of the car for a more reliable V8 from the Sauber C nine. The field of the 1998 Nissan's ultra rare r 390 a field of Porsche's 911 GT1's there were McLaren F1s vipers, and among them Toyota had entered three of the new Gt-One Supercars, including one driven by the drift King. Keiichi Tsuchiya But as the qualifying sessions came to a close, and the CLK LM atop the rankings Bernd Schneider would pilot his LM The stage was set for Mercedes to once again pump would have both LMs out of the race The team was still happy with the pace they'd set and apply it to a more dedicated LeMans The CLR lower, faster and lighter. The CLR was in every way a worthy successor to the GTR. Without the homologation rules of the Gt1 class. Mercedes was able to build a race car The team abused the CLR refining, hardening Sadly, though, suited at an airport than a racetrack. Le Mans, they say, is the only reality. and the month of June seems to rush by suddenly you're at tech inspection and then qualifying is the and today, Friday, the final During qualifying for the 1999 Mark Webber was in the draft of an Audi prototype The aerodynamics caught the ambient air airborne. Webber was taken to a hospital Undeterred, got Webber out of the hospital And it happened again. Webber this time was unhurt, but it was clear that the number four CLR The question Drivers had complained So the Mercedes team contacted the head The team fitted some plastic bits and told the drivers not to follow other cars too We all see where this is going right around 4 hours into the race. Peter Drumbreck is on the heels of Toyota's GT-One screaming down the Mulsanne at around 200 miles per hour straight into the setting sun. The drivers are practically driving Drumbrecks' CLR drives over a small curbing, that it lifts him and his car 50 feet in the air, spinning three times and down a hill. The impact knocked Peter unconscious, but he quickly climbed out of the car safely. Oddly, due to Le Mans being run on public roads, before being sent to the hospital. Ain't that weird? Anyway, with visions of the disaster of the 1955 Le Mans called in the remaining tertiary CLR an embarrassing end to what was an incredible racing program. Just two years ago where Ferrar, F40s, McLaren F1s, Lotus Esprits and even my own Lister But first they were knocked sideways. With the arrival of Porsche's new 911 GT1 And then they were crushed into submission. But this, Mercedes CLK today, and maybe rightfully so, the CLK racing program is remembered But when it remained with its rubber the 1990s were creating pure gasoline fueled madness. What they created was the pinnacle of nineties of the world's most fantastic machines. Among the 911 GT1 and the F1 GTR, the CLK GTR stood triumphant, a product of unlimited budget but limited time. It was unrefined and absurd, a long, low, monstrous brute of a build, whining Built from the very machine a tracing of its own competition. It was a stolen piece of art A monster so destructive it left entire championships The only machine that could ever knock Gordon powered by a beating heart that would propel Pagani The CLK GTR was one of the last great that opened the gates to the era of the Hypercar. Its absurdity, their inspiration. Nothing was as brutal, as wanton, as this wild beast today. Road going examples are kept in climate controlled only seeing the light of day Ferocious monsters tamed and hidden, never tasting the blood Their spirits kept in bondage in quiet prisons, crying to be unleashed show the world that the company had finally pierced it In 1997. Thanks for watching to the end my friend.