There is direct contact with the enemy, morale is rising, it is already becoming a little more fun. Greetings to all, Battalion K-2. It is the month of April, fierce battles are taking place along the entire front line of our country. Now, for viewing, we would like to provide several videos where the enemy in mechanized columns is trying to break through our line of responsibility, you will see battles on armored vehicles, battles on foot, assault battles to recapture positions, to repel the enemy from our territory and destroy them. I wish you health, we are the K-2 Battalion, today you will see the second day of the enemy's big assault on our trenches The second day of the assault, it was around 5:30-5:40, of course we were already expecting the column to leave in the morning. Our guns were already pointed, so we started to meet the column in advance. As always, standard, you need to kill the infantry, then the tanks hitting the road, an MT-LB was damaged there. We had a very difficult night, there was a lot of artillery shelling from the enemy side. We tried, mined, even the sappers climbed into the field, not much, but we laid a little minefield. Also, our night sides were also mined. Column 6 went units, as usual, 2 tanks and 4 MT-LB or BMP Yes, it was the arrival of an anti-tank missile There was a hit, but it was not stopped There was a miss of our ATGM Yes, the first anti-tank mine went off and Javelin hit the first tank Calculation Javelin reported the launch and coincided with the hit in the tank. My call sign is Wulf, deputy platoon commander, junior sergeant. At 4:40, the artillery began to work, after which a full-scale assault began. Tanks and MT-LB went with infantry to our trench line went to their posts, to help and reinforce those people who were already standing there They ran there , the artillery was working and the armor from the forest went. by tanks MT-LB with infantry approached the trenches under the cover of tanks. At such a time it is difficult to meet columns, light dawn, a lot of dust from the equipment, a lot of smoke from the artillery. Here we see that the tank drives right into the trench. To be honest, I thought that he might fall into the trench, because the visibility was poor Everything begins to land, the tank covers its infantry After that the first MT-LBs landed the infantry and the battle in the trenches began We were divided into two groups, the first group went to the aid of the post where the enemy was landing infantry There were 8-10 people in the MT-LB, everything is as the book says, they brought a platoon All the infantry went into the trench, because of the topography of the area it was difficult to meet them there during the landing The enemy went between the positions, it was possible to clamp them from both sides, no in a hurry, they had nowhere to go, either to accept the battle, or to the field and run away. We can also see the work of the enemy artillery, it is trying to knock out our left front edge The enemy is already in the trench, but not all of them are visible on the video, part of them immediately ran into the dugout. Company gave the command withdraw from this dugout a little higher. Because there were much more enemies and a tank, so there was a command to withdraw to the upper position. One brave guy, although there were about 8 people at the post, one of them probably couldn't stand it and ran to kill the ka*aps. You can't take away courage But here, I remember, the company officer started shouting on the radio to urgently return to his own, because there was no command to move forward. There was a command to entrench and hold positions so that the enemy could not advance further. Our artillery could not work because it was too close to ours there was a high risk. Also, our FPVs went up in the air, the sides. Here you can see how the enemy with a 122-mm or 152-mm caliber almost hit them. When we were commanded to move away, we began to include the 120-mm mortar in the work. At first there were two sniper shots from the left from the trenches, bit by bit the commander of the mortar battery pulled up, because a rifle battle in a trench is very difficult. You can see how the enemy begins to drag his wounded man, our infantry mowed him down with a grenade It can be seen that Autel flew up, with a good 700-gram bomb and Staiger, the Hero of Ukraine, did a great job He has a lot of experience in resettling. Rotny was ordered to create three groups and slowly start clearing the trenches together with drones. But not immediately, about an hour later, we planned to advance from both sides and displace the enemy so that they run out into the field and catch them there. The enemy did wisely, he saw success, made his way. Perhaps the group was already waiting for another platoon in the trenches, or perhaps they gathered a reserve quickly two MT-LBs. It can be seen that our guys, knowing that there was an enemy on their left, still took out RPGs and worked on the technique. Here the enemy also acted correctly in a military manner, he did not drive to the same point where the first landing party was, but decided expand the area of the captured area by 100-150 meters to the right to stretch our forces. The second batch of armor also MT-LB with infantry landed between my post and the neighboring post and we also started a battle in the trenches. They jumped into the trench, took up a position and tried to advance further. All MT-LBs are sheathed with grills, tires, everything possible so that they are not pierced by FPV Well, that they would go so defiantly, no one expected for sure We thought that they would go, but on completely different roads Not so defiantly, through the field, they surprised everyone Here we see two skids, this is our Vampire, a heavy night drone. They flew in with cluster munitions, there was no practice of using this drone in the daytime before. It is very large, it is easy to shoot down, but in this situation it could bring four large cluster bombs And it was the sense, risking such a side, to work on the infantry. The trenches are good, wide and there is nowhere to hide except for the dugouts. And most of the dugouts were under our control. The enemy had several killed and wounded in this cluster at once. This is good, because the enemy immediately panics, the terrain they especially don't know here. At this moment, the company commander begins to command, accompanied by Mavik, the right group began to move and push the enemy closer to the center. Step by step, corner by corner, the company commander gave commands, did not let the soldiers rush, there was nowhere to rush But it was necessary to clean up it is already necessary, because the enemy could pull up more reserves, I will say this, at first, when the enemy's artillery is working, you cannot do anything, and at this moment you hear that the infantry is already approaching you in the trenches, morale is there, but it is not as high as it needs to be, but when the artillery stops working a little and there is already direct contact with the enemy, morale rises, it becomes a little more fun . to go somewhere or do something extra without a team. The enemy artillery could not work, because it would have arrived, either by ours or by theirs. Only the experience of the infantry that was in the trench had an effect here, and this unit is really strong, strong sergeants and tank platoon commanders it's very scary when it works, because the tank has moved to a combat position, it sees the trench line, it sees where the observation points are approximately, that is, they understand that there are people at the observation points and they start working. That is, the tank and also &quot;Grady&quot; are scary, the last time , when I was working with an anti-tank missile, it was very unpleasant to sit on a mountain when half a packet of &quot;Gradiv&quot; was lying next to me, such a feeling And what did you work with? Did you pick up something from &quot;Fagot&quot; then? Yes, a tank. It was also all very spontaneous and sharp. During the battle, when they blew up, they ran to the post and when the columns had already left, they had to work very quickly, under artillery fire, but they worked out and did everything. I saw my hit, but then, when he already started burning, it was already completely different I felt joy, I felt that I sat under fire for a reason, aimed, sat on the mountain for a reason At this moment, we still decided to pull our men back to work with a 120-mm mortar, because the enemy there were many in the trenches and he suffered heavy losses there. The 120-mm mortar is working, Myroslav, battery commander. Here are shown many wounded, they have no mood to move on. It was a drop into the trench. It is good here, although it was 80-90 meters from ours here. a dangerous distance for 120-mm, well done artillery, our mortar battery, fired accurately, because here you can't make a mistake. This direct hit of the mortar into the crowd, they were also covered with earth here, the infantry radioed that there was a lot of shouting. Here the running begins. Whoever was smarter tried to escape from the trench. No evacuation came after them, we thought maybe some MT-LB would come, but nothing happened. Here our group is already approaching. Kyiv group A very brave guy, he has powerful commanding qualities, he has been in assaults several times. Here, from the drone, we saw that the enemy was removing his armor, wanting to surrender. Kyiv was commanded to be taken prisoner, because we needed a &quot;tongue&quot;, how can we twist Three or four people entered our dugout, it was decided not to storm it. It was dangerous, God forbid, one of our people could be injured. We decided to simply destroy this dugout. A Vampire flew up, these are his first fragmentation bombs, we thought of throwing a few pieces under the entrance, the roof to break through We thought we might get hurt and they would panic and start to fall Good hits, but they sat further, we had their Boafeng walkie-talkie, as if some kind of Chinese walkie-talkie It was heard that they were in a panic, shouting that a heavy drone was working on them They constantly had the command to hold the position. This is the second stage, a tough decision was already made to drop a TM-62 anti-tank mine on them. I think the feeling there was magical. As a result, one prisoner was taken, two infantry platoons and several armored vehicles were destroyed. Join the gathering, support Battalion K- 2