Where would you put the most dangerous prisoner to to keep him locked down? Barbed wire, steel Inside his cell, how many liberties and basic down while still keeping him alive? At what point We've all seen Alcatraz. A huge looming block icy, and the currents are vicious. Even if you the island, you'd drown or be thrown against the What if we told you that there's a prison that's for its utter inescapability, where prisoners two concrete rooms, never breathing fresh air, where you send the men so dangerous that human Welcome to Florence ADMAX. Nicknamed the Alcatraz of the Rockies, this Colorado, to be for the worst of the worst. Go see watchtowers dotting the landscape. In you'll see sunlight glinting off the scopes of are hidden pressure pads. Sweeping the area detecting any kind of motion. A team the grounds constantly, ready to chase But before we can even use you need to consider what's on the wire fences encircling the whole facility. day and night. Motion detectors watch most of can bet will be covered by the extensive network There are no external windows to bust a few inches and equally as thick. Your the doors. Should be doable. There are only The concept of breaking out of Florence ADMAX is about as close to impossibility as it of the US military to get in or out of Looking at it from above, we can see the different &quot;Delta,&quot; &quot;Echo,&quot; &quot;Fox,&quot; and &quot;Golf&quot; where most of Then there's the Special Housing Unit (SHU), may be moved temporarily as punishment for bad Beyond the SHU is the Control Unit, where gang followers as well as the kind of prisoners who you'll find some of the most notorious gang James 'Little Jimmy' Marcello, who has loan sharking and murder, is neighbors with Gangsters and the United Blood Nation while in man on the block: Joaquin Archivaldo Guzman Loera. Under his rule, the Cartel raked in at Experts have estimated that around 25% of Mexico come through El Chapo's ring. Chicago branded him as 'Public Enemy Number That's got to be the worst of the worst right there. You can't get much higher Wrong. Beyond the Control Unit "H" Unit. It's here that America sends people who have special rules and regulations made In these cells, you will find some of and serial killers in US history. was here all the way up to 2021. Past his cell, without parole is The Shoe Bomber, Richard flight in 2001 with an explosive in his shoe. Phillip Hanssen is serving 15 consecutive Seeing the conditions in Guantanamo Bay, it's the United States prison system, but that's final stage in this supermax prison. The most But no. There is one more. Prison officers describe the place as 'a in the whole complex, it has just four prison's 30-year history, we only publicly And it is here we will find a prisoner so designed because of his actions. The prisoner who in solitary confinement in US prison history - solitary for 43 years. It's the former leader of We'll give you a tour of his we should dive into what one man can possibly do all human contact for the rest 'Terrible Tom' Silverstein was born California. Even before he was born, Virginia, was having an affair with a Tommy claimed that Thomas Conway was his of what led Virginia to divorce her husband and Born Thomas Conway, named after the little boy didn't have long to get used to The marriage broke down, and by Tommy's man named Sid Silverstein. Silverstein adopted but it was clear from a young age that Tommy Virginia was a drinker. The more she something Thomas would become more familiar was a time when he had wet the bed. His paper cup from the kitchen. She demanded She warned him that this was going to happen Silverstein was incredibly timid growing up, always shying away from other kids and not having heard the Jewish surname Silverstein and him. This anti-semitic bullying started from one day with a bloody nose, which was The next day, Virginia waited outside the she grabbed the boy and held him still, demanding could. Tommy did what he was told. The next snatching Tommy on his way home, but the in a drunken rage, Virginia took Tommy to Gary's Virginia would frequently beat and humiliate her below the waist and bend over for a beating. even harder. The lesson she was doing her best the solution, and any kind of vulnerability was It was Tommy's job to do the worst jobs would defecate everywhere, so she decided it was as he was doing the job, the dog bit him on fly into a rage. He hauled the dog outside lynching the animal to within an inch of its Tommy let go and cradled the dog in his arms At that moment, looking down at the dog, Tommy saw as he felt like a monster for what he'd done, of revenge. That dog was smaller than him; for the Sure enough, once Tommy got to high school, the and soon towered over his mom. Just before his bedroom in the middle of the night. He knew to the weapon, peering at it in the light from Reaching out a trembling hand, Tommy took the gun, surprised by how heavy it was. Quietly as where she and Sid were lying fast asleep. Tommy of the bed. Looking down at her from his new Gently as he could, he raised the shotgun chin. His hands were trembling, but He pulled the trigger. Click. The gun was empty. Tommy let out a shaky breath, and put it back where he'd found he didn't talk about what had happened, of peace. He could do it. He knew that now. He From that moment on, he fought back. He wouldn't He'd fight with Sid whenever the man would try to Tommy had never seen Sid as his real father. who, for much of his life, Everybody was poor, but Thomas Conway always Tommy Silverstein got roped into a chain of Thomas Conway was in the robbery game. Armed crew with him to hit target spots hard and he brought along Tommy as a new recruit, and Tommy was locked up in San Four years later, Tommy got paroled, but he committed to the job, going out for another when they got caught, the sentence repeat offender for armed robbery, Tommy years. A young man now, he wouldn't be When he was to get out, what he be? Starting your life at 38 with childhood trauma, and the life experience For all intents and purposes, Tommy's life became limits of his existence, and, like an animal Tommy was sent to prison in Leavenworth, inside, Tommy found acceptance in the Aryan for kids thinking he was Jewish, now he was the so heroin usage was rampant in the in trafficking it around, a job he It wasn't Tommy's first experience like this. California Youth Authority reformatory, a facility from their ways before it was too late. The talking about the place near the end of his the lessons he'd learned as a kid. In his own But one day, in Leavenworth, somebody said refused to be a heroin mule for the Aryan the only way he knew how. He stabbed while this conviction was later overturned evidence against Silverstein were lying, it was confinement at USP Marion, Illinois, with a He was placed in the Control Unit, essentially deemed to be a highly disruptive and dangerous his cell that would be on permanently so that the thing. He struggled to sleep and reported that the In 1981, Silverstein was on trial again. This a member of the DC Blacks Gang. Much like his which Silverstein had strenuously denied for all throughout the prison, which was only made worse was transferred from another prison entirely and With the trial still dragging on, Raymond and immediately made threats that he was going got. Silverstein protested his innocence, but did little to keep the two men apart; deliberately putting the men together all the And sure enough, it happened. Silverstein, along with his friend Clayton then paraded his body up and down showing everybody in prison exactly what they with. You're either the bully or the victim. Another life sentence was added to his would never be a free man again. So he got used painting. But little did he know that this was United States prisons have a rule that any murder is to be confiscated and destroyed. Tommy for what we may never know. The officer Tommy hate the man for taking his artwork been harassing him and bullying him without So he decided to do something about it. Walking behind Clutts one day, Tommy had key to his cuffs and a shank. He to death before the other officers could his friend Clayton Fountain did the The prison was placed on lockdown getting out of control fast. Prison stabbings it was often seen as an acceptable casualty. That started stabbing guards, that could start the entire facility. If prisoners suddenly able to be killed, what's to stop them The prison system needed to send a message. USP Marion's lockdown was indefinite, lasting to Atlanta, where he was placed in instructions that he was to have 'zero larger pieces were starting to fall into place. a new supermax prison in Florence, Colorado, Silverstein was in his cell 23 hours a until all of a sudden, his door was opened. taken control of the prison in what became unlocked Silverstein's cell and allowed where he eventually found the guards Silverstein knelt down in front of one of them the Cubans were growing nervous. These guards were to be killed, they'd have nothing the facility and putting the riot to the guard Silverstein was talking to was his asking Silverstein if his handcuffs were Wiping the sweat from their brows, the Cubans negotiation team outside before he could Leavenworth for 18 years until, eventually, the But fortunately, a new facility was up and prisons in all of human history, with and deterrence. ADX Florence, At this point, Tommy Silverstein had already but in Florence, it was about Welcome to Tommy Silverstein's cell in Range 13. Every inch of this cell has been minimum possible to sustain human life and to outside world. The cell is just 3.5m x 2m or 7ft curved wall amounts to 80 square feet. That's the The bed is made from concrete. There's also made from concrete. The toilet also concrete. There is an open shower in the any shower will inevitably wet the bedding. The On the wall at the head of the bed is a window. thick reinforced glass. In reality, it's Tommy Silverstein was to spend 23 hours there the door. The instructions from his previous For the other hour in his day, he was taken This room had marginally more space inside. It was just an empty room. The to having 'outdoor' time was a If Tommy behaved, he would be given books white TV. He could have two phone calls per But there is a big question that we haven't houses prisoners like El Chapo and the Unabomber, was locked up for armed robbery and committed crimes, but they pale in comparison to running a The truth is that Tommy Silverstein prison officer talking to author "When an inmate kills a guard, he must be so we have no choice but to make other inmates will kill guards, too. Every convict knows what Silverstein is that if they cross the same line that Silverstein's case is a controversial one. is extreme. Over the course of his lifetime, Tommy conditions, eclipsing the sentences of people who and shown less remorse. As humans, we tend to but it is clear that the 'who' of Silverstein's had killed another prisoner, no one would have he's now infamous and the subject of The prison system, rightly or wrongly, individual to make him a symbol for other out of line. Much like all of Silverstein's the biggest and strongest. You are either the prison system has chosen to be the these facilities where guards exercise their Tommy Silverstein, by the end of his life, openly over the phone about how self-reflection, he had caused and the errors of his previous to campaign for reform to prevent what was This begs the question of what prison is convicts? To educate them and show them right from wrong so that they can be released Or is it there to punish them? To serve justice a deterrent to scare others off from doing the or is it for those outside? To help the and scare the criminals straight Tommy Silverstein had his "Even though we may not execute people by our government leaders bury people alive more human to execute someone than it is to It's hard to know the kind and fury that could drive somebody to these prisoners are responsible. For many licking out of the windows of a burning inside. Their actions are the lashings-out Any of us would find it unbearable to be than a few days. Imagine how it would with only that kind of mind for company Would death be less cruel? At what point what point do the men punishing Now check out "Man So Violent Even Other Prisoners Fear Him and Other Insane Prison