Here's a wild story I've been looking into. Weed isn't even federally legal yet, but giant corporations for consumers, for workers, Trulieve, the largest cannabis company over 50% of the legal cannabis market If you combine them with their two for example, they sold enough weed in 2022 to give every Floridian seven joints. You are basically Is there any type of goal there? Yeah, that's it. You could be using their products They create brands that evoke small brands trustworthy celebrities like Wiz Khalifa these guys are. Trulieve built an empire by exploiting using their power to create those mistakes of well-meaning programs. For example, somehow got the only minority- And they're already working to do the same Do you have a lot of lobbyists Yes. Yes, we do. The Trulieve story shows us shouldn't be run, This is the Class Room from More Perfect Union. And today we're talking about how to stop big industry Let's go back to the last time to make a substance illegal The repeal of Prohibition. Incredibly influential businessmen had once supported Prohibition. When they saw it simply wasn't working, Rockefeller specifically took a surprising stance for one of the most bloodthirsty He wrote, quote, "Only as the profit motive is eliminated is there any hope of controlling the liquor traffic And that's coming from a dude Back in the thirties, antitrust - that's preventing monopolies So in an attempt to keep the alcohol they implemented a tier system. No one company could be the manufacturer, distributor Now, giant but the problem could have been way worse But let's look at weed, first legalization In 2014, the Florida state legislature to legalize certain low The bill wasn't written by a progressive but by Matt Gaetz, then a member Yeah, that guy. It was boosted by strong supporter Medical cannabis laws are complicated an entire industry There need to be regulations on everything During the debates on the bill, an amendment was added by Representative to get a license to grow must already have approval and have operated as a registered nursery Thirty years. The amendment also added requirements and capital, requiring wannabe licensees $5 million in cash as assurance Who could possibly meet Well, there was Simpson Nurseries, opened in 1902. Simpson Nurseries Yeah, that guy, To fully meet the qualifications, with Hackney Nurseries, The combined partnership that Florida gave out after that bill. The combined company was Trulieve. But wait, there's Beshears being involved isn't enough. Where would His family was supposedly, quote, "opposed" Well, like so many great scandals, In 2016, a Florida businessman for a number of crimes, and undercover FBI He bragged to the FBI agents worked through the bill with a childhood friend of his over and convinced him Those little tweaks were the amendment that broke the whole cannabis law, At the time, Today, they're married Do you have a lot of lobbyists Yes. Yes, we do. Burnette and Rivers don't come from criminal justice or even retail, a firm notorious for using government It's also invested in Trulieve. Burnette and Rivers were also involved and used their own companies Florida's first cannabis law Trulieve, were built on corrupt, anti-competitive practices by people But this is by no means limited to Florida The lobbying for federal legalization companies and large and Amazon has endorsed What's really important to notice because they want So all they have to ask This is Shaleen Title, who's been instrumental She was also a commissioner the body formed to regulate cannabis So when I served as a regulator, Lobbying is something that anybody can do, but it tends to be the larger corporations to really closely and then to come to the regulators And the industry is taking notes They have front groups claiming to represent their own interests, the corporation's. But back to Trulieve. They had a little problem. In other states, the licensing structure like them, meaning it was very hard But they had something those other So they just started buying and their licenses in other states. This strategy is deadly for small businesses By 2021, through a series of acquisitions Harvest Health, It also allows Trulieve That's where they own every part The very same thing knew would monopolize the alcohol industry. Trulieve's size over their workers, all while workers are dying Twenty-seven year old Trulieve worker ruled to be occupational asthma due Trulieve denied all responsibility Because cannabis is such a young business, how it'll be run yet. This isn't oil. This isn't tobacco Any of the other exploitative businesses This is something new. New York has been that has learned lessons First, they focused on social equity, which means that they gave and to people But then the second thing that they did So in New York, New York also has pro-labor provisions, peace agreements for acquiring licenses. Because New York has put they've also got, in my observation, a whole campaign really to represent when in fact it has taken And even the most well-meaning regulations Like I said earlier, the only minority So that tells us what we should look for outright legalizes cannabis. But let's get back to reality. President Biden That means moving it down from Schedule I, where it sits with cocaine But while rescheduling cannabis might get Biden a quick win in the polls, and could give big cannabis business It's a step in the wrong direction, Schedule III would only protect products that have been approved by the FDA. So that's a process years, millions of dollars. And only the biggest companies The big guys also have resources legal status to shut down the little guys But here's the thing. We just spent all this time and they may not even be the real problem here. So I have likened this to dinosaurs squabbling when the asteroid is coming. Right now we have cannabis businesses They're competing to see who can do But there's this asteroid, which is the Altria's market cap is bigger than And it goes even bigger. Amazon has been supporting and I highly doubt just really want to stop people And our friends at Trulieve have been Just legalization is essentially handing If you care about public health, you have to ask for all of these things because in the end, if we end up that are making all of the profits and perhaps lying to consumers and the environment, then I'm not sure