Oh boy! Here comes the smoke. It is AliExpress time and for those who are online shop where you can order stuff directly What makes it special though is that mostly most interesting items when it comes to electronics But then again, there is also lots of garbage be testing 6 more products from AliExpress out or simply ignore them. Let's get started! Don't skip this ad from Keysight if you like the Lab is back for 2023 and it's now a bi-monthly You can sign up today using my link below; break down conventional PCB design wisdom in extreme situations; like what happens when Sign up now to find out and for your chance If you use my link you'll get an extra entry just for my viewers who use this link. The first item I got this time was a viewer a USB port of a computer it basically still stuff and it can also transfer data like usual. Because what we are looking at is actually 6EUR. Like the name implies the input and output easy to spot because my Multimeter didn't But to still get data from one side to the Isolator that can handle 2500V for about a I said that specifically because the headline 3000V and the datasheet 2500V, I guess 3 values But anyway to get power from one side to the is most certainly a 5V DC Isolated Power Supply. OK; now that we know what the board can do, Well, the first example that came to my mind system consisting of such a small amp and As you can hear the amp amplifies unwanted receiver because they share the same power But by using the USB isolator we can get rid audio system now works flawlessly. Another very similar example is when utilizing also loves to capture the noise inside of But once again by using the USB isolator we And remember these USB Killers ElectroBoom Isolator could save your computer in such So all in all a pretty nifty product if you The only downsides are that it noticeably only draw around 200mA through it before the But aside from that I would recommend it. Now I ordered the next two products after those products are electrically heated gloves And long story short they both work remarkably of a fire hazard they would be because high not mix so well. So let's start off with the gloves that I They come with two not so confidence inspiring meaning you can charge both batteries simultaneously. What I immediately noticed though was the meaning when charging the batteries you basically dangerous if one of them is more charged up So needless to say I charged up the batteries I put them inside the gloves, turned them of course measured the temperature on the while using all three heating modes and compared and I have to say they only exaggerated a So next I took apart one battery pack and to use a more sturdy enclosure. But other than that it seems like a proper Before my final judgment though I of course out that the heated wire was well secured the given battery voltage; that can only happen But all in all due to the not well protected I would still not recommend this product. Now the socks on the other hand which I got for the battery and also featured a proper charging. Other than that they also worked pretty well, temperature and run time and the construction a fire hazard when I am cranking up my lab So all in all I would actually recommend them But moving on to the next product which is around 9EUR. Now I think when it comes to sensing presence that turn on their outputs as soon as someone adjust the distance at which the sensor reacts. So the question is why would you want to use Well according to its product description non moving humans, it can also penetrate through exactly the system should react. That all sounds pretty awesome, so I downloaded the board to my computer and gave it all a though. But in a nutshell we only care about the moving each number on the X-Axis represents a distance pretty self explanatory. To test this I prepared a basic setup in my the wall and monitored on my computer what standing around at different distances. And I got to say I was rather impressed because were not only very reactive but also unexpectedly And yes, it also works through non metal barriers. And since the sensor communicates via UART meaning that for me it is a definite recommendation customizable PIR sensor alternative. With that being said; here comes the last Relay that I got for around 15EUR. It can be mounted inside most European breaker circuits using your smartphone or what I was So to test it I simply powered it via Mains if you are not a professional. After then downloading the required App, I turn on and off all kinds of appliances. Now of course you can set schedules, timers is all fine and good. But what I didn't like was that they pretty to use this relay with Google, Alexa or like But on the plus side after taking it apart I honestly doubt that this relay is really So all in all I would personally not recommend and want to switch only small loads then this And just like that we come to the last product around 23EUR. I got interested in it after I did my RFID out whether it could be a good lock alternative I mean according to its product description 0.001% so 1 in every 100.000 attempts, not To test it I wanted to connect it to an Arduino does not come with a fitting pinout diagram. By googling the IC number however I eventually matter how often I tried or with what pins, it. After spending lots of time on this I could a slightly different fingerprint reader that description. And after hooking this one up, it worked on my fingerprint in the reader and then use additional blue LED. At this point I did an excess of amount of triggers on this one specific finger and I Even after programming in another fingerprint the reader never triggered falsely, very nice. So all in all I can definitely recommend this project for it in mind. But for now my testing session is over and than negative products, awesome. Of course there is lots more good stuff and the lookout for the next episode in this video If you enjoyed it so far then consider supporting As always don't forget to like, share, subscribe Stay creative and I will see you next time.