(metal clanking) (mellow dramatic music) (metal clanking) (mellow dramatic music) (people speak indistinctly) - I am the longest guest of Indian government. (mellow dramatic music) - I haven't seen my country, Tibet. 1.2 million Tibetans been killed by Chinese, and no one is looking into that as a serious matter. - I have lost my husband, lost my mom, lost my dad, and I couldn't see my kids for nine years. (children exclaim) (children squealing) - Over 70 years, more suppression, more determination, Tibetan people. (metal clanking) (mellow dramatic music) - We have to be very careful, otherwise, my family in Tibet can face problem. - Every Tibetan family goes through this or worse. - America will not fight with China in order to liberate Tibet. (mellow dramatic music) - Now Tibet is totally devastated. Tibet is gone. (mellow dramatic music) (air whooshing) (people chanting melodically) (air whooshing) (people speak indistinctly) - [Attendant] (indistinct) Boarding pass, please come forward for boarding. Emerald, sapphire and ruby, will board (indistinct). Please come forward for boarding. (somber violin music) (indistinct) Now boarding. - My name is Sonam, and I was born and raised in India to parents that were refugee. Escaped Chinese invasion in Tibet in 1959, and we maintain refugee status for all my life. (somber emotive music) It's very difficult, in a sense, even though nobody's torturing us or nobody is threatening us or anything, but mentally, you are refugee. (somber emotive music) (somber violin music) We don't have status. Who we are, right? We're not Indian because we're refugee in India, but we are not in Tibet, even though we're Tibetan, but we're not in Tibet. It's very confused life. (somber emotive music) (Sonam exhales) (mellow dramatic music) (wings flapping) (air whooshing) (engine chugging) (horn honks) (singer vocalizing) - [Narrator] India is one of Tibet's closest neighbors and oldest allies. It has given asylum to His Tibet's spiritual leader, and at least 100,000 Tibetans who now reside in 39 refugee Escaping Chinese invasion, Tibetan refugees keep coming to India through the Himalayan Mountains, risking everything for freedom. For over 70 years, a nation in exile has been struggling to find justice and resolution. (person chanting) (mellow dramatic music) (air whooshing) Tibet is often called the Rooftop of the World. Due to it being situated in the highest region of the Himalayan Mountains It has always been a legendary kingdom of peace and tranquility. Its people are deeply attached to their religion and their way of life. Their creed is tolerance, love of animals and nature, and belief in the spiritual equality of all beings. In 1950, Tibet was occupied In 1959, China made a threatening move against His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama, which caused the people's rebellion to explode in full force. The protest was brutally suppressed. Thousands were executed. The Dalai Lama had to escape to India. (somber emotive music) (footsteps thudding) (prayer wheels rattling) (mellow piano music) (prayer wheels rattling) - My parents has to flee Tibet because Chinese were, what I understood from my parents, is they were going door to door, destroying everybody's property, and apparently, killing everyone at the same time. So they were scared and just bundle up few things and just ran away overnight. And then my grandma passed away on the middle of the jungle in crossing the mountain. It's not like you cross overnight, it's like weeks and weeks, right, when you are crossing. And at some point they ran out of rations. And because my dad was farmer, he looked for roots, where is there to dig in some roots that he can boil and eat, right, for survival. And that's how he did crossing the mountain to India. (somber emotive music) - I usually telling the struggle is struggle between truth and weapon. The force, our side, force of truth. The Chinese side, Chinese communist side, is the power of gun. So for short period, power of gun is very effective, but long run, power of truth is much stronger. (birds chirping) (wings flapping) (birds chirping) (wings flapping) - [Narrator] This scenic landscape used to be an uncultured jungle. The Indian government gave this land to the Tibetan refugees so they could start over. The strong community built several settlements with sufficient farms, schools, and monasteries to carry on their identity and culture in exile. Unfortunately, the harsh traditional ways of life and impoverishment don't appeal to the younger generations, leaving half empty villages guarded by the elders. (singer vocalizing emotively) - This house has a lot of memory. I was born and raised in here. It just brings me back to my childhood. (wind whooshing) (grass crunching) (birds cawing) So it's sad to see this place in this situation. But this is life, what can you do? (birds chirping) Any chance I get, I come back to this rundown house. (Sonam chuckles) Happy memories. I think I will come back until I turn into ashes. (dog barks) (birds cawing) (door rattling) (birds cawing) (light switch clicking) (birds cawing) (light switch clicking) Nothing is working. (birds chirping) (Sonam sighs) (light switch clicking) No light. (footsteps shuffling) (bag scraping) (Sonam exclaims) This is it, guys. These are the bed that my father made. And these are the dining table we used to have. See, still solid. And my dad used to make this kind of bed. (hand tapping) Very solid wood. (hand tapping) Yeah. Oh gosh. (lock creaks) (hinges creaking) 30 years, nobody lives here, 30 years. (footsteps shuffling) Wow. (glass clinking) (object thuds) My dad made this. (birds cawing) (hinges creak) My father made this. (keys jingling) (Sonam sniffling) (keys jingling) (dog barking) (somber emotive music) (Sonam sniffling) (somber emotive music) (wind gusting) (rain pattering) - [Narrator] Dharamshala is the hillside city on the edge of the Himalayas in Northern India. (rain pattering) It is often called Little Tibet as it became a heart of Tibetan education, culture, and national heritage. (emotive piano music) (metal clinking) Dharamshala is an official residence of His Holiness the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan government in exile. Unfortunately, Little Tibet is rapidly losing its unique identity. Fewer Tibetans are coming from Tibet due to tightened border security by China and more are leaving to go abroad. Tibetan refugees in India still don't have formal refugee status and are considered foreigners, which limits their opportunities dramatically. Economic hardships force them to seek their fortune elsewhere. (rain pattering) (person speaks foreign language) - We need a sense of oneness of human being. Mentally, emotionally, physically, and all human being have True, all same human being. One human being due to you see, expel and torture. See that, very sad, very sad. So I think the refugee problem (rain pattering) (people speak indistinctly) (horn tooting) (somber emotive music) - [Narrator] Escaping Tibetan the most precious things More than 100,000 precious Tibetan manuscripts, ancient history books, and And are now being carefully kept at the Library of Tibetan Works The majority of what was (mellow soothing music) - Now today, Tibet, you see, occupied by Chinese communist. Very aggressively, they try their best to eliminate Tibetans' unique cultural heritage. And sometime, even they try to eliminate Tibetan language. (mellow soothing music) (object thudding) - This is the words of Buddha, one of the Sutra texts, which is called in Sanskrit, and in Tibetan title, (speaks foreign language), and in English, &quot;The Sutra of Perfection of Wisdom.&quot; And this sutra and text is in Tibetan Buddhism. And you can see here this, especially this text, and this is quite old, from 13th century, probably 13th century. And you can see here in the very earlier period of publication in Tibet, they have holes here. So it shows the very authentic sources and also some of the calligraphies. And they have some letters, Some, they have little And some of the grammatical way of writings are a little bit changed from today's writing. (mellow soothing music) - And now Chinese communists, they say, oh, Tibet is always part of China. But that, according some Chinese historian, they say since Tang dynasty until Manchu dynasty in Chinese history book never mentioned Tibet as part of China. So now it's quite culturally, and even geographically separate, China and Tibet. - Then we have some legal documents, which is printed in the silk cloths. You can find seal stamp. The legally documents, they official documents. And then the 6th Dalai Lama give this legal document to the Dechen Monastery. The calendar of this date back from 1683 to 1706. (bell dinging) (people speaking foreign language) (object thuds) (object scraping) - I met a very old lady in Dharamshala. She was resting after the Lingkhor. Lingkhor is the round you make for the temple to pray. I went to see her, I sat next to her and we were chatting. Instantaneously, I feel connected to her, remind me of my own mother. And then when she was telling me her own story, she's old now, she don't have any kids. But thank God to Dalai Lama's sister, Jetsun Pema la, she have helped her to put it in a retirement home. So she is looked after now and she's very happy and grateful for that. But why I am bringing this up, is Tibetan situation, especially older people are still struggling. (somber emotive music) (singer vocalizing melodically) Sorry, I'm seeing my parents. I'm going back to how my parents struggle. (somber emotive music) I think kids don't get share of the land to crop to, you know, as a farmer, I think the older people, so we only have three acre. But that's more than enough for my father to live on. So we all live on the crop that we have worked on in the field. That's how my parents raise all the kids. And that's how we survive. And when we go to school, we have two months holiday in summertime. It's planned that way so that kids can help the parents to work in the field. And we go, whatever, go with my father and mom, work in the field day and you know, all day night. (branch scraping) (singer vocalizing) (singer vocalizing melodically) (person speaks foreign language) - Yeah. - [Translator] I remember your father very well. He was a good man and a devoted friend of mine. (person speaks foreign language) - [Translator] This is his three acre field right here. - Whoa (speaks foreign language). - [Translator] I'm happy to still be able to work on it. (Sonam speaks foreign language) (person speaks foreign language) (Sonam speaks foreign language) (person speaks foreign language) (air rumbles) (singer vocalizing) (grass rustling) (singer vocalizing melodically) (somber emotive music) (singer vocalizing melodically) (somber emotive music) (singer vocalizing) (somber emotive music) (birds chirping) - As far as I remember, all my life, my mother and father, they always say, one day we're going back. So he always maintain that small house. Our house looks the most simplest one because he always thought we will go back. Why we get a loan and build a house when we not gonna live here? And didn't happen. So my parents passed away in India, you know, without seeing Tibet become freedom. (singer vocalizing melodically) (somber emotive music) (singer vocalizing melodically) We are second generation. So I don't know, I don't see myself seeing Tibet (indistinct). We are working on, hoping, that we will get Tibet back one day. (water gurgling) (mellow soothing music) - [Narrator] Since the and traditional art forms have fallen under the threat of extinction. The Tibetan refugee community had to reestablish them in India. The Tibetan Buddhist craft of thangka is religious painting on fabric, usually depicting a Buddhist Most thangka paintings are intended for personal meditation or It takes many years for apprentices to perfect the art of thangka. Masters used to pass on their knowledge from generation to generation. Now, these dedicated few are the last keepers of this disappearing art. (painter speaks foreign language) - [Translator] I come from Tibet to study this unique Tibetan art that has deep roots in our culture and to serve the society. (painter speaks foreign language) - [Translator] I've been studying thangka painting for over nine years now. (painter speaks foreign language) - I wish to continue to do this and earn a living from it. But as we are refugees, we don't have the liberty to be definitive about our profession and be sure about our future. (painter speaks foreign language) (mellow flute music) (mellow percussive music) (mellow flute music) (mellow percussive music) (mellow flute music) (mellow percussive music) (mellow flute music) (mellow percussive music) - My commitment regarding Tibet is, firstly, preserve Tibetan cultural heritage, including Tibetan language. That's my commitment regarding Tibet. I retired since 2001, I totally retired. We already achieved elected political leadership. (person speaks indistinctly) So we can show Chinese government, we here, handful Tibetan, but we have elected political leadership. They totalitarian system. (Dalai Lama laughing) But we are thinking the common I always attracted by European Union, it's an independent state, but for common interest, is that they create a union. So we also willing remain within the People's Republic of China as a one union. (birds chirping) (child exclaims) - [Attendant] Thank you for we are now boarding all passengers in all rows. All passengers in all rows, please proceed to gate 8A. - Situation has not been changed. As you can see, it's pretty much, it is what it is. And if I haven't left this place, I wouldn't be able to give my children a better education, better life than what I've been through as a refugee in India. This is just my story. And every different Tibetan, like me, are going through the same hardship in here. So that's why we have Tibetans refugee in all over the world looking for better life. And they work hard. I know that nobody's on the street begging and that's how Tibetan people are. They are hardworking, honest people. (somber emotive music) (air whooshing) (somber emotive music) - [Narrator] Tibetan rug making is an ancient traditional handicraft that stretches back hundreds, Taking months to complete, Tibetan carpets served different including being a precious and memorable gift. (hammer thwacking) A unique handwoven technique, high quality wool and exclusive design set Tibetan carpets apart from all the others and gives them a great value. They say that each Tibetan carpet is unique, just like a human life. Every loop represents a tangle of events and the decisions that we make. (hammer thwacking) (dog barking) - After I got married, we have three kids and I was telling my late husband, what we're gonna do, how we gonna live, right? How we're gonna survive? We did have a small carpet business. We have two carpet factories. It wasn't running well, so we talked about it. One of us has to go to get a better life, You know what I mean? Because I can't see myself giving my children the life that I had. I want them to have a better life. He didn't get the visa. And despite having three So that's when I left. Somebody has to do something, right. (person chanting) (birds chirping) (person chanting) (bells jingling) - Originally, when we come to India as a refugee, emotionally, we feel this is the, how you say, the original, the place of all our knowledge. So this is the land of Buddha, hmm. And many scholars from Nalanda, all Indian, these are real our teacher. So emotionally, very close with this country. (person chanting) (bell jingling) - [Narrator] Buddhism was introduced to Tibet around the 8th century. The Tibetan emperor, Trisong Detsen, invited one of the top Indian who brought the teaching of Nalanda Monastery is well and logical approach to studying and practicing Buddhadharma. Therefore, Tibetan Buddhism is the pure lineage of the Nalanda Monastery tradition in India. (people speak indistinctly) - Nalanda tradition, not just prayer or ritual, but serious study. 20, 30 year study. (person chanting) So then, I think Tibetan cultural heritage is based on this knowledge. So Tibetan culture, we can say, culture of compassion, culture of non-violence. That brings the Tibetan identity. And Tibetan strong spirit (people speak foreign language) - [Narrator] Buddhism is the fourth largest religion in the world. It encompasses various spiritual practices based on the teachings of Learning meditation, and philosophy, and the practice of severe asceticism, which included strict fasting and breath control. Siddhartha Gautama famously sat in meditation under the ficus tree, which and attained enlightenment in the town of Bodh Gaya. That became a sacred place for all Buddhists. For over 2000 years, millions of pilgrims have visited Mahabodhi Temple where the main Buddha image is placed in the sanctum. (people speaking indistinctly) (horn tooting) (people speaking indistinctly) (somber emotive music) - When I lived and worked in New York City, I suffered the loss of my mother, my father, and my husband. I wasn't able to go see them because my American citizenship So I didn't have any legal documents to travel. I found this place when I need it the most. I come here for refuge. I come here for all my problems. I come here to get a peace of mind, and to pray, to cry, and to get help. (somber emotive music) I come here to light butter lamps to my late mother, father, and husband. I feel like this is the place where I connect to all my people who are gone from this life. This place brings me closer (somber emotive music) That was the most difficult time, yeah. Because my dad had Alzheimer. After my mom passed away, he don't know she passed away, because he went, he was older than my mom, right. So now I know that what kind of disease he had, he had Alzheimer, he had a dementia, so to speak. He didn't know because half of the time when I call him, he don't recognize me. He passed away, and after three months, I think even not less than three months, my husband passed away. So my kids were alone now. That's when my older sister helped me put my kids into boarding school in India. (rain pattering) (mellow soothing music) (Deckey speaks foreign language) - [Translator] My younger sister, Sonam, went to the foreign country. Her husband was alive for two years after she left. After his death, it was my duty to take care of their children. I raised their three kids with two of my own. (Deckey speaks foreign language) - [Translator] As my children were already attending a boarding school in Dharamshala, I helped to enroll Sonam's kids there as well. After two years, my husband died also, and I moved to Dharamshala to take care of them. (Deckey speaks foreign language) - [Translator] Every Friday, I used to pick all five of them up to spend the weekend together and drop them off on Sunday. (Deckey speaks foreign language) (child exclaims) (people speaking indistinctly) (birds chirping) (mellow soothing music) (birds chirping) (Sonam speaks foreign language) (Deckey speaks foreign language) (Sonam and Deckey laughing) (Sonam and Deckey speaks foreign language) - [Sonam] Yeah, (speaks foreign language). (Deckey speaks foreign language) (Sonam and Deckey laughing) - [Sonam] Yeah (speaks foreign language). (Deckey speaks foreign language) (Sonam speaks foreign language) (Deckey speaks foreign language) (Sonam speaks foreign language) (Deckey speaks foreign language) (Sonam speaks foreign language) (Deckey speaks foreign language) (birds chirping) (Deckey and Sonam speaks foreign language) (birds cawing) (Deckey speaks foreign language) - [Translator] Don't cry, everything will be all right. You worked really hard and helped your children and all your relatives. You acted as a parent for us. (somber emotive music) (Deckey speaks foreign language) - [Translator] I was a single It was too much. Now, when I think about it, I wonder how I managed it all. Even with all the problems, I always kept in mind that the children were with me and they were obedient. As I raised them, I do miss them a lot now when we are apart. (Deckey speaks foreign language) - [Translator] It is a sad situation of the Tibetan diaspora. I'm not the only one. There are many facing the same problem. (Deckey sniffles) (children chatting) (birds chirping) (children exclaim) - Boarding school sounds difficult, but my kids, at least they know that I am here for them. They know that one day I will pick them up. The little one, even I think, I don't think that she remembers my face. (child laughing) Sometime when I call, I will not get to speak to them because they're doing But it's a good school. They have educate them well. They're in a discipline, which is important sometime when you're a kid, right. And I'm happy that they were in boarding school. At least I know that they're safe. So these are the things that you have to go through, refugee. If you are not a refugee, this will be not my situation. You just have to put, (hand thumps) press down everything, you have to keep your emotional, everything in a box to make it work. (somber piano music) (singer vocalizing hauntingly) (somber piano music) (singer vocalizing hauntingly) - In order to keep Tibetan issue alive, they raise Tibetan issue in important is young Tibetan including study about especially 'cause of the cultural heritage. So these Tibetan school, they Buddhist psychology, all these things. So that's way to keep culture, rich culture alive. (singer vocalizing hauntingly) (somber piano music) (people speak foreign language) - [Narrator] Tibetan Children's Village was established in 1960 and now accommodates over 8,000 students, including orphans and children from Tibet. From the very beginning, lessons have been geared towards traditional Tibetan education, especially the Tibetan language, traditional arts and music. (mellow tungna music) After years of unsuccessful with China and resolving the Tibet issue, these children are now the (mellow tungna music) (instructor humming) (mellow tungna music) - Current situation has even Tibetan children in Tibet, learning about Tibetan culture, language. They're imposing more and more restrictions, and they are trying to teach and culture, their own language. And therefore, it is causing a great concern. If this continues for many, many years, more in future, then there is a danger that Tibetans may, you know, losing ground in terms of maintaining our identity, our culture, our values (singer vocalizing hauntingly) (children exclaiming) I myself is also from Tibet, I left Tibet in 1980s. We are deprived of rights and freedom, and therefore, my parents and myself also decided to come into exile because there was no future remaining in Tibet. (children exclaiming) - [Narrator] After waves of now, Tibet faces ecocide. Today, Tibetans continue to cross the Himalayas to reach Dharamshala. Many are unaccompanied minors who undertake a risky clandestine journey with the help of smugglers. Despite the fear of hunger, parents send their children to Dharamshala, knowing that most definitely, they will never see them again. (people speak foreign language) This young man was only nine years old when he was smuggled across the border. He wants to go back to his homeland to see his parents who still live in Tibet. But unfortunately, he cannot. (rain pattering) - I think it is too hard to communicate with the parents like mothers. I know, I can feel how the mother was very, very grateful for me. That's why when we talk each other and communicate each other, I feel so happy, yeah, I feel very happy, yes, when we communicate each other. (children exclaiming) (people speak foreign language) - The hope is never lost. The spirit of Tibet will continue. People will come and go. I came here as a child, now, I am a man with gray hair. But then we have this spirit. - [Interviewer] Do you have a dream? - Yes, every Tibetan, wherever they may be, have the dream to go back to Tibetan, yeah. This is the highest kind of dream that we have. (somber emotive music) And then, apart from that dream, our dream here in the school is to, you know, to make our children better human being. So with that dream, I think there is a greater hope, and the cause of Tibet will continue until our dreams come true. Yeah. (children laughing) (person speaks foreign language) (children exclaiming) (child speaks foreign language) (child exclaims) (Tsultrim speaks foreign language) (children speak foreign language) (Tsultrim speaks foreign language) (child speaks foreign language) (Tsultrim speaks foreign language) (people speak foreign language) (child speaks foreign language) (Tsultrim speaks foreign language) (child speaks foreign language) (Tsultrim speaks foreign language) (ball thudding) (child speaks foreign language) (air whooshing) - For the longest time, I struggle as a refugee. When people ask me, &quot;Where you from?&quot; I said, &quot;I'm from Tibet. Oh, you're Chinese.&quot; Okay, I said, &quot;No.&quot; You know, and then it's like, &quot;Where you from?&quot; Then I said, &quot;I was born and raised in India. Oh, you don't look like Indian.&quot; Okay, now I can call myself Canadian and nobody ask me questions. (air whooshing) (airplane whirring) (somber emotive music) I think all refugees go through the same hardships, because wherever they go, I was in India, I tried it in the United States, but they didn't give me the status. So I had to start from zero up in Canada. But this time, it's different gave me a refugee status at the border. That's what kept me going, the hope for a better future and reuniting with my children. My kids have difficulty understanding me because we have been apart from each other for a very long time. Eight, almost nine years. They know that I'm the mother. But yeah, they have grown up without mother in a boarding school. And I have grown up myself without my children. And you know, I'm still learning myself. The older you get, I'm learning myself at the same time, who I am, what kind of person I am, right. And every day I'm learning and trying to understand my kids better. I couldn't provide the best motherly love that, you know, that you could because I was acting the father and the mother, both, for them. And at the same time, I would be very strong to be able to stand on my own foot so that I won't be burden for the country that giving me the status. If I can do it to make it to this, I think everyone can do it. Where I was from a poor, simple family and I'm standing on my own foot and helping others get a job and get help when they are not well. This is not a unique story. Parents have sacrificed so much, working any job they find to have a better life for their children. (bells jingling) (prayer wheels rumbling) (children chatting) (bells jingling) - [Narrator] The Tibetan Canadian Cultural Center was established by Tibetan Canadians to preserve, foster, and share of compassion, peace, and harmony with their fellow Canadians. It has become a vital community hub, providing space for spiritual practices and educational programs. (child speaks indistinctly) - I talk to each one of them every morning and every evening when they go home. Ask them, are you been behaving? Are you studying properly? Don't lose your identity, you are Tibetan. You cannot forget who you are, where you come from. I tell them every now and then. And not only that, we lost our country against a nation who we have nothing relationship. China and Tibet cannot be one at all. What they speak, what they write, what they read is totally different from us. Population in Tibet is three to one. Chinese three, one is Tibetan. That's how they're try to wipe His Holiness the Dalai Lama has been trying best, trying best with China, how he can at least go back to Tibet as early as possible through the Middle Way. He has asked long time ago, we don't need independence. We live like Hong Kong. But Chinese are not listening for that. It's very sad because we got to this whole world. And Chinese are not giving us any chances. They're waiting His Holiness to die. But His Holiness the Dalai Lama said he gonna live at least 110 years old. He's our god, he's our leader, he's our parents. He's everything for us, for Tibetans. (people speaks foreign language) (horns droning) (person chanting) (crowd cheering and clapping) (cymbals crashing) (confetti pops) (crowd cheering and clapping) (cymbals crashing) - Now, this over, I think, 60, 70 years, is they try their best to eliminate Tibetan culture, but completely failed. So Tibetan spirit, very strong. I think you can see small they kept, you see, our 1000 year old knowledge. And then young children, new generation, is in they also, you see, kept strong feeling being Tibetan, Tibetan spirit and including those Tibetan in Canada, settled in Canada, in America, in Europe. They all, you see, kept Tibetan spirit. (people singing in foreign language) (metal clanging) (people singing in foreign language) (metal clanging) (air whooshing) (people singing indistinctly) (flag rustling) (children speaking foreign language) (mellow soothing music) (mellow soothing music) (footsteps thudding) (child speaks foreign language) (mellow soothing music) (people chatting indistinctly) (mellow flute music) (children speak indistinctly) (dissonant flute music)