My name's Shawn Ryan. I was a Navy SEAL for 5 1/2 years. This is everything I'm You know you're going to be cold, you know you're going to get hypothermia, but at the end of the day, going to BUD/S is basically And so how do you get prepared for getting kicked in the nuts? You don't. You just take it. How do we keep each other in line? A lot of hazing. You have a tremendous responsibility being a member of a SEAL team, whether you're the communications guy or you're the lead sniper. You might be the guy planning the mission. You might be the point man. And so there is no room for jackassery. And if you're not doing your and you're clowning around, then you're going to get tuned up and maybe kicked off the team. And so, it is a very, it's very much a work hard, But if you can't play hard and work hard the next morning, you're not going to make it. When you're in the SEAL with your immediate teammates, your platoon mates, than you And so you eat with them, you hang out with them, you grieve with them. I mean, that is your family. And so you become inseparable. Home on my off time as a and a lot of ladies' and drinking booze and On deployment, an off day looks like a and a lot of Xbox. A lot of people pose as a SEAL. I've seen it happen a lot. This is, you know, this is 20 years ago. We would have the support and bragging to everybody a SEAL teammate, or SEAL Team Two. And they would go to those specific bars where SEALs hang out when That way, none of us were in But unfortunately, we know the bar staff, we know people that work there. And so that word will get around, and a lot of times they would wind up taped to the flagpole naked to work the next morning. The No. 1 unspoken rule for the SEAL teams was work hard, play hard. As long as you could show up to work ready to go, pristine condition, they did not care how hard you played. Some of the jobs I had as a SEAL was, one, I was a point man. Basically, a point man is the point guy when you're doing an infill, you're the navigator, how you're going to get in, how you're going to lead My first mission as a SEAL was to go to Haiti in 2004. There was a lot of civil We staged out of Guantanamo Bay, and basically what we would on a helicopter every morning and do reconnaissance in and villages to report back We had prisoners breaking out of prison. It was just complete chaos all over Haiti. Bodies all over were on the beach. But it was just a reconnaissance mission. I felt good. Wasn't enough action for me. It made me really hungry for more. I wanted to go to the Middle East. The hairiest mission I've been on was when we went to Baghdad, and this was a SEAL Team Two. There was an election going on, and we had a badass lieutenant who started farming us who were having problems. We would find units that or being ambushed on roads. Terrorists would set up and they would just blow these vehicles, kill our guys, time and time again. We would go with these conventional units for a couple of weeks, training them up, and then we would actually take them on a real-world mission with us. And every time we went out, we would kill the guys within a 24-hour time frame. I wasn't actually a I was just really good at it. And so when we did all I was basically aiding the lead sniper and teaching the conventional It was one of the biggest There was a very small that was considered &quot;black.&quot; And so what black means is are allowed to drive through, You'd basically just stay because it's so dangerous. This one was out in basically farm fields. And so we took four teams, and four teams of two to three guys each, and we'd set them up along this road. So, town's here, black town. My OP was the first one right So it was the most And then we had our observation point kind of hidden back in the rear where And about halfway through We were in weeds that were And so I'd patted down and I was laying in the grass looking at the town, Probably about 30 meters off the road, and I saw a man walk right by me out of my peripheral. And I noticed when he I could see him looking through his peripheral. I thought, maybe I'm supposed He's going into a black town. I wanted to pull us out. I wanted to do an emergency extract because I had compromised the team. Rest of the sniper OPs They wanted to see how things went. Ten minutes later, we got mortared, probably four to five different I wanted to emergency extract again because I knew the next thing that was probably going to come was the fighting-age males in the village would have walked online through the field and just killed all of us. The next thing, that but it came with vehicles. We were so well hidden that goats were actually eating vegetation out of our ghillie suits, And so everybody was scared to move when that was happening because you didn't want And one goat goes crazy, then then the goat herder knows So we didn't move. A couple of goat herders had passed. What we noticed was five guys the black village, carrying AK-47s, carrying 105 rounds, carrying wire, shovels, everything you need to So they walked right past me, and we radioed to the rest of the team that these guys were coming their way, but nobody answered our radio. They started digging. They planted the bomb. All I heard was just shots over and over and over and over. It sounded like a gunfight. It sounded like the bad guys were, the terrorists were killing my guys because all of us were suppressed, meaning quieter shots, no muzzle flash. It seemed like forever, but it was probably less than a minute. And we kept calling our guys. &quot;Hey, what's going on? Hey, what happened? What happened out there? Is anybody out? You guys alive? Give me a head count.&quot; Nothing. In my head, I knew everybody was dead. And so it was me and two other guys, and we just got back to back, and we said, &quot;All right, this is it. We're just going to take as we can before they get us.&quot; First thing we hear come over the radio, maybe five, 10 minutes later, is, &quot;Holy s---, we just killed They let the Army guys take the shots. They were not suppressed. So I thought their gunshots but it was the Army guys, unsuppressed, shooting alongside with our You know, hearing my they had just killed those guys was one of the best-sounding voices I've ever heard in my life, knowing that my guys were still alive and that we had defeated the enemy. SEALs use a lot of weapons. We use .300 Win Mag sniper rifle. We use a .50 caliber sniper rifle. We use a 7.62 sniper rifle. We use a 5.56 sniper rifle. We have M60 machine guns. We have Mark 48 machine guns. We have Mark 46 machine guns. We have Mark 19 grenade launchers. We have M203 grenade launchers. We have .50 cal machine guns. We have mini guns. We have pretty much that fires a bullet. Main weapon I used was a M4 10-inch barrel with a Nightforce suppressor, and secondary was a P226. A suppressor is not a silencer. A lot of people think it's a silencer. It does dub the noise down a lot. You don't need to wear ear protection when you're shooting with a suppressor, but it's not like what where it sounds like a sewing machine. The main point of a suppressor that comes out of the end of the muzzle, whether it be a pistol or a rifle, because if you're shooting at night and you're in a combat scenario, every time you fire that it's going to leave a signature. The enemy combatants and then they'll aim at So if you have a suppressor then they can't tell so they don't have anything Most fun to fire was definitely the Carl Gustaf rocket launcher. I can't remember the exact but it is about this long, packed full of high explosives, and they will take just about anything out So one thing that we are terrorists hiding in caves. It's good to be familiar as you possibly can be. Two, we were in the the type of weapons that and so we trained on all the which are what the enemy combatant, the terrorists, were using at the time. You might be dressed up like a local or somebody from Afghanistan, Iraq, Yemen, Pakistan, wherever You might be dressed up and what does everybody have there? An AK-47. So you could be undercover, and that's the reason you You might run out of or some type of a raid where you have to pick up and be very familiar with that to continue on with the mission. When you see SEALs in the back of a old Toyota Hilux truck, a lot of times what that is, is those are, many times, up-armored, but they blend in with the So you can't get Hiluxes but everywhere else in the with diesel Toyota Hiluxes, A lot of times we're attached to some type of a partner force, whether that be a force or Iraqi commandos or wherever you're at. A lot of times in special operations you're going to be attached and those partner forces If you're in a 100-vehicle and there's only four vehicles that actually have SEALs in them and the rest of them is a partner force, you don't want to be the because if you do get ambushed, it's going to be a dead giveaway. You don't want to make yourself than anybody else on the battlefield. We did a course that was actually put on by the British MI6. We were actually going to go into Eastern Europe, Eastern Bloc countries in Europe, and hunt down warlords and people that have committed war crimes. They put us through a how to break into cars, how to blend in, how to how to surveil somebody in a vehicle, how to surveil somebody in a boat, how to follow them into 50-story buildings, and blend in in every type of environment that you can think of and be I would say the most that you need in combat is a radio, because radio gets you out of it's your communications, and it is actually the because you're calling You're calling in A-10s, you're calling in Apaches, you're calling in Spectre gunship, so I would say that the radio is by far the most critical piece I grew up in a small town in Missouri, about 6,000 people. I was a s--- disturber, troublemaker. I liked to party, I liked to raise hell, but it was a good childhood. I had a really good childhood. Very close with my family, I tried to go into the Marine Corps first, but they wouldn't let me in at the time. They told Then I went to the Army, told them I wanted to be a Green Beret. They kind of laughed me out of the office. I didn't even know what a and the Navy recruiter stuck his head out and basically said, &quot;Hey, have you ever thought And gave me a pamphlet. So I went home and went to the library, checked out every book on special operations and Navy SEALs, watched all the documentaries on National Geographic and Discovery, and decided that's what I was going to do. I wrestled in high school. I wanted to do the most grueling thing I could possibly do in the which was wrestling, so Did a lot of running. Really That was the biggest challenge And so I did a lot of laps in the pool. You can't prepare for it mentally. A lot of people never I wasn't a superstar athlete. I really wasn't much of an athlete at all. I didn't make good grades. I wasn't the most popular And so I think a lot of people thought that I would just go and fail. The only reason I didn't quit is because I didn't want to and that's because I felt as a child, and I wanted to prove to him that there was more than what he saw for the previous 18 years. BUD/S is the very, very to becoming a Navy SEAL. Basic Underwater Demolition/SEAL training. They want to know how tough you are. They want to know what you can take. They want to know that They want to know what your what your mental toughness is like. And I knew it was going to be tough. I didn't know it was First phase is very structured. Usually you'll wake up, you will have some sort of a PT event, meaning you're either going or a 2-nautical-mile swim, or you're going to do an O course, or you may go to the pool but you always start off with some type of a physical exercise. Then you'll be getting your by the instructors with sit-ups, flutter kicks, getting sand kicked on you. Nice little wake-up in the morning. And then that will filter into more beatings until lunch. At lunch, you probably You run back from lunch. It's about a mile and a You run everywhere. And then beatings commence after lunch well into the evening. Usually, you're done by You'll probably do some Those are the little boats those rubber boats with the guys with the paddles and the life jackets, and they have to land with the surf. Sometimes the surf can get and so it makes for a very Hell week is famously known as the most grueling It's five days, five nights, no sleep. Maybe you might get a but you are constantly moving. You are constantly in the water. You're freezing your ass off, fighting hypothermia. I believe the water there I was so miserable when I was in hell week that I almost quit. My buddy slapped me in &quot;There's no way you're leaving us here.&quot; What you don't see on TV and everything is, like I You're constantly sandy because 90% of the course and so the instructor staff, they know that sand of your body. And they take advantage of that. So they might have you do a 5-mile run after you go get wet and sandy, and that rubs all the off your armpits. Any skin that's rubbing Then when that dries, they meaning get back in the salt water, which is like dumping and it's just a constant vicious cycle of doing that over and Everybody that quits has to ring the bell. It's a very humiliating experience. You have to ring the bell in Most classes, at least were right around 200 to 250 people. And then place your helmet in So after hell week, you of 100-plus helmets all under that bell. The first time I heard that bell, I was thinking, I hope to I did not want to disappoint my father and call him letting and didn't have what it took. And once I got that in my head, it never crossed my mind again. They just want to see just about anything, but it's not near as grueling or having a limb blown off and they want to know that and still be with the When hell week's finished, it's one of the best They bring the American flag out. It's a big ceremony. You haven't slept in five days, and they basically just give for completing the toughest and then they offer you a pizza. Then there's phase two, and that is learning how to do scuba. That's learning closed-circuit breathing, apparatuses known as a Drager. The first thing you do is you go through dive so that you actually and how deep you can go for Then, once you pass that, then which would be what most people consider or call scuba diving. It's called pool comp. It's the last big, big obstacle that gets people kicked It starts with very, very minimal tasks. It might be just, hey, put and then it's, all right, You need to take them off, all the way up to, with all your dive equipment minus fins, and you'll just be crawling and then a group of They'll give you what which is basically beating the They'll punch your gut, tie your hoses up so you can't breathe out of your breathing apparatus. They'll tie that in knots. They will make your tanks Basically, what they do and take all of your air away, and what they want to see you're not going to jet Get your dive rig back and continue on that track. There's no secret to You have no air. You just got the s--- knocked out of you. You can't figure out what's wrong. You have water in your eyes. I mean, you can't really see. But, you know, it's not Open water is a whole new ballgame. Nine times out of 10, if we're diving, we're diving under a ship to plant a bomb, and then we're kicking back out. Sometimes these can be and so they want to see that and that you can handle yourself, and not only yourself, your buddy. You're not diving the coral You are diving San Diego seals, dolphins that So, in the early 2000s, the Navy developed the Mammal Program, and what they were doing were they were training dolphins and seals, the animal, They were training seals and and I believe it was explosive detection, and so they would train these animals, and then they would send them out, and the dolphins would to find enemy combatants that were trying to plant bombs on ships. So, as a BUD/S student, guess Fortunately, I did not but I did wind up in the The only way you know where you're going is you memorize your bearing. You look at your compass, and you count your kicks. So, my kick count was It was about a six-hour dive, I believe, and my kick count was a little I had the wrong bearing. Next to the pier that you're just so happens to be the Mammal Program. And so if you look at it is chain-link fence, so you'd think that goes all Well, it doesn't. It's more like a cargo And they kept saying, &quot;Dive Bear 23, you are entering the mammal cages.&quot; And I remember looking at my buddy like, f---ing idiots, they're going And they kept saying it. I was the lead navigator, and we were completely what appeared to be I looked up. I saw the cargo net. It was going over my wetsuit hood -- that's why I didn't feel it -- all the way behind us. So, when we came, when we looked up, we thought we were inside the mammal cages and kicked like hell to Turned out that the net was And we were Dive Bear 23. So. Everybody hits a low point. And so when you have a good guy, a good teammate that puts out, that cares about the rest of the team, when he hits that low point, the rest of the team to get his spirits back up, not to quit, and let him know that the rest of the team's depending on him. My favorite part was which is demolition, basically your land-warfare phase. They start to treat you like and the beatings become less and less. You're learning land navigation. You're learning pistols. You're learning how to shoot rifles. You're learning how to And the best part, the best part of all You're learning how to use C-4, TNT, Bangalore torpedoes, detasheet. You name the explosive, we use it. You're blowing up cars. Learning precision demolition. You're blowing things up in the water, like obstacles that they'll You'll dive down, plant and blow it right there in place. I love to blow s--- up. The first weapon I trained on was a SIG Sauer P226 9-millimeter handgun. I think they start with the handgun because the handgun is the to master in firearms. And once you have the fundamentals of handgun shooting down, then all the other kind of shooting, just with all the other platforms, just kind of falls into place. SEALs are such good shots because we train, train, train, train. It gets ingrained in you. And so even in BUD/S, you're going to spend a week And what I mean by dry firing Just your weapon. And so you come out just just like you're shooting but you get your form down. They just want all the motions, all the grips, everything, the way you hold it, the everything has to be perfect. And then by the time that in that weapon, it goes And then you'll do the You'll take your M4, dry firing for a week, maybe two weeks. Before a live round you'll know exactly what you're doing. I left the SEALs for a I didn't get enough action. I was very, very gung ho We did the Haiti thing. Then we went to Afghanistan. Did a little bit in but I didn't want to do another six years for a very small portion I saw what 20-plus years to their body, to their home life. Pretty much everybody I know was divorced or has been divorced or A lot of them didn't know Your platoon, your teammates, and the families are the secondary. And I knew that if I stayed that I was going to be come retirement. I wanted to try business. I became a real-estate agent and failed miserably at it and got into a fire academy. I found out that I wasn't and that it would likely before I did get a full-time I didn't have time. I 2 1/2 years to wait around. A friend of mine gave me a call and told me that he wanted me to try out for this contracting program. He said, &quot;This is a black program. I can't tell you who we're but I can assure you that everybody who's in this program to try out for this program has to have had a special-ops background.&quot; And about six months later, I got a call to show up what kind of gear I needed, and that I was going to be a tryout. And so I went. I did the tryout. It took about a month. When we finished the tryout, they had told us that the client that we were going to be working for was the Central Intelligence Agency. Pay was astronomically higher. It was probably four to five times higher than I was making as a SEAL. The deployment cycle as a I liked to do 60 days on, 60 days off. At the end, I was doing Some guys like to do 90, 120 days out, one week back. It's kind of all up to you and how much you want to give them and how much you want to give your family. When I left the agency, I started a tactical training company. It grew very fast. Got to train Keanu That was pretty much the height of it. Then I got really tired of it after doing the job for real for 14 years, give or take a little bit. I had grown a pretty from the tactics training And so I decided that I from the people who were there, the way it actually happened. So I started the Shawn Ryan I really got tired of talk about all the events or that my colleagues were a part of. It was always somebody And veterans didn't have a voice. And I wanted to bring that out and talk to guys like myself who had been through that So, everybody that I had found some type of success through entrepreneurship the low points, the to substance abuse, to broken families, to suicide attempts. You have been in a fight-or-flight state for as long as your career was, basically. More adrenaline dumps than anybody else you could possibly imagine. Multiple adrenaline dumps a day. That's a lot of chemicals It becomes an addiction, an My coping mechanisms were finding new ways to get an adrenaline release. Lots and lots of sleep meds. Everything from Ambien, Valium, Xanax, Lorazepam, anything I could get my hands on. Opiates, hydrocodone, tramadol. You name it, I'll take it. I moved out of the country to Colombia, South America. I lived in Medellin for quite a while, and I got really into cocaine and started going into I could find in Colombia to find where to buy cocaine from. And when that got boring, then I would go to another country, and I would start doing it there. At the worst point in my life, I was drinking two I would wake up and have in mini bottles that would be everywhere, all over my house, in my car, in my bedroom, everywhere. And then at night after dinner, I would just crack open a and start going to town on that. Wash down my pills to go to sleep, which, by the end of it they didn't even really put me to sleep. And then I would wake up with a nice pick-me-up of Adderall or some other type of And it just became this vicious cycle for years and years and years. When you are a SEAL, It's not something that They don't want to It makes the units look bad. And so a lot of them pretend Nobody wanted to go to medical because everybody wanted And so if you went to medical, everybody was scared that it might be some type of chronic illness or injury that would take So a lot of guys would hide it. I had a hernia that I and I refused to tell because I was scared that my SEAL contract out from under me. So I went all the way with a bulging hernia in my groin and finally told them when I was done. I've had multiple from being blown up, blowing cars up, shooting huge rocket falling out of helicopters. I don't even know how high we were because it was dark and I missed the rope and fell out of the helo. But it was 50 feet or less. A lot of wear and tear from humping the mountains of Afghanistan. A lot of wear and tear from BUD/S. Major back issues, those kind of things. I've never been shot. A lot of us have the same injuries and the same symptoms and deal with PTSD and deal with traumatic brain And when you get out, though, there are a lot of resources. Not very many government resources. The government doesn't do a very good job at treating these things. It's a dark time for a lot of guys, especially when they get out. We're not used to slow-paced environments. We're not used to not We're not used to integrating And we're not used to having to deal with feelings. You have a mission to do. That's the only reason you're there. And so when you get out and you have to -- you have to learn patience. And a lot of guys don't when they get out. But what there are is a who have started nonprofits, and the focus of the nonprofit whether that's group therapy or going to hyperbaric chambers to try to repair your brain health. I did two different psychedelics. The first one was ibogaine, which is about a 12-hour experience. It's like watching your entire life through a different perspective. And then you do what they call 5-MeO-DMT. It's basically an ego death. And it is a death experience. That was the most intuitive experience that I've ever had. And when I came out of and experienced the bliss, I could feel and see a flow of energy coming from the ocean onto the shore, into the grass, up the trees. And you, for the first time in my life, I have realized that and everything is one. It was really intense. I came back. I didn't need any of my meds anymore. I quit drinking. I'm sober for 2 1/2 years. I quit smoking cannabis. I quit a lot of things. And I was present with my family. It brings hope to all the guys that are getting out that hear this. They hear the low points that these guys, including myself, went through. And they realize it's not impossible. It gives them hope. I'm a producer on &quot;Authorized Account.&quot; If you enjoyed this, please subscribe and comment below with more topics you'd