DAVID HODGE: So what are we today is whether or We're going to be thinking about of thought on this. First one's Platonism, second one is fictionalism. So mathematical Platonism takes obviously, as the And the idea is that They really are things. They're objects. But they're abstract objects, same way that tables space and in time. Numbers exist outside They don't cause other They're totally abstract One of the reasons that people that we think that a lot of mathematics are true. Right, so certainly I think mathematicians say are true. I think that's a good But they say things like between 6 and 8. That seems like it's a true And Platonists think that that object that is the number 7, that you can touch. And they appeal to kind of way that we speak about kind of concrete world. So if I say to you that there's eyes, that nose had better exist true, right? If there's no nose here, then So in the same kind of way, between six and eight, that Platonists aren't happy to use a so they think that exists And so in the same way that a a number exists. All the numbers exist, It just so happens that in space and time. So it's a difference about or not they exist, or whether different kind of way. All sorts of fun problems The first of which that you come you start teaching this stuff, So numbers exist outside What does that even It's really, really hard to kind But we can be a bit more refined objecting to mathematical So one of the things that we claims are true, but that actually claims about these These abstract objects don't because they're abstract. OK, but we think that are massively reliable. So what they say, pretty much If their claims are actually then it looks like we need some mathematicians so reliably world of abstract objects. So if a mathematician tells you what he's saying is true. What they're saying is true. How is it that they're so this world of abstract Answering that question's Platonists, because they just with that world. Our second theory is So what the nominalist agree with the Platonist. That all of our mathematical mathematical claims should best about objects in the world. So tables, chairs, pencils, And to get a kind of bit of thing, often helps to think a child to count. So children don't tend to be abstract principles. One, two, three, four, What we tend to do is to say, Here's another. Now you've got two pencils. And it seems that what we do count with respect to a to objects in general. And what the nominalist says is, to number talk, right? What you mean when you say 6 had 6 lots of 7 objects, That's what mathematics It's about concrete things This kind of nominalist view when we start to think about numerical concepts. So if we start to think about for instance, and the imaginary So it's really easy to say 2 2 objects and those 2 objects, Much harder to see what object root of minus 1. So if you're a mathematical It's just another number, But if you're a nominalist, thing that it's about? Looks really, really hard to see So pi is also similarly So if you're a nominalist, it think that numerical about concrete things. But of course, pi doesn't seem least we certainly can't So there's a real question How are you going to understand collection of things, when terminating value? Our third group in the the mathematical fictionalist. So I said at the start that I that what mathematicians And the fictionalist doesn't So the fictionalist says, discourse is false. It's really useful, really systematically just false. That's quite an extreme view to science within which mathematics that's the view that fictionalist takes. So the fictionalist says numbers the Platonist says numbers are objects, and the nominalist says about concrete objects The fictionalist says it's It's just a useful story that ourselves get on in the world. BRADY HARAN: But surely the modern communications, is How do they explain Because obviously they How do they explain that they're they say doesn't exist? DAVID HODGE: So what the try and explain away the success success of science. But without saying that And one strategy that the here is to say that success in truth, or needn't be a We were talking about modern relying on all of this What the fictionalist will say the mathematics is successful. It doesn't indicate If it was true, says the mathematical objects, these mathematical Platonist thinks would have to exist. But they don't. And so in fact, our discourse can't be true. It can at best be a There are appeals that they can of help bring out the sort might want to do. Imagine that you thought that fiction, for instance. Some people do, some But you might think it codifies of moral principles. And you might think that there's and morality. But you might think as guiding pretty helpful. They help us get on Don't kill other people. Help societies develop, which interesting kinds of ways. The mathematical fictionalist about the language Helps us get on, but that it mean that it's true. BRADY HARAN: Where do you You've very neutrally given Is there one that resonates DAVID HODGE: So the view that guess, is mathematical So I don't think that there I don't think that there I think that it's too much of mathematics is false. My colleagues in the math delighted by this. So I adopt the middle ground, ground, anyway, which is nominalism. BRADY HARAN: You were telling into problems with some of irrational numbers. Do you run into problem DAVID HODGE: Yes, that means problems that the mathematical The kind of move that I like respect to pi is to say that with it, when we're using it what we're doing is we're using Now, that's a spectacularly spectacularly long I really shouldn't say it's think it maps to a But it's a spectacularly long But I don't think there's endless sequence, I guess. And of course, you can derive I think the reason that philosophy of mathematics, one precisely because there philosophize about. It's another thing for us interested in. The grand tradition of thinking goes right back to mathematical Platonism. And so people just get excited