Translator: Queenie Lee Good afternoon. We humans are in trouble. I've been a medical doctor for 17 years, and I've researched I've worked with thousands of people and I believe that we humans Now, why would I say such a thing? When I look at the lifestyle or even your lifestyles, we are in a state of bizarre paradox, a place of negative evolution. We have made sleep deprivation and rested a symbol of laziness. We have made being too busy And never before in human history have we had such conveniences yet never before have our lives So, yes, I do believe But at the same time, I have seen a group of humans individuals who have passion and purpose and meaning and joy in their lives. And I've wondered: what is the difference What does one group have So what do you think? Is it passion? Passion is a good one, but we all know passionate artists who are stuck in a rut, Could it be, if we add hard work, Well, grit is great but we all know, all of us know hard-working gritty people And when I became it must be how you grow up. But increasingly, I'm seeing with serious anxiety, So what is it? What is this one thing? It wasn't until I was in my most when I became a mother who are out there somewhere, that I went and found out. You see, when I became a parent, (Laughter) I became overwhelmed - overwhelmed with everything or was told I should do. And I couldn't understand a medical director of child and youth was having such a hard time when my mother who grew up in a village and never had a chance successfully raised five. And I turned out OK. So what was it? What is that one thing? I searched, and I knew there was something and more powerful than what I was doing. And I searched through the neuroscience, and the reality of success. And when I say &quot;success&quot;, I mean success health, passion, purpose, That's what I wanted And I found it. I found the one thing, that has been proven And my discovery was earth-shattering The one thing that has been shown adaptability. Adaptability. Adaptability. That was it! I was so glad it wasn't the piano. (Laughter) Adaptability, it made perfect sense. Survival of the fittest survival of the fittest is the one that is the best fit And wherever you look, if you look at bacteria, and small businesses and large businesses; in corporations, it is adaptability that made the difference Right now, humans because they are adapting So adaptability is it, The company Netflix we all know, that company used to mail and they adapted to online streaming. And another company - is Blockbuster. And Blockbuster, despite its advantages they refused to adapt, and they are fighting extinction Some of you may remember but that really was just a moment in time And this is true for humans. The longest study the Grant Study, which spanned 70 years, they looked at everything: they found and I quote: &quot;The key ingredient for well-being is the ability to make So think of your life. Think about times you were successful How did you adapt? How did you adapt to a new school or a new computer system How did you adapt to the changing nature or even our own aging? So it was adaptability. But then I had to figure out how. How do we adapt? Why do we adapt? So, my journey wasn't over. And thankfully, it was my research If you hang in here, through some very eye-opening So, when we humans do something because we can't think let alone adapt, we are rewarded; our brain's motivation centers are lit up with the powerful release And that is our reward; we experience a feeling And that is our signal do that activity again. And if we oversleep, or we under-sleep, and those are signals not to do that again and to go get our reward. Now, some of you may be saying, So is that what I need to do? Yes, we are rewarded to shop but we are over-gathering How much stuff do we need? And perfectionism That at the expense of other In fact, I believe that we humans that we have forgotten In my practice, I created a metaphor to help remind myself and my patients I used to hear - I'm sure that you're too busy to eat or sleep. And I felt we really need to look And I picked an animal that is a mammal the dolphin. You see, the dolphin has or seems to have They are highly and they do no tutoring. They, dolphins, have svelte, fit bodies, and they wear no spanx, and no fad diets. (Laughter) Dolphins have great social lives, And they show compassion, So how do these animals, in their very competitive environment where they have to hunt for food Well, they never compromise My kids told me a great fact. They told me that dolphins sleep by alternating their brain areas so they don't drown Now, dolphins don't compromise the basics So right now in this world, there are three things that has thrown us off-balance. And these can be remembered in the word that is the centerpiece That word is &quot;POD.&quot; So let me walk you through it. The &quot;P.&quot; The P stands for &quot;play.&quot; Dolphins play every day, but humans have forgotten And when I say &quot;play,&quot; not the &quot;play&quot; I was seeing happening Lego is a great example of that. Lego of my times, I was the fifth child, It was simple, and it was unstructured. There were no rules, and it was limitless That's &quot;play.&quot; The Lego of today It is constructed and complicated And we know the final product, and it is fragile. And we get rigid and stuck and anxious We are in trouble if we don't play. But if we do play, we are rewarded. Play - free play activates the very human part, and it stimulates all kinds emotional regulation Play makes us comfortable it makes us take risks Play is how we adapt. So what about the &quot;O&quot;? The O is &quot;others.&quot; And others is why we adapt. Dolphins are exquisitely connected to their families, their groups, But humans have forgotten that social connection When we are socially isolated, We get sick. Being lonely is as much Tumors in cancer patients And if you don't believe me, think of the worst form a torture that has been well-documented to lead to a complete breakdown That's solitary confinement. When we don't honor the basics, But when we do, we are rewarded. Social connection, contribution, not socializing superficially but meaningful social bonding And we are rewarded, If you've ever wanted to give up, your connection to something is why you changed, why you adapted. So when, when do we adapt? That's the &quot;D&quot;, that's the &quot;downtime.&quot; So, dolphins relax once in a while. And humans have forgotten that rest and relaxation In fact, we are so on the go that stress has become the number one We are stressed, and our bodies are releasing it's wreaking havoc When we don't honor the basics, we are in trouble, and we do things and yelling at your kids to calm down. Sorry kids, I know I have done that. (Laughter) When we honor our biology, and we give ourselves downtime, The research on mindfulness slowing down, It improves our focus, our relationships, our life satisfaction. Downtime. The most progressive are bringing in yoga classes, because they know that breaks that looking inward gives us So there it was - it was POD. And POD is how we adapt, And once this all settled in, I was struck by the simplicity I was struck by how kind And I was struck by how I had forgotten I had made being busy and I had been over-gathering And I had thrown my life And then I changed, and I adapted. It wasn't easy, but I brought POD And something magical happened. When I played, I found new passion. And when I connected, And when I rested, I found my balance. And amazing things started to occur, things I didn't think I began to write blogs and articles, And I wrote a book on POD and adaptation, and I called it: &quot;The Dolphin Way.&quot; So my mom, she can't read very well, But she asked me: why I was putting into a book that she saw She was actually worried And the book became and it's been translated and released around in the world. My mom hadn't realized that we humans that we do need science But we humans don't need to be in trouble. We can choose balance. In my office, I give prescriptions for medications, And now, I give every single one for a daily dose of a POD. I have been witness to the power Give yourselves that prescription. This is your prescription. Give it to yourself. Give it to your friends and neighbors. Bring balance back into your lives. Bring play, connection, Give it to your students and most of all, give it to your children. You see, we humans, we are perfect We humans are built and meant to thrive. And we humans, every single one of you Thank you. (Applause)