- Hi, I'm Rick Steves, celebrating Easter all across Europe. Easter is the most thoughtful and sacred of Christian holidays. It's a time of quiet reflection swinging from great sorrow to great joy. Across generations, and across cultures, Easter celebrates both resurrection and the promise of new life. (uplifting music) Across Europe, Easter is steeped and it also marks the end of Tracing the entire we'll start with the in Venice with masked balls, on the rampage, and in Switzerland, we'll what we call &quot;Mardi Gras.&quot; This is followed by Then, from Palm Sunday from Spain to Slovenia, to We'll trace the day-by-day when Jesus was arrested, We'll see the secular that world of kids, chocolate eggs, and local delicacies lots home cooking, and traditional dishes. Finally, we'll experience as various cultures the resurrection of Jesus, each in their own way. While Christmas celebrates Easter remembers the central crucifixion, and resurrection. For Christians, it's the to save humankind from sin, and bring the gift of salvation. For nearly 2,000 years, those events described in through great European art. The story, called the &quot;Passion,&quot; begins a week before Easter Sunday, as Jesus and His followers into Jerusalem. It's called &quot;Palm Sunday,&quot; because as he approached the city, a huge crowd welcomed and shouting joyfully, &quot;Hosanna! Hosanna in the highest.&quot; But the chief priests and Jewish elders felt threatened by Jesus, so they plotted to arrest Him. For 30 pieces of silver, Judas, agreed to betray him. Eating his last supper with his disciples, Jesus said, &quot;One of you will betray me.&quot; Anxiously, they asked, &quot;Lord, is it I?&quot; After the meal, Jesus to the Garden of Gethsemane. He asked his disciples to pray with him in his time of need, but they fell asleep. A troubled Jesus asked God He said, &quot;Father, if you are willing, take this cup from me. Yet not my will, but yours be done.&quot; As Jesus prayed, Judas arrived and, as was arranged, Jesus was arrested, and the apostles, afraid for their lives, fled. Jesus was bound, handed Pontius Pilate, and charged with treason. Pilate saw no reason to convict Jesus. But the crowd shouted, &quot;Crucify him!&quot; Pilate literally washed and turned Jesus over to the mob. The crowd spit on him and whipped him. They taunted him, mockingly and crowned him with thorns. Ridiculing him, the people said, &quot;Hail, King of the Jews.&quot; Jesus was then made to the hill of Golgotha, the place of execution in Jerusalem. He was stripped. His hands and feet were The initials above his head King of the Jews.&quot; Dying and in despair, Jesus cried out, &quot;My God, my God, why Then, breathing his last, he said, &quot;Father, into your hands, I commit my spirit.&quot; As evening approached, gently lowered his body Wrapping him in a shroud of linen, they placed his body in and protected the entrance On Sunday morning, Mary who came to anoint his and saw the stone was rolled away. An angel told them not to worry, and that Jesus had risen. Bewildered and frightened, the women fled. Suddenly, Jesus appeared and He instructed them to tell the When the apostles saw Jesus, they couldn't believe it was him. To prove it was actually him, He encouraged them to touch his wounds, and they broke bread together. After 40 days, Jesus blessed his followers and told them to go out the good news of his resurrection. Christians believe he before their very eyes. This remarkable story has for 2,000 years. While Christians have celebrated the festival itself actually and it's no coincidence that it happens at the start of spring. Like Christmas replaced the in the dead of winter, Easter likely replaced a pagan goddess of spring. It was a time of renewal, Imagine the bleakness of winter in ancient and medieval the short days and long nights, barren fields, the hunger, and the cold. Imagine the need for a promise and the joy when, finally, the fields spring to life Imagine also the comfort in had not abandoned you and your family. Rituals, whether Christian reminding them that the darkness of winter is always followed by life-giving spring. The Church wisely adapted to fit the story it wanted to tell. It rebranded this winter as a time of purification for Christians, and called it &quot;Lent.&quot; But before the deprivation of Lent, there was a rowdy festival and this hedonistic fling is Carnival. Carnival, which culminates in Mardi Gras, or &quot;Fat Tuesday&quot; in English, has a wild modern interpretation: big parades with marching bands, crazy costumes, and overindulgence of in the Swiss city of Luzern. But these modern traditions pagan roots. A memorable way to is in the countryside of Slovenia. Whether it's in the a common theme is a visitation Some are called &quot;Kurents,&quot; and others are called, These woolly monsters making a racket, rattling and clanging their chasing away evil spirits, and trying to frighten off winter. Homeowners eventually come to the door and, to quell the clamoring mob, they give the leader a sausage and a few cups of wine for the gang. The &quot;ugly ones&quot; swing their This ritual is a remnant when families were persuaded to share food during hard times. Another band of characters A group of ploughmen pull a colorful wagon decked out in flowers, and the coming of spring. The homeowner is asked for permission to &quot;plough for the big turnip.&quot; The ploughmen then drag behind men dressed as horses. This &quot;wakes up the soil&quot; of bountiful crops. Cracking whips announce the procession. (whips cracking) After the symbolic ploughing and sowing, the homeowner offers the and wishes them good The best-known Carnival is in Venice. Each winter, Carnival casts a spell on Venetians and visitors alike. Following a tradition that the city slips behind a mask of anonymity as Venetians promenade, pose, and pretend to be someone they're not. Authority is challenged. Rules are broken. The goal: to indulge in all the pleasures that will be forbidden in Lent. An elegant disguise is both but it's the mask, so symbolic that functions as a cloak of invisibility. The pleasurable appeal of anonymity is as powerful today as As dusk falls, the back streets Now as then, in Venice, In palazzos off the Grand Canal, elaborately staged parties take the aura of mystery a step further. Behind their masks, all people from bankers Tonight, no one knows who is who, and reality seems a distant dream. And, as it was centuries ago, what happens in Venice stays in Venice. (bells ringing) Finally, with the the party's over. Repentant revelers go to church for a Mass that marks a 40-day period of fasting and reflection as Christendom prepares for Easter. The priest marks each which symbolizes purification by fire. The 40 days of Lent represent in the wilderness. He was preparing for the culmination of his ministry on Earth and being tempted by the Devil. It's a time when Christians and on our own sins. During Lent, people give up It's a time to put aside distractions and focus on God's presence in our lives. Historically, Lent was the The last of the meat was There would be no eggs until spring. Through centuries when simply surviving the winter was a challenge, this was a time that As the world awakes from winter, the austerity of Lent This week, from Palm is the most sacred of the Christian year, and Europeans mark each Holy days build emotionally Ranging from Spain to we'll peek in on each of these days. (bells ringing) Holy Week begins with Palm Sunday, the day Jesus entered In Rome, the Vatican kicks off Holy Week with a beautifully The faithful fill St. Peter's Square, facing the greatest church in Christendom. Forests of palm fronds are a reminder of Jesus' triumphant entry. Cardinals and bishops add and the pope arrives with While the pope gets the TV coverage, Palm Sunday is celebrated across Europe in churches both grand and humble. In Tuscan villages, parishioners have olive branches blessed. Whether palm or olive, both are evergreen, and both symbolic of (band music) In Spain, Holy Week is It's celebrated with unrivaled most famously in Seville, or &quot;Sevilla&quot;. Here, Semana Santa is an epic event that stirs the soul and On Palm Sunday, families dressed up for this important day head into their parish church for Mass. Then, promenading with they make a loop through the neighborhood, eventually returning to their home church. Afterwards, they visit other each displaying elaborate floats. Sevilla has many religious that are entrusted with the that carry a statue of Christ and the Virgin Mary through the streets during Semana Santa. These floats have a dual They provide parents with a about the last days of Jesus' life, as well as how to deal like suffering and grief. Sevillanos hold a special place in their hearts for Mary. Floats with Mary evoke great emotions, and remind them of the grieving mother who has lost her only son. Every neighborhood church All are the grieving mothers but each one represents a And there are other floats. This one, nicknamed La Borriquita, or &quot;The Little Donkey,&quot; into Jerusalem. (band music) La Borriquita leaves its church and begins its procession This marks the official From now on, every day the city is enlivened with These ritual parades of Sevilla 400 years ago. They're designed to present the death and resurrection of Jesus in a way the average Today, some 60 fraternities carrying floats in processions like these from their parishes to the city's cathedral, and back. The journey, through miles can take up to 14 hours. Strong men called As a team, they bear two tons of weight on the backs of their necks, an experience they consider a great honor despite, and indeed because The caped and hooded figures of devoted penitents surround the floats. These are an icon of Unfortunately, for most Americans, these masked figures But these outfits pre-date And ironically, the original was to show that everyone and to ensure that sinners Unaware of the confusion their cones may cause many visitors on Palm Sunday, the youngest penitents Some are into it, and others not so much. But all take their place that's been practiced While Palm Sunday kicks Holy Week off with grand spectacle, Monday, are quieter. According to the Bible, Jesus disappoints those and things move step by In every culture, to prepare for Easter. While traditions vary, eggs are a recurring theme at Easter time. In Greece, Orthodox churches display exquisitely painted ostrich eggs. Symbolic of rebirth and resurrection, they hang prominently (woman speaks in a foreign language) Greece celebrates Easter In fact, all of Holy Week Children like Evelina for a little quality time, which, today, includes dyeing eggs. Here in Greece, the color is always red, to symbolize the blood of Christ. These will be great to share (both speak in a foreign language) Godparents also give a big chocolate egg and a special candle to their godchild to hold at the Resurrection As spring emerges, trees and fields green up. We're reminded of the It's easy to understand how have become tied to the In beautiful Slovenia, in the where many of Slovenia's old customs have been tucked among the hills and forests. The region's isolation has which, over the centuries, have morphed from those to those prescribed by the Church. In medieval times, to celebrate the arrival of decorated eggs were offered as gifts. Many families still dye their Easter eggs according to tradition: spring leaves and flowers from the garden are pressed onto an egg, wrapped in gauze, and then boiled in onion skins. After the gauze is removed, now beautifully decorated Today, Slovenian decorated eggs are a revered folk art and This woman is using a delicate technique of drawing on the shell with a She then dyes the egg with natural colors. Finally, eggs are rubbed in While techniques vary, decorated eggs with add heritage and local pride Slovenes today value this humble gift just as they did in medieval times. (women singing in Slovenian) As their grandmothers did, these village women enjoy working together as they embroider cloths that'll hold their eggs and (women singing in Slovenian) The giving of eggs can In Italy, chocolate eggs for loved ones. Here, in a backstreet of Rome, a fine chocolate shop embraces And Antonello is on a mission. With some help from behind the counter, he arranges to have a necklace planted inside a big chocolate egg. The plan: on Easter Sunday, his sweetheart will discover the gift as a re-affirmation of his love. (both speak in a foreign language) Back in Sevilla, we saw But there are still plenty and the week is in full swing. This shop's been selling and is full of locals getting Behind the busy shop, a woman stitches the cones by hand, just as she's done for 40 years. Nearby, another shop makes the woven belts and necklace cords that The shop is so small, the Bakeries are filled with holiday treats, like sweet cookies and spicy pestinos. Hungry patrons at this tapas bar enjoy meatless pre-Easter And the walls are completely covered with historic photos of Semana Santa, while a TV set shows coverage of the float procession At home, children get ready practicing the big moment when they get to join a procession. Juan and Irena patiently review the plan, and dress up as young penitents. As a reward, they help Mama another Semana Santa favorite, honey, and cinnamon. Families wait in long for a chance to kiss the foot of Jesus or the hand of Mary. This intimate moment is treasured by the people of Sevilla. It's only possible after from the altar, and before The most revered of these The Great Power. Here, Jesus, exhausted and beating at the hands of his captors, prepares to take up the cross, an acknowledgement of the Rituals like these make Jesus who are visibly moved by the encounter. All across town, churches and various Marys play a prominent role. This Mary is called She traditionally adorns the poignantly reminding people after the death of her son. The Mary of Solitude is beloved by those who wait for this convinced she will and hear their prayers. Easter is a time of family and feasting. In every culture, special foods weave together It's a time of music, as Holy Week builds to Easter Sunday. Deep in Italy's Marche to cradle more time-honored (upbeat music) A folk band of troubadours to help bless the coming harvest. They rouse the family with their music. (all speak in a foreign language) And then, as is the tradition, they're invited to enjoy a rustic meal: farm-made cheese, salami, and wine. The holiday spirit in Italy can be found in larger (all singing in Italian) Like anywhere, in Italy, Easter is a time when Preschoolers bring some Easter with skits and songs. The touching scene takes these seniors back and they respond with gifts. Back in the Tuscan countryside, locals bring baskets of to be blessed by their priest. These will be enjoyed by young and old alike on Easter Sunday. In Slovenia, Lake Bled of the Julian Alps. This spectacular and romantic location is famous as a summer resort, although in the springtime But the weather doesn't stop townsfolk from making the short to the lake's island. Next to the island's church is a bakery famous for called potica. This holiday treat, represents Jesus' Crown of Thorns, and is eaten for Easter brunch. Potica is a log of sweet of walnuts and honey, It's placed in a ceramic Bundt pan, and after baking it's flipped This busy baker will make a in anticipation of the coming feast. Back in Slovenia's Bela Krajina, a self-sufficient old farmer wears the region's which he wove himself. He packs up his Easter feast representing Christ's body, horseradish root for potica for the Crown of Thorns, and hard-boiled eggs dyed red It's all packed into a basket and covered with the embroidered cloth. For centuries, it's been a tradition for Slovenes to gather during Holy Week to have these baskets of symbolic Easter foods Some go by boat to the island church. Some gather at humble roadside chapels. And others bring their baskets to timeless village churches. On Thursday of Holy Week, the events of the Passion accelerate. Jesus, whose ministry knows his destiny: betrayal, Back in Italy's remote Marche region, in the stony village of Cantiano, Jesus' destiny is brought In the evening, the in a dramatic re-enactment retelling it as they have for centuries. Townspeople consider it in this epic Biblical story. On this night, Jesus for their Last Supper. Villagers and visitors as he tells his disciples, and they respond, &quot;Lord, is it I?&quot; With Good Friday only hours away, Cantiano's church is dressed in mourning. Crosses and artwork are representing the Passion. Holy Thursday is one of in the Catholic calendar, full of ancient ritual and mysticism. This day is also known as Maundy Thursday: &quot;Maundy&quot; means &quot;mandate,&quot; and refers to Jesus' new commandment. On this day, according to the Bible, he told his apostles, &quot;Love one another as I have loved you.&quot; Jesus demonstrated this when he washed the feet of his disciples. When a priest washes the he's reminding them of this mandate. Doing this humble job, customarily given to the lowliest servant, illustrates the depth of Jesus' love and the love he called (man speaks in a foreign language) This gesture is followed by the Eucharist. Also called Holy Communion, that last supper, and is a reminder of the great The bread and the wine are to remember the body and blood Christ gave so they could be forgiven For Christians, this is the Back in Spain, in Sevilla, various religious fraternities during Holy Week, so preparations continue all week long. This fraternity is putting before it hits the street. Men, women, and even young children are all members of For centuries, these and today, all are still such as helping the poor. Excitement fills the air, as flowers are prepped and arranged. Candles are set out for the penitents, and petals are plucked when she takes her turn This is tender work, to make sure that the floats Floats with Mary are during Semana Santa, as she is beloved for and her empathy with the people. This Mary is known as &quot;Estrella,&quot; and inside her namesake star, she carries a relic of the cross. She'll have her moment later this evening. Out on the crowded streets, floats slowly make their (man singing) Centuries of Flamenco singers with love songs as they Traditionally spontaneous, these passionate songs occur when a singer is so overcome with emotion, he must break into song. (crowd applause) As dusk settles on Sevilla, a long line of silent, escort one of the city's toward the cathedral. The float portrays the dead Jesus, taken down from the cross and mourned by the people Among the most dramatic the float is decorated and a single red rose, As night closes in, like fireflies dancing in the dark. The entire Holy Week in Spain After a full day, it's and then the Mary known ethereal and radiant. A shower of petals rains down upon her as if heaven itself is thanking her for her immense and loving sacrifice. On Good Friday, the day in churches and communities the rituals of Easter intensify with more processions, (objects clattering) Back in Italy, in Cantiano, the pre-dawn streets stir Their purpose: to awaken the town. According to tradition, no church bells ring on this sad day. That's why it's these crude noisemakers that announce the Good Friday message: Jesus is dead, and it's In the dark and gloomy main church, the community many people just moments out of bed gathers, dressed The mood is somber as The ritual Procession of The priest leads his congregation to the next church for more prayers. From there, with the priest continually the procession continues. (priest speaks in a foreign language) Eventually, the entire where hundreds of candles and burial niches. The living remember in this time of communal mourning. In many Christian traditions, during Good Friday the bells are still and the services are stark, without music. People leave in silence. It's a time of mourning. (monks chanting) In monasteries, like monks chant to sanctify the day. The music and rituals of as the focus is on Jesus' Nearby, in the hill town of Gubbio, hooded penitents, like those in Sevilla, take the sadness of the As they leave the church they sing the Miserere, a lament expressing the The holy statues are carried high, as if floating above legions of mourners. Penitents carry plaques showing icons and tools of the Passion. And common citizens, are part of the procession centuries old, continues to be passed on from generation to generation. Processions like these, seem to flood every And throughout Europe, Passion In Slovenia, the medieval is famed for its Easter play. This version was written and has been performed ever since. With a cast of a thousand the play is staged in various with the action coming from all sides and captivating the audience. It's a departure from the a morality play that feels One message suggests that we're all equal, whether king or cobbler. Then, when a tormented we ask ourself, &quot;How will I (man shouting) But the most dramatic moments come when things return to the and all eyes are on a Passion Plays make the As told so vividly in the Bible, Jesus suffered greatly to the Cross, stripped, Here he hangs bloody and nearly Back in Italy, at Cantiano's Passion Play, the main square becomes a stage. Under a full moon, in the crisp air, the entire village packs the square to witness this timeless re-enactment. Villagers take their roles seriously and perform the Passion with passion. For the faithful here, it's a sign of devotion and respect. Some of these people play The entire town becomes a set as Jesus is led to his crucifixion. For the finale of Cantiano's Passion Play, the entire cast trudges With Jesus in the lead, it's an unforgettable Then, far below, the village gathers for the dramatic last scene: represented by a shroud blowing In Greece, in the city of is in the air and crowds of people are out enjoying the weather and preparing for the big Easter holiday. Here, Easter is celebrated For Greek Orthodox Christians, it's the most celebrated Because Eastern Orthodox Christians use a different calendar Orthodox Easter usually The Greek Orthodox ritual to many Western eyes and ears. But the storyline is the same, with a few mesmerizing twists. While worshipping, Orthodox Christians believe and incense helps involve all the senses. The priest typically has a experience, and respect. He periodically retreats called an &quot;iconostasis.&quot; Then, to involve all gathered, he circulates among the faithful. (man singing in Greek) In the Greek Orthodox tradition, the events of Good Friday For hours people gather, As candles flicker, all generations awaiting each step of the The cantors blend music and prayer to heighten the atmosphere of reverence. (men singing in Greek) Eventually, the priest out from behind the iconostasis. (priest singing in Greek) After being carried around the church, Jesus is lovingly decked in flowers. The passionate congregation to kiss the feet of Jesus. The ritual of mourning Around midnight, as Good Friday arrives, women decorate what's or symbolic tomb of Jesus, Well into the wee hours, it's a family affair as flowers create a fragile to their loss and love. (all singing in Greek) (man singing in Greek) After dawn, a Good Friday service is held. Christ is removed from the cross. His body is then carried Eventually, the priest re-emerges, carrying a shroud representing He reverently leads it through Eventually, the shroud is laid out flat in the ceremonial coffin, and blessed with flower petals. As in any funeral, loved Here, either with a kiss, a trip beneath the epitaph. Once again, the Orthodox mysticism, enhanced by music, incense, and intensely felt prayer, (bell tolling) On Good Friday evening, the as the epitaph is carried Even as a visitor, I felt sharing a familiar Churches from three the same ritual funeral procession as they carry their individual The three parades converge and the epitaphs gather on a stage with the bishop overlooking what seems like the entire The bishop, flanked by the town's priests, gives an Easter message, why Jesus died, and why (Bishop speaking Greek) Holy Saturday is the day while his followers mourned. In Western Christian traditions, it's a time of thoughtfulness But in the Orthodox Christian Holy Saturday is a celebration of what Jesus' soul On Saturday morning, the Greeks pack their church while his disciples Jesus descended into Hades, bringing salvation to That's why Greeks call this Saturday the &quot;First Resurrection.&quot; Worshippers venerate an icon of Jesus pulling Adam and Eve out This is the pivotal moment when Christ has defeated The priest has changed out of and into hopeful white ones. Much happier and more animated now, he tosses dried flower petals representing the broken chains of Late Saturday night, the people spill from their churches and fill this time, with a palpable It's almost midnight, and Easter Sunday is just Here in Greece, people can hardly wait to celebrate the Resurrection. On this day, Christians everywhere fill the churches and the squares, and they declare with great joy, &quot;Christ is risen. He is risen indeed.&quot; (fireworks exploding) When midnight strikes, and finally Easter Sunday is here. The Holy Flame, which literally travels and then to towns throughout along with the ritual And it's not over yet. Everyone then heads home for the biggest party of the season. People carry the Easter flame Raising it above their heads, they make a cross above the doorway, symbolizing that the has blessed their home for another year. A long table awaits as the They have a competition to will be the strongest. Sighs of disappointment from losers are mixed with the laughter of winners, until the proud victor, who'll enjoy a particularly is declared. Traditional holiday dishes, like a thick lamb entrail It's a joyous family gathering. The feast continues into the with lots of meat and eggs, and no shortage of Easter bread. (bells tolling) It's a new day, filled with promise both Flowers trumpet the full bloom of spring, and the earth reawakens Back in Spain, the sun rises It's peaceful after so many parades and ritual-filled days of Semana Santa. Now, families simply enjoy time together. In contrast, back in Italy, in Florence, the pageantry has yet to peak. Easter Sunday starts with a grand parade. A lumbering, decorated wagon is dragged by white oxen through town as it has been since medieval times. The procession ends at the where a crowd has gathered, At the end of the Mass, a mechanical dove, representing the Holy Spirit, rockets from the high altar igniting fireworks. It's a spectacular way to And back at the Vatican, St. Peter's Square is once again filled as this 2,000-year-old tradition is celebrated with another huge Mass, bringing together an international crowd and a global audience. In addition to St. Peter's, worshipers fill venerable which are busy with Easter As is the case everywhere in Christendom, communities come together with splendid, yet dignified fanfare, all to celebrate the Resurrection and the promise of salvation. And then, as if famished by all the processing and church-going, across the lands families It seems the gift of Easter brings out a deep-seated urge to gather loved ones together and embrace life in its fullest. Throughout Italy, Easter for family and friends to Sacred traditions rich with in tiny villages. Grandmothers make holiday With a gentle touch, the dough is kneaded and then shaped into rings. The ring shape represents Meanwhile, grandfather tends the oven with wood from his olive trees. When the coals are just right, the ciambelle arrive, as if on cue. And drawing from the practice they're cooked to perfection. In his cellar, he cuts hung there to dry especially As all generations Grandfather slices his prized salami. He blesses the occasion with a toast. (man speaking Italian) Eggs and a variety of (all laughing) The ciambelle are served with again recalling the On Easter Sunday, it seems everyone has a place to be, and I'm fortunate to join friends in this Tuscan farmhouse. To be so far from my own home and loved ones yet feel so is a memory I'll treasure And after the meal, the kids, so obedient at the table, are now free to storm their chocolate eggs for the gift traditionally hidden inside. (all cheering) Joining the parents and we all recall similar Easter (all speak in a foreign language) And in Rome, older celebrants embrace the holiday egg theme as well. Enjoying a personal moment as an extravagant Easter banquet awaits, Antonello gives Manuela She discovers her gift, a celebration of their love In Slovenia, family and The Easter table is laden with food thoroughly blessed the day before. There's a timeless joy as parents laugh together, children do the serious and a grandmother cradles trying to make sense of her first Easter. And after a long winter and Lent, it seems like there's more to last through spring. Children across cultures, probably yet to appreciate and rebirth symbolism, certainly know the excitement Back in Greece, this in the town park. It's a mad scramble to find as quickly as possible. And as is so often the case, the tearful little one who missed out gets a little extra love. In villages all across Greece, families are grilling lamb, eating, singing, and dancing. It seems there's a spring lamb The roast takes hours, It's an all-day affair. People move between households, checking on each other's When the spit stops, the feast begins. Lamb off the bone, lamb off the fingers, beer, wine, music, more food, more fun, more lamb. People party all day long. Eventually, the village dancing and singing. Together, they celebrate for all their lives, celebrating the hope of renewal at yet another joyous Easter Sunday. I've always enjoyed how brings more meaning to my I hope this holiday journey to your Easter as it has mine. I'm Rick Steves. Thanks for joining us, and Happy Easter. (uplifting music)