In Genesis 22:5, it says: Worship is the only thing you can give to Everything that you give to God, God first gave not give you, that you can give to Him. That's why But the definition of worship, the first mention There was no band. There was no worship team. and God told his father, Abraham, to lay the tells the servants and he says, &quot;We will go about a song. It's more than a style of service. your knees. First and foremost, biblically Worship is less about the team, it's more about you to see this. He says, &quot;We will come back.&quot; You he's gonna die, but because it's an act of come back. Anything you lose in worship, you will The second portion of Scripture that chapter 1. If you have your Bible, let's go And Job had a very interesting life. He was long, long time ago. Job, they say that Job's even though it's somewhere So, a little background. Job just heard the his possessions are stolen, and chapter 2, But in verse 20, he is grieving. He's starting where you shave off your hair and you tear your to grieve, and he's grieving. But I want &quot;And he fell to the ground and worshiped.&quot; the way he dealt with the unexplainable, and then &quot;Why did this happen to me?&quot; His friends had a righteous enough, you've done something wrong.&quot; in your life where things were really bad. Maybe dear to you. Maybe you lost your family or you maybe this year you lost your health, and right of that. And sometimes people in grieving a Sometimes people grieving a loss, they go into into other things that are proved to be not the best disinfectant for dealing with a broken It's okay to have questions. But make sure your &quot;whys&quot; don't get ahead of your he had a lot of questions for God. But they all It's interesting, when God visited Job, He asked him more questions. If you think you got But at the end of all of this, the Bible says God restored everything that the devil has stolen. are not worthy. God is worthy of your worship, God is worthy of your worship, when you is around the table, and even if you can't Now, you can choose not to worship. That is and you will get through your valley of the get through your fire without being burned. drowned. You will go through hell without getting Job fell down and worship. When you don't have When you don't know what to do next, and you already cast out the demon, you broke already been through every prayer line and you've not working, and I gotta remind you. This is not a But when worship is your way with you'll never be lost, you'll never be You will never be lost. You will be right and God might not give you an explanation, Because when I see Jesus face to face, my first My first thing is going to be because the presence of Jesus is more I'm not downplaying the pain and the seriousness as gain, I count as loss for the sake of Let's look at another person who also worshiped. Pause for just a second. This woman For those of you who have children and when you can't fix it. It's the most traumatizing, Had a phone call yesterday with one of is dealing not with demons but with drugs. The dealing with something, they will be willing to to save their child's life. I watched yesterday encourage you all to watch it. Moved me to heart and hijacked the whole, Jon, Denzel emergency room. So that he could get his son to him a heart, he volunteered to kill himself so And that's the kind of extremities parents will of the universe is the only one who understands and He tells you, &quot;Not for you. I don't have you. It's one thing when insurance, somebody This will be a moment to get mad at God, to get start a YouTube channel about deconstruction. leave, take no for an answer. But the Bible says, home the same. She understands her only hope In verse 25. &quot;Then she came and It's hard to step over somebody's worship, over. Because here is a mother, she was crying to the severity of her problem. But something instead of leaving in anger, instead of leaving she got on her knees and she worshiped Jesus, And then Jesus gave her those crumbs, but crumbs family, maybe you have researched, maybe you have feel like you got denied and there is no hope for you. There's one more thing you can do, for God Begin to go every day into your secret room &quot;But I don't feel like doing it.&quot; This is not Begin to worship Him, and tell Him after how the answers, how the prayers that are birthed Versus prayers of threat, prayers of Those prayers. God is not He lives outside of time and He's and the video that you did against Him. He's you so much, and He's the King, and it's to your if you bend in worship. All of us are like palm bend in worship, one day we will be forced to force me.&quot; Well you don't know what's waiting when One day you will be forced. I don't want to The devil, the losses, the trials and God has as much right for my worship as I have it belongs to God. It doesn't belong to you and don't offer it freely, one day you will do it don't want to serve that kind of God.&quot; My friend, and is the only one that is willing to give you something shifts in your heart and in your life begin to flow. Let's read one more verse, and This did not happen when Jesus was born. This most and the reason being is the wise men came to the to 900 miles to get to Jesus. Some scholars years to get to this place. Jesus was already a We see that they come to worship. Unlike or some loss. Unlike the Gentile woman, Their life was very good. Their life, they most They were wise. They were smart. They were very a revelation, not for some blessing. Nothing and they encounter a problem because the star came to Jerusalem, these scribes knew everything They gave proper directions to the wise men, Bible says that as they presented their plan &quot;I will worship as well.&quot; Anytime you have genuine Herod is the example of counterfeit worship, worship? Sometimes it's very simple. How Herod killed babies. Herod was actually He killed two of his sons. A high priest of that day went for a swim with drowned him. Howard was not a good person. But he was a great builder. He was called Herod He did a remodel on the Jerusalem temple and gave fortresses. It's still there. Masada. Incredible, great builder but at the same time he pretended a really terrible character. Genuine worship Sometimes worship can change your circumstances it changes your attitude. Because the very and you can't bow if you're sitting on your and you gotta get to the King Jesus, and begin to I'm going to still sit on my throne.&quot; As long as me and everything. You can pretend to worship but And you can be great on the outside, the can applaud whatever that your alternative that on the inside, you're not as On the inside, you're not as great as you are on fix who you pretend to be. He can only fix who on the throne of your own heart and says, &quot;I do stuff for me. I want Jesus I can use, not And Herod, he should have went down to that baby protecting your kingdom. Jesus was no threat evil reign. Jesus didn't plan to overturn Jesus doesn't want your money. He doesn't PlayStation. He wants your heart. If you your cigarettes. Don't worry, He'll let you He doesn't want your cigarettes, He wants your the things that hurt you, Jesus will lead Herod was afraid to go and worship, well he I'm going to speak to those of us who are We need to repent. Those people who maybe children on Tuesday. Those who worship on Sunday and they destroy people's reputation, your boss or other people. That is not genuine That means that no lying is allowed in our life, The reason why is because it's easier to sing You know the worst part about Herod, he started killing babies. Wise men didn't tell He massacred the whole children in that town. approximately, and there was only about 20 So there was not a lot of children, and half of So it was not a lot of children but if It doesn't make the crime that he did less tragic, Because that's what people do They go into this monster mode. And a lot sometimes if you know I don't get my I'll prove it to you you know.&quot; We go into with God. We pretend to worship and then when into the other route like Herod. We're like, well He's not real. Or I'm going to try to twist My friend, that's not genuine worship. Genuine Spirit and as you submit, God begins to work on He doesn't make you better than other people, He changes your character. Your will will to God and now your will is flexible with with your studies and with other areas. more compassionate, you become more broken. but broken in the sense that God can I want you to see what these wise men did. &quot;They bowed before Jesus.&quot; A place, they came to The posture is physically bowing. The Bible talks very important that there's a posture of worship. says we can shout in worship. The Scripture we can also dance before God In worship. The when you saw today people during worship this is one of the expressions of worship. door and just took a selfie with baby Jesus, This wasn't about selfie. This wasn't about a a tweet. This was a posture. I came to a right church, church I want to challenge you to also get there, that you begin to sing, that you begin to louder, that you begin to dance. Yes, it's okay in the presence of God. It's okay to raise your God. It's okay to open your mouth and to sing. why? Because these sacrifices are pleasing to God. worship your way out of your trial, worship of you who don't have trouble, to worship God amen. But as they worshipped, the Bible says is that happened, is they opened their treasures to Sunday, you can do that both in your private. out about myself, I don't know about you guys. And God becomes a maid instead of a Him to construct and change me. But God is not He also wants to reconstruct, He wants to change trust Him with my pain, instead of trusting Him into the areas of my life where I'm hurting but And a lot of us, we would rather invite God into bring change into our purpose. Because see, the into the suffering corridors of your heart, but your character cannot change. Don't just stay and linger there until God gives you His own Give Him your treasures, give Him your treasures. money. It's not about things but it could include place. When you open your treasures to God, God they brought their treasures to Jesus, during See you don't know what Herod is planning, God conversations you don't hear behind your back. God you have no idea about. And so that's why I rather to treasures I don't know about. And then as I me. It can come in a form of protection. It can form of supernatural favor. It can come in a form form of a text message, an email, a phone call. of opening windows of blessing to the people He who comes to God must believe that God is and Him. I want to tell you something, if you seek He shall add all things to you. God Is not an ol' God. He is my shepherd and I shall not lack. steps of the righteous, He finds pleasure in the and I bankrupt my heart and I say, &quot;Lord, here is my drama. Lord, here is my character flaws. here are things I'm battling with. God, here are with, Lord, help me.&quot; And I stay long enough to plans. God here are my good things that I wanna At first this seems like I lost my treasure, I didn't lose anything that end up in the God repackages it and He uses it for His glory. and people look at you and You seem to always know.&quot; That's true. I'm is a satellite that guides my life and and God will guide your steps this coming year. He will guide your steps this coming year. He going to happen, in the dream, in the vision, by taking peace away He will steer your life in be guided. You will avoid wrong people, wrong Can worship be your default place for dealing way out of place where you feel that there is no Would you yonder in worship? Would you be Don't whine. Now it's okay to start whining when But he only started first few verses and then it are eternal, and then you're like what happened? God. We whine and then we worship. Whatever