Okay folks, the wait is finally over. Welcome to time to talk about the super hyped, hugely 9 TV. Better buckle [Music] up. Welcome back, by thanking you for your patience. I mean, in the comment section of just about every video anything but patient. But you've waited, you're Now, for those of you who don't count the buildup to the Sony Bravia 9 TV, also known with a rather exclusive trip to Sony's Tokyo Sony peeled back the super secretive curtain backlight technology. The anticipation was a special press event that Sony held at the where journalists who had previously only see it in action. The acclaim for this So, super exciting TV. You'd think but as I explained in other videos, between a short 9-day vacation that I took, and the this review was always going to be a little later wanted to test before I got to the Bravia 9, the I feel like the stakes are pretty even right now, I really want to get this so thanks again for your patience. Now, So, for anyone unaware, what makes the for the full story on that, check into Sony's new backlight tech. But Sony developed a new little IC chip that allows backlights. That control promises to deliver brightness while also delivering the kind of one could previously only get from an OLED has managed to arise in discussion forums has Well, I'll tell you right now that I have always I'll take it a step further and tell you right consumer LCD-based TV ever will be an OLED like I just said, asking if the Bravia 9 I'm going to do something I don't normally do, right now. The Bravia design is an astonishing, TV. It's a marvel of engineering. It raises the be the right choice for everyone. I'll make the Now, I know a lot of you want me to just get to we have to talk about everything this TV offers the AA 9 is remarkably expensive, and that's like barking into LG G4 premium quality is reason enough for some folks to going to want to know that if they lay down to feel like one of the best investments they've Best as I can tell, Sony skimped on nothing with your keyboards about HDMI 2.1 inputs, I'll address your shorts for a second. Everything really about delightful about TVs a whole lot, but I kind it starts with the fact that this TV is minimizing the risk of damage to the panel. Sony stance on smaller cabinets or a wider one for the TV can be positioned at two heights: the other slightly higher to accommodate not plastic. The TV's cabinet is light yet virtually no bezels along the top and sides Now, the remote is not metal this year, it's made of Sony's Sorplas material, which division. It's light and strong, so it's USB rechargeable, yay, and has a remote The Bravia 9, like all Sony TVs, runs custom UI laid over it, and I've grown you have all the essential settings in a ribbon and more granular settings available if you that Sony limits the number of clicks that you and that extends to Sony's choice to have turn it on. So, instead of always going to the do when you turn it on, if it was on HDMI 1, the TV will be tuned to HDMI 1 automatically when on your cable TV. You're never forced to navigate switch from your typical routine, and I think But the most premium non-picture quality-related system. Guys, I don't think viewers are talking this TV is tremendously good. It is, by a I've ever reviewed, and that includes Sony's own screen. What this TV has going on that others The bass doesn't just get deep and provide but it adds weight and makes the overall sound an onboard TV audio system, but what really which makes dialogue clear and intelligible that is when you connect a compatible Sony with Voice Zoom on the Bravia Theater Quad this TV has the goods to make dialogue very to tweak it a little bit on the TV itself, Anyway, I've always felt that a premium TV, have super impressive sound, and this TV has got that built this TV's sound system. You all deserve you're going to spend big money on this TV. but I feel like Sony has done a sufficient of picture quality. But, as we all know, and I've already told you it's tremendously it's so good, along with whether it may or may it's time for numbers for nit nerds. This technical data that I gathered on this TV. I'll summarize what you need to know in a moment, links we've put down in the description. For the most part, I did my evaluation with both for SDR and HDR. This would be the equivalent also test the cinema and standard picture presets capabilities. For SDR content in professional brightness, which is the most PR mode thing that up to 100 nits. You can, of course, make the TV cinema mode bumped up peak SDR brightness most people, even in bright rooms. In fact, many take their calibrations past 300 nits for SDR. brighter though, brighter than you will need Now, the two-point white balance didn't come to target D65 with its in-house calibration, But I didn't expect the blue channel, and only the this chart makes it look far lower than it so barely perceivable to the naked eye and not at all an issue, just kind of a surprise to the grayscale, it tracks with what the two-point low end and just barely off at the high end, your intended target. Now, the gamma measurement Color gamut readings are excellent. Everything though technically the LG G4 OLED I tested with the naked eye. The Bravia 9 also aces the only the whites daring edge over here as well. Color saturation: again except oddly enough low luminance blue Moving on to HDR, which I know is where the was excellent, just about dead on the entire again a little lean in the blue, which I'd want though. If you choose the cinema so it boosts HDR brightness across the going to be preferred by most viewers. I think Peak luminance with a 10% white window was coming in just under 1000 nits. That's important this TV's APL can be. Now, when I ran the HDR highlights came in at 1800 nits. However, you provide HDR highlights above the 2000-nit scene it was working on. HDR color accuracy was and predictably, the TV does great with Rec. 2020 it peters out. That's just LCD technology for you. but keep in mind there's precious little what's more important is total DCI-P3 So, if you're just rejoining us because by the measurements, the Bravia 9 comes in as year. The LG G4 and LG C4 are its toughest but the Bravia 9 holds its own very Now, I want to do a quick breakdown of some But first, let me just tell you what the Bravia 9 but why is that? What is this TV? Well, in short, in my judgment, and that's because it manages to mini LED-backlit LCD TV can do and what an OLED for an OLED TV. However, in very challenging dark see where it comes up short of OLED. But in most clear that it is a better bright room TV than Let me be crystal clear in the briefest way dark room, an OLED is still the better choice. possible, and you want it to look amazing no the Bravia 9 does that better than Now, the Bravia 9's brightness capabilities are market. Now, that statement may not make sense brighter, but real brightness capabilities must and that performance is determined by the the brightness where and when you need it. The like TCL's Q8, which measures in the 4,000 to deliver high brightness in more real-world I do want to be super clear here, though. The be apparent. It's highly content dependent. Like to both the Bravia 9 up top and the A95L QD professional mode; all the other settings are flames in this scene to be notably brighter on they aren't. In fact, they are very closely than other mini LED TVs that could be here in that other mini LED TVs cannot pull off. That's particularly those mastered at 4,000 nits, than the A95L OLED can pull off, and in very high something like that, it will not only be brighter So, that's the story with this TV's brightness. to be, and it gets out of the way at the right high brightness is only impressive if If you don't have deep blacks and that high brightness makes a picture look washed the Bravia 9 so special. It makes the right you get the right blend of deep blacks, high bright and punchy high-brightness scenes. And due you also get blooming and halo that Now, that does mean that there are some can see the backlight doing something that you this evaluation. I referenced it actually this out. This is the end credits of Obi-Wan we've got a starry space scene here, and the bright credit comes up, you'll notice all of the stars get brighter too, the brightness of the stars goes back down. It Now, you may wonder, as I did, why Sony behind the credit. I mean, isn't that the point there are two choices here, right? One is that you which would leave the rest of the scene at the if you did that, you'd have a lot of blooming, and not very OLED-like. Or you can choose to raise and yeah, the stars brighten up and then dim there are only two choices here, and that's true a dual-cell LCD TV that has basically pixel-level and I think Sony made the right one. If you and then a huge bright object comes up, you'll background might get a little bit brighter. and the benefit of this approach is that when And the really great news is that something small like closed captions, they don't trigger that closed captions on a jet-black letterbox bar Now, as I mentioned in the nit nerd section, beat it mostly because it can have higher color image, but for most of what you'll watch, the and pop. For motion, well, it's an LCD TV, so time of an OLED, but I actually see that as the pixel response time is so instantaneous create a strobing or stutter effect. You won't judder as well as, if not better than, with this TV. I didn't watch a ton of sports, looked great to me without the aid of motion Now, as for gaming, I think what makes this all the gaming feature support that most best picture quality that you can get from burn-in or running into auto brightness so it isn't perhaps going to unlock that one but it does support VRR, ALLM, and source-based the Xbox and PS5 consoles. Again, pixel you may get a little more color smearing than you no burn-in risk, no dimming, it's hard to imagine So, guys, the Bravia 9 is not trying to of both worlds when that is nearly compromises are inevitable. It's always going to and I think Sony has made all the right decisions but that's where I stand on the matter. Guys, a remarkable TV, and it's got a remarkable to do that when you're making something that price is the Bravia 9's only real weakness, and in the way of more folks owning such an amazing I'm glad about that. I wondered if it could stand Thanks so much for watching, everyone. What's action in person? Let me know your thoughts do us a favor and smash that like button. see you on the next one, and until then, here you know what you're going to timeout the