Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today I have a fun tutorial for all of you. I want to show you how you can create your so you can get a .com .net, .org. Whatever top Kevin Cookie Company, we surprisingly don't this tutorial to build a website for us, and It's extremely easy to do. You don't have It's super simple, and it's only cost of the domain. The hosting, the All right let's jump on the This tutorial is broken up First, I want to show you how you can we'll build a website for the domain If you don't want to buy a domain You can also just skip to the second portion To buy a domain name, there's in the center of the page where Today I want to buy the It'll probably take you more time to brainstorm Now let's see if this domain name Phew, it looks like my domain name is available. is available. Down below, I can see a bunch of like .net, .org, .info, but I really think .com is probably the best one to get. Once I'm I can now see that I have one up to my cart and I'll go ahead and check out. Here on the checkout page, I can see I want that turned on by default. That basically means when they won't be able to see your name or your There's also the setting to turn on auto-renew. I want to make sure I don't let my auto-renew turned on. Down below, Google also This was also previously known as G-Suite. If you want to be able to send you have to get Google I don't need to do that for now, and I'll simply purchase the domain. Let's click on check out. Right here on the there's a call out here for create a website. Let's click on build website. When I click on build website, I can build a new website, and in a moment, we'll Over on the right-hand side, I can This is something that I recently did with the if I type in KevinStratvert.com and hit enter, Today we want to build a new website, so let's Next, this drops me on another site where I and there are a few different options. You can use a service called Wix and they However, you'll have to pay Wix to be able services like Shopify if you want to set-up a You could also set-up WordPress and this is Then you have two free options You can set-up a blog for your new domain that's set-up a simple site powered by Google Sites Now it says simple site here, but you can we'll walk through how to do that. This opens and I'm convinced. This looks like a pretty start new site. We now have a blank canvas and I see the file name up here You can change this to whatever you want. This is more to help you navigate Down here is the header of our page Up here it asks me to enter a site name, As I hover over, I see that there's Let me add the Kevin Cookie This opens up the settings dialog and Let's click on this. This opens up the Windows file picker and I I'll select this and then click on open. Check that out. That's a pretty nice-looking logo. Now down below, there's something called alt text. Alt text is if someone uses a screen reader it'll use the alt text in place of it. Also, if you hover over it, Now one of the cool things is down below my out the primary colors used in the logo, and I I'll go with this blue color and that I use when I build out my website. Down at the very bottom there's A fav icon is this icon that appears and here too, we can also upload an image This opens up the file picker and I'm going and then click on open. Here now you see the Before we leave the settings announcement banner. At the Kevin Cookie this is one of the most important With a banner, we can show some type I'm going to toggle on show banner I could go with one of these predefined Now, I've always found that that really grabs my attention, Next, I can type in a message, and this is going Order your cookies today for the holidays and thing you'd be amazed about is how much more I can also add a button, and this is basically a call to action or something a visitor can Let me type something in. I typed in order now, and I've also Later on, I can replace this with an order page. I could define whether it opens in a new tab so people stay on the KevinCookieCompany homepage. Here for the visibility, I could set I'll just set it to the homepage. I'm now all done in settings, so let's click on X. Here now you can see my banner on the top of the I think this is going to drive a lot of sales. My web page is starting to come together. I have the top header all in place. Next, I have this big header section and what this looks like. When I hover over, I When I click on this, I can make it smaller. a large banner, or I could even insert a color. So once again, all you have and you could customize what I'm OK with the banner, so I'll leave that as is. Instead of showing text here, I'll click on this text and That removes the text, and it Next, over on the right-hand side, I can click on types of things that I can insert and in a of these things are, but before we do that, I Let's insert an image, so I'll click on images. Next, I'll click on upload. This once again opens up the Windows file picker, and for this one I'll select the Kevin I've now inserted my logo, Luckily, all I need to do is click on I can take my logo and I can drag and drop I'll drag it up into the top header and center The logo right now is a little small I can click on the logo, and I see I can adjust the size of my logo, so let me adjust it so it's a lot I'll try to keep the same aspect ratio and here I'll position it, so my logo appears right in the objects that I've inserted on the page, I I can crop the image, un-crop, I could even but last tweak I want to make in the header I can hover over the header and then I see an I can upload like I did with the logo, or I could This opens up a select images prompt and I could I could also pull in images from a URL. I could images that I have stored in Google Drive. Now I'm looking through the gallery here I'll select that and then This now I inserted my background image and one if I had text on top of this, you'll see down in adjusts it for readability. So here I have so it automatically dimmed the background and helps me make my website look good. My header is now looking pretty good, but website itself. Over on the right-hand you'll see all the different types of I could insert text, images, items from Drive, makes my life a little bit easier, Google has multiple items, so here this first layout will Let me click on this first layout This now inserts another section into my over on the left-hand side, I have a few different in a moment, we'll do this. I can also duplicate Now over here I see a placeholder. and we'll see all the different types This is the official Kevin Let me insert our commercial from This opens up a prompt where I'll look for the Kevin Cookie Company commercial. Here I see that Kevin Cookie I'll select that and then click the select button. This now inserts my YouTube video on my homepage. I can customize the text to go alongside I've typed in our slogan and here too you see that I can I can also click up here if Here I could change it to a heading, I could also go through bold, italicize, and you have all of your typical I want to insert some text, and I'm going to that goes into each cookie at the Kevin Cookie the website and I want to add another section. I like using the layouts because it I don't want another image. I want a little bit of variation, so I want I want this placeholder to and I want all of the text on the left-hand side. I can simply click on this item, and So, I've now placed this on the right I also want to have a little bit of kind of This is white here, so I want Here I'll click on this section and I'll apply a little bit of Now, I think would be a nice touch image carousel that shows some of the Let's insert an image carousel. This opens up a prompt to insert my images. I'll click on the plus icon. I have the option to upload or I'm sure I could find some amazing pictures online Within select images, I'm going I'll simply type in cookies One of the really nice things is by default it so I could use these freely on my and I'll go through and select a few I've now gone through and selected all This looks good. Let's click on insert again and this right now the dimensions are so just like with all of the other items using these blue circles and I'll pull For my image carousel down below, I so I'll insert some text right I'm going to type in cookie gallery with photos. Let me highlight this and I could set a style. can center align my text. Now just like with all and drag it above my gallery, so now I have a nice starting to come together, and the homepage of I want to add some additional pages website. Over on the right-hand Let's click on this. Down below, I can add new pages, Let's click on new page. For the new page, I on done. This mow adds a new page and I see a page If I click back on home, up above, this and here you'll see that I have this Over on the left-hand side, when I hover over this Let's click on this. This opens up settings again for how I show the different navigation links. Right now, it's set to show on the top. Let's see what it looks like if I select the over here and now I get a hamburger menu and when I personally prefer to leave it on top. I think it's a little bit more discoverable. Let me click on the settings gear I also have a few different color options. I can make it white. I can make it black, I think transparent looks the Next, let's go in and build out the recipe page. I've now built out the recipe page and home page where I added a section, For the first recipe, we're going to show Now you might be wondering why am I giving away It's true, but we've recently started selling them, so I think we could really drive some sales list out the chocolate chip cookie recipe, so once and I'll add one more page. I'm going to call This now adds another page One of the things you'll see it added another tab for chocolate chip. I don't want this to be a I want this to be a sub-page of recipes. Can I make it a sub-page? Yes, so over on the right-hand pane, let's click on chocolate chip and I This turns it into a sub-page. So now you see that chocolate chip is When I hover over recipes, you see I can go there, and this drops Over on the right-hand side, if I want to I can simply click on the item and that On the recipe page, I want to link chocolate How do we do that? Well, up on the top tabs, let's click on insert and let's scroll down the list of all Here I want to insert a button. Let's click on button. Here I could type in a name for the Down below, I can select where When I click on link, it shows me all I want to link it to the chocolate chip page, so This now places a button in a new section. I want it to appear in this we can simply click on this button, and So here now I see the chocolate chip cookie I can include other recipes in here as well. Now that I've inserted a button, there's nothing Let's click over on the right-hand side This drops us in the chocolate chip Let's go up to insert and here two column structures. Let's click on this. I've now created my chocolate can see all of the ingredients I think this layout works really well. Now that I'm all done with this, let me click over on the right-hand side When I click on themes, I can different themes and see how it impacts my page. Here I could jump between types and here immediately I'm going to go back to simple and here too you Google selected this color from my logo, I could also choose what type of font weight so once again, it's super easy to customize what I want to show a few other things that you you have these ellipses. When you click on this, So let's say that maybe in a month or but maybe I didn't like them. I can Another neat feature is over I can preview what my site looks like. Here I can click on home, and I can This is all looking pretty good. Down below, right I could also click into tablet to see what my site down to a phone to see how it looks. So it looks Lastly, you don't have to I have lots of recipes. I need to add a lot to be a lot of work for me to do. Up on the top and I can invite other people I've now finished building out my site Let's click on one more thing before we publish and then go over to custom URLs. Here I see that my custom is associated with this Google site. That's exactly what I want, so I'll leave that and later on you want to you can come through here to tie Let's click on X and I'm ready Let's drive in some sales and really spread Let's now click on publish. This now allows me a web address and this is a web address under matter that much because I'm going to say that I have to wait up to 48 hours for the By the time this video comes out, this publish. Now that I've published the site, I and once I'm satisfied with all of those and then whatever changes I make will to the KevinCookieCompany.com and It is a beautiful website. I can navigate and I could jump into my chocolate chip cookie but that's really how easy it is to pull It's extremely easy, you don't All right, that was a quick look at how you have your own domain and website, To see more videos like this in the future, me cover any other topics, leave a comment down I hope you enjoyed, and I hope