This video is going to be a complete beginner Now you might be thinking, well, what is Autodesk Forma And that is a cloud based software for early stage planning and design. You're probably confused and I am as well. So let me explain. This is a web browser based software, so you don't have to if you have Autodesk AC pack. So usually if you have Revit, And what this does, it allows you to pick out the location of your project. It's going to find a map of that project, it's going to going to find the buildings And then you can set up your early stage design so you can find where the location of the project is going to be. You can try out different buildings, you can create And then most importantly, so you can test for sun, daylight, wind, noise, so on and so forth. And once you run all of these analysis, you can compare them. And once you figure out which one is the best, you can actually load it into Revit and it's going So it's going to bring in the toposolid, it's going to bring in the roads, and the building So that's going to be everything which we're going to cover in today's video. Let's go. Now quickly, before we jump into Forma, I would just like to ask you to check out my website I'm going to link it up in the cards above and then also down in If you're serious about the best place to be with over 140 hours of content dedicated to all of the interesting and complex So now, without any further ado, let's jump straight into So here I am at autodesk.com You want to make sure then if you open up here your account, you can go And as long as you have the AEC collection, you should I'm not really sure about Revit if you have Revit only, but with the AEC collection you will So here if I search for Forma, here I'm just going to click Access to open up basically a web browser app. So it's going to switch I'm located I guess in the EU region. And then here you need to choose your Hub. I already have this Balkan Architect Hub, so I'm just going to click there. Or you can create a new one if you want. Now here, this is kind Here we have our projects. So here you can see you have your recent projects, So basically here you you can open them up for your active projects, you can have Or if you just go to projects, it's going to look like this. So that's for the projects, So you can add team members, So you can have them listed out over here. And then if you just go to your home page, this is just going to show your recent projects and Okay, so to start a new to do is you want to go here to create project, and that's going You want to select your country, well, the project location country. So I'm just going to Let's see. Then for the folder, the existing folders, or And then for the projects, let's call this one a Forma test project. You can turn on Invite So if you don't want just anybody to have access and then you And now you need to So you can just zoom in. So I can come here to Serbia and then just zoom in, or I can enter the exact address. So I'm just going to pick So I actually want this Now if I zoom out, you're going to notice that at some point it's just going to lose that rectangle or kind of the border. And here you can click on Confirm. However, if you zoom out far enough, it's not going to allow you to confirm. So basically it is going a certain extent how much But obviously you can't So this is kind of the limit. Once you get the rectangle, you can then click here to confirm map area. So this is in total 1.37 think this is more than enough. So once we have that, it's going to start loading in data for that particular location Once this is done, it's just going to show it and this is what we get. So now we have the other So by default it's going So it is going to have all of the elevation It's not going to be perfectly precise, but overall it's really good. You can opt out for the flat terrain if you want, so just click to select that. I'm just going to keep the regular terrain. You can add buildings So you just click on that and now you get another rectangle. So here you can just pick out kind of where you want those So is it going to be the same area or is it going to be perhaps a smaller area. If you don't want everything case, I'm just going to leave it as is and then click here to order or click on order. And then it was ordered successfully. And then finally we can add roads as well. So here I can come to then I can get roads for Just needs to load in, click order, and now that has been So once we have all of this done, we have our buildings, now we can just exit out of here. And now if I come here to the library, you can see all of those listed here. So I'm just going to close this. It's congratulating, which is nice. Then I am just going to come here to roads. And then you can insert the roads. You just click on these little three dots. You can go to place in canvas and it's just going to load in those roads. You can see from the a few more roads than Only the blue lines are So that's just the info that Autodesk has. So in this case, I'm happy with that. So let's just click Add. And now as you can see, everything with this dark gray is an actual road. Then we can go to buildings. So let's click on the three dots as well place on canvas. So it's going to start Now here, especially for the buildings, you might not want to include all buildings. So what you can do is you can just make a broad selection and just So let's say I don't want to have these ones over here, which I kind of left out. So for that I can just select these ones. As long as they're selected, when I click Add, it's only going to So see here on this side, we didn't really populate this with buildings at all. And that's pretty much it. The terrain is already there. It already has all of the Now when it comes to location, you're going Same thing goes for the roads. So for example, this is what it would look like if you picked out Manhattan. So there's a little bit more detail. Well, it might be a lot more detail, but as you can see, there's just more information So it's going to give you more. In this case, this is all we have, but I think it's more than Now if at any point you need to change something or you some of the houses or the buildings. What you can do is And then here you can changes and then you can So I'm just going to delete these ones here just because this is going to be where we're going to be working at. Okay, so now I'm just and then let's go back And that's where we have our proposals. Now let's cover the interface quickly. So just to compare going to be kind of like And then this is going to be your ribbon as well as your properties panel. So here we have your tools. And then if you select something, this is where you're going to get the actual data for that particular element. So your proposals are So obviously we're going to be working with multiple proposals. So if you have a site, you want to test out multiple ideas, use that data to basically on the whole kind of design approach. So in this case, let's first the first proposal and then So everything that's on the first proposal, third one, something You do that now and So you basically have that on each one of those and it's not So what I want to do a road just to connect So for that, I'm just going to on roads, and then here So you can just come in here and draw a road going in perhaps this existing road here enter key just to complete that road. Okay, moving forward, So here you have the limits and here we have the site limits. You just click on that and now you basically sketch out the site. So the site is going to and then go all the way around So you can just follow And then let's add one more point here. And then I'm just going to hit enter again just to finish that site. And finally something site, which I would like to keep is a tree line following this road here. So for that we can go here to vegetation, tree align, and then I can just create a tree line following Then you want to hit enter. And it's going to place those trees there. You can set their width. So let's go here to 2 meters. And then here you have the spacing. So you can adjust the offset. You can adjust the height of the trees. So let's do something like this. And then for the spacing, And now we have some trees over here. So basically this is going to be the site. This is going to be something that's not going to change from proposal to proposal. And now I can start So for that, let's click here on tree dots, go to duplicate, and that's going to create two additional proposals. So let's just rename this And then this one is going to be renamed into proposal three. There we go. Okay, so let's start off I'm just going to open that one up. And now let's create a building here. So for the building you So I'm just going to come here to generic. And then let's model this as a volume. So you just click on that and then you can start sketching out. And then we can go perhaps like that. You can enter a number here. So if I type in 20, it's just going to go up to 20 meters. And then let's click there, back and yeah, once And then we can just adjust the height. So for height, let's go up to let's go up to something like this. And now we have that building there. Now you can still adjust it, you can move it, you can rotate it. So for example, for rotation, I can just take it and rotate it like this. And now we have our proposal number one. Now for this building, So if I select it, you can We can add floors and this building is going to And then for function, Let's say that this is a commercial space. So I'm just going to adjust it like that. Okay, moving forward, let's now go to our proposal number two. And for the proposal to be building this as a line building. So let's click here online and then let's just adjust this. So the width is going to be 12 meters here. That's perfectly fine. So I'm just going to start And then I'm going to kind of follow the perimeter of this And then complete it like this. So this is going to be our second proposal. We can still now select this. We can go to function. And then let's say this is going to be commercial as well. And then finally for our proposal number three, let's click on that. So it's going to open that up now. And for proposal number three, let's click here on... Let's go back. So you just go here to buildings and then let's do this as a basic building. So what that's going to do is it's just going to allow you to So here, I'm just going to Let's go up something like this, three levels, that's fine. So we have our basic building here. Let's create now a new one. So this one is going to be Again, just following another shape of our site, perhaps like that. And that should be it. And then let's make And then I'm just going So let's do that. And for this one, I'm also going to add a bit more vegetation. So let's add an area of trees over here. So something like that, hit enter. And there we go. We have some trees there, which is nice. And then here you can adjust it so spacing and height can be adjusted. And I'm happy with the Okay, so now we have three proposals. We have proposal number one, which looks like this one big building. Then we have this kind of atrium style building for proposal two. And then for proposal three, we have three individual buildings Finally, we need to adjust the function. So let's set this to commercial. Oops, I want to select the There we go. Select this one, commercial, and then select this one and also commercial. Now you can select individual And then you can actually adjust it. So it kind of works similar to SketchUp. Obviously not exactly the same, but you can adjust it further if you want. So you can kind of select individual elements like this and then play around. And of course you have where you can sketch out For now, I'm just going to keep it with this and then we can explore that in a further video if you're interested. Okay, moving forward, let's now start running the analysis. So for analysis, let's first go to our proposal number one. Then here on the Analyze tab, the first one is Area Metrics, which us some information Then let's go to the sun hours. And here you can set the exact date and then you can run the analysis. Here, once you have the analysis, you're going to be able to view that history. So you can run multiple ones or run once with different settings. So as soon as this is done, it's going to show here, see analysis results. So I'm just going to click on that and then it's going to display the analysis and this is what that looks like. So basically here we have the hours and the sun and then we can just view what that looks like, where's their shade and so on. So I'm just going to go back now and then let's go to the So let's click on run analysis for that. So let's see if we have enough daylight potential or Again, I'm just going to click here on See analysis results as soon as it's done and it's going to look like this. So here we have the analysis and as you can see here, we have a little bit of a troubled area on that of this building, but Something that they find trees it's going to be So if you want to have some trees with windows, well now out which trees actually So moving forward, let's set of analysis which is So for wind you have Comfort and then you have Direction. So again, it's just using all of the data that it has for this particular area. And then I'm just going to go here to Comfort and run the analysis for that. And it's going to look like this. So this is the Comfort analysis. And here it basically is in terms of the wind strolling, walking, and So here for strolling, it's kind of okay. And you can just kind of figure it out around the buildings, it's better. And then here it's fine just to walk by, which kind of makes So that's fine. Then we can go to the Microclimate and then run that analysis. Let's see that. Now click here to see the analysis result. And this is what that Yeah, so it looks fairly fine. So this is for January 02:00. These are going to be the temperatures. So we now have that information as well and how it changes more building and in our area of interest. Now let's go back from And then also here we have the Noise and Operational energy. Now if I click on this, it is going to allow me to run some sort of an analysis. And well, this is the result. It has it's green, so I guess it's good. Now this is a little bit weird. I don't really know what data it's using to get to this, so fine, okay. And then for the noise, it's giving me 100%, which is like woohoo. However, it doesn't So here it says traffic data missing. So I've tried to do or in New York City and So it's going to work areas, obviously depending Now I have run these analysis for all three proposals and now it's So here we have the compare button and that's going to open up our proposals. And then here we have these two areas. So what I can do is I can go to my proposal one and out all of the analysis which we have. Now I'm just going to take the sun analysis or sun hours and place it there. Then what I'm going to do And again I'm just going And then here we can click to add, click to split vertically. Okay, there we go. So we have another field. And then here let's add the sun hours from the third one. And now we can just kind of adjust this a little bit better. So I think this should be right. And now we can actually kind of move around all three of those. And then we can just So here for example, with this one we have a lot of shade. In this particular corner here we have a lot of shading with the trees. Here we don't have that much shade. And we can just kind of compare these three design options and test out different types of analysis in this area. And finally to bring this is we can just go back to go to the projects, Forma test project. So here let's say I want to take this proposal number three. I really like this one and I just want to open it up in Revit and Well now on this is I can just click on the three dots. I can go to Revit and Revit Beta and then we also So I do want to download the Revit add in which is going to happen right now. So here it's downloaded So this is the add in installation process, And then once this is to have this add in inside of Revit. And now we go back here to Revit and then send to Revit beta that the proposal has been sent to Revit. And now I can just minimize my web browser. I can go to Revit, start and then as soon as that opens up, if I go to the masking inside Now we have this forma panel which is that plugin which we have downloaded. And now I can just click on Load proposal and that's going to load it in. It's going to show us our proposal three, load, And once it's loaded, okay, So we can review the warnings if we want. I don't care. Let's open up the 3D view So this is our 3D view. This is where we're at. So this is our proposal. And as you can see here, with this approach to creating buildings, it's It has created a roof. It has these trees. Now this is as a group, let's try these. So these are also some generic model which are part of the group edit group. And now, yeah, you can So those are the trees. If I turn on the shadows, it's going to look a bit nicer. So there we go. We have an actual toposolid, which I think is great value to have an actual Again, it's not going to be terribly precise, but it is really good. And as far as I know, if you create this so if you create this load it in as some sort of a generic model. So if you use a free form tool, it's going to bring it in basically can apply walls and roofs But overall, this is, I does help a lot in the design process. So please tell me in the comment section below, what do you think about forma, Is this something that you plan on using. From what I understand tool that's going to It's a work in progress, but overall I think it is interesting and exciting. And if you want to see more videos, please tell me in the comments below. Also, if you want to get file as well as all of my you can find all of those I'm going to link up in also down in the description of this video. Thank you for watching guys. Make sure to check out my website BalkanArchitect.com for more revit courses. There I have over 120 hours of content and I'm adding more each week. Make sure to subscribe for more videos. And also I've added a video over there that might interest you as well.