BRADY HARAN: You got another TONY PADILLA: I have, yeah. Yeah. It's the-- well, I'll just write That's probably the So it is 10 to the 10 to the and then this is the strange OK? This has been claimed to be the has ever been calculated in a published paper. This is the paper. It's a bit of a weird paper. It's not had a huge impact It's about black hole and conscious beings. We won't go down that route. He actually calculates something recurrence time for a certain certain cosmological model. And this is the number So this is the one Let me just check I got the Yeah. I did. Here it is, equation 16. So he's put Planck times, because basically, it don't whether you use seconds, Planck when the number is this big. But there's other interesting which is this one here. You got three 10's That's the Poincare recurrence BRADY HARAN: What's all TONY PADILLA: OK. So Poincare recurrence time. This is something that's arisen from statistical mechanics. Very simply, if we had a pack of finite number of cards And let's say we keep hands of five cards. Eventually, if we do it for long get a royal flush, Brady. That's guaranteed to happen. And if you wait long enough And so on, and so on, And that's finite number of cards. Now what Poincare realized is particles, you can put Now you can put all the box, and then they'll disperse But Poincare recurrence tells us very, very long time, those return to the corner You always get a repetition. And it's basically because the evolution of that system only call [INAUDIBLE] space, of accessible to it. And so eventually, you always close to where you started. The time scales are truly expecting it to happen. So you can apply this quantum So what you're doing in quantum really talking about is the within the quantums, so these blocks of your system. And they will eventually they will evolve, but eventually initial states. And what Don Page in this paper actually applied that to various models of various types It's a bit of a cheat, because macroscopic object. It's a large object. It's not really a quantum micro What it is, is it an ensemble, microstates. So what he's tried to do is going to treat the universe of all these states. But then I'm going to count up treat them as a sort of So it's a bit of a cheat, but out from that. BRADY HARAN: Are we talking the Andromeda Galaxy's over filming you. TONY PADILLA: Yeah. Yeah. All that. OK? Now there's a very large number you can have, but it's finite. And so as the system evolves, and it can only evolve, the a finite number of And eventually, it evolves So actually, it's-- I've often heard it said that will evolve, will expand. Eventually, everything will be the expansion of the universe. That all objects will have That then those black holes will radiation, and all you will bleak landscape of just these evaporated black holes, and it'll be very boring. OK? But that isn't the end state The end state of the universe is time scales, you will eventually recurrence, and you'll wind up And it's quite easy to see Imagine you have this sort Just have a little That little fluctuation sort of other things. Eventually, it sort of forms From that galaxy, you And you keep going, Eventually, you'll get back to like it is today. Now, what I think is fair-- I think it's a fair point-- is that there's no way of ever repetitions over these And the reason is, you could You could never be an observer And that's because over these device or such an observer would would definitely become part And so there's never anybody could measure it. It's this sort of idea, this is that if you can't irrelevant in some sense. So. BRADY HARAN: But according to in this time, in this number of to make this video again? You and I are going to make TONY PADILLA: Oh, less than that. This is for a special type particularly large. The number for us is at least that he's written down here, 10 to the 10 to the 2.08. I'll just say years. So this one is the one that universe, what we call This one applies to seeing recurrence time for a truly vast you can get out of certain So they're all based, of course, We can work through where So the Poincare recurrence time proportional to the number Because we're applying this to the number of macrostates, the microstates that you So let's call this Nmacro. This, then, where we'd expect it of the number of microstates. Now why is that? Well, this doesn't really It could be a 2 or whatever. Basically, any microstate is averaging with some weighting. And so this is the number The number of microstates when to the entropy. Let's look at some volume of some radius r. Then the entropy-- we've done this before. This is the same arguments the entropy that you could of space, basically it's I'll just be a bit sloppy r squared over the Planck So the next step is e So now let's apply it. So let's apply it to number that he does. The question is, what's r? Well, the radius of the universe meters, our visible universe, What we call our causal patch. The Planck length is about 10 So r over n l Planck squared is is a number you often see This is sort of the number cosmological constant But anyway. Well, 120 is about That's where that I don't know why he's so precise because what he's going the number we have is e the 10 to the 2.08. But what he does here is these e's as 10's. Which is fine, really, in the e, 10. For the sake of cosmology, less the same thing. All the e's become 10's, and 10 to the 2.08. Which hopefully is what he's So that's where that So this is basically the our visible universe, BRADY HARAN: Why is the TONY PADILLA: Well, because there, he's looking at-- he's trying to get a I guess he's doing. He's trying to get What he's looking out there Now, inflation is a model of the the universe grew really quickly patch of the universe. The amount by which it blows parameters in the model. But basically, the thing that of the universe. So r, for that case, the 4 pi over M squared. So this is actually He's done everything But M here is the mass of some the inflaton field. It's just some field that causes the expansion. 1 over M squared is I think this might 10 to the 12. So this is about 10 because 13 is about 10. Bear with me. So this is e to the 10 The 13, well, is about That's where the He's very precise about this with some of the You get e to the e to another the 10 to the 1.1. And then we do the same thing. We turn all the e's into 10's. BRADY HARAN: Help me understand, you have bit numbers there. How long a time is this? TONY PADILLA: OK. So this is truly vast. Like I said, there's no device, anything that could survive length of time scale. In fact, you would probably say likely to tunnel out of the could happen, in some sense. This is such a long time scale actually the probability of the universe, completely to dominate over this. That that would occur first. So maybe this is kind of Yeah. It's truly vast. It's bigger than a Way bigger. Is it bigger than I think so. So you know, let's Yeah, clearly it is. It's enormous. It won't be as big as Graham's number's the daddy, right? So. Well, I didn't actually But yeah, I was just-- I just thought, oh, Let's see what's interesting And then I stumbled What he claims-- in he claims, &quot;So far as I know, times that have been explicitly physicist.&quot; So whether somebody longer one-- and I'm sure some of the viewers a longer one and then but this is in a published So you've got to get the But the challenge is on, I There probably has been, too, pointed it out.