- [Narrator] In 1994, the &quot;Burger Town&quot; traveled to interview then 84 who, along with his brother, Mac, founded McDonald's Hamburgers in 1948, which started the fast food revolution that changed everything. This is the story of the real founder. (jazzy piano music) You interviewed Dick McDonald in 1994, who along with his brother, the most influential person when they started McDonald's Hamburgers. Tell us how did this interview come about and what were your initial when you first met him? - In 1994, I was producing a documentary called &quot;Burger Town.&quot; It's about the history of coffee shop, drive-in and hamburger scene. And I went about producing this the history, post World Now, if you're going to tell this story, you have to tell the story in southern California. The McDonald brothers, to the history of the of southern California. The McDonald brothers invented the speedy system of serving up hamburgers. And so I arranged to meet Dick McDonald through a gentleman, through Jeffrey Tennyson. Jeffrey Tennyson wrote a book and Jeffrey was in our He talked about his the southern California He was wonderful. Jeffrey knew Dick McDonald his own book. And so we arranged to meet Dick McDonald. And we pulled up to Dick McDonald's house. It was a modest home by any, you know, neighborhood standards. He comes greeting us with a big smile on his face. He had this resplendent brown He had a matching pocket square, a tie. And what I remember about Dick he was very jovial, very energetic. He just was happy to see us. And he was ready to tell us his story. And that story began in (mellow guitar music) - Well, in those days, this The town we lived in in Just about bankrupt. The town was down and as there just weren't So you either worked at a shoe factory or you worked at a mill. And it was tough even So we knew we had to do something. So that was when, through a had been in California many, many years and had gotten a job on the So throughout the years, he got to know quite a few of the movie people so he told my brother, he said, &quot;Mac,&quot; &quot;if you want to come &quot;I can get you a job So that was how it started and then about a year later, my brother said, &quot;If you want to come So I got a job there. So that was how that all all started. Well, we were just really let's be honest about it. We would push the sets around, we would drive the trucks, take the folks out on location if they were shooting location, And that was it. But I loved it there. God, it was interesting, you know, for me, just coming out from New Hampshire. But my brother and I could see that there were no opportunities there. 20 years from now, we'd still and pushing the sets and we had to make a change. (mellow guitar music) Yeah, we found this little that this old gentleman to unload the lease, say. And of course, we didn't have any money, so we heard about it through So we went out to see we said, &quot;We're going to lay it on the line, &quot;we don't have any money, but &quot;from under this lease so &quot;and if we make any money, &quot;and talk about it.&quot; So that was... And we ran that for, oh, about seven years, Those were the Depression years, you know, the thirties, from '31 to about '38 and everybody in the town was The businessmen, you know, the department store, because nobody had any money. This was an orange grove people weren't buying oranges. So those were tough, tough years. - The only business making Los Angeles at the time was the food business. And so Dick and Mac decided to get into the food business themselves. - Well, there was a fellow in and a hot dog stand. Fellow named Walter Wiley and he was doing most of the business in town. He was doing okay. So one day my brother said, you know, &quot;Dick,&quot; &quot;I think we're in the wrong business.&quot; He says, &quot;Wiley's the only one making any money.&quot; So we built a little roadside stand near the Santa Anita racetrack and we just sold hot And the reason for the this town, we had, the It was an orange grove town. (mellow jazzy piano music) We ran that from 1937 to 1940. And in 1940-- In the meantime, we had wanted to build a real drive-in, you know, get away from just the hot dogs and orange juice. But once again, McDonald but everything but money. This was funny. We'd go to a bank and this loan officer, and he looked down his nose at us. First thing, &quot;What do you boys have for collateral?&quot; We said, &quot;Collateral? All we have is a big smile. So one after another just turned us down. Well, we thought that San Bernardino was a blue collar town, working man's town, and that's what we wanted. We weren't trying to get the country club set or the socialites. This thing we wanted to and San Bernardino seemed to do that in. And so when we opened with the car hops, that was in 1940 and the opening went relatively smoothly. We had been going through and so we didn't have any problems. But one problem we began to have was the car hops and the fry cooks. And the fry cooks would and if they couldn't get a date, that poor car hop's a little slow getting to her. So, oh yeah, well we going out with the customers, too We said, &quot;If these fellas are gonna &quot;you don't want to start with us. &quot;And one other thing,&quot; we said, &quot;If you have any intention of not working &quot;Friday and Saturday &quot;because it's just a waste of time &quot;filling out the application.&quot; Those were our two big nights. But it was a terribly slow. It was a slow system. Terribly slow. My brother and I would And first of all, the and the car hop would take then she'd go back to the drive-in. Then she'd go back out again, So they'd be back and And the system just... We could see that, you know, we were kind of jet propulsion and this was really a horse and buggy operation. So that sorta put the idea. We knew we had to do something Well of course, in those was starting to come into vogue anyway so that sort of a put the idea into our head but we wondered being served in their See, we were there from 1940 and oh, they loved this car service, especially when it was rainy and so forth. But we decided to take we closed it down and when people found out they thought we had gone insane. 'Cause we had a great business. We had the most popular drive-in in town and people couldn't understand. They said, &quot;My God, the McDonald's &quot;losing their minds.&quot; But that was it. There was just a case of complaints and we could see that They wanted the car hops and they didn't want to have And also, because we had and dishes, everything was on paper and they weren't too happy about that. They just weren't happy and made no bones about letting us know it too. Well it took off very slowly, very slowly. First month it was pitiful, you know? People would come in, wanted a car hop. At night, they'd blink their lights 'cause they wanted car hops. We had signs all over the much attention to signs. And this went on first into the third month. It had picked up a little bit, but sometimes in the old days, we'd look out on the parking Now, we look out there and maybe two of them were our employees that were parked out there. So it was tough. Three different times, we because we just couldn't And one day my brother says, &quot;You know, Dick,&quot; &quot;It looks like this was a dumb idea.&quot; He said, &quot;Should we call back the car hops?&quot; Well I said, &quot;If you want to do it, I'll go along.&quot; But our pride, God, our pride was hurt to think this was going So we decided, let's try it. Let's hang on a little bit longer. So we did. Well on about the end of the third month, it began to pick up a the sales clerks, construction workers, cab drivers, and they Or they could come in and bingo. So from then on, the thing just took off. And another big factor, They, for some reason, loved and put the order in themselves, carry the tray out. The kids loved it. So of course, when we had the kids, we had mama and papa, too. So as word began to throughout the country, a little publicity in the trade magazines, and the first thing we knew, people were converging what this was all about. We didn't call it fast food then, we didn't call it anything. (mellow guitar music) Well, when we decided to franchise, we knew this older circular building that we had was obsolete. And we knew that we had So then we tried a couple of architects and they came up with these buildings. But they were low and oh, more like a Dairy Queen So one night I'm in my office and I'm trying to do anything a little height. So at that time, we lived in a big colonial four southern columns. So I drew in four columns. Well, they looked terrible. So then I drew in one with the building and So then I tried two arches the and that seemed to lift the building up. And that's the story of the golden arches. (mellow guitar music) We tested among the old crew, and different kinds of relishes, and it seemed as the most popular ended up with. And we didn't have too special orders, but we still, we hated to hear 'em because the whole production line. Well the way we were on the hamburgers was We'd have a container of mustard, and so forth. And the boy would take a spoon and he pot it in and put a dab of mustard. But we found out, he found his operation up, he'd two or three hamburgers. So one hamburger would the other one would have... So one day, I went to LA and I remember that the candy stores used to sell. So I found this candy factory &quot;Could I speak to the, the manager?&quot; And he said, yes. So, a nice young lady came out and I said, &quot;I'm a writer.&quot; And I said, &quot;I'm a freelance writer and &quot;on how candy's made, see?&quot; &quot;Oh,&quot; &quot;Come on,&quot; And I said, &quot;I don't know if I can get But I said, &quot;I'll sure try.&quot; &quot;Oh, come on in.&quot; So she started taking me These big vats of chocolates, you know? Well what I wanted was So I said, &quot;By the way, when I was a kid,&quot; I said, &quot;little mint, peppermint patties.&quot; I said, &quot;Oh,&quot; &quot;We make those over here.&quot; And they had this marble and they had this cone and a hole in the bottom. So they fill it with a confectionary and when they lifted the of the confectionery came out. &quot;Well, that's all I needed,&quot; I thought, &quot;That's the answer.&quot; We'll do that with our So I thanked her and I said, &quot;Now, if I got this in Now I wouldn't dare tell you what candy place 'cause she come out today if she's still alive But anyhow, I went back to San Bernardino. I said to my brother, I So we had a machinist in experimental work for us. So we told him about the cone shape. So he made the cone shape thing with the stick and it worked but if they lift-- when they pull the stick out too much, you'll get too much. And if they pushed the you had a little dob. So his name was Ed Toman. So I said, &quot;you can put some kind of a Well he said, &quot;We'll try.&quot; Well one of the time, he and the mustard would not So sometimes when we drip through, but he (mellow guitar music) Well, you know, we came very close to discontinuing franchise. We had sold, I think, The first one was to a who bought it for Phoenix. And Fox had a lot of money, he had a chain of filling stations around Los Angeles. Well he came to us with his of salmon ships up in Seattle and they wanted to quit the franchising and they would put up all the money and we'd have our own units. And they wanted to build the Pacific coast for us So we told Neil Fox, &quot;Neil, this is gonna take &quot;to get something like that.&quot; He says, &quot;We've got the money, don't But the more we thought we'd been in business quite a and we knew what was gonna happen. We were going to have to run these, see? That was the stipulation with Neil Fox. McDonald brothers were gonna... Well that would mean we're traveling all over the country, we'd have all the grief of the problems and neither one of us had any kids, we had nobody to bring into our business. And we had a big meeting his name was Smith from Seattle. And we said, &quot;Well, we've decided to go We told them why, we said, &quot;Well, and this'll be a tough program &quot;to have to do... &quot;Get the locations, get the financing, &quot;get the buildings up, and We said, &quot;We wish you'd have come &quot;Boy, we'd have kissed you, you know?&quot; So first off, our first idea was not for them to use the name, McDonald's. We were just going to the design, the equipment layout. They could come to our for their training, with their managers, and then that was it, see? Flat fee, $2500 bucks, that was it. We had to have a franchise agent. We had to have a company, So that was how we fellow named Bill Tansey. And Bill had been sales Either Arden Farms or one of those big outfits. Typical salesman, just like Ray Kroc, you know, very aggressive. So Bill started with us about 20 franchises. And we opened, I think, nine places. But then Bill had some bad health problems and he had to withdraw. - [Narrator] We're about talk about Ray Kroc and how their relationship started and how it ended. A film called &quot;The Founder&quot; and it was the story about Ray Kroc and the McDonald brothers. Do you think Dick McDonald about this movie? And why do you think so, if you do? - Yes, I absolutely believe that Dick McDonald would have been happy with the movie, &quot;The Founder.&quot; I was thinking those thoughts I was thinking about my and things he was trying to convey to me. On the big screen, you see Ray Kroc in all his naked ambition and how he, you know, finessed the operation away from the McDonald brothers. It's up there on the big screen. (mellow guitar music) - In the meantime, Ray because we had been selling so many of his milkshake machines. He was selling milkshake machines. That was good. He said, &quot;You going to use my milkshake machines &quot;in the McDonald's?&quot; We said, &quot;We intend to, it's a good product.&quot; So he went back to Chicago, about a week later, he called and he said, &quot;Say, I understand that you've I said, &quot;We sure have.&quot; He said, The milk mixer business was going downhill because the drugstores were They would raise big customers like the drug stores, you know? And so he could see that his business was going to be... were going downhill. So that's how we said, &quot;Well, come on out, we'll have a session &quot;with our attorney and and make a long story Ray went to work as our franchise agent. The first time we talked to him, we could tell that he was Very aggressive. Which you have to be to be a salesman. He was a typical... Had a nice personality and a terrific worker. We were very pleased to have Ray come with us. He went to work for us as and worked for us til 1961. Now, during that entire period, there was never any mention of McDonald's, he was a franchise agent. But, when we sold out to him, boy, we were shocked. We started reading the media, &quot;Ray Kroc, founder of McDonald's.&quot; We weren't too happy about that. We had a very strict and we had the same They could not change a single item. They could not change the price. They could not add an item. They couldn't make a without the written approval And that led to a little friction later on because Ray thought we were But that was it. They had to get permission from the McDonald Well the deal was, as I recall it now, and we're going back he was going to charge $1900 for a franchise and 1.9% of their gross sales. McDonald brothers were to get a half of 1% of the gross sales. And then he was already having too many expenses so we upped the down payment and so forth. But that was the initial payment. It was $1900 plus 1.9% There was a little friction Ray thought we had too Ray was a great idea man and he'd have one probably every 15 minutes. But some of them were not gems. So they began to have a little friction back and forth there because he felt that he was not given enough So one thing kind of led to another. One day my brother said, you know, &quot;Poor Ray, he's worried.&quot; He says, &quot;Let's tell him if he wants You know, if you give he can forget the McDonald brothers. Yeah, next time we talked to him, we said, &quot;Ray, you know, you've been talking about &quot;wanting to buy us out.&quot; I said, &quot;We want three million bucks.&quot; So we said, &quot;There's gonna be a lot So that was the whole thing. I think they finally... After we paid all the taxes, federal and California had a stiff tax, I remember that my brother and I, we each had a million bucks in cash. Ray wanted to fine us 'cause gonna take about $3 million in cash. So we said, &quot;No, Ray, it has to be a cash deal.&quot; So he was mad, he says, &quot;The McDonald's brothers, &quot;they're millionaires now,&quot; he said, So he said... Or we said, &quot;Ray, if we don't get the &quot;go along with a royalty deal.&quot; And so he finally got he got it from... There were four colleges. There were Princeton University, there was a women's college Swarthmore, there was the Negro and if I'm not mistaken, the Ford Foundation came in on that deal, came up with the... but Ray said later on, he said, &quot;It actually costs me &quot;the McDonald brothers.&quot; He said, &quot;paying all the interest to he says, &quot;18 million bucks.&quot; I think the one thing is You have a very short span. I know many people, they, it looks to me like they think I've got news for them. They're not gonna live forever. And I say, try to enjoy it. Try to have some good friends that you can socialize with. But relax. Don't get all tightened up. Don't be worried about six months now. It's not going to do a bit of good Take it easy and enjoy life. (upbeat jazzy music) Powder your face With sunshine Put on a great big smile Light up your eyes With laughter Folks will be laughing Whistle a tune Of gladness Gloom never was in style The future's brighter When the hearts are lighter So try and smile