What kind of sect are they from? Don't say anything. Even if they dare to come up, they can't beat Brother Chong Yueying. Cousin Chong is so good. If you marry her, I, as a father, will feel relieved. What are you talking about? Brother Chong is really good at it. What a pity. Zhu Wan stopped writing. Brother Chong, what a great kung fu! I'm here, Lu Yong. I'm here to ask what kind of kung fu this is from our sect. It seems to be the descendant of the Eagle Claw Sect. Why doesn't my cousin fight back? Could it be that Murong Chong can't beat him? He usually said He is a martial arts prodigy. In fact, he does not live up to his name. What kind of kung fu and what kind of method is this? It is so powerful. It is really powerful. Dad, who is brave enough to win? Murong Chong has no power to fight back. Chong'er has such good skills. Yes, how could it be him? Yes Ah, yes, how could it be him? How could it be him? How could he come? Who is the scum? Is n't that Lu Yuyong? Come on, hurry up and capture him. A person like this evil and evil can sneak into Murong's house in Shengyue Mountain to participate in the leader meeting. There must be a conspiracy. Take him down first and wait for me to interrogate the second young master in detail. Spare your life. Second young master, spare your life. Second young master, spare your life. Absolutely. Can't spare him. Second Young Master, spare your life. Second Young Master, spare your life. Second Young Master, spare your life. It's a disaster. Yes, the fight was really good. Will these two masters, Si Yun and Murong Chong, be as lucky as yesterday? I don't know, but it shouldn't be that simple today. Murong Chong defeated yesterday. Although Lu Yuyong seems to be relaxed, he has suffered internal injuries. Now he is just holding on. He will definitely die today. He will rebel against the Kung Fu of this three-legged cat. Where is the second master, He Yishou, come to learn the clever tricks? You have to be careful. This is What kind of kung fu? This is such a weird move. It's impossible. How could Murong Chong beat He Yishao? It's impossible. What kind of routine is this? The second young master is nothing more than this. Chong'er is really good at stealing the chicken. If he fails, he will lose the rice. I'll tell you. Well, you have to retreat back home at the dry point. You can't imagine that his martial arts has reached such a level. Could it be that he has practiced the Secret of Mountains and Seas? But since the eldest brother became the leader, he has never heard about the whereabouts of the Murong family's Secrets of Mountains and Seas. Anyone else who is not convinced can just come forward. Come and fight Murong Chong. Is there anyone who is willing to come over? Okay , okay, good leader, the leader is mighty and fights well. Leader, the leader is mighty and good. Master, the leader is mighty and good. Master Murong, fight well. The leader is really powerful. The leader has good skills and is good at following. From today onwards, I, Chong'er, will be on top of everyone. I, Chong'er, will be on top of everyone. I am indeed well-deserved. I am convinced. I respectfully ask the leader to take over. I respectfully ask the leader to take the throne. I respectfully ask the leader to take the throne. I respectfully ask the leader to take the throne. I respectfully ask the leader to take the throne. Respectfully. The leader of the alliance, please take the throne. The leader of the alliance, please take the throne. The leader of the alliance, please take the throne. Big brother, big brother and second brother. Since it is you who want to see me, why do you need to fake someone else's mouth? I'm afraid that you will ask eldest brother in my name. Your eldest brother will not accept the invitation. Stop beating around the bush and ask me out. What on earth are you going to do with the blood poison at this point? The crows have all been recruited. Shouldn't you give me and Zhu Wan an explanation? Even if you can prove that I used the blood poison to harm you, how dare you tell me how you detoxified it? Do n't be so sanctimonious here. My father loves Soo Wan, so I don't dare to tell him what's going on. But that doesn't mean I will let you go. Although I have never met Zhen Soo Wan, she is the closest relative to you and me after all. But for your own selfish desires, you did things that are unacceptable to God for the sake of your own selfish desires, regardless of the lives of others. Don't be hypocritical here. Didn't you also survive by stepping on her corpse? This palm was to restore the life of the dead Murong Zhuwan. Murong Tuan, stop it. Ah Xi, Murong Chong. What about you? Murong Tong has gone crazy. I have been seriously injured. Please leave first. I wo n't leave. Ah Xi, Ah Xi, come on. Come on, let's go. Ah Xi, Ah Xi. Take it. We are friends now. Who are you? You said you have no family. I am your family. I will definitely find a good family for you in the future. You said you are so powerful. I think it is a waste to protect me. How about we open an escort agency? I am a good young man. Young Master, are you okay? Young Master, Young Master, Young Master, Young Master, Black Hawk, Black Hawk, Black Hawk, I'm sorry, Black Hawk, Black Hawk, I'm sorry, Black Hawk, I didn't mean it, Black Hawk, Black Hawk , I didn't mean it. This is not intentional, Ayou, Ayou, Ayou, please listen to my explanation, listen to my explanation. Don't explain. You are possessed. Ayou, Ayou, I beg you, please don't tell it. If you tell it and let the world know, I will be finished. You shouldn't be like this. You shouldn't be like this. Ayou, I know it's wrong. I really know it's wrong. Ayou, but I'm too late. I'm too late. Please help me. Please help me. Please help me. Please help me. I beg you to help me. Help: Many people died in the historian. That big devil kills people without blinking an eye. Help: Where are the people who are coming? He is killing people. Help: Murong Yan, Murong Chong and others got the stolen goods. What else can you say? This matter was not done by me. We were all beaten when we came here. Kill, shut up, you liar. I, Hong'er, am in vain for being so affectionate to you. This is how you treat him. You guys, capture these two people back. Murong Chong must not be careless. Let's run. Zhu Wan, go back quickly and protect the Murong family. As long as you are alive, they will definitely My sister-in-law, who doesn't know how to treat me, handed over the Secret Book of Mountains and Seas to Murong Chong to quell the public anger. Don't even think about going to the police to kill, kill, kill, kill, I did n't do it to kill A Ming. Don't you believe me? Of course I believe you. It was Murong Fang who secretly So what if you have practiced magic skills? They are all members of your Murong family. My Xie family is so innocent. I want your entire Murong family to bury my Xie family with me. I come to Yueying and leave this place of right and wrong quickly. But what should I do with Cousin Chong? Murong Chong will definitely lose in this battle. Cousin Chong will not lose. Let's go. I wo n't go. I won't go. Go, Chong'er, kill the young master. Go quickly, young master, go quickly. Cousin, Chong'er. Chong'er, be careful of Chong'er, mother, Chong'er, Chong'er, you have to be good mother, take good care of yourself, mother, mother, mother, Murong Chong, Murong Chong, Murong Chong, Murong Chong, walk away, why are you still dazed, go away quickly, Abao, Abao, Abao, it's okay. I'm afraid that Master is here. Master, Master, Teng'er, Teng'er. This is not what I want. It's so far away. Why haven't we arrived yet? Stop your own people. Stop your own people. Don't you know who I am? If you don't go back, why don't you leave? I am Fu Yao, hurry up and hide. Our journey is very secretive. We are walking on a mountain path. How come we are suddenly caught up with someone? There is a traitor. I captured a remnant of the Murong family. Murong Bao used him as bait. I don't believe that Murong Chong. I heard that my niece Yueying and this Murong Bao have a teacher-student friendship. Mr. Fu was joking. I was never familiar with this Murong Bao, but Murong Zhuwan was close to him. That girl's origin is unknown. It's not the original Murong Zhuwan. I still don't know where she came from. If she appears, I will definitely catch her and torture her severely. Master Su, then you go look for clues on him to stop Zhuwan. Run. They want to arrest you. Run. Dad, Murong Zhuwan, you are so brave, you actually killed the leader of the Su family in broad daylight. Come on, get the person and get it for me. Come on, leave me alone. Come on, daddy, let's go together. Zhuwan, Zhuwan, Ah Bao, let go of Ah Bao and kneel down. You let go of A Bao unless you tell me Murong Chong's whereabouts, Su Wan, don't believe him. I will go to your A Bao, A Bao, and Bao. Anyone who dares to touch Su Wan will definitely kill her. She will kill my father, Murong Chong, A Bao, A Bao , Ah Bao, don't scare me. Ah Bao, don't scare me. Soo Wan, don't cry. Don't cry. Ah Bao doesn't hurt. Soo Wan. Ah Bao. Soo Wan. It's enough for me, Ah Bao, to know you in this life. Ah Bao, Ah Bao, don't do this. Ah Bao, me. Nothing is gone. Abao, Abao, Zhuwan, you are so good. We will be friends from now on. Do you think the me last year is better or the me this year? Then it must be the you this year. Finally, you don't have to be bullied by Murong Qing and the others. Zhuwancai You're not stupid. It's just intermittent mental disorder. You're rich. Who said we are good brothers? I gave you the longevity lock. Do you like it? I like you because you are jealous that she is Mr. Fu's unmarried wife, so you target her everywhere. Last time, you almost killed her. Her murder this time was even more outrageous than last time. What are your intentions? Abao, Abao, Su Yueying, I want to kill you, Brother Hong. Fu Hong, why are you the one who stopped me? She killed Abao, Murong Chong, I want you to be Meng Tang. Brother Hong, why are you doing this? Wait, the city lord, Murong Chong, is practicing the Secret of Mountains and Seas. This person should be killed. But if he dies, the Secrets of Mountains and Seas will be nowhere to be found. It turns out that you are also doing it for the Secret of Mountains and Seas. Second Uncle, you took Murong Chong into the dungeon first. I will personally interrogate them and take them away. Search carefully. You guys, follow me over there to see how Miss Zhuwan and Fu Hong are doing now. It will take time for the young master and the second young master to recover their internal strength. The situation is very bad right now. Miaowa's trap has been almost exhausted. What should I do now? If I want to buy time, I have another way, but it will put you two in danger. Let Miss Zhuwan send the search. Be careful and chase Meng Tang there. Chase, hurry up, catch him, don't let him run away, Xi Feng, what's going on? He met Murong Tuan in the woods, take care of him. I'll go find Meng Tang, are you okay? Be careful, what's wrong with Mr. Xi Feng, Xi Feng? It's okay to be injured by Murong Yan. What about Zhuwan? Zhuwan has gone to see Meng Tang. You need to recover from the injury as soon as possible. There will be a fierce battle next. Brother Hong is right. It's important that you recover from the injury first. Meng Tang. Tang, Zhuwan, don't worry. Brother Hong and I will not let them get hurt. Come and help you into the house. I'll come. I'll come. I'll come. I hope Brother Hong's skills will recover quickly. I hope Ah Chong's skills will recover soon. Our current skills are only half. I know how the two of them add up. Zhu Wan, you must be fine. Brother Hong, you must also be fine. How should we go next? Ah Chong, do you know that you are all close confidants of the Murong family and the Fu family? Now that Mr. Murong and the young master are in trouble, please help me. Help us overcome this difficulty. We will follow the city lord to the death. The entrance must be nearby. Search for me about Miss Soo Wan's situation. They are coming up soon. The mechanism is behind that tree. If someone touches it, the blindness will disappear and they will find the entrance. Go and lure them away. Don't move. I still have this. Don't give it back to me. If you don't want me to search the door, please take your Su family to explore the road first. More than half of our Su family members were killed or injured. You still let us, the Su family, go to explore the road. What are your intentions? Who are you? Get out of my way, all the rubbish. They are about to find the entrance. If they find the entrance, will they find us immediately? Jiuju Mountain is not that simple. We have only one last option. Run quickly, City Lord. We have been ambushed. Brothers have suffered heavy casualties. The more it is like this, it means that we are closer to the entrance. You are not injured, right ? I am fine with you. Thanks to the elixir you brought back, my internal injuries have been completely recovered. However, the internal strength has not been recovered. How many 50% are you? 60%. Now there is only one way. I can't pass on my inner strength to you. You have to retain your strength so that you can protect yourself. In your current state, you two can't beat Murong Xin at all. If you two die, I, Meng Tang, and Xi Feng will fight together. But I think Miss Soo Wan is right. Stop grinding. What's this little internal strength? I'll be back soon after just two bowls of rice. Just treat it like I borrowed it from you. Remember to return my blindness in the mountains. The law has been eliminated. Come to the mountain for me, Meng Tang. You are indeed not dead. No need to worry, Lord City Lord. Fu Hong used Meng Tang to fake his death and turned against Murong Chong to deceive everyone. It can be seen that these two people have evil intentions. Where did Fu Hong and Murong Chong hide and lose them ? I sent you two watchdogs to block the road. If you don't show up at this time, are they just acting like fools? Those who dare to insult the young master are just a servant in the dead zone. His reputation is not small. With your talents, I think you can stir up trouble. How big of a wave is coming today, I will not let you scum of the world escape again. Brother, you are so ambitious. You secretly practiced the secrets of mountains and seas, went crazy and went crazy, created a massacre, and designed to blame brothers. Today, you still want to kill people and silence them to avoid future troubles. Brother, I did it before. I didn't know you had such ambitions, otherwise I would have given up my position as leader of the alliance to you. What nonsense are you talking about? Everyone in the world knows that you are the demon who will destroy families. Death is imminent. You still dare to accuse me, Murong Qing? You don't really think that. Fu Shou will help you revive the Murong family and help you sit on the supreme position. I kindly remind you not to be used by him. This Fu Shou is a person that even his own brother and sister-in-law would dare to kill. Hu Mingming, it is obviously you, the devil, who joined forces with Fu Hong. If you want to cause harm to the world, I think you are stalling for time. I have found my father's real suicide note and he told me the whole truth. It was you who arranged for the maid to feed my mother a large amount of safflower, causing her to collapse during childbirth. He also bribed Po Wen to frame him for the Murong family. During the fight for power, you poisoned my father's tea and forged evidence to point the finger at the Murong family. The purpose was to turn Murong Chong and I against each other, and even sent people to hunt down Yao and me many times. Yao, you still have such a thing! How can you be so cruel? I call you second uncle! Don't listen to these two devils talking nonsense. Murong Chong's destruction of the family is obvious to everyone. These two devils, these two The devil is practicing the magic of mountains and seas. He has become obsessed with practicing the magic of mountains and seas. Fu Hong is shielding the devil. Fu Hong is obviously on the same side as him. It is a fact that you used the magic of mountains and seas to kill our head of the Su family, Fu Hong. The Su family will swear to the death to avenge our Su Clan Master. Avenge the Clan Master. Avenge the Clan Master. Avenge the Clan Master. Avenge the Clan Master. Avenge the Clan Master. Kill, kill, kill, kill. Brother Hong, these people are really stupid and cannot understand me. I went to wake them up and their skills have grown a lot. It turns out that Murong Tong is the devil Murong Chong and Fu Hong. If you dare to cause trouble, see how I will deal with your father. The child is unfilial and the child is useless. Father, the two of them are so powerful together. I have absorbed so many people. I still can't defeat them with my skills. That's why, Dad, give me time. As long as you give me time, I will definitely defeat those two demons. Dad, you believe me, I believe my father, father, father, I am your son. You don't have time anymore. You have the qualifications. It's an honor for you to be able to use Ping Ping for me. Leader, leader, leader, I've almost done what we discussed. Only the eldest son is missing. Murong Chong and Fu Hong have already practiced the magic of mountains and seas. My eldest son is so powerful. I have sucked him in. Your mission is considered completed. Dad, is what you just said true? Why, of course, it is for the secret book of mountains and seas. As long as the cultivation is successful, I can dominate all this. Fortunately, you have lived up to my expectations and it has not been in vain. I have worked hard for more than ten years. I have worked hard for more than ten years. I have worked hard for more than ten years. I have devoted myself to practicing the secrets of mountains and seas. But I was unable to understand the secrets of it until one day I discovered that the secrets of mountains and seas require people with the four attributes of righteousness, yin and yang to practice successfully separately and then merge them into one magical power to achieve it. And each of you is my pawn, including your father. He has been killed by me a long time ago. I pretended to be the leader of the alliance and planned it. I pretended to be the leader of the alliance and designed it so that you can get the secrets with corresponding attributes. Each of you can practice and go to Xiangzhou to take care of your ancestral business. Study this scripture carefully. Secrets of Mountains and Seas. I will smoke it after you have mastered it. With your skills, I am the second one. Cheng Qianyi, go to hell. Cheng Qianyi, brother Hong, stopped just in time. Zhuwan, Zhuwan, he is no longer his father. His father was already killed by him. He is now a monster. Everything was done by him. You are not my father, so you did all this, right? You did it just for the secret book of mountains and seas. You did not hesitate to sacrifice human life, causing the Murong family to be wiped out and the world was in turmoil. So many people died in vain in front of you. Is it worth it for this broken secret book? Cheng Qianyi, I want it. Becoming the second Cheng Qianyi, you are also one of the chess pieces in my hand. My good daughter Zhuwan, careful father, Xiaoxiaowan, you can rest assured that as a father, I will find a good doctor for you and completely cure your disease. My own daughter is also There is no mistaking that this corpse is not Xiaowan. I remember that your favorite thing to eat since childhood was shrimp. You are my father's biological father. Isn't it wrong for you to be good to you? Who is good to you? In my father's heart, Xiaowan is the best gift God has given to my father. Ah Bao, I want to kill you. Why are Brother Hong and his gang more clingy than dog-skin plasters? Can't we kill them first and then run away? Can't we kill them first and then run away? We can't stay. If they have accomplices lurking nearby, it will be bad for us. Ah Bao doesn't know. After all, this kid is messing with me. Why didn't you leave him and run away alone? I was afraid that he would die and haunt me. He would knock on my window in the middle of the night and knock on my window in the middle of the night. You couldn't bear to leave him, right? I'm so sorry for Murong Chong. Murong Chong, Murong Chong, Murong Chong, do n't die, Murong Chong, don't die, Murong Chong, Murong Chong, Murong Chong, Murong Chong, wake up, shake me again, you're really dead, you're scared to death, I'll help you up, I'll protect you Xinmai, please help me pull out the arrow from the back. If you pull out the arrow rashly, you will die. Don't worry, I have my own sense of control. Are you okay now? It 's okay. I'll try to shoot you. That man in black seems to be deliberately forcing me to fall into the secret realm. Who is it ? There is a cave over there. Go and take a look. It hurts. Wait a minute. I didn't expect there to be such a place in Shengyue Mountain. I'm going to take a look. Be careful. You can take a look at your injuries first. Don't delay. I'll go and give you to you first. Find some herbs and be careful. Okay, is this technique a secret book of mountains and seas? God bless me, Murong Chong. I should not die. I have searched all around for where this secret realm is. I will look for it again. There is no need. The news may be false. Meng Tang, give me a slap, give you a slap, young master, are you okay? Don't show up again until the drill is over. Okay, then be careful, Mr. Fu, where are you, Su Wan? Just now we met the killer, I asked. Zhuwan and Achong left first. Let's go find them. Mr. Fu, you're injured and I'm fine. Let's find Zhuwan and Achong first. Then I'll help you walk. You're lucky. There are herbs in this cave. You know the effect of herbal medicine on hemostasis. I have also read medical books. You have read medical books. You look down on me. There are treasures in my belly. I dare to risk your life to guarantee that there is absolutely no problem with this medicine. What are you doing? Don't worry about me. I'm not interested in you. Your figure isn't as good as Mr. Fu's. What did you do to Brother Hong ? We are engaged people. Isn't it normal for us to do anything? Stop moving. Your wound is just about to break away. You're kidding. We both didn't do anything. I'll come on my own. I'll support myself. This cave seems to have been specially built by someone. How much manpower does it take? It seems that the people who built this cave didn't want to let the people who came in out. Murong Chong Murong Chong Murong Chong Murong Chong Why are you so hot? Zhu Wan A Chong Zhu Wan Zhu Wan Zhu Wan Are you awake? How do you feel? It's okay. Are you hungry? Eat something first. Where did you get it? Then what about you? I just ate quite a few when you were in a coma. Now I'm very supportive of you. Can I starve myself? Here is this for you. I don't want to eat. I've already eaten. Let's go over there and see if there is a way. Poor guy. Belly, be good. He is a patient. We cannot bully the weak. When I go out, I will definitely treat you to a delicious meal. Chong cousin, Chongdi Zhuwan, Chongdi Zhuwan, Chong cousin, Zhuwan, Chongcousin , Chongdi Zhuwan, Chongdi Zhuwan. Cousin, where are you? Zhu Wan, Zhu Wanchong, cousin Zhu Wan Chong, brother Zhu Wan, Zhu Wan, Zhu Wan, Murong Chong, Murong Chong, you can't go on like this. Come on, sit down. Zhu Wan, stop quickly. This place is dangerous. What should you do if you don't have enough internal strength? You forget. I'm a person who has had a golden finger. I lost my inner strength today and I can come back tomorrow. You don't have to worry about me. I don't need you. Shut up and focus. How can I feel better? If it doesn't work, why is she treating me like this? Could it be that she treats me? I'm moved. I have to go out and collect the treasures. I haven't had time to sell them yet. What are you doing? Um, your forehead is a little dirty. Murong Chong, don't worry. I will definitely rescue you. How can we be offline here if we are so powerful? I just want you to rest for a while before making any plans. Although your injury is under control now, it will be more dangerous if we stay here for a while. We still need to go out quickly to treat the wound. Murong Chong, do you dare to talk to me? Let's take a gamble, don't worry. Even if you die, it won't be boring if I accompany you on the road to hell. I don't want to go to hell with you, but I believe it doesn't matter if you fail. I still have one here. I'll take this from you. It's awesome, why don't I come, no problem, I can do it, you believe me, you give me, I'll do it, don't worry, let's go Zhuwan Ah Chong Zhu Wanchong brother, Zhu Wan Zhu Wanchong cousin Ah Chong Zhu Wan Zhu Wan Zhu Wanchong brother Zhu Wan , Brother Chong, Chong Cousin Zhu Wan Zhu Wan Zhu Wan Chong Cousin Zhu Wan Zhu Wan, are you ready? Then I'll throw it away. Look at Murong Chong, look at you. Your hand is injured. I'll bandage it for you. What should I do? , hurry up, protect your wife, madam, brother, you are finally here, the second young master is really clever and clever in planning to get away with your husband.