Today we're trying some of I think today what we're going to try and do at every place I take you, we're going to do a variety of tacos. We're going to get Definitely want to do beef or steak, chicken, pork, seafood if they got it, any other specialties the I'm going to do my best to explain to you, a person from London, what tacos are like in Los Angeles. And I will probably not but, hey, a day of eating tacos and we're not paying for it? I mean, what more can you ask for? Not much, yeah. I'm very this was maybe the video I Because like you say, Mexican food in the UK, not the best. We do have Mexican people living in the UK and making and selling the food, but it's just not widespread. Especially not compared where you guys seem to have an absolute abundance of Mexican food. Joe: That we do. Today, Been here several times. They're one of my favorite go-to tacos. They specialize in Tijuana tacos, which is mesquite-grilled meat, corn tortilla, dollop of guac. Harry: OK, couple of questions. Mesquite, that's a type of wood, correct? Yes. Nice. So it's kind of like, almost a smoked-meat type of vibe? Joe: I would say so. Mesquite burns really so the meat is expected to be charred and very flavorful. Sure. I can also, like, the sort of al pastor Imagine that's also marinated as well, so you're getting smoky flavors, marinade flavors, various flavors. Yeah. You're a big Pokemon guy? I am a big Pokemon guy, yeah. Today, we are collecting all the tacos. OK, we're going to catch 'em all. Catch them, whatever. Jesus. Tacos and Pokemon. I finally reached you via Pokemon. You really have, yeah. Found a way to connect with the youth. The youth. Oh, my God. All right, I'm starving. Harry: Yeah. Let's eat. Server: How are you doing, guys? Joe: What's up? Server: These right here and we got a variety of two carne asada and two chicken tacos right here. Joe: Hey, thanks so much. All right. What's jumping out at you? Which one do you want to try first? I think just from what caught my eye as we walked in, the adobada, the sort of al pastor one. Joe: Yep, loaded with delicious meat. You can see they also put cilantro, onion, and guacamole on there. This looks incredible. You Harry: Really does. I'm Joe: Let's go. Mm. Joe: Dude, we're eating good today. Harry: Mm-hmm. Harry: That meat is incredible. Joe: Mm-hmm. I mean, I'm a big corn-tortilla guy, but the meat, you can taste and I'm sure they have that they're not going to share with us on how they flavor that meat, but whatever they're doing, That thing is just They scrape it off to order. Harry: Yeah, the seasoning When you cook something and the outside bits little caramelized. Really good. But super tender as well. The corn tortillas actually Oh, really? Oh, no! Another, what the heck's A lot of times if you order a tortilla or you see tortillas on they'll just be flour tortillas. Do you guys even have corn in the UK? Harry: We do have corn, yeah. I don't think we produce it on a mass scale like America does, because you guys put corn in everything. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Harry: But corn tortillas particularly, I know you have to do to kind of get the corn I don't think many people Joe: I have no idea how I just eat them. Moving I also love the presentation here. This is almost like a flower. It's like, look at this little, Right? Loaded with their special guac. Harry: I don't want a bunch of flowers. I want a bunch of tacos, please. Joe: Yeah, dude. I mean, Harry: This so good. Pick this one up. Joe: Next thing we're also cooked on a mesquite grill. A lot of the best places will just have so many different salsas available. They're homemade salsas, and it's almost like you whatever other flavors I'm kind of just freestyling it here. I think the green one's going Harry: Hit me with a little bit of green. I can't be trusted with my own salsa. Joe: Yeah, no kidding. All right, let's get in here. Harry: All right, man. So this is the beef, the carne asada. Mm. You're tasting that, right? Harry: Yeah. Joe: How flavorful is that meat? Oh, wow. So good. That green salsa, tangy. I think I'm getting from the carne asada. Yeah. I think that is directly Harry: That makes way more sense. Like, mainlining that Beautiful. Very well Joe: I gotta say, I think people have gotten used to mediocre guac. Guac hit the mainstream It was, like, nowhere, and But the store-bought guac, &quot;Yeah, it's fine.&quot; I think everyone kind Go to Chipotle, they charge extra for it, and it's perfectly fine. And you come into a place like here, this guac is next level. Harry: You realize what guac can be when you eat it at a place like this. Something that I know you over in the UK are very familiar with: chicken. Harry: Yes. You got your chicken shops, right? Are you guys not familiar with chicken? Joe: Yeah, I guess we got We're moving on -- Harry: We do have our chicken Joe: To the chicken None of our chicken shops Joe: Unbelievable. I don't know how you I mean, they would make I do think they would clean up in London. They open one of these in London, they'll put this taco Replace the king with these tacos. That's how good they are. It's that smoke again Joe: There is a significant flavor to their taco specifically. You can see why this is one of the most popular places in LA now. And then they got, like, Harry: Yeah, man. Joe: They're just growing A few things that are They're quite simple tacos. It's kind of just, like, You've got the corn tortilla, cilantro, the guac, and the You're going to notice that today, that your tacos is going to be the protein or the meat and, like, maybe one vegetable, and maybe a sauce. Sure. The Taco Bell-ization of Mexican food, like, &quot;Oh, so I'm going and diced onions and and dah dah dah dah dah.&quot; I'd be surprised if we saw Yeah. I don't think it needs I think with maybe, you know, a fast food, like a Taco Bell, Chipotle, they need that to kind of bulk it out that's not coming from and from the meat. But despite how, like, on the face of it, quite simple all these tacos are, all just really delicious, to be honest. Yeah, these are excellent, man. I mean, if this is the we're starting high. Joe: Yeah, we're starting very high. You've gone in. Joe: Yeah, I know. I right at the bat and be like, this ain't your queen's tacos. No, how about this? This ain't your barrister's tacos. Just coming in with your Why do they wear those wigs? Harry: I don't know. It's really silly. Yeah. It looks like it itches. Yeah, it really does. Well, That can't be good for you. Was it, like, is it supposed Maybe. Back in the day, yeah. Because the whole thing with Parliament is, like, you're going to your elected officials. But that guy's still going so he's like, &quot;Well, we'll all wear wigs.&quot; The guy you just sent to jail, And then you're at the pub having a beer next to his family, they're crying. He's like, &quot;What happened? Whoa!&quot; Sip. Harry: &quot;Oops!&quot; That's what I think. You've set a bar very high here, Joe. Joe: That's right. But I need to take you to a bunch of other taco places. OK, yeah. I haven't saved as much room as maybe I should have, because I think you're going to find room. Harry: I'll bravely soldier on. Joe: Ready to go? Harry: All right, yeah. Let's go. Joe: Let's go. Now, LA obviously has maybe thousands upon We can't do all of them, but one truck experience I is here, Mariscos Jalisco. Dude, the tacos de camaron Won all the awards. They had celebrities like Chrissy Teigen hired the truck to come to her crib. LeBron James had these guys during the Getty fire a couple years ago. I could talk all day, and I about how amazing these tacos are. But I wanted to stop busy and noisy street to are the best tacos in Los Angeles. OK. I feel like the taco truck is kind of an integral part of LA cuisine. Joe: Absolutely. Harry: I know we're by but I think that's part of the experience. So hopefully they can forgive us the background noise while This place is standing out from the other places It's all seafood, but this Wanted to include it. You're Harry: I love seafood. how this compares to, I guess, like your pork, your beef, chicken. Joe: Sure. Harry: I'm sure they're doing and I can't wait to try. I've had a couple of fish Joe: Oh, my God. Mexican spots, which I -- I've had your fish, and I've Just fish and chips with, I think we're about to witness a religious experience in real time. OK, I'm excited. So let's grab a couple of these tacos. They're going to blow your mind, dude. You're going to love this. Come on. Here you go. Cheers, my man. Cheers, man. So, Jarritos? OK. Ooh, that's good. Not too familiar with the guava flavors? No, not really. Or Jarritos in general. I've seen a lot of these around in LA but not tried one yet. Yeah, very much. You'll every Mexican restaurant or truck in LA, possibly even the country. You know what they do They have a Monster With a meal? I don't know. I mean, you're a Red Bull guy, but would you not do it with a meal? I don't, unless I'm mixing it Sure. Extremely normal. Joe: This was voted the and it also has the Bib My guy Raul has been and this place is so popular. You probably saw some Also Mariscos-related trucks. Some names a little close to his. Not going to say any names, but if you go down there, there's a few times Wait, that's actually not it.&quot; So some people are trying to, you know, ride on my man's coattails. Yeah, we're driving past, You're like, eh, no, no, no, no, no. Joe: Famous Original Mariscos Jalisco's. He's pretty tightlipped about the recipes and what's in there, right? We're going to get some shots in there, but there's some parts of the process he won't let anyone see, and he knows. He knows this is a gold mine. Harry: Yeah. Got to Locked up in a vault somewhere, like the Krabby Patty formula. Joe: Is this us? All Harry: All right, man, sweet. Joe: Thanks, buddy. Oh, my God. Yes. Harry: Let's go. Off the bat, you got Harry: No, I don't think Joe: Yeah, right? Harry: Have they fried this? Joe: Yes. And it's kind of all intact, like staying together in one piece. Joe: That's right. And he You can see bits of and a little bit of avocado. Harry: Yeah, it's packed Do you want to try it? I really, really want to try this, yeah. Let's give it a go. Joe: I'm about to kill this whole thing. This is so good. Harry: Mm. I love how crispy the Joe: Yep. But the and incredibly juicy. Harry: I think I was kind to just be the shrimp. Joe: Nope. Harry: There's a lot Joe: A lot more going on there, right? Harry: Big mixture. Joe: People have said that you can't get any other Harry: I can kind of see it, man. There aren't many mouthfuls that have lived up to this Joe: Right. You get the sweetness from I think it needs the lime. I love something about, like, fish and -- Joe: And lime, yeah. Harry: Citrus really does it for me. Joe: Yeah. With other or shrimp tacos that I've had, you kind of know what you're going to get, and you get what you expect. But there's just something about this specific truck and that I just haven't gotten and we're not going to get it anywhere else today, certainly. Now, that isn't a criticism to any other place we're going to today or any of the tacos I've What I do want to emphasize is that this is one of the most unique tacos you're probably getting in Los Angeles, possibly all of Southern California. He's been here for 20 years, and, let's be honest, very nice residential neighborhood, but certainly not a place where people are going to eat And these tacos are so good that he's almost created based around everyone It's a truck. He could Harry: Yeah. If you He's the Field of Dreams of tacos. Yeah, he's built something He's got an enormous seating area inside, which, I was like, oh it's a truck. You're going to grab a taco, you're going to stand on the sidewalk. If you want to, you can go and sit down. And clearly, the fact that they have that, there must be demand for it. Yeah. He does have, I So he is in other locations. But, I mean, he's holding it down. The awards speak for themselves. Harry: Yeah, really do. That is such a good mouthful of food. Joe: Nice, nice. Glad you like it. There's not much more to say. Man, I want to kill this other one, but I know the crew have their eye on it, so we'll leave that one for you guys. OK, here we go. There you go, enjoy. On to the next spot! Let's do it. Harry: Let's go. I didn't have anything that when I was in London for Mexican food. Some nice tries. Not going to name any places It's hard to run a business, But everything I felt, I was like, yeah this seems like people are guessing what they So they're like, ah, you know. Yeah, there are definitely Like, there are actual Mexican you might be shocked to hear, who are making and selling their food. So there are some places that can do it. We have a chain of Mexican I definitely think it was one of those. Harry: We're spelling We're not spelling it like Joe: How do you spell it? We spell it W-A-H-A-C-A. No! Oh, my God. Harry: Literally like &quot;Wahaca.&quot; Joe: That's so -- but because everyone would've been like, &quot;What's Oax?&quot; Harry: Yeah. &quot;Oh-ax.&quot; &quot;Oh-ax.&quot; Yeah, I get it. Oh, my God. That's so rude. Now we're at Sonoratown, They also have the mesquite-style grill. So they're going to be char-grilling all the meats we're having here today. One thing I think is really special about this place is the owner, to get a certain type of Sonoran flour you can't get in the US, which they bring back and So you're going to get a tortilla here that you cannot get Harry: That's pretty cool. Also depicted in the mural, Joe: Yeah, that's right! There she is. Yeah. I mean, that is the you're going to be getting I like that. Joe: So, we're going to be and a pork, but mixing it up a little bit. The beef is actually beef head. Ooh. And the pork is their chorizo. OK. Beef head, you say? Joe: Yeah, yep. Using all parts of the animal. I like it. Nothing goes to waste. We had pig's head in London, Sunday roast. Joe: Which was fantastic. Joe: Yeah. That was very good. There's some good meat up Gotta look at the meat upstairs. All sounds really good. I'm excited. Putting a slightly on some of the classics. The meat options, tacos themselves. Excited to see if we can And I loved that mesquite so I want more of that, please. Joe: Yeah, this place is awesome. Yeah, here we go. Harry: Thank you. Thank you so very much. Harry: Beautiful. Thank you. Joe: Delicious Sonoratown the shape of these in some Some people think that is derived from the Spanish word for plug because Mexican silver miners used to use plugs when mining, which was gunpowder wrapped in paper. Oh, OK. Makes sense. Might be a coincidence, Used to be a gunpowder explosion. Now it's a flavor explosion. Those who dispute that claim say that the word actually has Indigenous origins from the word, I believe it's pronounced &quot;tlahco,&quot; which means &quot;in the middle.&quot; Sure. Either way, as far back as the Aztecs, they had some sort of tortilla or bread, some sort of meat and And that's how they ate Harry: OK, it's a mouthful of history. I can't help but noticing, Joe, that against my better judgment, you seem to have ordered the tripe tacos. Yeah, I think you're going to like it. If you don't want it, that's fine. So, we got chicken, we got chorizo, and we got the beef head. They've added the salsa, But also what looks to be a Yep. Joe: Also the small palm size. That's one thing I think that a lot of people are surprised is like, yeah, the tacos are small because that's why you eat a lot of them. I like that. I don't want I'd rather have lots of Another traditional way and they're made with lard. Harry: Ooh, OK. Squeezing extra fat into All fat everything with Fat is flavor. Where do you want to start? Joe: Why don't we start OK. Joe: Oh, yes. Now, this one, I mean, you can of the salsa down there, but they got -- Harry: Got, like, a salsa verde going on. Joe: Yeah, very verde. All right, and this beef looks good. It's thick pieces, right? Chunky. Joe: Ready to go? I'm born ready. Joe: Let's go. Mm. How soft and tender is that meat? How delicious is that? It's a surprisingly fatty cut of meat. Because that just melts in the mouth. Joe: It's so soft. It's pillowy soft. Mm. Mm! Can't say enough about They're so delicious. Unique flavor you're not Harry: No, definitely not. Gone. Harry: I feel like, the flour tortilla, you get a bit more tear to it when you bite into it. Joe: Could do some damage at this place if we weren't filming this video. I could just literally just post up here and be eating these all day. I can't get over how Joe: That's fantastic. Do you want to try a little chorizo next? Yeah, we'll save the tripe Oh, baby. Harry: Looking very good, yeah. Look how crispy these little Joe: Get in there, buddy. Little chorizo nuggets. Joe: Take a bite? Juice just pouring off that, man. Mm! Joe: Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. So fantastic, right? Just locks in the flavor, how they're cooking it over there. That's that mesquite Definitely getting the And to some extent from the beef as well. I think the guac here slightly too liquidy for my taste. Joe: OK. It might just be a but that's a very saucy guac. Yeah, you like it thick and goopy, huh? Oh, yeah. I want chunks Joe: Oh, come on. Eh, whatever, I'm just going off -- Harry: Do you disagree? flavor, and I think that I find personally a lot because it has those it doesn't have as much flavor as when it's more like a sauce. Harry: Interesting. Harry: To each their own. Joe: All right. Chicken? Harry: Absolutely. Harry: I'm really loving these tortillas. The texture that you get from the flour rather than Little bit more chew to them. Oh, look at the juice just dripping, man. Well, you're not getting I'm not, no. Joe: Oh, these are so good. Harry: That mesquite Yeah. Those pieces of chicken Joe: Oh, wow, yeah. If I can get one. Like that right there. Joe: Right? That's ridiculous, Harry: That's char, that's Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Harry: So juicy as well. I'm telling you, man. over here in Sonoratown. Nothing but hits. So, no way you want to try I'm going to try the tripe taco. Yeah. See, it's all about new experiences. Harry: I'm going to get this it's got the hole in it. You Joe: Just try that. Just try it. Focus on the flavor, not where it's from. Crunchy. What do you think of that? That is really good. I'll try a full mouthful. Yeah, I'm excited. Oh, I feel like you, when you're thinking, like, I was thinking slimy and chewy, and it's neither of those things. Harry: Mm-hmm. That is so good. I didn't expect to be brought around on tripe in this episode, but here we are. Can you please hand me some more napkins? Yes, I can. Here, just take the box. Joe: Thank you. It's almost more of, like, That's kind of what I get with the crunch. Joe: That's a great way Just like a crispy pork scratching. It's a savory nugget. Really good. Paired with their spicier sauce -- that was the spiciest one we've had right? Harry: I think it was. definitely had a bit more kick to them. Joe: Got the tripe on a whim. That's a heavy hitter Maybe that and the chicken may actually be my favorite of the four we tried. Joe: Really? Really? I did also like the beef but those two had such a, I Really got the char and Love that a lot. And that one's just unlike So for me, that kind of stands out. In terms of the assembly of the tacos, there's a slightly different approach depending on which taco you get here. Whereas I feel like at other places, maybe the toppings are regardless of the meat, and that's the only thing that changes. But, like, obviously we have guac on some of these and not others, bit more spicy salsa on It really kind of does to each dish, which is quite impressive. It's interesting as well because, like, the chicken one here, Maybe, I think, the might be my favorite one at Tacos 1986. So different places kind of putting their own unique spin on can really change quite Bring one thing to the forefront, whereas actually at another place it might be more of a supporting cast. Joe: Hm! That's a good way of putting it. And another thing I should note is that another thing on their menu that everyone raves The burrito here is in everyone's top-burrito list. So if we do a burritos episode, Yeah, I can absolutely see especially with these tortillas. The way that they're that special Mexican imported flour, definitely got a lot more flavor to them than your average flour tortilla, and also hold up really well against all the ingredients that are in there. Because there's a lot but they're not falling apart. You know, people eat like You realize that? Harry: Yeah. Harry: You're living good. Harry: That's why you put up with the terrible infrastructure. That's fine. I don't eat infrastructure. Harry: Sure. Joe: We're here at Bee Taqueria, and I want to direct your to what's becoming the A man made of tires known You know why he's here? Harry: I do not know. Because this is Michelin Bib Gourmand. Harry: Of course. Rated? Awarded? Bib Gourmand. Where does Bib Gourmand sit? It's kind of beneath a star, right? It is the award they we'll say, reasonable prices. OK. I like both those things. Yeah, yeah, very nice. Yeah. Other than, of course, the Like, what are they doing really well? Joe: This place, they have elevated tacos. As you can see, he has all types of unique takes on tacos here. But don't let that dissuade you. The food here is ridiculously good. Harry: OK. I feel like have been more on the I'm interested to see where Joe: Well, that's why I took you here, because this guy is doing Harry: So, what are we going to get here? Obviously at the other a chicken, a beef and a pork. Similar sort of situation here? Joe: Absolutely, absolutely. we definitely get the beef. But instead of chicken, I want to get their tinga Harry: Oh, OK. And just for reference, you guys call beetroot beets? Joe: Yeah. OK. We call it beetroot. Don't know why. Beet, beetroot. Harry: Yes. Yeah, that's weird. Why do you do that? I don't know. We always All right. But that's what we're getting. Sure, OK. I'm intrigued Joe: Carne asada obviously is at pretty much [every] taco Now, people don't know in Mexico until Christopher to the Caribbean when Now, despite there even a Spanish sailor famously over from the Dominican And soon after, conquistadors that's a V, to lift the restriction, so the Mexican cattle Did you know now there's That's one cow for every 15 people. Whatever those farmers Mexico is the 10th-largest Eighty percent of that beef, OK, right. I like the They get to the border, the guy's like, &quot;What's that?&quot; &quot;Oh, it's a horse.&quot; Oh you imagine that? I imagine that it was two cows in a giant trench coach and these, wait, how many Six cows one bull, I think you said. OK, so it was three tall cow women and a horse that was a lot like a bull. In enormous trench coats. &quot;That's a really wide giraffe.&quot; Yeah. The man on the &quot;Where's all those giraffes There's, like, a million cows. There was one giraffe! I don't know what I'm doing wrong.&quot; Anyway, that's how it started off. Just a taste of all the factoids you're going to be getting this season. Harry: Educational show. We love it. We have two beet tacos right now. Joe: Thank you, sir. Joe: This looks ridiculously good. Harry: Yes, it does. OK, so this is going to Dripping with juices. Also maybe the biggest Yeah, this visually just to anything else we've tried already. Served in a bowl, which is ... Joe: Yeah, you can see why, right? Harry: Different. Dripping Keep that away from your pants. OK, Dad. Jesus. Harry: But it's also the with cheese on it. Like, Almost kind of got the texture of a pulled mozzarella or something. Lot of cress on there, cilantro again. Joe: Yeah, we're seeing seen at all today. Harry: Yeah, you weren't this is kind of a slightly Joe: Yeah, my man, he knows what's up. Mm-hmm. Should we give it a go? Joe: Yeah. Harry: I'm intrigued. Beety juices. Joe: Oh, wow. And if I didn't look at it, I could swear that was chicken. I love that cheese. It's Got some spice going on there. Very unique, very interesting. You still get that earthy beet taste. Yeah. All right, everything Harry: Here we go. Server: Tacos. Harry: Man, thank you. Joe: Incredible. Thank you And normally when you hear But the way this is so like you would get with shredded chicken, yeah, it's a fantastic, fantastic flavor. Yeah. There's a kind which is excellent. Got a Not knocking my socks off. Generous with the cilantro, coriander, over here as Which one should we move to next? This one's right in front of Harry: Yeah. So this is the pork. Again, generous with the cilantro. Got some sliced red onion, and first blue-corn tacos we've had. Joe: The first, but not the last. Harry: Not the last. Joe: We're getting them at next spot. Harry: You a blue-corn fan? Joe: Love it. This is hefty, man. Joe: Speaking of staining your clothes. There you go, my guy. Harry: That's serious, man. That pork is so juicy and tender. Joe: It's so tender, yeah. Harry: Just want to note that a little piece of this pork in my hand and just kind of gently squeeze, That's so good. Joe: The softness and but with the crunchy onions, red onion, and the cilantro, coriander, and yeah, these tortillas, Harry: Really good. Also They just get style points, I think, for doing it a bit differently. Joe: I'm looking forward to Harry: Again, man, look every time you bite into something, juice just pours out on you. Joe: Wow. Man. I think this might be the Harry: I think I'm inclined to agree. What is it about lime with Mexican food? Just brightens up the flavors, right? Harry: Just pairs so well, That's so good. Joe: I don't think I've ever This is really fantastic. Harry: I do love this beef. Like, the thickness of these pieces, so juicy on the inside, really absorbs all of that seasoning and the marinade that Now, contrasting that with that's pillowy and literally Harry: I feel like the pork, let the meat sing a little which is really tasty and super tender. It's not just like they're They're doing different things with different meats, which I like. Doing great things without meat as well, which is also cool. I'm really going to have some I don't even know where I'm Joe: This is so good. A lot of places out here, like are kind of totally making it their own. Yeah, I feel like between this place and a few of the other really getting a kind of overview of what tacos have been, what tacos can be. And it's leaving me with a Well, there's one more that is absolutely incredible. Harry: OK, I think I can do one more spot. Joe: All right, let's go. So, what is some fun LA stuff you got to do while you were here? Did the Warner Bros. studio Yeah, it's just cool to walk where young Sheldon has walked, you know. Just to be in the same Joe: That's so funny. So you got to go to the Harry: We did. That's a spinoff of &quot;The Big Bang Theory&quot;? Harry: Correct, yeah. No, that ended, then they I think that's also now coming to an end because they've somehow got, like, seven seasons out of it. So he's a young version in &quot;The Big Bang Theory.&quot; Harry: Yes. Sheldon. Last stop of the day, Villa's I'm feeling good. I've still Or four more. We're definitely going to I wanted to take you here to Villa's Tacos out in Highland Park. Some say these might be and I might agree with them. Of course we're going the chicken, and the beef. They also have a cactus And one of the things that that we did a video about Villa's Tacos I think three or four years ago. My man started this It's not too far from here. When we did the video it so he moved the operation to And since then, he has opened with a second location in downtown LA, so, it's Come a long way from his grandma's lawn. And there's a reason for that because the tacos are incredible, and I want you to try them. Harry: Yeah, I can do one I think. That's fine. Joe: Let's go. So, when I said I have I didn't know you were going Joe: I didn't, actually. but I definitely got a good sampling. Something that I decided the queso tacos, which means, they do have the blue-corn tortilla, also put a layer of melted And we also got these drinks, which I am having the I was going to say I love these because it feels like I'm in &quot;The Bear.&quot; They drink out of these in &quot;The Bear.&quot; Feels great. Cheers, cousin. Joe: All right. Yes, chef. First thoughts on this. The cheese jumps out at me. You say they've got a bit These things are fully covered Joe: Yes, sir. Harry: I assume they've because these are all crispy as well. These have lacy, cheesy edges. Joe: And of course the guac, and of course sprinkled a Also want to point out, and this could be your own discretion, they have a bunch of salsas here that I think all are fantastic. You'd mentioned at the last place not seeing a lot of blue-corn tortilla. Well you're seeing them now, baby. Got that blue. The blue It definitely has more protein. Harry: So in my mind, while we are adding unhealthiness with the cheese, we're gaining huge benefits there. Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah. This is like, you do this before you go lift weights. Harry: All right, cheers, man. Joe: We've been eating tacos all day. Oh, yeah. And this one is hitting the spot. It's so good. Harry: I think in terms of the this one has the most rich color to it. And also the color is throughout the entire piece of meat, right? Sometimes when you marinate you just get some color on the outside. Trust me. Harry: Whereas this is just like, all the way through this thing is a glorious red, flavorful color. Joe: Fantastic, right? I believe it's cotija cheese on there. Harry: Cool. Nice. Because there wasn't enough Let us not forget about our Harry: I want to again point because that chicken is Joe: A lot of the places we've gone today, the chicken has been cut up into cubes. This one's more of a shredded chicken. I think that with that and it just has a better I feel that, flavor-wise, unstoppable. And with this green salsa, by the way, try some of these salsas, man. Don't let these just sit. Harry: I'm trying to enjoy it as is. I think I agree with the A lot of the time, the has been, say, larger because theoretically that way But this is still super juicy, and also you get these little crispy bits kind of around the edge Joe: Chorizo. This along with the cactus is my go-to when I come here. Harry: Really? And of course, I like Now, I'm not going to force you to try it, but I'm telling you it's fantastic. Harry: We had chorizo at to see how this kind of Joe: That's vibrant colors here, right? Harry: Yeah, that's crazy. Joe: Gotta throw a little We're eating rainbows today. Hit me with a little Joe: Oh, nice. I can handle it, I Oh, God, that's a lot. Joe: I think this is the best chorizo we're going to have all day. Oh, the habanero! I got a big dollop of the habanero sauce. Got some heat to it. Joe: Yeah. My man knows his sauces, and he knows his habanero. I know we've kind of been saying this throughout the episode, but being able to have the spice, sweetness, tang, all in one just little bite-sized parcel, that's such a good concept, man. I've never eaten cactus before. Joe: Oh, no? We don't really have those in the UK, at least not in the wild. What kind of taste can I expect from it? Joe: It's going to be an earthier green. Not as hard or harsh as a pepper, but I really can't say. It All right. Try and wrestle one of these. So, is the cactus this Joe: Yeah, it's the diced green. This also has black beans. Earthier pepper, but Yeah, I don't know how to to someone who's never eaten it before. You know, it tastes like I'm trying to think, like, is And nothing's really springing to mind. Joe: Yeah. I think, like you say, a chili pepper and an onion of some kind. But it's good. I like it. I still don't know if I would opt for that. Harry: That's a word. I still don't know if I'd opt for that over some of the meat but, hey, not bad. First time I've eaten a cactus in my life. Glad they removed the spines because that would be Joe: That'd be a lot I feel like the flavors and is uniquely his own and uniquely LA. Harry: Yeah. I love coming here. It always hits. Yeah, I've really enjoyed this one. I think, like you say, putting like the cheese skirts on the tacos, very nice touch. Adds a lot to the dish. I think the marinade of the meats, I think for me particularly and also the chicken, that's been sitting in a marinade for. The amount of flavor that it's infused and the flavor itself Have to say, really like this spot. Joe: This place has appeared in a Netflix documentary I mean, it's just like, I mean, they really are and you can see why. This stuff, these tacos are incredible. Not to speak on your behalf, but is it kind of a true Joe: Yeah, I think so. start doing something he loves Next thing you know, he's got storefronts, serving to the masses. Joe: Merch that you purchased. Joe: Yeah. That's a cool hoodie. Harry: The hoodie's cool. Keep an eye out for that in All right, so, as a trying LA tacos, how did we do today? You did great. I think you've I've not had a bad taco today. They've all been fantastic, and I think we've also covered a bit of a range of what tacos can be. Yeah, fantastic. I mean, as I said before, there was no way that we could have gone to every great spot. There's no way I could have given you of everything that LA has So did my best to pick five spots I think are really fantastic. Yeah, I think you did it. Joe: Damn. I'm glad to hear that. Tacos 1986. One thing that really jumped out at you. Harry: Carne asada there Really enjoyed that one. I liked some of their salsas as well. The chicken was super good. Also just big personalities, you know? Joe: Yeah, love those guys. Mariscos Jalisco? Obviously kind of the that we hit today. But was kind of unlike any bite And we haven't really that's been exactly that style. So that for me was pretty unique. And again, hard to compare that we've had today. Joe: Sonoratown? Sonoratown was great. I really with the flour, with the tortillas. Changing it up a little We had pretty much exclusively the texture that you get The kind of tear, a little Really satisfying. Toppings And you could just tell how much care and thought had gone into preparing those. Joe: Absolutely. What about Bee Taqueria? Harry: Bee Taqueria was I think the steak stood out for me there. Again, those thick, juicy, well-marinated pieces of And I like, again, that to be a little bit more out there with what they were going Joe: Villa's Tacos. Probably in a more in terms of doing their own thing, like taking a classic dish, putting a slightly new spin in it. Cheese crust is amazing, really tasty. The marinade on the beef, again, and the chicken, sensational. Joe: With that, I have to ask, if you had to pick one which one would you pick? I actually think I'm going to slightly cop out and not pick a favorite. And why is that? Harry: I think all the have been fantastic, all I know we've had some themes throughout, so like we've had some pork dishes, we've had some beef, But almost all of them have been done in a very unique and different way. I think it would be doing a disservice to pick one that I really like. Honestly, I think if wanted to come to LA, have a good taco, any of these spots, you're not To give one of them my I think is impossible. OK. I share your sentiments that every place here we It is a hard choice, but I've and for me, Villa's Tacos all the way. I absolutely love the food here. I mean, the other places but this is my No. 1. Harry: Yeah. Overall I'm just a big fan of tacos, taquerias, LA taco culture. If you want to bring some then please. any one of these establishments if they just did remotely what the game is theirs. Yeah. Wahaca is quaking