Think about hackers. The term probably brings to mind probably in a basement, They're exploiting vulnerabilities, stealing our information, and costing In fact, cybercrime costs the world year. But the past decade has seen a an ethical hacker, or These men and women want to use legal market for their There's this creativity, there's this curiosity almost mischief in how you think. But then that's coupled with a framework to actually use These hackers help companies protect before the criminal hackers do. When an ethical hacker finds a bug, exchange for cash or other rewards, in program. So we're like We come to your house, we look for ways in, we tell you. We don't break in, we tell you Companies like HackerOne, Bugcrowd and Synack freelance hackers with corporations that This has led to the creation cybersecurity experts, a.k.a. hackers, who are integral to the from tech to finance We work with MasterCard, we work space, we work with Cisco technology space, you know These days, hackers can make a lot companies like these. The payout for finding a single, of thousands of dollars, and some overall. I know Verizon Digital Media dollars in bounties paid. Uber has paid out Hacking for good is gaining traction So it may be time for the public hacker really means. Ever since computers have existed, people them. Back when these machines were universities and large corporations, hackers tinkerers, technology enthusiasts who existing computer programs. They made improvements that helped But with the emergence of the became much more common. From the comfort of their how to break into and manipulate spread viruses. I broke into mostly websites military agencies and I changed them. A lot Like a lot of A lot of people got And that's really the history of season that we're in now. Ended up getting arrested several times that. And they sent me to prison for Three separate occasions. Ellis began hacking in the 1990s, By then, the hacker stereotype was media like the popular 1983 movie disaffected but intelligent teen accidentally military supercomputer nearly starting Even though the young protagonist wasn't whizzes could gain access to systems After Ronald Reagan watched the film, bills resulting in the Computer Fraud anyone from intentionally accessing And it hasn't really So it is legal in the sense that point they have safe harbor. But outside of that, Because the law doesn't really define exactly clear how it relates to increasingly outsourced. Security used to be It's very secretive, it's not And we're seeing a shift towards collaborative and enlisting For a company, enlisting this outside bounty program, in which corporations pay vulnerabilities in their software. What's believed to be the first of a Silicon Valley startup called Hunter Beetle to anyone who identified a Over a decade later, in 1995, financial incentives for finding flaws Navigator. The idea took a while to security companies iDefense and TippingPoint, Foundation, offered similar programs. Other tech giants eventually followed suit, giving startups like Bugcrowd, HackerOne and hackers with companies offering When starting one of these programs, of vulnerabilities they want to be notified hackers can test, and what They also determine how much Then the bug bounty platforms vulnerabilities, coordinate payouts to hackers to ensure that bugs are properly fixed, company's in-house security team. On average, you get about a thousand bounty we've paid is $100 thousand Companies pay a fee to use bug the hackers themselves, these sites are You fill out your Twitter your GitHub I.D., you know, that's really the starting point connect you with the Every time when you file a vulnerability scored by how good it was And then you are collecting points, And then we can see in all these special skills are, and that's how we job. For hackers who were previously you could now make good money this first. I was introduced to bug bounties participate because it still seemed like it Because if I get in trouble for prison. And I wasn't willing to take new. Eventually though, hackers like for real, and their networks We have half a million Half of them are 24 years or younger. Some of them are as They can be all over the world. They have endless curiosity. They like to outsmart systems. And they figure out how to break Today, over 1,400 organizations use HackerOne Even though many of these organizations teams, the complexity of software they'll still have some weak spots. I don't think there's ever been a that has had just zero vulnerabilities in There's always something, because And in recent years, these mistakes disasters. Equifax paid a $700 million its 2017 data breach. And in 2019, Yahoo! agreed to pay an $117.5 million dollar settlement for a series information of up to If you have a data breach, the average and many have had breaches that have We help averting the breaches by And the price you pay for that is a a breach. Research and advisory cybersecurity spending would reach Overall, the high cost of has spurred a wide range of Department of Defense to Goldman Sachs the past five years. Probably the turning point in adoption for Department of Defense launched the Hack now very much a part of. So there you have the world's weapons in the world, unlimited budgets, truly secure, they need And we've found already over Department of Defense. That's like the greatest part of it, is government and military, and not worry that kicked in by a SWAT team anymore. Because that's happened four These days, rather than getting made him wealthier than In total, he's netted well over $1 ethical hacking career. I'm at $840 thousand dollars If you add in the other platforms, for the year. Only a select But their backgrounds provide an network. We have six hackers today who the first one to get to a million Aires. So no university education, no background world. Just endless curiosity, a good and hard work. And CNBC got Lopez on the phone At the beginning, when I started hacking, to make a million. It So it was a very good surprise. But despite the incentives for hackers majority of companies still Actually, most don't even offer program, which would allow hackers to punishment. A vulnerability disclosure program bug bounty program. You're still allowed to as you report it to them. The only difference is you don't While this may seem like an easy HackerOne security report revealed that 93 Forbes Global 2000 list don't Without a proper channel HackerOne says nearly 1 in 4 ethical vulnerability that they've found. Luckily, the industry is showing some At the end of 2019, the issued a draft of a mandatory agencies to adopt HackerOne and Bugcrowd hope this means suit. And to ensure that the talent demand, both even offer their own newbies the basics of hacking. The Internet is a pretty, And really what it comes down to attacker is going to do, but you can when they arrive. As for the want people to know that despite what in the world we live in They always see the hacker like the bad We're here to help. We're not just basement who are out We're professionals who work in the companies better.