Hi, I'm Rick Steves, exploring more This time it's quintessential Fairy-tale castles, and fun Like so many travelers, my images of Germany Castles in the Alps, and picturesque churches. I find Bavaria to be and culturally rich We'll immerse ourself in crown jewels, bony relics, great paintings, lush and playful parks. Munich evenings are best Then we'll head for the to see Europe's pop over the to explore a nearly and finish atop Germany's Germany is the and Bavaria is the southern From Munich we venture into to see King Ludwig's take a hike over the border and finally, scale the Munich is considered While packed with history, it's also this country's all rolled into one. This city celebrates its and at the same time, it remains Marienplatz, or Mary's Square, The neo-Gothic new City Hall, is only about It dominates the square. This inviting town square is The glockenspiel performs as the Bavarian royal couple, oversees a joust. Bavaria always wins and Virtually all you see was and rebuilt since. After the war, Germany's destroyed cities They could reconstruct or bulldoze While Frankfurt voted and today it's nicknamed the people of Munich decided Buildings cannot exceed the Today Munich's downtown People come here, rather to do their shopping. Munich's main drag original great Local businesspeople when cars were But now, with passing their display shopkeepers are happy. Imagine this street I'm being joined by my friend George Reichlmayr. So it's &quot;Rykh-lh-my-er.&quot; (Laughing) So, you know, is a very conservative But Munich the capital It's a very One of the ideas of the counsel And that makes downtown Munchen so it's quiet You have green and a good public So leave You can still feel here at the Viktualien Market, for fresh produce While this most expensive would have been overrun Munich keeps the rent low so these old-time shops The Viktualien Market's taps you into great Stalls sell the best wurst, and much more. All six of Munich's breweries At the beer counter, a sign, announces which of the beers Today's beer is Paulaner. Beer gardens like this when breweries stored under courtyards by the shade With the inviting shade and it was only natural and these convivial The twin and of the 500-year-old are the symbol of Munich, but an even more St. Peter's Church Built where the probably settled it has a fine interior and They say Munich than any city Why? Because for over it was the Pope's bastion of Protestantism And favors done earned the city The tomb of Munditia, thought was given to Munich and as a vivid reminder that those who died go directly to heaven without Munich, or Munchen as it's was long the capital Its royal architecture constantly that this was once a political For maximum imperial Bavarian This was the palace who ruled Bavaria Like so many of Munich's it was destroyed and rebuilt since. To meet the duke, all official guests had to lined with 700 years Always trying to substantiate they included as an honorary The paintings are scarred In the final months when allied bombs Nazi leaders gave to slice each portrait and hide them away. The Wittelsbachs to keep up with the Habsburgs, And this long string was basically The exuberant decor and Rococo. And of course, the Wittelsbach made for the palace. With all the mirrors, So, you know, the whole palace and imagine the duke bringing in here with all these some even painted with just That was really a sensation So these were copies Copies of the best paintings. The palace ballroom with ancient The Wittelsbachs, collected and displayed strongly implying a connection The palace treasury of Wittelsbach knickknacks the inspiration for so many Small, mobile altars and still have a focus while on the road. This crucifix, carved This reliquary, shows St. George It sparkles with You can almost hear It was designed to contain The palace also came Today it's the realm rather than kings, Back then, when the king he called Alois Dallmayr. This royal delicatessen for its exotic All the tropical fruits, great wines, and fancy treats Catering to royal tastes and budgets, of Munich's connoisseurs Too many calories? Bikes can be rented quickly Biking makes as much sense as it does in the This city, level and compact feels good on two wheels. In fact, with all these bike you can often get around than you can by taxi. Munich's 200-year-old sprawls over three miles It's the largest urban park On a sunny summer afternoon, enjoy its varied attractions We're here in August Where the stream its swift flow for local surfers. Meandering further along, the stream becomes as laid-back While a local law requires people to wear Munich's parks are sprinkled Students, office workers can enjoy a sunny break This relaxed attitude toward in much of Europe. There are several huge beer On a balmy these are a good stop Traditionally, allow picnickers to bring if they buy a beer. We're eating as Bavarian I've got my fish What do you call It's a &quot;steckerlfisch.&quot; &quot;Steckerlfisch.&quot; &quot;Steckerlfisch,&quot; A nice big pretzel. &quot;Ja, Brezel.&quot; Carefully carved You've got A pork knuckle. Pork knuckle. Yes, that's a big And big beers. And big beers. Munchen. Cheers. Whether you bring your this is a classic &quot;Gemutlich&quot; is a unique word and knack for savoring Munich's many recall the city's cultural As the capital of Bavaria Munich was able to amass And a cluster of museums shows off masterpieces Got 19th century art a wonderful collection of and we're heading for the old The Alte Pinakothek, shows off Bavaria's of European masterpieces from the 14th featuring work Botticelli's shows the early to show spirituality Leonardo's &quot;Madonna was done when the artist well on his way And in this marvelous Raphael is clearly Paintings give a peek as Germany woke and entered a new epoch. In this self-portrait, one of the heralds an Durer brings the humanistic to the medieval north. Recently returned Durer portrays himself, with unprecedented When this individualism met Durer's &quot;Four Apostles&quot; seem when the Reformation swept With the rugged features they take the bible a humanist coup that ignited Looking around they clutch a bible in one prepared to defend In 1517, the German monk broke with the Church in Rome. Suddenly people had to choose. Am I Protestant or Catholic? Albrecht Durer actually He was impressed with his ideas, and became one The Catholic Church responded and also used art The Church hired Rubens St. Michael hurling The lesson: Those who oppose Believers had the entire mass All these heavenly battles mirrored what was After 30 years a third of Germany was dead. Finally, in 1648, an exhausted enabling Protestants Munich has so and we've saved the For traditional nothing beats a good, Munich is Germany's and the Hofbrauhaus It comes complete with rivers boisterous atmosphere, Even if you're not eating While it can be everybody's having Beer comes in huge liter mugs or &quot;eine&quot; pitcher You can order your beer &quot;Dunkles,&quot; that's dark, or Radler, half lemon soda Munich is the home But you can enjoy essentially any time of year right here From Munich, an hour's drive takes us It's a timeless land painted buildings, and characteristic This is a playground for at the foothills And it's a land And the most spectacular, the castles of King Ludwig II aka, &quot;Mad&quot; King Ludwig. He grew up here in the Ludwig then built Neuschwanstein, The castles are hugely only by appointment Tickets are sold at the kiosk To avoid long lines, arrive call in advance Hohenschwangau Castle, looks much like It's the more lived-in and giving a better glimpse This is young And this was his The banquet hall is slathered Germany became a single As if to bolster this young nation dug deep These heroes and legends to build his Richard Wagner to compose and Germans to believe was deeply rooted Politically, the frustrating was to rule, either as a pawn the two dominant Rather than deal romantic Ludwig escaped here to the peace and comfort Ludwig ruled Bavaria until his death in 1886. His best friends like the great composer Wagner, Neuschwanstein Castle Imagine King Ludwig as a boy, dreaming up this ultimate It looks medieval, but it's only about as old Built in the late 1800s, it's a textbook example popular at the time. The castle's interior with misty medieval themes: and scenes Ludwig personified Longing for the natural beauty he built his medieval not for defensive reasons, King Ludwig intended to sit in the company of six historic The religious Ludwig was This room is based on the And the one-ton is the shape Just a few months after he moved Ludwig, who was already planning to build an even more was declared mentally Two days later, People still debate, But nobody complains any longer about the extravagant cost In fact, within six weeks tourists were already and they're still coming. We're staying just in the Austrian district With far less tourism, this area offers great value I sleep in the village at Guesthaus Schluxen. My tour groups the &quot;best-remote-hotel-in-an- Run by gracious Herman, this family-friendly working with plenty of Tyrolean And tastefully From this comfy base, you can or just smell the geraniums A hike up to the stark of Ehrenburg Castle provides a striking contrast Historian Armin Walsh is spearheading a project what he calls an ensemble which will create We have an ensemble four elements built We start here with Ehrenburg. We have a Gothic We have a baroque castle and we have a brand-new of the 18th century. We're visiting two castles the 13th century and, higher on the right, the This is a very because it lies via Claudia Augusta. This is a road which connected and this road was very important because the white gold. Anyone who controlled the though in the middle age, they had to find the perfect A steep hike takes us up to Schlosskopf Castle, have just recently Well, Rick, two years ago, nobody in this town knew, that there was a fortification Two years ago you It was covered So you shaved We shaved it. It was completely So from Reutte you [ Laughter ] Whoa, all right. 13th century castles were built with tiny walls, because of the defense system Then they invented cannons. Cannons made this kind This became clear when, by cover local Tyrolians wheeled and pulverized which was occupied by their From this point on, Ehrenberg-style castles and cannon-proof castles like Schlosskopf was built Now we see the difference in They build here a fortification thick walls, tunnels, everything, a real fortification system Modern warfare. Modern warfare. Meeting Europeans like Armin, and satisfied with their is one of the fundamental We're crossing from Austria to ascend a mountain Bouncing between countries is now easier than ever. With unification of Europe, border crossings are basically and with the euro, in nearly all The Zugspitze, is Germany's A mighty cable car zips us The cable is supported and stretches the last mile with no support at all. While there may be many this one is unique, with a view of over 400 peaks Germany, Austria, The mountain between the German state and the Austrian state And today, to enjoy this high altitude on what feels like The Zugspitze is named which can really howl This hiker's hut And thanks to these it's never been blown By the way, even on a sunny Bring a jacket. The summit is marked carried up here Today, thanks to conveniently it's climbed, either from or from the adjacent by families, seniors, and even travel writers. Whether you're conquering castles, marveling at the treasures or picking up slivers this region, nestled here at This area is another reason Europe just keeps Thanks for joining us. I'm Rick Steves. Until next time, &quot;Auf Wiedersehen.&quot; People of Frankfurt and the city Germany's Manhattan The people of I find it to be Taaah! Yaah!