- So I graduated from Harvard there was pomp, there was circumstance, and honestly, I was just glad And I thought to myself as I was leaving, I worked my butt off for this degree, I did my time, this I've done several Harvard I even documented my And I've given plenty of advice for but should you apply? Is it worth the strife? Now that I'm a few years out, I feel like I can evaluate of going to Harvard? What did I sacrifice, and was it worth it? (upbeat music) Hey, it's your girl Ahsante, helping you move consciously so let's go. Before we get into my thoughts on Harvard, a quick disclaimer. Since I'm evaluating my Harvard I'm going to be critical. I went there on my own volition, it was my choice, and I know and even being able to do that. And I know that graduating to a person's career. So I wanna be clear that I am I'm going to be critical of the Harvard is a huge institution. I went to Harvard college, specifically. Having talked to other I feel like these issues are and across elite colleges in general. Note that this is my personal opinion based on my own experience Some people absolutely My thoughts are more nuanced. And to do justice to that nuance, this video is on the longer side but I have to illustrate what for you to understand where When asking was Harvard worth it, the first cost you probably And I do wanna acknowledge Harvard only does they don't give merit scholarships. They do an assessment of your and then decide how much I don't think they did a great and so it was definitely a If your family doesn't then Harvard will cover the cost entirely. If your family does make a lot of money, then it doesn't matter for If you're in the middle it's expensive. So the financial cost can The more serious costs though The culture at Harvard is tough and it's an extremely like it was a shock to and how high a level And judging from my comments sections, some other people also have no idea. Every now and then I'll get &quot;I got perfect SAT scores, and I got top grades and This is racist.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;Oh, you have no idea how competitive Harvard is. And I guess you also don't realize that black people are capable Harvard's like, &quot;Oh, Great, so do a lot of people. What else you got? Oh, straight A's, hmm, in your hometown. That's the bare minimum here, hun.&quot; Like that's very much It's very much, &quot;Oh, you get high marks, so does everyone else get in line.&quot; I remember visiting campus and I was eating in the majestic just soaking it all in and thinking about how fortunate I was to be with all this elite status. And I asked the girl as a conversation starter, &quot;Did you ever think that And she said, &quot;Well, the valedictorian from my school usually gets in, so.&quot; Like I was shook. First of all, I went to public school and no one in the living had gone to any Ivy League, like in no way, was this normal for me. And second, that was my at the top of their I was salutatorian, number two. Everyone here is the best. That is the new normal, You are not special. And I was completely unprepared for the intensity of the competition. You are constantly judged by both formally and informally. You have to compete to Like you have to submit an application. I wound up majoring in film, and most studio art classes You apply, you interview, and then there's a list And preference for the art classes is given to those who but in order to get into the major you have to have take in an art class. Like it's stressful. And in general, a lot of So not everyone can get top marks and you're competing directly against your peers to get the A. A lot of classes over assigned readings, so there was no way for you so that was stressful. And if you're thinking to yourself, &quot;Well academics might be hard, and activities would be a Many of the extracurricular clubs there were also competitive to get into. Hi, could I write for the magazine? Well, maybe, if you can pass our tests. What are the tests? Jump through four flaming hoops, leap over a pit of our bubbling destain, produce three brilliant Then show up to a mystery Get down on your knees and grovel. That sounds like a lot to potentially not even make it in at the end. Sorry, not everyone can hack it. What can I join the acapella group? That depends they're seven. Do you wanna join the ones that are noble or the ones that are common? Any of them? Hmm, no. Okay, can I join this non audition choir? Well, you can join, but we'll see if you make Maybe if you ask us nicely, Like that's the energy And whatever thing you wanted to try, someone here has been doing it since they were nine years old and they're better than you, so. At the beginning of the clubs would have what was It's several weeks long, You might be invited to an initial social event You do some sort of and then you're invited of testing, interviewing, And eventually they whittle down and decide who they The competition is endless as is the sense that one because it's even more This applies to things you might expect like theater, acapella, It also applies to student It also applies to most social groups. It also applies to service organizations. The one that sticks out in my into a club that teaches Like I wasn't good enough to get into the teaching dance to kids club. And if you follow me on So that wasn't the issue. It's exclusion for the And it can lead to a lot of rejection especially your freshman year when you don't know anyone in these clubs, because knowing people what allows you to get in because everyone is super talented. And this was a big blow for which did not work that way at all. They just let you into clubs and if it was a performance group then talent was usually enough. Like I said, in my video I did a ton of extracurriculars not for my resume, but because I'm a multimedia artist, I'm interested in politics and debate. I'm interested in math and science. When I had an interest for something, I was used At Harvard, the culture This is also the case for finals clubs which have nothing to do with studying. That's the name for a set that are like fraternities and sororities, except they're not national, and they're not authorized they're maintained by alumni. And that includes some clubs that's maintained by alumni which basically acts like a frat house. They're also a primary to access alcohol and as for parties on campus of many students' social lives. You have to be invited by a current member to apply to join a finals Punching a finals club is a lot like pledging a fraternity or sorority, but again, it's an of people getting after various happy hours, gatherings, schmoozing at socials, and the members voting on and ultimately who gets in. And of course there's a hierarchy of which clubs are the most elite. These clubs are exclusionary by design. And if you guessed that these clubs must be incredibly white, then you would have guessed correctly. Just adds another layer of the campus feeling historically hostile towards people of color. That entire campus is and ingroups, and outgroups. Even within the Black community on campus and within spaces it was very cliquey and to all Black students. It's very hard to escape when that's the dominant culture, it's not about the quality that's a given, it's not about how committed it's a constant popularity contest. And I felt like a misfit, like I was a nerd among nerds. Facing constant rejection in and doing your best is It can really mess with You can feel like you're doing terribly within this environment whereas in the grand scheme of things, if you step outside of the Harvard bubble, you're doing fine. If there's anything that I it would be, &quot;Ahsante, you're doing fine. The opinions of these at the end of four years, And even if you are doing well, you can feel like you You never stop comparing and you can easily feel like Like you have less value Like you're not getting enough accolades. Like you're not getting into the really esteemed organizations. And at this point, your And those esteemed organizations They have a lot of power Everything in the vicinity So that becomes your whole life, and if your whole life, your &quot;You're not good enough. You can't sit with us.&quot; Even though you've and now hard work isn't enough, and there's always more work to do. There's an overwhelming The piece sets are unreasonably long, and it seems like everyone than you are and you don't measure up. You're not as valuable. You feel inferior, you feel worthless, ostracized, isolated, alone, terrible, and you start to wonder, what's the point. The mental health services on campus we're not known to be very helpful. Peer counseling was the most visible way to get mental health support on campus. Students trying to help &quot;Don't freak out, don't do it. Just talk to someone, we're here.&quot; And I think if I didn't have a loving, caring home environment with parents that I knew would support me even if I decided I needed to drop out which I strongly considered If I hadn't had that escape hatch, and I thought that this and I had to make it work at Harvard, then I would have been So that was the biggest cost for me, it was the psychological distress, it was the constant rejection a lot of feelings of worthlessness and a lot of things that even years afterwards. And I spent the next five years I spent five years healing and as a person from my achievements, or my level of productivity or I had to unlearn the patterns of hierarchy and competition from others that are deeply and in society, but can make even if you are outwardly successful. And that's why I'm so and self-love and mental I don't wanna make it seem like I had no friends in college or that my experience was There were certain certain professors that The best semester I had was and I studied abroad in that was through a Harvard program. I wouldn't be doing video production today if it weren't for the encouragement And even though I didn't really fit into any established social group, I really leaned on the We were all going through And when you've been through it bonds you, like y'all So I have a couple of who I intend to be friends with for life. There's a big difference between resonating with a few and resonating with the space At the same time going through a competitive where who you knew and just as much as what you did, prepared me well for the Like if I can make it through that level of anxiety and stress then I can make it anywhere. I have a lot of mental fortitude from going through the fire, like what doesn't kill You know what I'm saying? Like we're tough now, okay? (chuckling) All right? I'm and being in such a toxic environment where I never felt like I really belonged, makes me really appreciate where I feel a sense of belonging and being fully appreciated and valued. So the experience at Harvard has given me a lot of valuable perspective, and I might do a whole other video about what I learned from that experience. Like, yeah, they're the classes, but that place really teaches you a whole different set of skills. The best part for me has not at Harvard. Like I said their study the things they run tend They have a lot of resources, there are great alumni connections. The association with Harvard and the connection to who have also been once you get away from Harvard. Once I got out of that culture, the individuals from Harvard have been really nice and supportive, and willing to help particularly I got my first job out of college through an alumni connection. And I have to say that my career like I can't even downplay that. I think that's largely and people skills. I've been very good at my jobs and I've been able to navigate but first you have to get in the door. And I think my ability has been helped by me having that Harvard credential backing me up. The Harvard name might be the reason why you clicked on this video. It's attractive to people. I think the degree engenders, a certain amount of automatic respect and assumed competence. There are studies that show that a resume with a name that sounds gets less calls back than that same resume with a name that someone There is an implicit and against Black women and authority is often But I think when a potential and what I would think if I is that this person is sharp, they're a fast learner, and I should be able to trust So I think that credential that I'll never fully know because it's about effecting of who I am, and there's There's no other place that will get you the universal respect, that Harvard will. When people send me comments saying that they're in high school about attending Harvard part of me thinks, &quot;Oh, having nightmares that bad.&quot; But I know they're not dreaming about their mental health they're dreaming about the and the power that go And those things are very real So because of that and having and some hindsight, I would say that, yes, for me in the end, My 2015 self can rest assured that she has not struggled these The sun is rising. I took a few years to recover mentally, I hung on to the I took the opportunities that came my way and now I'm in a pretty great place. I got plants and everything. If you're new here, I make videos on personal development So if you're into that, And if you already know and love my work and want to help me to continue, then you can support my videos on Patreon. In the comments let me on unlearning seeing your I know that's an ongoing thing for me. And if you currently go to Harvard, then let me know if it's any better. I mean, maybe as always and think creatively, and