This episode of Crash Course is brought to You run us. YOU run us. You RAN us. There are five planets in our solar system if you include the one you're sitting on. orbiting the Sun out in the cold depths of They're a lot alike in many ways, but of Uranus was the first planet to be discovered, times. It took an astronomer with a telescope mapping the skies through his telescope when a disk and not a dot, like a star. He noted to observe it again sometime later, he was It was quickly determined to be a planet, true brown-nosing style, he named it Georgium king George III. Yeah, happily, that name of Roman gods, the new planet was dubbed Uranus. Interesting tidbit: It actually is visible eyesight and very dark skies. It's right funny is that several people had observed movement. Some even catalogued it on their The planet is massive--about 14.5 times the means its interior must be made of lightweight and chemistry of the outer solar system indicate There's a small rocky core, smaller than materials like water, ammonia and methane. in fact, and is dense, hot, and under a lot an ocean than anything else. However, somewhat planetary scientists refer to water, ammonia, ice like we usually think of it here on Earth, To distinguish it from the gas giants Jupiter Speaking of "ice," here's a really weird inside Uranus can break up methane molecules, it actually forms diamonds! These would then hailstones. Except it's dark. But still, even be an ocean of liquid diamonds, where Not that we'll ever see that. When we observe its atmosphere. Besides hydrogen and helium, is really good at absorbing red light, which means the and blue, making the planet look distinctly cyan or But in visible light the planet looks almost like Jupiter, or even the pale ones of Saturn, banding can be seen. There are clouds, but again they're difficult of methane, ammonia, and hydrogen sulfide--that bad. I'd avoid breathing through your noise But then, the atmosphere there is negative 220 In late 2014, a bunch of storms popped up they were easily visible from Earth. The storms ice from lower down in the atmosphere -- and they were bright. The northern hemisphere may be why these storms formed. And that brings us to the weirdest thing about If you were above the Earth's north pole counter-clockwise, west to east. The Sun spins except Venus and Uranus. While Venus is flipped 98deg. That means that in the summer, its axis seasons on Uranus are pretty extreme, by outer No one knows why Uranus is tipped so much. hard, by an impact long ago. If it were a have pushed hard enough on the planet to tip Unfortunately, Uranus is very far away, and 2, in 1986--and even then it was a quick those many mysteries that astronomers are Uranus has a magnetic field, but it's truly the planet's spin axis, and it's way off-center; km from the planet's center. It may be that mantle, or that the core somehow interferes Truthfully, no one really knows why. Uranus has more than two dozen moons; Cool fact: The moons are named after characters Titania, Oberon, and Miranda. Even Puck! Of them all, I think the most interesting it revealed an icy world that looks like it of jumbled terrains all crammed together, possible a giant impact in its past actually back together into this weird mishmash. But the reason I like it so much is a feature in the solar system, 5 to 10 kilometers high. six minutes to fall to the surface! That would Like Jupiter and Saturn, Uranus has a ring in 1997; astronomers were observing Uranus hoping to use this to gather information about through it. But they saw several dips in starlight were from rings around the planet. The rings are made of dark particles, probably 13 rings known, most of them are very faint an impact completely shattering a small moon orbiting And then, finally, we have Neptune, the guardian is an ice giant, like Uranus, and has a lot probably has a rocky core surrounded by a Above that is an atmosphere of hydrogen, helium, But there are differences, too. Neptune is mass, versus just 14.5 for Uranus. Neptune it's a lot denser. Also, while Uranus is to call it "the other blue planet", the a telescope, Neptune's color is quite lovely. methane in its atmosphere, as Uranus does. That may have to do with its active atmosphere. of methane, ammonia, and hydrogen sulfide streaky clouds were seen during the Voyager and for good reason: Sustained wind speeds at over 2000 kph: Faster than the speed of temperatures in the atmosphere reduce friction, Voyager saw a huge storm marring Neptune's Dark Spot. A few years later, when Hubble gone, but others had appeared. They're probably through the upper atmosphere and peer farther Neptune has a magnetic field, and like Uranus, Perhaps that icy mantle is at work, somehow fields in both planets. Neptune has rings, too, but SHOCKER, they're and one broad. They're clumpy, and have more like incomplete arcs. It's possible moonlets near the rings. Speaking of which, Neptune has over a dozen Triton, is by far the largest. At 2700 kilometers the rest of them are really dinky. Triton As we'll learn in a future episode, there's so Triton was probably one of those that got too Most of what we know about Triton came from about 40% of the surface was seen. But this The surface is covered in nitrogen ice, as really flat, and has very few craters, meaning times. Most likely this was from cryovolcanoes, and ammonia take the place of lava there. Also, Triton has been seen to have active They're probably due to warming from the in the solar system seen to be geologically of nitrogen, probably due to evaporation from After all this, Neptune is special in another Neptune is faint, and can only be seen telescopically. an accident. Over the decades, astronomers It wasn't where it was supposed to be. Over where it actually was. The French mathematician due to an unseen planet, and was able to use where the new planet would be. He sent a letter Observatory. Astronomer Johann Galle read that very night. Neptune was within a degree Amazingly, another mathematician, Englishman and had made a similar prediction -- but Le Two. Days. Of such tight races are fame made Interestingly, over time, Neptune seemed to A ninth massive planet was predicted, leading of Pluto. But Pluto was far too small to affect Neptune, it found the masses of the planets from Earth. When the new masses were used in the where they were supposed to be. It helps to have Pluto, therefore, was found Neptune is the only planet in the See? Your algebra teacher was right: Someday Today you learned that Uranus and Neptune mantles of ammonia, water, and methane, and blue. Uranus has relatively dull weather, by tremendous winds. Both have rings and moons, iceball that has active geology. Crash Course Astronomy is produced in association their YouTube channel for even more cool videos. The script was edited by Blake de Pastino, It was directed by Nicholas Jenkins, and our The sound designer was Michael Aranda, and