I'm going to a bay To a pilot Lots of people have tried to film a But they're often We know about drones that That tires have been I don't really know A quick warning: some people may find This documentary of how I got here and why My name And sitting next to me is We made a film in September 2021 about for a German More than 1,400 And in just These images went because no one the slaughter of such a large And, to be honest, those were People around the world have The images And I wanted We got a camera The Faroe Islands are in the Norway and Iceland. Just over 50,000 Everyone It was very important to me to I wanted to Why are people still killing pilot I travel a lot, but it Wild and rough. We're headed to the capital Torshavn, The perfect place to meet to the world of I'm waiting Petur is a young man who He's also a He shot that I want him to take me to the Can you take me to the place Yeah, sure. It's about 15 Petur Sigur di Kroki told me he and grew up in In 2021 he realized that He showed me the place where This is the beach? This Yes. It's very quiet at first, but you Everyone who Watch where Because when they're close And then you You slaughter as Petur said he didn't take Instead, this footage. It has gone If you don't like the sight of blood, An agonizingly long time was needed to kill the more than Instead of a few minutes - as the slaughter took Have you ever seen No, not like that. How do you Do you think this should continue here It's complicated. When I was young, I took part It gave me But then I joined the More or less. How can something killing animals It depends where Some traditions I wouldn't call it It was a necessity. In times when there Some called it A gift from God: maybe understandable But why still Petur says his father also And we've been invited to The front door is open. Is it OK if we This man eating muesli is Petur's father His mother doesn't Jens, on the other hand, He's a teacher and it's he's explained to a city kid like I've just seen In Germany, you would or cattle being slaughtered But you do it: why? Because we live Have you ever seen Probably not. It happens behind Here, even small children are That's why you don't see But please: Germans also because they like to Isn't that I think so. We know that dolphins Why do you think Why do you I'm not I'm asking how I work with people who I don't think intelligence is the right to It's our food. We eat dolphins. Harsh words Jens seems The whalers know that most non-Faroese don't understand and We watch a video an organization that has The animal rights activists See all the effects But videos like this go viral and Shall I tell you how I see it? It's the best advertising Really? Why do You are advertising and thus also When Sea Shepherd came back to the there was a hunt here. There were suddenly we couldn't teach And the young Whatever the they have the The animal rights activists but Jens defends Who's right? We can ask the Sea But first, let's recount what we know The Faroese hunt white-sided but they're mainly interested in They're very social and If they are spotted and the weather Like they have for The hunters then rush out into the fjord with their boats They always record An average 630 And about 265 The Faroese say the Hundreds of thousands They don't understand why activists I'm trying to get in touch with The activists usually rent small I want to meet them and find Maybe they'll Finding them He just replied. We can meet at 5pm. We get the address Hey. I'm Samuel... It wasn't that We looked on the map and But now We notice cameras filming They were installed their car had been I meet Aleksandra Why did you come to the I am a marine biologist and They are beautiful, But we don't know They are still What is happening Personally, I think Do you understand who say Sea Shepherd You would just make videos of blood in put some dramatic music on it, but not explain I understand that the tradition Killing animals was But nowadays, in our It only causes Samuel Rostol and his co-workers try The footage shows the animals Perhaps the worst thing is can last Long before it They say themselves that they that makes noise. To drive the animals You see the way It's not normal. They try to escape because much faster than The animals don't Exactly, there's a wall There's only a path to a You often hear the argument here: well, Is it true that they always I would say they But we don't know Whether they keep They cut the animals open and Under the fat. And many leave Can you show me the place where Yeah, sure. They check the lug nuts They're afraid of We drive north, Here they throw the They fall into the sea and There's a lot of meat left on the The activists took this It's supposedly from 2022 don't use all parts I can't get too We do the same If you go to the which I do and buy your the animals were killed Here it's just made Can you understand You're The animals here had a Many animals that we eat The animals were That's not right It's wrong. But what would That nobody eats Well, ideally yes. But that's not Ideally, you wouldn't I think that would The activists have been and believe attitudes They claim some Faroese but that many of them We want to support people I'm against it but I can't it would be bad for my business I'm surprised by that perhaps not everyone on the But many Faroese don't want Why? I find someone This is He's considered a colorful He was an actor and How would you describe a It's someone who When I was a little boy, I used to I remember listening to the radio It was about war and I remember her saying: The world is What she meant was that it's good That we are The Faroe Islands But I realized early that for the The islands have been This is the Prime The Ministry of Finance and The Faroese have faced repeated including by the EU, which through various species Just one of the reasons the What do you think about I'm all for it and I take I've also killed a They live freely until they and killed with a sharp lance within Then they are dead. Of course, there is also suffering Then they panic. But we have to compare this with the These animals only live to end So if you compare it to pilot whale Can you take me on If there's one today, A sarcastic He knows perfectly well that it's It can take days or weeks before the Someone will have to Witnesses one while would be an enormous stroke of luck. And I'd have to Young men are apparently I look for new clues and end up in the with a group of young rowers. One will become They train with wooden village against village on open When we start, we have Wow. 60 strokes I was on a rowing machine That was pure And I saw on the display that They allow me to Rowing is too The wooden The smell of sweat But it's fun. Fortunately, they don't One of the rowers He seems to take We do this for For the next The wooden boat We can only get it out of They used to go whaling in He's 18 and grew up He works in a small We arrange to meet. He shows me the room The one with exhibitions I often come here with And this is for Yes. They used to hunt with Wow. That spear Now they use It goes into the And a rope It's used to pull And that's what we It's very simple and much more humane Why is it more If you use it right, it goes You want a Yes. That takes Very fast. And you don't have a hunting Yes! Why? There's no A few people listen to Sea And the other half I belong to I hope the hunting tradition will We'll see. Can I touch it? We ask Jon Roi if we His mother doesn't but his father John and John even cooks for us. That looks Our fastest song: Thank I am touched by But I've also read that the I still want to try it to understand It tastes a I'm surprised. How often do you Not that often. More often About 10 years ago, About twice a week. Why has I don't know. There's more There are studies that show Do you think about I think only pregnant And you? No, I'm not Some have I don't see If you eat it once a But once a month So how dangerous At least one person on should have been off Christian, nice Pal Weihe is something He has discovered that whale meat So much so that he has What distinguishes pilot whale Cod has 100 100 times. That's a big The muscles and fat of pilot and other toxins because the animals where it Pal says eating it is particularly They pass the poisons Pal and his team have been extensively What can actually happen You can see from the figures too much mercury suffer You don't get But it does Some researchers suspect can trigger I ate whale Pal very often Can you tell Let's do a test. Elsa Helmsdal has All she needs I take it you don't eat Yes, not for I told you so. The women of the Faroe I'm really curious to see the I'm already starting to think You got 0.75. Is that high or That's low. I have twice as Quite normal What is the highest value 40? Yes. Wow. What do you say We talk to them and But some don't Pal's institute has warned everyone But we soon see his on whaling on We were just and got a call that there'll be a I don't know yet but we're trying to get It's going to be tight, because in the far north. I have to The tip came from Jon Roi's family, Looks like they were right: Unbelievable. I wouldn't have You can't see Right now I can It's like a wall The whalers are even allowed to drop We don't know The whalers don't No idea what'll We'll see. The animals I look for Jon and am delighted to see him Hey Jon Roi! Nice Can you explain Yes. They drive the pilot There's a hunting guide what they have Will you be Maybe. It's important that If someone tells you Okay. I don't think anything will and his family But several people They want to know if You can say I'm surprised. It's not just Men, women, Everyone is here. The whole Are they all John has a That's why he is His son Jon Roi is only into shallow water. Once again, a warning: what is about to happen Man, they're From one second I see Jon Roi's I get the feeling everyone But I'm paralyzed. Completely And I don't In just three minutes, The dead animals are pulled back into I've read so Suddenly you're standing It all happened I can't really say what It just happened I think I need more time But there's just something Everything I find Jon Roi in It didn't go quite I was hit on the You were on the Someone must have I thought all the But then I notice He got away. Escaped? Yes, probably That doesn't happen No. But whales can't That's why we always But this If he doesn't find a The dead pilot whales I think about how, they were just swimming And now they are lying dead. I've never seen such How many people can live from a Can you estimate how many families 200. And they're Yah Can you understand that there by this sight and wonder Of course I But they don't see We eat this meat. It's part of And in the past, we Is it still Well... We We eat it. We could But it's one of the few We have potatoes, fish, The rest is The animals are Everyone can help. Nobody has to pay It's free. Anyone who helped with the hunt or just It's quite strange. It's like a The whole village is here and everyone There's a These dead animals. They don't smell But nobody's There are families, I saw small children trying I can really get a sense of how Completely normal for But not for me. Jon Roi's sister Laura also Some of our team struggled And as it turned out, it I still can't quite understand have no problem with whaling, That's why I pay She collected the hair Friends of yours Yes, our All the women on the Faroe We revisit the topic of The negative consequences There is a study from 2014 are aware of the recommendation But they don't Not all of But the young After all, they are the ones Elsa's Most of them don't eat I want to know why. I don't eat it because But my husband It's in him He has a boat too. Yes, he loves it. I remember not being Especially when the little whales I didn't like that. But then you get used And then it's just part of the Most Faroese are politically are dominated I want to know Nobody in politics is calling It's a very If you're against it as a I do have the impression that people have a different attitude. But maybe they don't At least that's But it's not The women on the islands especially if they But most of the I thought this would But things turn We get word At first we thought we wouldn't But now we got I think that's because We've earned a They know we won't cause trouble The water's red. They've started. The roadside is already Something The chase doesn't end on We're a little Look, one is The whalers are having trouble They just won't Now men are jumping into the get on top They told us the hunt and the first one we But this one's The animal keeps And it's a real fight The boats keep sending it back towards There he is. Still alive. This is intense. The fight for life and death Right in front Dozens of young men are They just won't want Just as they don't want something I've really learned I've also learned I couldn't hunt and kill Could you?