(soft piano music) - The truth was, I wasn't I doubted myself, and I wondered, I wondered if I was good If what I was doing in the world, albeit important and was it deserving to have - [Narrator] Harry and for a second chance at the But despite their escape, the world kept on telling In order to set the record straight, they decided to create a with TV giant Netflix. (soft dramatic music) - They feel very wronged, but when they've made the Netflix series. It's opening up a can of worms. - You'll watch that series and think, &quot;The royal family need looking after. They've come out of it better,&quot; or you'll be on the side of &quot;Wow, they had to put up with - [Narrator] Whether they stepped into a war (soft dramatic music continues) - The resentment towards his brother for the protection that he's Of course, those who would be would say, &quot;Look, Prince - [Narrator] And now, what between the couple and the royal family has become a great divide. (soft dramatic music continues) On December 8th, the all access titled &quot;Harry and Meghan.&quot; - Think there's a sort of and exasperation at the palace that the couple feel the about how miserable they were At the same time, the couple feel they need to keep telling - You'll watch that series and think, &quot;The royal family need looking after. They've come out of it better,&quot; or you'll be on the side of &quot;Wow, they had to put up with - [Piers] She's becoming (crowd cheering) - And then. - [Harry] Everything changed. There's a hierarchy of the family. You know, there's leaking, but there's also planting of stories. - There was a war against Meghan to suit other people's agendas. - It's about hatred. It's about race. - It's a dirty game. The pain and suffering of women marrying into this institution, this feeding frenzy. (dramatic music) - [Meghan] I realized they're - [Harry] I was terrified. I didn't want history to repeat itself. (dramatic music continues) (soft music) - The Sussex brand, both is being helped in one way by this Netflix documentary series by bringing the Sussexes if not our TV screens. So there is perhaps a fear that out of sight means out of mind, and by cooperating with Netflix it gets us all talking about them again and it keeps them in the limelight and it keeps their brand - [Narrator] This was the couple's attempt to get across their own side of the story, from their meeting and into the royal family The series is unlike anything seen before, only close in comparison with Princess Diana in 1995. Years of stories half told and were expanded and clarified. The couple's first introduction Harry revealed. Meghan spoke about the meeting Prince William and Meghan even demonstrated her curtsy from the first nail-biting visit to the late Queen Elizabeth II. Meghan claims that her wardrobe was strictly controlled Barred from bright colors to Meghan chose to wear camel and beige in order to blend in and not stand out. Harry, the Duke of Sussex, proclaiming that royals Instead, they feel incredible pressure to marry someone that fits the mold. The fallout from the series has seemingly caught the entire and it seems everybody about what the couple had to say. (soft tense music) - When they were growing up, William and Harry's relationship The two of them really needed one another. They had, you know, an Luckily, they did have nannies and they were therefore kept away from quite a lot of the acrimony that was going on between their parents. But nonetheless, you know, They're very sensitive. And it was also fortunate they because, again, that removed them from most of the nastiness But they did rely on one another. They were very close. The two are very different characters, but they complement one another very well. And they've always had a great banter. They tease each other And then when their mother died, I think that brought because they couldn't what they had experienced. It wasn't, you know, like the because with the death of a normal parent, you don't have the world grieving as well. It was almost as though their by the grief of strangers. So I think it was a very And during the years after Diana's death, there was a bond which than most siblings. I think the time when that was when Harry probably and started going into royal work. And I think there was a little bit of, the space was quite small for the two brothers together. And I think Harry slightly Here was his brother, you know, his mate, but who was slightly you know, because he was the So I think there were one or two little niggles going on there. I suspect that when William married Kate, I mean, Harry adored Kate but I suspect that, as with every family, when one sibling marries, their focus turns slightly and then their children, where previously, their full focus had been on the sibling. So I think maybe, you but Harry, you know, got right up until I would say (soft tense music) - [Narrator] On January 13, 2020, royal watchers were on as Harry and Meghan entered a crisis meeting with Her Majesty and Prince William. This was the deal or no deal moment. The future of the royal family was hanging on the outcome After several tense hours, Buckingham Palace announced that arrangements had been reached for Harry and Meghan to and pursue an independent future. - And this is the real problem for the Queen and Prince Charles. They are dealing with and as a father on the one hand, and they're also dealing with it as the protector of a ancient dynasty. And we have seen that how as protectors of the ancient dynasty, when they need to, they act brutally as they when they removed him from public office. There may be a point that at some stage that the Queen, Charles, that what Meghan and Harry are proposing is a threat to the institution then they will act. - Well. I think these decisions have all got to be made in the future. Anybody who's high profile Former prime ministers and ministers of defense get security for a long period after so I think that's something that they're required to get, security. But these all, this issue in the next few days. - All the way through this relationship, we've seen examples of Harry from the scrutiny. You have to remember, Meghan comes in the and Harry saw the way his and I think he's very keenly and ensuring that that The decision to move to go to Frogmore Cottage is very much about protecting Meghan. You know, they had just redecorated They had just done it up when they announced they and moving to Windsor. By moving to Windsor, Harry and Meghan are hoping of normalcy for themselves Even if you look at the whereas Kate Middleton and full makeup just hours Meghan said from the beginning, They didn't even announce she was in labor until after the baby was safely born. All the way through the birth, even in the last weeks of her pregnancy, Meghan was not seen. And all the way through her birth, Meghan has maintained a to keep certain things private, to keep protected their family. And they are not following They are consistently deviating from what's been done before. And some people think it's admirable and some people think Meghan and Harry are doing - [Narrator] Public reaction While some wish the couple nothing but happiness and success, others felt resentment in - The media press really that's happening in this country between the older generation, is outraged by Harry and the younger generation, - I think the whole plan that Harry and Meghan have because they're talking They're talking, their critics would argue about having their cake and eat it. They're talking about one on a foreign tour to another country, on another day, say in North America, earning serious money with of some sort of product. The risk is that those two The risk is that their pursuit of money will tarnish the Windsor brand and tarnish the House of Windsor. (somber music) - [Narrator] There's no inside the palace was just as divided. (somber music continues) - It's definitely sad for the They have a superb team there who've been fiercely loyal to them. I think the assumption would've been that there would've been who would've been retained to run some kind of They've decided against that. They're severing all ties. It's a really strong signal that they are off on their - [Narrator] The now free of financial independence, stepping back from the royal family, but insisted they would continue and of course, Her Majesty The Queen. They shared their plans between North America and the UK. - It felt like their Farewell UK tour, five engagements in five days, the causes that matter to them, and taking time to say But it is the event they'll attend here at Westminster Abbey that since they returned from Canada, because when they arrive at it will be the first alongside other members of the family since they announced they want and everyone will be Every year since they got married, they've been to the service. Reaching out to the Commonwealth for both of them. Their attendance this that whatever has gone they are still family, that is hugely important to the Queen. When they got engaged, there excited about what they A few days later, they carried but the scrutiny has proved too much and palace life too with no option but to at the end of this month. In just over two years, they have fulfilled every Today is expected to be the In the end, their life - [Narrator] And just like that, as quickly as the whirlwind back in July 2016, less than (tense string music) - You know, the monarchy finds itself in a moment of turmoil because, of course, this has There are so many wider issues at stake, the future of the monarchy, that you keep hearing What does that actually look like if Meghan and Harry do step down? - A lot of you tonight have Well, I'm also here to tell - On their new website, the what was effectively a manifesto of how they're gonna deal And part of it was an attack on this, and specifically, British for their monopoly on royal coverage and essentially accusing the from their very public lives. They talked specifically where British media cover royal events to be distributed around the world. - Obviously, claims they feel they've been been hounded but in reality, there's - Oh, come on, you would say that. - No, the Royal Rota system works. I think it's given them an awful lot of, works very, it's been And one must remember that this that relies upon media, publicity, the public support for its life's blood. - They are in control. They release the images. They choose who comes and talks to them. I mean, that's a relationship That's a relationship that It's a great open question that can work with a senior active member of the British royal family. - [Narrator] As a first the couple founded a non-profit foundation for change. The couple went on to and signed multiple huge media deals with Netflix and Spotify for a series of inspirational documentary reportedly worth around 18 million pounds. (gentle piano music) - Meghan fell pregnant very quickly. They hadn't been married that And according to all reports and rumors, they had just started Now Meghan was not extremely young. You know, in pregnancy I mean, that's literally the term. So I think they didn't They knew they wanted a family and they didn't know how but it happened very quickly. And I think both Meghan and Harry were surprised at how quickly it happened. But it's all the more of a blessing. Meghan is very much a belly cupper. Every single picture we she was cupping that belly. Sometimes we had a double cup above and underneath the belly. You know, this is something on red carpets. Meghan Markle is a She knows about angles. She knows about what makes a good picture. She knows about what's She's smart and she has used in her role. There's nothing wrong to use the knowledge you in another one. Meghan Markle has been one of the most stylish pregnant She didn't favor maternity clothes. She tended to wear designer clothes which would accommodate her bump. Meghan has a very slim, and she was able to wear designer clothes all the way through. She looked gorgeous the entire pregnancy. The only visible difference was her face was perhaps a bit fuller, and actually, just made to have the kind of through the pregnancy. Pregnancy very much suited her and I would be shocked that these two are going to have. Meghan's pregnancy was actually announced during her first royal tour. And there was a backlash actually because it was announced so soon after Princess Eugenie's wedding. A lot of people felt that from poor Eugenie, who had gotten married, literally, like the It was ridiculous because Meghan has the to announce her pregnancy and probably they waited to announce because they didn't But Meghan was in the in which she was probably due to morning sickness or or jostled too much in the crowd. She had to explain herself, and she had the right to stay home if she was tired one morning when she was in the early So I think Meghan and Harry in a way because she was in she probably was gonna and there might be obvious bump pictures, which would just set off Meghan showed very early in her pregnancy. She was only a little bit pregnant and she already had a bump. So I think it was a necessity really for Harry and Meghan to as early as they did. - [Reporter] Prince Harry, anything you want to - Yes. I'm very excited to announce that Meghan and myself had a a very healthy boy. Mother and baby are doing incredibly well. It's been the most amazing experience I could ever possibly imagine. How any woman does what they But we're both absolutely thrilled and so grateful to all from everybody out there. It's been amazing. So we just wanted to I'm so incredibly proud of my wife. And as every father and you know, your baby is absolutely amazing, but this little thing is so I'm just over the moon. - Meghan's baby shower was for a celebrity, not a I don't even know if Kate but if she did, it was probably, with a cup of tea and, like, This was not gonna be this, like, amazing, over-the-top, celebrity Meghan did her baby shower as a celebrity. It was thrown by a and it was attended by celebrities and it looked like something Meghan, unfairly really, because the truth is, how in the planning of their own baby shower? The answer is zero. Meghan had probably nothing to do with it, had knew nothing about it except that she was supposed to show up in New York on this date. And Amal Clooney said, &quot;Look, I'll give you a ride in my jet.&quot; The over-the-top extravagance with Meghan's friends than One thing that was very was Meghan actually didn't She wanted to wait and open She took them all home with her and they opened them together as a couple. This is really unprecedented. I mean, normally one of the is watching the mother-to-be So this broke with tradition, but she didn't want Harry to miss out. In the lead-up to the birth, Harry and Meghan both said they They wanted it to be a surprise. So they had to obviously then Had it been a girl, Diana and I believe it was very likely that Diana would've been the first name, or at least in the And the reason is, you Harry and William both whenever possible in their relationship and I think it grieved them both that she wasn't there when they married. She wasn't there to see her grandchildren. And so I believe with all my heart, Diana is probably, in future, going to be a girl's name for this pair. In terms of boys' names, there were a lot of names They were all connected but not typically traditional, so for example, Alexander, which is a perfectly but not as commonly used, and other, sort of middle like Arthur, were two of the names that were favored at the beginning. - [Narrator] On March 7th at 8:00 PM, CBS aired the landmark interview led by TV legend Oprah Winfrey. The two-hour interview has the magnitude of which still It was the interview that some within Buckingham but the Prince Harry and Meghan was more revealing, explosive, and potentially damaging than many could have imagined. - Harry and Meghan left as left the country, went to and then gave that devastating in which Meghan said that just before her wedding where there had been a rumor long before that Meghan had made Kate cry. So in this interview, she and make it clear that - [Narrator] Allegations of and Meghan's admission during her pregnancy have been in the United Kingdom. Throughout their two-hour TV special, both Harry and Meghan spoke delivering accusations and rebukes that outweighed even Princess more than two decades earlier. - Prince Harry's relationship and has got progressively worse He believes deeply and profoundly that the media contributed to So ever since her death, he has tried to find an accommodation, and that accommodation that the intense interest to throw focus on issues (melancholic music) - [Reporter] Meghan, can becoming a new mum and Baby Sussex as we're calling him. - (laughs) It's magic. It's pretty amazing. I mean, I have the two so I'm really happy. - [Interviewer] Tell us a What's he like? Sleeping well with baby? - Yes. He has the sweetest temperament. He's really calm and- - I dunno who he gets that from. (Harry and Meghan giggle) - Yeah, and he's been, So it's been a special couple days. - [Reporter] Who does he take after? Does he look at like anyone? - We still haven't figured that out. - Everyone says that babies We're basically sort of monitoring how the changing process happens over this next month, really, but his looks are - He is. - [Interviewer] And how you What's it, is it sort of a special moment? - [Harry] Yeah, it's great. I mean, parenting is amazing. It's only been, what, two and - [Meghan] Yeah. - But we're just, we're just so thrilled to have our own little bundle of joy, be able to spend some as he slowly starts to grow up. - [Interviewer] And I two special people in a minute, - Yes. - [Reporter] The Queen and the Duke? - Yes, and we just bumped into the Duke as we were walking by, which was so nice. So it'll be a nice moment to more family and my so it's been a really... Here we go. - Guys, thank you - very, very much. - Thanks for your time. - Thanks a lot. for all the well wishes and the kindness. It's really, just means so much. - Thanks all for the support. - [Reporter] Behind the is where fewer than 25 guests were invited to witness the newest royal baptism, those invited taken discreetly Outside though, the streets Those hoping to catch a glimpse of the royal christening - We do pay for the royal family, including Meghan and Harry, and I think that they could you know, a little something. - I think he should be public, you know. He always has been. Why change it? - It's their decision. It's their family. It's not as if they're direct in line. - [Reporter] And this royal watcher says the public may have to get used to this royal couple's desire for privacy. - Well, it seems to be the case that Harry has decided to have more of a private life. He feels he's a long way from the throne and wants to enjoy some type of privacy. But it could be a problem he is growing up in a royal goldfish bowl. He has got two of the most - Today's christening is a part of the continuing desire by the Duke and Duchess of Sussex to raise their son, Archie, And they're a couple determined - [Narrator] According to Harry, the royal family completely around the first quarter of 2020 when they decided to become independent from the royal family. This left him concerned for his safety and the safety of his family. He said that he now is from his mother. - [Reporter] The most raised by the couple's is their protection, specifically who will provide it, Prince Charles has agreed and their son from his own private income, but by stepping back, Harry and Meghan will now be able to work. There are still lots but Harry and Meghan will soon and a different kind of royalty. - It was a terrible interview, to the monarchy, to Britain as a whole, because Meghan talked about the and did huge damage to Harry's and with William. Harry also accused his father of cutting him off financially, which we now know actually wasn't true. We now know several things that were said in that - [Narrator] Meghan claimed from certain undisclosed who questioned her about - They both suggested had made a racist remark about And Harry talked about William from which he had been trapped himself and hadn't realized he was trapped until Meghan had had made it clear to him. - You know, Meghan herself has of being biracial. She has said, &quot;I wasn't black I wasn't white enough for the white roles, and I was in the middle And her journey has been, in part, to find the strength and dignity and embodying a beautiful, and all that that means. You know, Meghan is reeducating people. There's never been a mixed race and this is an incredible thing. I was at the royal wedding when Meghan and Harry got married. I was in Windsor and I remember there were a lot of women there who were black with little who were celebrating this special day. And people can't have any for there to be a Black princess, for there to be a mixed race princess, because we haven't had that before. And I think that just that Meghan is who she inspires young girls, inspires women, and that's a beautiful thing. The royal family cannot and reflect the world at large, and to be entirely white, it So Meghan is representing that she's accomplished and talented and mixed race, It's great for the royal family. It's a great for everyone else. - [Narrator] Oprah went on to clarify that the couple made it clear or Prince Philip that made these remarks. Either way, the palace addressing the alleged racism. The palace said, &quot;Recollections may vary, but the matters would The big royal wedding that and was watched by the world, turns out it was all a performance. The couple claimed that in a secret ceremony three in their backyard. Perhaps most troubling of that she experienced real and as a result of such and isolation at the palace. Becoming a royal meant giving and independence. Meghan also claimed that it was disparaging that the palace refused to correct false - There were rumors that Meghan was bullying Her method of working was not Whether it was because she was American, whether it was because who treated people in a different way, it was not what had happened in the past within that royal household. And I think William, when he heard that some members of staff were being reduced to tears or not enjoying their working life, I think he got very angry and told him what was going on. And Harry, I think, was So that is where I think a fracture in this bond that Then, of course, Harry and Meghan left as left the country, went to and then gave that devastating in which Meghan has said just before her wedding where there had been a rumor long before that Meghan had made Kate cry. So in this interview, she and make it clear that They both suggested that had made a racist remark about And Harry talked about William from which he had been trapped himself and hadn't realized he was trapped until Meghan had made it clear to him. It was a terrible interview, to the monarchy, to Britain as a whole because Meghan talked about the country really being racist and to Harry's relationship with - [Narrator] The main event has, of course, been the Lilibet, in June 2021. - My husband and I are thrilled to soon be welcoming a daughter. It's a feeling of joy we share with millions of other When we think of her, we think of all the young women who must be given the ability and support to lead us forward. Their future leadership depends and the actions we take now to set them up and to set all of us up for and compassionate tomorrow. - [Narrator] Just days after Meghan released her inspired by a Father's Day It became a New York Times bestseller within a week of release. The couple have also taken part in their fair share of activism. On her 40th birthday, Meghan filmed a video with to launch her 40x40 mentorship campaign, raising awareness about the women globally who have lost their jobs - As campaign chairs of VAX LIVE, my husband and I believe it's critical that our recovery prioritizes and success of everyone, who've been disproportionately With the surge in gender-based violence, the increased responsibility and new obstacles that have for women in the workplace, we're at an inflection Women, and especially women of color, have seen a generation of Wince the pandemic began, nearly five and a half million women have lost work in the US around the world are expected But if we work together to bring vaccines to every country and continent, insist that vaccines are and fairly priced, and around the world are donating to countries in need, then we not only to restore us but to go further and rapidly opportunity, and mobility - [Narrator] For all the scrutiny that Harry and Meghan have to endure, it's easy to forget the as a way to reach out to in public service. From building their to the small ways the couple gives back, Harry and Meghan continue to leave a positive impact on the world and create a better - Meghan Markle is not someone who just wants a pretty designer dress and a glass of champagne. She is actually engaged and and the storylines of where they're going. In fact, she got in trouble who was in Parliament I believe, and congratulated them that would've nullified and said, &quot;You know, that's great,&quot; and ended up getting in trouble because the Irish politician tweeted, &quot;Oh, I had this great and she congratulated us on And everybody was like, &quot;You You can't defend any position.&quot; I think one of the most in this whole experience for Meghan is the royal tradition of not showing your political leanings, of not having opinions. That is something that I think and will very much (gentle music) - [Narrator] Two years after Prince Harry and Meghan Markle stepped back as senior members of the royal family, the couple returned to the Harry and Meghan saw the before attending the 2022 The secret visit came almost a year after Prince Philip's funeral, which had been the last time to have reunited with the Queen and the extended royal family. On September 8, 2022, while preparing to attend a charity event, Queen Elizabeth II died at (somber music) - Buckingham Palace of Queen Elizabeth II, the in British history. - The Queen died peacefully The King and the Queen Consort this evening and will (somber music continues) (somber music continues) - [Narrator] On September 10, 2022, the new Prince and Princess of were joined by the Duke and to view the tributes to the Queen and spent time talking to the crowds. There was mixed reactions This was the first time since March 2020 that the two couples - When it was finally announced there was an extraordinary amongst the nation because, you know, the majority of the Queen's subjects had never known another monarch. And it was kind of the end of an era. It wasn't just her death; It was end of the Elizabethan And of course, it was all so dramatic and so beautifully even more poignant. You know, the soldiers, the people that used to work for the Queen walking behind her coffin And the crowd, we know, was crying, or they were crying or they were cheering, or they were just silent, You could hear a pin drop. I remember when Diana died You could actually, you could just hear the birds. You couldn't hear anything else. No sound from the crowd. And that is sort of real high emotion. (gentle piano music) - [Narrator] The couple then went on to attend the late Queen's funeral, with Harry marching behind the - [Charles] In her life of service, we saw that abiding love of tradition together with that fearless which makes us great as nations. The affection, admiration, and respect she inspired became That was more than a promise. It was a profound personal commitment which defined her whole life. She made sacrifices for duty. Her dedication and devotion through times of change and progress, through times of joy and celebration, and through times of sadness and loss. (gentle piano music continues) - [Narrator] It seems that despite Harry and Meghan's attempt to outrun the media and start a new life in Los Angeles, that storm has caught up with them. Once again, they're on every front page and in everyone's mouths. Their attempt at privacy backfired, but their attempt to tell seems to have only emboldened The reconciliation that between Harry and his The cracks that split the royal family and these former royals has (gentle piano music continues) (light music)