Hello, friends! Today, I'm going terrifying wars of the last century. It's undoubtedly the most horrifying armed conflict of the 1990s -- the war as the Yugoslav Civil War. This war was brutal, loss of life and countless war crimes. It was also, in many ways, a confusing war, because the information at the time, especially contradictory and complicated. I remember watching Here were the Croats, there the Serbs, the Serbian I couldn't make sense of who was fighting whom. and realized that many people happened there. I'm not claiming what I'm sharing today comes an outsider's perspective. Someone who lived in the disintegrating Yugoslavia at that time might have seen the picture differently, But nevertheless, I'll try and how it all happened. Let's start with Yugoslavia. In the 1980s, an average Soviet citizen saw Yugoslavia as a very good country, as a country In one of my earlier episodes, I mentioned briefly Although they were part of the socialist bloc, they had elements of capitalist and they had ties with Western Europe. For a Soviet person, traveling to Yugoslavia and you could bring back nice things from there. populated by Yugoslavs. Forgive me, that it was home to Serbs, Croats, Bosnians -- Personally, I didn't know all that stuff, So, what was Yugoslavia? After World War I, suffered a crushing defeat, Europe was divided, and the victors got nearly everything they were on the winning side. Thus, the Kingdom of Serbs was formed, which included various Balkan territories Serbs, Croats, Slovenes, Bosnians, Bosnian Orthodox Christians, There were also Montenegrins, Macedonians, were brought together, and later, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. So, from the very start, there were and there were very serious religious during World War II, these tensions flared up the majority of Croats supported Nazi Germany, while the Serbian partisans fought against them. This led to fierce clashes between the Croats and Serbs, often ending in massacres based on ethnic grounds -- tragically common in such wars. It often happens in this type of conflicts. Josip Broz Tito became the leader and a highly authoritarian ruler, though mostly, and I emphasize it, mostly, the vast network of gulags. and iron-fisted leader. His relationship as it was difficult for two dictators in the same socialist bloc without held Yugoslavia together with an iron grip -- with different religions, as I mentioned leading into the 1980s. Friends, for many of us, the topic of a stable these days. Since 2020, the most stable job has been one in the IT field, and it's easy to see why. from anywhere in the world, which is in any city, while your client could be IT skills are universal and highly in the IT industry is that of a Data Scientist. These which are used almost everywhere -- to space satellites. In Russia, the average salary Just last year, the number which makes sense because these specialists You can learn this profession at any age For a strong start, I recommend The training is 80% practice, which is crucial. With experienced instructors from all the essentials. You can choose allowing you to study faster, slower, You'll also have a mentor and keep you motivated to complete craft your resume and find a job. of positive reviews on Google so you can be confident in the quality of the course. and with the promo code &quot;Minaev&quot;, start learning right now. Back to the 1980s, mid-decade, we see things begins its perestroika, and the socialist bloc -- the Warsaw Pact countries -- starts to crack bloodless revolutions, that is -- Hungary, and Poland. Well, the last one there were some clashes in Poland. Essentially, who is another dictator but in Romania, So, everything starts to fall apart, Romania becomes a country for For example, Czechoslovakia wasn't really of Czechs and Slovaks, and it eventually split to understand how things were. realized that Soviet influence over everything was falling apart, a dominant force in the region. They were like, &quot;Let's Around the mid-1980s, Slobodan Milosevic emerges as one of the party leaders in Serbia. Opinions into his biography right now. as a rather narrow-minded and unintelligent above the rank of some railway station manager it's unwise to underestimate people. effectively the leader of the Serbian Communist Party. what matters is who they become.&quot; And He was a cunning bureaucrat, highly strategic that everything was starting to crumble, in key regions and republics across Yugoslavia, Republic of Yugoslavia. He placed his supporters in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Soon after, the narrative emerged There was talk of how, thanks to the Serbs, with the famous Battle of Kosovo being a key the memory of their ancestors, and that and that they should be the ones Initially, Milosevic was somewhat In 1990, Franjo Tudman became the leader of Croatia, He declared, &quot;Wait a minute, historical heritage? Well, this right here is our historical an ethnonational revival of the country with should be free and independent, Tudman wanted Croatia to be a nation-state for Croats. recognized two founding nations: the Serbs within Croatian territory. However, this was Serbs were downgraded from The Serbs remaining in Croatia responded to be a minority.&quot; In the small region they declared the Republic of Serbian Krajina, which sought to join with Serbia proper. This car is unique -- the driver is also a guide. The only way to pass the challenge [Music] Now, let's move on to the next significant moment -- 1991. in Croatia and Slovenia, two republics People declared their desire to live of Croatia and Slovenia. So, what does to fall apart and feels that And how can it be stopped? Only by force. Let's and paramilitary units, were organized There was a national army under the command of the supreme commander, made up representing different nationalities. like in any other country, needless to say. the Territorial Defense Forces -- Territorial Defense Forces, of the respective republic rather than the federal Yugoslavia had fought very effectively Over the years, Yugoslavia feared first from NATO countries and later in Prague and Budapest. They feared So, these Territorial Defense Forces were and retreat into the mountains or forests So, these people were well trained. So, what happens next? Milosevic says, This issue should be brought a national referendum must be held.&quot; but we'll handle things ourselves here, &quot;Well, then, Slovenia needs to be reined in. And note that after Slovenia, Macedonia also declares its independence. Both on the opposite sides of Yugoslavia, both Western and Eastern ones. they have not Yugoslavia, but other without bloodshed, so we'll put that we'll return to Macedonia later, at the end enough blood as it is. Slovenia, however, sent the Yugoslav army into Slovenia, or rather, They were ordered to take control of key objects and local television to prevent separatism. However, since Slovenes served in territorial defense battalions, they Near the end of June 1991, around 26-27th of June, the war, the first armed conflict between It ended quickly, however, with only On July 4, the remaining Yugoslav That was it -- Slovenia became Meanwhile, the disintegration of the country Seeing what happened in Slovenia, Yugoslav army garrisons, particularly those with a large Serbian presence. in socialist Yugoslavia, as I know from even under strict control from For example, there were two major Serbian The Croats, respectively, had Hajduk Every match between these teams with fans getting seriously injured was often fueled by nationalistic These smoldering tensions were just As the Croats seized Serbian garrisons, they gained control of 500 armored vehicles. including 200 tanks and 800 cannons, which is a lot. lived in Croatia, as I mentioned earlier, &quot;Now we are the Republic of Serbian Krajina, we'll join the main territory, our homeland, It's a brutal war because the Yugoslav also have some aircraft, but the main Pay attention to the rhetoric Milosevic accuses the Croatian while the Croatians accuse Milosevic the rhetoric is very familiar. Serbia, a small country, even though, of course, these territories as part of Yugoslavia, had inherited, so this had to be preserved. and it's made worse by the fact that these and there's the rest of Croatia. or at least acquaintances, and now Croatia's cities, and Zagreb, the capital. Vukovar is called the &quot;Croatian Stalingrad&quot;, because of the brutal siege, and while each side lost about 1.5 million people, these losses were huge. Serbian forces bomb Croatian cities, and the Croatians, retaliate by pounding Serbian Krajina. keeps gaining momentum. In the spring of 1992, By this time, it's important to note, Slovenia and Croatia have been by the UN. Naturally, Belgrade does not The resolution calls for an end to the war, and for the first time, UN peacekeepers -- Croatian territory and attempt to position themselves Consequently, the Yugoslav (Serbian) army withdraws to the territory of Serbian Krajina. A ceasefire follows, and prisoners are exchanged. However, in 1995, the war resumes despite the presence of peacekeepers. on the Adriatic coast -- specifically, Both operations are marked against the Serbian population, with the Croats You know Dubrovnik, a center of tourism tourist destination. For instance, were filmed there. During the war, and attempted to blockade and take it the Croats resume military As I mentioned, ethnic cleansing begins immediately. means, as this kind of diplomatic language So, what is it? It involves the killing against children, the elderly, and women -- These actions triggered which we'll discuss later, tasked with Initially, it started with Croatians' actions. Following this, the UN Security Council and even threatened that the peacekeepers their weapons against the Croats. a peace agreement was reached effectively ending the Croatian Let's mark this point because a truce between Serbia and Croatia in 1992, then renewed fighting in 1995, Now, let's return to 1992. Serbs and Croats, a second war began -- even more terrifying and inhumane the Bosnian War. What is Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who lives there? 44% of are Muslims, including some Serbs, on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, So, 44% Muslims, keep that in mind, and 24% Croats. Imagine a pie chart. The idea was this: Yugoslavia had Slovenia and Macedonia had separated, The next thought was, &quot;Let's divide Bosnia the two largest nations But it didn't work out that easily -- this wasn't In February 1992, a referendum took place, and the Muslim and Croatian voted for independence: &quot;We want to be refused to recognize the referendum. This In April 1992, the United States and the European Union recognized Its leader, Alija Izetbegovic, there were no elections, he was simply was recognized as president by the US and the EU. living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, So, let's recap: Slovenia and Macedonia Croatia has Serbian Krajina within has the Republic of Srpska within its borders. are striving to reunite with their motherland, The war begins with what could though that's not the right word, obviously. a Serbian wedding is taking place. by a notorious gangster passes by, The gangster is Ramiz Belkic. with his own gang, he later became infamous smuggling, and, allegedly, even organ in a different war, a bit later. he had a gang and would die much later. He too would be killed in Sarajevo, as a result of a gang conflict after the war. So, these Whether they saw a Yugoslav flag, it's hard to say now. But the gang members opened fire and killed the groom. This triggered a fierce confrontation in the city. The Yugoslav army, tried to calm the situation, with Serbians on one side and Bosnian Bosnian Muslims launched an attack stationed in Sarajevo. This was involving Orthodox Serbs living and then, naturally, Yugoslavia, or rather what was left of it -- namely Serbia -- got dragged in. or rather Serbia, was Slobodan Milosevic. In the Republic of Srpska, the and Herzegovina, a different leader emerged -- be convicted by the Hague Tribunal. He would become The Serbs began an assault on Sarajevo, which was inhabited by Bosnian Muslims. of the Bosnian War. Firstly, it and secondly, it entered the pop culture. You may have heard of the band U2 Wherever there's a war, famine, on a humanitarian mission. never turns a blind eye, although he's and using these missions for self-promotion. It's worth noting that during the siege which lasted four years, a well-known It was about a beauty pageant The iconic photograph from this event holding up a banner that reads A record was released, titled with one of its most famous tracks being Pavarotti. It's an incredible song; you listen to it right now. The Serbs bombarded Sarajevo, while The war was essentially one of total destruction, The first episode of ethnic cleansing -- was the massacre in Pofalici, They burned about 500 houses During one of their raids on the Yugoslav army, the civilians, committing acts of rape, looting, expulsion, and murder. It was clear that people were executed in basements, At that time, people believed that after the defeat of Nazi Germany in 1945 But here, a brutal massacre began. finished their war with Serbia? They provided them with weapons, The Bosnian Muslims and Croats were allies, that Bosnia and Herzegovina was intended with each wanting to live independently. the establishment within Bosnia of Herzeg-Bosna. This republic was meant leaned toward Croatia. a stab in the back, and naturally, The UN and the European community the Croats had signed, and Croatia quickly effectively exiting the conflict. shifts to the Serbs. They unsuccessfully digging in on the dominant heights with mortars and artillery. Around this time, a massive humanitarian As I mentioned earlier, Bosnian where Serbs who hadn't managed to flee apartments broken into and seized. Even famous names didn't stop them. in Sarajevo, which was taken over by militants. As I mentioned, the war started with bandits, These criminal groups fought alongside groups pursued completely organizing smuggling operations, arranging What do bandits do in war? They see it as a business and why? Well, we see Bosnian Muslims and on both religious and national grounds, and these things are extremely volatile. clash in war, it leads to massacres. earlier, proved that Serbs were just as guilty of ethnic cleansing. In Sarajevo, essentially, people were starving. attempted to send aid reached Sarajevo. There was a tunnel with the outside world, through which and medicine was sent. However, The Serbs knew that along with medicine into the besieged Sarajevo, weapons for of this war, at least from the Serbian that all Serbian territories should The West and NATO saw our growing strength and breaking up Yugoslavia, so that many much smaller countries&quot;. The Serbs discovered what was happening, transport plane, killing two or four pilots. NATO and the EU declared Bosnia meaning any unauthorized aircraft In 1993, peace talks began, didn't trust each other at all. These were three-sided negotiations: the Serbs living in Bosnia; Izetbegovic, representing the Bosnians; and Boban, representing the Croats. by the Americans, but the talks failed, so many friends and acquaintances killed, that no one was willing to forgive the other. the Yugoslav army, continued horrific crimes of this war occurred -- by units of the Yugoslav army, who This event is also notable because and in Srebrenica, near Sarajevo, there entered, and the terrified civilians the Dutch commander, the one in charge People were left running through the streets, Women and children were released, all men of fighting age, were detained and sent would reappear throughout the war, and Croats. Each camp bore the marks humiliation, and violence. People were starved -- everything also happened here, both in The war was one of ethnic extermination. The Dutch would later face long-standing into their base. The Dutch government The commander of the Dutch unit stated, Dutch mothers would never have forgiven at us after realizing we were Later, after the war, the &quot;Mothers of Bosnia&quot; group filed a lawsuit against the Netherlands I'm not entirely sure if the claim was fully satisfied, partially or entirely. The massacre claimed 8,000 lives. When they ran out of bullets, they threw and some were doused with lime and hide the evidence of war crimes. how did this all become known? mentally unstable individuals, and some of what they've done. Although there were One recording fell into a well-known Yugoslav journalist, There were also survivors of these mass executions, and they later testified in courts. The Yugoslavs, after the discovery of such a large number of bodies, tried to downplay saying it was just military losses or the actions to distance themselves from the atrocity, suggesting with the rest allegedly brought in from the fact remains that the crime in Srebrenica Croats had previously committed followed by the Bosniaks, and the Serbs never justifies another.&quot; was an appalling war crime, and the world realized that the conflict with crimes of a distinctly Nazi-like nature, both in style and in the scale Russia and the United States demanded To understand the context, Russia in 1995 was dealing with its own Chechen war, with Yeltsin seeking reelection amidst a political and economic crisis, Russia attempted to play a role calling on the warring parties fratricidal war&quot;. However, the war raged on. On August 14, 1995, NATO launched &quot;Operation Deliberate Force&quot; in response and the ongoing violence. Before diving into the operation itself, As I mentioned earlier, the Serbs around Sarajevo and were shelling the city. would later be charged not only for for initiating a sniper war, targeted both Bosnian soldiers and civilians. This sniper campaign would be In 1994, during one of the mortar shellings, a bomb exploded in a crowded Sarajevo The Serbs later denied responsibility, behind the blast. At that time, NATO if the violence did not stop. Another again, with the Serbs denying involvement, as if it all just happened out of nowhere. story, it is clear that the Bosnians the Serbs deny it. Well, the bombing, the explosions, all of this prompted NATO In August, NATO began bombing Serbian positions, deploying a significant number to the Serbian forces' retreat, This operation lasted for several months, of the Dayton Agreement on December 21, 1995. numbering around 60,000, were already and the Serbs had been pushed back. which eventually led to a peace agreement. and the Republika Srpska were established. receiving about 49% and the Bosniaks and Croats with estimates of around 200,000 people killed, Different organizations report that from all sides were victims of rape. Around 150,000 Serb refugees, who had lost cleansing, fled Bosnia and Herzegovina. reached 2.2 million -- an appalling the bombings and the siege, around Meanwhile, Bosnian gangs continued to terrorize the city, persisting until the early 2000s. Thus, one of the bloodiest But it wasn't the last war. Let's take stock, as history and highlight the key points. By 1998, Croatia was an independent state, Slovenia was an independent state, Bosnia and Herzegovina was an independent state, and Serbia was left together with 1998, Kosovo, a significant region inhabited by Kosovo Serbs and Albanians. drawn into the conflict. and Albanians were strong, and from ethnic clashes, but no war had broken out yet. The war began in the spring of 1998, A Serb killed an Albanian youth, and These are hot-headed people -- look up of the most notorious criminals, their They even work for the Italian mafia, 'Ndrangheta are serious players. So, they at least know how to fight. police officers and trying In response, the police opened fire and In 1998, the Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) was formed by the Albanian population of Kosovo. and militants, and later on, many others joined them, from Al-Qaeda to There were 22,000 Yugoslav troops, along with about 18,000 police officers. to have around 20,000 fighters. that these Albanian militants didn't just And this is interesting because they were and instructors from the SAS, Britain's elite which borders Kosovo -- check the map are located. The Albanian militants of having ties with Al-Qaeda, and indeed, Bosnian Muslims, despite harbored hatred towards the Serbs. similar to a unit that existed in Afghanistan, although these are different &quot;Black Swans&quot; -- This unit included Afghans, Saudis, and mujahideen, And so, the guerrilla war began -- in small towns, and was complicated by the fact that there couldn't be a single decisive we must understand that war now It takes place in urban areas, forests, and foothills -- like in the Middle Ages: like, here's the Serbian army, No, no such battles exist; now it's all hybrid were quite effective -- they were The Albanians then appealed to the international community, about 200,000 Albanians were forced mostly to Albania or the neighboring was no war at the time. The EU and NATO started just ended, and here you are, Of course, the Serbs argued that they didn't start the war in Kosovo; And again, yes, the Serbs still believed that this entire war and everything else was driven by the West's desire to deprive it of as much territory as possible, and to push it out of the political arena a ceasefire memorandum was signed, a document stating cessation of hostilities. and the war seemed to have ended. NATO NATO planes began patrolling how the conflicting sides were adhering to the accused NATO of using these patrols identify air defense locations, and all in preparation for future strikes. In 1999, the war resumed when, in Racak, 45 Albanians were executed by the Serbs The Serbs claimed they had executed members of the Albanian Liberation Army. peace talks resumed involving Yugoslavia, and Russia. There was an attempt to stop the war. withdraw its troops from Kosovo, a proposal Yugoslavia viewed Kosovo as its own territory, This led to NATO launching the infamous &quot;Operation Allied Force&quot;, which essentially was a plan to bomb Serbia. The operation lasted from March On the day the bombings of Yugoslavia began, was en route to Washington for talks with the he famously turned his plane around -- He canceled the talks as a personal initiative, and refusing to attend the negotiations. began a systematic bombing campaign though figures can be confusing -- there were 35,219 bombing sorties against Let me show this from another angle -- 450 times a day, NATO bombed Yugoslavia. fired 300 missiles from ships and planes. bridges, hospitals, and in April, a missile hit a civilian train. NATO pilots claimed military infrastructure and units, But when asked about the train, had suddenly moved onto the bridge they intended Similarly, a bus was hit by a missile at one point. These are just small examples -- Burned-out Belgrade, destroyed Novi Sad -- It couldn't resist; it was utterly devastated. by the Serbs, which had The stealth fighter was considered it was downed by the old Soviet air defense compared to the fact that the Yugoslav Air Force they were carpet-bombed with Slobodan Milosevic agreed to peace. The war was put on pause. For what? It was planning to send troops into Then, on June 11th, an incident in Russia and Serbia: the &quot;Dash to Pristina&quot;. was about to move in its troops, Russian paratroopers made a 600-kilometer dash When British forces arrived, the Russians preventing helicopters from landing ground forces arrived, the Russian troops, aimed them at the British, British General Mike Jackson demanded that to which a Russian soldier with a rocket launcher Interestingly, James Blunt, the British singer was serving in the NATO forces at the time, He later recalled that the Russians and if he had been ordered his comrades would have done it, Thankfully, the confrontation did not start either. On April 12th, Milosevic made one last desperate attempt to save himself, He appealed to join the union treaty between Russia and Belarus. And President leaving Milosevic to face NATO alone. I've already told you about the Republic and the Republic of Srpska Milosevic would often be criticized after the signing of the Dayton Agreement he first surrendered the Serbs in Croatia, and then tried to do the same with In any case, Milosevic would later be the main person blamed for He was an authoritarian leader for the war. However, Milosevic would I was protecting the country's integrity this is how I acted in Bosnia, and this is how a part of Yugoslavia." but it ended terribly for Milosevic. In 2000, there were new elections in Yugoslavia, and Milosevic lost. He refused to accept tried to cling to power, leading to the famous Bulldozer Revolution. When he attempted to rally and the entrances to barracks Milosevic was captured at his to the Hague Tribunal. I also promised to mention Macedonia, Here's what happened: after a large Albanian diaspora migrated to Macedonia. In Macedonia, Albanians attempted to form an army similar this time called the National Their goal was to gain independence within Macedonia. This led and the emergence of armed criminal from January to October 2001, deploying troops and quickly disarming Thus, in 2001, what some historians and others refer to as The result was the creation Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, Kosovo (still with an and Montenegro, which had remained it declared its independence in 2006. These are the countries that emerged. the Hague Tribunal. Milosevic was captured, war criminals from all sides because Serbs, Bosnians, Croats, Albanians, and even I won't go into too much detail about the trials to see the end of his trial and died in prison. But here's the story: a total were convicted by the tribunal. Sixty percent of Yugoslavia's military, civil, ended up on trial. There's one thing and which was brought up during the tribunal, though they only tried to convict two couriers. During the war in Kosovo, Serbs had their kidneys, livers, and hearts removed and sold to recipients in Israel, Turkey, The illegal transplants fetched prices This was the price of human organs. meaning it wasn't just isolated cases; of illegal transplants. I won't go into the details can look up yourselves, about the condition and whether they were alive or dead at the time. That's but what's important is that this was And essentially, hardly anyone So, that's the story of what happened atrocities -- a war where former killing, raping, and torturing each other without any sign of hesitation leaving Yugoslavia divided I've already mentioned. Some of these nations have since while Serbia has remained much more closely which had tried for many years ethnic mix, fell apart. and most of the people responsible did face justice and ended up on trial. However, there has been much debate Many argued that the prosecution and ignored evidence of serious violations committed by Croats, Bosnians, and Albanians. The process was criticized Western journalists also spoke of its partiality. But whenever the word &quot;bias&quot; was mentioned, by pointing to the Srebrenica massacre, where to discuss bias here? Probably not, right?&quot; of the history of Yugoslavia as a state. I want to thank you for how much our channel &quot;Templars&quot; has hit 1.2 million, &quot;Freemasons&quot; 1.4 million, and &quot;Berlin Wall&quot; is close to 300,000. It's been tough for us -- we hardly have standing strong, and we'll keep going, working for you through these educational videos. [music]