one playing Black Yoshi. What? Okay, bagging time. something. Okay...oka--yeah, got me. At least I have a bullet. Um, I'm just gonna use it, like, right please! Probably not gonna happen, but I don't hold it for way too long. No, mushroom! Oh. think they didn't--they just got hit. Okay, I can next set if I stay in ninth. Or nearly guaranteed. this is annoying. No, I got my team--no, I don't have a chance. All right, I need to be more aware. shortcat321 guy sure does know bill extensions. was racing with JSouth, and JSouth copied me for missed it 'cause he used it too late? Very nice. What? I thought I started in 10th and still be guaranteed there. So, I somehow got a red shell, My teammate's here. The red shell could skip what? That was crazy. I didn't get the item, and actually very difficult to hit someone like that. Okay, I'm gonna hold these. Only have three just can't get two items to save my life there. I was mushrooming. You were so fast! [Music] Have a star! There's triple reds right here, and I'm kidding. And then we slow down. There's still Another 10th, wow. What a not-great though. Let's go! [laughs] I should have switched are we doing in competitive on Baby Park? Give some reason. Goodbye! If you want to run, you as I did all of that. I'm trying to bag, but go forward. I think I'm far back enough that maybe not after all these shortcuts. Okay. All right, we're already on lap five in a second. right time. I have to stay wide of the shortcut is crazy. Luck fest, Baby Park. I'd be surprised 11th. This is a terrible start. Okay, I think my dodged in first? That's how they won? Nice! Let me it up here. That Baby Park race, I was kind of forward, even though that's always a bad strategy. Very nice! Oh, I got bumped and lost my drift. but I couldn't quite get the item. I'm gonna go happened to me already. More coins, please. Great. What a disaster. Coins, nice. A single and it's a boomerang. Goodbye everyone. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Calm down, everybody. What Okay, got a shortcut here. I could get bumped, strategy. I just--okay, I even hit them. I just not possible. Nice, nice! First place can't we hold this because we can still potentially win. that was a really tough situation. It was we're bringing it back a little bit. I'm no half. Let's focus and try not to make driving a bit--a bit safer just 'cause I keep getting not doing quite right. Okay, there is a red shell quite get the mini turbo timing here. Haven't Why are you not taking the shortcut? Also, shell. What? The person in front of me--okay front of me was like a little bit not exactly and I'd be in second right now. Of course, Gonna go away from the star and then--are you Don't! Yeah, the green shells. That's my fault they're Japanese. Yeah, even that green shell hits me not hitting the trick right at the start, maker. I wouldn't have gotten trailed, I wouldn't mushroom. Nintendo, give me a mushroom, and then no item. Great. That trail is deadly. Gotten I think it's 'cause I'm a Female Villager, and Okay, I got a mushroom. Great! Okay, well, I feel like I feel very targeted right now. Almost have the shock. I think I hit him. Where's my I'm just gonna go. I didn't want to wait too this shortcut when you golden into that spot. I actually released A, I didn't get far back have a bomb. I'm not even threatening to you! You play it safe. Gonna take this shortcut right There's a blue shell. Oh, what the. Stay away! Oh, stay away. Yeah, fourth place. Wow. There's something really, really dumb hit me. Like, have gotten second or third. 'Shortcat you I pulled two shrooms first set and you rare Bone-Dry Dunes? I love it. Feel like no one right? It must just be that there's--oh, are you must just be lag. There's no way no one ever goes Wow, couldn't get those coins, and there's a red my drift. Okay, I'm still only on four coins. This exact same thing on lap one happened to me again. but I got some coins. Get this coin, nice. Gonna use all these right here and get a three times. And I fell off on my own. [laughs] not dodging that anyway, but I could have been Plant Cove. I'm actually good at this track. now. I actually--I have noticed I do really bad Japanese players are on. And like, I don't know of all their items. But now, like, I don't know. want any good spot at all. I'm going to go for the Oh, oh, nice! Okay, usually I get the lower good. Look, my lead is huge. Okay, I should not go at nine, 'cause I started in last place. Oh no! still in second. I just didn't want to get Nice. Okay, blue shell already came. Not a lot safe to throw these soon. Oh, okay, pretty good I'm gonna toss these at the next side. Oh, okay, that was almost so bad. Nice. Someone trail. No. No, you are so slow! There goes my hit. Nice try. I'll just take third. Okay, third chance to get first. It was just unfortunate my play there was really, really good, and at the This is not a great track for starting in third. but let's do this. Smart steering. All right, item. Unlucky. Oh, I'm still in the glider. No, plan right now is to grab coins. C, C right in at least I'm not getting red shelled. Give me get because of--oh, that's not C, that's someone Here we go. I'm just--this is such a struggle grab the double. Oh, okay, I should have thrown they lag on my screen, and I can grab the item. be a shock. I'm just gonna use it to gain me don't know, I thought there was. Come on, bullet, don't run into the red shells. I can make up spots that was so unexpected. I entered the glider little comeback. Okay, so it's the final race. I if I can get a good race here. But Los Angeles start in the back. Unless I can pull a mushroom brake drift. Oh, okay, I almost got trailed. Yeah, don't want to get trailed before I can get to the one person's up here with me, and they're have played it that risky. I don't need a double banana right here. I'm gonna go tight. [laughs] I double item box. Okay, I'm gonna trail this. please tell me that didn't hit. Yes, it didn't be a blue shell. There's always a blue shell but okay, this blooper's gonna make things tough. hit a wall. Pretty good. I'm gonna hold these. They have a super horn. Let's go! Goodbye! I was gonna stay down. I'm gonna go up. I was hoping for double red shell protection, 'cause I just feel like I'm playing well. people at the back dodged. I'm fine. Let's that's gonna make, getting first on only overall before that. Wow, we got top two! Nice spammier. That is absolutely true. Wow, we won, end. If I didn't get that and just got some third. This is why you have to focus all the way