You just want to- to step out of it business, the- the monstrosity of being if you have anxiety, if you have have any kind of mental health condition, Depression, frustration, anxiety, pain the process of becoming a stronger living is a sense of future. That there this and then the day after I've got to and I'm gonna tell you right now, it life is hard. That's what life is. With things you can realize is that you're has said well you lost an arm and a leg so you stopped and I was like depression is real. No now it doesn't mean that it's not gonna end. the stresses that we're dealt with right at the end of the tunnel. All that you you try to do just kicks you right back get yourself up. You don't even have to caused by you know, something traumatic brain. There is light at the end of the There are ups and downs and these face they're gonna do their best to take Of course you have to work, of course you needs you, your family needs you, life is Depression is not only normal, it's it allows you to reorder yourself at a I speak what's on my heart and I gave my mentioned some depression because I was and it hit me again this past winter so it was on my mind and it came up and generation of people probably aren't walked off the stage and they lined up for talking about mental health and here thought I was stepping out of line. No it not just this generation, it's- people are and the more we talk about it the easier themselves and get the help they need. Face them, fight them. Do not let them identify with your depression. always leads to spring and summer again, becomes fundamental quality of faith something good. Suicide is a permanent matter what you're going through right Stand up, dig in elevate you, let their demands and their face today turning you into a better person diamonds, all the diamonds in the world your hearts. You can do something. Life is but life is worth living. There's one thing day it would make an extraordinary issue you're struggling with and that is exercise every day is because what we physically move, your physiology changes time to rest key to world-class producing? Get outside life depends upon it because you know your body needs it, your mental health needs it and I feel like if you had heart problems and saw a cardiologist and know you're doing better and it but the most complicated organ in your suddenly there's a- we don't want to talk that's what people need to realize. You assure you sunlight above the clouds, you're just will lift and crisis has come to teach to move to your next level in the next depression will pass. It will go away place but for right now all that you make it through. Getting your heart rate connected, getting out of your house trapped. The man I am with you right now I know how to share is the result of my Doing that everyday, that physical push go to an aerobics class- class get with a good friend for two or three only moves your body which changes your environment which is one of the things a hard time doing and it also creates a in your life. Every time I experience a other end a different person, doing aware of what's happening and I'm opportunities as they present themselves of a spiral down depression because I'm happening when I'm upset and your feel like you're wasting your life What if those times were actually a those times were actually being you're actually producing not in the producing strengths, producing new new capabilities, producing new energies fear to love because when you go through you feel your fear and your pain? You you grow in love and bravery and what does that do to your power, what that do to the light that you bring into force that is undefeatable. a challenge continue to do those things that you evaluated yourself in the situation. stay busy. You are part of a larger communing with nature allows you not to stars of the universe and if you can friend you will use your pain as an you try something new and then you'll you down and parents will tell you that and you start believing the lies enough and no one's gonna want you and your life and you'll never ever- you know that you wish you had done, or wish that you could do and these steps take you closer. That voice saying you're not good good enough and all you need is one more know which step you're gonna take today. I want you to know that no matter where have sunk is not the end. This is not the end of of your life, I know it may be hard right it out, stay with me for a little while will pass and if you are committed to character, finding a greater meaning for can turn your life around and help The world right now is in the middle of It's estimated almost half the some stage throughout their life rather learn why we get down and then how we we create our own negative feelings and lives around and be a positive change depressed always comes down to the consistent beliefs we hold. Let me say depressed always comes down to the consistent beliefs we hold. The point so because there is an external factor They have lost something outside of that is out of their control. but no one teaches us how to live in a important our conscious and unconscious happiness not worth more than a job? Yes pay my bills, realize you will be 10 times more action in your life when you first and then get to the stuff of the world. consider to have it all in their life enough, a though,t a belief within them people that many were jealous of, many You must value yourself enough to take to engage in something that will ensure world. suddenly be perfect, the same life is strong, if your mind is at peace, your be very different. Your reaction will be happening to me with pity but with hope because your strength will become their that powerful. You can ditch the victim focus on how you will react next, how you Read, read all you can read to get your ensure you will be in a better position suffering from how you can ensure it soon you will be at the top of the you are more than worthy, you deserve to owe it to the world to be that positive will look to you and say he did it, she