A woman with special powers. A mutated female antagonist. Turn-based battles. Cinematic storytelling. The Welsh countryside. A xenophobic holy man? Obviously a dirty immigrant thief. A himbo? Wait a minute. This isn't Parasite Eve. No. No, it's not. This is Koudelka. That other PS1 Horror RPG. It's not remembered as much as Parasite Eve, and so let's turn back the clock to 1898 of Aberystwyth, Wales to experience Koudelka. Koudelka is a Japanese role-playing game for the PlayStation 1 in Japan in 1999. Koudelka was created by Hiroki Kikuta, who best known for scoring both Secret of Mana Seiken Densetsu 3, now known After his success as a composer, Kikuta wanted the rigid corporate hierarchy at Square prevented composer? Directing a video game? Preposterous. own games, and after a meeting with SNK, who he finally got his chance. So Kikuta left Square Sacnoth immediately began well technically four. Dive Alert, was an RPG developed for the Neo Geo Pocket likely an attempt to capitalize on Nintendo's Pokemon. Not the first developer to try to ape A tactical RPG called Faselei!, was also in development for the Neo Geo Koudelka was the only one of these games Kikuta director, and composer. While the handheld games publisher SNK by getting more games out on their he had some novel ideas that he wanted to try out He knew he wanted to break away from a lot of played out during his time at Square. Instead he wanted gothic horror set in the real of the late 1800s. He also wanted a real-time He scored on the genre and setting. The in Wales for research, studying the gathering references for Koudelka's art direction. of things though. The other developers on the were uneasy leaving behind the turn-based combat So the game ended up retaining for grid-based movement of characters and encounter that has some environmental On the story side of things, Kikuta had complete history as well as reading several novels, of the Rose by Umberto Eco. A tale of two monks investigate a murder. If you like creepy, complex Kikuta also envisioned Koudelka as the first in Koudelka Iasant and her descendants through the in 1900, two years after the events of the Exposition. The third game would take place in Rodmell. The fourth game was to take place Unfortunately, we never got any of these games. following the completion of Koudelka and left After that, Koudelka's world and setting were Matsuzo Machida, who would use it as Shadow Hearts, the spiritual successor to Upon release, Koudelka was met with mixed and storytelling, but found the combat and weren't so hot either. Reportedly, the game did ok didn't even release sales figures for I'm always intrigued by these games that critics play Koudelka right when it came out, but I ads in Electronic Gaming Monthly, my gaming So the game was quietly forgotten by most players. and interest was bolstered a bit by the Hearts series, but in the rare moments Koudelka always seems to be a second thought. it's never remembered before Square's some good reasons for that. But first, The game opens with a cutscene showing that all Wales really paid off. We follow a cloaked twilit Welsh countryside. The gloomy atmosphere, along with the beautiful choral vocals make a game on the PS1. Maybe one of the most Eventually, this cloaked figure Nemeton Monastery, the main setting of the game. Uh oh. Koudelka takes place over a single Wales, which seems to be a typo the actual Welsh town on the Northern coast if you wanna get technical about it, in Halloween as we know it, but instead Nos "the night before the first day of winter," But anyway, still a spooky date night and confined setting help to creating a more intimate and personal tale storytelling that mostly still dominates the wrong with that. I love saving the world. Just After arriving at the monastery and finding searches for another entry point and settles they throw back their hood, revealing the face scaling the walls and narrowly avoiding being her to lose the pendant around her neck, the upper floors and finds a wounded man the man raises his pistol, but not at Koudelka, This gives us an introduction to Koudelka's bit later. After she takes out the Hey, angel. I'm not gonna Smooth. Because he did save her, Koudelka decides who whines like a [__] during the process. Shut up. Keep it down. Ok, let's go. Stand up or I'll leave you here. What happened? It doesn't hurt anymore. I'm cured. Yeah? And? So I cured you. So what? Pretty much immediately, we're introduced this cool, distant personality. We'll but she maintains this tough, loner persona The man she's healed is Edward J. Plunkett. I know I look pretty shady. Understatement. He's impressed by Koudelka's powers, comparing just a spiritual medium. Edward entered about a rich man who converted the place into a he came out here to rob the place, but was attacked by a monster. Koudelka doesn't and is lost in thought about how she I came all this way to put a poor man's fear of anything. Then, this monster attacked me. I no doubt I'd be singing hymns I shouldn't have bought such Too bad you won't be hearing me sing those hymns. If you don't stop talking, I'll leave you here. My name is Koudelka, and I'm only going you want to get out of here alive, I Charmed. I'm sure. The voice acting is... not bad... in this one. Oh boy, are there. But it's fun. I'm a fan of I've heard much, much worse than this. Just watch Oh! There's no problem with my SeaFox Like a lot of Japanese survival horror games with here, so those hoping for a better sounding Koudelka and Edward team up to explore the filled with other monsters and ghosts. But when they stumble upon the caretakers, Ogden and a meal. Never mind that they both broke into the window, shot up the place, but you know, Koudelka isn't keen on trying any of the mind digging in though. Ogden reveals that to appease monsters and evil spirits by a You might not believe this, but Is that so? You saw it too? You mean, that monster's been around for a while? Well, we've been taking care of the but from about six months ago We see them more and more every month. And I used to be a sailor. I'm Big sailor boy over here, Koudelka and Edward regroup in the for not eating the food that was Yeah, if it weren't poisoned What? I said, if the soup weren't poisoned, Poisoned? No way. Just a little bit. I smelled some poisonous plant. What's happening? Well, I can tell you how you're going be able to move your body. If you don't I love how Koudelka just muses to herself while heal up Edward and the two continue their herb garden with an unconscious man inside, After taking out the monster, the man comes to, and Koudelka and Edward are introduced to James searching for something inside the monastery. rightfully, accuses Koudelka and Edward of the caretakers attempted to poison So nothing happened to you then? Of course not. Not until I Yeah? And we're the ones who took from me to expect any words of gratitude from you. I see. And I can tell from your your faith alone was not enough to It wasn't the kind of problem James seems to be lost in his own are about to leave him behind, but James So now that we've got the three have throughout the entire game, Combat features random encounters with turn-based grid with formation and positioning playing an preemptively placed in certain spots on the battle with Koudelka, Edward, and James each being As with most RPGs, you'll want your more spell casters or ranged fighters behind. The and targeting. You can't move past the and likewise, the enemies can't move past your tank out front, a physical attacking back line. Ranged and magic attacks This is really good, however, if your tank onto the line that the unconscious character character with reviving items or magic until battles that at first seem to be easy wins which makes keeping your front-row tougher fights. And I feel like this is where The three characters in your party and cleric classes just based on their build out your characters any way you see fit. you'll be given ability points that can be freely wanted Koudelka to be your tanky melee bruiser, even be your mage, since all characters can use However, you'll find that Edward's magical prowess and though Koudelka can be quite powerful match Edward's damage output, but again, the As for the stats themselves, strength max HP and physical damage resistance, dexterity agility increases your speed and turn rate in piety increases MP and magical resistance, and luck covers a nebulous list of benefits, defense, your chances of escape, and One thing you'll have to be aware of as you build stats. For example, strength and dexterity relatively evenly to make sure that your goes for intelligence and mind. You'll need of each other for your magic to actually I've found that if you let dexterity or mind intelligence stat, you'll face a higher game does tell you this if you look at the You're going to want to pump up everyone's is also going to need some piety to withstand most of the game's enemies like to use magic, even if he's bulked up with magic for most of the game with low piety. The too. Going from several hundred damage, And you might be thinking, wow, if I can this game must be a cakewalk then, right? Well, if but the problem with enemy magic specifically damage it often inflicts status effects You can only use items to cure status effects, too. There are no spells that will do it, taking some cues from the survival horror I mentioned that every character has access to pretty standard. There's a healing spell, as followed by attribute buffing spells tied to Everytime you cast a spell, that character's power can be increased to a maximum level of effect and how many enemies can be targeted Increase it and you can heal for more or such as revive and reflect, so you'll need to defeat that boss and progress Along with ability points--weapons, character's stats as well. You get a and there are different weapon types, as well as rifles and pistols. You Like magic, everytime you use a certain eventually level it up to a maximum of weapon type and increases the number of weapon in a given turn. Pretty sure the luck The problem with weapons though, there's a durability mechanic here, After a short while, I found a way around for most of the game and having Koudelka and had weapons equipped to increase their so no weapon breakage. But if you don't think or interesting, then you're going to have to repairing them either, once they're broken Despite me finding a way around it, I still of the opinion that durability can work in but in Koudelka it's really not either weapons and the limited use, it's just really the player a lot of freedom in how they Your other equipment, the armor and accessories, you're constantly boosting your luck stat to doesn't mention but seems to be true, as I got way boosting my luck stat throughout, as opposed to wasn't increasing that stat. Must be hidden under Armor, specifically, is never actually found gained through drops from random battles. I only so Edward went through the whole game armor-less. have been nice to get some armor on him and There are also special equipment that can only on the game clock while playing, such 3 hours 33 minutes and 33 seconds, and so on, worth. A couple of these items can break without any of them. For the completionists Speaking of saving, there are fountains and but they'll need to be purified before you boss. So no saves before bosses. This is only temporary saves. Certain screens will have the if you press the menu button while the room name There's only one slot for these, as opposed to your previous temporary save. Still, there are way than there are main ones,so I made sure to Oh yeah, you also have the limited inventory a separate screen so have fun. Luckily, items can you need to actually complete the game that can is a way to get another one toward the end of you won't know that and can screw yourself into a These things are all minor annoyances that But I think the thing that will really drive paced. Not overall. On the macro level of areas the game is very well-paced, but the moment require a lot of patience. Load times battle, and cutscene transitions. Then the every movement and attack animation of Lots of 3D role-playing games suffered pacing in the late 90s and early 2000s. they wanted to slather battles in layers it looked impressive when it was done well, but In Koudelka, you see every step a character Even for magic, there's a warm-up period after later, the character will actually cast the upwards of 3 to 5 minutes to complete. And one game took me over 35 minutes, and we'll The thing is, Koudelka's not a long game, you could complete a first playthrough than half of that time is spent in combat. because I broke up my footage and color-coded My entire playthrough was 12 hours and 51 minutes, sequences took up an hour and 50 minutes. almost exactly half the playtime. This and mostly happened during boss fights. And look It took over an hour with deaths, and when I And it's not even the actual length of these RPGs, Shining Force, Fire Emblem, Tactics Ogre. issue. It's just the amount of waiting. If I wager half of the battle time is spent watching Koudelka is a game that would greatly benefit because I like the character and enemy are fantastic, and there's a huge variety Uhhh, to fight. I also like the formation increases and character builds, but it just takes On the exploration side of things, Koudelka is a creepy estate, find items lying around, even to room collecting items and solving puzzles. but you'll need to thoroughly explore to make without first seeing the hint, even if you can figure out the correct solution. a lot of the time the puzzles will It's weird. Luckily, the areas you explore look gorgeous. the artists to really go all out on these full of detail. Every screen in this game is I never really got lost. There's a map, but I well, with shortcuts leading back to earlier areas During one point near the end of to return to a place I hadn't been to since but when I realized how easy it was to get back it felt really satisfying. This is one element of As for the 3D elements of the visuals, I was again, a smaller-scale game, so character models Some of the side characters can look a bit uncanny the game. The CG models of the caretakers, of the characters from The Dark Eye. There's I've already talked about the voice acting, and it's fine. There are some stand outs side character who the party meets about halfway only has one voice acting credit and it's this My name is Roger Bacon, and I'm Hey, I've been around for 20 years and I've yet I see. Well, I've been around for over 600 years, and I've seen plenty of abnormal Despite its dreary setting, the game helped along by this guy, and the constant What do you mean we can't get Why don't you ask these guys? Dammit. Did you see that? Someone's in here. Will you shut up and get us out of here? How hard can it be for thieves like you to Try saying that in the East Den, holy man. Your severed head would hit the Then there's the music, composed by Kikuta guy who did Secret of Mana and Trials of The battle theme was also a treat And there are some quieter pieces that really The sound design is also incredible. creaks and screams and shouts, the wind on edge. It's not the same as a survival enemy could be waiting around the next corner, As Koudelka, Edward, and James continue they take a breather to assess off monologuing for a minute. Then Edward, which James doesn't appreciate due And who gave you the right to Poetry should delve into the depths others. It should inspire the soul as If they have the power to do I'd choose anyone. Even that dear Blasphemous! Pagan. How dare To seek help from someone you've Especially when people are dying from They're all filthy and immoral Whoa, James. These kinds of philosophical and often, and it's a strong point of contention characters have quite a bit of tension between great to have RPGs where you're questing with from different walks of life and with different really interesting to me. And despite some shaky The party's bickering is brought to an end by That doesn't sound like a demonic spirit to me. The noise is coming from that building over there. The poison didn't kill us, so now Don't be ridiculous. Why don't you ask the bullets You idiots! As they attempt to make their way to the they stumble upon an old prison where notes that took place here over a hundred is affected by the suffering of the spirits. She body to hear what it has to say. She also monastery in the first place is because she heard So a spirit possesses her, and we get the Kill them. They cut off my fingers. They crushed They took everything from me. They My eyes! My ears! They're burned! Help! Help! This leads to a confrontation with the D'Lota who attempts to lead Edward Edward! You should have just died before. What a brat. The trio stumble across more and more dead bodies, some doppelgangers of themselves, yeah, you know to break things up. Edward speculates that the victims they've found, but James can't believe monastery could ever do something like that. He They're all liars and thieves anyway. This is prison or no. Why all those liars and How can you say a thing like that? I am not a priest. I am a bishop. Look, I'm not saying that ok? But that doesn't mean that You saw that old couple. They're so well Good manners? Yes. Think about it. Why would they I don't know. You think they'd at least bury the bodies. Possibly. Anyway! I have this strange feeling we're You'd better keep your mouths Further into the underground area these and Edward catches a glimpse of a Finding themselves inside one of the prison they get another visit from Charlotte who reveals My poor, little angel. Poor little angel? Me? Save your pity for Not true. I don't know what but I know that your mother My mother? I don't know her face, her nothing. You're telling me that means nothing? no one ever loved me. And I Charlotte sends a ghost minion to deal ensuing brawl destroys one of the prison This is about as good a time as any to to experience Koudelka on your own, skip to chapter select. There's a lot more to uncover origin of all these monsters and spirits, as well if you'd rather have me spoil the entire After escaping from the prison, the mysterious crush the party with a chandelier. And We better hold onto that. You never know when The party encounters the thief Alias who's the one is also the fight I mentioned earlier where You have to destroy these boxes before attacks. It's pretty lazily implemented, Afterwards, our trio of heroes Where you from? Hamburg? Not that it really Whoa, James. Come on, man. Probably infected with cholera Goddamn dude. They try to figure out if he's the one but Alias insists that it Usually they use an ax when they here unarmed. They're stupid. They get caught Unbelievable. I'm telling you. The lucky ones die on the first the night, clutching their bellies. I find their fingers through their hearts. Right Look, take it or leave it, but I'm they're Satan incarnate. I may look shady but they look on the outside, the colder and Yeah. Good assessment for a thief. I love how Koudelka and Edward laugh at that turn though as the party tries to decide what Still. He did try to kill us. For that. What did you do that for? Oh now, suddenly James cares. If our lives cease being threatened, then it's But if we go on letting him attack us, Which would you like to bet on. Coldblooded. Later on, they find a bunch of Koudelka recognizes as the Princess In an old printing press room, named Elaine and a man proposing this is the spirit of the woman who Just a couple rooms away, the party finds an archive of old texts and James but he can't find it. Edward demands that James Just cut the charade, and tell us what's going on. I do not like this. We all have our reasons. Why don't you sing us a song there, piano man? James stays tight-lipped. For now. Then, the three Is that just a mummy? Cross your fingers. That was disappointing. Holy savior! The secret of the Formors. Talk about tonal whiplash. The mummy's mention of the Emigre Document peaks was sent by the Vatican to recover this document, Not many people could steal a thing like that from Or have enough money. According to our secret who purchased this monastery bribed someone within Wealthy gentleman? Yes. Patrick Hayworth. This is our first mention of Patrick Hayworth, who an interest in mysticism, and James reveals of resurrection, though James insists it's to convince Patrick to return the According to the caretakers, he lives They said that? Yes, they're terrified. With all the crazy even seen Patrick yet they feel indebted to him. Sp that's your story? I don't know. One more After making their way to a chapel, the party is actually a powerful, optional boss that can be reward for killing this boss other than bragging collection, it's the only other thing that The gargoyle grows stronger as your party does, At this moment, Koudelka is so the only choice is to run. With Koudelka but her magic should be strong against most enemies you'll encounter You can also find Koudelka's pendant in this courtyard. Make sure you what happens when you don't Koudelka finds herself in an execution chamber she's strapped to a table while Ogden, the old ax nearby. Turns out, Ogden was the captain of the Thames. He also mentions the name "Elaine," All of the sudden, there was a cold ship. fast. I was faultless. Elaine. Poor, poor Hey, you! You! Hey! How's that? Just a You're crazy! Shut up! Honey, let's stop this now. It's time to stop. It's ok. It's over. I'm sorry. Bessy explains that Ogden was overcome with guilt who came to the monastery with her husband, into the manor where Patricka and Elaine lived We should stop this conversation now. My husband is waiting. He can Jesus christ. After escaping her bindings, Koudelka finds a the other side. They agree to meet back in there should be an underground passage Koudelka. Yeah? Don't get killed. Same to you. Koudelka, ever the badass. After navigating her way back above where she finds Charlotte's grave, but she also finds the grave of Saint pray at the saint's grave, the mummy And you are? Where are my manners? Hello. My name is Roger A monk? And I thought you were a mummy. Yes, you are quite right in your may be more pleasant to look at than a time when I was hailed as the foremost and out of fashion with the passage of You are a strange man. That's I have given up being a man many hundreds of years answer questions concerning my existence, because So Roger Bacon has been in that coffin for man, incredible. Roger has opened allowing her easy access back into the she meets up with Edward and James again. She and mentions the names Elaine and Patrick to mentioned earlier that he was searching for any robber that entered the grounds as a form James explains how he and We were both studying chemistry and that same time we began competing Elaine. And we had a falling out. Omnia vincit amor. But love does not conquer all. I soon and inheritance money necessary to properly care I gave up my suit and made way for church and left the secular world behind. the Vatican made me a bishop and in But it's been so hard to distance myself from not seen them for twenty years, I wished them it hadn't been for this, I wouldn't have That's right. Patrick. How can this take care of Elaine and make her Being a witness to the gory aftermath, I have a hard time believing that the Koudelka is under the impression that the than just simple revenge, and that there's Continuing onward, there's a bit an upcoming encounter. We need to deal so we could fight her or we could return to a room a hint for how to open it in a different area box and find a series of letters from Sophia Sophia was the daughter of a duke in Sweden. Christopher, the son of an Artillery Inspector their childhood, Sophia was arranged to marry Phillip came back into her life and Charlotte came along. She had to send she felt the Nemeton Monastery in Wales would be part of all this is Charlotte mentions that from her mother was written to Charlotte on If you find and read these letters and pray Charlotte, instead of fighting her, you'll accept that her mother loved her, even years abandonment throughout her short life, but To level out all of the heavy [__] we've been Roger Bacon's secret library in the manor attached James knows of Roger Bacon, but doesn't monk from the 13th century. When though, everyone drops the argument of Roger explains that he was the one who hand copied and he details how the document explains the back to life. Roger himself is a result Though I cannot perform the same on others, yes But I have not been able to escape the roots My body is not immune to change as Exploring the manor, the party finds a portrait the painting, and Elaine explains how Patrick used With Ogden's assistance and the a resurrection ceremony in this monastery, but-- But something went wrong, didn't it? He only resurrected my physical still doomed to roaming the universe, terrifying thing is that my body was So unlike Roger Bacon, who at least succeeded Patrick wasn't skilled enough Later, we'll find Patrick's research notes and Bessy kill intruders so he could then Everyone was kind of acting out of grief like the ones who murdered Elaine, so He also writes about getting a specially-ordered homeless people that he's drugged Elaine begs James to burn her body and put an end Wait. Elaine. God. Cursed. What a cruel world. I gave everything have no meaning in my life. Dammit! What have You can't say that James' voice After finding Patrick's research notes and showing ancients resurrected the dead to use their bodies had no need for their souls. This doesn't explain asks about that. Instead, James is more concerned Roger says they'll need the arm of Daniel Scoteus life that has sprung up around the bell tower carrying around that crusty old thing since On the way to the entrance of the tower, the and oh my god, this is the most annoying fight literally, at the back of the battlefield and because it has some powerful physical attacks, so unless you've really beefed up Now, this is essentially a gimmick Apostle is moving to know when to attack. If from physical attacks and will absorb magic all of your attacks will miss. You need his movements are very small and it's hard his phases change abruptly. Since he absorbs unless your agility stat is through the roof, and you could end up healing the boss. So I just I tried equipping other ranged weapons on to do any damage, even in the phases where the if the boss hadn't had so much HP. I figured out but then it just took so long to whittle down entire game. There are definitely strategies but again, unless you've played then you're just going to have to suffer The entrance to the bell tower he could just make some nitroglycerin, how many times in my life have I thought There's a vat of acid they could use as one the prison area, which is near the beginning we've unlocked so many shortcuts, it's a In Patrick's lab, James spends some Edward and Koudelka get drunk. What follows lasting over nine minutes, but it's also one scene. Fans will know what I'm talking about. I but instead, I'll go over what Edward and Basically, they each give an account of their people that they are in the present. But it's well written the dialogue is that really really good in this scene. They should have Koudelka tells Edward she's a gypsy themselves a true gypsy if they're born legend goes. She also reveals her gypsy name, Edward talks about how his father was a strict man When he was a child, Edward was a dreamer, but his father believed such things were You know I think I was probably born too late? to be done had already been done. The the jungles had been explored. There was jungles for me to cut my way through. I guess Edward goes on to say that he's jealous of lifestyle. And that's where the lightheartedness Koudelka, I envy you. You have blessed with. And being born a gypsy, And who gave you the right to Do you have any idea how I was raised? Ha. You make me laugh. Adventures? Please. Do you have any idea how much pain My father died when I was only a place, and ending of my father's life. Imagine Hm. No, I was cursed as a child. Being And my mother? She was so frightened she tried to kill me with her very hands. The gypsy elders got together and decided to you have any idea how a nine-year-old child Treasures! You must be joking! Have you Did you ever sell your body seeking I used to be just like Charlotte. has ever loved me.' Those words cut straight Just like her, I wished that everybody would But you see, Charlotte has made her peace. Me? I'm still alive, and still all alone. Ugh. This scene is so heart wrenching. And I Koudelka, and she just claps back with this I am not as free as you make me out to be. I am a poor, dirty, ignorant woman who threw But you see? Even someone like me can do good. Because with my powers, I can help ease the pain of others. That's when I feel I just want my life to have some meaning. I just want someone to tell me they need me. And you... No way, would you ever understand. God. Oh, hey, the nitroglycerin's ready. In the chapel, Koudelka, Edward, and and after tossing Daniel's arm in the cauldron The last order of business is to climb the bell one of which has the body of Patrick the group finds a flower that who chases the group up the stairs to the twice along the way and in each battle she's Finally, at the top, you face her final the game. It's an incredibly difficult fight. attacks too, so it's extremely tough to which instead of resulting in a game over, That's right, losing to the final boss is means that James will sacrifice himself and he and her spirit seem to go off to heaven. Let's go home, James. Let's go home. I No! Flames are coming this way. Don't be silly. There must be something we can do. Whoa, hey now. We'll be fine. Trust me. I shouldn't have trusted him! But yeah, somehow they survived that plummet, and turns out Koudelka and Edward spent part ways. But not before Koudelka reveals is "treasure." Koudelka and Roger Bacon stand Is it ok, child, for you not to follow him? Yeah, it's ok. I have a feeling that But what happens if you defeat Elaine? In this ending, Elaine's body falls into the doesn't explode. Edward and Koudelka just lay the three of them musing over what they just There's also one more ending, and this happens courtyard after being attacked by the gargoyle. blasts the party with an attack, and Without the pendant, though. Amazing. The canon ending is actually the one where and Edward spend the night together, do the up the events of Shadow Hearts, which That's Koudelka. Overall I enjoyed the story about the slow-pacing of the battles, I did liked using AP to build my characters. If you've of the boss fights were unnecessarily drawn The tension and conflicts between the main backstories and true intentions made really enjoyed the level design and how well Koudelka does not deserve to a remaster with some quality of life could greatly increase the enjoyability of this an RPG and its multiple endings, hidden items, Unfortunately, we didn't get Kikuta's original but we did get Shadow Hearts, which is At least the first two games. And I'll For now though, I'll bid a fond farewell to If you liked this video, you know what to a loser everytime I say that, but it seems I want to thank the Dungeon channel on Patreon and through YouTube and they also voted for the next game Night 2. I did the first game last year, If you really like what I do and want to you can do so by clicking the Patreon link button on this video page to become a YouTube read exclusive posts from me, vote and I've got a couple of other things in If you support with $5 or more each month, you get your name read out loud at the end As well as these Dungeon Connoisseurs: Thank you all for your support. And Echo Night 2. Until then. Koudelka. Check it out. Dungeon Chill. Out.