Dwarf Fortress already has more than two decades creators, Tarn and Zach Adams, they'll continue the rest of their lives. To get a clear we have to go all the way back to the eighties, County, Washington, Tarn aka Toady One and from a very young age. Their father, Dan, worked crunch data and run sewage plants. He supplied even taught his sons the rudimentary basics of become even more important in the future. "I was didn't even know what was going on. I remember and they set up the dance moves by pressing When Tarn was six, his father taught him how move across the screen. The brothers eventually and they noticed it offered full access to the it inspired them to develop their very first about 400 projects in BASIC, ranging from Tarn's text-based assassin game. From a young age, J.R.R. Tolkien. The two also downloaded many indie were basically download servers that predated the dates back to 1984. Hack, along with Rogue, Larn helped to popularize roguelikes at the time, "We liked that you could choke to death on on something poisonous you were carrying largely inspirational for Dwarf Fortress, die and then you have in your subsequent character, more than a score or whatever, directly to Dwarf Fortress persistent this idea that you can kind of churn Around the time Tarn and Zach were 12 and their very first fantasy game together called described it as basically a D&amp;D game where other creatures. Curious details and game like your character having an IQ score that got head. It was meant to be just another project a couple of years later (1993), when Tarn was in Dragslay was revisited. Programming the game it bigger and add things like a world keeping track of goblin populations. They but it would eventually evolve and play an Programming has always been Tarn's escape. He or talk to others, instead he was very withdrawn with. Even then, he didn't care about socializing computer. There's one close friend he made in to today. During their childhood, the brothers had but eventually found their way back to Kitsap 20. This experience brought them closer together At this point in his life, Tarn didn't video game projects. Not being interested he picked math instead and went to the University Ancient History in the same university, in Seattle. The summer before Tarn went to grad They changed the title to Slaves to Armok: God who was originally named after a variable arms you have left. For now, it remained a featured roughly the same combat system as the as well as persistent enemy groups, meaning This version of the fantasy game was very having more ambitious ideas. They kept the the course of development the brothers added many models, like the possibility to remove the enemy's as to develop an option where the player could leg hairs were, or discover the melting point is the first piece of the Dwarf Fortress puzzle. for their indie studio Bay 12 Games and used it the site also lets you access the official Even though Armok was their main focus for the to work on side projects whenever he had a needing only a couple of days of work to are probably Liberal Crime Squad and WWI Medic. In Mutant Miner and this is the second piece of the gameplay and was loosely inspired by Miner VGA to search for minerals and fight monsters. bring it back to one of the buildings at arms and other mutations to speed Tarn eventually tried adding extra the game started to experience lots of lag. This to prevent all the slowdown and swap the one he came up with a more interesting gameplay loop. or a fortress if you will, but once the player explore the ruins of your fortress. This section roguelike where the player has to collect goblets, during the previous phase and bring the treasure your high score. He called up Zach, who moved back the idea over the next three days. It was this The brothers started development in take about two months of work, just in holidays. Little did they know it was the longest development journeys in video game they were able to implement features at a very too much time away from their main project, temporarily halted in November so they could Fast forward to 2004 when Tarn and Zach's 3D graphics were slowing them down too much, having to be delayed. So, the brothers made dwarf game. Since early prototypes worked on it to be a sequel to the 3D game. For kicks, God of Blood II: Dwarf Fortress'. After this along with a trailer and screenshots started to grow more exponentially. People especially knowing that the brothers wouldn't Dwarf Fortress' landscapes are made entirely using the original IBM PC. It's more commonly referred consisting of 128 characters, or code points or spades, blue tilde symbols display water, and While many players prefer this almost matrix the character set with actual graphics, allowing often used to request updates like more modern a less confusing keyboard shortcut system, and and quick bug fixes, Tarn had stated that these "It felt like adding graphics would given our failure in the earlier 3-D attempt with done a good job adding graphics though, and it a bit different from doing it in-house. Part many people are we trying to serve? In what way? people? Or is it better to serve a million with you have to work on getting appearances up?" the brothers followed their gut feeling and Tarn and Zach made for the perfect team during programming away, Zach worked on the narrative its atmosphere, informed by his background in skin of their conquered enemies from towers, Zach recommended. When Tarn runs into issues, Dwarf Fortress was making good progress and Tarn When he graduated he was named best math major. got into 15 and eventually chose one at Stanford geometric measure theory and this landed Texas A&amp;M University. It's a career path that quickly discover that the future he envisioned wasn't what he really wanted. Juggling between proved much more difficult than he imagined. pressure of academia, Tarn's mental health began In order to do his postdoc work properly, he felt This however was unimaginable to Tarn and right be making games for a living or doing nothing. that much he knew. Tarn describes it as a very after a year of working at Texas A&amp;M, Tarn told an emotional conversation, the university offered a teaching position for a single year instead. 50.000 dollars. Hearing this was a huge relief money would give him a fighting chance of In the meantime the brothers continued as possible. At this point, Dwarf Fortress and was starting to resemble how people differences. The entire map was still randomly was no way to dig underground or climb walls or players were given a wagon with seven dwarfs the screen. You would always encounter a river, players were still able to build and craft items There was even a sort of endgame present in the at the far right of the map. Once you started chance your fortress would be lost soon and The decision to choose dwarves as as it seemed like an obvious choice to Tarn and their personalities consisted of pretty relationships, current happiness, total stress the brothers wanted each dwarf to have their for example. Therefore, more specific attributes artistic interests, curiosity, depression, few. In total there's about 50 personality facets, and 120 different emotions. These are then divided family" and "during play" and all of them combined translates to much more interesting gameplay take in pets and go crazy if a goblin kills those them. Of course, this is all determined before make sure dwarves can evolve and change if Believe it or not, the dwarves' physical personalities. Dwarf Fortress simulates muscles, combat can get pretty violent and instead of a even teeth, something that's directly inspired by detailed combat systems were also partially The two developers have also stated how games Moria and many more roguelikes inspired Tarn expected that after his year at Texas on his savings and eventually be forced to get on August 8th 2006, the game's first alpha on April 17th 2006 to be exact, a forum member if the website could get a Paypal button. Once earned money from one of their games. Later on, it easier for fans to donate a monthly sum. In the which was enough to cover the Bay 12 Once the alpha version was available to on different websites and blogs, causing word to over the course of the next year. In 2007, after working full-time on Dwarf Fortress, a dream always easy. "If the laptop broke during a given whole full-time thing and we were just lucky account skim zero a couple times. I never did the mortgage, first of all, we haven't gone into While things were tough financially, Tarn was where he was able to support himself on a small expenses and the rest went to Zach for his help fans, the project was self-sustaining, making it helping the brothers financially, the growing were on the right track. With a bigger fanbase, the site's forum, as it was their only form of all, this was well before the existence of social every single day, to make sure the forum's not topic. At a certain point, the two developers that donated money. These were either stories Zach and colored by Tarn, adding even more to the With his new job as full-time indie developer, house before finding his own place closeby his older brother Zach couldn't say the same. warehouse and later at a Naval shipyard. He wanted to be there for him. It was also a good Fortress again. Zach has said that once Dwarf The brother's maintain a list of about 2,600 version 1.0. Tarn admitted however that not since that would probably mean he won't be able in his lifetime. Zach and Tarn always have five to choosing the ones that make the most with interconnecting themes and logic helping 'I'm doing Dwarf Fortress political intrigue customs, status, economics of any kind, and don't territories and things well enough to do that Tarn draws bubble graphs, Venn diagrams, and their connections, leading to stacks of pages, likes the notion of being able to hold the game helps Tarn to maintain focus and stay motivated. coders have to perfect their work before release, completely shift focus when necessary. Since at once, the brothers simply rotate into the hitting a wall. This gives them time to come Most of the time, Dwarf Fortress is all Tarn can follows: he wakes up around 3 p.m. and proceeds bed around 6 a.m. 100-hour work weeks are common like work to him. "I don't have, like, a life or write Dwarf Fortress? That's not bad. The 100-hour It's, like, 80:20 or something, and the 20 is side that I spend time on, 3-4 hours in the evening. a laptop on your lap, writing a myth generator During an interview with New York Times magazine, Tarn admitted he's also not that interested his passion project and he feels kids might as Tarn got older, his interest in finding a not anticipating it anymore. For many years, his but he sadly passed away in June 2022. Tarn As mentioned before, Dwarf Fortress used to y- axis. After a while, Tarn and Zach felt architecture and 3D fluid simulations. implement something like that within a world into such a big challenge. At least until they players are able to build bridges to cross control water flow. However, when the brothers messy and complicated because of the lack of 3D releasing the initial alpha version, they began One thing the brothers immediately discovered overhauled so that rivers and chasms filled with interesting things to find the main downside to this, is that it now objective of going from left to right to discover had now transformed into something in any direction, not knowing what they the upside of having total freedom to build more interesting world overall with endless Needless to say, this major update who called it one of the most mind-numbing now have to take details such as fluid but he had to go back to all the function and see how a z-axis could fit in. This new even though on the surface it visually still By now, the gameplay loop looked more like you eventually lose, the fort gets added adventure mode, lose, it gets added to the part of the experience and Tarn even describes It's why Dwarf Fortress' motto is "losing is was that when a player loses, their impact in the next playthrough. An example would be bumping into an old friend or enemy you made Although the art style is simply made generating a world requires quite a lot of bit during the process, thanks to Tarn's highly detailed landscapes. He and Zach from geologically accurate ore deposits to river narrative and historical texts constructed in the list goes on. These elements also and the player's fortress and the surrounding spanning over hundreds of years. The story beforehand, but generated in the moment by all can make for funny situations and accidents, "We didn't know that carp were going to eat and roughly the same size as dwarves, so that fan-favorite mishap was the drunk cat bug. when sprucing up venomous creatures, dead especially around places with alcohol. They causing them to ultimately die. He couldn't figure to find out what was going wrong. As it turned to get on cats' paws from walking on spilled themselves clean and after doing so, caused Unfortunately for the cats, one number was off meaning the small creatures would ingest large symptoms of alcohol poisoning, which was added In-game incidents like this provide insight into brains, that fuel the mind-boggling amount of these elements construct one of the most complex as much a story generator as a fortress management fact: while the brothers mostly use the internet there was one time they couldn't find the density Fortress fan ordered the cactus wood, determined and informed the indie developers about the it's also easily searchable on the internet and The brothers grew up playing computer games journeys in detail, as well as competing with they aimed to create an experience that would while also providing a way to earn a high score. mode. It lets players explore the records of their and diaries that the player can read through, written by one of your dwarves. All of these major influence for this mode was the game over it details how the player died and preserves Before working on Dwarf Fortress, the brothers in an earlier side project called Fantasy environments the player had to choose between, opponent. After the player died, they could like how many dragons you killed In Dwarf Fortress' Legends mode, they took it create grand narrative arcs in their own fantasy was how fans started producing entire animated year of the game's existence, Something Awful creating an infamous story called Boatmurdered. then send the file to a next player, and so on, Boatmurdered was featured across several gaming a popular blog, which alerted many It's no coincidence that stories like this of the game's detailed variables are a result up with what elements go in the game, Zach the brothers isolate all the elements that possible in the first place. These then get possible for Dwarf Fortress to generate similar the brothers even share these breakdowns of Dwarf Fortress was made with a using a free version of Microsoft Visual Tarn basically cobbled together his own engine game to macOS and Linux. Tarn prefers using his like Unity for instance, though he does accomplish anything other than text graphics. The game has been in development for so long code he hasn't seen in years, specifically when code can cause unforeseen problems, requiring Tarn intended. For instance, if teleportation were diplomacy, espionage, and many other systems, People from the Dwarf Fortress community have him to clean it up where necessary. However, code himself and have full control over what goes is that Tarn worries he would end up more he'd never want as he loves programming too much. decided to not turn Dwarf Fortress into an and companies out there that would copy the code While having no desire to be project managers, informed on their progress. Aside from regular to 80 questions every month and does his best to of thousands of threads on there now and I make and the discussion if it's something that and I've read every one. Most suggestions can't we already have a plate that's full. There's only give us a lot of feedback. It's great having The community also plays an important part the creation of mods. Fans provide mods that add more items and creatures, fix vital bugs full support of Tarn and Zach. The community also the two developers even consult the wiki also organize meet-ups where they wear homemade the game. Tarn and Zach occasionally even join Back in 2011, Tarn, now 33 years old, though he never disclosed the name of the prefers working with just his brother and not Another company offered Tarn and Zach a 300.000 but they felt this amount would not compare to the The following year, important features like and more traps were added to the game, as were As with every new version update, donations making it viable for Bay 12 to keep relying on donations would also momentarily increase. In month. That amount is of course before taxes and the game's active player base kept growing as well 100,000 times a month. Despite that, in 2015, dollars. This motivated Bay 12 Games to set up a again. Thankfully, this worked and allowed After a decade since the original symbolizing they were 42% into finishing version a myth generator and magic system, which would and experience their own stories. "I haven't generation before. It's exciting. It's like a separate project. And then it just becomes machine. They're all separate games in a to grow and you have a common framework, but Procedural myth generation would allow heaven or hell and anything in between. The be one of the most difficult and impactful changes time to implement. Tarn and Zach have gone on the game, pitch it on the ground, and put it back The brothers love the idea of implementing magical game progresses, an idea that's taken straight do more than just create a set of spells depending making deals with spirits and otherworldly beings, them. Dwarves could chop down the wrong tree, would be able to interact with them, with many Bay 12 plans on adding tools for players to edit mean you could play god, shaping the world and of being able to recreate the world of Westoros Sadly, finishing the magic system and myth indie developer and publisher Kitfox Games, Tarn and Zach had always strived to stay away from order to maintain their freedom as developers, a "This is primarily because the healthcare and it ended up costing a lot of money, and with their insurance. But if the same thing Bay 12 would not exist. And so, that was the exposing the game to a wider audience that we The illness Zach had to get treated was skin it grew back within a matter of months and surgery for his face. Unfortunately, cancer have been dealing with the disease themselves expensive medication for many years to treat his health related news with their fans, seeing but Zach opened up about it during a announcement. With Tarn and Zach now being in increasingly worried about their health and the Before signing a deal with Kitfox, other indie Fortress, but Tarn and Zach needed someone that also be in charge of things like hiring extra able to focus solely on development. Tanya X. were more than willing to take on all those was to create a commercial version that could down with the team at Kitfox and thought, "What &quot;So basically the whole process of commercializing all of the things that were making people bounce graphics are actually very bad for some people. was no mouse input at all. No tutorials to Fortress and then I also have the wiki on another but that's not a good ad for the game. So we of certain menus, completely rewrote other menus, in certain cases. This was just a process of Their plan was to release it in a couple of design decisions. For instance, developing 3D settled on a top down 2D pixel art aesthetic Patrick Martin "Meph" Schroeder, mostly known to create pixel art of every single element. create a fully-produced premium soundtrack. Before page stated that 'time is subjective', a reference a statement that the game would be released when ease, they also stated the classic version of the receive the same updates as the premium version. of dedicated teamwork, Dwarf Fortress's premium Tarn, the response to the commercial version has minority on the official forum that claim the though, the community was very excited about first sales numbers came in. Kitfox had estimated months' time, instead selling that amount within almost half a million copies, blowing away all insurance problem, the main reason for doing and Zach thanked their fans. &quot;Dwarf Fortress illusion without you. None of this was possible us out. Along these amazing 20 years, by far the To help manage the existing community and the for the first time thanks to the premium release, surprisingly, a second programmer from with the username 'Putnam', was also hired. since it was the first time someone other than code. It's a big adjustment for Tarn. Even though outreach, Tarn still has to manage people he never wanted to become project manager Ultimately, they're happy more people are now. Their current goal is to keep the operation they have. In the past, Tarn has mentioned that he and Zach would just continue improving the the brothers have years worth of features with the enormously complex magic and Though the brothers are now millionaires, latest developments. While Zach has mentioned Tarn admitted he hasn't had much time to think also for 20 years. So when you divide that by 20, range. Which is still pretty high, obviously. out what the heck's going on there. I don't really thinking about dwarf stuff. We don't have plans to right? It's just the same game. So this tail that's it. We have to be responsible with what