Here it is, imitated all over the world, unparalleled, classic... the best of all. Flavia Diamante cooks us the most traditional orthodox and tasty carbonara. All the tricks and secrets for making spaghetti carbonara like a king. Including how to pasteurize the egg yolks to avoid making a nice omelette and for lovers of culinary history our theory on the origin of the dish. There are five ingredients in carbonara, no more, no less and you can see them all here: Pepper, bacon, eggs or rather egg yolks, pecorino romano and pasta; spaghetti, tonnarelli... Here if you want you can vary without breaking the hearts of the Romans. the dish is quick to cook and eat. the pepper should be freshly ground and toasted. we roast it because the heat releases the essential oils from the pepper and creates new nuances of flavor through roasting. think of coffee with cocoa... same story. Be careful when toasting not to overdo it. As soon as you smell the pungent smell it's [Music] ready. ready will be set aside for [Music] later. Here we make the bacon in strips or cubes if you prefer, in any case bacon and not bacon. the bacon has much more fat, a different flavour. maybe once upon a time there was a certain flexibility between bacon and bacon. Let's say that after the 80s when this recipe was basically institutionalized, bacon on carbonara became blasphemous. You put pecorino on the carbonara, not parmesan. Not pecorino and parmesan. pecorino and that's it. semi-seasoned pecorino romano if possible, the same one used for Cacio e Pepe, same product. let's scratch it until it melts [Music] better. this too ready aside we have arrived at the eggs and as with bacon versus bacon the question that many amateurs ask is: whole egg or yolk? just yolks without mincing words. one egg yolk per person or per pound of pasta. at most one more. Among other things, the white of the egg coagulates before the yellow. it's true that &quot;conalbumin&quot; makes the cream more velvety. But here on the plate we'll show you how to make a cream of egg yolks and pecorino which is as smooth as Mr Spalletti's (bald) head. and here the similarities end Because ours will also be pasteurized [Music]. spaghetti... Flavia, let's hurry, we're hungry! while the pasta is three-quarters cooked in the pan, fry the bacon in its fat. no oil added the fat all comes from the [Music] bacon. And how do we want this pillow? we want it crunchy on the outside and juicy on the inside. Medium flame 3 minutes it's ready [Music] Look how beautiful [Music] [Music] [Music] [Applause] [Music] and in this fat we will finish our [Music] [Music] carbonara. oh oh [Music] [Music] oh Ah Flavia Don't do it! no! Well, let's remove the bacon from the pan and from Flavia's mouth... in the meantime, let's pasteurize the egg yolks. bain marie over the pot with the pasta. that's all. Let's start by tempering the eggs with half a ladle of cooking water. it is always better to pasteurize the egg before it meets the pasta because even if it is true that the pasta is hot enough to coagulate the egg it is not enough to guarantee pasteurization. Because it is not enough to be in contact with a heat source but to maintain the right temperature for a certain duration and for science this duration is approximately 3 minutes at a temperature between 60 and 65degC in these conditions bacteria such as salmonella are actually destroyed. Never go above 65 though because otherwise it will start to coagulate and make an omelette. we use a metal bowl, which is very important for quickly checking the temperature and we will obviously need a thermometer. we continuously turn and raise the bowl to reduce the temperature when needed or when we go above 60deg and before reaching 65 because after 65 the problems begin. [Music] we are at temperature now let's keep within the aforementioned range. 3 minutes and we [Music] done. We add the pecorino a little at a time. We also have to melt the pecorino... we add it all except a spoonful for the final sprinkling on the plate or plates [Music] and look at the cream and the aroma of pecorino. while the pasta was cooked three quarters of the way in the pan, we made the bacon and the cream! pepper inside except A teaspoon for the final sprinkling on the plate. The pasta is ready to go in the pan and here the poetry is created . a meter of cooking water and while the pasta finishes I'll tell you about the origins of the recipe. we at PIATTO(tm) have already talked about its possible origin with the story of Renato Gualandi. I'll summarize it for you. Renato Gualandi, a chef during the Second World War, to please the American soldiers and generals and making a virtue of necessity, created what he himself defined as the archetype of carbonara. The story is beautiful, touching But it's just an anecdote. carbonara is much older than Gualandi. it is a dish that derives from another type of pasta: cacio e eggs. Pasta, cheese and eggs was a very common meal among the shepherds of Abruzzo and among the carbonari who, when possible, also added meat in the form of bacon but also bacon, lard or whatever they could. This is the origin of the dish and perhaps also the name. [Music] ok The pasta is cooked , belly rumbling with the heat off, add everything together and plate it. possibly already hot dishes. inside the pillow. the eggs. [Music] let's stir quickly and vigorously and go to [Music] the table. [Music] sprinkle of pecorino... Pepper... fork... Ah Flavia &quot;Come on!&quot; We are all with [Music] you! carbonara as Rome rules and Don't forget to subscribe to PIATTO(tm), like it and let us know how you make your [Music] carbonara