- [Chris] So on a typical game day we'll serve approximately 1,200 hot dogs, 1,100 chicken tenders. Then you have the burgers and it really does become, you know, a moment where you take pause how did we just serve I think you have to be I think you need to have a to be quite honest with (upbeat music) - Have a good day. - You guys ready to rock and roll? My title is Vice President So my day typically We have a bunch of calls and there's always something to be ready for that We are gearing for the fantastic concerts into And we're expecting another sell out, so that is a real 180, because now we're shifting to high food sales. Headed to you and Crown. Yeah, yeah, headed to you and Crown. The calm before the storm So we've got, really, a two and a half to three hours before doors where we're ready for our so they can start helping us It's one thing to kind of hear that everything's on track and doing well, it's a very different thing Ladies, how are you? - I'm good. - Hey, how are you? How are you? Thank you, good to see you. So we have several clubs with Some of our others are the So in general, we have three clubs total, Crown Club being the third. This is our pantry in our Crown Club. So this is where all of our Crown guests get to enjoy what we as a Willy Wonka experience. The Crown Club is our brand Major Food Group-curated event space for our court side guests, or as we affectionately refer to them, the folks with their feet on the wood. The Crown Club opens 30 minutes earlier than the rest of general doors, and that's because of We need to get guests sat so we can get them their meal and onto the court for their action. Hey. Fresh, fresh haircut. You doing all right? About to check in with Chef Livio a little ahead of schedule. And I think based on the we're in solid shape. So it shouldn't be a bad one, all right? - Easy money. - Easy money, easy money. - This is the spicy rigatoni that we serve in the Crown Club. We probably serve anywhere 150 to 200 orders a night on average. This is our most popular dish by far. - Rigatoni window. - So Executive Chef Livio, one of the best culinarians and I think, more than that, one of the best people I've and he makes this job a lot of fun. - I spend more time with him than I spend with my wife. - So the way our kitchen they're thankfully spread so we can get the hottest food So we basically have that really handle all of Livio oversees every single bite of food that comes through all those departments. So our suite-level kitchen does all of our clubs on the and does all the suites but - So 40/40 Club, we do really nice buffet setups, people kind of walk through, you know, food from all The suites is more of People order packages, they And then we send the food out there, the cold food, the hot food. It's set up right before and they walk in there they have an attendant and also comes back and during the evening. This is our dry-aged Tomahawk. It is dry aged for 28 days. We serve it upstairs in suites. This is a huge seller as part I think one of the joys about cooking here at the Barclays Center is not only do we have the clubs where we can do a little but we also have the you know, do like a really nice wing or a really good burger, you know, hot dogs. We get a chance to play - Suites seems very because there's 15 people in Times that by 80, 86, depending on the amount of or some party suites got And so, effectively, what you're doing is serving 86 separate parties. - The next dish that we're gonna do here is our Barclays burger. So we serve this in concessions. We serve it in suites. We serve it in 40/40 Club. We serve it down here in our Qatar Club. I'm gonna say, we probably serve about 1,000 pounds of ground probably a little bit more than that. And our burger is four ounces, so you could calculate that, you know, that's a lot of burgers, right? I think if you're coming number one is you want something you can More than anything else, I think people love simple food, something they can relate to, you know, and also they So that's it, that's (instrumental music) - A check-in for suites That's when we start And then that all leads up at around 20 minutes to - So, essentially what we do and we print everything out so we know exactly how and we can label the stuff accordingly. In a normal restaurant, right, you're getting tickets as People are ordering, you get a ticket. We basically have a - Our suites' operation is something I'm probably along with all the because they're so consistent. As complicated and intricate as it can be, I think our systems support that intricacy and really help execute it well. So right now it's 5:30. We're doing our big, hot and at the same time, all of our clubs, Qatar and 40/40 are pushing at the same time, so this is peak hour for the kitchen. - Richard, I need a spatula, please. - So we're gonna start getting it out to the suites now. (percussion music) So on a typical game night, we're serving 18,000 people in about two and a half or three hours, without exaggeration. That's typically spread out and concession stand (percussion music) Ready for tonight? How you doing, Margaret? You're good? - How you doing, man? - Good to see you, hey. Ladies, hello. I love my team. (Chris laughing) That's what I love the most They wanted to see the best - All right. (team applauding) - We have an hourly team membership of around 650 people From that, we're almost 1,100 with the amount of but without them, nothing could happen. One of the cool parts about is I actually hired a lot of these folks. So we have a connection eight, You guys good? - Thank you, yeah. - Awesome. Let's get it. Sorry, one sec. Super urgent. With all this going on, with being in this, you know, action packed environment of there's also a very heavy And on average, I'll get dozens of text messages, WhatsApp alerts, and it really just doesn't stop all day. And the nature of our businesses is there are a lot of last minute requests that we do everything So being glued to your phone and making sure you don't miss anything is really mission critical to making sure there's We've got about 30 minutes for doors. The worst part of my day, I would say, is that one minute before doors, because that one minute before doors, all the self-doubt comes crashing in. Are we as prepared as we think we are? When I did my walkthrough, Because those 18,000 people are coming whether I like it or not. It is 7:23 and we're in the atrium, but it looks like it's in a nice, orderly fashion. So we're in good shape. The department with the most variables and has the most challenges is definitely concessions. It's just such a juggernaut. So feeding 16,000 guests in How are you? This amazing team of ladies holds down one of the busiest People can't leave Barclays Center without a Fuku chicken sandwich or a set of Fuku chicken tenders, so. The majority of our concession stands are considered mini kitchens. So we do all of the live in those stands. - Danny Zacharia, 107. Main concourse, walk through those doubles doors, come right in to the stand. We got you. - Let 'em know who's making this. Let 'em know who's making it. Right on, right on. These people are excellent. Come get it. Barclays. - This is exactly what we love to see in the Brooklyn Market. Nice and busy and getting a lot of traction So right now we're at halftime. This is our biggest crunch to We have 15 minutes to really get it right so we can get them back in - Following guests. - So during halftime section one or 101 is the eye of the storm for service. So our guests really 'cause it's their first opportunity first opportunity to and they take full advantage of it. So, so far we're feeling really good, lines are moving, food is in the windows, And right now we're just gonna make sure all of our guests are happy. - Excellent. - You can enter right this way, guys. How you doing, guys? If you wanna line up right back there, we'll take care of you real fast. So immediately followed is the calm of the wake of the storm, but it is pretty impressive followed by the inevitable gear down, 'cause it all happens within six minutes. So now we're headed down to the Crown Club because it's post game, and that's the next - Fish fry solo, two, two, four. - What's cash flow? - What table? - One burger medium, one fries. - This job is very challenging. And so, with that challenge comes just such an incredible amount of reward. You feel a sense of accomplishment. You get through a game, you get to sit back and realize there's not a lot of That orchestra is something literally, as I'm telling you. It's so crazy to think it can all work out and not only does it work out, but it works out to a super high level. (electronic music) And with just an amazing that are high fiving with or smiling and high fiving 16 hours later, just to come do it all over again and. - This scene is fixing. - Thank you so much. We'll talk. It's 11:00 P.M. The game is over, we did it. Another successful one in the books. My day's about halfway done. I've got another three and other things to dig out of and planning for the next one and the next one and the next one, but it's been an absolute blast. You guys are welcome back Have a great night. Let's go, Nets! (Chris laughing)