Hi Guys, names marcel - this video, huh? A comment that I got a lot was *INHALE* &quot;WHERE DO I START TO LEARN HOW TO DRAW THERE BEGIN-&quot; this one... This video; right here So what I'm gonna do today is to give you and get into art from the VERY start I don't know if you like to draw manga or BUT it doesnt matter! Because after explaining the roadmap I'll and I'll tell you what kind of skills you So that after watching this video, you'll which ones you can leave on the to-do list Also.. I DO have one special, EXRTA skill it's less of a &quot;skill&quot; and more of a &quot;tip&quot; So yeah, I'm gonna leave it at the end of I think you can see how much effort I put was completely scripted, written I had lots of conventions and.. workshops job but I STILL made this video the best I appreciate your support! Help me make more content for you.. :) join my crew and become my nakama. Alright then - it's time to learn drawing LETS GO! I need to prepare you guys for this, there And, spoiler, but I think it's best if you in handy later on. Otherwise, you will end up like the person want that. Alright, skill number 1 is as basic as it Let's call this one &quot;Linework&quot;. Before you're getting into art I think It'd Because they die hard......... like an elden ring boss- TL;DR, you should work on your skill to make This makes a world of difference if you actually a person who has hasn't- like that comes from insecurity, because you're literally, draw the line. Don't get me wrong, I also use sketched lines THAT'S.. jsut cosmetics. When sketching, I REALLY only sketch with In my business... we call this foreshadowing Because now, we're gonna put this skill of I couldn't think of a name for this one so one on Insta. NGH! That one sounds professional, that'sgood!! Anyway's you guys are welcome to, right now, this simple &quot;shape-design&quot; skill draw the most basic shapes so that you're all of these shapes in the process- but ARE you able to draw the most simple shapes For real; could you make some clean triangles, Because in order to do this, you would obviously to make these shapes look so clean. otherwise, you would see a pretty big difference and in case this doesn't work out for you well, quantity's the word of the hour here. Now, the natural evolution here would be to If you google something like &quot;Shape sketching on google images are almost all 3dimesional shapes. Again, if you're a long-term vieweer of this you before. sketching out 3dminesional shapes makes is old sqaures and circels. Also.. this also goes for portaits and anything else if somethign looks more 3d-imensional it almost And maybe, if you payed attention, you saw more &quot;3d VISION&quot;. It's not only about simply drawing a CUBE shapes or objects... and are made up. I wouldn't call this skill &quot;perspective&quot;, This is more.. like, a &quot;baby&quot; version of perspective. Just understading the 3dimesionality of shapes Before that I have another skill I would like I don't think this is going where you think to draw humans is obviously I actually DON'T suggest you read into things also something that people &quot;WHY does my drawing of a human body look Believe me, that's a kind of message I basically artworks and are like so they desperatly try to add all of these knowing how to draw THE most basic human proportions, dehydrated-corpse drip. You're already trying to learn skills from is something you shouldn't be even What you need to learn are proportions, basically the size of the indicidual parts are. That's why I also call this skill &quot;simple this one &quot;proportions&quot;. Also, a little tip I have for y'all, if you you could at least use some space for that. This really gives you some room to breathe In case you never dabbled in the topic of get your feet wet. Just like before, these are still the simple the beginning of your art journey. So I think it's best to still stick to the While Drawing with perspective, you nee to You could have three in total. Drawing an artwork with one vanishing point's be kinda challenging, so for now I think vanishing point. Otherwise this could be a bit too much imput If you learn how to use this 1-point perspective, 3d scenarios. If you break it down it really is exatly what A couple of 3d shapes and boxes with clean one vanishing point. So it's still kinda basic, but it least doesn't it the right way. At least this artwork right here was good volume of my manga, so yeah! Simple doesn't have to mean bad! You can take a look into the manga-series But yeah, enough of that! We're almost at a point where we're going into the next skill you could be I think dynamics are what differenciates an I-I mean look at this! It's the same character, the same knowledge The only thing that's different here is the My subscribers are probably already familiar And I think at this point, right before we're timing to learn about this. You're not an ABSOLUTE beginner when it comes also not TOO advanced. Wait, you can be &quot;too advanced&quot;? Just wait,I'll show you what I mean by that It's the same as with the anatomy-example r-right? Please don't tell me TikTok already destroyed h-hey?! you're supposed to WATCH this video, I've For those who remember, it's basically the If you're too absorbed in the details, you And dynamics are something you impliment at That's how dnamics work as well! Dynamics are something you plan out before and since we're still in the beginner territory, drawing those simple manequins you've learned dynamic poses. Now, that we basically finished the simpler what kind of timeframe would be realistic Could you learn all of this within a day? The answer is.. there is no correct answer. Nnnever has been- With my videos on drawing perspective, anatomy could EASILY learn about this in one day but aquired all of these skills. It's just like watching a tutorial video on solving them yourself. Watching tutorials won't be anough, it can you can actually do this yourself. take your time, learn the basics, pressure So don't rush things, After all - you don't So, y'all ready? Let's get more advanced. And the first one I would suggest is to learn Like I said, you can learn to draw perspective this can get pretty challenging, depending Obviously, people always associate Vanishing the case. You can also use vanishing points to check &quot;but WHY would I draw random cubes anymore, Well.. yeah, because these cubes you've learned actually containing objects in percpective. So by using 3-point perspective you get to But it's also useful for just... being able That's why I put it at the very start, because Vanishing points are a very helpful tool for still use earlier on for more basic art. The next adanced lesson would be Shape design. You've learned to draw some easier 3d shapes, hard shapes and objects you can well. draw ANYTHING. From out of this world Lovecraftian objects If you truly master this skill you can just earlier and you can literally draw This obviously takes a ton of practise, but 3-point perspective to check the perspective, being able to draw any shape in order to learned, some nice linework. That's why this skill is still a bit earlier easy, but because it's SO useful! Doesn't matter if your portait-model's wearing you want to draw a certain can basically draw.... EVERYTHING I didn't make a video about this topic yet, would be to just google some now, here's the elephant in the room; anatomy. Yeah, alright, if you're someone who's ONLY learn this earlier on of course. a lot of things here depend on preference the skills I already mentioned, This part here complettely depends on if you all, I guess landscape artists really couldn't point where I would say the floodgates are and you should learn anything about the human There are a lot of different methods for learning huston method, the loomis method, the reily I pesonally think they are a good way to get time you'll probably develop your own method But you'll arrive at that point once you know Once you're able to draw shapes, and faces to giving your art some depht Of course, you could always read into this so far is FAR more important than shading. After all, what good is shading if you're Like I said, this is where you could get your way with simplified planes that tell you where darker and where to shade lighter. At least that's how I showed it in my tutorial I think that's a nice way for beginners to shading works. There's one more skill before we split up And that's anatomy. Since I don't want to treat you all the same, If you're an artist who focusses on animals, you're drawing. Same goes for fantasy creatures and anything If you've come this far with your art, I thinkyou're of anatomy you would want to learn, be it whatever. but, at least With human anatomy, I mean the You could learn how to draw anatomically correct with one another and so on. This Skill alone basically takes a lifetime learning about this stuff. The most important thing though, is that you're version with proportions. Otherwise.... yeah- And now, here's.. where things get interesting. I honestly don't think it matters whch of comes down to preference. Just be prepared, these are also advanced I'd even dare to say some of them are topics stop learning You could level up your shading and get to Instead of just plain black and white, you'll and how light interacts with your subject. THis also kinda goes into colour theory, so same goes for rendering, this is basically Some famous examples are crosshatching or There are many different styles of rendering on a lot of factors. like, for example what medium you're using, what art style do you prefer and so on. truly THE most indicidual topic. and, last but not least, Composition. This topic is incredibly underrated, yet so By learning and mastering composition, you picking backgrounds anymore, know what kind of background fits which subject I wrote articles about this and how I'm using want to make a video about this, but like video would be pretty much as long as this But I will upload it eventually, just subscribe I uploa- oh yeah, right. I did mention this &quot;hidden skill&quot; at the beginning, This skill isn't really part of the roadmap But I ALSO promised to give you guys an overview the style your pursuing, so let me just give here. The most important part is that it doesn't need the basic skillset I mentioned. Until that point I'd really urge you to master in handy in every style. Now, let's start with the one you're all probably I think portaits are kinda self-explainatory, shading should be absolutely mastered skills Also, since you need to deliver THE most aethetically be able to render it the best you possibly and something else - composition. You it's not absolutely mandatory but knowing it should be, which corners should stay blank, your portait to another level. DEVIL's... in the detail after all.. With landscapes you obviously won't need any I think the basics should be enough to add Something you should absolutely max out though, Also, Perspective is also absoluetely non I know there are artists who at all, but since this video is more about just ignore this point. Shading, and by extension Colour theory also thatout. I think rendering is important here, but AS Shape design also couldn't hurt, but this buildings or statues. I know most of you are into ccomic, webcomic not gonna be an easy pill to swallow trades here shape design for objects like swords, anatomy for arranging your panels, perspective so and so on. I'd say you don't need to MASTER all of these But after all, since there are so many different you MASTER. Depending on which skills you level, your but yeah. I'd say level as much as you possible can By the way, I've made videos about ALMOST to rendering and dynamics, and many more, but... there still was that one thing,...right? Yeah, it's a... skill I couldn't really find And that's because it's kinda the most important per se. It's something that evolves over time - It's It's the skill to analyze an artwork and to Is it the way the artwork's composed? Is it the way it's shaded or the way the anatomy Maybe the pose implementet has a unique dynamic? So this analytic-skill allow you to learn This is also how you're able to develop your and implementing what makes them so This autodidactic skill is what makes you without this skill, without being an autodidact, and classes. But if you truly aquire this skill - you will And learning just by LOOKING at something actively trying. THIS.. is the ultimate skill every artist There's always something in art that you Just like the old master said. Ancora Imparo