MALE SPEAKER: Hello, everyone. Thank you all for coming. And folks who are joining Today we have a very, very whose work I deeply admire I was thinking about what is Should I say he is a Managing Should I say he's an Adjunct Usually not all practitioners or appreciate academia. And not necessarily are good practitioners. At lunch today our speaker said, And those are the two things So I think that's the He's a teacher and writer. So without further ado, please join me in welcoming [APPLAUSE] MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: And good afternoon. It's a real pleasure to look forward to The topic today is an of skill and luck. I'll tell you my When I was a senior no idea what I wanted but I did know I needed a job. I went to school and one of the firms was Drexel Burnham Lambert. Now this is probably But it was a fairly hot On campus interview-- that I was invited to So I get my very best go to New York. The day of the big sitting around a conference here is the basic setup. You're going to have six from our training going to get 10 minutes So of course, you want But for those 10 minutes make So I go through They go reasonably well. I get my 10 minutes. I'm ushered into this and I see peeking out a Washington Redskins trash can. Now I've been going to The Redskins were So I said to the that's an awesome trashcan. This hits the guy in And my 10 minute interview of him going on about and how much the football And I'm basically going So I go back to school. Couple weeks later I in the mail-- you've This is great. I'm gainfully employed, and I start my job. About three months into in the program pulls me says, hey, kid you're doing OK. Everything's fine. I just want you to know. But I have to tell The six people you interviewed Very reassuring, right? So I'm like, OK, And he said, well, came in and overrode And he insisted we hire you. So I like to say my career And that was pure luck. And thankfully there are involved with that, either. Otherwise, I'd The topic today I really want to talk First I want to and talk about what I call things you can take In the middle part-- the I want to talk about the what they look like and And then finally I'll wrap up a but also why we struggle to understand the role of luck. One way to think about a continuum of activities. On the far left-- You might think lotteries On the far right-- Maybe running races or It's very important So let me just take I'm going to define of the dictionary, to apply one's knowledge readily So you know how to you're called on to do Now luck-- as you is much more It actually spills into moral But I'm going to three conditions are in place. Number one is it operates for So it happens to you, or your The second is it And I don't mean to because we'll see in a few symmetrical. But there's a plus sign And third is it is a different outcome So if we rewound the tape of it's reasonable to expect have occurred. Now what I've done here for fun leagues based on one So this is where on the luck/skill continuum. That's the NBA, Barclays Premier Baseball, the NFL, and Now I'll mention one other which is kind of fun. There's a really which I learned from about figuring out if there's And that is, ask if you If you can lose on purpose, If you can't lose on purpose, So that's another nice little I'm going to go through this up for the next discussion. You might imagine that is drawing from a luck distribution. So I take the two and that's going So in the far left it would and you're drawing So only luck is going On the right it's from a skill distribution So only skill matters. And then everything to be some So we're drawing So this very simplistic me to proceed with what I So easy lesson you see an extreme most of the outliers outliers because negative either literally So whenever you see it's always the combination of And if you think that really has to be true. It's a right hand draw from Now there are many ways One of the convenient ways This, of course, who hit in 56 straight DiMaggio was a one of the best of all time. And it turns out if you look or more hitting streaks, is over .300. They're about one and a above the average. So saying this very all skillful players but all the streaks are And it make sense, right? Because skill is the comes on top to get The second observation-- is about reversion to the mean. By the way, is a fascinating think most people have a sense But if you actually observe they don't act as if to the mean. So let me just be technical. You guys all understand this. Reversion to the mean says from average will be with an expected value Right? Now here's the you may remember from ago-- the heights Very tall fathers But the heights of the sons of all the sons. And likewise, short But the heights of the sons of all heights of the sons. Now here's the one very interesting this reversion to the mean continuum, which is it on the luck/skill continuum to the mean-- not but the rate of So for example, if side of the continuum, there's In other words, expected is some measure of the the mode. If you're on the pure skill there's no reversion We run a sprint against We run again, he wins again. No reversion to the mean. So if you know where you automatically have a sense to the mean. So if you're thinking performance or markets it's a very, very helpful Now the third lesson is garnered the most It's a concept I call I want to be clear but I gave it that name. And the paradox of skills says and luck contribute to that as skill increases-- luck becomes more important. So how can we have to more luck being important? Now I learned about this a very eminent a lot about evolutionary to write about baseball. And one of my favorite was about Ted Williams, Ted Williams was the .400 in Major League Baseball. He also did it in the year 1941. And so the question is why has no one this feat over the He said maybe it's because the because there are maybe-- none of these The answer was, it turns out for Major League Baseball which is to say the difference and the average than it was a generation ago. So if you accept that some skill plus if the standard deviation that means the standard should go down. And that's, indeed, So the standard deviation of was .032. And the standard deviation is about .027. So saying this was a four standard And if you were a four standard let's say 70 years later-- Now .380 is obviously fantastic. But it doesn't get you over Now here's the thing It turns out the paradox of It's very visibly of investing where the standard has been coming down It's true in the as I've already mentioned. It's also true in the for example, Now it's much more uniform before. I want to leave you The distinction that absolute skill And that's true But relative skill has That means more is And I want to just More is being left to than it has been in years past. We'll come back to So those are the The paradox skill says as if relative skill is actually going The paradox of skill actually prediction which there is no luck we should if my description is correct. One is an absolute improvement-- to some physiological limit. I'm using an athletic And the second is suggesting the right That means the performance is So there are many this is actually occurring. One convenient example is So the white line of the guy who won And you can see that about 23 and a half minutes won the gold medal in 1932. So not a huge surprise. But if you're a runner, it's pick up over 80 years. The more interesting which is the difference won the gold medal and Now mind you, this is supposed runners in the world That difference was Now just take that This is the Olympic marathon. The guy has won the gold is eating a sandwich, is still on the That time is down to about five And I think we can if we meet in the be an even shorter So we see in swimming, this convergence of times. And as you know, we need now just to figure out and when they finish in which one is the fastest Let me shift gears a bit and I've been depicting them with but of course, Skill-- let me start with that. It's actually quite Skill tends to follow an arc. So we call this Again, let me start with This is sports. So for example, if you've when you start off you don't have a But as you practice, you get At some point you get as you're getting stronger. And then you come So there's this By the way, for sports the is slow twitch versus It turns out that in sports with players peak young. So sprinters-- 22, 23. Basketball players-- And then if there's you peak in your So baseball players-- late 20s. Some football players-- By the way, if you're a golfer, Golf tends to plateau and then it rolls So here's Tiger So no matter what other Father Time is also Here's the actual arc This is quite interesting data. This is the winner of Men's in the Open era. So 1968 through 2013. So on top you can And it turns out, the And it turns out in or so, the mean is So 24 years old is for winning men's Now the bottom panel-- to see from where you is actually the age of every since that time, with And what we know is in the only four players have old who've won a Grand Slam. Only four players. By the way, we had a about this just a couple trying to win Wimbledon. He's 32 years old. He'll be 33 in the fall. It's simply no one has won since Arthur Ash did it in 1975. So it was really-- it just shows But at his age, with is you physically slow And that difference between you and a So we'll see if in men's tennis starts to take over. This is a very, very that we see in every sport Now your reaction to that is that's interesting. Maybe it helps you in your or something. But what you care about is Psychologists study And it follows the And it turns out agree that cognitive a function of two so-called crystallized And you can see from is sort of a bad news, Let's start with the bad news, So fluid intelligence your ability to So if I present you with seen before, how good what's going to happen next? Turns out we have who are probably right at Fluid intelligence tends and then pretty much goes So if you're out of probably on the of your fluid intelligence. Crystallized is the good news, of that is exactly It's your cumulative knowledge. It's your wisdom, understanding That pretty much-- barring pretty much grows So you can see that. And it's the combination that So here are the Now I just want to and maybe I'll ask you I'm going to ask you a performance for certain tasks. So the first one is there was a study done of So these are portfolio managers. And the question I'll post do you believe institutional excess returns? So what age do deliver the best excess returns? Throw out some numbers. What do we hear? AUDIENCE: 72. MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: 70? God, I love that I'm holding on to that one. AUDIENCE: 55. MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: 55. AUDIENCE: 45. AUDIENCE: 40. MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: 40. 40 40. 45. Very specific. OK. So the answer-- well, is the range of 40 to 44. But let's call it So you guys, you know, some of Let's hold on to I may modify that one. So institutional money The other one that was even was a paper done by David at Harvard University. And this is where they used They went out and studied-- now but people in the At what age do people make decisions? So this is at what the best terms on At what age do people rates on their mortgages? That type of stuff. So there were about a dozen of people participating. At what age do people make decisions? What number, what age AUDIENCE: 30 to 35. MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: 30 to 35. AUDIENCE: 55 to 60. MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: AUDIENCE: 55 to 60. MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: That's good. I like that one. That's good. So anybody else? Yeah? AUDIENCE: 40 to 45. MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: So 40 to 45. This is one where I'm thinking older is better, in part to have more assets on average, which is true. And really, there's no even when you get into your Turns out the age was 53. 53. And there's a standard But almost everyone in tended to converge on age 53. So the question I was asking for instance. And it turns out of that is that just it becomes more difficult for us as we get older we tend to get We tend to get So I'm going to ask you Please don't shout You guys just answer or write it down Here's a very simple question So here's the set up. Jack is looking at Anne. Anne is looking at George. Jack is married. George is unmarried. Here's the question Is a married person looking All right? So Jack is married. He's looking at Anne. Anne is looking at George. He's unmarried. The question is, looking at an unmarried person? So there are three A, yes. B, no. C, cannot be determined based me. So let me ask this question. What is the first answer AUDIENCE: C. MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: C, right? So by the way, how first answer comes So of course, that's But it is the first answer Now let me see if I can See I have two There are no tricks. I have two pairs to work with. Jack and Anne-- I know Right there, the light You know Jack's marital state. You don't know So I can't tell My second pair is I know George's marital don't know Anne's marital state. So I can't tell. I'm basically stuck. Now the answer is A, yes. And the reason is Anne has only She's either married And of course that's exhaustive. So let's assume for a Jack is looking at Anne. Is a married person looking at-- And now flip her status Anne is looking at George. Is a married person looking The answer would be yes. Right. So no matter what I assume the answer must be affirmative Now what happens-- through that purposefully. Everyone answers C at first. And the only way to is to check your work. Now if I had given assure you all would have But what happens you're less likely to check likely to check your work. The first answer that And if you want to use that question is meant to rapid response. And unless you recruited to answer that you're going to come That's what happens. That's the cartoon version of We go with rules of Now let me turn to the topic quite a bit richer than And when we talk a very bright dividing that are largely independent path dependent activities-- before affects And what I'm going to dependent processes is of predictability and But let me start first and that is these In the book we actually named Adam Jones. His batting average in by the way-- his batting So we create a spinner 72% of the time, out. We simulate 10,000 seasons. We compare it to the actual And hitting is not but it's close enough for all So that's basically a close not perfect, but close enough. And there are other that we can model on where that element to be pretty easy to perfect, but The more interesting case is So this is my second quiz that's much easier Which is, what is the most AUDIENCE: &quot;Mona Lisa.&quot; MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: That's a hint as everybody here So there's the &quot;Mona Lisa.&quot; By the way, how many seen the &quot;Mona Yes? And so what was your AUDIENCE: Small. MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: Small. Anything else besides small? Any other descriptors? Inspiring? No, small. That's usually what people say. Well, I have to say, my wife, And we last summer we have five kids-- So all eight of And we, of course, We got a guide there so that our kids as we were a generation before. So we've perpetuated Now you all know the basic It was painted by Leonardo in the early 1500s. It was in Italy for a number but it's been in France So let's round it and say 500 Now the question is to pose is, why is the &quot;Mona Lisa&quot; gets when you ask that 85% of people say-- unprompted-- By the way, I was because I was in and I was giving a And I asked people there-- and the answer spilled out decisively. So that the truly So the question is, the most famous And if you were an art critic well, there were only like 11 But he depicted movement in He used oil paints. And you can always fall back on Lisa. But notice that are truly unique to the are actually quite So now what if I told you existence, it was not the most And I want to give you two The first is in 1750. The painting was in Versailles-- from Paris-- at And they said, we're pieces from Versailles to Paris for an exhibition. So the top 100 pieces. &quot;Mona Lisa&quot; doesn't This is 1750, so it's about It doesn't make the cut. In 1797, it goes to the Louvre-- where it remains And right around specifically-- The curators of in experts to value in part for insurance purposes. And what you see is the &quot;Mona to be the most valuable And its value was a fraction of the most So what happened where everybody says, the most famous Now some of you may but it's a wonderful one. In the summer of 1911, an apparently-- decides should be returned So he sneaks into the it was closed on Mondays at the Monday morning came in and put it in his jacket, Now when I asked you-- for Lisa&quot;-- I said, what what was your reaction? Most of you said small. And that was a huge asset So it's a fairly small painting. And that fit nicely as he sneaked out Now this guy-- a lot of He was a little But he basically went put it in a trunk, and and basically left it there. And no one heard anything of it. Now immediately-- is a time when the Parisian four million newspapers where's our beloved &quot;Mona in France and then ultimately So this great da Vinci Well, two years later, this decides to get rid So he writes a letter to a And he says, hey, my name-- I want to bring Will you buy it off me? And the guy says, hey, if authenticate it, sure. So the guy goes Sure enough, they they authenticate They arrest the guy-- as he's dragged And they negotiate with And then within it comes back to France 100 years almost, It gets its own room, come to see this. So it sort of kick starts the And from there, of course, it So on the left, you see the very where it's got a little And if you can read French, it's a bit of a scandalous And on the right, it comes with Nat King Cole's number &quot;Mona Lisa,&quot; wins an By the way, no one really knows The last time it came was the early 1960s. It was brought over It was then put out for So there's an interesting thing. There's something called &quot;The which writes about And one of the things was the art chain-- so the art So just for fun, I took and attached it And you have to inflation But if you work of back of the estimate for the value of the is 2.5 billion dollars. And that would be what's paid for any painting. Now of course, it's invaluable. Who knows what it's worth would fetch that I have no idea. But just to give you of that exercise for fun. Now the problem with my it's entertaining-- but there's and there's no way Right? What I've done is I've attached to a claim-- that's made But I want to share with you the lends credence to how This is an experiment done by University called Music Lab. The main researcher on this And what they did is ostensibly About 14,000 people So here's the basic drill. You're a college kids sitting and it says, hey, we care about Come into our site. You see 48 songs So they validate-- that no one had heard of And they say, cruise and then rate them. Five stars, I love it. One star, I hate it. And if you really like it, you So that's the basic set up-- Now unbeknownst they came in-- they call the The order of the Love it, hate it, can see what no one So effectively you're in the The other 80%-- of course, The other 80% went into 10% You could think of as parallel universes. Identical initial set but now you could see what You could see what and you could see what In one extreme version they had a leader board-- the most downloaded So the question is, of what people do before you and what you ultimately do? And the answer is fairly Now I want to be really clear. The best songs in the had a much better chance of And the bad songs So quality mattered. I want to be really But if you're in the top of the control independent can happen. Now there was one captured the It's a song called &quot;Lockdown&quot; And it was number 26 in So this is one out of 48. It's number 26. It's basically the Right in the middle. In one of the social worlds, And in another one of the So the point is, if we roll would we likely have the &quot;Harry Potter&quot;? Would &quot;Star Wars&quot; Would YouTube be YouTube? The answer is highly would succeed to the that they did succeed. It's inherently very By the way, as a mention that I teach a course And this year-- we always And this year we who was an executive Now he runs Turner Broadcasting. And he must have a half dozen times we have no idea what's You know, we obviously We try to think about formulas. We really have no idea So they've got a huge TV They're very incentivized but it's very difficult to do. Now the other thing I mentioned Economists call this says for a small there's a huge change in payoff. The example-- the to use for this-- you might think-- there So the x-axis here, going to be skill, or quality, The y-axis is some sort of could be profits, One example-- a trivial one-- tournament, you make as the guy who though on any objective you're sitting right and vastly better than Now the product I want to is a product called And you all know his a remarkably successful His first very commercially came out in 1973, And from that point on, He published about a book a year But it turns out Stephen writing more than So he's got these extra novels So he turns to his hey, we're doing great. How about we publish more And the guy says, One book per author per year. That's how we do it in So he says, you know what? I'm going to publish And the pseudonym Richard because there was a on his desk at that because Bachman-Turner Overdrive Some of the older people &quot;You Ain't Seen Nothing Yet.&quot; So Richard Bachman starts going And here's what happens for Stephen King-- great Richard Bachman-- Stephen King-- great Richard Bachman-- And this is going The last Richard Bachman book and it was called &quot;Thinner.&quot; There was a guy in a who was reading this book. And he was like, this he writes a lot He develops his characters You know, I think this He so believes this he goes and looks up who's got the And it turns out-- Stephen King. So he figures this out. And he calls him up I've realized that King comes clean and says, hey, congratulations. You figured it out. I'll give you the first So the whole thing is over. Now what's remarkable for the context of the story it was revealed that that book Bachman, but rather by Stephen Same book. And by the way, this may have a This actually Anybody follow this whole JK Rowling wrote a book under We actually have We kept track of them. It was actually very cool. So it's puttering along. It's doing fine. It's puttering along but not And then, this book is and it shoots to number one. So I can imagine would be very hard to hold because eventually you can Now the last section I and then we can have is why we struggle and then ultimately Now if I tell you the everybody here gets that. There's no concern. You completely But once an event that happens in all it happens effortlessly which is your mind to explain that file that narrative And as you do that, One is called is you start to believe that you with a greater probability And the second concept-- is called creeping is you start to believe was the only thing that By the way, it's very have the outcome and you have And your mind says, aha! Yes, it had to be that way. How could I have entertained Now you might say, why do This guy on the left who is a well-known He studied under Roger Sperry And he's probably best known &quot;split-brain patients.&quot; Now these are people who They have failed all And as a last ditch and they sever the the bundle of nerves between the By the way, the first thing is actually a very People feel much But the second an incredibly interesting experimenters can into the right the patient what's going on. So the right hemisphere So for instance, they through the left eye to And then they say point at the picture that And they point at the door, Then they ask them, why Now note, your left because it can talk, because it can't in the right hemisphere. But it can see that So what the left effortlessly and rapidly-- story to explain what And by the way, if you read this it's absolutely-- it's because these people to explain what they're doing. So pronounced is this call this the interpreter. The interpreter is part resides in our left hemisphere. If I give you an effect, you And by the way, that demands to be scratched. I throw an effect at you, Now here is the punchline The interpreter knows nothing So if it sees a it assumes something If it sees a assumes something And even check yourself. Even check yourself. If you're looking at a and you know ahead of time the note that once the you automatically create a and you somehow dismiss all So here's the fascinating about this if the paradox of skill is higher, relative means luck is determining That's colliding with a to understand the role of luck. So that's one that hopefully is as you think through Now what's related to that There's an interesting book ago by Jonathan Gottschall Animal.&quot; One quote from this. It says, &quot;A storytelling mind randomness, and coincidence. it is addicted to meaning. If the storytelling mind in the world, it will Now here's the last line &quot;In short, the storytelling mind true stories when it can, but can't.&quot; And that, I think, is If we see outcomes that we will try to impose our own just as the split-brain Now you might say, well, Let me give you one example from fascinating in this regard. There was a piece of research on all the books about &quot;Good to Great,&quot; &quot;In Search of You've heard of these. You may have a couple of In these books they tally that are mentioned And the question these was, how many companies are and how many are there because So I'll spare you But what they basically do is they create a transition then they simulate So it allows them to sort so-called common cause Basically, what does written What's special from the system? By the way, what they to these companies is that demonstrate skill, just Most of money can be explained by luck. But truly there differential skill to Same thing. But when they to the 700 companies mentioned was that only 12% could be confidently The other 80% they thought were Now remember a while that when there's a you expect rapid Go pick up your copy and look at the Table of mentioned there. And you'll see that almost the performance of rolled right over, just as So here's an example of guys of copies of books purporting or sets of rules, or attributes when the foundation basically rests on Now let me wrap up with How do we get better? How do we get better? So first let me talk If you're on the far right the culture and skill side-- the By the way, I don't know if Times&quot; today-- the science Times.&quot; There was an interesting about Zach Hambrick's work on how much of true performance is hard work and And by the way, I wrote I thought the world much toward this version-- 10,000 hours you and too far away from So I wrote a bit about this. But that's the point Hambrick's work that there is clearly and that talent plays a That said, if it's a mostly deliberate practice is truly a So this is 10,000 hours where you're getting Now here's the key. In these types of activities, is a very clear indicator If I want to know if player or a good piano player-- I can listen to And I can tell if And then I can give you As you slide over to the as you can imagine-- is a good example of this-- and skill becomes broken, or So for example, you and play blackjack and and win for awhile or play Over the long haul that won't So there's no connection of your playing and As a consequence, as you need to focus And I won't go on a But the process-- have three essential I'm going to call analytical, And then once you have how much to bet on that edge. Second I'm going to which is understanding the tend to fall for and trying to to manage or mitigate those. And the third I'm going This most famously where agents and principles But all of us work in are perfect. The question is, helping or impeding the So how you improve your skill-- is a function of where you lie and that dictates how Now whenever I tell about skill and luck I know all about this. Yeah, luck is where Or the harder I work, Yeah, see you guys said that. Hey, we don't have I already know the whole story. It's luck meets preparation. Now if you accept my none of those things In other words, you in a different way, which and what is not in your control? If it's in your to be skill to some degree. Only if it's out of your In some ways you can't All you can possibly do is So let me give you two On the left-- it'd where if you're in a let's say a sports and you're the you want to do if player is simplify the game. And by simplifying the game-- that means your skill will overwhelm that If you are the underdog or you want to do is complicate Again, you'll still But it dilutes the strength So some examples- well, If you're the don't want to go toe to toe. You want to use In the world of want to compete head to You want to use disruptive type of stuff. In the world of sports, you use trick plays, and so So those are the ways to try especially if you're or tilt them in your favor if On the right is this This is something you as an organization. Many years ago I followed the food companies-- in And they used to always on advertising and marketing. And we know that we just don't know So we can't stop doing it. And so what's is this concept of A/B testing. So now we can go along and and figure out-- for might say here are two different Which one will sell more stuff? And so we constantly In a sense you're not What you're doing is clearing and focusing on causality But I sort of threw as just dismissing With that I'll stop. There are three you'll take away from this. The first is defining skill and So just those definitions But in the first section, I want you to walk of the paradox of skill. That even as skill it's often in many domains which is leaving more to luck. The second thing I want to leave and especially these And in particular, to be very circumspect to predict the outcome of And again-- as you know-- A lot of things do depend on and so forth. And those are inherently to predict winners. And then the third area And the main thing I is this idea of the is we have a part of our brain causes for every and for you to be very as you're considering So with that let be very happy to is coming with a I'd be happy to entertain We have a few minutes? Yeah, we have a MALE SPEAKER: Yes, we'll And thanks for the talk. MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: My pleasure. [APPLAUSE] Oh, thank you. [APPLAUSE] AUDIENCE: So just looking at of average Americans, a lot of certainty It looks to us like So is there a lack Is the skill not growing? What's going on? MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: Super I think the answer is the notion luck-- if I put it I would put investing way But again, I don't think it's because of luck. So let's go back to I think that the that most professional very skillful. They've gone to great schools. They've got incredible power, and information But the problem is they're So their skill is So I think that's of the paradox of skill. If I put you back in the 1960s access to as a you would run circles But now everybody's So I think it leaves So that's why it I think-- for the most part. So that's it. Now I will mention one I showed you the and how the difference has been declining over time. We actually did a very similar So what we do is we it's basically the standard so it's what does the of returns look like. And what's happened is that it's got skinnier. So the difference between is less today than it was So again, it is very because there is It's actually the opposite. The skill is very is the way to think about that. And by the way, that's true You might say that even the you can see the that high one way or the other. That certainly would of the skill of the players, And certainly put any on the pitch versus and they'd run It's that the skills And as a consequence, luck Great question. Very important one. AUDIENCE: You mentioned between age and And you said that you picked like that. Warren Buffett is over 80. Do you think he's not This is the first question. That is a fun question. The second one-- more and more who is a good value investor. But if you had to find one, MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: Awesome. Two excellent questions. Warren Buffett is, I think that he's been pretty that he's been. So that's one thing. I think he's doing less as we would say in running He's obviously now allocating for So I think that the game But I do suspect-- but I do suspect that he with a 40-year-old version AUDIENCE: He also MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: And he Yeah, that's right. That also impedes The second part-- your AUDIENCE: How to find-- MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: Oh, yeah. Value investors. So look, I think-- I'll mention First of all, I think of many great value investors-- There's a quote which Seth Klarman at Baupost, who investors. And he says, value the marriage between and a calculator. So what does he mean? The contrarian streak, I which is the ability to go doing. So Buffett's got It is, be fearful when others others are fearful. Let me just say this-- a very social exercise. Very social. And it takes a who's willing to do everybody else is doing. So that's the first element. The problem is for the sake of being a very good idea because right. In other words, if the movie run out the door. Don't-- So the calculator is which says as a consequence of means a gap between And so that becomes an So the great value are people with certain characteristics. In part, they are not to care about what about what they think. And that's very rare in Most people are very other people think about them. And then often this question about Buffett Berkshire Hathaway is set very conducive to He's not influenced by a Day-to-day business So those would be The main thing is this independently of what AUDIENCE: On the get the similar or the same Instead of from one person Or if we look from outside and So would that actually the be determining this MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: Super interesting question. So let me make sure that But I would just a lot about this in the And it relates even about being a contrarian. Well, we can use more formal But let's just use a like &quot;The Wisdom of Crowds.&quot; So when are crowds wise Crowds tend to be three conditions are in place. And Surowiecki wrote One is diversity of So we need diversity The second is a properly mechanism. So you all have information in one place. And the third is incentives, rewards for being right and So when those three I can demonstrate very efficient economic the textbooks predict. But what happens is when one are violated, then I get And I think that's those contrarian streaks. So when we all believe the and we get the flips over to the You can read the annals. I mean, there are famous-- South I mean there are famous-- the I mean there are some-- this But it does happen and it can So that is a thing I look for these so-called And for whatever taking one side of the It could be mostly But it could also be I own a portfolio that And now I'm getting So I have to sell things So it's not because I So those things can So that's a very It's a very rich question. But that's the idea. So then you say, well, how do I'm not so sure. That's where the great And that's where streak plus the calculators of these diversity AUDIENCE: My name is Bruno. And my question is, I that most of us in this room try to be the best. And in that sense, it seems to is that I should try to be in are the best. But like you said, that group and the standard deviation is And after that I kind of And if that's the case, how do feeling of I did my best, but MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: know if you'd say I think in some ways You do the best you can. So I would say it this way. I would go backwards look at the most successful however you want to measure without fail you'd find lucky at some point. And by the way, in I start with a story of-- It's a famous of Bill Gates and Gary Kildall. Do you guys know the Does everybody know this? You don't know You know it, in the back, right? So if I get it wrong, IBM launches a PC in in 1980, '81. And they need an So it turns out and Bill Gates' mother are So that's a first start. She says, oh, my little Bill. He knows something You should go see him. The IBM teams flies to Microsoft By the way, they were It had nothing to do And Bill Gates-- they say, do We're building this PC. It's all secret. Sign all these papers. And Bill Gates says, This guy Gary Kildall he's the guy that does this. Gary Kildall's company had for Intel chips. 80% market share in 1980. Dominant. And he's considered the greatest So they go down to Gary. This part of the story, no one But basically he Like he either didn't show up They kind of came to a Anyway, the IBM guys And he refused to So they go back up to Microsoft. And they go, Bill, this And Bill goes, I'll hook you up. So he goes across town and of Kildall's product. Knock off for $50,000. And he called it MS I'm going to sell But I'm not going to sell it-- That was a genius. And from there-- right now. So the PC is now When you bought you actually bought and then you bought It wasn't loaded on. So it turns out-- so Kildall Gates is going to be selling So he calls up IBM and he They go, yeah, yeah, But it turns out, IBM to price the products. So when the first PC went And Gary Kildall's So which one do you And that's the end of the story. So Gary Kildall ended an amazing story. By the way, Gary Kildall And it turns out, the story a biker bar-- in No one really knows But he got drunk, got or just fell down, hit his head And so it's very-- could I have twisted that and Gary Kildall Bill Gates would be still But he wouldn't be So those are the examples. That's why I say, is I don't know if But my point is you in your effort to succeed. But there's no one that isn't lucky. It's almost, by If there's luck in it's almost-- now in things like athletics, or if there's any to measure people's performance. Less true. But when there are these You know, JK Rowling. You guys know this story. Harry Potter was turned down before someone grudgingly It's the greatest selling I feel liberated I think it's the other way. I feel the opposite, and this is what I say If you work as hard as doesn't really matter. You've done all you can do. The fates. The fates of the gods. AUDIENCE: My name is Timmy, We talked about but I just want to talk a And as someone who's high up in I'm sure when you guys that you're looking at successful at leadership But are there talking about the want to say it's seeing something that and maybe is luck? And how do you go about about are they going to-- MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: think you want to hire but I think that that's This is a really And I have some thoughts separate. But let me just on being careful about this. There's a guy at Harvard who wrote a book And what he actually of hiring stars from to join your organization. And it turns out to be a very poor, Most people don't-- their organization to another It's true less in athletics, It's certainly true in So for example, they who are obviously trained to And they found to other organizations that they tended to do well. But if they went to other the same as GE, they tended So we see this a lot in It's hard for me-- To me the kinds of things is someone who-- and there But a lot of it is I do think I think for me it's thinking It's being fact-based, and setting a tone or that people are So those are the But it's very hard. I think it's very And the last thing I'll to the interpreter, which By the way, there's I'd recommend to Effect&quot; by a guy It's a very short But an incredibly And what he says is basically, the CEO walks on water. And when things are going by the way-- may have no I think we spin stories or to fit the facts, that AUDIENCE: I found when you mentioned gap between the person who is is at 20th is narrowing. And in my head I was thinking, gap between the two. If you compared the top guy versus now, now the gap is has narrowed down. It's sort of a paradox. And if seemed frustrating. MICHAEL MAUBOUSSIN: thought about I think it's an absolutely And I think it's very So I think that there is a huge, payoff-- to cognitive surplus. And I think technology to a large degree. So in the book I mention this. There's a very famous paper that ago by Sherwin Rosen called And what he argued that increasingly people who than others are getting And it's more like You're getting You guys all know If you look at people with master's versus college with no degrees-- the payoffs. But it's even within there are still very, very in pay. I think there's just going I don't know how we stop this. I've been very influenced &quot;Average Is Over,&quot; and by a couple of-- I actually-- MIT economists. And those stories are-- there is helping everybody's lives. I think in some ways So we all have access to we may not have had cost But it does feel like the is really getting very skewed. I don't know what Well, with that, thank and attention. And have a great day. Appreciate it. [APPLAUSE]