It's early, my man. Before there's one experience So today I'm taking you bodega-slash-breakfast-carts, because one thing quintessential you could pop into a bodega, there's plenty of breakfast in Manhattan where you get an or a chopped cheese. I don't know how I can really Like, you guys have corner shops, right? Yeah, we have corner shops, Tend to be open quite late, but they don't tend to Whereas they do in bodegas? Joe: Yeah, oh yeah, definitely. So think of it as like you know, cafes, I guess. Harry: Yeah, OK. Joe: All right, so the first is Mama Jo's Breakfast Cart. It's not a bodega, I know! I'm starving, though. Let's eat. Can I please have two bacon, Yeah, on a roll. There you go. Thank you so very much. Mama Jo: Thank you. First bacon, egg, and Five bucks. New York City But as you can see, no frills. Just delicious egg, delicious This one comes from the which of course is not a bodega. I kind of bent the rules because because this was voted the best breakfast cart in New York City. Mama Jo gets up every day They close by 11. All right? Early to bed, early to rise makes you healthy, wealthy, But do they make a good They make a fantastic one, And I wanted you to have it. What should I expect biting into this? Amazing deliciousness. to take pictures of you on the street. Joe: Tag me. Harry: Should we give it a go? Joe: Yeah. Joe: How good is this? It's really good. Joe: I have one of these every day. Harry: That's delicious, man. Joe: Now, Mama Jo's, she excels at this. But I want you to understand of the type of sandwich any cart on this island, or Harry: It's really, really good. I can see why most New Yorkers with one of these. It I know there's fried bacon in here, there's cheese in here, heavy or fatty, necessarily. Joe: Every time I get one, &quot;Oh, I don't want to do it with ketchup.&quot; Just something about, it's I'm not into it. And then I forget, and then I bite in and and I'm like, &quot;Actually, I think it works really well with the bacon, of all things, right? A little bit of that salty They've been quite sparing It's not like they've Just a little bit. Joe: But you saw in there, they're cooking on, right? Harry: Tiny. Not a lot of Joe: And you're going to see yeah, it's not this big kitchen setup, it's just something that's right there. Boom, boom, boom, they It's exactly what you need. Hey, man, five American I'm really surprised that we particularly in London or just, like, I guess places where bacon sandwich really easily. Yeah, like a bacon buddy. Budgy? Buddy? What is it called? Harry: Butty. B-U-T-T-Y. Now, the bacon butty, does that come with egg and cheese and ketchup? Can do, not usually. If it does come with egg, it's more likely to be a fried egg rather Ketchup is common. Brown sauce is common. It's harder to get one on the go. I mean, I quite like the I'm going to be honest. I like the American cheese I think that works really, really well. Joe: My guy, they made fun all the ingredients in &quot;Food Wars.&quot; Now you're eating it, what do you think? It's good, yeah. It works. Joe: That's right, yeah. You're like, &quot;That's gross.&quot; Us Americans are like, &quot;Yeah, try it.&quot; Be like, &quot;Bring on the chemicals.&quot; That terrible milk, sodium citrate. It all works, man. It's good. Bring on the borax or whatever's in there. Anyway, next place I'm taking you, it's not going to be a It's going to be a chopped cheese. Your mind is about to be blown. Harry: I'm ready. Harry: Let's go. Joe: So just to confirm, you've never had a chopped cheese before? Harry: Never in my life. Joe: Do you even know Harry: Not really. Joe: Incredibly popular in New York City. You get them all over the place. Every place does it a So, I'm going to take you that claims to be the inventor The home of the chopped cheese. Joe: So, we're here in Harlem. in there. I love them. It's kind of a staple thing Pop into a bodega, grab a chopped cheese. Your neighborhood spot than everybody else. Harry: All right, should we give it a try? Joe: Yeah, definitely. The size of those pickles, man. Joe: [laughs] That's right. A city obsessed with pickles. Harry: Going to watch the master at work. This kind of like the cafes where you're just making Harry: Sort of, yeah. Although I'd say this is more of a uniquely New York experience. Joe: Yeah, definitely. Harry: Perfect. Harry: Thanks so much, man. Joe: Thank you so very much. Joe: And you've got nothing Harry: No, I don't think I've Joe: So as you can see, the hamburger with cheese and onions. There's obviously lettuce and tomato. Put salt and pepper on here. Was there ketchup and ... Harry: Ketchup and mayo. Joe: Yeah. So let's take a bite, and then we'll talk. Harry: All right, man. Mm. I know you get nothing Damn. That's so good. Joe: Fantastic, right? Yeah, New York knows what's up. Harry: I like the ketchup This is a saucy sandwich. Joe: Yeah. I've been to a that do chopped cheese, and This one is on next level, though. I mean, they say they originated it, but they've also certainly Harry: I mean, he said he's like, 1988, I think. Yeah, yeah. Harry: That's a lot of chopped cheese. That's a lot of chopped cheese. Harry: And I think that shows. He really, really knew what he was doing. Watching that guy in action, watching a master craftsman at work. I love the bread on this. He was toasting the rolls. You really get a crisp on the outside. You see how obviously it's going when we went to Philly Nothing like a cheesesteak. There's a few bare-bones similarities. Obviously, you know, it's beef, cheese, and bread in some kind of combination. But the way they've individual ingredients is The crunchy, toasted roll; While it is hamburger, I feel like the quality what I guess was rib eye because I feel like they're just using a really good-quality beef hamburger. It's getting the same Really flavorful and juicy. I mean, this is nothing Like, everyone in the city It's incredibly popular. It's a mainstay of the bodega menu. But it's crazy to me that people come here and they've never heard of this. They don't know what it is. Like, so you've never I think maybe the cheesesteak just has a better PR campaign going on. I guess. But honestly, I feel made by the people for This is just kind of hitting from a satisfying, fast This is sick, man. Yeah, right? Joe: All right, so what'd just in general versus, I don't know, corner shops or cafes I think it's really seem to form much more of in New York than they do in London and possibly just anywhere else. Would you agree with that? Yeah, sure. [burps] It's this nice, like, independent corner store that everyone can kind of always depend to get the groceries they need. You know, hot cup of coffee. I don't really get that in other cities, at least not in America. Harry: No, definitely not in London. I will say, I'm sure some people out there have a corner shop that and they're friendly with the guy. But I think a lot of the you don't get that many A lot of the corner-style or will be things like a small version of a Tesco or a Sainsbury's. And it just doesn't have quite as much of a personal feel to it, because I like the community aspect. It's not just a place where you will go and buy your milk and your newspaper. It's a place where you can get a nice fulfilling meal. I think it's really cool. I like it. All right, I'm glad you liked Taking you to another spot, does chopped cheese a Let's go right now. Harry: All right, man. Joe: All right, spot No. I took you to a regular bodega, and now we've combined the two. We're going to the Bodega Truck. What I like about this guy of the cart that's mobile but also today I want to get of a chopped cheese and a The first two we did combining, No. 3 being the best of both worlds. Right. Real hybrid going on here. I'm here for it. I like it. I feel like it shows how popular if someone has taken I feel like there's demand for it. Must be pretty good. Just to get a temperature, how you feeling right I've got room in the tank. Let's go. Joe: Let's go get a sandwich. Hey, bud, what's happening? Great, great, great. I think we're going to Owner: Good Mawning. Joe: Yeah, yeah, please. Just how long you been doing this truck? Joe: Oh, two years? Nice. And how often are you out on the streets? Nice. I just noticed, you How much are they? The quarter waters are 50 cents? Joe: The dollar slice is a buck 50, the quarter waters are 50 cents, oh, my God, this has to stop. Harry: Does your bodega cat have a name? Harry: Manny. Nice. Joe: Oh, you got the Tims Joe: Oh, for real? Aw, love that. Awesome. Joe: Thanks, man. Have a good one. Harry: Thank you. Chopped cheese meets a Harry: Oh, man. Joe: Bro, are you kidding me? Harry: Oh, look at the cheese pull! I want to point out the so it's running over, not scrambled. And also it's got hash browns in it. Harry: Ooh. But of course I'm seeing bacon. I'm seeing the chopped-up hamburger meats. My guy, he had a ketchup he puts on here. Harry: There's no lettuce or tomato, like there was on the so I would say it's maybe towards the breakfast sandwich I mean, I said it a few times before, but I'll say it again. Everyone's Yeah. Joe: How good is that? Joe: Yeah, this is fantastic. It maybe seemed -- I mean, he said he was doing like, eh, might be overkill. It might be, like, two delicious tastes clashing with one another, but no. Actually, they work perfectly together. It's harmonious, yeah. Joe: I do like, it's a little messier, but I actually like the sunny-side-up egg. I like the yolk kind of flavoring it. Bacon's nice and crispy. There's a lot going on, but it does work. Joe: And the hash brown, hash brown's the secret weapon here. That really gives it It absorbs all the flavors. Fantastic. I would say maybe the first was more of a sort of, like, to work and then I can have a productive morning. I don't know if I would want to eat this as a breakfast food. I feel like if I had this, I would not be answering Joe: Yeah, this is, you eat Fantastic though, right? Harry: It's good, really good. Well, don't get too full-up on that. So, we couldn't leave without trying the homie's chopped cheese. Get in there. The OG, the original. A lot thicker than the last Seeing lettuce and tomato. It's got a mayo and ketchup mix and of course cheese mixed in there. All the same ingredients as Slightly different composition. Joe: Like a roll, right? More of a roll than, like, the hero roll. I'm going in. Harry: Looks very good. Joe: Mm. Wow. Man. Joe: Fantastic. Definitely a heftier sandwich. It feels like there's than there was on the Harry: Yeah, I think I'd agree. Every component is seasoned, Joe: He has his own mix of cheese, right? It's, like, a cheddar-American Harry: OK. This is, like, a beefy boy. Joe: But I mean, if you it's a little bit more, you're getting a little bit more. Man. I just love the way that like this and then add the cheese, it just forms, like, one Joe: Every bite, you get everything in it. Harry: Uh-huh. Joe: You can see why my guy wants to drive around the city and provide this for people who don't It's a really smart idea. It really is. The more of these I eat, the more I'm just like, why do I know, I agree, why not? Now, I notice you're still eating it. I can't stop, man. I'm so full. Well, you're going to have to stop, because I got one more spot to take you, and it's a very special spot that I think you're really going to like. Harry: OK. When the food's this good, but I will. All right. On to the next place. Let's go. Mo: Yes, sir, may I help you today? All right, Mo, I want to do I want you to do it with the ocky way. Sure! Sure, the only way. Can't forget your bev. Harry: Neva, neva, neva. Neva, neva, neva. Joe: What is the ocky Then give us it the ocky way. Harry: With the hash brown Joe: Let's go. Harry: Go on, then. [both laugh] This place, man. This is going to kill us. This bodega has become TikTok famous. This is known as the ocky way. What they do is on top of or any type of sandwich you want, you can grab something off the and they can kind of I'm going with something I saw on TikTok, so I know it's going to be good, they could make one with, We got brownies here. We got Ho Hos. I mean, I've seen some videos I think I saw one where he Which, I don't know, which is funny. I don't know how good it would taste. That might be too far. Do you think they could, do you think they could where he just puts the whole Right? That would be ridiculous. Harry: I will say, American a really good range of So I guess it kind of lends Joe: Yeah. I love how these of, yeah, we'll have it your way. You want us to throw something You know? I don't know how common this is in all of New York. We came here specifically to do this, so. And unfortunately, &quot;the It's all good. We're getting a lot of bacon, baby. Harry: That was, like, 10 We can't forget the bev. We Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah. All right, what are you with bacon, egg, and cheese on honey buns? I mean, I feel like this is Harry: Yeah? Joe: Right? I feel like there's Harry: I don't know if Joe: You never had an Harry: I know they're famous for, like, kind of cap the price at a dollar. Joe: That's right, 99 cents still. Harry: Holding firm. Joe: They even put it on the can, so no one can try and upsell them. Does that track? You an Arizona iced tea would go well with it? Or are you going to go with a Gatorade? Harry: I'm down for of those. I've probably had enough to last me a lifetime. Now that I think about it, it's going to be really sweet Harry: Is there a nice savory iced tea? Joe: I don't think there is. I'm wondering if I want to turn down the sweetness. What else do we have here? Harry: This type of variation This is just so many choices. We have this entire row of fridges. Joe: Arizona iced tea, Arizona iced tea, I mean, they got two whole rows over here. Harry: They've got, like, I'm feeling a little overwhelmed now. My small British brain can't comprehend the choice on offer here. Joe: I feel like this Harry: American cereals also baffle me. Why do you have a Wendy's Frosty cereal? Because Wendy's Frostys are delicious and I don't want to wait I want to have it with my breakfast. I went to shops in the UK that had, like, half of That's really funny that even you guys, you have spaces this small and you still, there's, Harry: I feel like, yeah, I don't know where we're going wrong Joe: Hash brown's going to He's also putting, did shredded cheese in the Harry: Oh, my God. Joe: Come on, dude. Come on. Right? Harry: What a delicious way to die horribly of heart disease. Joe: Dude, this is going to be like a bacon, egg, and cheese McGriddle. Our bacon, egg and cheese McGriddle, yeah. Harry: The bodega McGriddle. These are bodega Harry: Can I see that real quick? Joe: Yeah. Harry: A somewhat alarming I'm sorry, now's the time about your fat and sugar intake? Where have you been this whole week? Where were you this whole video? Harry: True. And I feel like and stuff on it anyway, so Joe: Dude, they're going to sticks and stuff. Suddenly Harry: Oh, my gosh. Harry: Bro. Joe: Cut that bad boy in half. Joe: Yo! Neva, neva, neva. Man. So, this is maybe the I've ever laid my hands on. Honey buns, bacon, egg, a hash brown, covered in syrup. This is massive, dude. This is intense. I want to dig into this right now. I'm glad this is the because I'm going to need to lie down immediately after I take a bite of this. Yeah. Ready? Let's go. Harry: How much of this can I ... can I get this all in one? Let's go. Joe: Mm! Yeah, dude. That's actually amazing. Oh, my God. It's actually kind of good. It's great! I think it's fantastic. It's actually really good. Somehow that all kind of works together. Joe: It all works together. So fantastic. Harry: When he was I was convinced this was two sandwiches, like someone else had ordered. Joe: Maybe he thought he because there was two of us. Harry: Maybe, and then he he was cooking onto one sandwich. Jesus, man. Yeah, the mozzarella for some reason. How does this work? Joe: Everyone's used to being with what's on the menu, what And the fact that, like, and we'll make it work,&quot; I And we could have grabbed, and Welch's fruit snacks, is like, &quot;Yo, this is gonna suck.&quot; Harry: &quot;This is gonna suck. It makes sense. You have all Why not just throw it on a sandwich? People love this. It looks impressive. I was worried it was going you know, the TikTok viral sensation, and that it would But somehow. It's fantastic. Harry: It's actually really good. Yeah, it's really good. Harry: I think the McGriddle That's the vibe that I get The honey buns with the bacon Joe: Yeah. Fantastic. Harry: It's actually fantastic. Joe: All right, it's so let's go someplace else and debrief. Harry: Perfect. Let's go. I mean, that was a bodega experience. I feel like we really a bodega has to offer there. I feel like a real New Yeah. I took you to four All kind of did sandwiches their own way. Three bodegas -- well, two and a cart that's like a bodega, I guess. I really just snuck that in to try a bacon, egg, and cheese. But after all that, what do you think of bodega culture here in New York City? Harry: I love bodega culture. I actually think going back to London, this might be the one thing to there with me if I could. I just think it's a great idea. Like, we have convenience stores, but not many of them have a place where you can also go get It's a nice kind of community I think, compared to some of particularly in London. So yeah, I just think I do think every one of them had one great thing going for them. Mama Jo's, she's been doing it forever, starts at midnight, there all morning. Coffee was incredible; bacon, I love the location Harry: Hajji's, the fantastic sandwich. Really enjoyed that. Joe: Fantastic. Harry: Have to pay homage kind of originated from as well. Joe: Absolutely, absolutely. Bodega Truck, I just love how this guy, he brings the bodega to And I, who knows where but you know, if you see it, guy's going to make you Love the baby Tims This guy had quarter waters up in front that now apparently are 50 cents. Everyone's hurting, man. It's tough times. But those sandwiches, incredible, right? And, of course, ocky way. Ocky way. Man, that honestly shocked I thought it was going to be a gimmick. I took a bite, and I was like, &quot;Oh, man.&quot; Joe: It was incredible. Harry: And then I I'm already thinking have him make next, It really makes it, like, an event. And I know that some people at someone taking a classic and putting what is a very, very unique and different spin on it and maybe could be considered But honestly, the result, man, I don't think you can argue with that. Joe: Yeah, it was really good. And one thing that's for like we just discovered these places. We are not. No one Joe: Yeah, so when you visit you're having a pint with the lads, and they say, &quot;Oy, what What are you going to say? It's really hard to say. I think for a very and possibly my favorite I think Hajji's was really, really great. I thought that chopped I know other people have But that I think was really good sandwich. Simple but elegant, tasty, can't really ask much more than that. Yeah, it was fantastic. Harry: Bodega game in New York is strong.