I want to take you back to the year 1980. 3 years earlier, several personal computers Apple II, TRS-80, and Commodore PET. And while these computers were considered out of reach for a lot of people. By 1979, some more affordable options began and the Atari 400, both of these costing around Now, while these newer computers were cheaper, considerably more advanced graphics and sound These computers were capable of more than customers with fancy video games. And while these computers were more affordable to enter the market which would really bring If you thought I was about to say the Commodore But that wouldn't show up on the market No, I'm talking about the Sinclair ZX-80. This was designed by a company in the UK called its name to Sinclair Research. There was literally one design goal for this That is this computer's distinguishing feature computer would be about cheapness. The ZX80 would lower the bar even more on a do-it-yourself kit, or around a hundred That would be similar to $140 US dollars at As you can see, that's a good bit cheaper And to put this money into perspective, in around $455 US dollars, which means you can less money today. But what did you get for your money? All right, what we have here is the Sinclair Now, while this machine was designed and sold output PAL video and therefor not be compatible However, this particular unit here, you'll So, this is a fairly rare machine, there weren't but this one actually does output NTSC video. Alright, so let's talk about some of the design of this thing. For one thing, you can see that it's just One piece on top, and one on bottom. And you can also see that it's really small. And size, you know the smaller it is, the the plastic. Now, this looks like it would be a ventilation on. There's no actual holes to allow any ventilation On the back, these are the only ports on the I mean, there's no ports anywhere else. All you have back here is a video output port. Now this is an RF modulated port so it's hook this into the antenna jack of your TV. And here you'll notice you have 3 identical One of them is 9 volts DC in. This is the power port. And these two are for a tape recorder. And one of the really annoying things about all of these. So, it is possible, you know, for you to stick theoretically fry something. OK, let's take this thing apart and see In order to take it apart there are these And the way these work is you just need something And then you can remove the whole thing. I am guessing these were cheaper than metal Now we can lift the top off, and as you can Another thing I'd like to point out about edge on both sides, you'll see what looks And also if you look at the inside of the RF shield. It's actually not. It's actually painted on conductive material Very interesting. In fact the simplicity of this machine is The keyboard is almost part of the main PCB. The traces on the PCB definitely look like So, let me give you a little overview of how The most important chip here is this big one, 3.25 Mhz. That speed is most likely picked for a specific These two chips here are static RAM chips, And up here there is a single 4K ROM chip set, BASIC, all of the input/output routines, All of the rest of these chips are just standard So, if you're thinking, well, gee! Where's the audio and video chips? Well, I can answer the audio easily enough. There's not any. This computer has no audio whatsoever. Not even a beep. It's totally silent. OK, well, what about video? Well, technically it doesn't have one of The video itself actually comes out of this shift register. So, it can only produce 8 pixels before being And where does that data come from? If you guessed the CPU, you guessed correctly. The CPU speed of 3.25 Mhz was probably picked video display. In fact, this system is so cheap they didn't ceramic resonator, which you can see here. Well, let's plug this thing in. I'll need an actual television because I'll TV to channel 2. There is no power switch on the computer. Remember, I said it was designed to be as So, as soon as you plug it in, it comes on. Or rather it's supposed to. I think the power port on mine might be a There it goes. OK, so that annoying noise is coming from But since this computer has no actual audio, to zero. OK, I am going to go ahead and try typing You'll notice there are actually different So you don't actually type out the BASIC So, you'll see the word PRINT is right above So, I am just going to push O. And then you'll screen. Now I'll try to keep typing out my program. I have to say this is the worst keyboard in Not only because it is a membrane keyboard, is especially irritating as well. By the way, if you keep thinking the screen aren't imaging it. The CPU in this computer can either run software, But it can't do both at the same time. Hence why most computers had a dedicated video Once you finish a line, it will send it to You are always typing on the bottom of the And there's a surprising reason for this. So here's my program. Now, you might think the screen is actually stopped with an error code. Unlike other computers, the ZX80 only displays The first number of the code is the error that it occurred on. The reason for this is the ROM wasn't large could be printed on the screen. Anyway, so what does error code 5 mean? Well, let's take a look at the manual. Believe it or not, error code 5 means "no And that's why my program ended with an You see, The ZX80 doesn't scroll the screen If it did, then what would happen is the program would stay black and you've never be able the CPU can't display the screen when a But, if you think that is irritating, you The text screen is 32 characters wide by 24 That's not terribly bad by the standards It's better than the VIC-20, and about the But, here's the real problem. That means a full screen of text will use I want you to think about that for a moment, about the motherboard, it only has 1K of RAM So, literally, if you look at the system RAM, used by screen RAM, leaving only 256 bytes It's actually probably even worse than this a little RAM for itself. However, the operating system is very clever. Once you go over 256 bytes, which isn't A single screen full of BASIC commands will intrude into screen memory. It's actually designed to do this, so what from the bottom up. So the more you type, the smaller it will This can be particularly irritating when trying it can get to the point you only have a few Eventually you'll end up with just 1 line The only way to store programs on your ZX80 of course was fairly standard on home computers But there were never any other storage mediums slot of sorts on the back, this was never Oh, and one interesting observation about Notice that the port is a card-edge. This is exactly opposite of how most home would have the card-edge, and the computer connector. This is another one of those weird cost saving You see, the female card edge connector cost So, on a system like an Atari 2600, for example, the console, and that way the hundred or so because they could use the standard PCB style But with the ZX80, they wanted to save every So had there been any game cartridges made the more expensive connector in every cartridge. There were hardly any graphical games. But there were a few, such as this space invaders Granted, I use the term graphical very loosely This game is remarkable, not so much for how given what they had to work with. The most amazing part is that it's able so that the game works simultaneously with OK, let's face it. The ZX80 is a terrible computer. It was designed with one goal in mind, and And while it did achieve that goal, it came down to a glorified calculator that just happened actual real computer. Now, don't get me wrong, the computer was And I suppose a lot of people got their start And so, I can't fault it for that. However, there's probably also a lot of finish in the computer industry because they So, that can go both ways. However, the product did get better. The very next year in 1981, a new model was This computer will be the one most people popular. It's actually even smaller than the ZX80, It has essentially the same membrane keyboard a bit. On the rear it has the same expansion port And on the side it has the same RF style TV just like its predecessor. However, this one does have some significant I'll start by taking it apart, and already Upon seeing the motherboard, it is noticeably And when looking at the other side, you may Let's do a side-by-side comparison of the They both use the same Z80 processor. They both have a ROM chip, although the new They both have a measly 1K of RAM. But, what it is this chip called a ULA? Well, believe it or not, they have essentially into a single custom chip to further reduce So, while the ZX80 was made from more or less a custom chip. These computers are almost the same computer, between them. Obviously, the chip count is smaller on the That's right the ZX81 sold for 49 pounds the USA. The 81 has a larger ROM. The main changes are to BASIC. The original BASIC could only handle integer point and some primitive graphics, which I'll Another big improvement was something called Now, you might think SLOW mode sounds like right? At least in the world of computers. Well, with SLOW mode, the ZX81 can finally It can generate video, while also executing How does it do this? Well, if you look at a screen on a CRT, as a time from the top left, to the bottom right. Well, during the time it is drawing the border is not really needed much. So, the CPU can execute other code during So, in FAST mode, the CPU either devotes all its time to drawing the screen. In SLOW mode, the CPU will multitask and about and what remains is left for executing other And while it does slow things down, during because at least the screen doesn't flicker keyboard. Sinclair also offered previous owners of the Since the computers were more or less identical ROM chip with the newer one, plus a small and they would even receive a new keypad that This upgrade cost about 20% of what it would was a fair strategy. The ZX81 was also destined to make more of Now, Timex brings the power of the computer Introducing the Timex Sinclair 1000. The first of a new generation of computers For 99.95. Power to learn. Timex, yes that's the watch company we all to market the computer in the USA as the Timex On the back of the box it says it utilizes master chip that replaces as many as 18 chips That's interesting because the ZX81 had It also states that it comes with 2K of RAM. Still not much, but it's twice as much as Timex also sold a 16K RAM module, and a tiny So, let's open it up and see what's inside. Even the foam has the Timex logo. It's pretty obvious my box is missing a But it does at least have the user manual. And this manual is not bad. It's not as good as the VIC-20 manual, but Let's compare it with the ZX81. Other than the logo, they look identical. But there are some other minor differences. For one thing, on the keyboard they changed For example, we have Rubout here, and the On the side, you may notice the RF video output But, they do have the same expansion port. Ok, let's take a look at this RAM module. While 2K of RAM is certainly an improvement, And that's enough RAM to actually be useful, graphics modes, so there is no need to store DOS for controlling disk drives. So, all of the 16K is available for use. Of course, it does have the female edge connector And, so it attaches like this. This one is pretty tight, which is good. I have had them kind of loose before, which computer would make it lock up due to the Timex also marketed a few cassette based applications, was sold. I have no idea what that is. But one thing I wanted to mention is that 2K of RAM. Same with money analyzer. But notice this one says it needs 16K. And another. This is somewhat unusual for the era because were rarely supported by software, so this popular for this computer. Even though there was really no commercial quite a few home-brew games developed. Most games were found in computer magazines. Some were type in listings printed in the ads where you would send off to get a cassette None of these games are likely to impress However, I do find some of them impressive for. Officially speaking, the Sinclair units have They do contain a character set with several the Commodore and TRS-80 models. By using these you can create pseudo graphics. And even if it did have a graphics mode, there the base models. However, since the graphics are software generated, you can actually do custom hi-res graphics, There weren't very many that took advantage are fairly impressive. There are also some demos that make use of There were also a variety of methods to get cassette port to generate some simple beeps, generator chips from other platforms, however, either. Another popular upgrade modification was in which, when combined with a RAM upgrade could tolerable computers to work on. The Timex unit was at one point selling for One funny situation this created is that Commodore to give people a $100 credit for the trade So, many people realized they could buy the in for a $100 credit on a Commodore. Of course, A couple of years later, Timex This version comes standard with 16K of RAM Here we go. It has all the same ports on the back. But one thing I notice right away is that thing compared to the previous units. Now, the keys are chiclet keys, which are However, compared to the membrane keyboard I guess everything is relative. The user manual for the 1500 is also pretty Let's have a look inside. It's a little more advanced, and obviously The ULA is now in a square package instead But the overall architecture is almost identical The 1500 was ultimately a market failure, the same price as its predecessor, only its you could actually like do stuff with. The problem was the competition was fierce the Commodore VIC-20, but also from Sinclair's which we'll talk about in another episode. The Sinclair ZX81 can be seen in some TV shows a few times. And while not actually shown, it's mentioned I think the Sinclair systems were kind of cost of computing down. But, to compare them with cars, for a moment. Buying a ZX81 was sort of like buying one see in Wal-Mart and claiming you bought a Where, buying a VIC-20 at the time was sort I mean, sure, they are cheap but at least And so we're not quite done talking about cover the Sinclair Spectrum, which was a far in the UK and we'll get to that in a later But, as far as these systems go, they are of computer jokes for one thing, but beyond bringing the cost of computing down. And just for their sheer simplicity. I mean, some of the design decisions they made the computers less usable, some of them down and actually have a computer that can And so, they do deserve recognition for that. And, so that about wraps it up for this episode, around for the next one.