- [Lucy] Tic Tac Toy - This video is sponsored by Spin Master. (upbeat music) - The Cutie Patootie Drive-Thru is open for the day! Cute mouthwatering meals. And the most incredible Hurry before we're all sold out. - Yay! We get Cutie Patootie - Yup! I drove through on the I knew I wouldn't have - They always have the best I can't wait to see what I got. - [Both] Uni-Verse! - Oo! What are those?! - Just the coolest thing ever! - Yeah mom. There's a You can see mine here. And when you put it in - No way! Really?! - Yeah! And then you get bags inside the cloud. - Well, I better get you - [Both] Yes, please! (bouncy music) (packaging rattling) - Look how cute my cloud is! - And look, mine's crying rainbows. - And Maya, I heard there in one of the bags inside. - Yeah! 42 unicorns to collect. - Okay girls, here are your I will be back in just a little bit. I'm going to go finish - [Both] Okay. Thanks mom! - Okay, put yours in first Addy. - Okay, here I go! (upbeat music) - Whoa! - [Maya] Your water's turning blue. - And it's slimy water. Let's open my surprise bags now. (packaging rattling) - Oh, check this out Addy! The blue water means that your - So cool! Let's get 'em open now! (packaging rattling) - How cute is she? - Adorbs! And check out that hair! - Let's open the second bag - I heard it's either a Toot or a Tear. - [Addy] Ah! It's a Toot - A cute Toot! - [Addy] I think so too. - Time for bag number three. - Which should have two - What cha get?! What cha get?! - [Addy] An adorable handbag and a bow. - So fab Addy! (upbeat music) - Cute! Now for the bag. (upbeat music) - And I heard that you can between all the unicorns. - [Addy] Oo! Super cool. Now we'll open the fourth bag (upbeat music) Her name's Dilly Dolly Dotty! - And what's on the back of the card? - [Addy] Oo. Scratch-offs. - We'll use Dilly's unicorn (upbeat music) - What does it say? - It looks like there's - So that means she's extra unique. - So super cool! - Scratch off the rest! - Okay! (upbeat music) - She doesn't like combs? - And it looks like her - And what does she love? (upbeat music) - It looks like socks! - Check out the Are there more unicorns from Fantasy Land? - [Addy] Yeah, it looks like there's six. There's Dilly Dolly Dotty. Look at this little yellow symbol. It means that she has fun hair! - Whoa! There's so many I can't wait to see which ones I got! - Well, I think it's time to find out! (energetic music) - Whoa! Your water's turning yellow! - What land does that mean she's from? - [Addy] It looks like - So cool. Time to get my bags open. - One (packaging rattling) two (packaging rattling) three (packaging rattling) four. - Open your unicorn first! - Whoa, she's adorable. - [Addy] She's got some awesome hair too! - Yeah and she's got spots like a cow too. - She sure does. Open - [Maya] Whoa It's a milk carton and a necklace. - Aw, put it on her. - [Maya] How does she look? - Adorbs, now let's see who her friend is. - Will it be a Toot or a Tear? - [Maya] It's a Toot! - And it has a cow pattern on it too! - And now time for the card. (energetic music) - Moo Moo Molly! From Pet Party Peak. - Now you do your scratch offs. (energetic music) - So what does it say Maya? - She loves books. She hates tuna. And her favorite drink is milk. - I could've guessed that she had on her. And what's her uniqueness level Maya? - She's extra unique just like yours! - So cool! And Maya check out all these come from. - [Addy] There's Sweet Treats Landing. Pet Party Peak Glam-A-Ganza Land Plus Nummy Bay, Superstar City, Fantasy Land and Mist-terious Land! Wow! - All right! I got my slime sorted. How's that food coming girls? - Oh, I don't know. But these Uni-verse are more amazing than we thought they would be. - Yeah, we have to head back to the Cutie Patootie Drive Thru right away. We need more Cutie Meals! - She's right mom! We have to - But girls, you haven't Cutie meals I just bought you! - We promise we'll eat later. - No way! We can't just waste all this food just Although these are pretty cute. - See what we mean? - Please! - Well... No that's just wasteful. Lis10 girls, I need to I'm going to run to the cookie carwash. You girls eat your food! - [Both] Bummer. - See you girls later. - Bye mom. I've got an idea Addy! - That was quick! Let me hear it. (upbeat music) - Okay chef! Here are my ideas We'll put a giant cotton candy - Magnificent! - Then, we'll have an ice that corner with tons of toppings. - Grand idea! (telephone ringing) - Oh! Excuse me for just one second. Toy Cafe, this is Lulu speaking! - Hi Lulu, it's Addy. I was wondering if you Maya and I to deliver lunch for you? - Um, you do realize that we And that we're surrounded by toy food? - Yes, but I know you two Drive Thru. - Oo! Cutie Patootie Drive Thru?! - I'll take a Cutie meal - Wow, you're awfully eager Chef. - Okay! The Chef will take and fries. And I'll take nuggets and tots please! - Okay, I've got your order down. - So what's all this about anyways? Why are you so eager - We're just looking out - Well that's super sweet of you. - And tell you what, we'll in exchange for the toy - Sounds fair. - Perfect. We'll see you soon. (phone clicks on receiver) Oh Maya, it's time to grow (toy car whirring) - There it is! Up there! - Oh yeah! (whirring of toy car) - Welcome to the Cutie I'm Casey, can I take your order please. - Yes Casey. We'd like to - One with hot dogs and fries. One with chicken nuggets and tots please. - Scrumptious choices! the next window please. - Oh and those come with Uni-verse right? - Oh but of course. Our Cutie meals come with nothing but the best of the best toys sweetie pie. - Perfect! - Next window please! (energetic music) - 10 toy dollars please! - Sure thing. - Thank you! Your meal - Oh, okay then. (energetic music) - There sure are a lot of windows here. - You can say that again. - Here you go girls. Two cutie meals. One with a hotdog and fries. The other with chicken and tots. Both with Uni-verse! - [Both] Perfect! (whirring of toy car) - Thanks for coming to the See you next time. - Here you go! - Wow! That was really - Ah, yes! And it smells so delicious! - And here's the money for the food girls. Will you stay and eat with us? - No thanks. We have things to do. - And speaking of things to business to take care of. - Oh right! I almost forgot, the toys! - Yes, please! - Uni-verse?! If I would've known. - We wouldn't have agreed - Thank you! - Welp, at least we got our food. I am starving. - Me too. (paper rattling) (upbeat music) - My water's turning blue again! - And mine's pink. - That means yours is from - Time to get the bags out of (upbeat music) - Unicorns first Maya. - No way! This is the one I wanted! - [Addy] And check out mine. She is so precious. - Let's add the accessories now. (upbeat music) - No way! Mine loves Check these out! - Wow! And I got wings and a - Let's get 'em on! (upbeat music) - We couldn't have gotten cuter ones Maya. - And we have their friends to open next. (upbeat music) Is it a Toot or a Tear? It's a Tear! - Mine is too! Super fun. - Now let's learn all about our Unis (bouncy music) - I got Arcadey Sadey, from FuntasyLand! - And I got Glammin' Cameryn from Glam-A-Ganza Land. Now it's time for the scratchers. (energetic music) - Okay so Glammin' Cameryn loves to paint, loves kabobs, hates shopping. I don't even know how that's possible. - Me neither. Check out She loves video games, eats hamburgers, and doesn't like when the batteries low. So she's just like me! - Well now we have four - Which means we only - Are you thinking what I'm thinking? - I think I am. (bouncy music) - Wow. Addy did a really assignment. This is an A+ for sure. (telephone ringing) Toy school, this is Ms. Lucy speaking. - Hello Ms. Lucy, it's Maya. - Well hello there Maya. How can I help you? - Well, I had a feeling you grading papers all day. - Oh, well you sure do know me Maya. - And I thought, &quot;I bet Ms. Lucy has been forgot to eat lunch.&quot; - You know what? You're right! I worked right through lunch. - Well, Addy and I would Cutie meal and deliver it right to you. - Really? That would be great! - All we ask is that you would - Deal! I'm so hungry that I'll take two meals. One with a grilled cheese a hot dog and fruit cup. - Coming right up. (upbeat music) - Here are your two cutie meals girls. You two must be like, super hungry today. - Yeah, I guess you say that. - Well, enjoy those delicious Uni-verse. - Oh, we will for sure! - Oh! And did you know the come in a whole bunch of finishes? Some are metallic, some are scented, some are flocked. Some have rooted hair, some are liquid-filled. Oh, there are even some There's glow-in-the-dark, Oh! There's even some - Well that makes me I want to get ours open. - Oh okay! Well thanks for Drive Thru. We'll see you girls next time! (toy car whirring) Bye! - H E A - Here you go Ms. Lucy! - Have a good day! - Oh doesn't this just smell Addy and Maya? Well where are they in (upbeat music) - Okay Addy. Super Starry She's got a microphone her clothing. - It's like she's a pop star - Who did you get Addy? - Lotsa Mozza Ella She's a pizza lover with a mustache. - And her hair even looks like a pizza! - [Addy] You're so right. - Let's do the scratchers and (upbeat music) It looks like Super Starriana love bows. - And mine loves to eat - That Uni sounds just like you too. - And Lotsa Mozza Ella - Mine doesn't like hot sauce, but she loves caramel apples. - And what's her uniqueness level? - One golden star means she's unique. And she's from Superstar City. - Cool. Mine's unique too. (upbeat music) - Well, six down and 36 to go. - Now who else do we know right about now? (telephone ringing) - The phone! Toy Hotel, Bellhop Jason - Hi Bellhop Jason, it's Addy. I wasn't expecting you - Oh hi Addy. It's been a crazy busy Lucy must've stepped - Busy huh? Then I bet you two have - Well, now that you mention - Perfect. (energetic music) - Welcome to the Cutie... Oh, it's you two again. How in the world are you still hungry? - Well, we actually aren't hungry. We're just trying to grow - Yeah, and we'll take cheeseburgers and tots please. - Well then I'll be if you want to collect all 84! We'll be like BFFs. - I'll see you guys at the next window. 10 toy dollars please. - Wait a minute! Did she say there's 84 - Um, I think so. (toy car whirring) - Excuse me, did you say there were - Yeppers! Sure did. I'll see you at the next - Huh? I'm going to need a bit (toy car whirring) - Hello again! Two Cutie meals! You girls enjoy! - Wait a minute Casey! We thought there were - Why do you keep saying 84? - Oh! There are 42 unicorns but there's going to be Fall 2020. That means you can collect 84 unicorns by the end for 2020. I'm so good at math aren't I?! - Um, yeah. I guess so. - 84 to collect! Maya you know what that means don't you?! - That we need to get a move on. - Yep! - Thanks for coming to the (energetic music) - [Both] Food's here! Gotta run! - Wow! I guess we aren't the Mm! Looks good. - I can't believe I got Char Ming Ming. - Me neither. And she's a fuzzy velour. - Yeah, she comes from the Pet Party Peak and she comes with the cutest Toot. And check out her - So super cute. - And who did you get Maya? - You won't believe it Addy. She's an extra unique. (upbeat music) Meet Antarctica from She loves snowman, hot chocolate but she doesn't like the sunshine. - I can see why. She's all decked out for winter. - And she's a translucent unicorn. - Well, our collection is (upbeat music) (energetic music) - Wow! That Cookie Carwash Before I head home though, I think I'll get a little I know how badly they (toy car whirring) - What's this?! &quot;Closed: sold out of cutie How could they possibly Well, I guess the girls won't collection today. (toy car whirring) (upbeat music) - Ah... our collection is so amazing Maya. Which one's your favorite? - Hmm... I really love Goddess Goldy But my favorite is probably - Yeah, I can't believe - [Maya] And she's scented and she's from Nummy Bay. - And ya gotta love a Uni - Oh for sure. Whose your favorite Addy? - Definitely Whan-Whan Mia She's from the Glam-A-Ganza Land. - Yeah, I still can't believe - Yeah, and there's even And her accessories are super cute Maya. She's got a tube of these big red lips! - Plus isn't she super-duper unique? - Yep! She's one of the - So super cool. - Yeah, and I can't believe Cutie Patootie Drive Thru one day. - I know! And when did Casey say there would be more Uni-verse in stock? - Hopefully by tomorrow. - Well I hope we have some more - Me too. But for now let's play with our Uni-verse. - [Lucy] This video was (bouncy music)