- [Presenter] For most of us, a mobile phone is a part of our lives. But I'm sure you're curious minds have always been struck by such questions as how a mobile phone makes a call, and why there are different generations of mobile communications? (upbeat music) Let's explore the technology When you speak on your phone, your voice is picked up by The microphone turns your with the help of MEMS sensor and IC. The digital signal contains your voice in the form of zeros and ones. An antenna inside the phone and transmits them in the Electromagnetic waves by altering the wave characteristics, such as the amplitude, frequency, phase, or combinations of these. For example, in the case of frequency, zero and one are transmitted by using low and high So, if you could find a way to transmit these electromagnetic waves to your friend's phone, you would be able to establish a call. However, electromagnetic waves are incapable of traveling long distances. They lose their strength of physical objects, electrical equipment, and some environmental factors. In fact, if there were no such issues, even then, electromagnetic waves due to the Earth's curved structure. To overcome these issues, using the concept of cellular technology. In cellular technology, a geographic area is with each cell having its Generally, these cell towers or more specifically, These optical fiber cables or the ocean, to provide national or The electromagnetic waves are picked up by the tower in your cell and convert them into high These light pulses are carried located at the base of the tower for further signal processing, After processing, your towards the destination tower. Upon receiving the pulses, the destination tower radiates it outwards in the form of electromagnetic waves, and your friend's phone This signal undergoes a reverse process, and your friend hears your voice. So, it's true that mobile communications are not entirely wireless, they do use a wired medium too. This is how mobile However, there was a big issue that we intentionally left unanswered. Mobile communication is only successful when your tower transfers the But how does your tower know in which cell tower area Well, for this process, from something called a The MSC is the central point Before moving further, let's explain more When you purchase a SIM card, all the subscription information is registered in a specified MSC. This MSC will be your home MSC. The home MSC stores information your current location, If you move outside the the new MSC, which serves you instead, is known as a foreign MSC. As you enter a foreign MSC region, it communicates with your home MSC. In short, your home MSC always knows which MSC area you are in. To understand in which cell within the MSE area, the MSC uses a few techniques. One way is to update after a certain period. When the phone crosses a the location update is again done. The last one of these is Let's try to understand with an example. Suppose, Emma wants to call John. When Emma dials John's number, the call request arrives Upon receiving John's number, the request will be Now, John's MSC checks If John is in his home MSC, the call requests will be immediately sent to his current cell location, and it checks whether John or if his mobile is switched off. If everything is positive, and the call will be connected. However, if John is not in his home MSC, John's home MSC simply to the foreign MSC. The foreign MSC will follow the previously to locate John's phone, and will then establish the call. Now, let's discuss why is quite important in To transfer zeros and ones each subscriber is However, the frequency spectrum available for cellular communications and there are billions of subscribers. This issue is solved with one frequency slot distribution, and two, multiple access technique. In the first technique, different frequency slots to different cell towers. In the multiple access technique, this frequency slot is amongst all the active Now, the big question. Why are there different generations of mobile phone technologies? 1G originally allowed to carry a phone without But 1G suffered from two major problems. The first problem was that was in an analog format. Analog signals that are easily So, it provided poor voice The second problem was that it used the frequency division which used the available These factors paved the way of mobile communications, 2G used digital multiple access or CDMA technology. The second generation also introduced a revolutionary and internet browsing. 3G technology was focused on giving a higher data transfer speed. It used a WCD multiple access technique, along with an increase in bandwidth. To achieve this, the 3G speed of two Mbps allowed the transfer of data for uses such as GPS, videos, 3G was a huge step in the transformation of the basic phone to a smartphone. Next came 4G, which achieved This was suitable for high This higher speed was made possible due to the OFD multiple access technology, and MIMO technology. MIMO uses multiple inside both the mobile The next generation of to be rolled out soon, will use enhanced MIMO It will provide seamless connectivity to support the internet of things, such as driverless cars and smart homes. Would you like to learn Please check out this video. Please don't forget to and your support at Thank you.