At the beginning of the 17th century, a new The mobile and powerful troops of this new difficulties for the Chinese armies. Only after to them--they equipped their border fortresses with be enough to ward off the threat from the north? influenced the war between the Ming How China Introduced Western Artillery combines the heat of the tropics, the cold of new power emerged around 1600. Like Genghis Khan the Jurchen people of the region. As Because he gained tried to gain the support of China by Ming. Nurhaci proved to be a loyal vassal until Jurchen, he proclaimed his own dynasty, the Later as the "Seven Grievances" against the Ming. In The Ming responded by sending a punitive mission in the Battle of Sarhu in the spring of 1619. The capital of the Qing, from four sides, to besiege Du Song, the general approaching directly from the at the Hun River. Just as his troops crossed the using the spring tide to split Du Song's army in groups. The other three parts of the Chinese southernmost in the south east route (Liu Ting) on the northernmost route (Ma Lin) were overrun from the southern most route had to retreat Ming lost over 45,000 men and achieved nothing. that his troops struggled with Nurhaci's the Jurchens' success was due to the so-called encompassed all the families under their rule. troops. In battle, these were divided into niru, cavalry. As a result, they were very mobile and through quick maneuvers and sudden assaults. decided to use artillery as a force multiplier. distributed them to the most important border this brought little success. Although the they skillfully used their superior mobility. They out of their positions and confronting them on when capturing the vital border town of small forts in the surrounding countryside, set up and began plundering the area. When the defenders a battle ensued, and the commander of the their leader, the men of Shenyang had little to city of Liaoyang and around 70 fortified towns The historian Nicola di Cosmo assumes that Ming initially set up their cannons outside the reason, a common practice at the time. At least, the use of artillery, such as this one depicting case, the cannons were exposed, and the Jurchen when the Ming positioned the cannons on the in 1626, did their strategy lead to success. deploying artillery. Because of this, they sought converted to Catholicism (Xu Guangqi [1562-1633], and had close contact with the Jesuit missionaries experts. For example, Minister Xu Guanqi of Western instructors. After considerable back bring experts to Beijing and have them train his killed a Portuguese artilleryman and some the government's skepticism. Only when a second who was stationed in Shangdong Province near Minister of War, Sun Chengzong, that more modern Ming embarked on a larger-scale modernization 8,000 artillerymen over three months, and More and more of these guns were Western-style these weapons around 100 years earlier. They and on ships folangji, "frankish guns," and the sieges hongyipao, "red barbarian cannon," named first brought them to China. Although Chinese the Ming military engineers realized that the own and began buying and copying them. The the hands of trained men was demonstrated In 1625, the Ming called a complete halt to north of the Great Wall of China to the south. As but essential outpost. It was defended by around including 11 brand-new Portuguese guns, of the wall but rather on top of it. Nurhaci's ran into a deadly volley from the defenders on the city three more times, but neither ladders were of any use to them. They were beaten the cannons, and finally had to retreat. This war--and his last. He was hit by a cannonball The Ming were now fully convinced of the expanded their defense system and used their armies. The Jurchen had also come to understand traditional methods. Although they were still were severely disadvantaged in extended sieges. to conquer China. Therefore, Nurhaci's son and He prepared his troops specifically for siege by creating eight more banners from the allied into his army. According to Paul Lococo, this was Chinese troops were recruited from among conquered numerous thanks to Jurchen propaganda. They wanted to get rid of the corrupt Ming government later name, Qing, which precisely translates to and he was able to form a Chinese contingent, soldiers, which suited the Jurchen because of unit particularly important during sieges. with the Ming regarding artillery. He acquired from the newly conquered Korea to produce more. artillerymen among the newly recruited Chinese. reformed army was called to action was 1631. Dalinghe was one of three fortress towns defensive line. When Hong Taiji's troops reached his father had usually done, but ordered them to Dalinghe was surrounded by around 100 small forts, was complete, Hong Taiji had his cannons raze time, he used his cavalry to ensure they were he defeated a relief army of around 40,000 men significant fort surrendered a few weeks later, were successful. He had conquered one of the The guns that fell into the hands of the Jurchen first proper artillery units. After the battle, and produce new guns. Hidden in the deep forests hundreds of guns was established very quickly. a modern, powerful army. Whether it was a match In 1636, Hong Taiji officially claimed the formally named his people Manchu, and began an saw the Battle of Song-Jin, which is often between the two dynasties. The battle was fought Qing had already tried several times to conquer but had repeatedly failed due to the superior therefore, confident they could repel this no idea how powerful Hong Taiji's The Qing came from the north and first surrounded siegeworks to keep all support Ming forces at a this, Hong Taiji was not impressed when a relief himself, arrived south of the city in the fall of Mount Rufeng. His troops were ready and waiting cannons. When Hong Chengchou's men attacked, they they assaulted the defenses for several hours, their rear. When the Ming soldiers realized desperate fighting retreat, around 10,000 Hong Taiji surrounded this city as well. As defenders kept the besiegers at a distance with six months, hunger forced them to surrender. Hong had mastered both siege warfare and the use of he had turned the weak points of his troops into army, which had repeatedly had a rough time with could take on the greatest military power in Asia. further south until they had conquered almost captured and executed in 1662, resistance was for the Ming cause was the general and pirate he fled to Taiwan, seized the island from the Zeelandia, and founded the Kingdom of Tungning, continued this legacy until Taiwan fell in 1683,