(train honking) - [Narrator] This railway is at the heart of a high stakes battle, between the US and China for It's the Benguela railway, part of the Libito Atlantic Railway, which connects Angola to in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The line is crucial for essential for things like EV batteries and other green technologies For years, China has led Africa's pouring hundreds of billions of dollars into projects like But a successful US-backed bid to restore the rail line across the continent. (upbeat music) The Benguela railway isn't new. It was built in 1902 and has always been but it was severely damaged - If you go on the rail line, you can see some blown You can see rail cars that - [Narrator] After the war ended, Angola needed to rebuild and China stepped in to fill that need. So in 2006, Angola agreed to of Chinese companies to But poor construction and malfunctioning safety and frequent derailments - There's something like which is extraordinary. The stations weren't well built. There's all sorts of that just isn't working, and so the entire rail line - [Narrator] But this time, Angola turned down a proposal from the Chinese Government to renovate and manage the same neglected railway. Instead, it awarded a 30-year contract, which the United States with a $250 million loan. The $1.7 billion project will fix the train tracks and stations, add over 1500 wagons and It will also give countries eager to advance their greater access to critical raw materials, like nickel and cobalt. - The big topic on Africa is all about critical and security of supply. - [Narrator] Demand for these elements is expected to increase by which has fueled interest and the Democratic Republic of Congo, the world's largest producer of cobalt. The project is expected to be a key source of economic opportunity for - So, hope that they will both and also create jobs and - Historically, you can see they attract people, especially if they're - [Narrator] China's has played a major role in Africa's recent Launched by Chinese its goal is to boost China's through infrastructure, China loaned African from 2000 to 2022, and - The Chinese in Angola provided roads, railways, football - [Narrator] But the from around the world environmental impact and And it's left some countries - Those are debts that - [Narrator] In a response to The Journal, the Chinese government said that the Belt and Road Initiative was not accountable for African debt. In recent years, China's and investments in Africa have plummeted. Lending dipped below $1 billion in 2022, hitting a nearly two decade low. - China has been looking at that it hasn't had the sort of returns that it was expecting. And so it's a lot more risk averse in terms of its investment portfolio. - [Narrator] This law gave the but the US isn't just interested in pushing back against China's It also hopes to secure key resources for future technological advancements. - Copper in particular, will prove vital as from old style energy production. - [Narrator] The Biden Administration has put a focus on strengthening with Africa. In 2022, the government set out a plan for a modern US-Africa partnership and promise to invest $55 - The United States has in doing business in Africa, and I think the Biden that will change and is - [Narrator] And while it by other countries in the region. - The Biden Administration of saying to African countries, we understand you have with the Chinese, with the Russians. We're not saying you have to give that up, but here's what we offer - [Narrator] And the offers don't stop at the Lobito Corridor Project, the US is funding solar energy projects and other infrastructure but US investments in compared to what the provided over the past 20 years. - Still doesn't measure up to what the Chinese have done across Africa, but it is a start and I think that African countries are starting to notice - [Narrator] However, the might still benefit the Chinese. - There's also a reality that the Libito Corridor will not exclude the export of minerals to China along it. It's not a monopoly railroad and the EU. It's for free trade. - [Narrator] And this corridor of more US investment in Africa. - The final blueprint would be railroads from the Atlantic to the Indian Ocean - And the United States is into whether that's feasible and who knows, maybe someday (upbeat music)