Music Reality - captured in user friendly symbols Music The Idea Channel Would you please join me in welcoming Dr. Milton Friedman. (Applause) Thank you ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad tempted after the title, "What Is Wrong mark, to say "nothing" and turn around (Laughter) That would make it easier on all of us, but to be honest. What I want to talk about tonight are, first and second of all, why it is that the noble of the welfare state have produced results of whether they were initially in favor or and finally, ask ourselves what if anything about it? As to the origins of the welfare state, they was published quite a long time ago by a man and it referred to a group of people in Great century, 150 and more years ago. William Oastler, from the upper classes of the British aristocracy of the ordinary people of the lower classes whole series of legislation--the so-called then Ten-hour Day Act, and so on--which they oblige. Their whole attitude was, "After what's good for people, we are among the man, we don't want to force it down his structured society he would recognize that task of structuring things for his benefit." had at that time, and it is in many ways the level behind the movement for the welfare The closest modern descendant of that movement Radical today. He and those who share his who know what is good for the ordinary man, on the ordinary man, but who believe that superiority of the elite, and assign to them what products are available, and so on. The It's an attempt to do good for other people. Now interestingly enough, the other source different yet not wholly unrelated tradition. Germany, as it was established in the late state, and it was the first modern state which of welfare measures that have become common The movement toward a welfare state in its the early decades of the twentieth century. small measures Britain started down the path one contingency after another. What ultimately its start in the early 1900s in the main, the old and for the mentally deficient. It Many of you will remember a very famous book Sweden was establishing a new, different means. relatively late. It came to the United States 1930s after the Great Depression and the beginning Now the interesting thing is that in every United Kingdom has obviously been having great For a while everybody was saying, "Ah, but trouble; it is having great difficulties. a minor matter because the substance hasn't and a great deal of economic difficulty. Denmark moved farther and farther down the road, we what has occurred. In the case of the United of the United Kingdom, and many British have done so, to the consequences of World War I and World War II. To say that World War that would have provided the leadership for capacity. And yet, in a great book that was edition was published in 1913, A. V. Dicey, what was going to happen in Britain in coming between Law and Public Opinion in the Nineteenth to happen from the developments that were in the 1880s and 1890s, a turn from individualism going to be the far-reaching consequences to the state vis-a-vis the individual. And there is nothing that has happened from that so that it wasn't the war. In any event, was the war that caused the problems in the profited enormously on an economic level from that have been arising in Sweden on the war. The thing about the welfare state is that fine. To begin with, you are imposing taxes are able to give considerable benefits to is that as time goes on, more and more people given a chance, at a part of the proceeds. 50 percent of the people are providing benefits you ultimately get to the position where 100 order to provide benefits to 100 percent of which Frederic Bastiat described so well is that fiction whereby everybody believes The question remains, however, what goes wrong? to such disappointing results? After all, of the ordinary man, of eliminating poverty and against mishaps of fortune--those are is anybody who can regard them as an undesirable. noble objectives by using the machinery of are so disappointing? In my opinion the fundamental answer is very objectives means trying to do good with someone with someone else's money there are two is that nobody spends somebody else's therefore you are going to have waste and is that you cannot do good with someone else's And therefore- force, coercion, sending a pocket, is at the very heart of the welfare bad means corrupt the good intentions. When the end result is likely to be that the badness the objectives. New York City provides a perfect illustration that is more welfare state oriented. There world, that have so long a list of programs of difficulty. Some five or ten years ago wrote an article about the problems in New was no problem New York had which could not money on it. Since he wrote, the budget of of which he spoke- have gotten worse rather if the government spends money on it, somebody has been spending more money on these problems problems, because the government can get money else. And since no one spends somebody else's not surprising that money spent by governmental less efficient results than if people had It so happens, of course, that New York has not having one of those printing presses on so that, unlike Great Britain, unlike Sweden, fiscal problems of New York could not be concealed to acquire resources for a time with inflation. proven a very fruitful resource and it has but New York fortunately had no such recourse, and more sharply. In lieu of a printing press, to go down to Washington. But given the great of the country, those missions to Washington is that on a fiscal level New York is bankrupt. largely irrelevant; the fact remains that because of, the attempt to do good with other a necessary consequence, of the welfare state But a second consequence is a loss of freedom. or bad, there is going to be a loss of freedom. have lost freedom in a double sense. The City of New York have lost freedom. They may elect power in running New York is now in the hands New York to supervise the bankrupt City of have very little power to do anything. So individuals have lost freedom in a more important that considerable part of their income which no longer have freedom to dispose of it. As housing area, to enter into contracts with their neighbors. Here to before, was enormously prescient and farsighted, He was talking about a measure to provide asylums, if you want to call them that, or Deficiency Act is the first step along a path but which, if too far pursued, will bring without considerable interference with individual across difficulties hard to meet without considerable You are all aware of how depressingly true He talked about Mental Deficiency Acts and their equivalent as a way of disciplining obviously suffering from a disease of being in a hospital where he can get appropriate What's true in the case of the Mental Deficiency If we assign to others the task of taking pursue our own lives as we would. Now let me turn from this general analysis the welfare state measures have so almost invariably If you ask anybody, people who call themselves myself wish to apply to them. I am a liberal; and pertaining to freedom. Those people who the term because for them it simply means money. (Laughter and applause) But suppose you asked one of those people do you think about public housing? Do you he'll say, "that program had some bad houses in St. Louis, the Pruitt Igoe Houses; We have in the course of public housing torn up. In every city and state of the country of crime and indigence. They have done harm. along these lines when quite some many years Watts riots. I had a guided tour through the was guiding me was a wonderful fellow who trade union for self-help for the people in some houses over there; they look pretty good--those he said to me, "That? That's the worst "Those are public housing." And then he really helps the youngsters in Watts to segregate all the divided families? Because after all, in which the family is broken up. So you have their parents all put together in the one work with. That's terrible. We need to have said is right. Wherever it's been used, you ask the proponents of it, people who have but then they will say, "But that's because more money on it. We ought to have scattered we ought to have this, that, or the other that the reaction is: what we have done in because we haven't done it right; we ought I can understand that attitude in the 1930s, on the road and when we had not sufficiently but it is much harder to understand in the behind us, and we have seen exactly the same Doesn't the time come when we have to say, the system that's wrong"? Why is the system wrong? Fundamentally, it's in the political arena as they work in the to look at economic organization and political we come to the economy as economists, political laws of its own. We ask if you change this, will treat people in the market as pursuing get the highest wages, the consumer will try try to get the best deal, the producer will we come to the political arena, we tend to say, well now, let's figure out what would of view, let's persuade our fellows to vote have the results we want. But surely we have We have to say that people who are in the also trying to do what's best for themselves. trying to maximize the number of votes they they are trying to act in such a way as to don't mean that in any invidious way; I'll (Laughter) ...but at the moment I don't want to start in that position, we're going to pursue our own interest, they don't have to be world have pursued their own interest as they his own interest. As a great friend of mine, says: "There is one thing you can depend depend on him. You can always depend on him So if we're going to analyze the political kind of market in which there is also competition. million dollars for whatever program, no matter dollars to get it to go to them instead of distributed, well then you'd better go out If you have a perfectly operating market, you will end up with...just as equilibrium so equilibrium in the political market leads going to distribute a million, people spend started from. This is not a fanciful view. Let me give you strictly in the welfare state area, but in the issuance of TV and radio licenses. If a license for a TV station, under the law FCC. That license will immediately be worth We could name some fortunes in this country names would even be known to you. Now...given you are interested in getting one of these a lot of effort and energy and money to making And so you will go in for a big publicity legislators, you will see if there is some on the commissioners, you may put on a big developing a fancy package, and so on. You not only do you spend money--there is only it will pay 10 or 100 people to spend some average, it will pay the whole of them to of the TV license once distributed. Nobody program. Take the case of urban renewal legislation. will pay you to spend money on influencing where you've got some property you'd like area. I may say in this game there are universities, which have not been innocent of playing this passed, it will pay you to bid among one another over. So that the first proposition is that if you're else's money is going to be spent, there those to whom the well-meaning people initially this competitive game, who are the most efficient bottom who haven't got any money? There ability to compete in the political arena but they are not wholly unrelated. Those people them to succeed in the economic arena- are enable them to succeed in the political arena. There has been the great fear over the centuries would get together against the haves, that a majority rule and despoil the top 49 percent. very good reason; it's not a sensible coalition. that's a silly way to organize it. What top 5 percent, because the money you can take they can provide; you want to leave out the are likely to be more easily duped with respect aren't likely to be very efficient, good of the 51 percent in-between and benefit that the very top and of the people at the very in writing an article on this subject, called associate or relative of mine, my brother-in-law, that this was what you would expect to happen. Now that's an oversimplified picture because, a single coalition in the middle; it's made being guided by majority rule but we're system you are run- by a majority which is get 5 percent who feel very strongly on one on that issue, forget about everything else; and if you want to get elected to office--if the way to get elected to office is to figure 5 percents so you get 51 percent. That's get their way. Of course, over and beyond the concentrated process you have another group that develops important. And these are the government officials--elected and unelected. This applies to the welfare measures, but of course it applies to many newly established Department of Energy, which with contractors who employ another 100,000 are being paid to devote a large part of their deeply involved in the problem of production, the same thing is true in the welfare area. not a senator of the State of New York, but for trying to get through congress a welfare Plan, a form of the negative income tax...a President Carter has now said he's going wrote a book about that failure and it's there are a number of reasons, but one of the welfare establishment. Enacting that law who had nice jobs, exerting real influence because this would have been a substitute other programs. Now again, don't misunderstand welfare establishment opposed it out of deliberate harm--not at all. But everybody is perfectly in his interest- is in the nation's interest. a bureau. We're doing good work; we're going to put me out of business? That's And so you get a concentrated group of governmental to follow policies which are in the general own bureaucratic interest. Let me go from this general level of analysis give you some numbers to show you that I'm We have had an enormous number of welfare the name of helping the poor. The total expenditures by the federal, the state, and the local excluding private charity and the rest--total of the national income. To put this in terms publishes figures on the number of people I warn you that's a wholly arbitrary number; not poor and the poor are arbitrary, but take something like 12 percent of the people are Suppose I divide the total amount of money labeled poor. The answer comes out to $9,000 to take the mythical family of four so much the average per capita income of everybody; all the people in the United States after If that $9,000 per person were really going (Laughter) That income given to them would put them in But of course it isn't going to the poor. the governmental officials. It's going to name of helping the poor but end up helping Let me get closer to home and go away from which in a way is not really a social welfare point so beautifully that I can't resist you and me. I have in mind governmental expenditures a private institution like the University The worst cases are the state universities, pot and, if not in the federal pot, in the But consider the situation of higher education. on higher education. Who benefits? Primarily education--the students. Where do they come the upper-income classes. Even those of them I myself did, are going to be converted by by their own qualities- into people in the low-income families who have the ability and are the richer ones of the low-income class. personal qualities. In any event, the facts average a very much higher income class than do you do? We impose taxes on everybody, including to subsidize the people who do go to college. taxes on the people in Watts to send the children literally exact statement; it's put demagogically state of California some years back showed universities of higher education came from 5 percent came from the bottom 25 percent. is no social program in this country, in my taxes on low-income groups to benefit high-income groups as government subsidies to higher education- clearly a case of this middle coalition taxing the Now that case is dramatic and shows these it is to do anything about it. How many people the various universities, or your fellow students for cutting down government expenditures people in colleges, universities or graduates their head off about how we must have equality, to tax the rich and help the poor? How many unconscionable program of imposing taxes on well-to-do to college? Why not? Because we the country. I think it's a good thing that everybody if he has the will, the capacity to do so, If he can't do it in advance, fine; let's through college in return for a commitment go into details about the form and so on...I'm the principle of the thing. Let me give you some other examples. A major is Social Security. Now Social Security, as of misleading advertising that I know of; (Laughter) What it is is a combination of a bad tax and It is sold as if individuals who pay Social that they are going to get later on; that's Administration sells it. That's extremely today are paying taxes on their wages; people The relation between the taxes Mr. X pays very, very slight. There is a tiny bit of on the whole there is very little relationship. throughout their lives may get very different I want to go to the point I'm talking about, middle class to impose programs that benefit Security does involve a very large transfer young pay taxes which go to pay benefits to a very substantial transfer from low-income Well consider, at what age does a young man go to work? Sixteen, seventeen, eighteen- taxes at that time. At what time do we go You and they stay protected in schools, stay 24 or 25 maybe, and then they start to pay as nowadays you can all do on one of those discover that the effect of this is to make about a third higher in actuarial value than that's only half the story. Have you ever of life? Who do you suppose has the longer groups or those in the higher-income groups? those of us in the middle- and upper-income later and we get more benefits because we have a program enacted in the name of helping which has the effect of benefiting middle-income groups. Over and above that there are lots the middle-income groups who don't benefit, isn't. It's an enormously complicated But taken as a whole, it is a marvelous illustration the name of helping the poor to turn out to themselves. The only program I know of for which a good money have lower average incomes than the I know of is direct welfare, AFDC and direct the program which draws the greatest opposition on the part of the population as a whole. all the others. It's no worse than the others. may know, long been in favor of major reforms negative income tax for the whole collection the only one I know of, and it's only a programs labeled as being for poverty. Over and above the waste of resources through effects which I think are very serious from free society. In the first place, calling that social fabric of agreement on basic values In order to have any kind of a stable society you have to have them have a certain minimum want to avoid straining that set of beliefs. people who hate one another in other respects without any difficulty. As I often say, when whether the wheat from which that came was a Chinaman, a Mohammedan, a Christian, a Jew, it doesn't make a darn bit of difference. on every issue, you can cooperate--he can That's the great virtue of the market...that without people having to agree with one another. You have to enforce conformity on people. to decide on who is going to pay, who is going say one thing and 49 percent say the other, a result, the more you have to use political the social fabric and this has shown up very go much farther in this direction in homogeneous heterogeneous societies like our own. But of things like the tendency for Quebec to to become separate--after all, if the government to have their hands in the oil pot...so that measures is to promote regionalism and divisions has shown up by the growth of ethnic particularism, being a melting pot, in which we got a common go our own way with respect to our local customs is a great deal to be gained by forming cohesive out forming blocs of people from particular to become more cohesive blocs which tends The welfare state measures develop an acceptance It develops it on the part of the poor who I remember years ago a fellow, who was doing City, came to me and he said, "I've been he said, "and you talk about the conflict freedom." He said, "You don't know what don't have your freedom interfered with conflict in action, you go down to Harlem They can't move from one place to another supervisor; they can't put in a telephone They are the people who are having their lives Those of us who are subject to Medicare have Those of you who are students who are getting the conditions to which you have to subscribe. are going to come from the government have that might prejudice our future acceptability. state is also to develop an acceptance of Furthermore, it undermines the ethical and those standards by instilling the notion that something is wrong...somebody else is responsible is not wholly the result of their own behavior effect, outside forces do affect them. But are to be responsible for themselves, you In my view, we are fast approaching the kind we must be fearful about the extent to which on our freedom--encroaching on it indirectly situation where the fiscal crisis that it York City, interferes with our freedom, interfering we become subject to bureaucratic control. What can we do about it? Well obviously, the these social welfare measures and promote rid of these welfare measures we cannot abandon people to become dependent on them. We would why I have always been in favor of introducing a great many of them, as providing a way in to admit, that that's a romantic approach been saying tonight, because it goes back is by trying to figure out the right answers, And we know that isn't the way government object analysis of the forces set in motion that may lead motion--very strong forces--because as the and bigger taxes with fewer and fewer benefits. getting the benefits. And therefore, the objective have a tax revolt. You have seen that, and I think that Great example from that point of view. Here you Great Britain went much farther than we did. at all levels has gone to 40 percent of our percent of their income. Great Britain had did; its inflation reached something like mere 12 percent a year. Great Britain has, system, and the Labour government of Great has behaved in a way to reduce the ratio of the welfare measures. So I think that there is some chance, and of two things: the inefficiency of government and the burden of taxes which cause a tax In thinking ahead to alternatives, I want of those well-meaning people who were behind objectives and we must not denigrate them recognition that there are other ways of promoting the use of government. There is a strong tendency do it or else, at the other end, you have everybody looking after himself. That's is a great area in which you can have voluntary one another for common purposes. That is what in the United States, when government spending national income and federal government spending had essentially no welfare state measures the state level, was the period of the greatest that the world has ever seen. You had the you had the foreign missions, and you had this one. The market is an effective means activities as well as all other activities One of the worst things, in my opinion, that is the destruction of private mechanisms. and use those instead of the compulsory mechanisms (Applause) Professor Friedman, in 1946 a McGraw-Hill in the United States was about 22 percent that it would lead to the destruction of our percent as you suggested tonight. Is this is it catastrophic? How much can the tax take It's dangerous now, but there is no magic it becomes more and more difficult to maintain is will vary from case to case. To illustrate; at 40 percent. The level of government spending under Allende. And that was the point at which apart, a military government stepped in, and much less developed and a much less wealthy percentage has gotten up to 60 percent and point there is apparently higher than 60 percent. 70 percent. Now I should explain a little is a very misleading percentage. You know way in which you run the national accounts spending as a ratio to national income from concepts. And I believe all of these numbers spending. They don't overstate the role Now the other thing that needs to be said over your life without spending any money. every automobile you drive has maybe $500 by the government. You paid for it; that doesn't the administrative body that administers the much money, but its effect has been to destroy great effects without spending money. So the simple answer to your question is that is, the more dangerous it is. I have a question about public housing. I of dwellings destroyed is greater than the dwellings that are destroyed are three-story century and the dwellings that are put up eight families per floor. Oh, I mean the number of dwelling units, not I was not careful and I should have been. I dwelling unit is something that houses a family. about, I wouldn't count that as one eight-story The number of dwelling units built is less the housing? Maybe you dislike the public housing because more like a hotel and looks less homey. No, no, that has nothing to do with it. The alternative is either you have a public building by an absentee landlord and... There are no dwelling units in this country housing dwelling units. (Applause) In the South Bronx people are destroying their Of course. Why? They are burning their houses to move into Of course, but why are they burning those Because they are badly maintained. No siree, because you have rent control in to maintain the houses, and it means that out of them is by burning them down. Also absentee landlordism is very... Absentee landlordism, of course. But do you are not under absentee landlords? (Laughter and applause) Look, you must understand... I think it's My objection to public housing is that it torn down dwellings in which they lived. If renewal plus public housing, the situation You've torn down more dwelling units than fraction have not been available to the poor. any urban renewal area in this country you units and you've put up luxury apartments. Not by a long sight. So that the problem is...and set up, because of the income requirements them tend to be broken families. They have of sabotage, of destruction, they are poorly You see...the problem that this young man have to take the will for the deed. The problem units; the point is to go out and see what's hardly anybody who has studied the subject as having improved the housing of the poor. I was interested... before you had mentioned twentieth-century America. I'd like to know be considered a legitimate comparison in terms essentially in the nineteenth century and and allocation situation. At least this seems who say... No, but that's fundamentally wrong. Well just let me finish the question. In the free economy, you seemed to have situations like Rockefeller or the railroad barons essentially is it not a choice, do we not have a choice where John D. Rockefeller and that crowd will the government officials will? Well...let's take the Rockefellers and just He created the University of Chicago incidentally. I know, he founded the University of Chicago. for this country. He developed and promoted...I'm was separate; not even about the founding into a major industry the oil industry of he reduced its cost. He never got a dollar by selling people products at a lower cost Nelson Rockefeller, did enormous harm to the channel. If we had the nineteenth century accumulated wealth had tried his hardest to freedom and the affluence of other people, what he did achieve in that direction as a afforded to put up the Albany Mall, (Laughter) ...let alone to have undertaken the measures changed the educational structure of New York But let me go back to your first question. have limited resources now whereas we had On the contrary, from every important economic resources now than we had then. Tell me, in been discovered; it was useless. We had no in 1858. We have more oil now than we had Before nuclear power was discovered, how much progress of technology has had the effect available to us, so that we have far greater nineteenth century as a result of the technological Is government regulation of the resources Not at all. Government regulation of the resources misuse of resources. Go back and look at your are available to be used, not those that will Of course one more thing needs to be said. than were the people in the nineteenth century, we are if they had not done what they did, to take into account the debt which we owe of the nineteenth century, to the fact that have made it possible for us to have a decent standing on their shoulders, but that's Professor Friedman, how is it that Germany systems in the world is better off economically Germany is not better off economically than economically than Great Britain is at the off than the United States. It is relatively man by the name of Ludwig Erhard who had the did it on Sunday because the American, British, closed on Sunday, and he knew if he did it so on that Sunday, he abolished all price in existence, and he unleashed in Germany free market economy, had an economic miracle. continues to hamper its free market economy welfare, and other measures. But in general, is not terribly different in Germany from in some areas it's less. But the most important Germany in the past 30 years has been willing markets and private market arrangements than I was saying before in answer to an earlier 25 percent, 40 percent--which a government much it can spend depends on the other policies and structure of the people, as I was saying farther than with a heterogeneous people. as it has despite, and not because, of the In America, it has been argued by some that the basis of the private sector performing but instead the only pervasive value in this the private sector is not inclined to perform and as a result of that, the welfare state the disadvantaged in this society. Well, let's look at the situation. Was it well-being that built the University of Rochester around the country? Was it the material interest private nonprofit hospitals around the country the Carnegie libraries, let alone all the is no question about the evidence that the experience of private charitable, eleemosynary But now I come to the other score. Again, and not results. You are assuming that these you are assuming that government activity of your race, in what respect are the black In respect of the kind of schooling they can by the government. Where do you get the idea blacks are in the first place forced to have In the second place, having been put under from getting on-the-job training by a minimum we have on our books, all in order to help purpose of it, but what's the effect of that it's all very well to talk about using a people who in their separate lives are driven in their collective capacity driven by altruistic the other? See...the basic situation as it people are selfish in a narrow material sense, you have a majority democracy--the government their tastes. The only way in which you can by having a society in which a minority can countries in the world? There is no country All it talks about is its five-year plans, plans. It is not altruistic. At any time fraction of the public that is going to be in things other than their fairly narrow self-interest And the question is: how do you construct And in my opinion, that's a system in which which private voluntary activity has a maximum Thank you. Given that the best intentions of the government Government has no intentions. Only people ...the best intentions among the people in adequate housing for the poor... Go slowly. I never talked about the best intentions about the good intentions of the people who people who get in power in government are good intentions. That's a very different No...it's not really the question I had (Laughter) Okay, we'll work our way around to it. What I was hoping to ask is, what specific adequate housing for all the poor? Well in the first place, you know these are housing for all the poor." Those are not What we now consider inadequate would have would be considered a palace abroad. I don't that was made out of John Steinbeck's Grapes or I think shortly thereafter, but I think had to be withdrawn because the people were of the clothes and shoes that the Okies going Poor? The income which we now use in this the poor from the not poor is higher than Soviet Union. It's decidedly higher than the world. These are not absolute standards; different kind of question: What kind of system opportunity to make the most out of themselves, What are the plans for doing that? I'm not give adequate housing to the poor. I want have as much opportunity as possible to develop have as much opportunity as possible to help system of essentially free enterprise, private government. And in that system you have in than you have through other methods. The number exceeded the number of government built houses. but I'm going at it indirectly. You and Thank you. Professor Friedman, there are certain social marketplace. Such as what? Well, let's say there are goods that the they are so lumpy that... Such as what? I want examples. Roads, for instance. Roads? You can have private toll roads. You've this interstate highway that you have, the that couldn't be leased out to private enterprises a fee? Okay, my question concerns social goods. Do goods that the private economy cannot supply? I accept that there are goods which the private that there are goods in which it is difficult everybody who gets the benefits from them. it's not easy for the government to supply you are going in is that there is a strong I have no way in which Rochester University whose shirt is dirtied by the amount of smoke Alright, that's a market failure. Rochester pay them for it. It's buying their services shirts get dirty so that Rochester can heat but in those same cases it's also difficult if you are going to consider cases of market balance the fact that when government seeks to have a government failure. I agree. Okay, I was leading up to this question: like, as you said, pollution, how can government goods and the private goods? Well it cannot, and there is no easy way to isn't an easy answer for every question. It would be first of all, if government decides harm and most good if it does it via effluent setting standards or imposing specific requirements. try to do anything unless there is a very, the net third-party effects are of significant significant. Government is going to do it with another. And I think we have had a great you are about as likely to make matters worse- neat answer, and I don't think you can get all of these cases you are dealing with a of the proposed action, there are certain up. And all I'm urging is that you make sheet and not only at one; that you don't that, lo and behold, there's an evidence step in and do something about it--without failure as well. Thank you. If the middle class controlled this coalition they so upset with the way the government the pie? I was explaining that to you earlier, and out of it. They are you see, each one separately... every individual program works this way, but other. And the problem is that you have a have concentrated interests in certain ways each one of us gets our program, but at the so the net outcome is- that we may be worse you have, as it were, a local equilibrium in which there is a drastic rearrangement But if that's the situation, why can't and arrive at this global equilibrium because... I hope we can. The purpose of my talking this to persuade one another is to try to see if way to do it is to try to wrap these programs constitutional limitations on the aggregate Thank you.