(bright music) - [Marques] Okay, I got really cool. I got to visit some of the secret labs inside of the Walt Disney Company called the Disney Imagineering Labs. So, you know, I've seen some people talk about them a little bit before, but obviously Disney has and theme parks, and rides, and somebody has to design And there is a surprising amount And some of it is still where no one outside of Disney, well, except for me now, This thing is so cool. So Disney Imagineering has scattered around this that I got to visit, where they make realistic as part of their attractions. They literally greeted me at the door with these little droids, the same ones that are roaming And these things have a to the Boston Dynamics Spot robot that I got to play with a few years ago. You know, that Spot robot was with an adaptive gait, and it followed but surprisingly easy to learn controller so that it could navigate around and do jobs that humans won't. And it's also super fun to play with. These little droids for the theme parks are a lot of the same stuff. They are able to adapt to any terrain, they walk around, they follow instructions from a customized steam which took me like 60 seconds to learn, and they can navigate interacting with guests at a theme park and being fun to play with. It was super fun. And it's also seriously is even inside one of these things. It's literally, it's blending from the walking, to the It's pretty cool. But that's not even I was there specifically to be the first person outside of Disney to walk on the HoloTile. So you might've seen The HoloTile. It's this insane, one of like a moving floor basically. It's still in an experimental phase and this is the only one that exists, but it's already got these about future potential And actually one specific thing that I have reservations about, but I'll get to that in a minute. Now, I don't know that anyone's exactly how this thing works yet, but you can see that they're a huge number of these that are spinning on top of their bases like a bunch of tiny treadmills and then turning to match the So obviously a normal treadmill Just one flat plane moving So you always know exactly But let's say you want that's responsive and Well a flat treadmill, it would be really hard, right? It would have to spin around quickly to match direction you're walking, which is just kind of insane. So instead built into the floor is a bunch of articulating cones with discs on top of them, with motors inside to spin those discs. Okay, and then the key here So only the edge of the disc in the air is the part that's actually So it's less of a flat treadmill and more of a bunch of small blades that are rotating under your feet. So when you walk forward, they spin clockwise to move once it's landed. And actually when you walk backwards, they been counterclockwise to move your foot back to the middle. So no matter where you go, no matter how long or it'll always pull you So I've seen these videos of this guy walking on it, but we gotta work our way up to that. You know, I've never walked on it before and it's capable of some other things. So let's graduate, let's get there. So there are three ways There is walking on it, obviously, but there's also using a controller, like a PlayStation 5 controller. And there's also just and just pointing at it with your hands. Let's start there. So first we put this And there's a screen up here that shows in real time all of the inputs and what the sensors are seeing, both on the floor and around the floor. And they've actually mapped anything that crosses a certain line in front of me to move whatever object is on the floor. So when I move my hand the program moves the floor of the object with the And this is pretty sick. I assume everyone watching and realizes how dope it would be to have something like this in some sort of Star Wars experience in a theme park. So this is already super cool, but then the first time I actually get to get on the HoloTile and with a PlayStation controller. So I'm gonna be in a chair where the chair is on a piece of wood so it's just flat bottom, and then they just handed me And, well, see for yourself. - Yup. - [Speaker] 3, 2, 1, enable. (tiles rustling) (tiles rustling) - [Marques] So the left joystick is mapped to control position, and the right joystick controls rotation. So you can spin around, and actually get pretty And if you're wondering, yes, I can steer myself it would let me, I was just to not fling myself off the edge. But it moves so fast. (tiles rustling) So now after all that, now that I've experienced how it moves, now they're gonna let - All right, so I'm gonna which is a fraction of the normal speed, but will still get me So, I'm ready. - [Speaker] 3, 2, 1, enable. - [Marques] Training mode is on. So now, slowly start to walk. I can feel them kind of but not really moving too quickly yet. So this is normal. Oh, okay, now they're starting to move and my feet are starting There we go. So as I slowly walk a little bit faster, a little bit more quickly, I'm getting more used to So they designed this to be as these tiny tiles slowly speed up their responsiveness to my movements. And it was slowly turned up more and more, basically until it was at a It's moving pretty close to And there's obviously a learning curve, but I feel like I'm good enough at it that I can kind of walk Feels good. And then there's all the Showing my feet, my legs. So walking on this, I First of all, as you've it's pretty loud. Like this is gonna be something they definitely are gonna wanna work on, especially if it's something that'll be a part of a theme park someday, or maybe even in someone's home. But also, I found it fascinating, you're never actually quite walking in a perfectly straight line. Like, it can feel pretty close if your foot happens to that are all aligned in But other times you're over the top of a bunch of these ridges and you're not moving in I imagine a future version of this looks like a whole bunch of much smaller and more numerous discs that are just as powerful as they are, which is clearly an engineering challenge, or an Imagineering challenge. So yeah, this takes some getting used to. I know that because I got to hang out with the inventor of the He's been at Disney He's got more than 70 patents, including the way the BB8 the real life lightsabers, He's kind of a legend. And, yeah, this guy's incredible on it. He was showing me that on it at once, and they were playing a like controlling a BB8 by jogging around. And it seemed to work pretty well, aside from being pretty small. Obviously this would work better if they had more of these floor tiles. But then what I found the most crazy is using this floor with a VR headset on. So this is what you would for VR, right? And there's been some other 360-degree treadmill other types of inventions used for VR. And they work, but the one thing that's hard about these, and it's hard to explain through video, but the difference and what your body and brain So meaning like, this if you look down at your phone Your eyes are seeing something still, they see your body sitting still, but then your brain and your inner ear feels you moving around, moving forward. And so the disagreement and what your brain feel, that's what can give you motion sickness. That's what feels bad. And so if you think about with this moving treadmill in VR. You put the headset on and your eyes see that you are walking you're moving forward. But your brain, because doesn't feel that it's So again, there's a disagreement there. So with the HoloTile, I got to try putting and actually walking around You can't see it, but in Star Trek or something, and I've got a harness this is really hard. My eyes see the movement, and my legs are trying to walk forward, and my feet are sliding around, but my brain thinks I'm not So, it's confusing. It's hard to just trust it and walk. Plus there's the extra layer of sometimes it moves you to the center. So I was taking all these baby steps. Meanwhile though, watch Lanny do it, and he's just incredible at it. Like he had the headset on, he was walking around exploring a virtual world. Pretty sure it's like a virtual Disney theme park type of thing. But that's the type of thing that feels the most like the future. Just freeform, exploring some huge space, walking around, in the comfort of your own home maybe. And that would be amazing. And if this thing can maybe, just maybe, it can get us closer to Either way, that is definitely dope tech. I'm glad I got to see the and I'm very curious and Disney, please invite me back. I wanna see what the future Okay, that's it. Thanks for watching. Catch you in the next one. Peace. (bright music)