Hello hardware hackers! I am Zack Freedman, hobbyist should make. I have just one question... [Muffled thud. Sound of electrical tape ripping.] Oh, you're awake! Welcome to my super-sketchy keep prints running after hours. Don't worry about non-conductive. Today, we're going to give my clever devices that you should have. Be have a special surprise for all you Dremel Number ten: Mouse Bungee by Peter Merhaut. I they never lag, and you can't really, y'know, find this thing in about three hours and 45 minutes, above desktop debris so it can't sweep or snag and each have a ball bearing so movement is super high-quality filament. Those snap fit connectors Number nine: USB Cable Holder by Philip Kolb. mathematics that when you agitate a cable, it will your tiniest tub of cables will inevitably as you rummage through it. This USB cable holder workshop while making use of otherwise worthless that it holds the business end of the cable. hub so a live cable is always available [Whip crack!] Number eight: Camera Rig for Smartphones by Willie buttery-smooth shots, it's because I put my iPhone good as a gimbal or a dolly (unless you're in There's a lot to like about this particular model; four bolts, four screws, and one spring. It'll 15 minutes to be exact - and it uses like 200 very forgiving. The spring-loaded phone clamp even a handy 1/4&quot; threaded hole and a shutter [Vroom-vroom mouth noises] Number seven: Battery Inserts for Altoids Tins [REDACTED]ing terrifying. These things will blow up kick your dog, and run off with your wife. inserts nest into Altoids tins and turn them Each one prints with no supports or and they all perfectly fit in a tin those three-dollar project boxes with a handful of the BeagleBone, AND the Raspberry Pi were So, why not keep your rechargeable breath seven and a half: Altoids Tin Selector Rack Altoids containment system, but it does have [Altoids/floor collision sounds] Makes me feel like I'm in the engine room of engine room of the USS Enterprise Number six: Screw sorting jig double imperial by Emi Xin. Don't you hate it when [Sad but epic orchestral music] Or when this happens? [Sad We can 3D print our way out of this. These jigs out the threading of common screws as well as the hardware store, because sometimes Karen the right box. [Yelling at ear-destroying volume] and switch filament to a contrasting color easy-to-read legends that never wear off, unless you're going to print anything on this list, because if you're anything like me, you have a been using this as an excuse not to sort 'em. Number five: Unlockable Loose Filament have you subscribed? More maker videos every some filament from an Amazon seller whose they throw in one of those annoying filament of those obnoxious little hanks of filament, it implodes. Damn you, knot theory! Damn you to hell! this thing flips down so you can just whack the This model has a few nifty features it snaps together with absolutely no glue or Number four: Feather Fingerboard Adafruit Feather into a three-inch long you because the trucks and the wheels cannot a Tech Deck during a global pandemic ssssSIKE!! I put on a mask, I went to target, and this is the only one that can land gnarly grinds, duuuude! bolting a microcontroller onto a fingerboard whole adventure taught me a very important Number three: The TUSH by Vassil Gounev. Gaze words, not mine. TUSH is a one-size-fits-all weird-shaped spools. Just spread your TUSH to the and start extruding. The TUSH runs smoothly is riding on two ball bearings on each side, again The only problem with the TUSH is The weight of the filament alone is If your spool is too tight, you get tangled your TUSH can collapse and dump filament all over ready to give it some attention. Honestly, I think it's cheap, and when you need some TUSH, Number two: Dispenser for Syringe Every bit of surface-mount soldering I do uses to deliver that from the tube to the pad is... is the best way to deploy a precision blob of the this Pieco model got discontinued, like, five of flux or solder paste. Awful name, decent it has a goofy rubber band on it, it's not nearly done. This thing doesn't need springs, doesn't need threaded is some filament, some screws, something any surface mount work at all you, have GOT to get really janky, the others are definitely jankier. You could run off two copies of everything plastic left for a full-size copy of that Well, we're throwing that out the window because a BIG CHUNGUS. Cower, mortals, for the Number one: Workbench Storage: Consuming almost a pound of plastic and nothing less than the very apex of the workshop damn monument to the king of rotary tools. Every is lovingly ensconced in its own custom-fit this colossus of collets collates all of your displaying them all Matrix-style so you can DIY maker people infer social standing everyone who visits Voidstar Lab will know That was the top ten list of the 14 3D prints 3D print and make. Links to every model, and Next Monday, we will unpack my mobile workshop build stuff in the field. Hit subscribe and channel and it makes a colossal difference. Thanks [face punch]