- The aircraft that you're another crazy idea that No, the Sonic Cruiser that Boeing really worked on, even registering patents to their airline customers. - The first unveiling - And they also took it really seriously. Even though it was never built, many of the technologies and even much of the eventually led to the creation Stay tuned. (playful tune) A few weeks ago I launched called &quot;The Classics&quot;, about airliners and other aircraft on aviation history. This video is obviously since the aircraft in and never even entered service but it was still important in its own way. And to start us off and of background info, about an old classic, didn't make a very big And that's really a shame is the stunning-looking Convair 990. Now it's fair to say that Convair but that wasn't always the case. Convair has plenty of history going all the way back to World War II. The company was of Consolidated and Vultee And later on, they continued making both civil and military aircraft. In the late 1950s, Convair especially on the military side. They also made some but when it came a bit late to the game. Boeing's 707 entered service in October of 1958, following suit around 11 months later. And Convair launched the Convair 880 in May, 1960. Now I've covered the story the undisputed king with over 1,000 of them entering service and then came the DC-8 with just over half as many produced but the Convair 880, unfortunately, was widely regarded as a failure with only a measly So why was this then? Well, to start with, the 880 had a five-abreast economy seating, unlike the DC-8 and the 707, on each row and this seems in the jet's poor sales performance. It was just considered too small. And with a capacity it was never going to be anything else. And on top of that, than both of its competitors but it was a little bit faster than them. Beyond that, the only really was that Elvis Presley The aircraft remained in production and ultimately created but the company still believed so they wanted to Since Convair couldn't compete they thought that they in the speed department instead. And since the 880 was than the others, Convair marketed their new model, the 990, with enough range to complete The 990 was a bit longer and was modified further to increase both its range and speed. The goal was to be able to fly on a westerly route, for example non-stop with a cruise These specifications proved to be a bit harder than Convair thought when they first started. But the company really The 990 had a very Innovative instead of the 880's turbojets of very distinctive pods on These were called anti-shock bodies and their purpose was which happens when part of the airflow of the wings starts to move These transonic shock waves as a passenger, can actually of even today's airliners. It often looks like a thin optical line that dances parallel to the wing's or a third in on the wing. The design of these anti-shock bodies was based on research at the time, involving and we'll get back but as you have probably guessed, the idea didn't really catch on. Some newer airplanes actually of the anti-shock bodies, combined with the flap track fairings but, in general, today because most planes for them to make a real difference and aircraft using supercritical The Convair 990 did enter service but in terms of sales, it did even worse than the 880 with only 37 aircraft built. American Airlines were but scrapped that idea when the aircraft never really met its It turned out that, in practice, at Mach 0.84 which was comparable to that of the DC-8 and the 707. It is a real shame because period footage a really comfortable cabin. Convair made barely over and they never made after this fiasco. After multiple mergers and acquisitions, the Convair name while its former facilities got sold to either Lockheed The story of the Convair 990 foreshadowed what eventually would also happen the Tupolev 144 and even As it turns out, were more interested rather than a truly fast aircraft. So with this being a video at this point, you might think Well, not so fast. It is impossible to understand just by looking at aircraft designs from the 1950s and '60s. In order to really understand it, we need to first look at another that took place in the 1990s. And before we do that there's this: What is actually the best way you might wonder? Well, in my view, one of them is definitely Brilliant, today's sponsor. Brilliant is an interactive platform with thousands of courses ranging from foundational data science, neural networks, computer science Whether you're a student or a pilot looking to brush up on your understanding of aerodynamics, the Gravitational Physics course to deepen your knowledge. This course covers everything the study of forces on objects and their resulting motion I've tried it myself and because the learning experience which is why even my kids Each course is designed to help you stay focused So to try everything that Brilliant has to offer for free for a full 30 days, you can visit brilliant.org/mentournow or click on the link The first 200 of you who does that will get 20% off Brilliant's and you'll also help Now let's continue. When Boeing first on the 29th of March, 2001 some critics said that they thought it was a three-days-early But it turns out that Boeing In 2001, Boeing had already a move that would later be criticized by many as a step away from its past as an engineering-led company and towards one that was But the events that led to really involved the and truly innovative part of Boeing. And as strange as it sounds, the aircraft that pushed towards the Sonic Cruiser that we today know as the Airbus A380. Yes, this takes us when Airbus was talking to the airlines about what they called the A3XX. This was the start of the because when Boeing for a double-decker aircraft, their engineers initially wanted or even more enlarged 747 variants. When we talk about this, that since the launch Boeing had never extended The 747-300 and 400 but the overall length The only exception to this which I've talked But during the super jumbo battle during the mid-1990s, to finally change that. In 1996, Boeing revealed plans called the 747-500X, 600X and 700X. The first two would feature that was to be slightly and then the 700X would take things even further with both Boeing worked on these designs that there wasn't really to support the plans for Later, Boeing instead came up with a more modest where they would modify and have a more modest fuselage stretch but fit some new engines but the fact that even that plan failed to gain any interest from the airlines, confirmed something and researchers had been The way that the Airlines and passengers were flying long haul was changing. Now it's also worth to point out here that all of this development work when there was still some resistance to the idea of more generous extended-range twin-engine or ETOPS for short. These ETOPS rules now allow in routes over sea But in the mid-1990s, how easy it would be for new airliners to get ETOPS approvals good Airbus betted that quad-jets and later, the A380, would continue to rule the skies over the oceans and therefore, be the But, by contrast, Boeing made sure that when their 777 it did so with a full That meant that three hours away single-engine speed from an alternate and, therefore, making it viable for The airlines really liked the 777 design and pressured Airbus to give the same treatment to its Airbus A330 but Airbus refused the four-engine A340 And this gave Boeing's The 777 was obviously a twin-jet but it was still relatively big. If they could design another twin, smaller, but still with long enough range to work for long haul they could give the airline something they could really use instead of flying Yes, this was indeed another chapter in the battle between hub and spoke, the traditional way for and the point-to-point model Passengers seemed to mostly prefer the point to point because that meant that they didn't have to which made their travel quicker so it looked like speed and convenience still maybe was a strong bargaining chip. And this finally brings us Since both the airlines liked the speed of point-to-point travel, why not compound the speed further by making a really fast twin-jet, Now those of you who did physics at school know that going fast comes with a fairly big penalty. Drag increases with the square of speed, meaning that when drag gets four times bigger. But Boeing's engineers had some that they could pull this off without making the Sonic Cruiser inhibitively fuel thirsty. First, there was some fresh research from NASA on the topic as I explained in my video but the main factor favor the Sonic Cruiser concept was the use of composite Composites can make for lighter structures which helps to reduce the fuel burn but they also have a that would make them key for this type of aircraft be useful when engineers want and this is particularly true like an aircraft fuselage. And to understand why we have to return back to the area rule that I mentioned before. Now imagine slicing an aircraft including the fuselage its wings What the area rule says is that should increase and decrease from nose to tail. This will minimize wave drag when the aircraft starts and, subsequently, but what this means in practice is that, for example, where the fuselage should get a bit slimmer to account for the thickness of the wing. This would require the fuselage where it meets the wing, and you can actually on some supersonic military jets. The Convair F-102, for example, with a Coke-bottle fuselage But fighters and other military jets that follow this rule have only Unlike an airliner, they don't need to pressurize the rest of This is why, for example, the Concorde had a perfectly straight fuselage absolutely knew about the area rule and could have used even faster and more efficient. But they were working with aluminium plus they also had to deal associated with flying at Mach 2. So they had to settle with instead of using the area rule. But with these new fantastic materials, the Sonic Cruiser would not be as the earlier types had been. But remember Boeing had already been bitten by supersonic with the failed Boeing 2707 SST. As I explained in my recent it was simply too ambitious, than the Concorde and it when it was canceled. - And we are talking about a plane in the end of the '60s at a speed faster than Mach 2 - So this time, Boeing's engineers adapting existing research This design would It would instead cruise at Mach 0.98, so close to Mach 1 and that just It would for example enable them to more easily use And it would also solve a lot of the friction-temperature-related problems that would come with supersonic speeds. Boeing was betting big in this design which they saw as the ideal solution A Boeing patent from back in the day when the development was going on, gives us a lot of insight of this aircraft would have They also showed the importance that Boeing's engineers placed would take advantage of it. Now, as a general rule, it's a bad idea to fully trust patent documents because they often exist just not to show a true In fact, they often can be deliberately misleading in that regard. But looking at the general configuration of the Sonic Cruiser, its fuselage was going to be wide near the nose then as the delta wing got broader, the fuselage slowly started The rest of the aircraft's configuration also had some features like the delta wing and who actually looked a bit except that these ones And, crucially, the Sonic Cruiser both of them buried into so that their intakes Boeing's engineers really believed that they could offset associated with flying at Mach 0.98 by simply optimizing the aerodynamics of the Sonic Cruiser and airlines like Virgin Atlantic and American Airlines were really enthusiastic and also none of those airlines in the Airbus A380, making them perfect customers for Boeing's with the Sonic Cruiser. And, incidentally, Airbus announced its A380 formally just days the Sonic Cruiser for the first time and that was probably not a coincidence. A smaller, very fast, was really attractive to a lot of people and, obviously, it was an example of a forward-thinking, that really contrasted So why didn't it happen? Well, there are a few reasons for this. Firstly, some analysts believed for the aircraft's range and speed and, therefore, its efficiency Boeing had been adamant that the aircraft wouldn't aircraft flying at the time And with that, like Convair discovered with the 880 and 990 designs, the airlines simply preferred could gain at a slower speed that would come with that. And also, in reality, the benefits of flying a bit faster as Boeing's researchers had thought. For a 3,000 nautical-mile journey between New York and London, would take between six and seven hours to complete that flight. In practice, the faster speed would reduce this by around one hour, meaning a time saving Now I'm sure that many but for the airlines, would run into some operational problems. Scheduling these faster flights and arrive at the right is a bit more complicated And this is especially true would also have to fit the schedule the rest of their non-Sonic-Cruiser fleet. And, finally, another reason was scrapped was that it was As I'm sure some of you noticed when I've said it earlier, and a few months later, 9/11 would completely With many airlines struggling suddenly the idea of a super sleek, super fast but somewhat just made no sense. But for Boeing, was not a complete loss. Their ideas about the point-to-point versus hub-and-spoke operations were fundamentally correct on composites were As I'm sure many of and technological advances with E meaning efficiency. That aircraft is flying successfully Its composite fuselage and its use of electrics to pressurize the cabin and power that Boeing started developing They just had to adapt to what they already knew. Now I hope that you liked this video and if you did, leave a like, a comment and subscribe to the channel. If you want to support the work then please consider joining I have lovely Zoom hangouts and I've just finished sending out for those who have Now check out these videos and buy yourself a Classic t-shirt. There are links to it Have an absolutely fantastic day