Sadhguru: There are experiments to show how person who approaches it. You handle water, almost everything that people You've seen the jeevarasam? You put this in your house and consume this You will not get into chronic ailments. Water, jala or neer or achamaniyam as it's water is fundamental or among the most important process. Today, a lot is being said in scientific terms Not just as an ingredient, not just as one participant in the making of life. This is something always many cultures in issue that unless it comes from a laboratory most obvious truth that anybody who's paid that there is a certain aspect or a certain in everything that's life. In the last decade or a little more than that, language as to how water has both memory and It is not just reacting to various things water's response to different inputs is There are experiments to show how water does approaches it. See, if the water does not respond well to Over seventy-two percent of your very physical If the water doesn't behave well with you, Your physical life is going to be a, a horror You can be vaccinated for every disease there is going to be a horror story because water Why wouldn't water respond well to you? To put it in a very simplistic way, if you or unconsciously, appropriately water may You may be living wantonly right now but water The fundamental reverb that you're setting So if we find that somebody has this issue of our body or more than two-thirds of our not behaving well within us and just about then water-based kriyas and karmas are done because if you're not friends with food, you But if you're not friends with water, physical So to keep this relationship between the water us and the water that has to come into us keep that kind of relationship that even if dance in joy. If you keep your situation like that, physical well taken care of. It's not that air, fire, earth not important, wins. Most nations turning democratic (Laughs), (Laughs) and among the ingredients, leaving nature - among the four water has a more to the other elements. What does this mean in our day-to-day life? What does this mean in our process of creating and the spiritual possibility, what does it What it means is you know you can either float That's what it means (Laughs). The same water can take you places, the same So, the dimension of water - much has been And we know that we can change the molecular With any kind of reverb or vibration, the molecular structure changes so rapidly and Water has its own cellular structure and this inputs of vibration. Vibration can come in the form of touch, in utterance of a sound or mantra, or just the thing. These are recorded now. Many images, microscopic images produced like the neuronal structure in the brain rearranges way, simply because you're in a certain state When you're joyful, how the neuronal structure you're blissful, how it is; when you're stressed these things have been recorded now. Something very similar to what happens in that is put into it. When I say input, not chemical input, not can change the molecular structure of the Different bodies of water are responding in same body of water responds in different ways If five people go to the river, the same river people, if they allow a little space between It's clearly there. So we are dealing with such an intelligent They've gone to the extent of saying that planet. So, enormous amount of systems were established Largely lost, but still a bit, traditionally those who are little orthodox, even without are doing the right things. If you walk into a traditional South Indian way. It has to be in a metal pot, preferably copper And you will see they will keep a lamp, they on top of it, here it is. In America there's no flower, but in India Because water needs to be happy if you should Life is... I don't know, sometimes you might have been, should take... make a visit to one of the an infection (Laughs), just to see how much Life can become real horror if certain things care of water is an important aspect of that. So every day how you drink the water means, our house they do it and many homes they still Of course many people have shifted to plastic Otherwise, in the night with little tamarind soap, and then water is filled up and they night and go to bed and next day morning they This water is going to behave wonderfully Above all, water is looking at your attitude Being a huge presence on the planet, over Our idea of life springs from water. If you're looking for life in any planet, the basic, the basic elements which make life, basic elements from the chart, you know, (Talks Hmm?) from the periodic chart, if you take, which are playing a major role in the life-making Of course, we think carbon is poison now, Everything that's life is largely carbon, (Talks aside: What's the other one?) Nitrogen a little bit. (Talks aside: No, not really oxygen) Just These are the things which in play with water, So, all the life making material, fundamental are actively engaged with water, otherwise Experiments have been conducted where these life begins to happen in a complete vacuum Rudimentary life will start taking shape right ingredients and water and little bit of electrical Well, it's come a long way with its evolution But the fundamental composition of life in it being water has not changed. This is true with every life, not just with So the phenomena of water on the planet is It's behaving in so many different ways and breaks life. So, this play of water in our lives is big. Conducting water in the right manner means well, largely. Rest of it, very simple, if water is good, Taking charge of air is very simple. If you just learn a few things, you can take _____ (Unclear) fire is a different nature With ninety-six percent you can manage life most people are not aspiring to take their They are okay if they don't get into trouble. For that you don't need ninety-six percent. You can easily manage with sixty percent. You can do pretty good. You can be successful, you can earn a living. You know, you can produce two children and All this you can do is fifty, sixty percent The problem only arises when you want to be You want to be on the edge between physical all your hundred percent. Otherwise, it doesn't really matter. So I'm saying if you handle water, almost is generally handled. The agility of the body, the agility of your As you know, water is the only substance found three states naturally, solid, liquid and But this a certain arrangement of its molecules, water is almost being recognized as the fourth or the molecular structure within the water Because of this, a structured water is being There are various ways to do this, one aspect I don't know if you've ever done this but high enough, it is not... it doesn't have I'm sure if you try the Niagara it will be Some other waterfall which is at least a minimum volume falling. You go fill the water up there, before it Then come down immediately after the waterfall. Just take the water and feel it. You will see the water is silky. It's almost like you know, it's like silk out it's almost coming like that in your experience, like that, because of the sheer force, a certain Because of this, the molecular structure is far more conducive for life. Today they have created implosion machines. Some, some inventor in UK has patented this If you implode the water just by a certain force which turns inward rather than going the planet is released. Today all modern technology happens because When I say explosion, don't just think of If you start the car what's happening in the is exploding. So almost everything that we do in the name are releasing energy by explosion. Wherever there is explosion, there is a tremendous you cannot control. See right now, you... you run your car, then touch the engine. If you touch it, your hands will burn out. If you just touch the bonnet or even go near All this energy is just going out. Only a part of the energy you can trap it it is all dissipating into the air in the Thermal energy is going waste. Every machine that you run on this planet simply because we don't know how to make use So that is happening with everything that Implosion is a different way of generating You can say (Laughs), Yoga is implosive. Cool, but hot (Laughs), you know. Very cool, but burning inside because it's It's not an explosive process. Because it's an implosion. Enlightenment is an inclusive process. It's very wonderful to see that today modern of implosion and what it can do. If implosion becomes the way of doing things, be no global warming. You can run as many machines as you want because Because implosion is a different way of making So imploding machines, generating this imploded They're saying you can grow the same crops using right now. But now, you're pumping water through your you... whatever you call it. They say, if the water is going through, let's it drops out of your tap. You take it in a glass, in terms of molecular has turned into poisonous water. But if you hold it in this glass for the next If you're drinking... I see in America, people are drinking from Straight into their mouth (Laughs). Many times when I'm thirsty, when I'm outside here," I said, "I'll never ever drink It's too... it lacks dignity" (Laughter). I don't know, a lot of people are not going But please drink in some other way this is In the east always the best way to drink water Not even in a tumbler. You must drink with your own hands. If that's not possible, if somebody gives hold it with both your hands and drink like Have you seen this? When you come to India, you must have seen, Of course city people are... they're all wearing they're different people. But you will see if you go into the villages drink like this. Even if you give it in a tumbler, they'll this. Not like this. Because it's important that first before you Allow that much time and then drink it, then And this may sound like, what to say, some Well, some people come to senses only after This happened once. In a South Indian jungle a lion was really of the jungle. So he was just swaggering around like that. He saw a little rabbit, pop he caught him, Uuuugh, you know, you don't know whether He said, "You, you, my master, only you, Let him go today, okay, magnanimous today. And then a fox was going, pop he caught the You know a fox, what he will say. He said all those things with extra attachments. Then he was feeling really full and with a There's a big clearing in the forest. He looked up, a huge tusker, he was in the is the king of the jungle?" The tusker without a word, picked him up in him on the ground. His back broke. Then he said, "You could have just told The tusker said, "Well, I had to make my Life is just like this. You... after things go bad, well, you would somebody should have told me (Laughs). Oh, see life has to make a point, otherwise So, in terms of one's spiritual growth, also memory, with what kind of attitude are we I'm talking about the memory and attitude To create that, you have a responsibility In India there's a word called tirth, tirth. You've heard tirth kund? Tirth means water with a specific type of So, a tirth from a certain kind of temple Tirth from another kind of temple will do over that and it has the memory of the divine which are made of nine types of deadly poisons poisons. This is called as navapashana. It's a... an Indian alchemy where nine poisons a minute dose. But now nine have combined together and they've Every day somebody pours water over that. And that water that comes out people drink because over a period of time the deity wears The controversy is going on now because one out. They should make a new one. But now the new laws, the government's laws deity is melting away. People have drunk it up (Laughs). It was made for that purpose. Periodically you must replace it as people People should drink up the God. No. Because what is the idea and what is the point? Now I'm getting into trouble. We want to drink the Gods, we want to eat cell of our body and happen in a certain way. So tirth and prasad, very important. It's not because you've not eaten at home, or for that one little something that they It's not because you have no food at home in water, which has a certain type of memory, within you in a certain way. So this science has been elaborated in many,many and some of them are truly miraculous and Some of them are absolutely filthy over a All these things have happened, but what we what can we do with it on a daily basis? See, water is used for everything. If you want to consecrate something, water In most ancient cultures, whether it is Mesopotamian India, of course, probably only in India, In all the other places, it's been wiped out in the last few hundred years. Without consecrating the food with water they Even today, you will see in most homes in eat -first thing is they'll take water, food, then only they eat the food. Because what we consume should become conducive In this, water plays a significant role. How we treat the water that's how everything There are various aspects to this, how different period of time. For example, Ganga is... now she's internationally Right now there's a big effort to clean Ganga but it is a big job. Actually, it's a very simple job. But people like to do big jobs because there's It's very simple. If you don't let any of the effluents in and Nobody need to clean her. Just takes one season. When the flood comes, it'll... she'll clean (Laughs), for whatever reason, anyway. Many people, not one or two, thousands of this. By being on the banks of Ganga and consuming they have come out of all kinds of ailments. Sunderlal Bahuguna was a great proof of this. In his efforts to save Ganga and the Himalayan "Chipko movement" at one time, I... I almost went full time into that movement direction changed. Otherwise I would've almost joined the Chipko There later on, these people were initially He's the one who got the tribe... the tribal When they came to cut the trees, they went to cut. Because the entire Indian Railways at one region. It took them fifty years to understand they else, with concrete or metal or something. Otherwise all of them were wooden. Because the British used wood, so they continued. The entire Indian Railways was made from timber That means the... the whole forest range amounting miles vanished. But we had railways. So (Laughs), so at that time Sunderlal Bahuguna forget what the ailment - he went there just lived in the banks of Ganga, just everyday He just completely came out of that ailment. In my own experience for twenty-seven years for trekking. I think only last four years or five years management and now our Sacred Walks is doing Otherwise, all those first twenty-two or twenty-three Many, many days, just drinking two to three trekked every day in the mountains eighteen, No food. I was just fine, fully charged up, just drinking beyond Gangotri if you go and drink the Bhagirathi Just two handfuls of water you're done for It just charges you up in such a big way. And even today, this is the only segment of Right now, the Ganga water that comes downstream or four turbines, they're generating electricity They could have spared this one river, because of India (Laughs), it is symbolically consciousness special qualities. This is something that rudimentary idea is H2O. You're only looking at the physical, chemical life. Now, science is trying to touch other aspects now you're trying to build a mountain from and your mountains may collapse very easily A mountain that's standing for a million can go through and it is standing because largely. So nature has its own way of doing things, I have experienced some water bodies as truly It's from my experience of certain natural you just get into this water, you're like Because of that experience I have... we decided the Ashram. I thought people should have some experience I think there are tens and thousands of people water, what it means how water behaves very Many of you who've been in the Chandrakund buoyancy of the water. You can check the pH factor, it is... it is It is not like sea water, it's not dead sea This is just regular water, but you can feel water simply because of the sheer energy, so dramatically because of the reverberation We can create this in our own homes. I'm (Laughs)... internationally acceptable Have you seen the jeevarasam? So I'm... I'm designing and making a jeevarasam which Right now what we're making in India is a is a fetish in the world about certain substances. So we are making another kind of jeevarasam. A copper pot, a jeevarasam, a lamp on top If you can put a flower or a leaf on it, it's You put this in your house and consume this Most probably, it's not like a guarantee because I would say, you will not get into chronic You have to catch a bug. That's different. But largely you will be free from body generating thing. Not seeing it as a commodity, but seeing it Yes or no? (Talks aside: Hello, I don't like it.) Water is bigger than your God, yes or no? If you... If you say no, I'm going to deprive you of In twenty-four hours' time you will agree So, I'm saying the fundamental life-making the necessary value and the necessary reverence Maybe (Laughs) you always been thinking if strike you down. Lightning may miss you but water will get Yes, if you don't treat it well, it'll get get you anyway. So, drinking water is one thing - we can't would be great. There are ways to do that. We are in the process of making a manual - How you. It's a part of the Bhuta Shuddhi. The practices are too complex and sophisticated a certain effort, simple practices can be We... in the twenty-one day Hatha Yoga, we're Otherwise, there is Pancha Bhuta Aradhana, through a ritual that happens. But understanding a few simple facts as to you and what's within you, these two dimensions just this, what is around you also you have the way the water bodies around you behave yourself and sometimes with the water body We want this to become common knowledge as If you're not made yourself sensitive enough It's not the same thing. If you could feel it, it would be the best