For 50 years, the entire automotive industry A man whose name never appeared on a single car. So, you might not have ever heard of him. But you certainly know the cars he created. Because their technological advancements trickled down to the cars that we drive every day. And trickled up to the cars that we put on posters. And (trickled) over to the cars that we barely knew existed. [Bugatti Veyron Power Oversteer] This is the story of a man whose cars owned the entire automotive universe... ...from 250 mph to 250 mpg. ...and everything in between. WHOAAAAHMAAA GAAAHD! That's... ICONIC! This is some Geppetto / Pinocchio stuff amirite? The Piechisode is brought to you by the Hagerty Drivers Club, which includes a subscription to our award-winning magazine, 24/7 flatbed roadside assistance, and far Join or get more info at the link below! The is the Bentley Continental GT Speed. The Bentley badge means its interior is filled with sumptuous leather and gorgeous wood. and then the Speed badge means it has neither of those things. But it's not just a pretty face with a $392,000 It's actually a Porsche Panamera... In Bentley Drag! This is outrageous! Unconscionable! Nuts! It rips off a 2.99-second 0-to-60, with 650 horsepower coming from a masterpiece of an one of the world's most power dense, in fact, an ingenious 12-cylinder that takes up less space than a V-8. But it's about to come to an end. Bentley has announced this is the last W12-powered car ever. Just as Bentley's sister company, Bugatti, has announced the end of the W16, the engine that powers the Bugatti Chiron. But this isn't where W stops. This isn't the end of an engine. This is the end of an era. In the history of the car, there have been very clear chapters, in which one person (or one person's company) was clearly defining the automobile of the time. Since you're an enthusiast, you'll be yelling out names like Enzo Ferrari! Ettore Bugatti! Or Ferruccio Lamborghini! That's not what I'm talking about. Those men all built a small number of toys for millionaires, and of course we all dream about maybe one day owning one of them. But today, we're talking about people who influenced millions of cars. The kind that you and I drive every day. There was the Gottlieb Daimler chapter -- the Once Upon a Time era where the car was invented. There was a Henry Ford chapter, where serial production line methods commoditized the car so everyone (or nearly everyone) could have one. There's a chapter devoted to Toyota, focusing on continual Improvement to revolutionize production efficiency, making the cars not only more affordable but ensuring they actually worked. And then there was one man who rescued one storied car maker after another from bankruptcy, assembled them all together, and created the world's largest and most powerful car company. His name was... Ferdinand Peak! Pike! Pich Piessh! Peish? Peisha? Piech. It's a... &quot;chhhh.&quot; Whatever -- you don't even like people! I don't get it! Why do you want to do an epic ICONS episode about an executive!? There's a Veyron right here! I don't want to talk about some stupid human! I saw this coming. First of all, no one ever accused Ferdinand Piech of being a human. Secondly, he was a lousy executive in that he didn't give a Schnitzelscheisse about shareholder value. All he cared about was making great cars, and you'll appreciate this, taking them racing! Hey, now you've got my attention! Piechhhhhh.... chhhhhhhhh! Oh my god listen to that! This is the whole Grail of the the Carrera 2.7 RS! Yes and would you like to tell the audience what Carrera means? Well in the movie &quot;Cars&quot; it was Sally Carrera's last name, and she had a tramp-stamp underneath her rear spoiler. (A) How did I never notice this? (B) Also, perhaps a little bit more relevantly, &quot;Carrera&quot; is Italian for race. Well, and race makes sense because Porsche is the most successful racing manufacturer in the history of the Way back then and right to this day. ...and if it weren't for a man named Ferdinand Piech, the 911 might not have been raceable. Wait a minute, I thought Butzi Porsche did the 911. Butzi Porsche did. He was Ferdinand Piech's first cousin who was 2 years older. He did the 911 while Piech was in college. Ferdinand Piech graduates, comes to work at Porsche, starts 6 months before the 911 is due to enter production, and stops the whole thing. Says Halt! Stop! Forget It! If we are supposed to sell this car then we must race this car! And to make the 911 into a race car, the brand new Hans Mezger-designed flat-6 needed dry sump lubrication. Just months into his first job ever, Piech managed to convince Mezger and the whole management team to redesign the 911's oiling system. If he had been just 6 months younger, he might not have been there to demand the dry sump. And the Porsche 911 -- the definition of sports car for 60 years -- might not have been able to survive on the race track. That was that man's first-ever achievement in the automotive industry: ensuring that the 911 was raceable. Good start, right? Ad the 911 was just the beginning. Piech didn't subscribe to the &quot;less is more&quot; philosophy. He used a &quot;more is more&quot; approach to help Porsche dominate motorsports, taking the company's racers from dinky little eights, twelves, and even a prototype 16-cylinder. Piech went for &quot;more, more, more&quot; until he hit &quot;most&quot; with the 917, perhaps the greatest racing machine of all time. With twin turbos on its flat-12, the 1100 horsepower 917 was so Hog Wild that it killed off its own racing series. Even without the turbos, the naturally aspirated 917 won Le Mans, kicking off Porsche's unmatched success at the world's greatest race. And the company's thank you to Ferdinand Piech for all of his success? They fired him! ...but that had nothing to do with his work. Look, a little Insider information when Ferdinand Piech called the bank and, for security purposes, they needed to know his mother's maiden name, he had no choice but to tell them it was Porsche. &quot;Yeah, like the car company.&quot; Welcome to the Porsche family tree. Ferdinand Porsche was the genius inventor who started the whole mystique. His son, also named Ferdinand Porsche, was the Ferdinand who created the sports car company we know today. HIS son, another Ferdinand Porsche, was the Ferdinand who created the 911. This Ferdinand was roughly the same age as our Ferdinand (Mr Piech.) And more than half of the eight Porsche descendants in their generation were in management positions at Porsche. As you can imagine, they were killing each other. and screwing each other. (GASP!) or at least each other's wives! (DOUBLE GASP!) Like that time that Piech knocked up his cousin's wife and had three kids with her. And then left her for the tutor and had three kids with her. To say nothing of the five kids he had with his first wife. Or the two more he had with the nanny. That's THIRTEEN Piechlets, in case you're counting. Look, the man was certainly fertile. But he was also out of a job. They all were. The Ferdinands' parents agreed that the only way to stop the fighting (though not necessarily the schtupping) was to prohibit all Porsche descendants from being high-level managers at the company. And so Piech started up a consulting agency And was immediately hired by Mercedes-Benz, to extract more power from its existing 4-cylinder diesel engine. It took him just 6 months. Piech added another cylinder, creating the world's first production passenger car 5-cylinder engine. It was the Goldilocks Diesel! Better And I bet you didn't realize the OM617 was a Piech thing. This engine is now legendary for its 5-cylinder lope, its clatter, and its indestructibility. Mercedes was so pleased with Dr. Piech's work that they offered to put him in line to become the next chief of development. He turned them down because he said that Mercedes-Benz's engineering budget was too small. WHAT?! In the history of the world, those words have never never before been said. Or since. However, immediately thereafter, Audi learned how to speak five-cylinder, when it hired Dr. Piech to run its special projects. There, he developed a five-cylinder that spoke a different dialect. It burned gas. At this point in its history, Audi had no identity. The company was trying desperately to differentiate itself from the market by using a Wankel rotary engine. Piech was having none of that. In fact, he was known internally as the Wankel-Killer, because instead he wanted 5-cylinders and diesels -- you know, engines that actually worked. Obviously he won that battle, earning him keys to the palace. And Palace is, by the way, the right word. Piech was so influential that insiders at And this is all before he came up with a *real* way to Remember that it had only been a couple of years since the Porsche 917, and Piech's heart was still in motorsport when one of his engineers came up with an unusual plan to give four wheel drive. Which was unthinkable! At the time, four-wheel drive systems existed basically just to get your stuck truck out of the mud, but then stopped that truck from turning. Audi developed a permanent all-wheel drive system that didn't hurt turning nearly as much In fact, when Audi tested its first prototype, it made it around the Hockenheimring about as quickly as a front-wheel drive Audi with 50% more power. And that was on making Quattro All Piech had to do was convince Volkswagen's upper management to pay for it. You've probably seen this TV commercial, but this wasn't just a commercial. This was based on a real stunt that Piech pulled. Without telling anyone in advance, Piech showed up at a meeting of Volkswagen managers taking place at the top of a mountain in Austria. To get to them, he drove a prototype Quattro right up Europe's steepest mountain pass. A 23% grade. In snow. On summer tires. Right in front of the other managers, who were presumably stunned speechless. Point made. Piech's original plan was to make just 400 Quattros, only for rally homologation, but after that whole hillclimb stunt, it became obvious to everyone that four-wheel drive road cars could give Audi an identity. And, more importantly, it would give BMW and Mercedes Of course the Quattro did enter Motorsports, It permanently killed off two-wheel-drive rally cars, and it was seen as such an unfair advantage that it got itself banned from many forms of racing, including even SCCA Trans Am. More significantly, Quattro marked the beginning of the all-wheel-drive passenger car. And today there is not a single manufacturer who doesn't sell an all-wheel drive car in America. And that started right here. You know what also started here? That's right: TDI. This is Ferdinand Piech's combination of a turbocharger that finally made the diesel engine a viable alternative to the gas engine. It was powerful (enough.) It was smooth (enough.) And it was quiet (enough,) but it sure did deliver on the Listen, that clattering sound might have been a bit player here in America, but it changed the face of the worldwide car market. Within just a couple of years after TDI was invented, HALF of the cars sold in Europe were diesels. And Dr. Piech's reward for this achievement? He was fired! JK he was The smoldering dumpster fire of the Volkswagen Group -- which was said to have been just 3 months away from bankruptcy. First order of business for Dr. Piech? He made a joke. He said Volkswagen would build a car that is better than a Mercedes-Benz! Hahahahahahahahahhahahahaha lolz. That's really funny, right? Ahem. No. It's exactly what he did. When the Mk4 Golf came out, it sent Mercedes-Benz back to school to learn how to make an interior. This was a miniature hatchback luxury car, and it came with a six-cylinder that was so smooth and so sonorous that Mercedes bought it to put in its own cars. The VR6 is, to this day, acoustically unmatched You'd have to buy an 911 GT3 from Piech's uncle to get a better noise out of a six-cylinder. The R32 came with Piech's trademark all-wheel drive, but it was also the first car ever put in production with a dual clutch automatic transmission (DSG in Volkswagen-speak) and that's another Piech-era invention that has spread like wildfire throughout the entire automotive industry. Though thank God in the U.S. we got a manual! The Mk4 range went from fuel-sipping, clattering TDI to the screaming R32. To the outside world, it seemed Piech could do no wrong. But internally, he was ruthless. He accepted nothing but the best from everyone. You couldn't deliver? You're out. Stand in his way? Well, that's when things got scary. Oh my God, I hope that works with the subtitles, because in German that is the scariest thing ever recorded. All the tics and the facial twitches? That is disturbing. It would have sent a Bond Villain home to his mommy. But Volkswagen needed a ruthless Fix-It Man and they found one. Piech wasn't just scary, he must have also been at least a little bit self-aware, because years later he said, &quot;only when a company is in severe difficulty will it let in someone like me... &quot;In normal, calmer times I would have never gotten a chance.&quot; That chance wasn't just the opportunity to build a Golf that would irritate Mercedes like a mosquito bite, but a full-on attempt to slash their throat by making a luxury car better than the S-Class. The Phaeton is the embodiment of Piech's obsessions. It was engineered to be the best at all times, for all people, with no excuses or exceptions. Simply put, this was to be the best car in the world. And when Piech listed out his requirements for it, half of his team quit on the spot. And then the other half delivered. This is a 12-cylinder that's physically smaller than a V-8. And that's because it consists of two of Volkswagen's ingeniously compact VR6s, joined at the crank. 6.0 liters and 420 horsepower means it's not not smaller than a V-8, it's more powerful than one, too. And of course, it's married to Quattro all-wheel drive. For safety, and for quietness, the Phaeton's body was so stiff that it made a contemporary Mercedes feel like undercooked Spatzle by comparison. It was a technological showpiece -- it even had an air conditioning system that provided cool air without blowing directly at you, because Germans believe that moving air will make you sick. You got to be kidding me Jason! I'm not kidding, it's a thing, look it up! Randy Pobst! Es Zieht! Zere is vind movink! I vill get sick! What about all those Germans hiking and in the woods and the hills are alive with the sound of music? I mean, I know that it's Austrian. Yeah, but Ferdinand Piech was Austrian, too. I don't understand what it is about the Germans -- they're outside, the wind moves, it's fine. But if that air should happen to come through a vent or an open window it's effin' lethal! I'll tell you what I'll kill that vent right now. Please do, can't risk it! The thing that made Volkswagen's platform-sharing cars so good is, ironically, the thing that makes most badge-engineered cars so bad: it's part sharing! Badge engineered: like when you take a crap car, put some leather in it, double the price, and slap a luxury brand on it? Yep! Hold on I'm turning the A/C back on, it's getting a little stuffy in here. However, I am applying a scarf, lest I catch Cervicale! What the hell is that? Oh Cervicale is the Italian version of &quot;es zieht!&quot; The Italians believe that if wind is moving and touches your neck it'll make you sick. Speaking of crazy Italians, let's talk about Lamborghini, yet another brand that Piech bought and saved from bankruptcy. Badge engineering is how he made an Audi R8 and a Lamborghini Gallardo out of the same car. Piech did part sharing in the opposite direction as everyone else though. He started at the top, always engineering a car for the highest possible brand, and then allowing it to trickle down and be badged as something cheaper. The Gallardo was made to be a real Lamborghini, which made it an incredible Audi. Not the other way around, which would have resulted in a good Audi but an embarrassment of a Lamborghini. Like the Urus is today! You're not wrong! Ferdinand Piech is probably rolling over in his grave -- the Urus is not up to the standards of a Lamborghini. It is very clearly an Audi Q8 with a Lamborghini badge on it. And here's the thing -- Piech's way was cheaper! All he did was make a really good set of expensive parts and then take advantage of economies of scale by producing a ton of them. So you can build a cheap car with high volume of expensive parts, and it'll still be inexpensive. Yeah, and that's how you wind up with a Golf as a little bitty luxury car. Although I think we can all agree that the Volkswagen Phaeton was probably one step too far. A $100,000 VW People's Car?! That just did not fly in the showrooms! I think Piech's ego was getting a little bit the best of him. It How dumb or how smart? Because, don't forget, the Volkswagen Phaeton was good enough that it could be sold for two decades as a Bentley -- at two and three times that price! Phaeton = Bentley?! I didn't even know that! I guess it didn't really matter that the Phaeton was a disaster in the showrooms. Piech still had the last laugh. [IDIOTIC LAUGHTER] I take over zee vorld! Ve put a Bentley badge on a Volkswagen und zey buy it! [Maniacal Laughter] Turn the Air Conditioning down, please. This time, nobody was laughing. You already know that the Bugatti Veyron was the fastest car in the world. What you probably don't realize is that Dr. Piech didn't care about that. If he did, the Veyron wouldn't have been nearly that fast. It didn't just reclaim the road-car record from a certain McLaren, it utterly destroyed the McLaren F1, which, as delivered, only did 350ish km/h. Piech set this car's top speed at a very precise 407 km/h, not an even, marketing friendly 400, but 407. Out of the showroom. No mods. And the reason why? Because winning the top speed battle had nothing to do with other road cars. This was about race cars. And the Veyron's target was to avenge the loss of his all-conquering Porsche 917... that had been taken away from him when he and all the cousins were kicked out of Porsche Management. In the intervening years, a crucial racing record had been taken from the 917: The Peugeot WM P88 now held the record for the highest speed ever achieved on the Mulsanne Straight at Le Mans. That speed was 407 km/h. That was the Veyron's target! And it's kind of hard to think of a bigger middle finger to a race car than building a road car that's just as fast, but also happens to be an exquisitely crafted luxury car that your grandmother could drive to church. When it comes to showing off a company's Power, Acceleration, and Top Speed. And the Veyron held the record for all three. However, there's another yardstick that's of no less sex appeal to engineers and that's efficiency. 250 mph wasn't enough for Dr. Piech, He also wanted 250 miles per gallon. And he got it. This is a mid-engined two-seater, like the Veyron. The whole car is carbon fiber, like the Veyron. It has carbon-ceramic brakes and a seven-speed DSG, like the Veyron. Its door hinges and gas struts are works of industrial art -- even better than the Veyron's. And, like the Veyron, it's turbocharged. And what the hell is it? Well if you'd let me finish my voice over, I was just about to say... &quot;It is the Bugatti Veyron of MPGs. The Volkswagen XL1.&quot; By all rights, the Volkswagen XL1 should have been a cardboard rolling science experiment with wires hanging everywhere and parts falling off. They only made 200 of these things -- Bugatti made made more than twice that many Veyrons. When it comes down to low-volume, experimental cars it doesn't get any more low-volume than this. And yet the car is staggeringly well-built. This is a real, complete car! A complete car with one eighth as many cylinders as a Veyron. But two is clearly enough. Because we are doing 100 miles per hour... in the world's first car to ever be government rated at less than 1 liter per 100 km. This used 0.9 -- that is 261 miles per gallon! Though probably not at these speeds. And at the end of this video, we'll link to our Revelations Episode on it because the XL1 story is really, really, And key point (literally) its key was identical to the Golf's key. Which was identical to the Phaeton's key. Which was identical to the Veyron's key, because this one part was good enough for all of them. Piech's part-sharing strategy had won him the game of the automobile. He owned everything -- Volkswagen, Audi, Porsche, Bentley, Bugatti, to say nothing of Lamborghini, Seat and Skoda. VW had everything from the bottom of the market to the absolute top. And so in April 2015, at the age of 78, Dr. Ferdinand Karl Piech tendered his resignation to the Volkswagen supervisory board, knowing he'd done it all. Or maybe he just knew what was coming next. Just 5 months later, Volkswagen was in big trouble. &quot;German automaker Volkswagen is in court today facing a class-action lawsuit over an emissions cheating scandal; the so-called Dieselgate.&quot; &quot;They actively, very scientifically, very thoroughly, planned how they were going to defraud the US government.&quot; And at the core of it all, Piech's beloved TDI engine. After installing a defeat device that would allow noxious emissions in the real world, while appearing to be clean on government tests, Dieselgate has now cost Volkswagen almost $40 Billion. It killed off the diesel passenger car completely in the US -- mortally wounded it in Europe, too. Last year, Europeans bought more electric cars than they did diesels. Piech maintained he had no knowledge of the defeat devices, and that might well be true because they were all engineered and implemented after his mandatory retirement age, where he sat on the supervisory board, ostensibly just watching over the company. Or he could have just killed people. No one knows. What we do know is that Piech's named successor, Martin Winterkorn, is now a fugitive of US law. And he's about to start his own trial in Germany. Maybe then, we'll find out whether he ever told Dr. Piech about the defeat device that he approved for use when, for once, Volkswagen's Engineers couldn't pull off the impossible. It's not just Diesel and Dr, Piech that are both gone. Like Dr. Piech himself, this Bentley is 50% Porsche DNA. But this will be the last Bentley ever to use a Piech-era W-engine. And it doesn't end there. Bugatti didn't just confirm the end of the W16. The whole brand was so lost without Dr. Piech that it turned over the keys to a Croatian upstart (Rimac.) The VR6 engine is dead. The Audi 5-cylinder is on Death Watch, installed in only one car. Even the Golf, the centerpiece of Volkswagen's lineup for 50 years, is on life support. Dieselgate spelled the sudden ending of TDI, and it should have set Volkswagen up to dominate the EV Market by forcing it to pivot more quickly than any other But instead, we got an ID.Disaster. Without Piech at the helm, Volkswagen was just lost. And so now, looking back on that 30-year period where Volkswagen was on top of the world, we, know that chapter didn't belong to Volkswagen. That chapter belonged to just one man. Who? WHO!? TELL ME! What a chapter it was. As an example of just how stout Piech-era engineering was, this Veyron was driven into a saltwater Lagoon. Thanks to Piech, it's here. Thanks to Houston Costa, this very Veyron is here! He chronicled resurrecting the &quot;Scubatti&quot; like a hero, and then sent it to us to abuse. It's pretty amazing. There's a link to his videos below you should watch them. Also, don't forget to click on the link at the top of your screen to see our whole episode on the absolutely astonishing Volkswagen XL1, the supercar, supermileage, superthing that you've never even heard of. Bye. Thanks for watching!