- This is a Python list, and they are ridiculously powerful and pretty fun to play with. So in this episode, get you coffee ready the what and why of this and how it will open up a whole new world of Python goodness. You ready? Let's dive in. (soft groovy music) Okay, here we go. One more sip of coffee. Let's get started. So we covered a variable, we create it, assign it a simple piece of data, and we can use it everywhere It's awesome. But let me show Because you and I, we're What, you didn't know? Yeah, come on. But first we need our let's get that running real quick. So check that link to get access to a free But while your lab is loading up, let me tell you about the and why it can be free here on YouTube; ITProTV. They are by far my favorite They are what I use to on all the latest things in IT. From automation, which dad gum look at all to all things Cisco. Holy crap, look at all the Cisco stuff. ENCOR, DevNet, CCNA, They have everything you need to go crazy in Python right now if you just cannot wait and you wanna go further, this is it. Seriously, check it out, link below. But that's not all, a fuckin' they do have more than training. They have, hey look, practice test. To get you ready for those crazy exams. Or how about a lab to actually Look at all these labs. So, if you wanna learn IT like me, check it out, link below. Use code NETWORKCHUCK Seriously, they are awesome. So yeah, your lab should be up So, we're going on a camping trip. And like all camping trips, Tent, sleeping bags, ethernet cables, marshmallows, The essentials. Now here's what I need you to do. I need you to create a variable. And I want that to equal all Go ahead and do it right now. In fact, we'll do it together So using the knowledge we we might do this. Camping stuff. Variable created. Let's have it equal something. Equals. And, you know what, we'll just Tent, sleeping bags, jump forward in time and And if we print the variable camping stuff and we run our code, go and That works, but it doesn't. Because right now this is one It's bloated. It's ugly. I hate it. It's really hard to use, We can do better. Instead of storing all of our we could try out something really cool, something amazing, something something called a Python list. (Chuck chuckling) Let's do this. Which honestly makes total sense, 'cause we're trying to make a Hey, Python list. It just all adds up. It's all comin' together here. So I'm gonna create a new Just like before, but Don't worry. I'll walk you through it. Brackets. That's the Buckle your seatbelt. Coffee break. And time to build the list. You can step forward in Jump forward in time. Woo. Done. That was exhausting. Need a coffee break. Okay, and also I want So I know it's a lot of typing, whatever. Just do it. It's not too hard. This right here is a Python list. And it's so awesome for so many reasons, way better than this idiot over here. And I will go into why, but first let's get a on what a Python list is. Go ahead Bernard. - [Bernard] A Python list is an ordered and changeable collection of data objects. Unlike an array, which can a list can contain a mixture of objects. - Now first before we talk I want you to print the type of data this camping list variable is. Just go ahead and print Do you remember how? Here's how we do it. Print using our print function. And then in the print function and that'll just print the 'Cause I don't wanna lie to that this is a data structure called list. Let's go ahead and run the code. Run. And there it is suckers, I told you. A data class, a data I'm tellin' you, this is to Python coding. We're gonna spend a lot of time Okay. Anyways. I'm excited I'm gonna delete this stuff real quick and we'll talk about with this stuff up here. Now you can recognize a list because it'll always have Bam, and bam. It has to have those. And then inside that list And notice how the data There they all are. Now real quick, let's bask So up here, right? Is a big ugly strings. One big fat string. Down here, we got a bunch Like how many we have here. Count for me. I'll do it. We have 10 individual pieces of data inside this one variable. So much better, right? You're probably thinking, We'll get to it. We'll get to it. I'll show you a use case here. But can I tell you something It can have more than just Let's try it out, actually. So, let's create a new list. And I wanna name this camp_site. And actually, I want you to do this. And here's the data I It'll be campsite information. First, the name of our camp will be Crystal Lake. Sounds perfectly safe. And then of course we'll which will be 404. And then they expect a It's gonna be a balmy 89.3 degrees. And then one more piece of data. Is this place dangerous? True or false? It's gonna be true. It is dangerous. So, make our campsite list. Go for it now. Pause. Unpause. coffee break. Let's go ahead and do it. To make our list we'll and our amazing Python replit First data, Crystal Lake, is a string. Cool. We got that. Comma, space. Space is optional, Do a space just 'cause it looks prettier. And we're all about pretty. Next piece of data. 404. That's gonna be a number, Done. Just like that, no quotes. Space, or comma space. Temperature. 89.3 degrees. Fahrenheit people. I'm And then finally, is it dangerous? Yeah. True. Cool. So (Chuck chuckles) how amazing is this? Here in this list we have four different We got a string, we have an I don't know why I say So now I think you're startin' to see how amazing the list are. They can hold multiple pieces of data and different types of data. Doesn't that make you If it doesn't, man, sip some more coffee and then come back to me, okay? Rewind. Now here comes the killer. (Chuck chuckles) killer. The killer part of list. If you remember what they are ordered. What does that mean? I'll explain it by showing You ready for this? Okay. Here we go. Let's say that out of to assign who's going to bring So for example, me, I'm Right? You saw that coming. And you. You're coming, right? Yeah. You're coming. You're gonna bring marshmallows Here's how I can assign Oh, it's so powerful. Watch this. This is gonna blow your mind. I'll create the variable me and the list camping list, And then in those brackets What just happened? What am I doing? Watch. I'm going to print Let's run it. Run. Did you just see that? (Chuck laughing) Sorry. I know it's it seems like but I'm really this excited about it. I'm not kidding. Right here. It printed just coffee. Just that one string, that Now go ahead and do Do you remember what you're bringing? Go ahead and do it real quick. Pause the video, do and then print out that one item. Go. Unpause. Okay. How would you do that? Create the variable you, and then brackets, let's see You were bringing marshmallows, which is the last in our list, which means marshmallows will be nine. Did you get that right? I'll explain why it's but let's go ahead and print it out. I'll put it below me. Printing you now. And run. Coffee and marshmallows. Yes. So when I say the list is ordered, or you might see people in a sequence, or sequenced, when you put your stuff, the order you put it in Which is great because we can do things like reference the individual So when it says ordered, it just means, hey, that it's in that same order all which we'll talk about later. But then real quick, hold Because if we're looking at our list here, we got one, two, three, and then four. Raspberry pi is four. Coffee should have been five, right? No, we're dealin' with computers and computers have to You might realize and remember and know that computers always That's what they do. So test would be zero. Then one, two, three, bringin' Which is why marshmallows, would actually be 9. So in a list with 10 items, your last number will Just keep that in mind. That always messes me up so I just have to manually, It's fine though. But this right here, what we and it'll become more when we do something later. I can't tell you yet. I wanna tell you, but you have to wait. But diving deeper into that, you'll also see list That's kinda just another Ordered, sequenced, indexed. And when I say indexed, it just means that each item in our It's just the order it's in. And when we reference a list like this, we're calling out the index of that item. We're going, hey, ah, Item number four. Pull it out. That's what we're doing. How cool is that? And you probably already to reference a item in a we use brackets. Now, quick coffee break. I wanna cover one more thing but can we just do it real quick? It's gonna be fun. It's Coffee break. It has to do with indexing. And actually I'm gonna I'm gonna change you. Your variable you. You're still bringing marshmallows, but I'm gonna change the with that list. Watch this. I'm gonna change that nine to, Now what do you think is gonna Let's try it out. Let's run our code. Hey look, it stayed the dang Well, that's called a negative index. It does come in handy. But essentially what you're doing is you're counting in reverse. So instead of starting up here, we're starting all the way back here. So the very last item in our And you're probably thinkin', well, Chuck, nuh uh, It's not. Just isn't. You can't have negative Anyways, sorry. I didn't mean I'm just kidding. I wasn't. But that's a handy way to access You're probably thinking, Why would we ever do that? Well, sometimes you may And other times there to access the last item in a list. You'll find out that later. But let's try it one more. What happens if we do, to negative two. Negative two. Let's try Bam. Beard oil. It's now the second to And real quick, I can't believe Shame on me. Let's go ahead and print the entire list at the very end here. Just print camping list. Run. Cool. So when we print the It looks just like our Let me scroll up so you can see it. The only difference is that it uses single quotes It breaks our standard. It's okay though. We'll forgive it. Now, I told you didn't I? I wasn't lying. Python lists are really Now, you probably understand even just now, but you have What you can do with it's just gonna be mind blowing. So, I know you can't wait, go ahead and move forward Now, if you're watching on (Chuck groaning) it's not here. I know. I create them in batches and sometimes month by month, No, I do release them frequently, but they do have them in advance which you can check out in the link below. Also in Network Chuck on the stuff we're covering. So if you're like, hey, I but I wanna play with it a bit more. First, play with it But also, I'm gonna have some exercises, some labs, and some quiz questions along with all of this so check it out, link below. Oh and also, hey, I'm Have you hacked the Let's make sure you do. Hit that like button, notification Did I hit everything? Yes. You gotta hack YouTube today. Ethically, of course. Yeah. That's all I got. And also, again, a huge shout out to the sponsor of this Again, if you're trying to get into IT, if you wanna learn anything in IT, get certification or just learn a skill, dude, they're the place to go. Again, if you use my code NETWORKCHUCK you get 30% off forever. Don't miss that deal. It's not goin' away 'cause I said forever, but you still, just don't waste time. Don't don't wait till You can start learning right now. You got a career in a month. Just do it. I'll catch you guys later. I'm done talking. Coffee break. (soft groovy music)