CC by Aberdeen Captioning male announcer: &quot;In Touch&quot; reaching the world with the through sound biblical teaching. Next on &quot;In Touch,&quot; Dr. Charles Stanley: When you life and you feel like you need that you know to do as far as you need a little help. And when that's true, Well, let me ask you this. When your children are grandchildren, where Do they turn to you? If they can't turn to you, Because you see, if you can't usually you'll turn to And so, finding true guidance We live in a world that creates situations and circumstances; himself or herself. We all need someone we can talk with or be willing to share what And so, when I think about that scriptures that come to my mind, morning is so crystal clear. It's talking about being How am I guided by God? And that's the title &quot;Guided by God.&quot; If I'm not guided by Him, Everybody needs guidance at So turn to Psalm thirty-two. And I want to begin reading in about this subject, but it's a through the eleventh verse of And so David starts out in the God, &quot;You are my hiding place.&quot; You--I have somewhere to run &quot;You preserve me from trouble; You surround me I will instruct you and teach go; I will counsel you Do not be as the horse or as understanding, whose trappings them in check, otherwise they Many are the sorrows of the Lord, lovingkindness shall Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, for joy, all you who are So first of all what I want you Here's a promise from Listen to what He says, &quot;I will the way which you should go.&quot; So, the first thing I want you this promise. Who is the I? The I is God. God is saying in all of His power, in all that He is, He creator of the ends of the Not maybe, not I could, not I'd This is a commitment by instruction in our life. Now, listen carefully. Are you listening? The value of the promise depends A lot of people can make God can make you a promise and whether He's going to keep So when He says, &quot;I will making that statement? That is Almighty God. The value of any promise character of the promiser. So when you and I promise keep it or not says something If we're true to our word and make a promise, we'll keep it. Here is a divine promise. Here is an eternal promise from will instruct you and teach you So watch this. If God is instructing us with discern truth from error. If we're only listening to the to hear a lot of error and lead us in the right direction. So think about how He says, first of all, He says, &quot;I'm going to give He says, &quot;I'll tell you what to I will instruct you. I'll make it very specific. I won't be just 'Well, you ought to do So here is God who knows you you're capable of doing and what possibilities are; what His will He says, &quot;I will instruct you.&quot; Then He says, &quot;Not only will I will also teach you. I'm going to show you how to It's one thing to have It's something else to know how given situation. And when it comes to having your life, lot of questions you that person. And so He says, &quot;I will In other words, &quot;I'm going to I'm going to help you understand He says, &quot;I will instruct you you should go.&quot; Not many ways, but of all the decisions you can make, of all I'm going to teach you Look, He says, &quot;In the way Not could do, go, maybe go, &quot;I'm which you should go.&quot; And most decisions are critical And sometimes it's a little You say, &quot;Well, it's but what is He says, &quot;I'm going to teach you I'm going to teach you how to I'm going to instruct you. I'm going to teach you,&quot; And then of course, you reminder of the Holy Spirit. When you got saved, the Spirit Trinity, came to indwell you for this is one of them. He says in the thirteenth verse John, &quot;But when He, the Spirit you into all the truth; He will but whatever He hears, He will it to you what is to come.&quot; That is, He says, So you have the--you have assurance that within you is the God sent for a number of to give you guidance and And so David, writing back Spirit ever came to be in the says, &quot;I'm going to instruct you which you should go.&quot; You and I have the Holy Spirit, living within us, One of His primary and me in the truth, which means the Godhead, who one of His you and I come to making a Holy Spirit to guide us. He knows all the facts. He knows truth from error. He knows the difference bad, and indifferent. He knows what the will He knows that if you take this take this turn, it'll be Because He knows your future, It looks like this is He knows what tomorrow holds. And many people make decisions say before they come to the end If-I'd-a, If-I'd-a. If-I'd-a made that decision, Why did I--why--what would He says, &quot;I will instruct in the way you should go.&quot; You and I never have to come &quot;I'm hopelessly and I don't know what to do.&quot; Yes, you do! You turn to God first, who truth,&quot; and who says, &quot;I will I will teach you in the And then if you'll notice He says, &quot;I will counsel I'm--He says, &quot;I'm going to I'm going to counsel you Two things here. First of all, He says, That says something to me about &quot;I'm not just going to give you I'm not just going to answer going to counsel you.&quot; Counsel means we're going to Counsel means He knows past, Counsel means on the basis of the basis of His love; on the for my life and your life, He's going to counsel us. That is, I don't have to worry going to happen if the Spirit And so, listen to what He says. Not only will He counsel us, but you with My eye upon you.&quot; Which says that you and I walk all-seeing eye of a loving committed to giving us direction And so it's foolish, it is foolish to make decisions It's foolish to make decisions wisdom and understanding because And think about the awesome us guidance knows your future breathe the last breath. And His guidance is based on He always wants He loves us enough to And He says, &quot;I'm going with My eye upon you.&quot; He knows all the circumstances. He knows what you and This is an awesome passage He says, &quot;I will teach And He says, &quot;I will guide you Then He gives us a warning. Look at this: &quot;Do as the mule which have That is, animals don't The only sense they have &quot;Whose trappings include bit and otherwise they will He says, &quot;Don't be as the in other words, you've got to control you, &quot;whose trappings them in check, otherwise they That's right. &quot;Many are the And that's His way of saying, You're stubborn. You're going to have it your He says, &quot;Many are the And what he's simply This is--these are the absolutely will not And the words he uses here, sorrows of the wicked.&quot; And he's referring to people He says, &quot;Many are the And he says, &quot;Many are the kinds of trouble comes when you His teaching, His instruction into all kind of situations. Because you see, if you ignore you'll do it again. And there are many people who rebellion to God. They wouldn't ever admit it. They just say, &quot;Well, I just don't have to depend upon God or And you know what they're doing? They're making wrong decisions. They may make a lot of money and &quot;Many are the sorrows Those who live in rebellion instruction and counsel of And oftentimes, the consequences that you're smarter than God. And God tries to make things as for us. And yet there are some Watch this. He says, &quot;I.&quot; That is, omniscient God who &quot;I will teach you. I will instruct you. I will guide you. I'll cover you. I will counsel you wisely.&quot; A person is a fool To think that you're smart make wise decisions in a world and so full of fear and He says, &quot;Many are the That's the fruit of rebellion. And then notice what he says, sorrows of the wicked, but he lovingkindness,&quot; listen to this, Be glad in the Lord, rejoice you joy, all you who are He said, &quot;Here's the difference. You follow My guidance,&quot; and He And He didn't say--I love this. He didn't say, He said, &quot;Lovingkindness &quot;Will surround you.&quot; Everywhere you turn, you will goodness and kindness. You say, &quot;Well, but you don't Would you have been So God, He doesn't say that heartaches and burdens, because burdens are what grow us up, Make changes in our life that we something happens to us that He says, He says, you,&quot; that means it's going to His lovingkindness will We may falter at times; But we ask Him to forgive us, He says His instruction and His stop simply because we falter make a wrong decision. Any time we are willing to that we didn't seek godly to the wrong ones, He's and to keep us moving. That's His lovingkindness. He says His lovingkindness And so how does He--what is He says, here's what happens. Then you'll, &quot;Be glad in the ones; shout for joy, all you who That is, there is a gladness, of confidence, there's a sense In other words, when we're going situations, if we are following and His counsel, we're going to come through it, and God's going Now, that's an awesome passage And I would say if you were student or your grandson, to take with them, this would &quot;I will instruct you. I will teach you. And I will guide you. I will counsel you with Let me ask you a question. Who does not need that? We all need it. And we'll need it through the What an awesome promise of The tragedy is, many people have Many people don't know it, and They say, &quot;Well, you know, I Oh, yes, you do! Because you see, the reason you you need God. You think you don't. When you're flat down, hurting; hopeless; maybe you'll never again; whatever it But if you're in good health, This is this awesome, loving God &quot;If you'll just listen to I'll give you instruction. I will teach you what And I will guide you. Twenty-four hours a day, seven moment of your life.&quot; If you have never trusted Jesus sorrows is in your path. If you've trusted Jesus Christ attempting to live a godly life happiness and peace, even amidst there's an awesome sense of the And that's my prayer for you. If you've never trusted Jesus as important decision you'll And all of us who are His important decision One of these days you're going You know death's coming, you can to; there is only one person There's only one person of those final moments. There's only one person who can heaven, and that is You may not believe what ask you this question. If not Jesus, who? Who else has not only promised His death on the cross? Whoever you are, at least to Jesus Christ. Watch what He does in your life. Remember, you have two choices; the way of many sorrows. If you're wise, you take And Father, how grateful we are forgive us of our sins. When we falter and fall, You When we ask for direction, When we stand at the crossroads You always show us I pray that Your Spirit will so deep in the heart of every wrestle with the truth until those who are being instructed, Lord Jesus Christ, in whose