[mellow acoustic guitar plays] [water flowing] [Peter] Good morning, guys. And last week's video was about This week's video We're gonna be in A man reached out to me, &quot;Peter, everyone thinks of when they think of Switzerland and I'd like to show you.&quot; So today we're gonna go with a local who understands and is gonna teach us about Let's do this. [music continues] [Peter] So this is outskirts of Zurich? [Michael] This is industrial zone Been factories as well -So how do you speak English so well? You almost have like an Aussie accent TV and friends. -Really? You never lived abroad? -Swiss-born, Swiss-made? -You love it? It is beautiful. We do have more freedom I believe so or I feel that way. In Europe or the whole world In Europe things are changing, during the last five years. In Switzerland? As well in Switzerland. We do have the impact the biggest problem of Switzerland. It's a small country -And this is probably the worst looking -Right there. That's about as bad as it gets, right? -I can show you a worse one in Zurich. We might go there actually when we see -Ex-needle park? So used to have an open-air drug market? Was a huge area. For 20 years there was an open drug scene. Everybody saw that it is two minutes to the luxury street Really? In Switzerland? Downtown. Okay, that's something -Was it heroin or what was it? It was mainly heroin It's crazy I remember Had to go to the motorway Just seeing the people there hanging and that was weird. -Have you been given the gift -Not yet but there is It starts slowly coming here as well. I don't know if it is expensive or not -It's dirt cheap in Arizona right now. It's about $2.00 a pill. It's called a Fentanyl Blue. Which is less than a bottle of water -Wow. -It's wild. Okay, so we're gonna go where that existed but you can explain how it got cleaned up. 'Cause that's interesting. Maybe and another point of these videos, as an outsider, and as someone I lived a winter in Switzerland So I have a bit of a history I feel Switzerland everyone can learn something form. It's not a perfect place. But as far as having it together it's better off than most I would say. I do agree absolutely on that. I would love to get into Like we can show the changes. This is your video. You can see all the buildings being built -Okay. And people want to be close to a town, They don't want to have cars anymore. -Be able to walk, or go by bike, or bus. [Michael] Here we are -You get a little taste of LA here -[laughs] Exactly, As a kid I loved it. -Have you been to the US? Which I both loved, the boats, I've been to Hooters with my dad. That was quite interesting -That was one of your first Probably yes. Okay, how old were you with pops? I think I was 16. Okay. Awkward? Little bit awkward or... No, I quite enjoyed it to be honest. It was interesting to see and... But one of the memories I had as well, Just had an operation actually before The crutches? Crutches, exactly. Doesn't matter where I was going, there was great service somebody came with a wheelchair, and that was very special to me. 'Cause we didn't have that here All the size of everything of course. I remember when we my dad gave him some money and we Florida, that was awesome. Just loved it. Highways, the distances. The American way of life we've been quite influenced computer games at some point. -Okay. It was cool. The American way of life, -How 'bout now? It changed a bit. Still there is a free country Start as a dishwasher maybe I believe that has changed as well. Like the whole world has changed America was a free thing -Yeah. Yeah, opened a business basically. [Michael] That's the Jewish part You see quite often -Okay. It was always like that and that's exactly or Zurich in particular. Doesn't matter what you are. -It's pretty mixed up? It's very international as well. You have people from all over the world. Especially my days growing up here and around Zurich. Doesn't matter what you are. -You can be part of that, of the town. We have sports guys, the music guys, the religious thing, We have Jewish churches. Doesn't matter what. It was a way of living everybody together. That is changing now a bit as well. -That's changing? How so? Well as I said, There's too many people here It's not because they hated the people. It gets overcrowded Streets are too small. Traffic is jammed up all the time. Kindergarten places, Not enough space for people. A family moving away -Rent prices have gone up? [Peter] I mean who does The detail of the three -It looks cool though. If you wouldn't say it I would not see it -I mean nobody does a parking garage [Michael] Now we're really I've been swimming quite often actually. Jumping from the bridge you can see there. -It's that clean you can swim in here? Would this be the New York of Switzerland? Obviously it's nothing like it -Yes, I'd say so. Diplomatic capital. -So that's the DC? Yeah, you could say so in my opinion. [Peter] And look how clean This is... It's what it's known for. [Michael] Absolutely. That's what Swiss people want not just the Swiss, everybody lives here. We want to keep it that way, and independent. Many people coming to the country... I do not want to say that's bad people. Not at all but it gets full. -Okay. Which are not maybe used to They'll have to adapt Okay, so is that Absolutely. You feel good about people coming here into the ways but if someone comes and they don't -Is that what you're saying? Swiss people know the way Switzerland is. Clean, everything is on time. Everything works well. -We want to keep it that way. So is there a problem right now or assimilating into the culture? Yes, I'd say slowly, yes. -Okay. -But you know, it's not that If you're not used to that, You need to get to know I feel like if you move to and I've done it four times. I've lived in Switzerland, short stint. I lived in Spain for a short stint. Thailand for a short stint, and Ukraine for four years. I'm sure some people will call me out but I feel like you are a guest. It's like you're going And how do you come in? Do you thank them for inviting you over? Do you maybe even bring something? You offer something, you add something? Or do you walk in with muddy boots And so there's a different way And I think universally to be cool with anyone and what exists there, and that usually works really well. I've seen it all over the world. But yeah, that friction comes and they don't care And of course you want to preserve. You want to keep this obviously. -Like this is something very special. Been over many, many years people coming from all and it worked fantastically. The integration within the Swiss culture. -Yeah. Okay, so it's a really hard topic because if you talk about it right off the bat typically and that's why people shy away from it but I think it is a because we do see a lot of migration I've been noticing 'cause I travel and America's always been Everyone... To me it was always like and they sort of get along pretty well. It's a cool experiment. Humans work as tribes traditionally, and they stay with their tribes, and anything that But America started off an idea, invited all the people there. Yeah, it's got a bad history too. We all know that if someone comes to the country, and if they're cool and respectful It's similar here absolutely. Everybody's welcome, come here fine but you need to work As you say, when I'm going to and I want to respect their culture. I want to get to know their culture but that's a normal thing for me. For many Swiss as well We want to have people coming here Not telling them you can't have -That's not the point. Work, have a good life. You know Peter, doesn't matter one thing I've found everywhere, that's families and wanting Raise your kids, have a job, Yeah. -It's a global thing in my opinion. [Michael] I think with these problems why are people leaving their countries Which is understandable. [Peter] Oh, yeah. [Michael] What I'm missing we grab the problem by its root. It's not a solution of having millions We need to solve the problems Yeah. Sometimes I have the feeling, you know, Look at the wars going on With that money you could do There are people and organizations Yeah, that's a big topic, fixing the world The story of time And so there'll always be a place and if you're ambitious you're gonna go 'cause you want a better life, right? So my family did it three generations ago. Left Italy because things were so bad. At the age of 18, 19, got on a boat, and came over to the US They were looked down upon I'm sure. There was a lot of beef between the Irish There was no handouts, no, &quot;Hey American taxpayer, you better pay my way.&quot; That didn't exist back then. I believe many people if people coming to a country are being that is of course a problem. -Yeah, yeah, yeah. -People have a problem with that as well. In Switzerland You do have the middle class, -Yeah, we gotta get into that today I show you a parking garage that looked like it was just -Probably is. -[laughter] And you walk around this and &quot;Yeah, this place is loaded. Everyone is just crushing it You gonna show me -Absolutely. [Peter] So growing up in Switzerland do you just look at everything as, I always love to -So you guys have never had an issue Of course things happen but... It's not as much as you would say Police is quite good in Switzerland. All the safety is quite high. -They're pretty well respected No, they are. -It's the way you talk to other people. They can see the Swiss mentality a bit. How do you talk to others? -That can help also in these situations. Here as well, there are problems maybe a burglary happens here as well that the Swiss train network does have. -Okay, so that board is pretty much -Exactly. We have connection with Although these days there's or Swiss trains going into Germany. German rail is not what it used to be. -Really? The interconnection going from they go into Germany, they have being on time. The Germans aren't on time these days? -Changes a bit. That's what people see a we better not let it come to that point. Okay, so I bet you guys in different countries in Europe and are Absolutely. -Is that what that is? Part of it will be be our Somehow not in the European community but we are based in the heart of Europe. So we can't... don't want to close off. Yeah, but most of your lawmaking Absolutely, we have Although now there is big talks some of Swiss law into European law. Of course some are for that, Basically saying some European courts Centralized European power If there is a problem, I don't know, Okay. They can rule out what this European court would rule out and we can't do anything against that. [Peter] Okay, so we wanna go right there but the Swiss thing is go way up -Absolutely, I mean it is there for -I would say if there is nobody coming but you're saying Of course some people do but it is there -But so everything works-- [Peter] Yeah. this order stuff becomes more attractive. Like if I was... when I was in my younger 20s I was like this place Same for me. Too many rules. Now coming up on mid-forties with let's just say it sort of feels nice. I completely agree. [Peter] There's no right or wrong way. Switzerland is the way it is Yes. But if I want a festive fun time As far as a spontaneous beach vibe There's also places like that definitely. Especially mountains as well or around But it wouldn't be No. Swiss are maybe not known and spontaneous, all that. -Can you hold that? You can't say all Swiss are the same It doesn't work like that -Actually Europe does a good job Creating an easy label. Not all Europeans obviously loves to shat all over the US. You notice that ever? They never show anything They show... To be fair You're getting Popeye's, and McDonald's, and stuff like that. You're not getting what's cool Not only that. No, no, it's not completely true I'd say. Of course it's very political But it's worth seeing. It's a beautiful country. You have everything, you have the sea, Doesn't matter what you want to do, You have space. That's one thing we don't have. -Yeah, there's elbow room. I mean imagine I want to have a farm my bike there or I don't know. -Your dirt bike? It's just not possible here. -Okay, what's going on here, Michael? That's the so-called ex-needle park an open drug scene here. Most heroin, stuff like that. It was full of these, Nobody just does that for fun. -So for 20 years that was going on Well they tried to change that. I mean it got bigger, and bigger, These people need to organize and end of the day, after 20 years, the town said we have to change that. -Okay. Also for different reasons, One of the reasons. But it's just not okay Okay, give us some tips 'cause we need The beginning was they pushed a bit further down here than this. There, a bit more away but what happened then, In terms of hygiene. They gave out needles, clean ones, safe spaces to do their drug They even at some point handed out So it was on a medical basis but as well on a social one to help Okay, so I just want to unpack this because I was just in Kensington and that's a total disaster. -It's heartbreaking. Of course the name is a bit interesting Giving out needles To make it safer to use let's say, right? -Hepatitis. But you're enabling someone to continue So there's an ideological difference &quot;Hey, you're actually telling them consciously and subconsciously When in reality to be off of it Absolutely, it's not just It's also social workers and try to give them back a normal life. -Yeah. 'Cause I believe many of these people, as long as they still realize then in the meantime I don't know if and I don't believe so. -Yeah, and nobody's getting into that I'm gonna start using Fentanyl every day. -Exactly. And so the US needs to do something at a state and national level 'cause the problem's getting really bad Even in the countryside. So there has to be certain rehab, where you can't just, because they keep I don't think that's a solution there's rehab and whatever other services, maybe that is the way. I don't know. -It worked here for sure. It is gone and also the other place, and stayed them there It's also behind here, but it was a whole program. It's not just saying, &quot;It's forbidden, go away from here, No, it doesn't resolve the problem. Of course you have to try That's where they got the drugs from then they've been shifting -That happened at some point as well. But the program around it to give these people, will help you to have a normal life again. And also thinking Here has not just been people from Zurich. -All of Europe coming here. You lose your job, -And that is the social problem. Help them escape. -Show them there is a future for them. -If there's-- It's not for free and people... You need to find people It's not easy. I think if the structure I think a lot of people would do that work if the pay is good enough, As far as a nation, I'm talking about the US a lot if you don't take care of that problem your nation is gonna suck down the road. So like it might cost a lot if you want to have I'll say it that way, what happened here many countries around us whatever you want to call it And then try to resolve It's what works. So it was kind of and showed others it is doable. If it was successful here then learn from someone that did it right. You don't reinvent the wheel, right? Imagine being a politician, you have you can distribute that budget -Different people have different opinions. But there are ways to do it. You just have... -You have to want to do it. And unfortunately the way things work there's no money to be made in it really. Maybe a little, I don't know but the money goes where the money -I mean in Switzerland as well there's of banks going almost bankrupt Which worked at the end of the day got the money back from these banks. It's not the point, but as I said, and even a down lower class of people. Which are struggling with We're seeing the beautiful part now. -Yeah. It gets worse and worse. A lot of people are struggling. Of course you don't see them, That's why it's clean because there are many, many people You know, people, cleaning toilets and all these things. Who wants to do these jobs? But somebody will have to but be assured they're not living [Peter] Ciao. Okay, so-- Let's grab a bottle of water. That's the thing he says -So we respect that. There was a guy Absolutely, from Jehovas. Jehova's Witnesses which I think it's a pretty... A very conservative form of Christianity -To be honest -Are you a religious guy? I do believe in higher power somehow. There is something above us but... -We're not going to church this Sunday? Rather go pick mushrooms Same, I respect all beliefs tough. And I've become better at that I respect religion more for many people. It can be used in a negative way [Peter] Okay, so this is your -It's very nice. [Peter] Okay, show me the prices. Yeah, let's look at -Typical Swiss thing, right? Biological, how you say in English again? -Natural organic. -Yeah. -That's now 11 francs -Okay. Well if I'm comparing to the US, Things went up a lot in the US. That surprises me a lot when I'm going -Switzerland is very expensive food-wise. But how other countries who do not have have similar prices in terms of food -Yeah, like if you're making I don't know how people are doing it. Not talking the younger 20-something but you're an adult in your 30s or 40s and maybe you have kids, -Exactly. One thing with the kids as well, They can't keep their trousers -They need more raclette. -So what do your eggs cost here? -This is... Biological. -Okay, these are 5.30. So what's that in dollars, $6.50? -[scoffs] Yeah, maybe. -You're looking at $13 for 12 eggs, That's really spendy If we're gonna compare to our good eggs -That's very high as well. You can get cheaper eggs though for sure. -Compared again to the level of income. And for the chocolate lovers, -Oh yes, definitely. Something that Switzerland's known for. -That's four feet of Swiss chocolate? I mean what do you gravitate towards, -Mixed chocolate. Very famous for Switzerland. -Which one? Oh, Toblerone, Well that's a big story, -I heard something different yesterday. That's the thing. -These are the barricades from Germany in World War II. That was the way you guys set up and I saw those barricades That might be true but I wanted to say Everybody thinks it's a Swiss thing. -The factory is not in Switzerland. -It's not a Swiss product anymore. There's a French company I don't know where the factory is but it's such a Swiss thing. It was a Swiss thing, Toblerone. -Yeah, is there... I mean isn't that and you're gonna vote on that, to the homeland? Absolutely. So I'm not buying that anymore. I love the chocolate -They're making more money. People work in a factory in Switzerland for the price they need to have that, -What about the Lindt? -Please tell me this is Swiss, right? I can't tell you I cannot tell you but we can check. -It's... Where it is manufactured. -Usually these days you want it to be made in like Switzerland They want to show off that. &quot;Imported by Lindt &amp; Sprungli&quot;. It's import product. -Import product? -But again, here we have interesting part. That product can be different because we have different laws -Yes. -Maybe they're importing another Lindt to be able to sell it cheaper here. -Okay, so Lindt in the United States -I can't tell you but it's possible. I know as a fact that many foods are sold Fanta, for example, Because it needs to be -You're not using the food colorings? Exactly. There are drinks with that but for example, Fanta does not do it. -Yeah, I think your FDA's whatever it's called here I mean there's all sorts of chemicals In Europe many people say, &quot;Why Americans, and it has to do with food. With the culture of food. But I'm not saying it's their fault -What is your budget to buy food? It's restricted by that. -I mean to be fair, you could buy but that's tough, right? You could eat beans all day long. We'd have different problems then. Different problems. But I eat chocolate. I love chocolate. But you're right, And I'm not saying all of Europe. There is this misconception but I'll speak for Italy. Everybody thinks grandma's with no pesticides. It's not the truth. You go to grocery stores in Italy or many and they're getting it from Turkey We come back to the story, how many people How much food How much do you need to import as you want to have it? All these things keep on changing. Again, in Switzerland -You have to import a lot? I always pay where people are working 'cause I want these people Of course I see the point of having End of the day, they're replacing So I'm going here to pay Hold that. There ya go. Cameraman Michael. We have the Swiss... We don't know. Is it the Swiss chocolate? Swiss brand but where is it made? Let me tell you how it tastes. Gotta love that. Soft in the middle. A nougat, is that what you call it? -Probably, yeah. Mmm. -Nice? -Velvety smooth. All right, see ya, Michael. -I'm just gonna chill. Catch you later, mate. You want some? That's a big chunk. Tastes like home. [chuckles] [Swiss German] [Michael] It's a very famous coffee shop. -So this is a nightlife zone, huh? Very nice place here actually. It's a bit hidden, you go in here and then you find about 20 snooker tables But it's mixed, you have This place is actually Bellevue 'cause But here we have Zurich was always very, very open Gays and lesbians, nobody cared ever here. It was just a normal part of our society. You know, we've been at the point where Right. Now through some stuff which is going on people getting a bit more scared -Oh, really? It's again, stuff in media but I just want to say Zurich -Okay. Yeah, I feel like in our generation, -You're what, 44? Okay, so I'm 46, same age. Those issues were behind us. Yeah. Like when we grew up you had your Black friend, nobody cared. It wasn't an issue. It wasn't a thing and then it's like then brought back big contentious issue. I feel like it is an issue again somehow. Right, right. But we've been at the Right, and I don't care Why should I? We don't need to make a thing out of it. What do I care about Yeah, and now it just feels like it's and a lot of the gay people are like, &quot;Stop drawing all this attention. Gay people I know, they don't feel or less comfortable than with Right, right. Yeah, Yeah. What for, end of the day? We have accepted that here. Right. So our parent's generation, Yeah. And some of that generation Yeah. Bit loud here. -Okay, what are guys like this They're working for the city. -I have no idea. [Swiss German] [Michael surprised] Eh? Eh? [Swiss German] Wow. He said he's touching about Really? Which I'm surprised. Yeah, that's over 100K a year. Let's go over here, Peter. -Yeah. That's the point again. Depends, if he's alone If he has a wife who's taking care of kids they have two kids, you don't have a good life -Nine grand you don't have With two kids and a wife A bit more conservative -You're not making big moves. If they both work full-time they're having And you're healthcare, which I learned -You guys pay for it. -And it's not cheap? It goes up between five and ten percent -[surprised] Five and ten a year? Brutal. Geez. By the way, the opera of Zurich. -Okay, what's a price -Depends, you have different levels. If you want to be in a room with ten other or want to have a room on your own. -I like 30 personally. -30 people. Well I'd say for family, it's easy 1,200, 1,300 a month. -Okay. -But there's big dispute For example, there's this thing for people I don't want to name the product. There's some health insurance companies but other things they won't maybe pay. So people aren't okay with that. Others might spend money to go Why shall I pay for others -You know what's interesting and literally a couple miles that way you have a farmer with his cows. Yeah, that's the beauty. -Making cheese. [Michael] You take your bike here, [Michael] We're going to a place It's a hillside part of Zurich We are just here now -Your education's pretty good, right? There is one university called ETH. It's a technological high school. It belongs I think to the best top ten Then we have soldier. Just quite normal. He's probably going home and that's quite interesting Every member of the Swiss Army Yeah, yeah, I learned that yesterday. It's always discussed, If you see it that way, yes, that's true. Since a couple of years though back when you're not in service. But until then you had to take it home. So on a weekend you're sitting in a train, in their uniform with their guns. Just total normal picture. But you never have any shootings? No, not in the amount like States Does it ever happen? There was a big one In Parliament in the Canton of Zug and shot half of the parliament. -Okay. Otherwise we don't have shootings That doesn't happen. Not that people going out That just does not exist here. -Already here you can see nice houses. -Old homes, huh? -These are the old mansions? [Peter] So what do you think -Hmm. -I feel like every country Well being liberal in a good way. Which means accepting different views. Be it political or... So you guys are good at that? I do believe so, yes... [Michael] We still think or believe but we can see it's a boiling point -Tense? Right. That is a Swiss thing, the middle way. Doesn't mean everybody's okay with it -...for the total of people. So the US could take a note on that? I mean liberal, but just accepting other ways of living. But again, my thinking The US is built from immigrants, So it is their history as well For sure. I would say I'm all over the country I would say the divide, I don't see it at all. Nobody cares that you vote Now when you look at the media it looks like, you know, you hear Okay, anything can happen and accelerated through the political And everything has become You're on this team or that team that if this team is doing this thing then So there is the tension but I would say every day Americans, and you're going into a shop or something, people are gonna say hi and there's none [Michael] We need to listen [Peter] Yeah, for sure. [Michael] Finding common grounds [Peter] Yeah, I think you're right. Okay, this is one of -Yes. You still have normal houses here as well -That's interesting. Next to it there is... -That's in the multi-millions obviously? [Peter] Yeah, this is nice up here. [Michael] Of course Gold Coast, but you won't see them from outside -They're all behind walls? -Not necessarily walls but green stuff. So you just can't see it. They want to have their privacy It's something we don't have here at all We just don't know that. -You don't do that at all? [Peter] But I've noticed there's a lot of -Yeah, that's part of the new world. Speed trap but as well I'm glad we have that can be monitored better. On the other hand I like my privacy when I'm doing what I'm doing. Do you feel like the state has or you said earlier That's what you feel. It feels like having a lot of freedom. We know we are monitored here But it's not so obvious and not so brutal It's just, again, it's accepted [Peter] You have tall buildings down here. That's the more modern part of Zurich, This is more working-class people and not living the fancy life Which is a big part [Peter] If someone is really low the government helps? How does that work? -As long as you work they don't help. Once you lose your job, first of all -Okay. -And they'll pay you to keep your standard of living. You might need to change the flat. Another town or a smaller flat or so. That's possible as long as you've been employed -Okay, so this is -Yeah, you could say so. It's not rough, rough, but... -Yeah, obviously. It's loud more and houses Still nice places. -Okay, but this is -I would say yeah. -That's something to be proud of. -Yeah, you can see that way Doesn't mean people not happy here. In my younger days I used to which is totally fine. There's maybe more life even, -Right, more activity. -Yeah, in a different way and people maybe are This is your little bit -There's more blocks, you know, and... -And only in Switzerland outside of the city, right? That is such expensive real estate, -Everything. -This farmer is sitting on -Yeah. [mellow acoustic guitar plays] [Peter] When you see a house -Yeah. -Many families or how's the whole Well often they get it from their parents. -Parents die, they take over the house. Because if you have your average job here No. Well if two work, 70% rent here, right? 30% own? I woulds say so, yeah. It's quite normal. Always used to be like that. Of course less and less 'cause real estate price I think much more people would like -So that place over there? -That's typical farm family Having the fields, the farm. -And they can make a living -Yes. Because they already own their house? Exactly, most probably might be Switzerland is quite special. If you have a loan for your house, -Yeah. -You don't have to pay it back [Peter] Interesting. So what do you get, like a 50 year loan? [Michael] You just always redo it. Have a 10 year, 15, 20, whatever. Redo it, redo it, redo it. Of course many people start to pay off and bring it to a level but not killing it completely, because yeah, in a tax way it is clever to have -Okay, so there's a lot of that going on? Someone dies, they still owe Yeah, say my dad would have he dies, he hasn't paid back the loans, I just take it over Go on paying the loan. Little interest on it and that can go on from generation -So you guys still have -Yes. -Is that being threatened at all -No, it does change as well a bit. Bigger farms or companies but the state helps a lot with the farmers maybe from other countries Which is not possible in Switzerland but we try to do as much as we can. -And then this land in here, is this or what is this? -No, that's state land that belongs to maybe -Okay, yeah. -And that's public. So anybody's allowed to go into the woods. You might have a farmer who's taking care of the woods, and do some maintenance but mostly it is public land. [Peter] Okay, so it's sort of a formula of Right next to each other. A church, few stores, houses, farmer homes with fields outside. -Yeah. -And then areas like this, and then back Repeat, repeat, repeat. -Yep. ...pretty much look like -For the most part. There is going to be differences Maybe little towns, more off-grid. It won't be as clean [Michael] Typical Swiss thing, on a Sunday I'm not allowed to cut the grass That's too loud, doesn't work. It's very important to and Sunday is family, but no work if possible. This is Lake Hallwil, gorgeous place. On a Sunday you won't find a parking space because everybody's going to the lake. [Peter] God, it's so beautiful out here. [Michael] It is gorgeous. Switzerland is [Peter] What were you saying [Michael] That we are very proud on that. Which means everybody and collect enough people's signatures who are willing to sign their petition, Have the same idea Be it in just the part where we are -Yeah. Was a guy many years ago, he thought he wants to have because he believed So he did that and it worked. And the town voted on it? I think the whole of Switzerland -I'm not quite sure who did. But he was able to do that. Okay, and what were you saying Yeah, that's a topic in Switzerland So the point is we had a vote of about do we want to have And so the whole country was voting and saying, &quot;No, we don't want that.&quot; Now the government still wants to do it. -So what do you mean, like digital Everything, access internet. It's not quite clear what you need it for. Of course there are pros like safety -Yeah. -Other countries will require that the people of Switzerland said no to it and the state or the government and that's the first time Huge impact where the government which the whole population said no. End of the day, you know, people pay and the government in my view, [Peter] So have they [Michael] No, it's in talks. So that's a big issue Yeah, lots of talks about. Were you guys locked down hard Compared to other countries, no. There was a very short time Not in the same way as other countries. Schools been just closed -Okay, that's it? [Peter] You can see the snow What a beautiful view. [Michael] This is my country. This is Switzerland. -It's cool. And farmers. 150 years ago there was nothing. It has developed obviously. -And you were saying kids -Yeah. -One town up is another school district. Over here is another one. -Exactly. Down there another one. -And each one of these little places -That's wild. And then the alps in the backdrop there. -Exactly, on a nice day you see the alps. You know, I always used to say where other people do holidays. The the hotel we're just standing here. It is a hotel where people come and do, -Anything else you want to add? Go on Peter with your videos. -I really love them. -The world needs people like you. Appreciate it. Yeah, thanks for giving us Because as an outsider you never really Of course I've been showing you -Which doesn't mean it's the only truth. It's a beautiful country So that's maybe what people We're facing problems as well and yeah. -Awesome. -Thanks very much. All right guys, Thank you, Michael. Until the next one. [mellow acoustic guitar plays]