The F-35B is arguably the most advanced plane A jack of all trades. A stealth fighter plane, combining and improving and B-2. A highly maneuverable fighter plane capable targets. A stealth fighter, taking the lessons learned with the F-22 raptor and F-117 Nighthawk. A plane fitted with the most advanced sensors Sharing information almost instantly with presenting the information directly on a heads Giving unparalleled situational awareness. Allowing a flight of F-35s to effectively Perhaps most boldly of all, the F-35B is capable flight with a push of a button, using directional hidden within the plane's body. Making it possible to land like a helicopter ships of the US Marines. Fitting all these capabilities into a single Designing for stealth demands careful molding design of crucial features. Creating unavoidable trade-offs. There are a lot of misconceptions about stealth. The goal isn't to make an aircraft invisible, enemy detection for as long as possible. For bomber aircraft, it shrinks the range opening gaps in radar defenses and allowing For fighter aircraft it provides a critical you. To gain these advantages, we need to make whether the return signal is just background To do that we need to minimize the strength There are several mechanisms for a radar wave The most significant, and most obvious way as regular reflection, like a mirror. [1] Where the angle of reflection equals the We want to avoid large flat surfaces that Corner reflectors, where two surfaces set be avoided at all costs. Tailplanes, consisting of the vertical and to create a corner reflector. Allowing radar to bounce off both surfaces came. The best way to avoid this is to remove the maneuverability greatly. Instead we can replace both the horizontal seen on the F-117 Nighthawk. The v-tail can act as both a rudder and an the resultant force generated when the control We can actuate them in opposite directions providing yaw control as a vertical rudder Or we can deflect them in the same direction elevator would. This configuration is sometimes used for unique it to mount a single tiny jet engine on top straight through the v-tail. A private jet so tiny and lightweight that in emergencies. Having rudder and elevator controls linked Fighter jets like the F-35 and the F-22 need function of control surface area. The larger the elevator the larger the pitch If a control surface is working a double role, at the same time, it reduces the control authority. So, both planes also feature large elevators, corner reflections. We can see many more trade offs in design to fulfill both stealth and fighter requirements. Both the F-117 and B-2 have their engine air plane, which prevents ground based radar from to the receiver, and helps reduce infrared However, for a plane expected to make high situations, this isn't a design you would While performing a maneuver like this the which will lower performance right when performance Air intakes located underneath the aircraft, so twin intakes located on either side of The air intake has some clever aerodynamic This seemingly innocuous bump plays an important This is aeronautical engineering epitomized, has a purpose. Mounting engine intakes along the body of mounted engines avoid. As air travels along the length of the body, turbulent air called a boundary layer. If this air is allowed to enter the engine damage the engine. As the turbine rotates it will pass through fast free stream air on the other. This means the force on the turbine blade cyclical bending. A recipe for fatigue failure. Planes like the F-16 feature a boundary layer fuselage with a small gap, but this design drag. [2] a diverterless supersonic inlet. Essentially a large bump that creates a region away from the inlet, while also scattering The test flight demonstrated it could meet to the F-35. The final product reduces weight by 30% and Moving down the plane we can see other hints Long sharp edges are the enemy of stealth. Sharp edges cause radar waves to scatter in the length of a surface in the form of a traveling edge. The strength of that return signal can be The strength of the signal will depend on is to reduce the edge length with serration. You can see this technique very clearly on However, it's less obvious where it's at all the access hatches hidden around the gap on the aircraft has a serrated edge. This hatch opens to reveal a telescoping ladder aircraft. These open to reveal the landing gear. These are the internal weapons bays, essential hidden from view, and t hese smaller hatches Flares are effective decoys for heat seeking guided missiles. In the face of radar guided missile proliferation technology, a new decoy system was developed. This new technology is released from this When needed this access door opens and a transmitter the plane. It has 3 levels of countermeasures to protect First it actively jams missiles while they by emitting jamming signals which the onboard through the fiber optic tow line. If the radar manages to obtain a lock, it Disrupting the tracking algorithms guiding Finally, if all is lost and the missile is to simulate the aircraft's radar signature, [3] of the F-35, but more can be done to reduce You may notice that the color around these This is because the edges are treated with In the same way traveling waves scatter when scatter when traveling over a change in conductivity. The F-35 uses this to its advantage to scatter the return signal by spreading it out. The tape has a conductivity gradient, gradually radar waves to scatter at each interval. Slowly decreasing the intensity of the surface have released one large return if the tape The surface of the plane itself is composed In 2010 Lockheed Martin filed this patent that can absorb radar waves from 0.1 megahertz This is an incredibly wide range of frequencies, to air missiles like the advanced S-400 system The effect traveling surface waves have on You would imagine a cylinder would great way the strength of the return signal, but if and the wavelength is at least 1/10 the cylinders around the outside of the cylinder and travel [3] sharp edge breaking up the circular nose cone. Where the f-16 has a nearly perfect circular The largest hatch on the plane is strangely This hatch hides the powerful lift fan within. The air flow in and out of this lift fan needed The lift fan is essentially a tiny helicopter, and in doing so it creates a lower pressure into the aircraft at a 90 degree angle. This air has to travel over the hood to reach air to smoothly pass over it without creating the performance of the lift fan. This is why the inlet door is not serrated, in the flow. This hood alone went through several design by it. The demonstration X-35 aircraft had two doors but this was changed for the final aircraft This helps funnel air into the engine and where the F-35B does not take off vertically, thrust of the rear nozzle to take off on extremely The way this aircraft transforms to perform It's the closest thing to a transformer When the time comes, a clutch linking the to transfer 29,000 horsepower to the bevel-gear Spinning the contra-rotating lift fan. Simultaneously gears begin to rotate in the The mechanics of this nozzle are another wonder Called the three bearing swivel nozzle. It is composed of three airtight segments [4] We can change the shape of the nozzle These 3 pieces rotate together to smoothly easier to understand how it works by seeing Rotating the central piece can take the nozzle This position is used for short take-offs and lift. This mode is just as impressive as vertical Allowing the plane to operate from shorter Island, a ship just 258 meters long. Its minimum take-off distance decreases even A ramp that has been added to smaller amphibious Watching the F-35 take off over such short In this clip we can see the rear nozzle quickly the rear elevators, to adjust the pitch of For a vertical landing the final nozzle segment The first nozzle segment can rotate to move to ensure that the thrust doesn't move sideways As we saw when we rotate the segments individually to spin out of control. This mechanism also allows the F-35 to smoothly and from vertical flight to cruise when needed. There are additional control mechanisms to not go wrong. Bleed air from the main engine bypass is siphoned Providing thrust far away from the plane's There are also guide vanes located underneath This can adjust the outlet area to adjust the thrust of the lift fan from 5 degrees With computer assisted control of these control to its predecessor the AV-8B Harrier. Allowing the single engine of the F-35 to To do this the F-35s engine, the F-135, developed had to be incredibly powerful. The F-22 raptor is a twin engined fighter. Giving it plenty of excess power to pull off The F-35 only has one engine, and needs to a vertical landing. Where the F-22's engine can generate 156 191. The F-35's engine has a much larger fan and ratio of its F-22 counterpart. Providing the F-35 with a more efficient engine rate for higher thrust. However this does come with some drawbacks. Air that travels around the engine core completely out on the acceleration generated here. Reducing the exhaust velocity. This reduces the top speed of the plane. The max speed of the F-35 is 1.6 mach, and flight and supersonic flight, the F-22 can The F-35 was optimized for loiter time, not However, all that extra weight needed for The liftfan module weighs 1.2 tonnes, weight more fuel to carry, and to make matters worse for its variants. Making the lift fan as light as possible was battlefield. The fact it only weighs 1.2 tonnes is astounding. It contains two counter-rotating titanium Blisk meaning the blades and disk are all alternative of creating a disk and attaching This improves efficiency and eliminates a This is an astounding feat of manufacturing, The first stage blades are hollow to save Where the F-35B truly comes into its own however, all feeding into this. The heads up display incorporated into the Traditional heads up displays, like those in the cockpit. A panel which the pilot cannot see when scanning Situational awareness is everything in the it can to keep the pilot informed. Even giving them x-ray vision and night vision. Information from a suite of sensors around it is processed and displayed through a projector Inside this transparent faceted box underneath Those are not your typical windows. These windows are made from a notoriously One of the few materials that is both hard range of electromagnetic wavelengths. From the ultraviolet to infrared. However, the radar antenna hidden inside the of this electronics system. This is a scanned array radar that works very Phased array antennas have hundreds of tiny We can see metal plates set in rows in the The metal plates have slots cut into them, antenna. 1600 in total. This allows the phase array antenna to steer interference. If two antennas release two radar waves at troughs line up, it will result in constructive the radio wave. However if the radio waves are set 180 degrees it will result in complete destructive interference, This is how noise canceling earphones work. They listen to the background noise and then The phased array antenna uses this phenomenon from becoming a giant beacon leading enemies Traditional phase array antennas are passive. Meaning every antenna in the array is driven This would mean it can only point in one direction, side by side, and they split up, the passive to track both of them. However the F-35's phase antenna is an active these antennas is an individually driven transmitter Meaning the F-35 can track multiple targets The nose cones hiding these antennas need usually made from glass fiber composites as This transparency causes issues for the plane's this will reflect signals. This was a much bigger issue for mechanical to keep track of them. The phased array can point towards multiple and this is why it is pointed skywards. To bounce incoming radar to space. The phased array antenna also acts as the critical to the F-35s battle doctrine. The F-35 excels in the battlefield because Relaying information between it's squadron This is a huge amount of data to transfer and requires a high data transfer speed. However, communication comes with one glaring It announces your presence to anyone listening. It is vital that stealth planes can communicate array antenna facilitates this. The F-35 uses the latest data link system learned with the F-22. Allowing the F-35 to quickly share data securely This information is then sorted and presented in front of their eyes. Giving them unparalleled situational awareness. No need to communicate with their wingmates the planes communicate and feed that data look underneath the plane and see the location This is the true strength of the F-35B. It is a networked hivemind stealth fighter of the size of an aircraft carrier, and returning It's one of the most remarkable pieces of The F-35 has borrowed many lessons learned planes that we have not made documentaries have, their B-2 documentary is 20 minutes 3D renders. If you liked this video, you will definitely You can get access to them by signing up with You can sign up directly to Nebula for just An incredibly good price to help us build in the world. Or, you can use the incredible cost saving bundle and get both streaming services for Getting access to all of CuriosityStreams and ever growing catalog. Nebula is a game changing platform. We gathered all our favorite YouTube creators Funding our best ideas for documentaries like series, Real Sciences Becoming Human Series, film that I feature in in a scene alongside That would not be possible on YouTube. We also upload early and ad free on Nebula, and I's antics on Jet Lag the game. Along with exclusive behind the scenes videos interview with David Kirtley from Helion. We have many more documentary shoots planned and we will be releasing behind the scenes You get all this, while helping us build a the shackles of an algorithm driven platform. Signing up with the link in the description getting some amazing entertainment and education