Perhaps you've seen videos of how the planets in this cool helix. But not only are these motion through the universe - is way more This video of the planets moving in a corkscrew often presented in the most misleading sense planets orbiting the Sun is wrong - and that because it suggests that one frame of reference better than any others. Today I'm going frame chauvinism, and then talk about how which involves a surprising amount of awesome To start, I want you to imagine you're in ocean in an enclosed cabin. The portholes how fast you're moving. Or even that you're that Galileo Galilei described in his 1632 Systems to express what we now call Galilean no single best frame of reference from which no absolute rest-frame. All non-accelerating be taken as motionless as far as the laws So the view of the Solar System tracing this but you know what else is a valid frame of the Sun just like you were always taught. of years. OK, meme debunking achieved. Let's talk about how Earth is really moving, and Given this Galilean relativity of motion, is moving? Well, there may be no such thing but that doesn't mean all reference frames most useful for the question at hand. For the trajectory of a ball flying through the to take into account the fact that the surface due to its rotation. You can treat your patch calculation. If NASA wants to send a robot to Mars, it reference of Cape Canaveral, or even of the It uses an inertial frame of reference of the fact that the Sun is racing around the So if we want to answer the question "how the useful frames of reference. Let's start depictions of the motions of the planets - one about this depiction - and that's the idea the Sun is fixed relative to the planets. on the planets, causing the Sun to move. The best reference frame to describe motion - the center of mass. This is the real point . From the reference frame of the barycenter, in response to the outweighed gravitational barycenter is sometimes beneath the Sun's even vaguely lined up it can be quite a way So how does this affect Earth's orbit? The orbit. So this causes Earth's elliptical on the timescale of Jupiter and Saturn's And the pull of the other planets also causes around the Sun over 1000's of years. We connection to ice ages, when we discussed So that's Earth's motion within the solar as its motion through the galaxy. That galactic In the solar system, there are relatively for, and anyway, the gravity is massively Way's gravitational field isn't dominated summed gravitational fields of everything means we can learn an enormous amount about the motion of its constituents. The Solar system is moving at about 230km/s or take. That means a single orbit takes almost was on this side of the galaxy, dinosaurs extinct. To describe the Sun's motion through the We could choose the center of the galaxy - but Instead we tend to describe the Sun's complicated orbit - what we call the Local Standard of the Sun would have if it were executing a position. This allows us to describe how "not also a good physical motivation. Almost every that's nearly circular. That's because nudged into circular orbits due to friction experience. After a star forms in the same gets nudged off that orbit by a miriad of the Milky Way. Determining the speed of the sun with respect of new, young stars that formed recently and an average of how they're moving relative the sun is going a little bit faster than relative to the local standard of rest, the km/s. It's also drifting 'inwards' toward up and out of the disk at about 7 km/s. This has enormous consequences for the path that galaxy. For starters, this slow drift toward the galactic into Sagittarius A*. The Sun is trying to the galaxy, and currently it's moving closer mass is spread out through the entire galaxy in the solar system. That means simple elliptical traces out this pretty flower pattern over - the shape that a smaller wheel makes when The slight upward motion of the Sun is perhaps impactful. I already mentioned that we're 7 km/s. We are currently a few dozen lightyears know exactly where the center of the galactic the galaxy. With more matter below than above motion. In a few million years we'll have the disk center before our upwards motion in. We'll plummet through the disk, overshoot, of these graceful leaps roughly once every orbit. This vertical oscillation is more than just be directly tied to mass extinctions on the 60 million years ago. The center of the disk is a more dangerous density of stars. It puts us at a bigger risk with other massive objects that could destabilize impact the earth. But that's a story for This bouncing motion of the sun and other gives us a way to test different theories and has only been detected by its strong gravitational for what type of particle or object dark matter predictions for how dark matter interacts it interacts with itself almost not at all, out. But some dark matter candidates might in a force similar to friction and enabling galaxy, that would lead to a more massive spread out. So by weighing the disk we can models. And we can do that by looking at the the mass of the disk determines how far stars vertical speeds and maximum heights for nearby evidence of any extra density of dark matter dark matter models. Okay, now we know how the sun moves through as a whole? The plane of the planet's orbits by about 60 degrees. That's why we see this planets move through the galaxy. The orbits of the planets cause them to spend orbit, while they lag behind it during the the furthest ahead of the sun in September, for half the year Earth is moving in the same their velocities add together, with the maximum the year we're moving backwards relative galactic motion is the slowest. This change in Earth's galactic speed also - dark matter models. If dark matter is some the Earth as we move through the galaxy. And should sweep through, in the same way that you drive. Dark matter experiments should In fact, physicists at the DAMA experiment this signal though that's still disputed- able to reproduce it yet. Okay, just one more bone to pick about this is almost face-on compared to our Sun's But due to conservation of angular momentum, with the Sun's orbit. After a quarter of be edge-on - the solar system will be like the sun's orbit. We now have a picture of how the Solar system we move through the universe as a whole? The of the masses around it. We're racing towards kilometers per second, while our entire local other little galaxies around us - are being overdensity in the clustering of galaxies it becomes really tricky to define a single relative velocity. Except we do have one last recourse - a reference of the universe. The reference frame of the radio-wavelength light that was emitted by before the first stars were born. Those hydrogen but they had an average velocity. If you were at the average velocity of those atoms, then the same in all directions. However if you hitting you from ahead would be a bit more from behind it would be less energetic, or Well, those atoms are mostly in stars now, The cosmic microwave background defines a our reference frame compared to it. It turns relative to the cosmic rest frame - we've by vast overdensities of galaxies hundreds So that is how you are currently moving through but the reference frame of your own body. that shifts to a rolling wheel as it dips flower petals around the Milky Way, which total of our wheeling dance across space time. In our last episode we explored the possibility that life could be based on silicon rather than carbon. I concluded that discussion on the topic in the comments. Appletank8 suggests exploring whether there's that can break up SiO2, noting that if even then nothing else will either. This is an excellent insight, and is one of the key reasons why silicon-based life may well be impossible. breaking the silicon dioxide molecule. That pathway may really be a dead end. Silica may easily locked out of circulation for any evolutionarily-plausible which is relatively easily broken to get the are novel ways to release the silicon from of yet - but there's no question that the and so it will out-compete silicon in most FatherDragonKal asks why not Boron or Nitrogen that boron and nitrogen don't form long can't form scaffolding structures for a long 1-D chains with itself, but can't append covalent bonds. Carbon and silicon can form other atoms, but of these only carbon has for life - all the stuff we talked about in Wynntari asks whether we've considered answer is yes, but there's a reason we tend fiction is full of ideas, from sentient oceans in Solaris to nuclear life on neutron stars in Robert Forward's Dragon's Egg. But scientists have also tried to come up with a non-chemical basis for life. Like or magnetic monopoles on cosmic strings inside suspended in plasma. But everything I've - all of it seems way harder than good ol' chemical, and preferably carbon based life. You know what, let me tell you what I really think about this - The apparent fine tuning of this universe strongly suggests to me that there's a multiverse of universes are uninhabitable. We naturally qualities to make at least one form of life to be tuned so finely that multiple forms So yeah, other forms of life exist out there universes away. Many, many people noticed that the molecule TNT. And, as Benedictul points out, these the misinformation spread by AC/DC - accadacca impressive that there are so many of you that can immediately distinguish these molecules at a glance. As you can tell, I'm not in try to memorize more chemical structures for the future.