A Student Drank 2 Liters Fiber Supplement This Is What Happened To His Intestines. CJ is a 22 year old man, presenting to the constipation. He tells the admitting nurse that it was only biggest dump of his life. He had been building up, since he hadn't 3 weeks. You see, CJ was a student who was obsessed He was studying nutrition and after reading All of his health problems like allergies, needed to be cleansed. He read online that humans should get 25 to Americans only average about 15 grams daily. He thought about every single day of his life He liked cereals and grains and fruit, and he thought. He remembered all those times in his life, both in timing and in feeling, on the way If there's skid marks in the toilet, then all of my health problems, he thought. CJ eventually came to his own conclusion that 30 grams of fiber, he needed to make up for He went to the pharmacy and bought large tubs At first, he tried a few spoonfuls mixed in His movements were regular and consistent. He could feel the cleanse happening. One day, he told himself he was ready. He prepped his body and mixed at least 30 of water. He watched it congeal in to a thick jelly Immediately after finishing 2 liters of fiber He had trouble drinking it because the fiber chew it to swallow it. As the hours passed, CJ's stomach kept expanding. He felt full and didn't need to eat dinner. But then he realized the fiber supplement peanut butter and fiber supplement jelly sandwiches colon possible. Only then can my body absorb the best and But the feeling wasn't good. At first he felt a little burning at the top If the fiber jelly can be diluted with some he thought as he went to bed, on an ever expanding In the morning, CJ still could feel the fiber But from everything he gathered in his online be. It needs time to scrub out years worth of Eating breakfast then lunch, and then having it all down to wash in to his intestines. But as the days passed, he noticed he was He felt more and more bloated, and nauseous He realized that it had been days since he He tried convincing himself that it was the Until 10 days later. CJ couldn't eat anymore. He couldn't drink anymore. All he could feel was his abdomen burning. To cope with the pain he kept saying it needed But finally the hurt became too strong. He could feel a giant lump in his abdomen little bit on it, a sour taste would flood he could feel his stomach cramp and shake. He would sit on the toilet until he could nothing would move. He could feel a burning at the base of his The pain became too unbearable and he realized and he's brought to the emergency room, At examination, doctors found that CJ was He's breathing, he's conscious and responsive His stomach was swollen. When doctors asked CJ if he had eaten anything, been cleansing his colon. He told them about some laxatives that he bowel movements. But then they asked him if he knew why he He told them about the 2 liters of fiber supplement and psyllium husk jelly sandwiches he ate And this gives doctors some clues as to what Psyllium is made from the husks of plant seeds. It's made of hemicellulose, which is fiber Actually, cellulose found in plants is long Vegetable fibers generally don't taste sweet to sugar, but in certain animal stomachs, Instead in humans, this becomes what we know stool, and helps things more easily pass through you know about when it comes to eating enough In this small science experiment, I put psyllium The more psyllium I put in, the thicker the It expands by absorbing water in. Human intestines absorb nutrients from food. You chew the food to crush it up. Your stomach mashes it up a little more before are absorbed in to your liver for processing. The further down the food goes along the intestines, it. If the large intestines are given enough time dry and hard, causing constipation. But if fiber is present, then it puts more Psyllium helps to hold on, not only pumping as it moves things along, for nice smooth Moving things faster, reduces the time for So then there is no more dry stool. Fibers also help stimulate gut bacteria growth All of this, giving almost only benefits to If psyllium is mixed without enough water, CJ told the doctors that when he took 2 liters drink it, but he had to chew it because it You see, when psyllium is mixed with some That's the way it's supposed to work, But the problem is, when it becomes like a cause it to dissolve or break down. Even squeezing it with your hands, might not And because the GI tract isn't a rigid solid in the stomach and in the intestines, and block all movement through. And because the psyllium expands and doesn't can cause an impaction. Even if the stomach and the intestines are won't "cut it up." Adding more water isn't going to push it that it's in, and it keeps expanding. If it stays there, not only will nothing pass it can stretch the walls of the stomach and And because the gastrointestinal tract is disrupting blood flow can cause parts of it In the emergency room, doctors do a CT scan dilated, while others were collapsed. All of this suggesting that a high grade obstruction for surgery. Surgeons make small cuts and send scopes in They find the part of his intestines that Because psyllium isn't hard like a walnut, able to cut up the blockage gently to break The manipulation and fragmentation, were enough moving along, as they sent CJ in to the recovery bowel movement hes ever had in his life. A Mild dose of an additional laxative was sure to move things along as he was moved Psyllium fiber is generally regarded as a It's been shown in clinical trials and meta cholesterol and help with heart disease risk Hyper meaning high. Cholesterol referring to a waxy fat like substance And Emia meaning presence in blood. High cholesterol presence in blood. Keep in mind, if you don't have hypercholesterolemia, than if you do, so taking a small amount of even want to take it at all, is the best way So let me be clear. Some psyllium as recommended by your physician first place, is OK so long as you follow the 5 grams, 10 grams a day should be ok. 500 And thinking that you're cleansing your Probably not ok. I may or may not have blocked my own intestines only on CJ's experience, but my own. It really hurts and if it can fix itself, Mix it with lots of water, before you take If you don't, you're gonna block your surgery, that you didn't need to have, just If you'd like to see more about how psyllium posted to my second channel Heme Review, link After learning a lesson about fiber supplement, and insomnia probably couldn't be fixed was able to make a full recovery. Thanks so much for watching. Take care of yourself. And be well.