Today, I'll show you how you can use multiple criteria. For example, you need to and is also in the Productivity division, so and the technique I'll show you can be used on two for two different things in the same column. salaries of people who are either in Finance or the tutorial by also learning how you can tweak that you need so you don't return all those Okay, so here's our data set. We have so we have Utility, Productivity, and the working in those divisions, the department data is formatted as an official Excel What I want to do is this: I want to work in the Productivity division and they're part of the Finance department. How can Let's get started with FILTER. The &quot;array&quot; is let's just return everything just to and then I'm going to show you how Next is the &quot;include&quot; argument. Well, we want to division, so I'm going to select the data in the &quot;Productivity&quot;. Now, we're not done because we department. But before I move on to that, let's works so far, and it does. We're only returning Okay, so far so good. Let's now include the the next argument and have the next &quot;include&quot;? if-empty optional argument. This is something you if it doesn't find anything. So, for example, if I can just put in two quotation marks which means So, to be able to solve this, I have to you do that is like this: you're going and because we're going with an &quot;AND&quot; condition, which checks whether the department is Finance. hover over &quot;Department&quot;, check whether this Now you're probably wondering: why am I multiplying these with one another? this so we can see what is being returned, I don't need to use the F9 key to debug this. Notice what we get: we have FALSE, TRUE, take a look at our &quot;Division&quot; column. The and so on. Is cell A2 equal to &quot;Productivity&quot;? that's why we return TRUE. The same type of we're checking whether Department equals Finance. is equal Finance, and then we have FALSE and then with one another is that the moment you perform you change these to numbers. So, a TRUE becomes you get. And here, if I hover over this, we can a zero in the first two cases? Because this was is zero. Here we have TRUE multiplied by FALSE multiplied with TRUE, so 1 multiplied by 1, we get the &quot;include&quot; argument returns everything that's result. You can, of course, build on this to we only wanted to include those that have a multiply this with our next check, which is yearly bracket. Press enter, and that's it. Okay, Now, I have a question for you. What if I didn't argument? So, either division is Productivity or tweak this formula? All we need to do is change Finance or Productivity. They can, of course, also this time we're adding ones and zeros with values. This also gives us our TRUE/FALSE we get ones and twos and zeros. So, the twos are the &quot;include&quot; argument returns all the non-zero Now, how do we go about returning only the columns the Name column and the Yearly Salary column back, columns. In a previous video, I've shown a trick then Microsoft has introduced a great new function CHOOSECOLS. This gives us the ability to choose only going to be the result of this function, which back? The second column and the fourth columns. I want 4. Close bracket, press Enter, and now What if we wanted to sort this by salary in we can use here is the SORT function. The array to the end and then decide what our &quot;sort index&quot; that's the second column, and the &quot;sort order&quot; I the bracket, press Enter, and I have my names I have a challenge for you. Let's see if you want to return the data where division is either the same column. How can I do that? Let's see if FILTER function. Array is what we want returned, where this equals &quot;Game&quot;. And remember, we said if right? So, I'm going to continue with a plus and &quot;Utility&quot;, is this correct? Will I get the right the problem with this formula? I'm missing the you have more than one criteria in the &quot;include&quot; whenever it's multiple criteria, remember to put We have either &quot;Utility&quot; or &quot;Game&quot;. Ah, one more I wanted to only include the results where salary this with the AND condition, right? I can go here, 80,000. You can also reference the You're going to close bracket, press Enter. This 45,000 here. What's the problem? The problem and then we're going to multiply the result with inside their own brackets, and now check this earns more than 80,000. Let me know how tutorial helps because using the FILTER function received from our community. And I have to say, I hope you found this helpful. If you did, give to this channel. If not, do consider subscribing,