Hello Health Champions! Today, I want to talk your heart. And just to get the basics of that is. First of all, in order for us to restore we're going to need certain raw materials. And those raw materials are going to have including essential fatty acids, essential amino The tissue that we're talking about, that's breaking down and wearing out cells, and we body that you have today is 90% different. Ninety we need these quality raw materials to replace the we also need clean fuel. Everything we need some fuel to make energy from, and we need damage along the way while we're trying to restore And then, more than anything, we need to stop that created the damage in the first place, stop oxidative stress, and stop toxins. are not part of whole food--they're preservatives, chemicals in our environment, in our cleaning and so forth. The more we can clean that up, And then we add in the things that most people plants and herbs that have certain properties or antifungal, which can help restore some balance But we don't start there. We start with providing Now, these foods are in no particular order, but omega-3 fatty acids, and that would be fish such as well, mostly fatty fish, and another kind would but larger fish are going to contain more they're higher in the food chain, and they've And the super important component that we that become part of the cell membranes. Remember, are healthier, so we need healthy components for video is that virtually every food is good for we need to understand the factors These fatty acids are generally going to help you them. So, that's a green plus there--that's to contain very, very few anti-nutrients, unlike to avoid being eaten. We're going to talk a a compound called histamine, which is a chemical serves many different functions, which we'll and we can also get too much of this histamine, sensitivity, you could basically develop allergy So, what is histamine? Well, it's a very so it uses it on purpose. But we can people who have allergic reactions, are having an excessive reaction, they're having to it. But histamine is also a signal for the when you make your stomach acid. It's also function. So, it's a normal compound and it's There are several sources of this, of course, it--it floats around in little white blood cells have other bacteria in the body, and bacteria on we can also get histamine as part of spoiling histamine. So sometimes just having leftovers is the fresh food in this regard. But also when we for example, or aging wine, then they can develop fermentation, something that for the most part is we're making bacteria that can be good for us, And another source of histamine if you have an abundance of the then you can already be kind of sensitized Now, the next group of high omega-3 foods like flaxseed, chia seeds, and walnuts. Flax and outside of these three, there's not really another plants is called ALA, or alpha-linolenic acid. in plants, we start off with this alpha-linolenic acid because the body cannot make it, so we body can make EPA, and then it can convert that product that the body is looking for. By eating its final form, and because the body can make it, However, the conversion from ALA to EPA is best source. It's usually not sufficient to only 1% of this ALA may end up becoming DHA, which the DHA more essential, even though classically But just like the other EPAs, because it is controlling, and balancing inflammation. And one eat, whether it can become the final version of omega-6s, so that we don't get these sky-high see. So, simply by eating some more of this, Now, those are the positive aspects of these because they contain phytates, which are for some people. And in doing that, of course, simple to always say, "Oh, omega-3 foods reduce And also, this phytate, this anti-nutrient, if it's in the food that you eat it with, these foods--they're great--they're full of fiber but the phytates in that food will bind to and we just flush them out. So, it's going to a certain percentage. But it's only blocking at the time, so it's not like this is Another omega-3 food is actually grass-fed meat, but it is very, very nutrient-dense. It has a and if it's grass-fed, it's also going basically a 1:1 ratio, if that animal was and ate the things that were innate to it. of omega-3s, it still helps to balance those it doesn't have any of these But meat, especially if it's aged a which in some people can again cause Another source of omega-3 I want to mention is source of these fatty acids that we have that's it has both the EPA and DHA in plenty, and it's very rich in both of these vitamins. It that we have to convert into something But cod liver oil can still have some of this it on a regular basis, it is so potent, it is develop toxicity. So, if you're eating this on much you can tolerate, and measure your levels Another very healing food is high-sulfur foods, We have things like garlic and onions, foods support vascular health, they help reduce body in its detox processes in the liver. These and methionine, and they contain sulfur, and they which is the body's number one antioxidant. and that it manufactures internally, but But these high-sulfur foods can also cause with severe bloating. And this is if you have degrade and break down these sulfur compounds, small intestine, which is called small intestine a bunch of bacteria in the small intestine, but an overgrowth of these bacteria. Then, these something called hydrogen sulfide, and you get I know what you're saying now--why does it have good and bad? What is there left to eat? What out? One of my favorite ways is to go back what did they eat? What are our ancestral foods? don't want to treat paleo like a religion and but I think it's a great benchmark. It's a And the question then is, how did our ancestors Because we've eaten a wide variety of animal and phytates and polyphenols, lectins, sulfur, Along the way, humans have learned to we increase histamines. But also, fish So, how did our ancestors deal with this? How complicated for us? The answer is that these extremely beneficial. But they're not beneficial You have bacteria that produce some of these some of these compounds. So, our ancestors had a their bacterial flora. But due to our modern have small intestine bacterial overgrowth--we're intestine, but because of imbalances, Another very common imbalance is H. pylori. Most either we have none or we have too much. When we in the gut, we create more leaky gut, and plus all of the metabolic waste and toxins from gut membrane and get into the bloodstream, Another thing that can be very beneficial such as beets, spinach, and pomegranates. are just a few examples. These nitrates help which is another signaling In order for your body to vasodilate, it needs vessel becomes bigger, it relaxes so that if you have pain in the chest area, called are too constricted. By helping the body we can relax the blood vessels and But on the downside, beets and spinach and this can cause digestive upsets, but kidney stones. And then, pomegranates have Anytime you talk about nitrates, sodium nitrate or sodium nitrite, which is you want that meat, that ham, and bacon is what maintains that color and flavor. with cancer, seeing it as a bad preservative. Most of sodium nitrate, is that when you put it in and you combine that with high heat, like you create something called nitrosamines. These itself is not a carcinogen; the vast majority of People also ask, well, if sodium nitrate about vegetables? Can we grill vegetables? first of all, there are fewer amines in you could make some nitrosamines from vegetables are going to offset that effect. It's really just such as hot dogs that have sodium nitrate, Next, we have foods with healthy fat in them. body if it is a healthy fat, if it's One such fat is found in avocados. is monounsaturated, just like olive avocados can contain some histamines, Olives are another source of monounsaturated fats. so they don't have many of the anti-nutrients or turn them into extra virgin olive which are an excellent source of the gut. But some people can react to these Even though olive oil and monounsaturated fats they're not as stable as saturated fat. or if we heat it too much, or don't store that can produce inflammation in the body. Almonds are another source of healthy fats. They but almonds are also full of oxalates and start looking for flour substitutes, they may clock. Many people can develop sensitivities to you're going low carb and eating a lot of almonds, Pastured eggs are another great source of pastured eggs. If you get cheap, mass-produced ratio of 20:1, whereas pastured eggs are closer the animals. If they are raised the way they're then you're going to get healthy industrialized products and chemicals, Eggs are incredibly nutrient-dense. I've into more detail, but one of the most important and it serves many different functions in liver, and overall health. However, as with Next, we have organ meats, which include liver, treasured parts of the animal, and we gave it's completely turned around, and virtually unfortunate because organ meats are incredibly minerals like zinc, and an essential co-factor Because organ meats are not plants, they're contain histamines. Another type of organ meat When cod liver is used to make cod liver oil, it's EPA, and DHA. You typically buy cod liver pate it's often too much for one person to eat at once. it's going to taste and smell extremely it's very neutral in flavor with no bad odor. because it's so high in EPA and DHA that Cod liver pate is also very high in vitamins you can develop toxicity if you consume on the container and figure out how much you want to eat every day, or you'll Another category of food that's very high in oxidative stress. Every time we use oxygen is unavoidable. But if we have the they can offset and neutralize are one such food, very high in antioxidants. which help reduce oxidative stress blueberries contain oxalates, so if you're very Another popular antioxidant food is chocolate benefits come not from the sugar in chocolate, the darkest chocolate you can or make a drink from substitute. Cacao contains an antioxidant called which many people are deficient in. It helps health, just like blueberries. But again, Green tea is another popular antioxidant food, containing catechins that have numerous supports vascular health. On the downside, Tomatoes are another antioxidant-rich food. lycopene, is often emphasized for its benefits. balance cholesterol. But tomatoes also contain the nightshade family, and lectins are sticky Now, why is it so complicated? I don't want because they are mostly good. The compounds in imbalances in our bodies. It's not that be bad for some people if consumed in excess or of balance, and the reason we don't tolerate world. We've changed the world more in the last One of the biggest changes that I talk about processed foods, sugar, and seed oils, environment in the body, leading to low-grade that humans have never faced before--it additives, and chemicals in cleaning products. We used to have kids playing in the dirt, getting learned to interact with and develop a healthy we've developed germophobia. Everything has to be chemicals, adding to our toxic burden while wiping The next big thing we need to consider bacteria in the gut. These bacteria process have the final say in what we absorb or excrete. off the bad bacteria causing the infection, we had multiple courses of antibiotics, many of but they may be completely extinct. Other factors, like stress and the recent for instance, is a virus that creates Fiber-rich foods can also be beneficial to gut for some people. If someone doesn't tolerate fiber of pathogenic bacteria, and fiber feeds those earlier, chia and flaxseeds, are also very high omega-6s and bind to cholesterol, preventing But again, chia and flaxseeds contain phytates, digestive upset in some people. So, while they Another popular food is sweet high in fiber and nutrient-dense. as they're a tuber and low in anti-nutrients. they don't have many of the traditional But some people say sweet potatoes help regulate to ask, compared to what? Compared to steak and potatoes are still very high in carbohydrates, they will raise your blood sugar--though not as are many alternatives that will There is also a category of foods fermentable oligosaccharides, and polyols. These are short-chain carbohydrates overgrowth of these bacteria, eating Another type of food important for heart health fruits like lemons and oranges support in anti-nutrients, as fruits are generally lower foods. But the issue with fruit is its sugar stick with lemons. I use a lot of lemon juice, whereas oranges have a higher sugar content. If you probably want to avoid oranges and stick with orange occasionally isn't going to hurt you. from orange juice, which is a processed Bell peppers also contain but they are part of the nightshade family are sensitive to lectins in these Fermented foods are another category are preserved with bacteria, which create an and help populate your gut with beneficial made from cabbage, and its Asian counterpart, and yogurt (fermented dairy), miso and fermented vegetables like pickles, beets, and not just pickled or brined. These foods contain You want to feed probiotics with consume. Prebiotic foods include garlic, these are also part of the FODMAP family, on your gut balance, these foods may Other good prebiotics include asparagus, chicory support gut health, but they can also aggravate everything we've talked about but only if you tolerate it. If you constipation, rashes, or sneezing, then these they may be aggravating your system. However, the long-term solution is not to simply ideally, you need a wide variety of them out how to become more tolerant of gut flora to process and degrade them healthily. So, the big question is, how do we approach allows us to tolerate foods that are good for slowly. Pay attention to which foods you do monitor and notice if anything changes or worsens. Introduce foods one at a time, introduce them that's great--continue, and introduce But the key is to cut out all the processed junk can't keep eating processed foods, sugar, soda, to heal. So, that's the prerequisite--first, If you introduce something and feel worse, stop. or it was too much. Try again with If you figure out this process and improve, and live well. But if you try several rounds of need help. You could find a local functional but more importantly, you want to start on. If you're not resolving the issue through I believe the place to start is with blood work and comprehensive panels--not just individual fits together--I highly recommend a blood work can go through it at your own pace. You'll learn blood work. Because chances are, if you go much about blood work except where the flags In addition to the course, we have do consultations for you. I recommend course so you can learn as much as it will make so much more sense to you--you'll have A lot of people will experience tremendous more and more tough cases these days. What used cases, you need to gather more data, The next big thing we're testing is the can also get a human DNA test to see your genetic acid test to measure your omega-3 to omega-6 Whatever you decide, I want you to realize time. If you have a simple case, you of months just by eating better. But if you're or two. Don't be surprised, but I encourage Ultimately, what other choice do we have? telehealth team to develop a guided program I'll provide some links below for If you enjoyed this video, you'll love master your health by understanding how the hit that bell, and turn on all notifications