California is an island--not literally, the state to the same pressures and influences Towering mountains separate the bulk of the largest desert places hundreds of miles of it and the more populated states farther east. Conversely, the largest, richest, and most the coast--San Diego, Los Angeles, and San This is no coincidence. Granted statehood in 1850, California began by ocean. It did not border any other state--the next-nearest The interior was considered hostile, dangerous roads, so steamships would leave from the drop off passengers in Panama. There, travelers would cross the country by where they'd wait for another steamship or forty day trip, but incredibly, the fastest other. This disconnect meant California initially that until telegraph lines spanned the country the fastest way to even get information from It wasn't until the transcontinental railroad reliably connected to the rest of the country decades to define its identity in isolation. This legacy persists--the disconnect exhibits sum. For example, most of the rest of the country for cheap and efficient transport of the resource California's different--with those towering it from the east, the economics never worked Therefore, California largely buys crude oil tanker ships, and refines it locally, which--in regulations--explains the higher prices typically California even has a small degree of disconnect the only state that requires all travelers when driving in. It's not immigration, per se--rather an species--but the point is not that these state from the rest. More so, the fact that California is able in the rest of the continent with any degree disconnected it is. The only state to have a similarly extensive made up of literal islands. But the reason California can be so isolated rich. The state's center, if defined by wealth It'd be easy to assume the area's riches counterpoint. Santa Clara, San Mateo, and San Francisco--the Silicon Valley--have a collective GDP of This is closest to that of Poland--the 21st people. The uninitiated might assume that San Francisco the same. Sure, San Francisco has a big tech scene, across the towns and cities to the south of in Cupertino, Netflix is in Los Gatos. What this means is that these titans of tech, are headquartered in some rather small cities--82,000, Therefore, they're regulated by tiny, hyper-competitive In fact, San Francisco--the city you know San Francisco bay area. San Jose has 983,000 residents to San Francisco's into a huge number of smaller cities and towns, Los Angeles County, encompassing most, but of 88 different cities, plus unincorporated Across both of the state's largest urbanized as dozens, even hundreds, leaving few comprehensive, Zoomed in, considering the odd relationship or zoomed out, considering the state's historical as unique a state there is. Uniqueness has brought benefits, but uniqueness sometimes convoluted, means of solving them. Take homelessness. This is a hot-button, highly-visible issue solutions, so it's easy for conversations A quick look at the statistics, however, makes homelessness problem is uniquely bad. Of the 582,462 people experiencing homelessness That's nearly 30% of the nation's total, York, and some 150,000 more than Florida--the populations. But California's the most populous state at a per resident rate. And here too, California outpaces the rest, 10,000. More troubling still, despite the highest only getting worse. From 2020 to 2022, while 23 states saw decreases rose by another six percent--ten thousand So it's a big, bad, and worsening problem, from small city halls all the way to Sacramento, soon. While no state has figured out how to solve providing stable shelters and housing programs It tracks, then, that California has comparatively state has instead opted to prioritize permanent and incredibly slow to build. This has left more and more out in the relative In 2022, two thirds of California's homeless tents, cars, campers, or on the streets, far turn things around. Now, the state government has watched this of solutions while throwing millions upon Yet, the state still has the largest, most has little in the way of solutions, or even Much of this is the function of a simple reality little control over: it's really hard to The difficulty in finding housing extends of a housing crisis. But this isn't because of a faltering economy, California year in year out ranks as one of and yet, in one analysis of 2019 numbers, to 48th. Rather than unemployment or low-paying jobs, so many so perilously close to losing a home--all Bizarrely, the explanation could be that the good. Take this simple metric: the jobs-housing in relation to how many units of housing are For local employment to remain healthy without long-time residents, the US EPA considers for an urban area. In the last decade, popular cities clearly of this range. Phoenix's metro area sits at 1.34; Seattle's--1.43; But California has blown the roof off this 2, Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario has reached ratio of new jobs per new unit of housing Of course, an unrelenting economy only accounts The denominator is just as responsible for the outcome of a concept a bit more nebulous: Of all the floating, intangible assumptions to look like--the long sunny days and pleasant jobs, beaches, and open space--it's the a pool that's proved the most important, controversial. And it's this core tenet that's causing Californians, after all, desperately want willing to fight for it. Take Atherton--a small Silicon Valley town In 2022, to keep up with state mandates on the process of rezoning one single-family The project was quickly axed. It wasn't a lack of money or a lack of municipal influential, powerful executives and even and pressured the city out of it. To them, the project would hurt their property of the community, and create more traffic. So the project, and its 16 units of desperately city planners back to the drawing board. While the characters might not be as high all the time, all over the state. Here, the city government decided to designate was odd, but conveniently allowed it to forgo Here, in 2019 construction on a 154-bed shelter the City of Los Angeles to halt construction. Here, residents of San Francisco's Embarcadero a 200-bed shelter in the neighborhood. And across the larger Bay Area, those who California of old have created their own organizations, and Palo Alto for Sensible Zoning to name This isn't just a fringe--more and more, elections. All of this is, after all, in the local interest: the problem over to the next, clearly a constituency damage their property values. The state has the money and the interest in housing shortages, but it can only do so much the most minor of zoning changes and the smallest So, unexceptional problems have grown to exceptional simply building more housing gets rejected, projects to systematically convert motels and filing lawsuits against its own cities. And all of this absurd mess is confined to There are, of course, fires. There's also too much water in some places, There's spats between who deserves Colorado local level. There's traffic, there's aging infrastructure, middle-class workers following them. There's a lot of bickering and a lot to Clearly, problems have accumulated in California they aren't getting solved. Something seems fundamentally wrong with the maybe California should just be a country. It sounds ludicrous, right? Of course California can't become a country. It would never happen. Congress would never allow it. But perhaps the point worth focusing on is the argument. After all, California wouldn't be out of It would rank 59th in physical size, between Canada and Poland; and 5th in GDP, between above-average on all major metrics of scale. One of the common refrains against secession not survive economically on their own. For example, according to the UK government, receives about $1.32 back--the country would upon full independence. This fact undergirds some of the strongest matter. But California's different. In 2019, before the pandemic skewed the data, spending for every dollar it sent the Federal This put the state, each year, in a small what they gave, while others, like Mississippi, received more than two dollars back for every Of course, this is by design--the US' progressive from the wealthy and give disproportionately perspective, many wonder why they're sending thousands of miles away. And adding to that, California doesn't even get spent. Given the unequal distribution of electoral in Wyoming has the voting power of about 3.7 of two senators per state, regardless of population, Again, the system was purposefully designed of smaller states, but from California's stick. Feeling underrepresented by Washington, California more like a nation, passing sweeping, powerful can't or won't. For example, it's long had a ban on assault-rifles, is attempting to pass; it's announced a to other bans passed by countries; it's focused on educating detainees of their rights might characterize as abusive Federal authorities; having signed a joint environmental accord In many ways, fixing perceived Federal shortcomings politics, but unsurprisingly, this dynamic when Federal power sways towards the right. There certainly is not the political will close--but if there was one big perceived knock-down of their assault-rifle ban or a that political will accumulating quickly. But it's still a largely moot point because by creating a bigger problem. As much as California might be held back by to its laws, the state is massively buoyed the world. Removing itself from the US would have dire any gain. Perhaps the closest equivalent is Brexit--much the European Union was taking the country's now, just a few years on, with mounting issues decisively towards regret: most agree that economy was not the right move. Public opinion on Californian independence been enough fringe movements seeking secession political polling, reliably demonstrating and 32% of respondents were for Californian In fact, in one poll run by a Stanford affiliated as 36% for and just 40% against, almost even, is not nearly in support of the extreme, unprecedented disconnect with Washington has pushed the We all know pragmatically that secession will but partition could. The underlying idea is the same--that California's The solution is just less extreme: split it This has been proposed, legitimately, over push was led by billionaire investor Tim Draper He proposed splitting the state into three California, and California, attempting to evenly across the three. The central argument was that the state government the huge difference in size between the two, touch with the state government given the to reduce the size of the state and also, more powerful Federal representation to the This argument was persuasive enough to generate to put the question on the ballot but, before Supreme Court on constitutional grounds. Even so, it probably wouldn't have passed--polling even if the state did vote for it, it'd such a split, and the Federal government would Democrats would balk at the fact that it would would balk at the four additional left-leaning would ask whether it'd be too dangerous So the big solutions aren't reasonable and Perhaps the answer is that California is just There is no state, region, or other national and going down the list, there aren't really Texas is number two, but it's run by small-government problems is limited. New York is number three, but nearly all of area, meaning its structure is far simpler. You then have England, but it acts as a nation but China isn't a democratic state; then bent; then Shandong and Zhejiang, also China; also China; then finally Pennsylvania. With its comparatively conservative, smaller-government California, but it's the closest so far considering and its government is more open to intervention So that's to say, California is not only to the world: truly nobody is trying to manage nation-status. It has unique problems, it feels disconnected nation, and yet it feels like it needs to This should sound familiar, because in 1776, independence from Britain citing their unique nation-scale power, and an inkling that just What happened next was America. And what happened after that was American fundamentally and dramatically unique. This is, in many ways, true. There just aren't places that mirror the but this feeling undergirds perhaps the most a belief that, as a unique place, the US needs There is a systematic rejection of solutions equivalents out of a belief that they're unique or the uniqueness itself. So that means that California is the exception The state is exceptional, it is fundamentally an analogous idea of Californian exceptionalism a belief that they too require unique solutions. After all, California's supposed to be a free of persecution, an idyllic antithesis America. The exception to the exception is not the California is like the hyper-distilled version the same reasons as the nation itself, just It's no wonder that the state centered on on rejecting norms might stray from the most It's also no wonder that, in the same way international media, a source of political US. At the end of the day, Californian politicians might be right and the state might be the flawed--but it's near-impossible to sift objectively analyze this. However, it's reasonably clear that Californian a tougher job to do, navigating a truly singular Decisions are made without precedent, and failures seem obvious. So the question of how to solve California's solve America's problems: should it keep with exceptionalism, or can unexceptional even when they happen in exceptional places. Last year, in a video about carbon offsets, program which was supposed to be an elegant propped up ineffective carbon offsets and This is a classic story in the carbon offsetting but regularly fails in practice. That's because carbon offsets are really why I'm so excited to have Wren as a sponsor. I didn't trust Wren at first--nobody should at first as the industry is ripe with scams--but and were insistent they had found solutions I got on a call with them and they walked I left impressed--I did my absolute best for how they vet their projects and ensure For example, even the most highly vetted carbon into practice, so they counter this by never only for their portfolio of projects, designed falls through, the others are there to pull This also means they can use some of the money mineral weathering, hoping that it can develop future. I really get the sense that Wren is the real people passionate about providing an easy that's why I decided to promote them over asked. I use Wren for both my personal and business everything possible to make sure my money So, if you want to do the same, click the and the first hundred to do so will get their Wren for free.