Amsterdam, July of 2021, on the banks A crowd of people Some of them shed tears. They came from all over the Netherlands to one of the country's famous figures, The star journalist of Dutch television, shot dead in the street Peter de Vries was 64 years old, an investigative journalist For more than 30 years, he kept Dutch viewers with his hard hitting investigations. [Dutch spoken audio] For several months, following an ultra violent mafia There was a price on his head, His murder took place It's 7 p.m., leaves the studio He goes home. He doesn't know Peter is shot five times at close range. [Dutch spoken audio] It's really shocking. Horrible that something can happen. Then you're back from work [Dutch spoken audio] This murder is not a unique case. This is the latest coordinated by drug traffickers, a phenomenon that is now threatening It seems hard to believe, but the Netherlands is now the new playground of drug cartels. In less than ten years, the Netherlands and Belgium have become This is because the two largest ports Rotterdam and Antwerp. Thousands of ships from all over the world It's now estimated that consumed in Europe For customs officers, It's impossible to check all the loads. Paul Meyer was one of the players He agreed to reveal This is a boat from South America. Then you know Therefore, you need people here Somebody puts the containers out, simple. It's not difficult. In the ports, fear has set in. The dockers are constantly harassed They try to have your name. When you don't cooperate with them, they threaten to do something This traffic gave birth to a new mafia led by Dutch people, the Mocro Maffia. Powerfully armed, They do not hesitate to use torture, [Dutch spoken audio] These drug traffickers feel invincible. Attacks on journalists, Even the Dutch prime minister A terrifying prospect I'm protected It's a special unit of them, I'm not allowed to say anything This cocaine trafficking The authorities are concerned. Are Belgium and the Netherlands in the heart of Europe? A suburb of Amsterdam, March 2022. The beginning of an extraordinary trial. A large police force which at first sight seems to be ordinary, A bunker, it has been specially designed with surveillance cameras, armored windows It's here of the Mocro Maffia will be judged. He arrives in an armored vehicle. Ridouan Taghi, 44 years old. According to the police, he controls 30 percent He has an estimated fortune Alongside him, 16 of his accomplices. They are being prosecuted for six murders An intense trial. It's forbidden to film Journalists follow the debates According to Wouter Laumans, this trial is a first in the Netherlands. The prosecutors are not anonymous. They ask us not to write down their name, It says something about the fear In the courtroom, the key witness of the trial. He's the former right-hand man However, since he agreed there's been one death after another When they announced within weeks, his brother was killed. Later on, his lawyer was murdered. Then Mr. Peter de Vries his representative in the media. He got murdered last summer. From the depths of his prison, The witness' first lawyer in front of his wife. Today, a new lawyer replaces him. He lives under close protection He agreed to meet with us. Peter Shelton arranged to meet us two hours drive from Amsterdam. He's 65 years old, I'm now in protection How does it feel living like this? It's a little bit like a package, I would never let anybody intimidate me. It's important Somebody has to do it. For me, we follow the rule of law. Military personnel in plain clothes The lawyer was a close friend Both had been informed that they were We were discussing the dangers, the risks. It was clear that we discussed but we didn't know I told Peter that he was the biggest prize It would create far more chaos While working on this trial, the two friends discovered how powerful and how much of a threat My client has made statements how they do the killings, It really shows a very organized way This is actually also something for the Netherlands to fight with. The authorities are quite unorganized These mafia gangs that has exploded in the Netherlands The government has long underestimated Yet in Amsterdam, one man warned This is Wouter Laumans, the journalist we met He's written two books on the subject. This is the first one, &quot;Mocro Maffia&quot;. This was published in 2014. I sold about 140,000 copies. The book became a social phenomenon. It even inspired a fictional series We just wanted to scare them. They started acting crazy, The Dutch witnessed to take control of the cocaine trade. &quot;Mocro Maffia&quot; is a slang term to refer to the Moroccan mafia. As we all know, a lot of hashish What is the epic center It's Amsterdam, with the coffee shops. The whole infrastructure Then in Colombia, the cocaine cartels They started shipping The cocaine went over That's how it started. The guys who were running That's the explanation The port of Rotterdam for the Mocro Maffia. As the largest port in Europe, In 2021, customs managed This is only a small part I've seen guys who went from young guys with a North Face jacket to multimillionaire who owns in a time span of three years. This can happen. It's not the gold dream, That's why Ridouan Taghi of Dutch criminals. He started dealing marijuana. Then at a certain point, he replaced the hashish He became very wealthy. Fifty kilometers from Amsterdam, where the country's Vito Shukrula At 32 years old, He's familiar with the profile who were recruited by traffickers. When you talk to these kind of guys, you find out Sometimes they have a very bad childhood or they don't have anything. Bad schooling, They are very vulnerable for guys in the underworld. He's surprised by the speed go from petty crime to extreme violence. Before there were people, But nowadays, you see They may start with stealing a bike. Then within three months, they are handed a Kalashnikov from someone Vito set up his practice in an area inhabited -Don't need it anymore? -Here you better stop. To film here. What are we filming here? They're going to kick you, -Why? They don't want One of the guys that live here for shooting a police, so they don't care. When the police come to arrest someone, because they're going to get into a fight. It's not safe. Today, the Mocro Maffia He built his reputation Ironically, his parents were fans They named him Vito The lawyer has noticed are getting increasingly violent, Like this raid on a house where the police discovered an arsenal. This is a case about a large stack With machine rifles, Everything that you need to kill people If you're talking about license plates, suits, hoodies, It shows the level of professionalism The war between is said to have left The amount of violence is getting more and more extreme, They want to show each other I can come with more extreme violence The thing is that it keeps going on Beheadings, and shooting people even if they are with a baby There's no rules in this game. Here are some examples of text messages to his men in the field. However, it was during a raid that the Mocro Maffia June 2020, they storm a farm. Law enforcement agencies for a drug gang, They inspect the rooms one by one. They find no drugs or money. However, in a garage, with soundproof walls In one of them, This container A dentist's chair In the corner, pliers, pincers We managed to get in touch [Dutch spoken audio] Vito, the lawyer, A meeting behind closed doors under a bridge The man is 34 years old. He belonged to a rival clan He was the boss' right-hand man, [Dutch spoken audio] Very quickly, capable of killing on command How much money [Dutch spoken audio] What do you think about Ridouan Taghi? I have no answer to the question. What's his reputation? Bad, angry. You can say like a monster. A monster, like a devil. People are still afraid of him [Dutch spoken audio] A few months after this interview, the Mocro Maffia attacked Prime Minister Mark Rutte that he was going to give of 430 million euros to help the police It was after this announcement that the police discovered had started to follow him. The politician who used to be close and travel by bicycle, was immediately placed To organize the counterattack, a country that has become an expert The Dutch Minister of Justice For two days, she met specializing in the fight She improvised a press conference [Dutch spoken audio] She was appointed only a few months ago. At 45, she has become the new face In Europe, everyone discovers Do you think that Netherlands I think we are, and excellent infrastructure that we have, which is great and beneficial is also being abused by criminals. We see that we are an entrance of drugs coming in and going out. That means that if we want it or not, which is also with our neighbors with France, with Spain, You're going to fight against them, -Personally? No, then I should have chosen another job. Some people say, and some ministers say -What do you think of that? That would mean that the politicians -That is not the case. Definitely not. -Thank you so much. However, while the Netherlands the Mocro Maffia The motorway between Antwerp and Rotterdam It's one of the routes used by traffickers [Dutch spoken audio] In an unmarked vehicle, He belongs Its mission, to intercept suspicious cars. [French spoken audio] Suddenly, he has a catch, [French spoken audio] In a few seconds, [French spoken audio] Thierry was right. [French spoken audio] The car is escorted On that day, the Federal police joined forces for a major operation. They are increasing the number of checks and they search This morning, most of the seizures [French spoken audio] Also, more unusual products, In the late afternoon, thanks to this special van. Inside, a mobile scanner allows to find what could be hidden [French spoken audio] Below the light box, a suspicious bag, locked in a secret cache, Bud Futessanne heads In ten years of service, he has learned to outwit [French spoken audio] Inside, in a simple plastic bag, a small fortune. [French spoken audio] This trafficker, has just lost 100,000 euros. He was coming from Rotterdam. He was to deliver In 2021, Belgium became a new cocaine hub. That year, the Belgium Federal Police thousands of messages In a fortnight, seized 17 tons of cocaine It was the Belgium Federal prosecutor of the phenomenon on the news. [French spoken audio] At the Brussels courthouse, Federal Prosecutor He still can't believe the amount of money [French spoken audio] The Belgium police that they're not used to. Gangs fighting for control Murders, settling of scores, even grenade throwing as in this footage in the city center. [French spoken audio] Today, it's the city of Antwerp Located in the north of the country, Antwerp, the second A gigantic industrial zone that has become A headache They are housed in the heart of the port. The fight against cocaine trafficking A tough challenge that pass through the port each year. Kristian Vanderwaeren [French spoken audio] In this war, he has a secret weapon. Every day, They direct them In reality, a giant scanner. Within a few minutes, the load is x-rayed. [French spoken audio] Customs officers select the goods declared, or sometimes, The scans are then analyzed [French spoken audio] Nothing to report in this container. However, he director is keen of the traffickers on a previous seizure. [French spoken audio] The scan can also indicate [French spoken audio] In this refrigerated lorry, customs officers only found In 2020, they made a record seizure, thanks to information Eleven tons of pure cocaine a total value of 450 million euros. [French spoken audio] Here, cocaine seizures Three tons in 2013, 90 tons last year. Customs officials estimate barely 10 percent of the drugs In Antwerp, He met us at a cafe in the city center. It's hard to imagine this man in the 2000s. When they ask me Everything is inside in that time Also, I can say the pressure is exciting. Paul Meyer was the head He was paid by traffickers safely into the port of Antwerp. Twenty years of criminal life. I know people don't want to hear this. They want to see somebody who's saying But I'm honest, it was a beautiful time. It was really beautiful time. The product is not nice. I agree, Yes, I don't like it, All the things around smuggling, -How much money did you make? A lot of money every five weeks. The turnover was between 21 We made a lot of money. According to the courts, he and his associates before the Belgium police In 2007, Then extradited to Belgium where he was sentenced Today, he's a free man. He claims he has gone into construction, but has forgotten nothing of the tricks According to him, Yes, you can see It's incredibly big, up to Holland. Next to the historic center of Antwerp, It is huge, Here you can see, Normally, you cannot drive here. Now you can see for yourself up to the boat. This is a big difference This is an open port. Unlike the port of Rotterdam, which is completely fenced off you can walk the length and breadth easily accessing container storage areas I told you, see it yourself. It's easy to drive here When they want to organize this, The wood. Now, 80 percent From countries like Brazil The wood comes mainly from Latin America, This type of cargo is therefore We were able to access For over half an hour, without anyone stopping us. This is a boat from South America. If you are clever, It's easy since you know Therefore, you either need people here Somebody puts the containers out, simple. It's not difficult. To get this information, it's sometimes enough to simply talk who are on the quay. -Hello. [Dutch spoken audio] Seemingly, a harmless conversation, but for a smuggler, It's in my language. However, you can see how easy He explained to me everything. He also gave me in the port Information is easy to get here. I only opened my window I didn't pay him for that information. Corruption in the port In 2021, the discovery of encrypted conversations revealed the extent of the scourge. Customs, police, shipping companies, the cocaine mafia has infiltrated Their main target, dockers. We went to the bars in the port With a hidden camera, I hear a lot about corruption, Are there people coming to you They try to have your name. When you don't cooperate with them, they threaten to do something It's a dangerous business. You'd rather stay out of the business. Once you are in, Do you know of people? Do you think it's possible -No. Watch over what you're doing. The dockers know the risks [Dutch spoken audio] These threats are so frequent made a prevention clip when working for the mafia. The clip features a smuggler [Dutch spoken audio] The clip alerts the dockers. Once they get involved, [Dutch spoken audio] For the traffickers, the dockers They're the ones Niels worked for ten years on the docks. Today, he's retired. My job was to lift containers I operated the mobile cranes, the big machines that take Usually, on a ship like this, the drugs are concentrated and the traffickers have to isolate it from the rest of the cargo Niels was approached several times A guy told to me that I had to put There was a time he said I lifted the container I said something is wrong here. If you agree with them, they own you, How much money I heard amounts from 10,000, 20,000 euros. First, you get the 20K, You still have to do it, More surprisingly, to bribe the dockworkers. They pay them in cocaine. Most of the young dockers because they are not able to do They use coke to be more fucked up The traffickers know that, They tell them if you do this, They make them addicted to coke that they can sell themselves or whatever. Do you think that we still can fight It's a war nobody can win. Nobody can win it. In Antwerp, some neighborhoods by drug trafficking. Cocaine arrives in such quantities A gram is the cheapest in Europe, [French spoken audio] Filip Dewinter has been a city councilor for more than 20 years. He leads a Flemish nationalist party, which is classified as far right. [French spoken audio] He is a major figure in Belgian politics. However, he is only accompanied as the neighborhood [Dutch spoken audio] Today, he is one of the few politicians about the violence in Antwerp. He wants to show us a scene a few weeks earlier. A man shoots his gun eight shots in the street. The shooter is not hiding, takes his time, and surprisingly, is filmed [French spoken audio] Tonight, Filip Dewinter Drug trafficking is on the agenda. This is a sensitive subject on which the mayor [French spoken audio] The City Council takes place in the majestic 16th century City Hall. A solemn and formal setting. This does not stop Filip Dewinter He has just learned have suggested that since the war on drugs cocaine use That makes him angry. [Dutch spoken audio] The mayor does not want of decriminalization. According to him, the city simply [Dutch spoken audio] In Antwerp, cocaine trafficking This is the equivalent The drug traffickers Like in Holland, they do not hesitate On the 24th of September, to kidnap the Minister of Justice. This member of the government against Mocro Maffia leaders now lives under heavy protection [French spoken audio] Belgium and the Netherlands may not be on the verge but one thing is certain, the cocaine mafia has moved into Europe,