What is up guys! And welcome to a special This is going to be a follow-up for the And this time I want to explore some character Gaster. And we are actually guys what the first thing on my list is. you to name the fallen human. And there trigger silly responses. But I want you name the human Gaster. And what straight to the intro. Back to the to me, honestly. Because there's nothing That's literally all there is. No this. And that was number one. The next thing involves the River Person. the River Person will say a random thing to, so I'm just going to take a ride and the River Person can say. It can take 10 they say. That is not the thing I want keep riding along until the River Person how long it takes! Oh! &quot;Beware of the man who came from the line I was looking for... but that's that relates to Gaster. But you will to what I was searching for... That's interesting! There we go! That's what I wanted. &quot;Beware is actually very fitting, there isn't, I Gaster but you will see later on in the why this is so fitting. And that was the We are in Temmie Village and I will admit relate to Gaster. But it's still a pretty that it did relate to Gaster. What we And if we then exit out and leave Temmie Village and go back to just Waterfall... we have to wait for an encounter with exactly I'm talking about. Yes! Okay. Special enemy Temmie appears! And actually feed Temmie flakes and instead giving Temmie some flakes, we have to select no... And this is what happens. And why I - oh my Gaster secrets... I believe there were some theories that theme. A hidden Gaster theme. But that this was just a silly little In the town of Snowdin if you go into where later on in the game the River Person will show up. If you're the fun value is a number that is random low, then you will get this encounter. This phone call. &quot;Ring... ring... Hello! Can I speak to G...&quot; and reason why people think that this is or not this happens depends on your fun actually to depend on this fun value. But dialogue. &quot;Wait a second. Is this the wrong number?&quot; Then you will The little song. And it's timed! It's timed We're very very sorry that we got it stop it. So, not sure if this is actually or just a silly little secret that of Undertale. But nonetheless a pretty cool Near the beginning of Snowdin, up here However, if your fun value is 65 exactly... There is a chance that it will turn into so I did not get lucky. So I will happens. There we go! &quot;Welcome to the Sound Test!&quot; So this is change into this. Listen to all your favorites. Press Left The first one is called Happy Town. thing, over and over again. Next one is called Meat Factory. Which one. Okay... Trouble Dingle is the next one. Another loop! You can hear that it repeats reason why we're here in the first place. The actual secret and why this is about And the creepy thing here is, even if you can't! As soon as you play Gaster's Theme, you cannot go back and it will just play until this Sound Test ends. There it is! &quot;Thanks for your feedback! Be seeing you soon!&quot; So that's the entire actually encounter this if you just play very important secret for this episode. Because this is actually the only way you can hear Gaster's Theme! Gaster's Theme is leading up pretty nicely getting into the direct references and fun value is 61 you can go to Right Floor 1. And this is Maybe we're lucky and it will happen... okay, no So here something should happen if we so I will have to restart and try again. There he is! The first Gaster follower, as But the old Royal Scientist, Doctor W.D. trace. They say he shattered across time and How can I say so without fear? I'm That was the first encounter... spooky! And bit about Gaster's history. So he was before Alphys and something For the next Gaster follower your fun Left Floor number 3. And we will see if we are If it shows up the first time... no! Of So I will have to reset and try again. Yes! &quot;It makes sense why ASGORE took so After all, the old one, Dr. Gaster. What an They say he created the core. However, his One day, he fell into his creation and... So... if we go outside... This Gaster follower will disappear. And actually confuses me. Because how do they If Gaster was the Royal Scientist before know about Alphys because she only So that is actually weird to me. And the third Gaster follower can appear Floor number 2. And maybe third time's We will encounter this one on the first Nice! There he is. And honestly, this one is head. &quot;I understand why ASGORE waited so long to one... Dr. Gaster. His brilliance was However, his life... was cut short. One day, needn't a gossip. After all, it's rude to talk about All right. So, it's the same here. If we will be gone. And now, on second thought, it's true what this Gaster follower said. listening. Maybe it means that these Gaster followers and Gaster himself is maybe everywhere. And maybe not all powerful lost in time and space... they can, like, see all the things but interact anymore with this world. It's definitely interesting to think We are back in Waterfall. And this is throws her spears at us. And if you're you happen to backtrack all the way to encounter a special character. A special a chance encounter. So this will actually happen every if you go back here. And we should be There it is! So at first glance we can Monster Kid. &quot;Have you ever thought about a world Except you don't exist? Everything functions perfectly without And that's all it says. And this is actually interesting to me other Gaster followers have said. They are space and basically not existing. And now we have this gray Monster Kid And it's not just dying and stopping to It's literally.. as if you've never However, there is a bit more this Monster to go a bit further first... And with the umbrella in hand... You can get this umbrella a few screens san. You can get an umbrella, backtrack again Monster Kid. There will be some short new dialogue, Everything about these Gaster secrets, talk now... &quot;An umbrella...? But it's not raining. You know, that does make me feel a little Thank you. Please forget about me. Please don't think about this anymore.&quot; So... it feels to me is... since we have an the umbrella is pointless... and I guess now is meaningless. And that I think ties together pretty well with world where your existence is Everything functions perfectly even doesn't rain... We still have the umbrella. It makes the is! The Monster Kid will stay here, I guess this world. And we can't really do And okay. We've spent enough time hearing about man himself. So if we go along this hallway here... Did you notice something? This hallway is hallway only appears if your fun value something else happens in this hallway. Obviously, it didn't happen. So I will There it is! The door that only appears And if we go inside... brace yourselves. This person... will be standing in the Doing nothing and if we also do nothing, Nothing actually happens, we can still But if we decide to interact... He will vanish and I guess again there isn't actually one hundred percent pretty much almost everyone agrees that is definitely worthy of being the secret Definitely very rare and very unlikely searching for it. But I can imagine that randomly, they would be really freaked out. And now definitely I would say the most special So get ready! Unlike the other secrets, this one you do have to go into your files and change room number 264. And as you can see, there room. However, if we go inside... this happens. We very, VERY disturbing music in the I do have a translation here, so I will ENTRY NUMBER SEVENTEEN DARK DARKER YET DARKER THE DARKNESS KEEPS GROWING THE SHADOWS CUTTING DEEPER PHOTON READINGS NEGATIVE THIS NEXT EXPERIMENT SEEMS VERY INTERESTING WHAT DO YOU TWO THINK And that is all he wrote! That is all presumably Gaster wrote. And this also first said: &quot;The man who speaks in hands.&quot; The Wing Dings font, this font, does have so this led many people to believe that Gaster and also that this is about just created so many theories and ideas Papyrus! Who does he actually talk? Who are supposed to be in the True Lab... but this entry also got erased from it somehow with the whole Undertale meta It's interesting! There aren't really any sadly. But in a way, this only makes more to find out more stuff about Gaster, his now, this was everything I could tell you. enjoyed this little special secret Take care!