- In this video, I'm going to show you how There's no trick here. Like I haven't inverted the The explanation for how And along the way we'll that glassblowers use So I did say that there was no trick but actually the fact is sort of a trick. If I put it back to full color and then turn off the auto you'll see that everything's very yellow. That's because I'm illuminating the scene with one of these called a sodium streetlight. Sodium streetlights were because they're incredibly efficient. Unfortunately, sodium streetlights make everything look weird. Like you know there's this number, the CRI for a light bulb, and it tells you, how at making colors look the Sunlight has a CRI of 100, and a light source that doesn't allow you to distinguish color at all And, well, sodium streetlights But what makes them so is also the thing that You might know this already, but if you excite an an electron will jump and when it drops back down again, it releases a photon of light. How much energy the photon has is just the difference The electron is giving up some and it's throwing it away But because these orbitals are quantized, their energy levels are fixed, which means the energy of a photon released by that transition And the energy of a And for sodium, there's only that exists within the visible spectrum, which gives off photons with about a third of and they have this yellow-orange color. You don't normally talk about the femtojoules of a photon, by the way. You usually talk about the wavelength, in this case 590 nanometers. It's actually quite unusual for an element to only have one strong For example, I've got some and when I excite it with electricity via this tiny Tesla coil, you get this lovely color. To see what that color is made of, I could use a prism in the same to find out that sunlight was made up of the full Instead of a prism, though, I'll use a diffraction grating. You see how it split just like a prism when I put it in front Putting the diffraction shows us that although it looks white, it's actually made up of instead of the full spectrum. Compare that to sodium, I keep saying that but that's not strictly true. There are in fact two emission We just can't distinguish I'll get to that later though, because I really wanna explain So, an atom of sodium emits a when an electron drops from the 3p orbital to the 3s orbital. But the opposite also happens. If you can hit a sodium atom with a photon that has the electron will jump from the 3s orbital to the 3p orbital, absorbing that photon. If the photon has too little energy, the sodium atom won't absorb it, but also, if it's got too much energy, the sodium atom won't absorb it either. So as well as having an emission spectrum, sodium also has an absorption spectrum, which is just the inverse And with that simple fact we So there are at least two so that they give off orange light. The sodium streetlamp uses electricity, which when you get down to it, Electrons streaming from smack into those sodium atoms, and that's what causes The other way to do it is with heat. So I start off with a methanol flame. The reason I'm choosing methanol is because it burns with I actually don't want any because now I add a bit of salt water. The heat from the fire and excites it at the same time. It causes the valence electron to jump up. And when it drops back down, which is why the flame is orange. So all the time in that flame, you've got a mixture of excited sodium and sodium in the ground state, and it's those ground-state sodium atoms that make the trick work. Because remember, those are really good at absorbing which is the exact photons that are being produced And of course, if the it's going to look dark. And that's normally the but I think it's important The first question you might have is like, okay, the flame is absorbing but it's also producing In normal lighting conditions, you can see that this flame So don't these two things cancel out? Well, the answer to that is is just a lot brighter than the flame, so the tiny amount of light is pretty negligible. But the more important question after a sodium atom has absorbed one of the orange photons it's just going to remit it So if one photon is emitted for every photon that's absorbed, it shouldn't look black at all. But let's think about what To the left of the flame, you can see the white wall behind it is well illuminated The fact that you can see the wall means that those orange photons are traveling from the or in this case into The bit of wall behind the flame is also well illuminated But when the photons leaving the wall begin their journey into my camera lens, they have to pass through the flame, and when they do, they get absorbed by the And yes, for every photon that's absorbed, a new photon is emitted. But crucially, the newly-emitted photon will be traveling in a The chance that it will be pointing towards the camera lens is very low. In other words, the light is scattered in all directions, leaving a dark patch behind. All this reminds me of that my friend Andrea Sella showed me; these special glasses They do something amazing and so I went to visit the glassblower at University College London. John here is working a piece and because the glass has as the temperature goes up, eventually some of that and we see that Eventually it gets so bright that it's hard for John But look what happens when I put this special pair of glasses in front of my camera lens. Isn't that amazing? It completely blocks that orange light and suddenly John can see While I was running tests on the glassblower glasses for this video, I realized that I now have to run tests on these EnChroma glasses that I've had lying around for years. I've wanted to run the because when I heard about Like they claim to enhance color vision for people with red-green colorblindness, but how can something that removes light help someone to see colors that they don't have the anatomy for? So we're gonna test matches the way EnChroma says they work. Wait, if EnChroma can sell these, I bet I could sell these. Are there still some old sodium Do you hate the color? Would you rather see nothing at all? Then you should try EnMouldia glasses. They'll completely cut out Don't use while driving at night. Don't use while walking at night. That's the advert sorted. Ah, I'm gonna need a website. I know, I'll use the That way the website including eCommerce, with a free personalized Odoo isn't just websites It's an all-in-one management including business management tools like invoicing, accounting, inventory, et cetera, et cetera. So the first app, like is free for life, and that includes unlimited And if you want to add you switch to the paid plan. So look, here's the four-step process for getting the website up and running. Define your goals, choose insert your own logo, add pages and features, That's the structure of Then you can customize it. You don't need technical skills. It's drag and drop. You can change the typography, And the grid system just so that it works on desktop and mobile. And if you're short of inspiration, ChatGPT is built right in for generating parts of the text. Check out the link in the description to try out Odoo for yourself. Right, so to figure out what these pairs of glasses we need to make some improvements to this setup that I showed you earlier where I was putting a diffraction grating in front of my camera. And that's exactly what this is for. There's some kind of webcam and at the other end you've got the slit, and there's a diffraction And you can point that slit at anything you want to And it really is just a webcam. Look, I can switch from my built-in laptop I might actually use this But with some special software I can focus in on just the and from that it spits out a graph. When I point it at the sodium streetlight, you can see there's the 590 nanometers. This is much more precise but you still can't see This device has a resolution of about plus or minus two but the two sodium peaks are There's another little which I believe is also but it's weirdly hard to fact-check that. There are also little peaks which I believe are but people don't talk about them because, well, they're so much The reason the webcam inside this device can see infrared and a bit of ultraviolet is because, well, all webcams can, it's just most of them have a filter to block those parts out, but that filter was removed from the webcam inside this device. Look, this is Chris before putting it into one of his devices. It's a great bit of kit, by the way. Like you could spend maybe 1,000 pounds on a similarly capable spectrometer, but this one made from 3D printed parts and a modified webcam and a cardboard tube is less than 200 pounds. If you're interested, there's a link to Chris' I did have a go with and you can kind of see a doublet there. The reason there are two lines is because of electron spin. So you might know that electrons have this property called spin. It's not like spin in the classical sense of something spinning around, because an electron is How can something that's Doesn't make sense. But it is like spin in the classical sense of it gives the electron angular momentum. And by the way, that's my new favorite profound and weird fact How can a point-like particle This angular momentum turns And because it's quantized, that magnet is either That's the spin up and spin down that you might have heard of. And that causes them to have But that never made sense to me, because, like, they're just How can one have more And it turns out it's Like you know how a moon can be going around a planet like that, and the moon can be spinning so they're both spinning clockwise. That's prograde spin. Or it can be spinning in the opposite direction to the orbit. That's retrograde spin. And the same goes for atoms. An orbital can have angular momentum in one direction or the other, which creates another magnet. And that magnet is either as the electron spin magnet or it's in the opposite direction. If it's in the opposite direction, they're attracted to and that changes the energy levels and that's how you get the split. Okay, so now let's shine That dip in the infrared, by the way, is the signature of oxygen. So we know that the must be absorbing some of that wavelength from the sunlight that's I wouldn't see that dip if I was doing this experiment because I'd be dead. And look, if I put the there's that dip in just for the sodium line. That notch is achieved by the addition of neodymium and The absorption spectrum of those elements nicely cut out the sodium line. It's also cutting out I think that's just some of neodymium and praseodymium. Here's something I don't Like in the black flame experiment, we're seeing that sodium So why do glassblowers use Why not just put a load Shouldn't that be good at Well, it turns out that sodium only emits 590-nanometer light when it's in gas form. When sodium is bound up in glass, its emission and absorption which makes sense because are going to be involved But neodymium and They're lanthanides, and it turns out that the orbitals of the valence electrons in lanthanides are actually relatively small compared to the orbitals In other words, they're from what's going on around them. So the absorption spectrum are unaffected by whether or whether it's bonded to something else or whether it's part of a larger solid. So finally we get to the What do these glasses do to the spectrum of light entering them? So if I point my spectrometer at sunlight and then put the EnChroma this is what we see. So this is interesting. You've got this notch here, and actually that does correspond with the claims of EnChroma. The logic goes like this. The most common type of colorblindness comes from the sensitivity of the red cones and the green So if most of the confusion happens around the peak of those absorptions where they're really overlapping, you can cut out that peak Then maybe your red and green cones can distinguish between This particular pair are for outdoor use, so they're also lowering everything, like a pair of shades would. So the glasses are doing in terms of their mode of operation, but whether they help colorblind people to see colors that they couldn't I actually don't wanna and that's for two reasons. The first is it's a and I don't like being shouted at, but the other reason is, like, the published literature on the subject doesn't seem particularly conclusive. If I had to summarize the literature, it would probably be that they help with colorblind tests. Though it does seem like it helps you to be able to perceive, but at the same time, that it stops you being able to perceive. So overall, you don't have an Part of the reason for the polarization I think is because of their Like when these arrived, there was a little note with them suggesting that I should film the reaction of the person they were intended for and then post it to social media. But then of course, you're gonna have a Like I filmed my nephew using these and they didn't really have an effect, so of course I didn't That was about four years ago, by the way, and that particular nephew now has a YouTube channel of his own. If you're even vaguely I highly recommend it. Link in the card in the description. EnChroma don't claim that these glasses work for all colorblind people. And of course, it's not just about passing colorblindness tests, which the literature It's about your experience. Like, of course it's worth the money if when you put them on by that amount of money. So you could go to an optician, some opticians sell and if they pass the and you don't care about their and you don't care whether than a placebo pair of shades under clinical testing conditions, then maybe EnChroma glasses are for you. But EnMouldia glasses, well they're for everyone. God, that's a good ending It's a shame that I'm 'cause there's one more It's this really cool What we've been doing in and it's the method by were discovered back in the day. Robert Bunsen was one of the scientists using that technique, and he would heat his So like me, he needed a flame that produced hardly any light of its own, because that obscures the result. To do that, he needed a burner that would mix oxygen into the In other words, that twiddly thing at the bottom of a Bunsen burner was put there to help (upbeat jazzy music)