Hello. You are very welcome. I'm Josias, a specialist in organic fertilizers for flowering, and you're on the channel, plant crazy people. Today our video is wonderful, do you know why? Because it will involve a lot of growth and flowering for all your plants, especially if your plant has never seen fertilizer in its life. So pay attention to all the tips, all the techniques, and all the step-by-step instructions, because I'm sure that from today onwards, all your plants will bloom again, they will have this wonderful flowering here. All your plants, and especially activated growth . Look at this zamioculca, what a beautiful thing. But first, hit the like button, share this video with as many people as possible, and for those of you who are new, arrived here on the channel now, subscribe so you don't miss any tips. So let's go to the video. So let's go my dear friend, dear friend, the tip and the technique that I want to pass on to you today, It's mainly for those of you who started out in the plant business, and are not managing to obtain this result. Exuberant flowering, activated growth. If you bought a plant at the flower shop, when you get home it has lost its leaves, it has lost its flowers, it is standing still, it is stagnant, it has been years since you have seen any flower buds. Are you already giving up on your plants? Don't worry, after this video, all your plants will grow again, they will bloom again, and best of all, in a very easy way. Today, what we are going to use to flower, activate the growth of all our plants, is this. That's right, this white powder here. That magical white powder. I'm sure you have it in your kitchen and you didn't know that it serves to activate the growth, and also activate the flowering of all your plants. This is sodium bicarbonate. That's right, baking soda. Did you know that bicarbonate has the power to activate the growth and flowering of your plants? Mainly plants that have never seen fertilizer in their lives. So you're going to give a shock, you're going to shock your plants, and what will the result be? An almost instantaneous flowering. And also activated growth. So let's go. You will need 2 l of water. You will take baking soda, which I'm sure you have in your kitchen, and we will take this amount here, half a tablespoon of baking soda. You will put it in 2 l of water. Now you will stir very well to dissolve all this bicarbonate. Tell me in the comments, which country are you watching this video from so I can send you a special hug. Sodium bicarbonate, in addition to activating the growth and flowering of your plants, will also eliminate pests in the substrate and soil of all your plants. It also works for plants that are in pots and plants that are planted in the ground. So after you've moved, you're going to throw it on all your plants, especially those plants that don't want to flower, don't want to grow, those plants that are standing still, that are stagnant, that have been there for years when you haven't seen any flower buds on your plants. plants. Let's play this one too. Use on plants that are already flowering, precisely so that the flowering lasts much longer. These plants of mine here, when this load of flowers ends , a new load of flowers soon arrives. So my plants are always in bloom. Baking soda is excellent for activating growth and activating flowering in all your plants. If you didn't know, this is a tip you learned here on the Crazy Plants channel. So let's continue playing here in our plants, and for those of you who made it this far, if you liked this video, press like and share this video with your friends. Josias, plant crazy people, is here to help you, always with a new tip for all your plants. And now run to apply this fertilization with bicarbonate, so that all your plants can bloom and grow again. I hope you liked it, hugs, stay with God and see you in the next video. goodbye