This video's sponsored by Audible - for In the Game of Thrones show, the three-eyed He's like Obi-Wan or Dumbledore - a wise dies. But in the books, he has a rich backstory a spymaster who ruled a kingdom, and a leader most powerful and mysterious characters in His grand plan involves the old gods and Azor and Quaithe and even Euron Greyjoy. In the books, he's called the three-eyed Brynden was born one hundred and twenty-five The King of Westeros back then was Aegon the king . He was married to his sister Naerys they had a son called Daeron. But Aegon took many other women as lovers, Waters, Aegor Rivers, Shiera Seastar, and the three-eyed crow. Brynden was an albino, with pale skin, white He had a winestain birthmark on his face that was called Bloodraven. Brynden wasn't as big and strong as his with a longbow. Brynden's half-sister Shiera was famously for her love. Shiera chose Brynden as her lover , but Brynden was called "Bittersteel" . Daemon, meanwhile, complicated politics. Cause when King Aegon died, his trueborn son But some people preferred Daemon. So with the help of Bittersteel, Daemon rebelled. He took the name Blackfyre, and fought a war This was the first Blackfyre Rebellion, and Brynden fought for Daeron and the loyalists Daemon and two of his sons . Then Bittersteel Brynden lost an eye in this fight - but to save the realm from Blackfyre rebels, but - kinslaying is a terrible crime in Westeros the sake of the greater good - and for the Bittersteel went east, founded an army called Blackfyres. King Daeron later died in a plague, so Daeron's wasn't much interested in being king - he prophecy . So Aerys chose Brynden to be his ruled the realm for him . of informers. It was said that Bloodraven had a "thousand and the thousand eyes of his spies. Brynden watched for anyone who spoke treason surviving Blackfyres. He was so focussed on the Blackfyres that realm also suffered from drought and other So many people hated Bloodraven - they called . Cause like Aerys, Brynden was known to study Shiera used sorcery to uncover secrets - and his shape . Which might actually be true. In a Game of Thrones prequel book, Daemon Blackfyre rebellion - but Bloodraven's a really suspicious guy called Maynard Plumm to Bloodraven, and there's something strange story just before Bloodraven arrives . So is actually Bloodraven in disguise. Plumm wears a "moonstone brooch" , which same kind of magic that Melisandre uses with - Bloodraven uses magic to spy and control Years later, there was a Third Blackfyre Rebellion after that, King Aerys died, and his brother Then when Maekar died, there was a succession were dead or dumb or- female. So Bloodraven called a big meeting to decide a surviving Blackfyre to the council. Bloodraven pinky-promised that he totally and when he arrived, Bloodraven totally killed or Egg, to be king. And the first thing King Egg did was to arrest Cause if the Hand of the King goes round killing stop trusting the government. Brynden argued "that he had sacrificed his . But still, he had to be punished. So he was sent to join the Night's Watch at the same time . Brynden eventually became for years, until one day, he went off for beyond the Wall . The next time we see Brynden, him as the three-eyed crow. So what happened? How did this Targaryen bastard become an ancient And what does he want? Magic in Game of Thrones is connected to family The Targaryen family, with the blood of Valyria, The Stark family, with the blood of the First trees and warging magic. Bloodraven is special because he has the blood father is a Targaryen, and his mother is a The Blackwood family descend from the First - a symbol of the old gods. [] It's hinted that Brynden was into the His longbow at the Redgrass Field was made eyes look just like a weirwood's face, with And the rumours that Brynden could transform crows sounds just like skinchanging powers young Brynden could that too. He might also have had green dreams - visions Night's Watch, Brynden might have seen the [] So Brynden was drawn north, beyond the Brynden merged with the weirwood, its roots and heightening his power as a greenseer - which the eyes of trees, and has visions of future and scheming for fifty years, waiting for [] Apparently, Bran has a special destiny Bran in dreams in the form of a three-eyed , and he sends Jojen to take Bran north . Brynden the white walkers . And it looks like he's to spy on the walkers with ravens, and he looks like Brynden succeeds in empowering Brynden's influence goes much deeper. When Jon Snow joins the Night's Watch, Lord And the raven speaks - usually just repeating to understand what's happening, and influences When the Watch elects a new Lord Commander, lands on Jon's shoulder - which helps says "King" around Jon - in Book 5, just before that, the raven appears in a dream a burning sword . So what's happening here? Many readers believe that this raven is controlled We do know that he uses birds to spy and enter So he's probably using this bird to spy Brynden not only helps Jon lead the Watch, Which might be why in Season 6, Brynden shows Stark and Rhaegar Targaryen, Jon is "the blood of both the First Men and Valyria, just This dream of the dead and a burning sword save the world from darkness. Brynden's interest in this prophecy might Cause as Brynden says "There have always - who had visions of the future. And many Targaryens are especially interested Rhaegar was into this prophecy - it might Jon. Rhaegar's parents Aerys and Rhaella got "would be born of their line" . Aemon with Aemon on the Wall for nineteen years was into "ancient scrolls" . So, much Azor Ahai. So it's likely that Brynden was also into With all of his wisdom and visions as a Targaryen out that Jon is probably Azor Ahai, and this In fact, this might explain a lot of what Judging by Aerys and Rhaegar's marriages, is expected to produce Azor Ahai. Maybe the reason why Brynden was so focussed or beef with Bittersteel, it was Brynden trying led to the hero who'd save the world. This might have been why King Aerys refused even why Egg married a Blackwood with the This might all have been Bloodraven's influence, Gesseritine eugenic quest to breed Azor Ahai. There's no knowing how deep this goes, but Jon because he believes that Jon is the hero Ahai, the hero who'll save the world - with Brynden is combining the power of the Targaryens world from the Long Night. But - what about Daenerys? Daenerys obviously has a big part to play Like Jon, she's a Targaryen who could fit claim on the Iron Throne. So why doesn't Brynden help her? Dany spends most of the series in the east, blind spot. The magic of greensight seems limited to the not know that this distant dragon queen is Or, maybe, Brynden's already got someone In Book and Season 2, Daenerys meets Quaithe, in dreams and gives her cryptic advice. There's a theory that Quaithe is actually Both these characters are mysterious magical Shiera was born a hundred years ago, so like alive - and as it happens, both Shiera and their beauty . Maybe Shiera uses magic to And the mask Quaithe wears might hide Shiera's So, there's no strong evidence here, but all these years still working with Brynden, they did in King's Landing, but now at a Brynden watches Jon and Bran in the west, world of ice and fire guided by the most magical Brynden's influence could really be godlike. He can enter dreams, see through trees, control So it's possible that Brynden sent these . He might have sent the boar that killed . The weirwood dream that led Jaime to Brienne Ghost of High Heart . Coldhands and Sam , and ways that Brynden might influence the story and the last hundred years of Targaryen monarchy. Brynden is the Westerosilluminati, pulling it's all towards the goal of saving the So Brynden's... a hero. A good guy - right? Bloodraven is aa spooky motherfucker. He looks like a "corpse", a "ghastly rotted wool" , living in a dark cave that He hangs out with a corpse-man and some creepy He tells Bran to "Never fear the darkness", sounds more like the Emperor than like Obi-Wan. So if it looks like a bad guy, and quacks Is Bloodraven a bad guy? There are theories that he's secretly evil. Like, maybe Brynden only wants Bran because to steal Bran's young body - magic bodysnatching Others think that Brynden is secretly helping Melisandre does have a vision of Brynden where . And there is the possibility that Brynden and their psychic weirwood hivemind - author seductive alien hiveminds. [] But what we've seen in the text suggests than a bad guy - he's a guy who does bad He kills his half-brother to end a war. He lies and betrays to keep the peace. He spies, assassinates, manipulates - all So Brynden's not straight-up evil. He's something almost scarier - a man Like, with Bran, Brynden empowers a hero to eight year old boy on a dangerous journey something he never wanted to become. Bran comes north hoping that Brynden would . He never signed up to become a tree boy, choice. Brynden manipulates Bran - at one point, he forgets Jaime crippling him . Brynden's flesh, and possibly also dead body of Jojen Also, in the show, a side-effect of Bran's - Meera says it's like Bran died . So, But what makes him an interesting character reasons - he's trying to save the world. Game of Thrones often explores this idea of When Stannis considers killing a child to of one ... boy against a kingdom?" And Davos says "Everything" . If we sacrifice of world are we even saving? Brynden's extreme means may lead to unforeseen In Bran's dream in Book 1, Bran falls towards or die" - to force him to wake his magic. Bran succeeds, and flies over the spikes. But he sees "the bones of a thousand other Which might suggest that Brynden has tried He has been sitting in his cave for fifty other students. [] And one theory suggests that Brynden taught Euron in the books is a mystical, scary figure painted red to hide the blood. He has a magic horn called Dragonbinder, and and pregnant women - he's planning a mass a Lovecraftian god. "These are the last days", he says, "when A new god shall be born from the graves and The inspiration for this horrific apocalypse Cause there are hints of a connection between Euron calls himself "the Crow's Eye" by crows - which might refer to the single In Book 4, Euron says that when he was a boy, That if he just tries, if he leaps from a happens to Bran - he falls from a tower, to try to fly. So maybe Brynden had seen magic potential train him as a greenseer. But when he entered Euron's dream and flung wrong, and Euron went rogue. Maybe seeing the heart of winter, staring Maybe seeing the threat of the walkers only Maybe this tantalising taste of arcane power magic artefacts, warlocks, priests, crowns, In the next book, Euron is set to bring some And this might not have happened if it weren't goals that he goes round psychically traumatising You can make a similar argument about Brynden's Westeros may have just fed more discontent So you can see Bloodraven's character as means. Maybe if we forget compassion and caution A lot of Bloodraven's early history is told in A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms. It tells the story of the Blackfyre conspiracy - plotting and scheming and talking smack The Dunk and Egg stories are short, self-contained to hear on audiobook. You can listen to all of these stories now Membership gives you a free audiobook each books. To sign up, visit audible.com/asx, or text Thank you to these artists - links to their And check out PoorQuentyn, who writes brilliant Thank you to the Patrons, including Amelie Cheers.