By the time this video is over, you're gonna This is a Sunbeam Radiant Control toaster. It's pretty old. One might say, quite old. This particular toaster was most likely made back at least to 1948. But don't let its age fool you, in most respects, this chrome contraption is light years ahead of your toaster. Unless you have one of these in your kitchen, Let me show you what I mean. To use this modern, fancy pants toaster, you then firmly press down on this lever. Then you must wait. Once the timer reaches zero, your toast is and you may now enjoy your toast. Now, to use this practically antique toaster, the slots and then... eu whaaaa? Did that... the bread. It just went down on its own. What madness is this? Oh, but this is an old fashioned toaster. It doesn't have that digital display to [audible click] Wait, did it just shut off? *stares intensely as bread rises* (in a slow whisper) Now, if you're like me, you're not just silent, and fluid operation; you're also much newer toaster is. Let's go for another round of toast. Literally the only thing you have to do with where you want it, is place the bread in the It does the rest, and in style. This is how all toasters should work! Before we get too deep into this toaster, recently made about the electromagnet in your There is a beautiful elegance to the way modern video that I was reminded of these 20th century You'll of course find a link to that video up above. Let's start with aesthetics. If you don't find this toaster to be downright its operational perfection. The polished chrome is such a beautiful finish, The right hand toast slot is marked "One lever to start the toast cycle, as well as Bakelight handles on either side enable you darkness control is hidden under the right On the bottom you'll find the crumb tray, most proud to be the holder of. Other than that, it's just a pretty toaster. Really the only radically different thing But of course, that's what's so neat. So let's take a closer look at the toasting Looking down into the slots reveals the fact that the bread falls on. This actuates the switch which starts the Once its started, the bread immediately descends begin to glow. Notice how the heating elements are different Both heating element styles are necessary but we'll get back to that. Once the toast cycle is complete, you hear and the bread is slowly lifted back up. This toaster is clever in more ways than one. Not only is it Automatic Beyond Belief! it's also using a very crafty thermostat design. Modern toasters operate based on a timer, Older toasters, like this, use a bimetallic But the way Sunbeam has used it here makes If I activate the toaster by pushing the lever you'll see the bread lifters fall, and the But the toaster barely runs before shutting Why is that? Well, the reason the heating elements are is to allow the thermostat to "see" the The bimetallic strip lives right between these their heat output by these little wings. When it's toasting, the bimetallic strip instead it's warmed mainly by This means that, effectively, it measures to determine how done it is. That's where the toaster gets its name. Radiant control. By pointing the thermostat at the bread, it's darkness, pretty much regardless of how hot Here, I'll let the patent speak for itself: The principle of operation of the control surface of a bread slice emits a definite when brought to a preselected temperature permissible error a preselected temperature to a certain brownness thereof. For example, it appears that with bread of chemical change occurs in the surface of a 350 degF. However, as the temperature approaches increasing rate. Time and the rate of heat input are also factors but the temperature factor has been found in an ordinary bread toaster as to make the Thus when the bread surface, during the toasting the heat emission therefrom will always be or emission may be used for the purpose of The reason why the toaster barely ran when without bread in it, radiation from the center It is shielded at the start of a toast cycle does, but once it's exposed to the heat trip and stop the toast cycle. OK, so we know why the side elements are made So the thermostat's "eye" can sit between But why, then, isn't the center element Why is it made of this thin wire? Well, that wire, believe it or not, is what The entire mechanism is based around the thermal heating element. To better understand this, we need to take And, through the magic of buying two of them, With the rather ugly innards exposed, one wild series of levers and linkages. These two arms form a third class lever, and on the right hand side. The fulcrum of the lever is at the extreme When the toaster is engaged, the arms swing toasting position. It's a little hard to see what makes them The force in our third class lever is applied class levers, the amount of motion imparted the strength of the force is greatly reduced. This doesn't much matter, though, as we're The force on our third class lever is itself lever, with the fulcrum here in the center, Now here's where things gets pretty clever. Mind blowingly clever, if I do say so myself. The input side of that lever is connected set screw to the central core of the toaster. It's a little hard to see, and I'd rather so here's the image from the patent application. The part we want to focus on is here. The nichrome wire is wrapped many times around to each other via these flexible linkages The nichrome wire is wrapped quite tightly, The squeezing force causes the two sides to top and bottom pieces, and slightly increases This is how the toaster sits in its resting When a piece of bread is inserted, the force the bimetallic strip via this linkage, and With power flowing through the heating wire, ever so slightly. Being a wire, the effect is that it becomes squeezing force on the center core, and causes That shortening of the central core structure the toaster, which causes this lever to actuate, and thanks to the multiplication of movement carriage to drop a dramatic amount. Once the thermostat trips and shuts power begin to cool. As it does, it gets slightly shorter, which squeezes the sides of the core together, which pushes on the bottom, which pulls this side which pushes up on the which pushes up on the causing it to return to the top. Isn't that just so neat? The design of this toaster used the physical provide the motive force that makes the toaster Automatic Beyond Belief! Even though the wire relaxes just a teeny, amplified, and directed so effectively, that And its almost accidental perfectness just Because the nichrome wire has such a small when the bread is inserted, quickly dropping And when the power is switched off, it doesn't pushing the toast back up. It just works. A component that needs to be in the toaster for automated bread lifting. While this toaster sure is a pleasure to use today, it does have some design weaknesses. Not many, though, and we can fix the worst Let's talk about its circuitry, and you'll Obviously the circuitry in here is very simple. In fact it's almost unfair to call it circuitry. This leaf switch right here is the only component When the bread sensing lever is pushed down helper pushes on the bimetallic strip inside these contacts to touch, completing the circuit. The switch latches in place, and what releases As it heats up, it deforms to an increasingly Once it's deformed enough, it snaps back are pushed apart with a click. The toaster is then shut off, and the bread The darkness control simply moves a little This increases or decreases the amount of before it snaps back and breaks the circuit, the contacts will open. Cleverly, the switch actuator can't engage thanks to this little swinging cup thing. Now if you know much at all about toasters fatal flaw of this toaster. Unless equipped with a polarized plug, there's elements and indeed the metal bus bars connecting voltage even when the toaster is off. And, surprise surprise, this cord ain't polarized! Now you know why you were taught to never Frankly this cord is terrifying on its own replaced anyway, but if you're going to you might as well add a ground lead, too. This toaster is made entirely of metal, and its insides, it's probably wise to add a In fact, here's a rather terrifying sight. A wire right next to the metal body, with I'm sure that was among the only ways to time, but if you needed more reason to give I'll link to a video on my second channel the process, but for now, make sure the hot goes to lead snaking its way into body. Again, I'll cover this in more detail over The design weaknesses which we can't easily of course on your tastes and priorities. Firstly, the toaster of course lacks a bagel But that doesn't really matter, because in here anyway. Unlike modern toasters which have moveable is a simple arrangement of thin wires. They don't move, and they're kind of close of bread maybe aren't going to fit. I can happily report, though, that frozen waffles, Pop Tarts, and Toaster Strudels all work just fine. Secondly, the toaster doesn't seem to do with quite the same veracity. It has always come out darker on one side I don't really mind this, and it's not I'd point it out anyway. What it loses in consistency on the individual its surprisingly effective radiant control And lastly, though I alluded to this before, between its inner core and its outer surfaces. This thing gets hot. Quite hot. These handles are definitely required to move You might not want to use one of these if whatever you do. Don't leave the bread loaf next to the toaster. You don't want to melt the plastic bag onto One of the more remarkable things about this it was. Even though this toaster is 50 years old, The beautiful simplicity in its automated breaking in two, there's not a whole lot Almost all of these toasters can be fixed In fact, this toaster supposedly doesn't work, but we'll attempt to repair it on the second A link is down below. And now, let's talk about how silly it is Hello, toaster manufacturers of the world. How's it going? Have you seen one of these toasters? Like, ever? Because if you have, well I'm just sorta No doubt you can make electromagnet toasters of these, but I mean... this is mostly just Maybe the cost of these levers and bearings you could get people paying at least $60 for And you could add so many of the features Bagel mode? Just run the center core. Wider bread? Adapt one of those squeezy things into this I'm sure it could be done. You could make the design safer and up to on the design in so many ways that it sort I suppose we've all just gotten used to *terrified scream* But I mean, I'm getting this is just so much better. This really is how all toasters should work. Sunbeam continued to make these toasters in Why they were discontinued, I'll never know, than the competition and people didn't really But I'd like to go back in time and make in my opinion it's a damn shame this design I sincerely do believe that this is how all Before I go I'd like to give a shoutout who maintains the site His fan-site, if you will, about these toasters is a neat exact toaster working more reliably. In the second channel video I discussed, I'll the power cord on one of these toasters. It's not super involved but there are some As always, thank you to everyone who supports folks you see scrolling up your screen. Thanks to the support of people like you, in amazing ways, and I am extremely grateful If you'd like to join these people in supporting get perks like early video access, behind upcoming projects, please check out my Patreon Thank you for your consideration, and I'll jazz that's Smooth Beyond Belief! Bakelight handles ena.... Hmph. How many times we gonna record this line? Bakelight handles on either side enabley you'll Bakelight handles on either side enableuy Ah! God! This line! OK, two things. I have to get two things. Keep recording, we'll come back. ...and this actuates the switch which start the... *sigh* Already... (clearing throat in an incredibly silly way making sounds like a car starting because Alec is silly) ...which squeezes the sides of the core together, Pushes. Dammit. It needs to be in the toaster anyway. Ahhhhh!!!! No, I skipped some words! *stares insanely intensely at the toaster* Whaaaaaaat?