Al Jazeera podcast. History teaches us that genocide It starts with the dehumanization denial of that group's humanity of the group in all or in part. The dehumanization of Palestinians their history of ethnic cleansing, That's Francesca Albanese, Occupied Palestinian Territory. She is one of the most powerful voices human rights situation in Palestine. And yet her role as an independent She believes that world leaders are their obligations in international law. So, I want to know when you're at crisis and one of the greatest How do you get people to listen? I'm Samantha Johnson, and this is Al Jazeera dedicated to amplifying we're all thinking and talking about. This is a safe space where we episode, you can say, Now I Know. Speaking about Israel's war on Gaza Albanese presented her fourth report She called it the anatomy of a genocide. Miss Albanese says she has witnessed of and that the core function of the She's also received personal threats. So with that, I just want to say a huge for joining us on Now You Know. My pleasure. Thank you for having me. Now, earlier, I'd said that you political expediency over their What does that exactly mean? The situation in the Occupied marked by profound illegality. For the past 57 years, Israel has of security that has, in fact, frustrated right of self determination of the the ability to live, uh, together on the homeland, which means today the Gaza Jerusalem as a people, free to determine Israel has built colonies Israel has applied military rule, led, to forced displacement and mass killings, because of course, I mean, of dispossession, has caused the So for 57 years. This system has been, uh, in violation And in the face of this, instead of UN resolutions, uh, UN generals in council resolutions, international international community has let impunity its violations without ever ensuring this is the reality we have today. I mean, the collapse of, uh, civil Gaza also epitomizes the breaking You've held this position since 2022. What's changed since then? Uh, the situation has gone dramatically for the Palestinians under occupation. And this coincides with the new government but also consisting of the most extreme political landscape has ever had. And we have seen an intense And annexation is illegal. It amounts to a crime Annexation of Palestinian land, displacing make space for Jewish Israelis only. We have seen this acceleration. We have seen an increase, an excessive force I always say, look, before October during the 16 months I had been a period as 60 Israelis had been killed. So the situation was violent and of Palestinians kept under oppression, but The situation was, was clearly And now we are really to that precipice. Tell me, Francesca, how did world leaders war on Gaza and after October the 7th? Look, I don't think that things terms of positioning of countries In the sense, Israel has never recognized special rapporteurs on the Occupied the eighth and the first woman on this recognized it either, never extended it. cooperation. And this with me, because I'm, also more audible on social media. Israel has become more violent, but becoming more violent against the utters a word in solidarity with the who worked with the Palestinians Uh, this is not a fight between This is a fight where both people But of course, European countries of this mandate. Things have changed And, um, my, the relationships like, uh, France and Germany I've been attacked, uh, and harassed, I'm insulted, offended, and slandered of these governments from Israel to the U. S. and France and Germany as an anti Semite, European, anti Semitism remains the most Because again, as a European, I deeply citizens, or the Jewish people in Europe. So I do have a huge sense of of that, because of that, I recognize So being accused of antisemitism I mean, Israel is butchering speak, including children. They've killed 17, 000 And the simple, the simple fact of comes from and what Israel is doing, So the situation is much worse But the fact is you are just doing your Can you tell us what Oh, look, I don't want to complain on the ground are the ones who I mean, Palestinians right now are I understand what they had warned. as against, uh, for decades. What they have felt was happening the most clear and explicit fashion. Israeli political, military, and religious the Israeli society, are calling for the from the land that remains for them. The Israeli state is trying everything and because they don't wanna live, land is not the place where they live. It's who they are. And so for the Palestinians, They don't want to leave that place. So yes, I do my job. The challenges,, the challenges are to brutality of it, to see the brutality, uh, Of course, I have an enormous sadness Israelis will realize what they will be a total collapse for them. But again, we have a responsibility to help each other, including the The point is that Israel needs to and member states have to do the same. But here's the other sad reality. The challenge for me is the realization deceptive international community. They treat Israel as if it No one should be involved at all. So of course, these are the challenges. I, I. face the most. The fact that we have instruments international rules that would prevent, for the horrors that we are seeing. And still, because of political all going to pay the consequences of it. We do not realize that today. But how does that make you feel when the It's primarily the most influential which are still Western states. Uh, I, as a Western citizen, I, had the possibility to influence And I don't say that with a white all, but again, because of what our page for many in the global South. So think of the U. S., excuse me, the U. S. as a country birthed from a genocide, So this is the country that today sort of So I think that there is a societies have to make. Instead of seizing this opportunity, This is something I regret. But bottom line, what I see being economic interests that link states to that go against the will of their people. I've never seen in my, in my life Palestine and it's cross cutting students, uh, but also workers and civil servants who are stepping down. This is happening at different Um, and still the system is dominated connected to financial elites, and it's This is what, what pains me today. I'd like us to go back to March. of this year and you delivered Council about your work on Gaza. The report is called The What is the anatomy of a genocide? Yeah, like the word itself says, of what has happened in, particularly six months that preceded March 2024, with a weaponry that was absolutely, which was a heavily inhabited, one Earth without escape, escape routes. And within the confines of the hundreds of thousands in and then It has destroyed, uh, now between infrastructure by again, violating basic law, uh, considering every Palestinian infrastructure targetable, um, and it killing, it has caused, um, the, the, the It has, uh, it has caused, it has lead to the destruction of the people, genocide if carried out with intent religious, or, um, racial, uh, as such. So these are the, the criteria to have intent to destroy through this act. Now, there has been a lot of intent and people say, yeah, but Israel wanted to eradicate Hamas. Whatever it is, uh, or Israel This doesn't matter. The motives are not relevant Intent is eventually the mindset group in total, in part, and it's not of the entire destruction design. It's about the intent. And you can see me clearly the intent. It has been said, it comes The Palestinians have been identified had happened on October, uh, seven, And this is what the soldiers have done. There's been a genocidal call thousands of soldiers ready to turn This is the Anatomy of Genocide. And Israel has realized this report, humanitarian camouflage. Meaning, um, it has, um, distorted humanitarian law without denying the Israel has never, uh, denied to have 1 million people. It has said, Well, we have Otherwise, if they didn't move, or accomplices to terrorists. So this jargon has confused everyone, the right of self defense of Israel. Um, do you believe that Israel does exist. Israel is recognized, the member Besides this, there is not such like a right of a state to exist. What is enshrined in international So the state is there. The state of Israel is there, is Nations, does this justify the Hell no. So this is my analysis of the This war on Gaza has been described as the Now the um, the Al Jazeera investigative of social media posts of Israeli soldiers what appears to be the murder of unarmed It looks like they're acting carte whatever they want and sharing openly doing without any consequences. As a lawyer, what do you think Are any international laws being broken? When there are atrocity crimes, it's to deliver, uh, full justice because Uh, and so much destruction and can't really compensate for that. You cannot restore what has been broken and, uh, and the trauma, that this2. 3 million Palestinians have, will, Palestinians to recover easily, let in a way, because Gaza is destroyed. But you know, I, I was thinking, question, have the soldiers been I can't say, because maybe they The point is that it's clear that after crimes have been committed, trends, the scale and the nature, the Um, a, a, a, a clear policy to, Genocide, it's a very complicated and of how difficult it is to prove intent. But here it's pretty observations. And the thing is that you as if they were disconnected. It should all be seen as part of the government in Israel, the parliament, the of omission, contributed to this climate. Never once accountability has famous case of rape against the So this, you know, these are crimes depict a picture of mass destruction Palestinians have only that land and Destroyed as a people. October the 20th, you posted on X in Gaza. The collective shame of the century in defiance of every norm of Now the statement continues. The United Nations, once a believed peace, are crumbling under the of this inaction or complicity of You must have felt quite Do you ever, do you feel like No, no, I think I'm heard and so and vilified all the time. I mean, it's horrible to have your frankly, I, I cannot comment on how people who call themselves diplomats empty function to cover up for crimes. But yeah, I do feel discouraged because like to shake this people and say, miss human rights very much when we How can you enforce an international if it turns into rights for some or Rights when they belong only to longer rights, they are privileges. There have been other genocides The difference here is that victims and journalists have been happening by the same journalists. And I say, what kind of monsters that and we do not react, but also which is responsible for all these. I'm not, I'm not blaming Israelis for suffered on October 7th, on the contrary, committed against Israeli civilians. But I've said, do you understand, might germinate in someone's heart? when they lose family members and they get life by someone else because this is how because they've suffered at the hand of and deprivation for for decades. October 7 should have been a moment and no it's been pure revenge. after that. The ICJ advisory opinion, which along, that Israel's occupation And instead of enforcing it, I see coming up with excuses saying, No, it's very binding and it's premised prohibition of acquisition of territory the right of self determination, the racial discriminations or apartheid. Instead of enforcing this customary states in particular, are making This, I, again, I will, yeah, the least. Well, speaking of member states, how individual positions of its member states? Well, I do think, and this is probably the system is of such a rupture. Also within Western states, you've people, have led protests, encampments, on the grounds of moral principles, So this has generated a It just started. So this is an opportunity to And I really like the fact that young articulate the interconnection between the need to fight intergenerational They link everything together But this is what gives me hope. The possibility to change the system The UN system, it's not conceived It's advanced to maintain peace it was prior to October 7th. But after October 7th, we So it's not a given that, uh, the It's not a given that they will lose, believe in the equality of all human rights and freedoms, to stand up for the This is the struggle, And I want to shake people's conscience and fight for a better a better the Palestinians and the Israelis Miss Francesca Albanese, you You are an inspiration, you're can't thank you enough for giving I really appreciate you. Thank you for coming on. Thank you for having me and for the lovely words. So now you know how one woman fights Thank you to Francesca And of course, a special thanks to you for