If you've ever heard Bernie Sanders speak, this Now is the time for a political revolution! Political revolution! Political, revolution! He talks a lot about big change. Political revolution. But recently, I found some old footage of that I didn't really know what to make of. I came across some archival tape of his cable that he ran when he was mayor of Burlington. Here, I'll just play it for you. Also, our library. We have a beautiful library. When I look at this tape, I see him talking A lot of people don't realize that Bernie veteran elected official. He has always maintained this dual-track view, Political revolution which is going to transform with the idea that day to day you need to Burlington will soon have a beautiful downtown Most political journalism, whether it's pro-Bernie the ideology. Bernie Sanders' platform is really pie in An ideologue without a lot of substance. involved in what he calls a movement more But the best way to predict how someone will Bernie Sanders has a record. So, what does it tell us about what kind of and his odds of getting there in the first place? A lot of the time when you see people make those big ideas. ...complete change of politics in America. ...a revolution of spirit, a revolution of priorities. Some people love those big ideas, but And what I said to them is, look at when He didn't try to abolish private businesses He tried to make the tax code more progressive He is aware of how to operate in these kinds The gentleman from Vermont is recognized for five When Bernie Sanders has to cast votes not with what he says his principles are... What happens in those situations? There are three kinds of Bernie Sanders votes One is the sort of courageous dissent. The invasion of Iraq, that's going to pass. He takes a stand against it. I will vote against the unilateral invasion The other is the kind of big legislative package And some members, Bernie among them, often I want to hold out for my pure vision. But then there's the third kind. There's a progressive bill where Democrats And it may not align with exactly all of his You look at the Affordable Care Act. Mr. Sanders, aye. The stimulus at the beginning of the Obama administration. Mr. Sanders, aye Dodd-Frank financial regulatory reform. If there were 80 Bernie Sanders' in the But he's not blind to the fact that incremental One area that I don't hear a lot about in Where does Bernie stand in terms of America's Sanders has a distinctive approach to foreign He's been critical, not just of the specifics, posture around the world. No more B-2 bombers, no more &quot;Star Wars.&quot; Let's invest in American industry. No, I won't yield. For years, we have loved Saudi Arabia, our The only problem is that the people that run He has raised, I think, sharp and necessary with Israel, with Saudi Arabia. Donald Trump and Barack Obama have both spoken Middle Eastern wars, but they haven't taken generate change there. And I think Sanders might. So thinking about a potential match-up between What's the affirmative case for Bernie in If you look at the numbers from 2016. Not only did Trump lose the popular vote, If you could unify all the non-Republicans. So the libertarian voters, the Green voters you would beat him easily. And Bernie has a track record of doing that Bernie is sometimes felt by Democrats to be But I think another way of looking at it is necessarily into the Democratic Party. If you combine people who love the Democratic with Bernie's people. Then, you have a unified anti-Trump force. Bernie is beating Trump in the key swing states. We know these are places in the upper Midwest I happen to believe that our trade policies in this country. Bernie is somebody who sometimes attracts other things. But I do think that that's a winning electoral One of the things that Mayor Pete, for example, of like sense of a return to unity and hope. I refuse to accept the notion that we can We have been told by some that you must either I think Sanders' is view on this, which location of struggle. None of these Democratic candidates are going There are going to have to be deals made, That's the political process, but you need And the question is... And that's something that I think Sanders He has this slogan, And that, you know, is in part about like,how Nobody is so amazing that if everybody then going to be solved. What we need as a society is a politically We don't know, if Bernie brings a bunch he boosts youth turnout. Will that effect last? But it's guaranteed not to work if you don't