Hi! Have you ever wondered what happens when I have since the electrically charged particles Can I bend the plasma streamers I will also measure the light from the I was surprised by the output from one of Don't play with strong magnets and high voltage I will also face some invisible, high Here, we have one of my Now, let's see what happens to the plasma A monster of a neodymium magnet Will we see any bending of the plasma streamers? Hmm. I don't see any noticeable bending. Instead the filaments weaken and It looks astonishing Will a smaller plasma globe do the same? Whoops. Almost shattered it there. But it seems to react in the Odd. Third time's a charm. This is a lively one and Until my arms get tired from Now, it does the same as the other two. And that may be a big clue. The magnet is closer to the A base containing some electronics. Perhaps something in there reacts to the magnet? Looking into one of the bases the high voltage to the plasma is coming Maybe the magnet is messing with this transformer I believe there's an easy way of testing it. The plasma globes have an AC and this heavy one has a good Will it have a similar effect on the plasma It's a lot of iron to put near such a big magnet Were you too busy - Going closer - Watch the plasma. The exact same thing happens. Looks like the power slowly fades away *Relieved laughter* To explain why, I have built Hope you like my effort enough to click like. A simple transformer has two coils of When an electric current passes through one coil it works as an electromagnet The magnetic field goes through the The change in the magnetic field generates With an AC input there's a constant interchange Generating an AC output of another voltage due to This works well until I put a Now, the permanent magnet magnetizes the iron core When the external magnet is the core can be magnetically saturated. Meaning it is not possible for the coil The transformer has stopped working. I can show this drop in power - I'm not doing that again! - You have to. This time with a voltmeter This is rather scary and painful Yep. There's a clear loss in output. Sadly, this transformer is no longer working at all. The magnet's path of destruction is getting longer. - Ooohhh, we have a hard drive failure - And it doesn't even care. At least we now know why But why are the streamers not bent by The charged particles should react. Like demonstrated with the Well, because the electricity used to ionize the Let me show you a little trick. Take the negative lead off of a multimeter When you point this at the Switching to a more sensitive - but still When set to AC When set to DC it measures nothing at all. On the table it appears to be However, with the lead having I'm detecting next to nothing. Pointing towards it I measure up to 170 volts. I am basically using the lead as an antenna to pick up the radio-frequency electric field emitted. The high frequency AC - and low amperage - Despite the high voltage inside it. But it also means the electrons and ions in the plasma are not moving in a line from one point to another. They are just vibrating in the Not following a path that the magnet could bend. After a short message I will test This way I can figure out what gases are inside. And I will tell you about the If you want to learn more about how then I have a great tip for you. Brilliant is a problem-solving how to think like a scientist with In their course 'The Chemical Reaction' you'll learn the fundamentals of chemistry You'll work through puzzles and patterns combine to determine the basic behavior By the end you will be able to make I'm a fan of science and always If you are like me then I highly recommend you go As a bonus the first 200 people using the link Then you can do more crazy stuff Alright. Because of the electric field I keep And I turn off the room light so only The large one emits mostly infrared and some There's even a tiny amount of ultraviolet. The infrared and blue peaks match while the red and ultraviolet match with neon. Not a big surprise since a common mixture Still it is a nice feeling to confirm Thank you, patrons! Now for the smaller one which has Surely it has a different gas mixture. Uh oh. Look at that spectrum. Barely any visible light. Only a little I did not expect this to primarily Even with output in the UVB range. You should wear sunscreen near this! Feeling skeptical, I tested if the ultraviolet And sure enough: The white paper clearly fluoresces blue Same story with a high visibility vest. What gases did they choose for the small one? The infrared matches with argon They used an argon-nitrogen mixture. Probably the same as used A cheap, easily available gas mixture. They combined the cheap gas with more valuable Not the best design choice. Though it does look pretty pretty... I'm not sure about the origin of the big My guess is hydroxyl being generated Comment with your guess. Thanks to my awesome patrons for helping out with I wouldn't have it without your support. If you want to help me keep I have a link for my Patreon page Thank you. Don't forget to click like and Thank you for watching. Bye for now.