If you were in Las Vegas, in January 2023, of CES--perhaps the most influential tech question on your mind: "Why is John Deere here?" right? They make machines that push and right? Well, not according to their CEO, John May. robotics and AI companies. Our solutions advanced sensing and compute, machine There's one key word there: solutions. That's a like Apple "...solution..." "...solution..." "... end-to-end tooling solution..." "...deceptively simple Google "...bespoke AI solutions..." "open This linguistic mimicry, their mere attendance tractor company. Unless, does John Deere they do. At least according to themselves, in "John Deere: 'We're a Technology Company.'" absurd. While the company lays off hundreds in staffing up its tech divisions. Of fifteen current robotics--just three in manufacturing. The company that makes machines to one that makes solutions. computers or phones or tablets. They blending software, hardware, and services into an Correspondingly, John Deere no longer merely rather integrated production solutions--blending that envelops a farmer's day-to-day experience. disconnected from its original form as a pitchforks. Never could John Deere himself have to operate, for instance, a satellite network. would mask what the company now truly is: it's not underdog, it's a market-domineering behemoth. It America, in a stranglehold. And so might Apple, something you pick up or put on. It's not one's it's your job, it's where you live, it's what it's what your descendants do, it is an all dictated by one tractor company that's decided influence, their ability to change the course It started with this--the self-scouring for millennia--so many millennia, in fact, that we they'd been refined and refined into this: a pulled by an animal, and would efficiently loosen planting a fresh crop. And these worked great, for The soil of Illinois and its neighbors was thick, it to clump on the plow, forcing farmers to But John Deere had an idea: he but of polished steel. This cut straight through the soil would shed right off rather than clump. he was the first to start manufacturing steadily grew into the hundreds per month, an instrumental part in spreading agriculture from a mere shop into a growing manufacturer. had passed through the generations of the family, manufacturer, but the industry landscape was as a concept, had long existed. Through the 19th oxen that pulled plows and other implements, power was being replaced by steam power. Whereas trains were now the dominant form of long-distance tractors could replace animal-power on farms. but steam-powered tractors never became ubiquitous But with the turn of the century came cheaper to operate. Popularity exploded, and while their agricultural-implement core, they eventually stay relevant. They tried to design their own, competitive. At about twice the price of that of shot of commercial success, and then its designer the wet and cold, so John Deere rather elected to the Waterloo Gasoline Engine Company was folded their tractor, the Waterloo Boy, enjoyed wild steel plow, Deere didn't invent the technology, opportunity, scaled up manufacturing, marketed from a niche, novel technology into the Over the decades that followed, the company company into a machine company--offering essentially anything you needed to turn a field always a significant, but underdog player in the competitor, International Harvester, began John Deere took a firm lead in ubiquitous source of agricultural equipment in the in the field. Like the tractor introduced technology introduced farming to the digital age. This started on June 23, 1995 when Rockwell defense manufacturer, unveiled its proprietary of the digital farming revolution. It seems was poised to usher in a new age of efficiency by tractor from above, which, in turn, would allow or when it came time to plant, better disperse had arrived, and while Rockwell was first, Corporation were close on the company's heels. To the late-90s American farmer, GPS and precision expensive, and difficult-to-use luxury. At least, not until Deere made it a practical tractor, Deere looked further afield where the company collaborated with engineers While it worked, it didn't work well enough just wasn't accurate or dependable enough. NavCom Technology and NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab, positioning system to support not just yield maps the latter a potentially revolutionary product. lofty ambition, its use case was well grounded. well, remarkably imprecise. Take, for instance, is actually a rather complicated process with to consider from when to seed to how to establish regardless of such considerations--or what crop one farmer, since the dawn of the tractor, has dealt overlapping is practically unavoidable--as forth across their field, it's nearly impossible be where rows meet headlands, or just between over a small section twice. And considering the sense: if a farmer is to miss a small sliver be no crops, if they miss it with pesticides if they miss it during harvesting, well that'd So farmers overlap. But they try to do so as hours in the chair, along with a long-established keeps overlap down. So too do generally normal, luxury. And then there are tricks: spray foams fences for visual reference, thoughtfully laid out of the farmer's equipment. But tricks only go so Across the study's 17 locations and four years of spin disk fertilizer at 9.5%, while the sprayer 19%. At every step of the process of growing them--8% of their seed is being wasted, 10% of nearly 16% in pesticide and herbicide is doing field is being turned over by the cultivator also means more fuel, it means more time in the on the machines, and therefore more hours in costs really add up, too, as a bad year will see the case of Kansas farms from 2010 to 2019, will touchy and tight finances, unnecessarily wasting is a massive inefficiency. One that Deere was The answer was called Starfire which, by with ground location data, offered farmers field rather than the 10-to-30 foot or three-to-ten work on the product, by 2004, Starfire 2 provided Through the collaboration with Stanford, NASA, positioned the company again on the cutting edge did their product provide superior accuracy enough to address the fundamental inefficiency Starfire receiver and a monitor then purchase guide by precise lines laid out on a screen and Today, through a combination of six uplink sites the globe, and leased bandwidth from Inmarsat is able to provide greater accuracy than the every single thread and turn across a farmer's understated. Only 10% of farmers used any sort of 2019, those numbers stood in the mid 50 to 60% the economies of scale blunt the upfront cost and rates of such systems have reached over 80%. plow and the tractor--embracing then perfecting while also acquiring sector leaders like new epoch. But that epoch isn't over, and Deere's Across the dozen American companies Deere has hardware manufacturers, the rest, broadly, are in machine learning, and automation. In 2017, for River Technology, who had recently been testing called the world's first smart sprayer, which, through deep learning algorithms was capable of herbicide within a quarter-inch accuracy. Not the market. Then, in 2022, See &amp; Spray Ultimate model 410R, 412R, and 612R Sprayers. With a camera spray boom, the product would reduce spray volume extending trips between refills, saving time and agriculture also provided an environmental benefit company projected, would reduce the airborne drift up to 93%. In this new era of AI and machine the first, as a Dyson subsidiary entered the smart a commercial outgrowth of MIT research, is pushing here, as they have so many times in the past with but given their history, it feels like a safe bet. capable of plugging right into the broader the American farmer conscious of cost, yield, Or at least, that's what it would seem. has gotten better across the sector's making better informed decisions, look at average yields for corn, soy, and cotton. In the past, being an all green farm--that is of pride. Today, though, it's increasingly feeling New-found hyper efficiency comes with a cost, or farmer is sizing up purchasing a See &amp; Spray fairly new sprayer to begin with, which if they Then add on another $25,000 for equipment and dealership. Still, given that soybean pesticides in at $77 per acre in 2022, and given that state at 4,500 acres, considering scale, such an See and Spray, pesticides would cost $350,000, down to a third, the farmer would only need about savings total about $62,000. But then another acre so cut out another $18,000 and the And then there's the less tangible costs. changing what it means to be a farmer. What was problem-solving, and improvisation is now software subscriptions, and the availability of this is an issue of nostalgia, but it Consider the solar storms that pushed northern it might've been a once in a lifetime experience it caused far more costly problems when the storm the moment farmers needed to be out planting corn While solar storms are few and far between, that's now more complicated than ever are far too for your life-long farmer. Rather than hauling leak and get back out on the field that same good chance a farmer will be out of their depth which as the far more finicky side, it likely out on the field, the farmer's left waiting for to pay and costly on time, as it's unlikely And all that's without considering whether the fix in the first place--which is also a matter of found itself in the middle of a battle over the enough to fix their own issues, they often need which is something Deere's been slow to hand over. a matter of liability and responsibility. their machines might get used and altered in boisterous farming community, this withholding sure that farmer is also on the hook for costly thus providing the company yet another revenue the truth, what's undeniable is that the and with the rise of big tech in farming, they are But Deere is facing their own financial have to adapt to maintain their relevance. Over into startups that insist they can disrupt the were 42 funds focused on the AgriFood space, of $53 billion of investment in 2021. A simple global share of land dedicated to agriculture is yet simultaneously, the global population is half a century more. Therefore, it is objectively and these startups believe the way to do Different companies have different solutions environment agriculture," growing indoors to outdoors; others are leveraging big data analytics of guesswork; while still others are working to cost through various forms of autonomy. Building John Deere has committed to developing a fully by 2030--that means every step from plowing human involvement. And that's remarkably in straight rows with relatively high distance predictability and margin for error that makes The combination of innovations like autonomous production, and more will yield amazing production system that is less expensive and less literal, incredibly significant, upfront cost. a fully autonomous wheat production system work as with See &amp; Spray, every innovation promises to so the larger the overall operation, the and therefore the more likely the upfront cost but only if you grow a ton of food. This greater and greater economies of scale a long-term trend of consolidation. Over the past grown by 7% even as total farmland has declined by more-efficient big-ag operations, they And as big tech encroaches into farming, by itself, but this leaves the small family farm as a mom and pop living in a homestead in Kansas, but themselves, is becoming a cinematic fiction. by agriculture work not for themselves, but of acres. Often, the owners of this land production are not spent at the local diner a multitude of investors and left to sit in gutting of the economy of rural America--one of the becoming an increasing impossibility, and rural This is, in many ways, inevitable. Tech has primarily benefited larger corporations being so far from urban areas and so culturally shielded from these forces. Yet today, John Deere these two worlds together. But this progress will and the autonomous tractor sits just beyond ability to incrementally optimize yields. technology is so powerful is that it's able to on what a given plant needs in an instant, at the scenes is a neural network--the software was them as a human would. Neural networks are a brain in a digital environment, and they're machine-learning right now, so it's worthwhile to our sponsor Brilliant.org. Their class on neural through interactive problem-solving exercises and then goes on to bring these concepts together understand how to make learning more effective the person who really likes to learn a lot on AI topics like neural networks and large computer science, data analysis, and other STEM it all practical, they break everything up into moments of your day, either on your computer or your scrolling with something that'll better your up on core principles or in the workforce and want topics that affect everything, Brilliant.org is have to trust me, you can see for yourself since for free, for a full thirty days when you go to 20% off an annual premium subscription and