The holiday season is here, and shoppers are turning out in record numbers to get a jump on the best deals. Spending a record $10.8 billion on Black Friday. But a new documentary reveals the true cost of overconsumption on the planet. It's called Buy Now and was released on Netflix last The film explores how brands make mindless purchasing too easy, and what the consequences are of buying more than we need. People say, oh, I gave my clothing away. They imagine that a way to be something abstract. But for us who are working on the ground, away is here. Joining me right now is Flora Bagnall, who produced the docume A floor. Great to see you. Hi. Nice to see you. All right. So you've worked on a lot of documentaries, but, I'm wondering what's what's the genesis of why this o And why now? By now? Yeah, this this one was really. This has been a very special, documentary because it's got such a huge platform on Netflix and it's an environmental film and very much from the beginning of the start of the project, we wanted to do something that felt different, look different from the kind of environmental f that people see, out there. And we just wanted to capture people's attention. We wanted to use the color and t you know, the language of advertising to pull people in and tell them a story about the that surrounds us, that we don't necessarily see, but it's always there. And you know, people love a grea you know, but when they look at the conseq mass production, you, you know, reveal to them, just as we heard the woman talk about all of these clothes, all this fabric showing up on these beautiful what were pristine beautiful beaches in West Africa And they are now, you know, stuck with all of this trash, so to sp You know, that's eye opening for a lot of How do you how do you expect, you know, consumers to see what is now the consequence of mass production? And I think that's exactly it. Scale. And the documentary is all about And you'll notice when you watch that we have these big, you know, graphics, these big pictures of these huge And, you know, some of it is created by us in o give a sense of what could happe or what it would look like if all this stuff that we buy was around us. But as the film goes on, you know, the images become more and more And you see those pictures in Gh which are, you know, completely un doctored images of what's happened to this beach And it's really about the amount of stuff. And obviously individually we bu We, you know, we, we need things But when you times that by everyone in the world and you look at the way that shots are kind of pushing all this stuff, this conveyor belt of stuff, when you think of it in those te hopefully, I think it changes stuff for peo and it feels different. And when you say stuff, it's, it's not just clothes, you know, the stuff that we wear but it's other. There are other things that are, unmentionable things, as you put it in your documentar I mean, which is essentially a lot of tr that we're buying might be a great deal, but then it's not built to last. So then it just either fills up a landfill or again ends up at the bottom of the ocean or on a shore. Yeah, exactly. We we and as when we were making the film, this was something that we kind of saw everywhere. Is is not just, you know, clothes, it's technology, it's toys. It's just the things that we buy in the shops that we might need for something I don't know, a birthday party or whatever it is, but quality is really a big issu And if you're going to make thin cheap and scale, then the thing that often goes is quality. And then if something doesn't last very long time, then you bu It wasn't very expensive. It bre It's annoying that you chuck it and I think that's where consume have a bit more power to make some more choices around the things that we buy, and just not falling for stuff that is probably not gonna last and is going to end up getting d through through this documentary You know, by now you're hoping to incentivize us to do what? Or think about what before our next action of buying Well, I think there's various different points that we want to capture people. We want to capture consumers and people who are kind of in th All of us, me included, all of us, you know, and just get people to think a b about the things they're buying. But we also wanted to capture, you know, companies, people working for companies. We wanted to capture that corpor and kind of look at the role that some of these big organizat these fashion brands, these well-known tech brands, these these kind of friends of u who are producing all this stuff and who have some responsibility to play as well, we would love to capture the, you know, the attention of law m the people that make, you know, have the power to change some of this stuff. So we're trying to kind of get open people's eyes across the scale to what's going and then we can all have a conve about how to change it, hopefull floor bag and all the documentar By now it is very much eye opening and intriguing and distu But that's the intent, right? Yeah. Thanks very much. Thank you. Appreciate it. Have a great rest of the holiday