This video is sponsored by Nebula. I have a beef to settle today, and it's No fancy intro, let's just start this shit. Playerunknown's Battlegrounds is a battle from this video's upload. It features a 100 player battle in an increasingly team is left standing. PUBG is one of the most influential games that it kicked off the battle royale frenzy A studio's take on the genre, but Fortnite, video games of all time. Now unlike a lot of people, I don't really do have a problem with how PUBG began to be So, first, let's talk about what PUBG is. PUBG is slow. Out of almost any battle royale I've seen, While gunfights are the actual highlights looting, traveling, and waiting for the game While matches do run on a timer, it's only of the map or near the end of the game, leaving The game, like most shooter games, doesn't leaving room for sound to be a key component However, while many games have sound act almost to and many times giving you mere milliseconds warning siren. While traveling can be slow and occasionally doesn't give you the whole experience. Your time spent traveling is focused on scanning choosing where to go, darting from cover to Gameplay is blanketed by this heavy feeling moment, because most times you very well could. While you're constantly searching for others, suddenly be ripped to shreds in an instant And also, guns sound FUCKING TERRIFYING in They're so loud, so much louder than any It reminds me strangely of five nights at loud enough to hear the breathing noises but will be. And honestly, this game has scared me far While danger is kind of a binary thing in you're not, the perceived danger goes higher You go from sprinting in empty fields without out unnecessarily. As easy as it is to make some little video about it, the tension and enjoyment of PUBG standing. It makes every moment, quiet to loud, have games. The game is also, t- uh- heterogeneous? Okay, small tangent- In chemistry class in homogeneity and heterogeneity. Basically, if something is homogenous, it of a recipe together, the individual elements So if you look at it or taste it or anything, parts. Instead of sugar and water, it's salt water. If something is heterogeneous, though, no its parts, its sections will be easily visible Oil and water never becomes oil water. These days, it feels to me like most competitive They wanna give you a consistent feeling of piece of the game sort of broken down into PUBG, in contrast, is chunky salsa. Every part of one singular game of PUBG is You're traveling or in a fight or looting, following distinct tactical decisions. Hide in this house, head to that hill, keep Every part of the game, even the more quote turn every match into its own little narrative This is a game composed of scenes, and I like The slow moments make the exciting ones more can make the boring ones even somewhat peaceful. It's swimming and the breath you take when However, despite my enthusiasm for the game at the time of its release, the community's excitement. When tracking the progression of Battleground's through the design of its maps. Erengel, the first and only map present at game is designed. To simplify things greatly, Erengel is constructed Despite there being 20 or so named locations, not just based on something as simple as closeness Locations like Prison or Sosnovka Military entire game, beating out the more traditional them being accessible in almost every game. A surprising amount of variety was put into affected how combat and travel would work One of the most famous parts of Erangel is island, and not just because of the incident. Bridges all across the island are used as base hotspot and the need to get to the circle to try and high tail it through the bridges. This was such a guaranteed behavior that a a subset of players, from something as simple blockades of cars to make gunning past the Players, me included, would also find favorite Mine, thanks for asking, is the shipping crates "Shipping Crates". Despite not being a named location, it has of the aforementioned crates and inside of other medium-ish spots that you can hunt players The gunplay is also interesting especially a verticality to things that doesn't exist I also love the novelty of dropping at Zharki, named location in the map. I similarly like Stalber, a set of ruins on The list goes on, shooting range, shelter, gets a unique fondness or hatred for, and tastes and playstyles. But among all of these, there is one location One location that's not just famous, but the as a video game. Let's talk about school. School is a named location in Erangel. It is near the center of the map, meaning it has dense loot spawn locations, and is All of these things combined means that it The second most popular is arguably Pochinki, out enough and with enough cut off sight lines more controlled and tactical combat of the School, in contrast, is a call of duty match. I mean let's just tell it like it is. As much as the rest of the game's design couple minutes of any PUBG match at School And while for the best players that drop there, often survive it, the vast majority of people lobby, jump out of the plane, parachute down, And yet, simultaneously, the rush people would the school outdid any sort of rush people It was addicting. While the rest of PUBG was measured and steady, a lot of people, even the ones that left school was already over. As the game continued to be played and as people began to really sink their teeth into While most triple A titles get playtested the general audience, PUBG was a game made necessary resources to do that. And while that sort of origins is what made means that when a lot of mechanics were stress While optimal parachuting didn't really sized town, the milliseconds of difference While looting could be done fairly gradually in school, you had to get a gun and ammo as This video game was not designed to be decided importance placed on the nichest of mechanics And the biggest issue of all of this is that, the people who played School nonstop were than anyone else. And so, a schism started to form in the community: that I call the "school bullies" because Because 100 people could be in a lobby, and were normally a few people or teams in every apart from the average userbase. In a game like call of duty with constant rounds, the penalty for dying was significantly On top of that, because death wasn't permanent with higher skilled players and not just occasionally In a game of PUBG, if you get hunted down lost all of the progress you had in the match. For people who invest their hopes in winning or go for tactical positioning like holding The issue is, for the school bullies, winning to winning with as many kills as possible. And so, these small groups of people would played more passively. To be clear, the school bullies weren't that shifted from the game's intended one, who held that original goal heavily. It only took 1 or 2 school bullies per lobby However, the matches were not the only place The largest and most prominent figures in livestreamers. In comparison to youtube where videos could parts, livestreamers had to try to maintain And so, they naturally turned to School, and them. And as time went on, the pressure these people and stronger. For a budding, newly popular development studio set out to release a brand new map for the the December of 2017. Miramar is a desert map. It has a major lack of foliage, very fast I dunno if this'll make sense, but this Everything feels designed to hit hard and incredibly open. The lack of trees and foliage makes it so given the tools to fight from that distance. The towns, along with everything else, have A lot of gameplay consists of fighting through Los Leones, the largest city to ever exist You could have all 100 people drop there and of PUBG. This map, too, has its School, being Hacienda more equalized and positional than Erangel. Or, in shorter words, it feels like anyone It's natural and adventurous and daring, . . At the time it released, whether its because distance gameplay, the map was absolutely In my opinion, though, it's because the design philosophy of the game. Gunfights were long and methodical again, It was harder to just aim your way out of disadvantaged. And, most importantly, it wasn't quote unquote As I said, the most prominent school bullies income was dropping at hot spots and then if they survived afterwards. This map was antithetical to that entire philosophy, bully group but the entire PUBG community that the map was "boring". I... disagree, like quite a lot, but with Bluehole finally decided to cave. And so, immediately after, after came the Sanhok was the third map to release for the Erangel and Miramar are both 8km x 8km, giving being closed back in. Sanhok is 4x4. That is one fourth of the area, with the same Loot pools were heavily tweaked so that you to get almost everything you need for the to be closer quarters than ever. Not just in area, but in sight range, with rolling hills. And on top of everything, there was not one, SIX areas designed to be their own little here. The camps, camp alpha, beta, and charlie, presumably designed canonically to be training It's an area unmistakably designed for people honestly. It was the first map to have the circle speed crowded and consistent, action packed, and players. While there were six different schools, all philosophy was clear: the entire map was a entire game up until the very end. There were no quiet moments, there was no PUBG was fast now, and only getting faster. With this map, PUBG's culture slammed the that is that death knell of competitive video A concept that I like to call the "skill This is the point in a competitive video game makes it so that it's no longer worth it and play the game. For a company running a continually updating the thing that you avoid at all costs. PUBG did a fuckin speedrun of it. If you ever wonder why game development studios is often a major reason. The truth of the matter is that the inner have a fundamentally different view of the player. And while each group is at odds with each to keep a game alive, while the casual players Once any new people are warded off from playing, that stays slowly shrinking until it's inevitable PUBG is a game that is incredibly punishing makes it so addictive to the most skilled When you kill someone in PUBG, the fact that kill a weight that most other games simply But in Bluehole's attempt to keep the game thing they managed to kill permanently is in the first place. The state of PUBG now is a relative ghost While the game has gotten more popular in the motor for the game has been stalled for down towards the sea of oblivion. Duos is no longer a possible queue in third the game. There is now a casual mode, featuring 20 real slightly more possible for new players, regular and first person mode is near impossible to However, if I'm being honest with myself, that I honestly feel like it was never made As time has gone on in gaming culture, less games, but rather making games more. More content, more story, more playtime, bigger, Multiplayer games, too, have tried hard to singleplayer works. While a singleplayer game is meant to last games are designed now to never end. Even further, it aims to be the only thing Fortnite, the game eternally compared to PUBG the best game ever at doing this. While most other games have structure and to change. It is formless, adopting and absorbing any And to be clear, I don't really hate this. Like the game is fucking absurd, but it wouldn't fun, and playing the game myself a few times, But, to me, it's not fulfilling. You might get eliminated from a game, but Jones tokens and a better shot at unboxing While it is very entertaining, layering feedback to me. Everything just kinda glides, it's consistent PUBG is a game that is rough around the edges, and difficult and fuckin bullshit, but it And the developers, pressed endlessly by an decided to shatter those bones. To try and make a structured game formless, thing apart. The bones would set in new ways, melding together again and again with every new commitment Something called PUBG still exists, but the 5 more maps have been released since Sanhok, and scrubbed of their original intentions. Several new currencies have been added to been attempted to be added, but all that is away while the company remains in gleeful PUBG was dead the moment Sanhok was released. It is truly as simple as that. ...and yet, I can't blame anyone for this. The people dropping school weren't being the game most. Bluehole, now PUBG studios, was just trying The streamers and youtubers were just trying The casual players just wanted to find a game To be honest, I like games for reasons that I know that, but it's hard to feel that So, while PUBG did die, it really would have In the world we live in now, the games that It just feels like PUBG is a game that released it was 10 years ahead. Playerunknown's Battlegrounds was a game It's dead now.