Live from Singapore. Amin, where we dive deeper into the and sharp analysis. escalating the conflict that has just new phase. nuclear response. can't agree on how to lower tensions. eye on Donald Trump and his picks for huge implications for global trade and We'll discuss that with some voices very Howard Marks is here in just a few influential market research firm Austin. The Indosat CEO tells us about progress building an AI center in Indonesia. The war in Ukraine has entered a new attack on Russian soil using US long approving a new doctrine on the use of The thousand day conflict has left the even before the return to the White could end the fighting in just one day. senior editor Bill Ferris. Well, it does seem that both sides in their rhetoric and in some cases their Vladimir Putin had said a couple of loosen some of the restrictions his weapons. considers that Russia would consider a a non-nuclear power to be justified of a That came right on the heels of the US longer range attack missiles against well within inside Russian territory. of that, launching a small barrage of of base. strategies here. 20th, that, of course, is when President And I think we see both sides here get ahead of that date when when it's U.S. increasing pressure to sit down at a Well, Bill, we know that these G20 and they're pretty chaotic at this point No unified front. How might this play out? G-20 taking place there in in Rio de You had on the one hand, the US for Ukraine to strike targets in Russia. very publicly withheld its support for That came after German Chancellor Olof week. between the two in over two years. and that prompted to say that perhaps Schultz's focus was Ukraine at this point. America, the G20. that, that inauguration of Trump in just and the US and its allies are not really progress in this conflict. world. Ferris. Against the geopolitical backdrop, let's this point in time. day in a row. prices at this point in time. And it is a strong dollar story against to that 155 level. being a possibility. Of course, the story of oil is about US inventories in particular, New York we're looking at right now. given Trump's rhetoric on a quick end to Let's discuss this and more with veteran Oaktree Capital Management, which has management. It's such a chaotic world. underpricing the risk from geopolitics video. The future is never clear. figure out the future and pricing it. that. look at individual companies and figure repay their loans and and deal on that We call that a bottom up, not top down. value. But how do you get intrinsic value in a I mean, valuations are skyrocketing, Well, you say it's overpriced. Overpriced is a judgment call. what you think something is worth. relative to that. determine whether or not you're So I think we would agree that the US the high side relative to history. aggressive than usual, a little more out. step. business has been a mistake. get out and it goes down and you forget you. calibrating, in my opinion, your defensiveness. are a little more defensive than usual. or out, buy or sell that's to black and live in. herd mentality, moms and pops getting investors are getting into. historically, that's the time to get Well, but again, I was with you until because because, you know, just remember And everybody, you know, as I said, we macro forecasters. And I insist it's true. foresight, you could have said in in pandemic. in 2021. is going to invade Ukraine. You could have said, I think Hamas will I'm going to get out. events, but it would have cost you a lot And we not only do we never know what's But we also don't know how the market's And so to be dogmatic and to say it's Warren Buffett, who always says it best, States, for example. money off the table, more than $300 Why? Valuations are high. You know, people look and they say, Does that mean we should get out? sell? So it's not a broad statement. say be less aggressive, if you wanted to understand. stocks. else. making calls, you know, predictions, But Goldman came out to say that it sees through the end of 2025. GOLDMAN right? Well, that's pretty good, isn't it? On the other hand, Goldman, I think it's four weeks ago in which they said that So as opposed to 10% average return over for the next decade. that's rather cautionary. it's you know, it moderate your On the other hand, a 10% gain between nice. Linda, is that investing in the short And nobody should think they really know And most people approach. It's good to invest in the United States And it's bad to try to masterminded in if everybody gets gives up on get it and a few viewers. Investing is a good thing. Do it a lot so that you can build a nest Don't screw it up. a short term basis. years. he has suggested in terms of his cabinet commerce and probably Walsh For How are you looking at that? and how this plays out? Number. Nobody knows. They have yet to be confirmed. What is he going to do? do. in the world? It's complicated. to all these things? on most things is usually quite limited. investment, our economy is in good So United States and or better than most And that's why things are high in the So the situation is generally good, but We'd like to get a good situation at a It's rarely the case. and I don't think it's time to get out. relationship with Elon Musk, for You know, he's been put in charge of the We saw Trump at Musk's events, Spaceship Do you read into the potential of might might gain from that? from that? Well. to that question. situation. a bromance, if you will, between a company. Musk is People have been talking about eliminating fraud and waste for decades. about it. what's going on means that Musk will do past. works. thing which is so unpredictable and worth most investors doing anything So no point piling into Tesla. The reasoning through which Trump's in government produces an improved I wouldn't go there. front and center. China to revive the economy. I mean, I know you see value in some China is attempting something very They had what I call the Chinese They had 10% GDP growth a year for a few When they were coming into the modern built on stimulus. forever. stimulus, but that has caused the growth They don't want to have the full brunt So they're trying to kind of calibrate. They're trying to calibrate the the good growth, but not an excessive rely And and stimulus sometimes leads to It's not hard. I'm hoping they will. They understand the importance of 5% GDP And let me just say, 5% sounds like a well above average growth rate compared Well, you talked about how it's Yes. difficult. Why is it still, you know, full of Well, I think because first of all, it for to come into its own You know, I mentioned before that the US priced. questions. better. It's a matter of relative choices. recovery might be jeopardized by Trump's economy. Trump's really going to do as opposed to and and and if you can tell me whether behavior on China's part, that makes may know the answer, but nobody can do Where do you see value in China? close enough to the operating level to crises in the property sector, for Is there a sense that because it takes a actually revive investor sentiment and Well, you know, any time you have an stimulated by the availability of then you have to go through a period of buildings that have been built, they're some growth. And that's that doesn't happen And it doesn't happen because the turns a policy lever. The question is not The question is Will they will they will they stop stock? designed to create the absorption? And and, you know, describe China as an investable. I've made my whole career buying assets investable. of getting a bargain. on the pile of things that people feel you find the bargains. everything on the pile, but that's where bargains. in China? position in China and have had for a Can you share some of the position in you know, we're continuing to carefully. fundamental situation is uncertain, you But the available availability of assets beaten down prices is a great starting All right. Been a pleasure having you with us. Howard Marks, co-chair of Oaktree Still ahead this hour, the CEO of us for our season ahead. ambitions and that partnership with Plus, we speak exclusively with future of AI in finance. This is Glenn back. Welcome back. has taken the stand to defend himself case being closely watched in Beijing as Lai hadn't spoken publicly in nearly the China imposed laws. now from outside the West Kowloon Men, what has Lai said so far? This case is very closely watched. It's been raining all morning. because there was a long line of people morning when we arrived. And a couple of things that Jimmy Lai He mentioned that he started Apple there was forced to shut down in 2021. core values of Hong Kong, which he said freedom of speech, freedom of religion, democracy. know the national security law imposed legislation that criminalizes secession, forces, essentially banning all sort of Jimmy Lai also said that he basically he sort of advocacy for the independence of He said the idea is still preposterous. staff or his newspaper to mention. counts of collusion with foreign forces material. of Apple Daily, where he is accused of against Hong Kong and China, and also out to protest against that extradition Beijing in 2019. December 2022. What's been the reaction from the He's been detained since December 2020. And this case is not going to fly under international media here. minister specifically raising the issue presidency at the sidelines of the G20 And you have U.S. secure the release of Jimmy Lai. for the unconditional and immediate And this comes hot on the heels of that activists yesterday that had already US and Australia, for example, sanctions on Hong Kong officials. criticism, saying they are trampling on And we know Beijing has always is essential to maintain stability here countries not to meddle in its internal Man. China correspondent Vindman Low outside Well, up next in tho set, SEO Beckham season. We'll discuss that partnership with and business growth. This is blowback. Welcome back. Taking a look at benchmarks in this part By that I mean Southeast Asia under region. how that may just provide the catalyst just in Asia, but the rest of the world. Indonesia out with a rate decision. coming in just hours. for a second straight month, delaying closes in on the $16,000 level. right here, Governor Perry Roggio said Policymakers need to be cautious of geopolitical tensions and an uncertain He expects the dollar and Treasury won't be looking to ease again any time Now the world's most valuable company remarkable run so far. Street's lofty expectations and its Wednesday. left the city. April? Has this has gotten to be so huge a macro event and it's shown that is also You think about its earnings in the managed to beat revenue even better beat the Street's expectations. clear the high bar that Wall Street has I also thought I'd highlight what we're after and how it has four out of the six different direction from the S&amp;P 500 has And we are also seeing overnight how it the broader markets. seeing that's revenue streams because the data center side of the business, quarter consensus. look at this chart is coming in at about coming. and it's just grown. heightened in importance in the past And this speaks to how it's managed to Right. Alphabet, Microsoft. chip boom. concern for NVIDIA is whether it's going You look at this chart that shows you two decades. keeping a close watch on what Nvidia The estimate for consensus is $37 highest and lowest is $8 billion gap. the investor uncertainty about whether the supply of its new chip lineup, the as Jensen Huang has said. delayed because of some of these So these are the things that we're going again, geopolitical background. alternative markets to the U.S. It will help. Once again. including for Indonesian telecom relationship with and video. Indosat CEO Rick Singer. Good to have you with us. it. Indonesia's A.I. How realistic is it for you and how You know, we have taken action. AAIB. a dream. And I have to tell you that an early moves towards 8% GDP growth and it will And before be joining me, we are taking Hong and the entire ecosystem. We're talking about an investment of But if you take a look at companies like in more than $1,000,000,000 into How far are you willing to go? to put in? at last year, we have already invested You don't get much merger happening on We took it from a growth mindset. demonstrated that we want to make sure in Indonesia. piece. create a bright ecosystem, how we make for the country, how we are able to people of Indonesia. We benefit the state owned company. more than more than the investment. And this is just a start. doing it alone. Indonesia, the entire ecosystem. see it will give good results for the Victim you say is just a start. much more investment do you think you'll ambition? Look You know who. And Indosat, if you look at together, at infrastructure, anywhere between 2 to 3 dollars will be looking at it in 3 to 40 Hmm. to tech and tech investment? very hardball approach. instance, banning, you know, the iPhone, If it doesn't come with, you know, big What are you. from Indonesia? No, I think I've been in this country every country, every country has to And importantly, that department's also partner on the ground. Indonesia is very open for investment. terms of how we do business here. know, what you will see now will be good for the partner on ground. that you said. for everyone. the coming years. Where do you see growth coming from? the big cities. rural areas. potential? You know, after the merger and what has rural Indonesia. about close to 2 billion U.S. 60% of that investment has gone in rural and we'll continue to invest there. be be said that our first focus is to And this is a market where, you know, quarter itself. customers coming from rural Indonesia, We want to serve them. are able to give air and 5G to everyone, And that is the journey that we have And you have seen our number and number What potential do you see in the new Nusantara. Indonesia will realize this dream of a How are you positioning for that? all government initiatives. And you have heard the new president, to long term strategy and are committed We will we will help the government in need to come together to help in this. for you? How were you investing in Nusantara? know, investing on what On rural strategy. we are going to Jayapura. indoor cycling available everywhere. perception that we are a big city and we We want to make sure with our scale and to serve every Indonesian. to be an asset light company. Which assets are you getting rid of and 12 to 24 months? what would be an asset light. which is delivering customer experience. We are. know. sheet is very strong. anything. Indosat and we are looking at all the And one of the options which we are But the objective is to see how it can One Serving Indonesia and driving are broadband strategy. and some say we will see consolidation How do you see that playing out? You know, especially in Indonesia, if ratio, it is on the higher end. In Indonesia, it is close to 22%. strong, healthy industry investment on the ecosystem. How do we grow the industry in the right There is a lot of upside opportunity. side. GDP, selling revenue, all those things upside opportunity which is there. industry so that we can unlock the full And I'm telling you, this will help And that is where, you know, we all have CapEx at an industry in the right place. assets so that it is sustainable. Vikram, thank you so much for that. at Indosat already. player in Indonesia with about $6 Now still to come, our exclusive Kumar. investment decisions and changing the That's coming up next. Welcome back. for a catalyst to drive them higher. US futures currently up about a 10th of Nasdaq futures also in positive Remember what Goldman said. S&amp;P, I think about 10% from here till It is a strong dollar environment. environment as well. and a half percent. Well, it won't it? And the business world is increasingly development of AI as the next big thing. CEO of Morningstar, which provides management services. Great to be here. Waiting on Nvidia, how will this play I mean, there seems to be exuberance. Well, I always tell folks that when important to think about the fact that But, you know, stocks ultimately reflect And in many cases, our analysts would much that so much growth is already keep hearing you mentioned frequently. well and will likely continue to do But expectations for a lot of, you know, to exceed the fundamentals. I think you always want to exercise The other word that I would use is keep Markets have been so good for so long it feels like when you have to lower And, you know, history would just tell just expect a little bit less. room for disappointment. I mean, in terms of correction that I mean, what are your expectations? correction because I'm going to get it But the way I think about it is if know, I'm here in Singapore, and one years of coming to Singapore, the in US stocks has increased in a very And that's happened because returns of ten, 12% over the past decade. replicate if you're going to win them Does that mean they won't do well? You can probably still get an inflation Are you likely to be able to replicate a And let's say the Morningstar US market I don't think so. Yes, they're going to be inflationary, It could be. into the market. Well, you can see just in the past few stocks have moved in different may or may not happen. sectors moving 30, 40%, I would argue, perhaps you're starting to already have And so even if it plays out that way, it's going to be playing out that way. environment and we've got ten year percent. We would like to ask you when that might might we see five? for stocks be impacted? predict exactly when that may happen. moved that. in the opposite direction as the equity And you're right, when you start to go to say they like that yield. and you could see that again today. investors are discounting where yields But that is a real factor in terms of And so I think if it continues to move bonds look more attractive. 2025? Yeah, I would go back to what I said, I would continue to think about underperformed. So and if you're looking at it from a general would tell you, look at energy, If you're looking at it by a market cap you, look at small cap. perspective, our analysts would say So there's definitely going to be And it's less about 2025 in my view. next three years, five years, ten years, It's very difficult to predict what So if you take a look at a 2 to 5 year Right. China? So today, if you look at what our of stocks that our analysts are driven off the view that well. domestically focused. there's some geopolitical uncertainty. in China has to do with local geopolitical level. there. the stimulus, but more needs to be done I guess I'm not a macro investor, so I or not. perspective, what's going to happen. going to be stronger over the long term. based on domestic consumption and we that story's likely to play out. perspective, China versus India, where Well, right now, flows have headed to And I think that's for two reasons. more certainty, they have access to their capital. basis that is already reflected pretty a very, very strong run. some level of disappointment is higher some positive You saw that a couple of months ago in China and things have come back down. things can kind of change the equation, Of course, when you take a longer term look at how AI is shaping the financial I mean, how do you see that playing out? interesting ways it's going to play out And so today, for example, if you're a with your client, but your client really in a different way. ways to justify why your client is example. is going to change the mode through technology will become more central in investments. the impact that I might have, it's the lot to do with I. Some of our analyst would also tell you necessarily the companies that are And so we've had some of those, highly. benefit without necessarily directly And when it comes to ESG investing, some transparency. that look like? consistency and continuing to make sure be comparable. materiality is something that can be So I can help with the data collection But ultimately, a lot of the good work materiality. Before we let you go, just one final If you take a long term perspective, should be invested? your portfolio out of sectors and out of And just getting back to your targets. environment. three, five, seven years could impact So I'd be rebalancing into the parts of target allocation. us. Thank you. Let's take a look at where we are in Japan in Focus, some of the movers that and I jumping on that report that the Of course, this is the founding family complete a deal to take the company February. 7%. And look at that surge in Kadokawa, Japan. tab on and how the Ito family seeking a Oh before we go I'll look ahead to We'll get market insights from Deutsche the outlook for the relentless eight eye results. sentiment in the market today. Horizon, Middle East and Africa is next. This is Bloomberg.