Good evening and welcome to tonight's with the Commonwealth Club of California. I'm Chairman of the Business And I'm your host for tonight. Our program tonight is How to Build with Steve Blank, serial entrepreneur UC Berkeley and Stanford In conversation with Daniel Lewin, of strategic and Emerging Business So I would like to thank you all I'd like to thank our audience Our program tonight is going to be and we are then going to turn it over And we will end in about an hour or so. But I would like to thank you all And please use the microphones. And with that, I'm going to turn it over Terrific. Well, thank you. Steve. Daniel, Here you go. All right. So we thought we kicked this thing off right up front. And we want you all to be paying attention and thinking of the questions because that's a cornerstone But in the beginning. We ask hard questions. I am right. In the beginning. There was Steve Blank, the entrepreneur Imagine that. And so I'm going to ask the basic question five plus years, what do you know? What do you really know you were starting off building businesses businesses of various sizes, And I think, you know, obvious when you say it, I think as an industry, are not smaller That's a huge idea. And as we used to say, large companies, Startups. You go to write a business plan. Large companies, New startups write five year plans. By the way, never, ever noticing that the only other people to do five year And we know how well that turned out. You know, startups, you know, large companies hire sales, You know, you do that to never quite between a startup and a large corporation at its core execute known business models. But startups, startups Startups in their early days And this distinction is what we now know is very different between an early stage venture So there's a lot of accumulated experience that you just That's because I've gotten it wrong Gotten it wrong a lot. So that's the first thing. Startups So so what's the core question that that people should be searching Because as you point out, the innovation process So it has to have a foundation So given that that's the focal point, Yeah. So, you know, you wrote a business plan, and a business plan is something you could kind of It's what you do a lot of market research And how big is this market? And put together some PowerPoint slides. And by the way, plan in five years And I now tell my students to auto generate that they're still There is probably a lot of tech support Because of me. But in fact, is a plan is just a series of untested hypotheses. And I use this fancy word hypothesis those students pay $50,000 a year they learned something impressive But outside of Stanford, a startup really It's a big idea. A startup is nothing more than a faith On day one, it's faith. It's truly faith. And what your job is. Another insight is to turn that faith into fact as quickly as you can. So a startup, because it's in a rational, it's an irrational decision, but you do it because you're passionate But the goal is to turn that passion and And the organizing document I've adopted is not the business plan And for the last 15 years, business model? We get two of us in a room But about four years ago Alexandre Oster, Walther, who wrote a book If you don't have it, you should. It basically says, Look, any company could be described One is, what are you building? What's the product or service Proposition two is who you building it how are you going to get the product from How are you going to create, as how you're going to get customers, We call that customer relationships. What's your revenue model? How are you going to make money? Do you need partners? Are there any resources you need Every startup needs to answer those And the two most important on day one is Which we call product market fit. Hmm. I was going to ask it on that point. When you have. Does this apply to all businesses You know, when I first started, just works for tech, that, you know, yeah, for decades and people I teach your tech. But it dawned on me that this idea of business model design I'll talk about called customer actually works for everything we do. That's a new venture. More importantly, but it works for the 99% on Main Street. That is, if today you go to the SBA dot Here's how to write a business plan. It looks like the 1960s. Hmm. And think about what that means. Is that okay, write this document, instead of saying, Hey, maybe you ought to work in one You want to pick this location, Maybe you ought to stand in that corner that is effect is necessary. So this process works for small businesses As you well know, every major corporation with the issues of disruption. Sure, right. Everybody. And the interesting thing In fact, I heard when I was in Finland is the day The Nokia board was meeting to the board meeting and Nokia Engineering prototypes of it, which for hardware, And in fact they were in the board million dollars commitment from the board Senior board member picked up the iPhone You know what it was interesting. What was their market share in day one? Zero disruption on day one to a large And so therefore, it's You need a continual process to deal with innovation, as Clayton But you need a continual process to deal with disruption because it's only So when you think about. Customer development you brought up, I mean, in the age of the web clearly there's ways to go in a friction and at scale. But then again, there's also, as you said, If you want to go build a restaurant. What's the implication on sort of any business So let me put customer So if you remember, I just talked Business model design, That's great. And if you're like to do theory, you could sit in your office all day But if you remember you just have a series of untested The real insight we now have there are no facts inside your building, It's a it's a big idea that is the smartest person in your building, that you are not as smart as collectively But in fact, if you are an engineer, that maybe more code or more features And some of you are actually like looking at your shoes, So the process we talk about to turn those hypotheses and customer development says We expect that your initial guesses, your initial hypotheses And that's going to be okay. But we're going to get you physically or virtually And we're going to as early as possible and you're going One is your assumption about what because when you started this company inside your head, you were going here, or if it's an entertainment product, Great. Let's see if someone other than you And if they did. Now we're going to test the second piece, solve that problem or need To answer your specific question, where feedback, increase really rapid at a scale But the same process also works It just means you physically need kiss your family goodbye, because you're Right now. And then spend a lot of time But even if it's Web mobile, that says you have invalidated Until you've seen potential customers, That is, unless you see them going right personally. Then all the market research stuff But unless you of course say grab you by the car until I have this app in my hands you really haven't gotten valid So do you. Do that in the open As people talk about for startups, Well, now the right way is the only way But the so. You must go through. Right through this door. Right? And it turns. Out but also for the National Science serious technology who you would think One of the mistakes assumes that what I want you to do your patents and your firmware That's not what we're talking if we're doing that, we're doing way too much talking and in fact, My suggestion is We're trying to do something And that's called listening. Right? And that's called asking questions needs are versus you trying to push look, Don't you think it's great? And how many will you buy rather. Than tell me about your problems, Or you know, gee, And so the customer development process how can I take all my IP and dump it on whether they like it? Is that. Yeah, So this is the two areas Like something like. You listen and ask. Good. And by the way, for an entrepreneur, listening is the hardest Especially, Imagine you just got funded Or even better, Sure. We love. It. So you now think. Your slide deck Right? Blessed by God. In fact, the only thing you. Need to change from your funding deck you now put it in a new slide Because this fine deck has been blessed, All you did was convince somebody who And they had gotten a good night's But you are you are now believing. All. You need to do. Fatal mistake is execute your plan. This is where startups go wrong. They believe All you need to do is hire people. And somehow, magically, World will unfold. Just per plan. We now know after 50 years So what's the culture issue Because I mean, one of my observations before I worked at Microsoft, and one of my observations is, is that, you know, the leadership culture the founders and the leaders and and It's not like being a parent, right? So the question the question I have you have to select some team members. You know, what? Is there a right number or wrong number? Are there strengths and weaknesses the right mix Because sure, you're. Talking about this notion which is terrific about sort of sort of place with your product So so talk about the culture in that So culture and people really do with customer development if you're a founder, you had to wake up in the morning and with a passion The bad news is, is that You're more than likely hallucinating. Rather. Than having a vision. But let's just worry for a second. You might actually be having a vision. And if you've seen. That burning bush, you're just convinced. That all you need to do is lead And you I'll take a left at, you know, 40 years later Is there needs to be a little voice that says, what if you're a rock? What if you're up? And because we're driven by passion, What I'm suggesting And I'll tell you how it usually plays out Instead, what you have, is the founder hires Then I'll. Get going. Go talk to those customers. Absolutely. And you know what they say, Daniel. This is the worst idea I've ever heard. And if you're. A great head of sales, Ten more just to make sure. And you come back to your CEO and And what's his first reaction? You're not listening. You're not explaining it. Right. Right. And something tells me Somebody like You're just you're just not accepted. They just don't get it. Right. Right. So then he'll send you out again. Yeah. You know, so we talk to the talk, It's worse. Now. In fact, I really do. And you come back again. Well, yeah, what is it now? Say, well. Get a new VP of sales. You bet. Yeah, sure. Nothing. He's blushing because he has all of this. Oh, I didn't even know this This guys are so heavy. And anybody else with this or this is a canonical model Now, let me. Tell you what I do. You're not allowed to hire a VP of sales. I agree with that right now. Now you go out as the founder. As the founder. I want you outside the building. Yeah, it was 20% of your time. And I want you talking to those customers. Yeah, this is frankly, If you haven't heard that. I mean, 20% of his time Listen to customers. Now, all of a sudden those customers And you know what? Because I have such a reality distortion Yeah. But then I talk to another five And slowly smoke is starting. To seep out of my ears. Yeah, because cognitive dissonance I either could think they're all idiots. And that I'm truly. The visionary, sir. Or wrong. So part of the process for customer no joke is the founder needs with a customer development team, and not think that all they need to do That's one idea about people. The second idea, and this goes back to what we learned And I used to make this all the time. Big company exec, VP, Oh, look, I can recruit them to my startup And whatever arm. You know, I've raised money from famous VC and almost 90% of the time they end up Right? Right. And it isn't because they're dumb. It isn't because, you know, It's just that what we have confused is that the titles, while the same the job specs are radically different. And we've never understood in a large company is executing A VP of sales on day one and a startup Has a series of guesses but does. Yeah, it. Is. I mean, in a way, what you're pointing out and it's at different milestones, right? That that individuals develop experience Because you're talking a lot about change coming into the system. So so what we now know and here's here's and what we've now come up with you would do, engineering would spec the product, first customer ship About that, right? Typical model. And somewhere around the alpha they bought into the revenue model from some VC firm and there it is. And all they need to do is execute it and they sign up for that plan. Product ships. It's in all the blogs, all the newspapers. It's exciting. The first board meeting, everybody's high sitting there. No one talks to her next board meeting. Now all of a sudden the board says, And she goes, Great Pipeline. Right now, not all of you are laughing. Pipeline means that it looks good, closing anything. But it was good. And depending on the economic climate, for either months or sometimes. A year or two. But one day you open the boardroom door but number one is you could smell the And two is no one is sitting next She's like by herself And three, truly, But they brought in a flaming sword. Right over her head. Yeah. And the minute she says Pipeline, and a new guy shows up. Now, this new view, by the. Way, this occurs every nine There's a VP of sales being fired. In fact, they don't realize they're hired. They actually have a bull's eye It's a bummer of a birthmark. Yeah, but this. Think about it. The second VP of sales is no dummy. They go, Well, this strategy didn't work. Or clearly I'm going to come up with a new strategy. The only time we would change strategy in an early stage Big idea. What we now understand is that startups actually go from failure And what we do is instead of firing It's a huge idea. Remember that business model? It's a very. Interesting one or more of those components And just one final go. It might be that It might be we picked the wrong channel, fit with the customers were wrong product We're wrong that is, We're probably going to get this wrong on the march So let me give you this, to get to this sentence, and that is What is a startup? And I finally came up with something A startup is a temporary organization designed to search for a scalable Now, if you just deconstruct as a temporary organization to pad and free food and whatever. But the goal is not to. Be a ten year old startup. In fact, There are a two year old startups attached Having a good time. I have to design to search, right? If you think about it, the dog's For several generations of dogs. Designed to search, or even get customers. It's to search for something We're looking for something without special, You know, every well, you put a dollar Right. And so what we're searching for Now you have something to walk out of here what I'm supposed to be doing. But now you've got that right. So how do. You grow it up? Because there's a challenge associated It's really more straightforward and important customer base around profitable small business, So there's something going on. How do you do that? Right. And that's the that's the secret memo that founders Okay. Oh, so it turns. Out that most founders liquidity of their own company Most of them get blown out, by their voices. And ironically, of course, the most successful tech Some of them had to be exiled for a while But others, like Bill Gates and Larry Ellison and Hastings and Dell, etc., But most everybody in between And here's the secret memo, Really goes through three phases. One is the search for the business model. Those are done by insanely crazy people where chaos is the norm right? You're searching for one thing. On one day Your strategy is here and here. By the way, founders actually have an edge here. That's their only time, It's true. Anybody walking around going, saying, if anybody It's the first time in your career Because because if you're a survivor you actually knew how to operate in chaos And by the way, as an aside, it's when it becomes successful. Because when it becomes repeatable And actually you have to create. Sounds like All right. So just as an aside. The next step. That little voice, that little voice is You don't get the memo about. If you're a venture funded company, to get venture capital. You see one VC, one venture capitalist What you don't understand lot for that board meeting, because they're sitting there and if they're super angels, they're They don't even know what city are. To figure out where your building is. But the day your company finds when you were thinking that you were going you know, hey, we found profitability, and actually handing out confetti They were going to give you up All of a sudden in that board meeting, in a way that's And the reason why is now all of a sudden from a startup who was worth nothing. You are now incredibly valuable to them if you're the executive to take them to to take them And the odds are they're saying Now that isn't going to work. And they tend to look for operating execs. And an operating exec is someone who knows and put in all the processes and the sales compensation plan and the I don't know, here's the deal or whatever. Now, again, there are some world class founders who managed to make that transition, And by the way, some VCs are just happy And while others actually are interested But none of them are ever going when you're taking their money because of you, they said. Oh, by the way, we're going to fire you. You know, you're going to the next firm Is looking out for their liquidity. Sure. And so the interesting thing to remember your interests are aligned Ironically, until you've found the. Profitable model Finally, the next step is from building and that may be the operating exact 2 million a year to 100 million a year, who actually is much better at building But there really to me are three phases Interesting. So I have a question nature of a successful founder, And because everybody here wants to be or are building a business show of hands, So you all want to be successful founders. So are there any things that And I'll toss something out You know, I would argue that there are not very many well-rounded Steve's already pointed out that if you're going to be successful, It's not a requirement. It's not a requirement. Some darn, I've got a yard. My parents do not. So with that in mind. You can build a well-rounded team, though. Yes. Right. And so part of that is being reflective So are there things, arms, metrics, to distill in your work and research some of the new things you're doing you know, And so how do they think of of building out the team How should a founder think about that? You know, I did eight startups One so deep it left its own iridium layer. That's and by the way, and that one felt just 100% So I believe their own press clippings, We're raising a ton of money. We were on the cover of Wired Was going downhill. But it was great. And, you know, like the guy jumping. And so my season, my 35th. How are you doing? Okay. Till now. Yeah. So that's how I felt. I felt great until, like, we went, oh, anybody wanted to buy. So, you know, even on the sales guys, And so, no, actually, I have to tell you, Yeah, I've been doing the entire evening. Let's go to the. When I cratered, I blew $35 money first, you know, like even I called up my mother. And who was a Russian immigrant, first generation American parents And I said, Mom, I lost $35 million. Here's what I said. And of course, she said, Well, Where did you. Mom, Mom, I, I spent it all. And then in Russian and Yiddish none of which I understood anymore. She said, Don't know. I She said, Do you have to pay it back? I said, No, I'm I'm the reason Is the venture capitalist Company, went off in a language I am, understand. So she finally went back and the English And I tell. This story to people or even different parts of the US, that the phrase we used for a failed entrepreneur in Silicon Valley And that's something about the American I mean, I know you have. A terrible time. Sure. And while you. Can have the same human beings but we operate in a spirit of that not talking about stealing the money experience, and you get multiple shots And so I forgot what your question was. It's more about, okay, so and and you want to you want to recognize So that's the core of the question. So so in fact, because your boss at Microsoft sure did this spectacularly well, Sure. Bill went through Right. Sucked them dry and then got another one And I don't mean You know, I do have some some experience And I'm not a student I've been there for a while, I worked at Apple and other places. And that's Yeah, more or less. Was the 4040 before the right. But John surely was the first and very important, that I want to come back to about data come from, from Tandy RadioShack of stores and lots of little teeny things And so they were clearly metrics and structure of the company And Bill clearly knew I wasn't there then, someone of that skill. And so John, by all accounts, Then there was another level of scaling He didn't sort of he didn't get used up. He maintained his rapport of bringing in Bob Herbold at one point was another where Microsoft's an interesting company not kind of a branded house like G.E. or a house of brands like Procter Gamble. It's a unique unto itself. Lots of different products. But, you know, an interesting company. And I think Bob, again, I think Bill was smart enough to know And that's the unique thing founders who stay on is that they They bring in that talent and they learn, after three or four or five years And so then the founder, and you can see this and rise to the top, They know how to move on And I thought. Bill Gates did a model was. Brilliant at it, no question about it. And then others need more total control and then can come back I think of Larry Who's the client or partner. Or relation came in. To save the company. Oracle clearly hit a wall model and financial issues, etc. And then Ray came in And then at another point, Ray was done and Larry still running the business So I think they're all like that. So I want to get back, though, to and the data, if you will, that can be important differentiators for a company And you with Epiphany in particular, had So if you want to talk about how founders about monitoring their metrics beyond the people culture stuff So, you know, in Web based not to be collecting data But but to me, the question is how And I tend to think of founders. World-Class Founders are running a pattern recognizer I just called a neural net and they're That is, this whole thing about customer how to get founders outside the building, standing in the parking lot. And for our customers, okay, And for a. While I had them About every customer meeting what I realized was it's and I apologize for any accountants this is not about a spreadsheet A successful business in an early stage or about the number of customers. It's about finding the it. Sometimes it's the outliers, it's and they said, Too bad you don't have X, and you kind of laugh And you say a million. Dollars And then you go back and say, can. I find some more of those people? Or, And so to me, Collecting but it's not just to collect the data. You're looking for something that's just And this goes back to some of the people don't talk about pattern record. You know, we talked about tenacious you're not curious and if you're not great at patterns, the odds are Join someone else's startup because There are some corner cases where you could find those, They thought it was. I'm over here on day one And that's where the businesses. That yeah, I've had personal experiences And it's absolutely the case tied to a particular moment in time product strategy can be blinded And what's really interesting is about of recognition, most founders take about a week or two until Right? I mean, that, you know, you go in and say, well, why does it come out not coming out of your. It's a belief system. You're changing it somehow. There's something In the back of your head going to force you to articulate Because when we say flash of insight you've seen, but it's somehow But we will get it out of you. And then when you're able to describe it MM So one. Other question in general and then I want to turn it over to Is all of this in the modern world, with, you know, say, compliance, privacy, So do you have any general observations issues and things like that Because sometimes people think the patent Yeah, I mean, you know, I deal with NSF, National Science Foundation I teach in Stanford Engineering School But the issue isn't about how smart The business is about who will pay a ton of money for it, So, you know, it's not just as a startup that it's different or Google or Facebook. But on day one, it's And in fact, for most engineers, is because if it was just about you're just going to need an extra room when people show up at your door. And for some reason it just doesn't happen Yeah. So what we're really looking for between your great technology Perfect. Well, great. I want to make sure So if anyone wants to start a queue around Great. Thank you. And I would like to remind our audience, that this is My name is Kevin O'Malley. I'm chairman of the Business Our program tonight, with Steve Blank in conversation And please step up to the microphones with And for to hear what you have to say. Ready to. Go? Is that the best question? Yes, it's the. First question. I've got a hypothesis I perfect. I'm John Wolpert. I'm one of the founders of Upstart Mobile, which we spun out of Best And in the taxi industry that we worked this was a very complicated that there's a bunch of customers Maybe this is the master graduate class of Lean startup is We found ourselves pivoting and pivoting I might ask you about pivot fatigue, until we discovered that really business model canvas into what we started where different lines of intent created. An interesting pattern we found a way through What would you say to that within the canvas and. Say, It sounds like time for you But, you know. One of the interesting things and then correct me if I'm wrong, there were multiple sides to the market, Right. And so, you know, a multi sided market means that Is the payer. The the canonical model is Google You're the user And what you see is a search bar. But that's not Google's business, right? The business is actually not you. It's a set of advertisers who have who. By the way, for Google AdWords Oh, and by the way, And so now all of a sudden, you to understand But I'll make it even worse, though. The taxi business might be the extreme Medical devices, I'm the customer. Oh, I'm the user. Well, wait a minute. There's the doctor. Okay, Well, women, There's a hospital. Oh, wait a minute. But who's the payer? Oh, Oh, okay. Well, Well, wait a minute. There's the FDA, there's regulatory, And then, you know, like there's about. Five or six moving parts. So some markets actually When you look at the canvas, But now you are color coding Each side of the market, each side revenue model, and might have its own And it's those intricacies and their influence with each other Was that correct? And so so just understanding the fact multiple sides to a market man, And if you were depending to kind of teach you about the other No, no. As you discovered, Does that exactly right And anything to do with government really Yeah. I mean, what in many ways, you know, it's it's So you have to chart this out in every corner Another question So I'm what I'm an idea guy, and my ideas have worked You know, I consulted I have one What pitfalls do I avoid? What? What are any tips about building I don't have an engineer at my side Does your product require engineering? Yes, very much. No, not really. Really sophisticated technology. I understand what tech can do. Um, and I'm also a generation beyond most people in the startup world, So let me start You know, I used to think entrepreneurship was about 2020 I mean, because that is the current, you know, perception And therefore But it turns out that the average age principal investigators were 48 years old And we got them talking to 100 customers They might die of a heart attack But but they are capable of moving as fast More experience So what is I think as Daniel was mentioning to me the average age was about 45 years The one is building a team and hearing you know, the first order bit, before you commit to lots of team and energy, etc., is start testing with people outside of your wife or your friends Now, by the way, mean that Truly, this is not an accounting problem, but you should be able to explain It might just be because it's a new market It's okay. But at least, you know, say, okay, let me So my my first piece of advice would be and then test from a wireframe to a PowerPoint of something called the minimal viable but the smallest possible that could get you learning and order, without going through And it could be that that needs to build the whole thing. I have yet to see that that's the only one And in fact, even in Fukushima, that isn't good enough. And we need some new good ones. Another question. I am Mark Risher, CEO of in Birmingham. I love your story about the VP of sales too quickly. But at the same time, I feel that is out there doing customer development, And I'm wondering about experiences if if Michael Dell is doing 20%, It's not actually 88, How can you scale that learning out, revenue too early, but at least so So and and again, I'm going to just remind It's not the way it's a way. Okay. And a way to think about this is what you, is to be the shock of what You're trying to validate. Yes. If you do X and on Y and Z and boom, What you're trying to figure out is business model. But now down to tactics, what's the And if you have a complicated sales not a VP of sales, Someone who actually might have been who's great at dealing with buyers that you could really start them off who doesn't want to be the VP of sales And then eventually, if you found you want to who's actually good at it, And I'm going to give you an example. I hired at Epiphany, my last company director of sales from Oracle Harvard I mean, literally, And this guy, Jay Larson, ended up to have And the reason why is we were like calling and we just got thrown out And I'm like, oh, and, you know, it's The. Car Go, Jay, Where are we going? He goes, We're going to make the next So, Jay, He said, That's We have fixed skins. I said, Well, don't you think No, we're going to make the next call. And so as he's driving, and I'm starting to type and he says, I said, Well, And the car almost goes off the road. You can't do that. I've memorized that presentation. That's right. That's the problem. Right, right there. My point is, you want somebody, even after you find to be flexible enough to understand there I don't know if I answered your question. Yeah, I would say one of the things you want to trust them, And if you if you don't get verification of what you believe in your belief system, Right? And here's and here's Anybody in the room? All right. This is the biggest mistake I don't know anything about sales, They have a great Rolodex. And, you know, You're out of business. You're truly out of business because unless you have gotten out of the building And Ben. And by the way, I could train Who the difference between an introvert when I get them is whether they're And by the time I'm done with them, Make eye contact. So I could teach anybody to do how to talk to customers new VP of Sales says, You know, I'm just an engineer, Oops. Yeah. Oops. Right. Very, very good. Hi, my name is Paul, and my co-founder and I are building a product selling to businesses, we can't learn a lot more right now by putting it in unpaid or unpaid. Excuse me, a user's hands, you know. So can you validate the that you're solving that people are going to be willing to pay Yeah, it well, Microsoft. No, no, no, no, no, no. I'm not going to. I'm not. I'm not. It does nothing to do with Microsoft. It's something that we just did recently which is I think if you talk to Yammer, there you go. I mean. The model wants to drive viral usage to drive paying customers. And and there's something to be said for figuring out and interacting and then providing a set of services. going to speak to their model, And I think, you know, it So you can do it in the open. So Steve, You know, I mean, you're digging yourself No, no, it's not a hole. It's a good thing. It is a good thing. And and not to. Be facetious, I mean, there are cases where you could actually use For a B2B sale. I just. I'm somewhat old school in B2B in, like, who's going to be paying And if you can't get anybody spend time inside the organization, it's And so if you do a freemium model for B2B, to be spending the time figuring out who's the user, And by the way, in businesses, there's always a saboteur So I've been out on the org chart. They're not only after whose job is of new product threat, right? And they'll do anything to keep you out. And so you need to understand And I call it the order of battle, right? The order battle is different You need to understand the chart, to who and what order do you need Your job as the founder is to understand so when you push the There and I think that's very available Now. The question. Hi, I'm doing some work with a company and they've developed really well. So they they came up with a product, they've built a market and they have They come out with their second product. They've thrown it into the same business And if you look at the business model see why so big companies But what happens if you're a big company a small company? Microsoft How does that work? Sure. I mean, you have market context. You have to operate within. Right. Any large company and Christiansen's books are probably the best are trapped by you know, the approach to engaging your next generation business has to be factored in to, you know, how So in the case of Microsoft, is tied to 700,000 other entities who do things with the products, add value on top of the databases, install So the new new models, right as you move and a services architecture software and then a services architecture we do have to have a long term view, the CEO's job to figure out the timing It's a big pivot, if you will, for a shop But any successful going And as the market context changes a key driver in that change, It removes distance, it removes time, And so there are fundamental And if you're not paying attention to them and rate moments, which for a large You know. 60, $70 billion company, during And so that's certainly the case. So every company, the size and scale of the business will dictate And the smallest ones, as Steve has been pointing out, all night how quickly can you do it effectively in Works Well, let me explain than it is in a startup. Oh, for sure. Because you fired all the crazy people, Right. Oh, they. Are. They are. In fact, that's the Google Facebook Right? And every company goes through. Is they went home rich or the other ones And this is not anybody doing anything But in fact how large companies succeed That is, people who are comfortable oriented, doing the same thing selling McDonald's scales and Wal-Marts, people in the back of every McDonald's Like, Hey, let's try tacos today. Yeah, or maybe a Walmart. Hey, let's show everything. Go I mean, you know, it might be fun, You and maybe chemicals were involved But the point is. Truly in a existing company, it's not just we need to find new markets in place and people in place And now you're asking them So now I need you to be creative. And it's not like, What's that? This isn't an intelligence test, in execution. Does that. That's right. And it is an incredibly interesting And small companies Hi, my name is Jim Banducci, author of Corporate Imagination Huge ideas delivered humorously. Wonderful I have a question. You or me? You. I have. I have a question to Dan. Sure. Could you tell us a few secrets developing these emerging strategy Hey, I'm for this. No, no, no. I am after All right. So it's a. You know, it. Doesn't you were rocket science. That was one of your companies, Steve. So it's a partner. Built and driven ecosystem And so it's the evolution of that process It happens to be the work that I do. Talk about the innovation Do is on a global basis, our business is license software. The core of our PNL in a company to software, whether it's Windows on a PC to deploy all of our software and servers The world is moving rapidly to service billions of dollars of market cap being purchased $4 billion plus So we engage the entrepreneur through a set of outreach programs. It starts with students where they dream Dream Spark. It's a program and in a way that is noncommercial, and we have an Imagine cup, you can find it on the web that participate in a global contest, They solve global millennium style and health And then we have a program and we just let young companies old businesses use our technology at no All they can eat. And there are communities of others, small business administrations who participate, and helping these And we have a set of innovation centers. They're called Microsoft around the world of which there are 100, And they're all unique to their So it's not commercial for Microsoft, itself has to look at its core, and then how to engage those communities successful So that's what we're doing. I've been in various cities even directly related to Microsoft finding Right. And and this isn't an ad, it's What we call the rising. Tide of users of technology cream stores or health care And we just and sort of the global opportunity young people, but not always to people The technology is the essential enabler And so we do well when those things occur. So that's what we're working on. Good. Unfortunately, tonight where we have time I would like to remind our audience, this is the Commonwealth Club How to build a great company step by step When turned over to an audience member to come back to Daniel and Steve, Daniel Great. This park program, I'm actually a member User Group, so thank you. Great job. Definitely wonderful program. I run a Bismarck startup and we make and we started off with one early customer built that product around that customer And now we're getting out of the building to other customers and everyone says, Wow, It'd be great for our business, So we're obviously scratching our heads. We are trying to be flexible in the trying to validate But right now Again with that moment. And what should we do next? Well, we're glad you asked that question. I'd be happy to talk to you offline. And I know Steve might have a comment. So, you know, one of the worst things a startup is getting thrown You know, you'd rather people but the you know, this is nice and whatever, but you like It's they love the product is so great. So the answer is they don't. Look right and Yeah. So, so, so. So let me just tell you The shorthand is you're looking what pain you're solving and what gain And if you can't tell me that, and here's what I've heard people tell me are not pains number one through 49, but people tend to buy to solve their top So the fact that somebody said it was nice where does this rank in the pain And if they say, Oh, it's the top three, than you've been clearly and say, And you go one, Empty it out. I'll put the money in an envelope and I get to keep this. Oh, I can't do that. Good. Now let's have a conversation of why not. And so you're. And I'm not being facetious here. You're being too nice of a guy. And this doesn't have to be Right. You've got to be a little more aggressive, you know, trying to understand Because you're getting a lot of smiles Don't feel bad. It happens to everybody You know, if I could cash in those smiles, But I'm going broke right now. Does that answer. Your question or not? Right. So. So you need to I mean, literally, I didn't do this all night, right here. I'm going to give you this one Come on. Is this the most. Most in the game? And I know right from You can buy me a cup of coffee. But no, no, I'll buy you the coffee Okay? All right. Great. Thanks. Very good. Thank you very. Much. Our program tonight, Going to ask Daniel first to just Just can you guess give us one or two 140 characters easily done. So all of this is is, which is your business is 10% and 90% what you do And what you need to do is in the book. So this is where I'm supposed to say. And then you use Microsoft software, I got him to say even better. And so my 440 characters, But truly, if you take away there are no facts inside your building, So I do. And we'll see you there. Yeah. I give I'd like to thank our speakers Daniel Lewin. I would like to thank our audience here I'd like to thank our audience And with that we're closed this program celebrating over 100 years of enlightened