Hi, I'm Rick Steves, enjoying more of And this time, we're exploring Italy's and somewhere along here, we're going to find Thanks for joining us. Just south of Naples are some of Italy's Along a breathtaking coastline, ancient ruins, and enchanting Long the haunt of celebrities, the allure of Sorrento is still a hit We'll start with the southern taste traditional Italian food with a playful flair, drive along the dramatic enjoying its cliffside towns, and we'll stroll in the shadow and take a cruise with its romantic Blue Grotto. In the south of Europe, Italy juts into The coast is filled with temptations. From our home base in Sorrento, stopping in the towns After visiting the temples we sail to the Isle of Capri. Wedged on a ledge under the mountains spritzed by lemon Sorrento is of 20,000 residents, as many tourists. Serene Sorrento is well located, both as a springboard and as a fine place While just an hour south the Sorrentines to create a completely safe for tourists to come, relax, While the town's hot and mobbed with tourists we're here in mid-April. The weather's comfortable, and most of those enjoying are locals. Sorrento goes back In fact, the word &quot;Sorrento&quot; comes from the Greek word On his legendary Odyssey, and he overcame of the seductive sirens. In doing so, he opened up To the ancient Greeks, places like Sorrento The town's original running east-west and north-south for the prevailing While the breeze is welcome even in ancient times, of locals complaining Sorrento's back streets at both its long history This 13th-century palace It had no balconies Tiny shrines decorate walls The Catholic faithful in the hopes that she'll Italians venerate Mary, and Italian men Even so, Italian men have built women-free zones. Here at the Sorrento Men's Club, play cards and gossip under a historic emblem and a frescoed While originally a place today, this is the club Strictly no women, From the old center, to the Marina Grande, Just before reaching the harbor, you pass through a reminder that Marina Grande with its own proud residents. It's said even their cats Sorrentines believe that, was locked outside the fortified Marina Grande dwellers descend from Saracen, Sorrentines still scare &quot;Behave, or the Turks Today, there's just not much about the &quot;Turks&quot; [ Speaking Italian ] The port's economy on its colorful fishing fleet, and more recently, The family-run gets its seafood Enticing dishes to hungry locals Salute. Steves: Around here, lemons are everywhere. Every other shop Stores bottle and they're generous with samples. When it comes to fruit stands On the Amalfi Coast, there is always in this land where there's more In Sorrento, Tell me about your lemons. These are typical lemons That's... Is the fur. Oh, that's nice. With this, I can smell the limoncello. Okay, This big one is Cedro. This we heat with and salt near the fish. So with the dinner, Yes. Yes. Very nice. Bye-bye. Ciao. Steves: Surprising visitors, is an inviting lemon grove. An abundant orchard provides with a fragrant At the rustic shop, cap your visit with a taste of limoncello. While there are plenty many hotels offer travelers Our Hotel Minerva is like with a spectacular terrace and a small, This place provides an efficient lobby and inviting lounge, and a simple room and great view. During the peak season, many resort hotels That means you must buy It's a reasonable policy, designed to keep but I prefer a hotel one that leaves meals optional so I'm free to go out and find And tonight, that restaurant Once the cellar today, it's a small, serving delightfully presented, They showcase good wine In the state-of-the-art kitchen, the chefs pride themselves towards traditional In my guidebooks, I strive to list places Il Buco's owner, Peppe, designs his menu and he lovingly explains Peppe: Generally, but we want to play We make a little distraction with some pasta Just forgive the idea to use your finger -- clean the clams, put the hand, Buon appetito. Yeah. [ Laughs ] Steves: And during a balmy the streets are filled with people enjoying For many, is a regular part Gelateria Davide is sure to have Peruse the mouthwatering Grazie. Ciao. Ciao. This isn't a festival, a celebration of community With all this action who wants to go home? Sorrento is the ideal home base for exploring Tourists line up each morning, packing the buses which make But this is a case like Raffaele Monetti, Time for a trip Yes. Steves: But, especially when you factor in and the frustration and expensive bit of Italian a day with your own driver Yes. The Amalfi Coast in-love-with-life Italy With its breathtaking scenery, dramatically perched and historic ruins, the Amalfi is Italy's coast Whether you ride the bus the trip south from Sorrento is one of You'll gain respect for the Italian engineers and even more respect for [ Horn honks ] Cantilevered hotels and villas cling to the vertical terrain, and beautiful, sandy coves As you hyperventilate, notice how the Mediterranean Traffic is so heavy are only allowed Even so, because of the narrow expect some delays... [ Speaking Italian ] And enjoy the show. Beautiful. Monetti: This road It is about 750 years? For make this road, from Sorrento Specializing in scenery, the resort town of Positano hangs on the most spectacular Only one street in Positano the rest Because bus access is so limited and hotels don't take the town -- has been spared the impact The village is squished with narrow that cascade down The skyline looks like it did strict building codes The town's shallow rooftop These provide insulation -- cool in summer, Positano's steep lanes for the 4,000 hearty residents. It's a pleasant gathering galleries, and boutiques. There's little window-shop, and enjoy the beach and views -- and that's exactly the way The beach is a relaxed scene. Boats shuttle visitors young Romeos And the cafe crowd There's really no way that come with To save a few steps, I enjoy the efficiency of having You can buy a cheap one here or bring one that I'm ready to head on, to just give him a call Many of the best are just south of Positano. You'll see several built to warn of Turkish, The towers, from the Saracens' time. The Saracen pirates? So there's 30 of these Yes. Because they needed just to tell that the Saracens So it was a warning Yes, just a warning. And they warned with a fire So every tower Oh, so, like, very fast, you could spread the word Yes, and all the people, Run away from the pirates. Run away, yes. The Amalfi Coast After Rome fell, Amalfi emerged Innocuous as it looks today, in its 10th-century heyday, Amalfi was a maritime power. With a trading fleet it competed The Republic of Amalfi It even established the basics of which But in 1343, this little powerhouse This disaster, left Amalfi a humble backwater. Today, the shipyards, where its powerful galleys house tourist shops and the former glory is remembered on this tiled map. But tourists seem oblivious They're here to enjoy the good Today, the town and boasts a cathedral grander than a town of 7,000 The church's imposing stairway provides an ideal hangout Its fanciful facade dating only from But this bronze door given to Amalfi who had it made The cathedral Behind its fine a painting shows St. Andrew martyred on an x-shaped cross. And St. Andrew himself Holy relics were sources Like Venice needed to get on the pilgrimage map, Amalfi got St. Andrew -- one of the apostles to join the original St. Andrew's remains from Constantinople That's an indication of the wealth and the importance St. Andrew is near and dear because he's credited from certain back in the 1500s Just when a horrible attack a freak storm hit and the pirate ship This plank is all that remains This and other treasures are well displayed The Angevin Mitre, with a pavement of tiny pearls has been worn by bishops The Cloister of Paradise as well as evocative place Its graceful columns as this was the cemetery The bell tower, a regional specialty -- stands high Just south of the Amalfi Coast of the rich history While many travel to see Greek ruins, just south of here, you can see Remember, southern Italy was called Magna Grecia, And the wonders of that can be well appreciated The town was founded by Greeks The Romans conquered it in But the final conquerors malaria-carrying mosquitoes, kept the site for nearly a thousand years. The striking setting includes the remains the lonely Temple of Ceres. The almost delicate to the Greek goddess And the highlight, is simply breathtaking. Constructed in 450 B.C., it's a textbook example As well preserved and beautiful this huge structure is a tribute to Greek engineering For a great day-trip from Naples, Positano, catch the early morning The Isle of Capri as the vacation hideaway In the 19th century, it was the haunt on their grand tour of Europe. While the island is small -- there's plenty to see and do. To get the most I'm meeting my friend Roberta Mazzarella. Our first stop is the reason to enter The Blue Grotto experience is Getting there, getting in, is a scenic hoot. You enjoy a fast cruise partway around seeing bird life all under dramatic So most of the Isle of Capri Limestone cliffs straight down into Look at this cliff. From the water Roman emperors loved this because it was easy Steves: Arriving at the mouth you find a busy As the tourist-laden awaiting dinghies converge, and visitors clamber gingerly The entry hole is small. If the water's too rough, dinghies can't get in, We're lucky today. There's a little chop, The raffish rowers jostle Tourists scrunch down safely And the guides pull on the cable at the low point to squeeze you Inside the 60-yard-long cave, the sun reflects giving the grotto [ Man singing &quot;'O Sole Mio&quot; ] Your man rows you around, sings a little &quot;'O Sole Mio,&quot; and lets you enjoy the iridescent magic Capri, the largest sits in a saddle above the port. Piazza Umberto of this cute and touristy The main drag is nicknamed for its exclusive boutiques. While prices are steep, the window shopping is free. These days, Capri can be packed with gawky visitors searching for and finding only their prices. But other times of year -- it provides a relaxing At the edge of town, elegant villas are strategically placed On glitzy Capri, Taxis are white convertibles. Though expensive, an unforgettable part The island's second town, has fewer tourists, and a passion for These are We can see them in Napoli, on the Amalfi Coast, on the domes of the churches, on decorating Steves: And squares like this one. What's make the colors, Steves: The town's celebrated has a remarkable Majolica floor in a classic 18th-century Ironically, the church's floor that pews for worshippers are replaced by The entire floor featuring a sword-wielding angel driving Adam and Eve The devil is wrapped around laden with The animals, with curiously seem blissfully ignorant For expansive island views, to the top of Monte Solaro, You'll float over lush orchards At the summit, you'll enjoy of both the Italian mainland and the Isle of Capri. Cliffs are busy with birds, enjoying a little R&amp;R break tending scenic nests, and soaring The Faraglioni Rocks with tour boats squeezing And from here, It's clear to me chose this island and why today, include the Amalfi Coast Thanks for joining us. Until next time, Ciao.