It's all about learning. If you think you have reached the highest level, you will stop evolving. We want to make things as good as possible. Among the Japanese traditional swords, the Katana has the longest tradition. And that's what we want to protect. I'm already quite old, and I could just quit working. But when it comes to swords, I still want to keep making more. (laugh) We'll be off paying a little visit to the shrine now. A lot of people use swords as a talisman for household protection. They are divine items. That's why we hung up shrine ropes in our workshop. We'll now start the fire by striking an iron rod. Back in the days, blacksmiths would light their fires like this. And back then, they used this to blow the air that starts and keeps the fire going. We put No. 2 Tamahagane into the fire. We heat it up and hammer it. The temperature is around 1,300 degrees, where the air fires it up. We've reached the ideal thicknesses, so now we'll do the hardening process. Next, we'll break it into small pieces. You can cut glass with these broken corners. You see this? The knife iron is made of one piece of molten iron, so grains like this don't appear. This is a collection of grains, so it will come out like this. Now to the 4th step. The crushed material is piled on a lever called a &quot;Tsumi-wakashi&quot;. Now I'll cover it with this. This is clay mud. When applied to iron, it prevents the iron from oxidizing or melting in a strange way. Plus it has the power to suck out impurities. These are straw ashes. This prevents heat retention and oxidation. Now to the 5th step. We create a slit and fold it. Now we will create a vacuum explosion called 'water hammer', to remove impurities. I'm going to fold it now. We'll do this about 15 to 20 times, folding and forging until the iron is clean. We've got a lot of people! It's good! The repetition is over. This will be the part that will be the outside layer. We'll make it by folding. We use this to bend them. Now I'm going to bend this one. This is the sword's core iron, the soft iron that is placed in the middle of the sword. It's for strength. We boil these and stick them together. The color of the fire changes to yellow. That means that the iron is boiling. I take it out and cut it again with a plunger. We have to detach the front part. This is the part for the handle. It's called &quot;Nakago.&quot; Next, we will hammer the blade. I'm just tapping it a little and fixing small bends. I use sand paper and scrape it to make minor corrections. Some parts are hollow and some parts are high, so I have to visually check thoroughly. I will now paint it to make the blade pattern, called 'hamon'. This is also to create areas that will be burned and areas that will not. This is what it looks like after it's been coated with burnt blade clay and dried. Now we're going to do the hardening process. This is what puts the soul into the sword. I'll adjust the burnished edge with a whetstone. There are different types of grinding stones, and this one is softer. This one makes the blade pattern more visible. This is how the blade pattern is coming out. This is rust-proofing water. It's a little bend, so I'll straighten it out. Once the bend is aligned and the details are adjusted, the sword is handed over to a sharpener and sheathe maker. Sharpeners are usually trained for more than 10 years. This is what it looks like after sharpening. To us in Japan, back in the days, swords were referred to as 'man slayer knives' but even with that reputation, they were also used as talismans for household safety. Swords are divine items. They don't exist to kill people, but to protect oneself. We create swords to protect traditions, and knives to protect our livelihood. Every sword has a soul of its own. The swords we craft are the same as those that were used by Samurai back in the days, and were called 'the soul of the Samurai'. They are the same. The same type of blade. And our clan started creating especially sharp knives, using the same techniques as for making swords. Among the Japanese traditional swords, the Katana has the longest tradition. And that's what we want to protect.