This player traveled through 30 million blocks months to complete. Along the way, this player world downloaded much more. Why did this player torture himself? What was his goal? We'll review this data, showing many interesting bases. This story begins around the beginning of After watching videos about it, a player named +X world border, so he bought priority queue Throughout his time on the server, he would intrigued as to who had built them. The more he researched, the more he got accustomed and eventually reached the X+ world border. He found a base with a mix of regular players Gurus who had finished extending the +X highway there. By 2022, _xque had explored all eight world was AFKable. With all of the 1.19 testings and an Elytra be gone when the server updates, he had an all of the monuments and borders in their them in their 1.12 state? He would contact a player named Terbin, a in the world downloads, which Terbin was, The method for this project changed as time accounts for traveling; however, given that manual input to go to the overworld and download feasible. He alternated between his accounts and those and with two accounts, _xque started flying diagonal on the other. He did this because diagonal flight speed of straight highways, allowing him to not to monitoring two straight highways instead. The project officially started on June 12, On the -X highway, _xque made it to around IronException, another Archivist and World themselves. Originally, _xque was against this due to thinking about it, he realized the potential will be revealed later. He quickly realized that diagonals would take highway was finished in a day, whereas the At this point, he opted to complete the straight Three straight highways were done in five few days later and then started on the - - highway, Up next were +X and Z and +X and -Z highways. _xque started at a good pace. However, on June 23, disaster struck. Terbin, who had shown interest in the project, and mentioned that he should ensure wither by default. When _xque went to check, to his dismay, it At this point, he had already completed 5 That, combined with the burnout of doing nothing his joining the group's Spawn Builders Association was put on hold. About a month later, on July 27, _xque stumbled and seeing the exported data on what he had motivation to continue the project. He contacted a player named Negative_Entropy, SpawnMasons. _xque asked him what program they used to signs, and he mentioned a program called SaveSearcher This program scans world files for blocks to a spreadsheet. He picked up where he stopped and set off This was probably the worst part of the project sized and couldn't be AFK'd. After completing those, all that was left the end of the downloading. The analysis side was quite simple but also SaveSearcher can scan an entire world for file. An example command for SaveSearcher would This command scans the -X highway's Nether exports the results to a spreadsheet file. _xque ran commands to scan for the information to get the total numbers. It was easy for basics such as signs, withers, when it came to searching for shulker boxes, highway for all shulker boxes, he had to add This would result in 17 different spreadsheets A player named THCFree helped by creating through the results much more accessible. After around a week of scanning, filtering, of just over 100 GB with 148,259 files, we Since each nether highway was downloaded to each highway's average file size. Each straight highway had an average of 8.54 GB. Withers are a nuisance on the highways if next part might be valuable information if There are over 2,800 withers throughout the named Mad_King_Lambo. The +X highway has the most withers with 1,586, There are over 18,000 signs throughout the the most with 2,807 signs total and the +X total. The top three players with the most signs with 314 signs, and Dragonf00d with 163 signs. However, since 2b2t is an ever-changing server, consider CodySmile11 to most likely have the But they are usually close to spawn range signs. Since _xque downloaded all monuments, we can But anyone can put a fake year on a sign, owing to an NBT change in Minecraft version and as 2b2t updated to 1.9 on April 1, 2016, can be validated. Luckily, the SaveSearcher mod has an option of just the text values - this makes it and colored ones, too. If the NBT data has {&quot;extra&quot;: it's after 1.9, After filtering through the data, _xque found dating back to 2018 from a well-known player &quot;dooooop?&quot;. As for signs with pre-1.9 NBT formatting, have the older data. These signs are in the overworld that says At first glance, this may not sound interesting. However, after _xque hopped onto Terbin's he found that the signs were at a base founded named AwesomeGuyMonkey. I made a video about this base, and I'll leave There are over 16,500 ender chests on the The +X has the most, with 3,285 ender chests, chests. _xque tried finding out how many nether portals Still, you can't get a specific number of as it can only scan for portal blocks, not SaveSearcher will scan for all portal blocks by 6, which is the number of portal blocks There are a total of 257,331 portal blocks. Dividing that by six will give you 42,888.5 and doesn't account for if players made larger So it's safe to assume there are over 40,000 This data combined will help players who want base hunters. _xque made a spreadsheet combining all this interaction. In order of popularity, the +X highway has with the least populated being the +X -Z highway, Let's say you're a player who wants to build Since the X+ highway is the most popular, highways since all diagonals are the least The best diagonal would be to travel on the However, once this video is released, this the highways, so I would pick a random diagonal After that, travel for at least 200,000 blocks in the overworld - the farther you go, the Now that you are far out, you must pick an This can either be your X or Z coordinate. There will no longer be any highways to follow, You should ensure not to leave any tracks that were not placed back, so that base hunters Again, the farther out you go, the less likely stopped at 200,000 blocks on the diagonal the same. Once you traveled off-axis, let's say you your coordinates should look like X: 200,000 Now that you have found a spot in the Nether, new home. If you want to make it even harder for players to the nether portal and break it, making Notice that I said nearly impossible? I asked base hunters/explorers Raaanch and the 1.19 update, and they said this. Base hunting has taken a massive blow after Methods and strategies that players had been Vanilla flight using Elytra and fireworks the most reliable means of travel. Still, new modules are also coming out, like client and Rusherhack and requires no fireworks. Some private clients allow players to fly how it works now. A public &quot;new chunks&quot; module uses copper ore vs. 1.19 chunks. But thin trails where players initially skipped nearly impossible to follow now, especially travel. Lastly, there is no known method of seeing impossible to find them if they don't modify For already built bases, the best advice I Recently, there has been a powerful coordinate bases in 1.12 chunks are compromised. A player named EnigmA_008 made a Reddit post Rumors about a potential coordinate exploit Munmap and 1248_test_user showing up at different For months, the accounts mainly went sightseeing However, these accounts targeted shop stashes 1.19, this exploit was patched. I might make a more detailed video about this I'll leave a link to the highway report if comments what information you learned was