Dracula is one of the most enduring movie characters in history, And each version has his own unique qualities. From the 1920s to the modern-day, Let's take a look at some of his most notable iterations... Animated! In Nosferatu, Count Dracula ah - oops - I mean Orlok wears a long button-up jacket, Has bushy eyebrows, sharp front teeth, pointed ears, and long unruly fingernails. He also occasionally sports a plump hat. He can become invisible, Turn into a hyena, and control a mischief of diseased rats, Although a sunny window can easily wipe him out. In the 1931 Universal film, a better-dressed Dracula would appear, Donning his signature medallion, slicked hair, occasional top hat, and iconic cape, Which - despite action figures depicting as red - was actually grey in tone. This Drac has the ability to turn into an ugly bat and a wolf, Although the wolf never appears on camera. He aims to kidnap a new disciple, but after laying down for a quick nap, He gets a wooden stake through the heart. Despite this setback, A plethora of films would follow in the series - but that's a story for another day. In Hammer's Horror of Dracula, a taller Dracula would make his debut. He rocks a black suit with a matching black cape, although in the sequels a red cape liner would be added. He lacks the ability to shape-shift, but is seemingly irresistible to women. That is until he's provoked, and his eyes become bloodshot and his sharp fangs are revealed. Although this Drac is taken down by a makeshift cross, this series would continue for 8 more films - but we won't get into that right now. In Billy The Kid Vs. Dracula, Drac sports an oversized bow-tie, puffy cuffs, A top hat, a devilish goatee, and his cape has a fluffy collar. He's also fully immune to the sun, is able to turn into a fake-looking bat and - like Nosferatu - can turn invisible. In this film, he usurps Billy The Kids fiancee, only to be knocked out and staked with a metal spike. In Blacula, Count Dracula sports a blue military-style coat, ruffled jabot, And a black cape with a grey liner. But this film focuses on Prince Mamuwalde, Who attempts to partner with Dracula to end the slave trade, Only for the count to turn him into the undead, dub him Blacula, and lock him away. 200 years later, when he awakens Blacula tosses on the count's cape and - when in attack-mode - he appears more sickly and grows bushy facial hair. He searches for his lover reincarnated, but when she is slain, he commits sun-icide. However, in the sequel, he's brought back to life by magical Voodoo. This time, his bow is less droopy, his lapel more triangular, and his cape has a maroon liner. He employs a Voodoo practitioner to rid him of his vampirism, But she instead turns on him. In Bram Stoker's Dracula, Dracula dons red armour to fight in battle, But returns to find his lover dead, causing him to renounce God - which apparently turns him immortal. 400 years later, he rocks a red robe with artistic dragons on the side While wearing his hair in a double bee-hive style, and is also seen in a gold patterned robe. Furthermore, after a delicious meal, this Drac takes on a younger appearance. His more youthful attire consists of a grey suit with a fancy top hat, an all-black variation, a cream-coloured suit, and a military-style uniform. He's also capable of transforming into a green mist, a wolf-like creature, a regular wolf, a man-bat, and a group of rats. In addition, he can withstand sunlight, command the weather, control animals, and also force push. Despite this variety of skills, he is ultimately sliced and stabbed, And then finally shown peace by his lover-reincarnated. In 2004's Van Helsing, Dracula sports a long coat, heeled boots, earrings, A ponytail, and sometimes a bulky cloak, as well as a golden masquerade disguise. He's also able to transform into a bat creature with giant wings and a beautiful mane. He has hundreds of vampire offspring, but his happy family is interrupted by Werewolf Van Helsing - who just so happens to be the one creature that can defeat Dracula. But this is, of course, just a sampling of the bloodsucker, who appears in over 200 films. What's your favourite interpretation of Dracula? Let us know so we can follow up with another Dracula Animation in the future. Thank you for liking, commenting and subscribing. As always, big shout out to the wonderful patrons. What other classic monsters would you like to see animated? Check out some of the other evolutions available for your viewing pleasure, and subscribe for more.