Welcome to Hawaii! This collection of islands most beautiful, natural scenery you can find. tropical climate, ocean views, and tourist history that shouldn't be overlooked. Join the bad that make up this Paradise of the Welcome to That Was History, I'm your host of Hawaii, let's go way back to when the islands with the first human settlements on the Hawaiian when they arrived. Some records suggest they it might have been as early as 124 A.D. Or this is where Hawaii's native culture comes people group that inhabit the more than 1,000 As you can see, Hawaii sits at the tip of For hundreds of years, the Polynesian people During this time, Hawaii was composed of multiple would develop their own laws, social structure, be forever changed after European explorer, Hawaiian Islands in January of 1778. Cook natives for a short time, which came in handy Unfortunately, this relationship would come of 1779. Due to bad weather, Cook's crew repairs. While there, native Hawaiians stole Cook tried to kidnap the supreme leader an angry crowd developed that would catch to his actions. Did you happen to catch that of being killed on Valentine's Day. Tough death, the supreme ruler's nephew, Kamehameha of Hawaii. If his name reminds you of Dragon said that the Kamehameha finishing attack Hawaiian King. There is some debate among or coincidence, so I'll let you be the judge. official unification year of the islands under I's rule, the legal system of Hawaii was States of America began. He would only live celebrated to this day. June 11th is Kamehameha culture. This holiday was first proclaimed recognized by the United States. Hawaii's I bring him up is because he died only 5 years took a trip to England in 1824 and they both me to my next point. The rise of European the native population. When Captain Cook first 300,000. By the 1850's, they were in the This is all too similar to what happened to in North America, but why did immigrants decide were curiosity and protestant missionaries, Hey guys... that's supposed to be sugar, not good? Ok, let's do it from the top. The biggest Not only would Sugarcane encourage immigration behind the natives losing control of their Hooper of Massachusetts was able to lease III in order to grow sugarcane. Give it thirty on the four largest islands. In today's scenario. The Kingdom of Hawaii had land of economy by leasing it to plantation owners. owners, who are from other countries, decide They began putting pressure on the king to this means they wanted to completely own the an odd concept to the Hawaiian people who All of this pressure on the king is going The 1840 Constitution of the Kingdom of Hawaii. monarchy," and stated that the land belonged king. That doesn't sound so bad, BUT, it's created executive, legislative, and judicial going to backfire HARD within 10 years. The consist of an upper "House of Nobles" The House of Nobles was made up of Hawaiian Members of the lower House of Representatives but when I say "people" here, I mean everybody; Constitution did allow for more political not grant private land ownership which obviously that there was even a five month period in British took over and occupied Hawaii due subjects on the islands were being denied the end, the Kingdom of Hawaii regained its agreeing to provide British immigrants with Affair, that Kamehameha III finally responded Mahele on March 7th of 1848. This was the split Hawaii into thirds. One-third went to to chiefs and managers, and the last third when I said that the changes of the 1840 Constitution king's legislative cabinet was being dominated seats. This allowed for two very important to strip Hawaii away from the natives. On the Alien Land Ownership Act which allowed Just under a month later, the Kuleana Act for commoners to petition for title to land mentioned before, the native Hawaiians did ownership and didn't see a need to claim were given two years to make their claims is the fact that many of those that DID claim disease and property taxes. This means that would own the majority of the land. Before Constitution of the Kingdom of Hawaii would branch calling the first constitution from would continue to add elements of democracy the House of Representatives for example, king. Kamehameha IV would feel the effects rule from 1855 to 1863. While king, his objective had in Hawaii. The United States had their felt it was necessary to protect their west in the works prior to Kamehameha IV's rule. mean the end of the monarchy and of the Hawaiian ended up proposing a reciprocity treaty that and the United States. An agreement was never Hawaii's reliance on American trade. He and aligned himself more with the United Kingdom. of the British royal adviser that served Kamehameha they named Prince Albert Edward after Albert King Edward VII. Along with all of this, Queen godmother in 1862. Tragically, the little and died at the age of 4. Kamehameha IV tried with Britain and other European governments, having never completed the deals he had hoped achieve during his reign was improved healthcare his healthcare plan through the government, typical "stick it to the man" fashion, businessmen and residents to fund the plan. Queen's Hospital. This hospital still operates Center. Due to the death of Prince Albert, brother, who, as you can probably guess, became 1872, and fought to bring power back to the he said that the Hawaiian Constitution from that constitution, he opted to draft a completely in July of 1864 where delegates were elected king met some resistance from the delegates it as well. To achieve his agenda, Kamehameha the 1864 Constitution of the Kingdom of Hawaii this constitution include combining the House into a single body known as the Legislative that had been in place since the days of Kamehameha 1840 that forced them to pass a literacy test King, Kamehameha V also made the traditional legal again. He also vetoed a bill in 1865 to native Hawaiians by saying, "I will never to the previous king, Americans considered people of the kingdom considered him to be V died in December of 1872 without naming constitution, an election was held and the cousin, William Charles Lunalilo as the next first elected king. That's probably the he died from tuberculosis just over a year had plans to revert a lot of the constitutional obviously didn't have enough time to see as the next ruler of the Hawaiian kingdom the widow of Kamehameha IV. Many believed but King Lunalilo never made her his official Honolulu Courthouse Riot on Kalakaua's attacked and injured 13 legislators who supported that were docked in Hawaii had to get involved the king was able to get the United States Treaty of 1875. This treaty removed import into the United States. The most important not tax American-produced goods coming into to develop any similar treaties with other fair agreement given the fact that many people that Hawaiian land be included as part of was 7 years, and the kingdom's economy BOOMED attached if you haven't picked up on that to Hawaii to develop sugar plantations, and with them. Not to mention, 7 years is plenty comfortable with any benefits that they received up profiting off of this treaty wanted it Due to this, the king sought an extension has the Kingdom of Hawaii over a barrel, as as a very genius business move by US President this treaty would expire, the United States lower sugar tariffs on imports from ALL nations, After this, the US informed the Kingdom of area of what is now Pearl Harbor in order only had two options from there. He would native Hawaiians in order to maintain his for the best by letting the treaty expire a similar deal. On December 6th of 1884, King States and gave up Pearl Harbor. I can understand to make. If you look at strictly the numbers, by 722% from 1874 to 1890. Although the king involved in some shady practices, like accepting would bring about the Rebellion of 1887. A planned to overthrow the government. They aligned themselves with the Honolulu Rifles, a volunteer military of the Kingdom. The two groups used the threat constitution that they had written. It became resulted in the king losing a great deal of men who supported the rebellion. This new on the right to vote, which ended up preventing from being able to vote. Essentially, the rich that made their money off of the sugar position, I consider this to be the official About one year after the Rebellion of 1887, to lead a rebellion of his own in order to Unfortunately his plot was discovered just is known as the Wilcox Rebellion of 1888. would be the Tariff Act of 1890, also known States sent import taxes through the roof import taxes on sugar, which would destroy and would cripple the Kingdom's economy 4 months later on January 20th of 1891 while Lili'uokalani would become the first and 29th. During her short reign, she tried to by proposing a lottery bill and an opium licensing by her supporters or opponents in government. Constitution. Her new constitution would have voting rights to all of those that had been the Queen had gained the support of the majority friends would not publicly support her proposed fears became reality when a group known as overthrow the queen and the kingdom on January again used as a threat of force to get the John L. Stevens, was also able to get the marines to help protect American lives and the Queen's supporters enough that she was A provisional government was implemented that Pineapples are appropriate this time because to James Dole, who founded the Dole Food Company. Dole and the Dole Food Company had nothing didn't move to Hawaii until 1899. I'd man in charge probably DID help James acquire Oahu though. Sanford Dole would officially he led transitioned into the Republic of following year, Robert Wilcox tried his hand Nowlein. Known as the 1895 Wilcox Rebellion, Kingdom of Hawaii, but it ended in failure. negotiated the release of her supporters from abdication of her throne. She signed the document Republic of Hawaii's ultimate goal was to take William McKinley becoming President of The Spanish-American War had begun and the crucial. This led to President McKinley signing that created the territory of Hawaii. Not Territorial Governor. During Hawaii's time continued to grow. So much so, that a group cane became known as "The Big Five." These power, became multimillionaires, and ended While the Big Five were focused on sugar, The Pineapple King. In the 1930s, the territory Capital of the World. We're now approaching impossible to forget. On December 7th of 1941, on Pearl Harbor. By the time the attack was civilians were dead. President Franklin D. will live in infamy." The very next day, fought as part of the Allied Powers. For the the rules of Martial Law. The military governor by fingerprinting everyone over the age of the news and mail, and implementing blackouts would not be suspended on the islands until the complete end of World War II. The decade where Hawaii started transforming into what strikes among plantation workers in the sugar half of the 1940's that helped unionization Party of Hawaii won the 1954 Territorial Elections corporations and the Hawaiian Republican Party's statehood and gained the support of 93% of 18th of 1959, President Dwight D. Eisenhower officially became the 50th US State on August Native Hawaiians felt that the United States in Congress passing a joint resolution nicknamed by President Bill Clinton on November 23rd the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii occurred citizens of the United States and further never directly relinquished to the United as a people over their national lands, either plebiscite or referendum." A campaign known to this day that seeks to regain sovereignty an independent country again? I'm not convinced the Native Hawaiian's argument for why it history, how does Hawaii's progression from Leave me a comment, and let's discuss the If you enjoyed this video, I encourage you to hit that subscribe button and notification our channel. Thanks for watching this episode and I'll see you next time.