If you asked a younger version of me, I while great in concept, was terribly flawed. were too cryptic, acting as a semblance I would have professed how confusing it all imprecise and frustrating. But I couldn't original Legend of Zelda, I came to a It can seem as though the Zelda series changes the contrast was more noticeable than ever. letting you lose in an entire world Fast forward 25 years, and you'll witness a and barriers at every corner to restrict you and is bad, and each provides a different take was by asking one question: what is the point of an essence, that defines them and summarizes the series provides platforming challenges for you to explore and survive. And, the Mother series narrative with witty, comedic dialogue. the point is to provide an adventure, Entries like Breath of the Wild emphasize combat develop them. Other games like Twilight Princess with grand scope. Majora's Mask provided a better characters. All three of them are Zelda games, They all have dungeons, I suppose. There are encapsulates the core of each example. The designers wanted: to provide an adventure. secret-especially with the first entry. In an the NES classic, Shigeru Miyamoto, the creator of make The Legend of Zelda?" He responded, "I wanted And people playing computer RPGs back then were become and were calling each other at night I thought it was an interesting [social that the Legend of Zelda wanted three things: to each other; and provide a sense of progression. simple, the methods by which Zelda 1 accomplishes certain irony to the first entry, one which I 35 years ago, yet it attempts design choices that makes this entry so fantastic. So, let's take dungeons, and exploration-and how they manifest Combat in Zelda is like Mario. Your success hinges the enemy. Except in Zelda, there's an additional I think it's a result of the limited controls inputs are incredibly limited, but the Zelda team but still complex combat concept-one that relied satisfying combat system because of its enemy the designers poured their effort into the enemy First, let's take a look at the controller, seeing extension, enemy design. An NES has the simplest is similar to a standard controller. By similar, no shoulder buttons, and no analog sticks, and two face buttons. In actuality, there is a It's difficult to create complex input which isn't meant to knock the design of reveals how great design erupted from inside Limited interaction never stops designers from let you jump, run, or use a special ability, Its success wasn't because of the simple each stage evolved in complexity-was concepts and challenges from previous ones to platforming game with significant depth. instead of having complex controls to create challenge and complexity. Just like Mario, Most damage is dealt when an enemy walks into you, few exceptions to this are all projectiles, which Because of that, the combat is centered utilizes its movement to create challenging-but Examining Link's available actions, he can stab, change said item, and pause the game. Having a simple combat system. There is no player differ the fighting. Although, most items are magic wand, etc. Despite their relevance, each For instance, the boomerang promotes opponents, allowing you to fight the enemy The magic wand and bow both favor a ranged with the benefit of better safety. The candle is but that seems like a side effect more than aggression while the flames punish you for being combat tool. Lastly, bombs fall under a balance Link to near an enemy before running away. As you Link: close-ranged or far away. Neither choice so the player complexity and customization However, all redeeming qualities of combat rely examining how well you can maneuver Link around doesn't gleem much about their complexity. entity that moves and sometimes shoots a small, moves around... except it can jump over blocks. gimmick here is that they disappear and reappear. Tektikes move, too. Moblins move like Octoroks. Peahats move. Lynels move and chuck. Rocks move Bubbles move. Gels move. Moldrom moves. Goriyas Didogger moves. Keeses move. Zols move. I don't think it's a stretch to say that the the exceptions that apply are bosses or basic how little variety there is, it's easy to assume isn't the case. Most any screen-whether in the screen. The beginning of the game illustrates what several enemies appearing on-screen. If you head eastern dead-end has four tektites, and your last the game piles several enemies onto you, which is Stacking enemies like what I described Since most monsters can only deal damage when victory involves moving around and dodging that combat is centered around 2D, single-plane order to create complex, worthwhile challenges? movement-specifically precision, spacing, position Link correctly, avoiding good spacing means that you're able to stay at a dodging; and great timing is about finding the Examining individual groups of enemies can reveal one of the more basic enemies, test your timing cycles of attacking and waiting that are repeated. tests how well you can predict their patterns and Tektites jolt around the screen once they're test your ability to run away. are trials of precision and timing. Their sword armor upgrades-and this acts as a test of your block projectiles, and even then, you need the centaurs throw. Having a single area to block about where you're facing. When several Lynels this test becomes even more challenging. These you have to gauge when their beams will appear. the overworld just because of how complex they The most complex of all enemies, though, is the In regards to precision, they have a shield like sides or back. It requires precision since Otherwise, you'll be punished. Another aspect considering the fact that Darknuts can turn 90 rely on your own judgment as to when an attack is to besting the Darknut. Stabbing your sword too heart containers. Considering the fact that most can result in a massive hit to your health. with a variety of enemies is frankly impressive. combat would be simplistic and boring. To my instead. Centering combat around movement execution deserves all the praise I've given it. movement, any inaccuracies or mishaps regarding one of the first Zelda games, there were bound to spared from that terrible fate. His movement game design that aligns the player character One reason to implement this is to ensure that If this mechanic didn't exist, other problems it would be terribly frustrating to walk up collision-the boundaries that prevent you from then it is pixel perfect, meaning that there more, no less. With that in mind, you would set of stairs. I feel confident in my estimation, the point where I struggled with this very issue. for all movement. Character snapping is frequent that are a few pixels wide. The dungeon floors squares. As you can see, Link will phase to a is the most common instance you'll stop moving? it slightly off puts your attack. It can have graciously guide you into the path of a Darknut's Why, oh why, do these enemies not have a visual or frustrating to take a gamble on when to stab if A few other enemies suffer from the same can be, it hurts their design the most. Octoroks, They stop moving once they're ready to fire, so Cues like what the Octoroks have are so necessary tests. If you see the visual indicator in time mastered combat. If not, then it serves as an capabilities. These indicators are essential something that the sequel understood. short visual cue for the same enemy, albeit perspective. Darknuts in the first entry needed a small visual indicator that would play right much animation in the first Zelda, they could Instead of stopping, though, the darknuts Excusing those two minor problems, there's it's not developed. The problem's similar to two layers. Each layer on that cake constitutes you have Octoroks, leevers, tektites, ropes, some bosses like Gleeok, Wizzrobes, and more. which reveals how the combat, while having a great of complexity, hindering the depth of fighting. not enemies, that could comprise the third cake projectiles complicate your movement options. adding complexity because it further restricts as well as a barrage of projectiles is frustrating with the lack of visual cues for the triumph afterward is sublime. The feeling having to bob and weave through what seems The idea is so fantastic, in fact, that the later boss rooms-especially in instances where projectile-spewing statues, to the point I want this combat system to have complexity, over and over and over again, it loses its I would say reaches the same complexity as the There are enemies that attempt to reach the questionable, frustrating design choices that the ultimate, final boss of the game, the one build-up,Thank you he ought to be the most Well... he suffers from a phenomenon that Some bosses and rooms near the later parts have through your supply of heart containers. carry on through all the damage given. I approach doesn't encourage mastery of combat. exploration because you need heart containers, but that doesn't promote the core tenets of There's no precision to be found in the final where the man Ganon is. Along with that, testing of the question since you won't know where he is that's with the best armor upgrade. All we're the fight succeeds at. The Invisible Swine's testing your ability to dodge projectiles under a to slay the beast. If enemies like the Darknut while the final boss can only accomplish the attempt to be complex was a failure at that. is complex enough to be entertaining, it can be good-sometimes great. You can't but that's fine; not every game needs to have the What Zelda 1 succeeds at is creating enclosed movements more than how flashy or fast you can Dungeon design doesn't dabble in many puzzling series. Rather, the dungeons are focused on to create conflict, thereby establishing Zelda dungeons, as we know them today, are enemy encounters, and bosses as a way to triumphant satisfaction. Certain creations in any but what's strange about this first entry is that Not maintaining series staples isn't bad by any went about creating conflict and, afterward, a an aspect that the dungeons revel in, information scarcity. Let me ask you a question: Have you felt frustrated for fumbling about and for figuring out the answer because it seemed so when puzzles center around information scarcity. the world and its dungeons is limited, and progression. Don't believe me? Well, a Hungry Goriya blocks your path, spouting room. It's safe to assume that the Goriya has fact that you can't walk past the enemy, I had Now there are two resolutions after this point. enough to find merchants selling meat. You either or you have to exit the dungeon, traversing The second resolution is that you're stuck, This is a problem of information. If you lack then you can't solve the puzzle, but then the blockade is easily solved-maybe with Level 5 features a similar predicament is invulnerable during the first phase. Just like needed information or you don't. What you need to an Old Man, who says that "Digdogger hates certain but the hint is a piece of knowledge that hints very level. Conversely, not knowing about the inability to defeat the boss, depending on whether is a probable possibility. The scenario through exploration, and without sufficient After entering Level 7, you experience tells you that "there's a secret in the the push-block puzzle located in the "nose" of The same situation occurs in Level 9: another for the dungeon. Without this knowledge from him, lost and confused. While not necessary, the Old the White Sword, an invaluable tool to progress Going to Level 6, another Old Man tells you about secrets where fairies don't live. In Level 8, the Mountain, the final dungeon in the game, which you featuring the infamous "Dodongo dislikes smoke," the boss is weak to bombs, something you can't Maybe that was too many examples, but they're in Zelda 1 don't rely on rules or core mechanics. information puzzles, the type that crops up the this type of puzzle because it can be successful. admire because its location is relevant to the what's in the nose, and how do I get it? As puzzle design of Zelda 1 isn't consistent. too much ambiguity. Creating uncertain there wouldn't be a puzzle. However, the than the actual hint itself. If information frustration often ensues. In Level 5, for "Secret power is said to be in the arrow." a normal arrow, so I assumed that there it was only "imminent" if the word meant several time and distance that separates this hint from divide is too wide, blurring the hint's actual Even then, the phrasing itself is too ambiguous Arrow upgrades are quite common, so I was A previous secret I talked about-the one from the the same problem. As a wise man once said, problems here. First, utilizing location names in lot of text is inadvisable at the very least. is only if you know about Death Mountain the volcano was popularized by future entries, but alluding to the location's name isn't effective a different scenario, where the Old Man referred more for expounding upon the information-scarce this example is disappointing and frustrating. inventive ways, too. "Go to the next room" and spring to mind, both suffering from a futile no bearing on the game. Although, this is probably If hints or dialogue aren't useful, the the main focus is and has always been combat. my thoughts on that, but the secondary focus of became the greater focus of Zelda titles, starting on the issue are from the lens of someone who's this entry. For that, the puzzles were... creative. important as puzzles are, I feel like they don't Zelda 1. The second being one of the most pivotal Link is such a fantastic character because he which other media can't do. You can witness an epic from a novel; but becoming the adventurer is like Dungeons &amp; Dragons, allowing you to create of video games required Nintendo to create a with what was happening in the game. Because of in which you feel the same loneliness, him ever expressing a single word or emotion. what defines the exploration found in Zelda 1. The map design. Starting the game, you have the map in game, you will never find a map of the overarching To find that precious information, though, you dungeon. Even after obtaining a layout of the and sometimes there are even secret rooms The process, therefore, necessitates most often hinder one's desire to explore. anything akin to a map. The most you'll get the screen, informing you about Link's general discoveries are more potent than ever. For once, The sparse, almost non-existent story aids that to no context as to what's happening. Even if you purpose and inevitable goal of your quest. You you'll face, or the people you can encounter. Secrets, then, become the main source of discovery obscure to quite obvious, but the satisfaction game's credit, the required secrets aren't that Zelda 1's infamous reputation with cryptic clues, secrets you necessarily need to beat the game. you don't even need the path through the Lost the Magical Sword isn't required to beat the is the only sword you need to defeat Ganon. most players will find before finishing the game. so let's take a look at how obscure they without the Magical Sword is a chore, so the path through the Lost Woods is the so if you're like me, you'll try to find a way secret, there's an old woman in the furthest her the middle amount of rupees, she tells you most players will use to explore the northwestern need to bomb a wall for this, either. She waits in The hint about the magical sword is from an Old point, meaning that this is potentially one of finding which grave houses the Old Man is quite moved, a Ghini will appear. The newly-spawned Both of the aforementioned examples reveal In the prior section, I discussed how most meaning that progression is reliant on what thing happens for the secrets in the overworld. based to a small extent. Despite the consistent the exploration really suffers due to The most infamous of these being found "Eastmost peninsula is the secret." This myself included, aren't certain about what original Japanese text doesn't work, either, since in order to use arrows. For the sake of clarity, Moblin located one screen North of this eastmost this is an absurd, asinine hint because to find with no indication that you can do something the absurd ambiguity of the original hint isn't a required discovery, but it reveals the However, investigating other hint-based secrets for the system. Two instances involving the occurs in Level 4. Inside the dungeon, he states, "Which damn waterfall?" But after reflecting on a single waterfall on the map. This alone imbues from the Old Man all but confirms that there's is so fascinating because it highlights what suspicion. Creating suspicious or questionable acting as a clue to help you discover a secret. Exploring the top row of the map, you'll find an "Show this to the Old Woman." Not specifying but it's actually not. Close to where Link nothing when you enter her cave. The lack of and once you bring her the Old Man's note, she informs you about the importance of looking for a finding the right person isn't that difficult. a creative approach to facilitating exploration. regards to the secret Moblins-I don't mind my desire to explore the land of Hyrule, but Really, it cuts down to the core it emulates traditional design facets-exploration, Zelda 1 encapsulates what makes the series The puzzles certainly are unfamiliar Information is prided above anything else such etc. The combat is movement-based, and it's from with each passing sequel. Proceeding 2D Awakening certainly contain fragments of Zelda 1's transforms fighting more than you think. has remained the same. Discovery is a wonder, and joy in so many players, including its identity centered around discovery-none but shocked, and awed me my whole life. Examining the after is surreal to say the least. Even by the Zelda 1 is still so unique, and the legend of Thank you so so much for watching this video all that other bs if you want to essentially 4.8 or 4.6 percent of you who are subscribed but don't know how exact that is i'm guessing but i'd appreciate it if you still subscribe i do genuinely want to thank you for watching this video thank you to everyone who's come here so much there will be future long form content the comments that you would want me to discuss anything basically even jrpgs at this point i've jrpgs so we'll see how that turns out anyway