If an underground organism of unfathomable you might expect widespread panic at the horrifying to block off the cosmic terror from civilians. You might not expect the entity to be turned But that's what happened with the (thankfully) the name given to a creature of indeterminate into a tourist attraction. &quot;Mystery Flesh Pit" is an ongoing multimedia who you can follow and support in the links The story of the pit is told through fliers, horrifying lifeform as a relaxing family getaway. It's this upbeat language around something Flesh Pit so amusing... and so unsettling. Just the sort of thing to cover at this spooky But since venturing into the darkness of an do on one's own, E.D.G.E. will be joining He makes great content about Prehistoric life, so he's just the person to help investigate Now, let's begin our descent... Unearthed accidentally in the early 1970s, Basin Superorganism, is located in West Texas. Discovered by oil workers, the first tours small-time oilman and showman. The Mystery Flesh Pit was then further studied corporation who opened the park as a tourist perfectly safe. We know how corporations are. In selling the park to the public, Anodyne itself, creating a friendly cartoon mascot, nothing to be afraid of. The attraction was later absorbed into the led to the Permian Basin Superorganism becoming Surprising absolutely no one, thousands of an unknown organism would eventually prove would prove, but that's a story we'll For now, let's try to piece together the understand the Pit's Biology. Like many aspects of the pit, the more visceral clinical language by the professionals who Since an organism of this size defied conventional to understand it. Geobiology is the term used for how the organism Looking at this early map, you can see the limbic, and vascular systems similar to traditional This section of the pit is only a small fragment How large? Data collected from a series of boreholes places, the organism extends over 30 kilometers For reference, the Marianas trench is only Indeed, the author suggests that the pit may some imaginary scientists suggesting that of the planet, having merely "surfaced" And despite public assurances to the contrary, the scenes long understood the superorganism At one point in this fictional alternate history, into the feasibility of using nuclear weapons Although only the cover of this report was be a resounding "no." What made the Permian Basin Superorganism The answers may lie deeper within... In the early days of the Pit, a mission called organism to a greater depth than ever before. A joint effort between the U.S. government a six-person team lowered into the pit via Over a period of two weeks, the pod descended that had never been explored before. At last, the probe drilled through a dense region of 'blue tissue.' A single person pod was lowered into this The Russian pilot described a 'reflective' we only have a single image from this onboard When the pod was raised back to the surface, missing. The researchers concluded an attack from an Project Freefall makes it clear that the organic a portion of the lifeform, and other regions It also made it clear people aren't alone Even above the deeper layers, which weren't was frequently encountered. Large, crustacean-like organisms were spotted sketch shows. In typical Mystery Flesh Pit fashion, however, lifeforms into part of the marketing. Wildlife safety brochures were handed out fauna' that dwelled in the pit, and how At the foundation of the pit's ecosystem, bodies of regular-sized animals, were macrobacteria. Unlike tiny bacteria you can only spot under goliaths that could reach lengths of 12 feet, This educational chart produced by the Park -- and the other bizarre species that dwell We won't be able to cover them all, but an insect-like species that gets its name About Nature' infographic will tell you. These pseudo-vertebrates are almost the size as this guide will assure you... although they do feed off the pit and look In other areas of the pit, there were sightings rumors of human-like lifeforms called 'marrow They maintained the Mystery Flesh Pit was who mysteriously vanished just didn't read With the Permian Basin Superorganism so hostile -- a challenge that began with finding people As this oddly hilarious park ranger recruitment benefits and incentives, Anodyne Inc. was in the Mystery Flesh Pit park ranger program. What kinds of jobs did this entail? Well, why not become a Park Trail Engineer? This anxiety producing position involved using specialized tools to create new pathways within To be a Park Trail Engineer required extensive -- as attacks from local wildlife were apparently For personal protection, the LaserScope "Anatomical defense. Intended to blast new paths within the Mystery of which is on display here -- was frequently To more safely traverse the Pit's interior, Vehicle, or IAV: a vehicle that could traverse you can see here in this highly detailed breakdown. Its maneuverability came in part from a rotating of the vehicle to the mid-section. As tourism increased, the larger Venterial which we know from schematics used a set of These safari vessels could seat up to eight with supposed safety. 'Supposed' being the key word here, as vehicles were bent, melted, crushed, dented, ...Maybe traversing the unknown depths of all? Well, as Caver Dave might say, that's not For adventurous park guests, the opportunity was possible with the Interventerial Tent Unlike traditional tents, this collapsible, shifts and deadly wildlife of the Pit while At least, most of the time... When things went wrong, emergency trail phones Called 'lighthouses' by seasoned hikers, were highly advanced in the 1970s. And indeed, the study of the Permian Basin breakthroughs... One of many lucrative results from the development in the field of computer science. In the early 1980s, Anodyne began to release the Permian Basin Superorganism. With four terabytes of organic tissue storage An even more well-known product exported from -- a miraculous fluid from deep within the such as this one. The product could cure various illnesses, But the most notable service Anodyne offered Aside from hiking, tourists paid for access The springs had strong effects on visitors skin healthier and giving them a euphoric As long as they could take their mind off The true focus of the Pit for most visitors, gateway into the deep that took eight years With restrooms, a gift shop, and even restaurants, national park. Was it a good idea to suspend a several-ton the pit? Anodyne Inc soon found out... At last, we've come to the 2007 disaster On July 4th, 2007, due to Anodyne's negligence, water pump caused a section of the Pit to The result was a catastrophe most had never began to wake up. Imagine waking up from a long nap to find in your throat. You'd be pretty mad. At 9:52 PM, the lifeform began a choking response Visitor Center to be crushed and swallowed But this was just the beginning. According to an incident report, the creature all around west Texas witnessing the limbs -- the scale of which is captured in this And then, the creature returned to its slumber, contingency measure redacted from the incident In the wake of the disaster, Anodyne was dissolved, public -- with people perhaps finally realizing such a good idea after all. The author imagines that the region around fences, some are still monitoring it. In the present of this alternate timeline, under constant surveillance, but who knows There's a lot more lurking in the Pit you and support Trevor Roberts by using the links something from the Mystery Flesh Pit gift I'm Destin from the channel EDGE. I cover all sorts of topics in natural history. Whether it's the extinct beasts of times of the living, or the extraordinary dark places If you like Curious Archive, Ben G Thomas, my content as well. Follow the links to my channel in the description And as always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your icon to stay up to date on all things Curious. See you in the next video.