(foreboding music) (foreboding music) (foreboding music) (foreboding music) (foreboding music) (foreboding music) (water crashing) (foreboding music) (rain splattering) (animal whimpering) (water roaring) (foreboding music) (foreboding music) (rain splattering) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (ethereal music) (delicate music) - I think people don't because they don't have access and evidences that are there. They are simply captive to entertainment, social media. There you have movies like &quot;Noah&quot; that in a very fictional distorts the Bible totally, and for many people, that's for something they think And we have, of course, the whole embedded and the geologic column which tell students as they come along that the Earth has existed for millions, if not billions of years, that man is a product simply A flood is a supernatural event. A flood is a divine judgment. A flood destroyed mankind. And they're not told that there are evidences of these things. They aren't shown the to say that this holds up very well in terms of our scientific age. So it's simply, you know, on the one hand, a lack of information, and then on the other hand- - The fear of man. For the same reason in a lot of the things that the Bible says are literally true, literally history, and literally science. The fear of looking silly and the intimidation by people who host science television I think it's really that they're afraid of But when you actually go past the surface and look at the feasibility of it's almost inescapably plausible. - Conventional scientists, think that the present The Bible, in fact, tells us that the past is the key to the present, and the flood is key to understanding why the world is the way it is today. Not just the geology, Understanding the ark and to understanding why the and how we got to be here. Everyone is interested in their history, and the flood is key to - In the early 19th century, when the idea of millions it developed as a result of the flood and the biblical chronology. Most of the church came to the conclusion that the flood wasn't global, it wasn't really geologically significant, the age of the Earth doesn't matter, and so over the next 100-150 years, the flood was just kind of forgotten. And it still, in large measure today, is ignored by most Christians. They just never think of to the question of the age of the Earth, but it's critically important. - We can go back and we can see in the fossil record, for - When we look at the world around us and we look at all of those hundreds and hundreds of rock layers, they're sedimentary layers. That means they were laid down by water. The flood was a reminder and God said He's gonna - He sent the flood to and that's why God sent the flood. It's important to punish evil. That's justice. What is just? The reason the ark is so is because man's sin deserves judgment. The Bible clearly reveals that we are now approaching the time when the second global judgment will come. If we don't understand or believe in the first global judgment, then we will not be ready for So the consequences of the next judgment could not possibly be more relevant. What is at stake is heaven or hell. (edgy music) - [Narrator] The Holy Bible. A book inspired and architected by God and written by His people, dating back to the beginning from the time of man's true origins. A book that teaches us that the Earth is not as we've been brought up to believe. A book teaching us that we did or primordial soup. But a book that instead is a loving, merciful, and just God. A God who created a beautiful world in which the entire planet a paradise that He gave to us to fill up and multiply across. In Genesis, we're shown all of creation in six literal days, and that, indeed, was very, very good. (stirring music) (stirring music) In the span of four days, God was finished with the And it was on the fifth day that He began making the sea creatures, both great and small. And on that very same day, He also made all of the which flew through the open firmament of the beautiful heaven. On the sixth day, He made all of the which included all of the dinosaurs, along with mankind. He also planted a garden, and in the midst of it, the Tree of Life. But there was another tree God had also placed in the garden, one that God commanded man not to eat from. Sadly, mankind used their free will to sin against their With free will comes consequences, and in this case, the consequences of sin would plunge mankind into darkness. - Before the Fall, God saw and it was very good, tov meod. It was just the way it should have been. It came forth exactly as he intended. - At the end of Genesis 1, &quot;God looked at everything He had made, and it was very good.&quot; And we get some idea of how good it was in the last three verses when God says that both man and the animals They didn't eat each other. They ate the plants and That's telling us a lot about - Creation was in a state of innocence. This affirms a fundamental He is good. God is not the author of evil or death. - God came into the garden, He had fellowship with man, and they could actually according to the way we - They would have lived forever. God warned him beforehand, you're going to die.&quot; Well, Adam did eat. God told Adam, &quot;You're gonna die.&quot; - God said, &quot;From dust you came, and to dust you shall return,&quot; so that's physical death. Through one man, sin entered the world, and death through sin. Adam and Eve began to die physically. The fall of man affected The ground was cursed. The whole creation is groaning in bondage to corruption. - Sadly, the reality of the Fall is now easily seen wherever we look. In this broken world, violence, corruption, lies, hate, and sin. - Man is exiled from the and that fellowship is Man is going to have to labor and then he will return to the That is what has happened to the world. So it describes entropy, the whole idea that things dissolution, finally death. The whole world is like this. It has a limited shelf life, so to speak. - It changed the world profoundly. Pretty much everything was Even the creatures were suddenly Diseases and viruses emerged It just radically changed everything. It even changed plants. Plants suddenly became weeds - The ground was cursed. Thorns and thistles began to grow. We don't live in the We live in a fallen The Fall was a massive, catastrophic, world-changing event. - So everything was corrupted. It was a tragedy on the Evil had to mature before God unleashed the first judgment. (ethereal music) - [Narrator] The Lord God in which everything was once very good. But when the first man man's domain was plunged which only grew worse with And it was not just men but all under man's dominion. Animals became carnivores and turned on each other and man. Where once the Earth had been now was filled with and endless violence. Paradise, along with man's innocence, was now gone. (ominous music) (ominous music) The Lord Jesus would tell us later that just as in the days of Noah, so too would the world become again just before His return. (ominous music) (ominous music) (bell tolling) (bell tolling) (solemn music) - Most flood geologists point had a more global warm mild climate, and the evolutionists believe that too. It's not just because of continental drift that we find pine tree on Antarctica. Not just because those continents were once in different places, but because the Earth had a heavier, lusher vegetation, greener, thicker forests that stretched further towards the poles and away from the equatorial zones. Right now, we just don't that could generate the or provided the vast source for the carbon that for the coal seams that we have today. We would have had to have more forested, more vegetated Earth. - Clearly, the amount of was far superior, far more luxuriant. Today's world is a desert by comparison to what the pre-flood a much gentler topography, much more prolific - We have many creatures that are just like today, but they were much larger. So giantism in the fossil record. That indicates that the pre-flood world was much more suitable - Originally at least, it wouldn't have had It wouldn't have had huge desert areas. God created the world to be inhabited. Prior to the flood, mankind to a large degree. The Bible talks about In Genesis 6, it speaks of was only evil continually&quot; and that the whole world because of man. To me, I think it would be a - The intents and thoughts were only evil continually. The Earth was filled with violence, and all flesh had corrupted So it was excessive sin and and God said, &quot;I'm going - The remnant Noah and his family, they found grace in God's sight. Apparently they were not of and God took that remnant of mankind, was able to preserve it. - But one of the things is the lifespans of And Noah was 600 years old, and after he got off the He was 950 years old when he died. Now, his sons that got off the ark didn't live that long themselves, but they lived into their 500s. And then the next generation the 400s, the 300s. We are getting to Terah, Abraham's father, living into his 200s. Abraham lived to be 175. And it was an exponential - Adam and Eve had no mutations. The first 10 patriarchs before the flood had very low mutation rates, and so they were all living Something happened at and that's when this of humanity happened. There was this incredible When you plot the data, it's astounding. Because the data, which is and you wouldn't expect but the data follows a strict decay curve, and it's stunning. (cautious music) - [Narrator] In the Bible, we are told that before the flood, men lived to be nearly The average age of men at the time was so staggeringly high compared to today that some have a difficult time comprehending how such Yet, a major clue lies within the ages given to us in the book of Genesis. In almost computer-like fashion, that the post-flood lifespans of the genealogical line of Adam following mathematical concepts Meaning that if you were of all of the men after the flood, you don't see a linear line as you would likely see but instead, what you see is with minor variations since Would the men who recorded really have conspired that follows an exponential decay curve? Instead, what we see resembles we would expect in the revealing a steep initial just after the flood due to the catastrophic No more access to nutrient-dense foods from the world that was lost and genetic mutations that The truth is that no one at the time of recording these metrics would even think to plot them if they were making a fiction. This sophisticated decay of a real and easily provable flood event. (pensive music) - The objections to Noah's flood are mostly ridicule and laugh out louds. The only serious things &quot;Well, where did the water go? Where did the water come from?&quot; And then lampooning Noah's Ark. There was a Discover Channel special called &quot;Noah's Ark: The True Story,&quot; where they showed actors portraying the traditional biblical version and then they showed you the true story. And Noah was dressed in a had a shaved head, and Noah's Ark was a beer barge. I'm not kidding, look it up. Discover Channel, &quot;Noah's How do they know that? Asserting that that's and then watched it fall apart into pieces as it, of course, was ridiculing the structure of the ark. - When I was a masters student I looked at the geometry of the cross-section and of the length of just the straightforward And I found out that 90 degrees in pitch mode and 90 degrees in yaw mode, meaning it'll go all up to 90 It's stable. - Not that that wouldn't for the people and the animals in the ark if it had been tilted that much, but that does show the stability. Certainly whatever they could the ark could have taken structurally. - This is a 200-scale ark, and and we put a measurement device and so we were able to scale the waves. And do you know that it and it was still stable. Never turned over, 500 foot. A tsunami, by the way, So, it lets you know about - Most of biology didn't Most plants didn't need to be on the ark. Most insects didn't need to be on the ark. Only the creatures that - Most of the species live in the ocean, which do just fine in a flood. So the Bible doesn't say two of every species onto the ark. He was to take two of every kind, the same word that's used in Genesis 1 that talks about God of plants and animals to And so we think there were and about 7,000 animals on the ark. Average size, maybe a but most creatures much smaller than that. We're not talking about, for example, two Great Danes, two German Shepherds, two wolves, two coyotes. He took two of the dog kind on the ark, and we know from modern genetics that there's tremendous genetic variation built into the DNA for And so, creation scientists well, what was the created kind in comparison to our modern And they think that in most cases, it was equivalent to The evolutionists just exaggerate because they focus on species. - [Narrator] Evolutionists often claim that it would not be possible to fit all of the species of life on Earth onto a ship the size of the ark, even when factoring just how humongous Noah's Ark actually was. At roughly 50 feet high, 85 feet wide, and more than 500 feet long, the ark is the largest wooden vessel known to have been built by man, with the USS Wyoming, a gigantic wooden schooner built in 1909, coming in at second at 450 feet long. Yet regardless of size, imagining how the ark could of all life on Earth is a rather elementary-level the excellent efficiency The reality is that the sea creatures, insects, invertebrates, and plant species did not need to be included on the ark. You see, God instructed Noah to only bring the vertebrae land animals, and when you simplify those animals to their genealogical class which is known as a kind, you can further significantly reduce the number of animal kinds needed down to around roughly 1,400 kinds or approximately 6,750 animals in total. Of those animals, you fully mature adults, when smaller juveniles waste less, and live longer while reproducing in the post-flood world. With roughly 6,750 we can now also estimate that approximately and when considering that was needed for food storage, you can see that we have for cages and infrastructure, with the remaining area of 483 semi-trailers within its volume. It's also no surprise that the dimensions God gave for the ark turn out to be optimal for stability. In fact, if we were to scale the ark up, it appears that modern cruise ships have taken notes from as you can see striking similarities in shapes and proportions that they share. As you can observe, the are alive and well today and have long-reaching implications in virtually every field of science, including baraminology, botany, hydrodynamics, anthropology, and more. But as compelling as the we must not forget that it is God who orchestrated the events. It was God who decided the time And it was God who was for the deliverance of all (solemn music) (solemn music) (solemn music) In the second book of Peter, we are told that in the last days before Jesus Christ returns, people would deliberately ignore Or as the Bible puts it, they would be willingly Peter tells us that in the last days, men would mock the Bible and the second coming of Jesus Christ, and instead, they would just like they did in Noah's day. You see, just as Noah had faith to carry out God's and just as Noah had faith that God would bring so we too must have faith that God was perfectly capable of preserving Noah, his family, and all of the creatures aboard the ark. Is it too difficult a thing for the God who created the to preserve the life that he chooses? Of course not. So let us not be counted among those who Peter prophesied would ignore the evidence of the flood, since we are indeed living near the end. Instead, let us be named among those who believe in God and His word. The Bible says that on the day that the rains of the flood began, all of the animals with the breath of life were onboard the ark and it was God Himself and save them from the coming judgment. - The global nature of the flood is given in the biblical text, and it's quite clear, especially going to the Term for the flood itself is mabbul. - The unique Hebrew word mabbul. It's used only one other That is in Psalm 29:10 where it says that God - It's a very unique term from other types of flood. - So this was a unique flood. First we could talk the purpose of the flood. Contrary to what many think, it was not simply to destroy sinful man, but also Genesis 6 tells us to destroy all the land animals and birds not on the ark with Noah and to destroy the surface of the Earth, and only a global flood would Then we can talk about the ark. The purpose of the ark was so Noah could start a It was, as Genesis 7:3 says, &quot;To keep offspring alive on And then we have the - Everything that is under the whole Earth, everything in which is the breath of life. - Those words appear all, every, under heaven, and when you have a that is emphatic. Secondly, we have the 370 days. - Why such an extensive I mean, why that duration of the flood? Why would it take so long - There's no way a local We have the depth of the flood. It covered all the high mountains everywhere under the heavens, and since water seeks a level plane, it would have to be a global flood. - When the Scripture to about 24 feet above the mountains, even if you give the idea that the mountains were not they were upthrust after the flood, you still have water only If we had a local flood, then obviously there's - If the flood was local the ark was totally unnecessary. The animals didn't need to go in there, and He could have told Noah and his family to go on a vacation to Europe or Egypt. - Noah and his family could And then why an ark at all? Why such a large ark? Why all the animals? Why the birds? The birds could fly away. Animals, there are animals if it's a local flood. Just this whole idea of by the two of each kind means you were trying to preserve - Only a global flood fits Then we could talk about the volume. It was way too big if it - You also have the that if you had men elsewhere who were not part of the then the whole idea of for corruption of the Earth God says, &quot;I've seen the wickedness of man that's great on the Earth.&quot; Not just in one local When we come to the New Testament, you have a passage like 2 Peter 3:5-7. It compares a flood that with a future judgment on a coming world or the world that now is. If you had a local judgment in the past, you'd have to have a local but, of course, this is the to judge His world, and it has to be universal. - Well, if the flood then what do you think? Maybe when Jesus returns, Oh, no, it's gonna be a - And I would add one last thing, and that is we can't People look at the description of the geography where the The reason we can't is because the pre-flood world It is now buried under thousands of feet of sedimentary deposits. So the flood was not a local flood. (ominous music) - [Narrator] The Bible tells us that God looked upon His creation, &quot;and behold, it was all corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted Judgment day had finally come. (ominous music) (door creaking) (animals bleating) (tense music) (water rustling) (tense music) (rain splattering) (tense music) (tense music) (tense music) (thunder booming) (tense music) (tense music) (tense music) (water rustling) (thunder booming) God said, &quot;And behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the Earth to destroy all flesh wherein is the breath of life from under heaven, and everything that is on the Earth shall die.&quot; (edgy music) - Every non-flood geologist on our planet believes that the planet Creationists do believe, like the secular geologists believe, Mars did have a flood. We think it happened the Maybe an asteroid storm hitting the inner planets, Here on our planet, we're now currently covered and they can't buy that It's very, very easy for them to believe that Mars had a global flood, but for some reason, they can't accept there's plenty of evidence Where did all the water I mean, where did it come Well, look at the globe. We're 3/4 covered with It's all still here. - The most asked questions are where did the water and where did it go? And the answer is easily explained in the model of catastrophic - The process of is very similar to The main difference is at which these processes unfold. Today, the plates are moving about a few inches per year. However, during the flood, a billion times faster. When the flood began, it on the bottom of the deep ocean. - Where the Bible even says, &quot;the fountains of the The mid-ocean ridge is 44,000 miles long. Most of it is underwater. That's why they call And if it all erupted at the same time, it would have made the and then, phooh, the mid-ocean all around the world at but that first phase, wom, would have caused sea level Then this tidal wave coming out from that sudden rise at the headed towards the continents. Now that would have been The second phase of the flood, it says, was when &quot;the windows - It's no accident that there's an order given &quot;The fountains of the deep broke open.&quot; That is the crust breaking open, the water shooting up, and carrying that ocean water up. Then it fell as global - People all know that the flood was 40 days and 40 nights of rain, but the waters prevailed - When &quot;the fountains of as the Bible describes, that's the description of the fracturing of the pre-flood crust. You've got molten material that's expanding as it solidifies. The new ocean floor expanded. That pushed up sea level. That means that the ocean The ocean waters rose up The new ocean floor cooled and it shrank, and therefore, sea level fell, and the ocean waters drained off. The floodwaters are still present on the Earth's surface today. They went into the new ocean basins that were produced as a In fact, the Earth is - Yeah, the water's still here. It's deep in those trenches. Some of the trenches are 8; now we find out 10 miles deep. If we had lower land formations we would probably be a water planet today with no land surface. And it's scraping the bottom of the barrel to try to say where did all the water go. It's still here and it's that the same water, mostly, the same water that's here to have flooded the Earth at one time and that the situation has changed so that water is now in deeper basins. Not a problem in the flood model at all. - [Narrator] We're all familiar with the theory about Pangaea, which holds that the to form a supercontinent through a process called plate tectonics. Catastrophic plate tectonics as conventional plate tectonics, except that the timeline and events are all centered around instead of millions of You may be surprised to learn that it was a man a famous cartographer from the 1500s, who first proposed the idea that the flood of Noah for tearing apart the Americas Hundreds of years later, another Christian by the name would first theorize the modern concept of continental drift, in which he illustrated two maps depicting the continents of the world as once joined together. This was decades before German would propose his own known today as Pangaea, and be erroneously dubbed the Antonio was snubbed of His crime was citing the book of Genesis, in which he said he made the discovery that at the beginning of creation, there is only one continent. You see, the book of Genesis laid out exactly what in the past during the flood, starting with what the Bible calls &quot;the fountains of the great deep opening.&quot; It wouldn't be until the 1950s that technology initially developed to detect submarines underwater would stumble across these gigantic scars from the fountains of the exactly as the Bible had described. How did a book thousands of years old know exactly what was at the The Bible says that first these giant subterranean rifts broke open, piercing the Earth's crust, spewing magma that created steam jets that shot up into the sky. Then the book of Genesis says that the waters poured through the windows of and that the rain lasted The supercontinent that the is now beginning to break apart. At first, the newly partitioned slamming into each other before starting their ultimate This closes seaways and in the Americas and Europe, such as the Appalachian The seafloor spreads, widening the separation Scientists will later discover that the seafloor at is much younger than the seafloor in other parts of the world, exactly as the Bible suggests. As this newly emerging it subducts under the west binding and releasing, causing massive tsunamis carrying mud mixed with sea creatures, totally overwhelming the land. As what's known as the pushes up during the subduction, the Rocky Mountains also began to form, along with the Independence Dike Swarm, a 400-mile long volcanic that covers half of America. As the Western Interior Seaway the last of the dinosaurs are flooded, mixed together with sea life, and are buried in mud, sand, and ash in the middle of America. As we near the end of the as the seafloor stops As the new massive ocean the waters reverse back down and recede as much as a mile. All over the Earth, trillions as incredible evidence of the worldwide catastrophic flood. - The most compelling is the sediment record itself. All over the Earth, Hundreds of distinct horizontal layers generally with smooth The only way that such a record could have come into existence is global-scale processes in a single global event. - All over the world, the layers are flat, and there's no river channels in them. Think about what you You see these flat pancakes, just flat, flat, flat, flat. They're basically erosionless. Here's how they formed. At the beginning of the flood, there was movements of the crust. Crustal movements actually Earthquakes in water cause tsunamis. The tsunamis then originating would then race across the continents. Once the tsunami lost its power, the sediment would settle and form a flat layer at the bottom. That's the first layer. Then another earthquake in a sets off a tsunami, maybe a week later, maybe a day later, brings in a different sediment. The tsunami runs out The sediments in the and form another flat layer. There's no erosion. Again, you have a third tsunami bringing in these sediments, third layer. - My simulations indicate that these tsunamis were large enough for a single tsunami to sweep all the way across a continent. - These layers were formed underwater. That's why they were so It's fascinating to see explain their dig sites. For example, at Dinosaur Provincial Park, they have 10,000 dinosaurs buried in this flat layer. And you ask the site paleontologist, &quot;Well, how did these 10,000 dinosaurs get in this flat layer?&quot; &quot;Well, they died in a river in flood.&quot; &quot;Oh, what was the shape &quot;It was a flat river bottom.&quot; So you're saying this that could bury 10,000 which would be a raging river, wasn't strong enough to Why isn't there a river cut Why isn't there erosion from that river? The answers make no sense in light of this flat problem, - What we see at the Grand Canyon is that the layers got bent Because the folding was smooth when the sediments were still soft, the whole sequence had to be and then bent at the end of the flood while they were still wet, and so these folds are tying together all the layers, and it emphatically demonstrates that the millions of years never happened. - Or the fact that you have what are called polystrate fossils. They're usually trees that go - These trees have three 30 million years worth You know that if you start accumulating sediment around the bottom, that sediment would eat away at the bark, the bark would rot, and the would fall over even less But here we have trees, vertical, fossilized, with three layers. In the worldwide flood, and they were floating on the top. Now eventually, the and sank to the bottom. Now trees normally sink horizontal, but some trees, as discovered when they sink, they sink vertically. If a tsunami wave comes, and there was a lot of tsunami and brings in sediment, when the tsunami wave loses power, the sediment in the wave settles into a flat layer at the bottom. Maybe a week later or a day later, another tsunami wave comes in When the tsunami wave loses its power, the sediment begins to fall, and now it forms a second amongst this vertical tree Now if that tree could be buried with 30 feet of sediment you could easily accumulate the entire Grand Canyon stacked It is the explanation that and it actually defeats This is the single most and nobody seems to teach this in college or in the evolution world. - [Narrator] Evolutionists claim that the Earth is millions of years old, and one of their so-called proofs are stratified rock layers found Evolutionists teach that each layer represents millions of based upon their uniformitarian view that says you can make based upon processes today. But in doing so, you're assuming that there were no catastrophic Evolutionists also ignore the flood evidence contained like sea creatures mixed Just ask any coal miner. Anywhere on Earth they dig, they find countless sea You see, the Bible stating that it has only since the beginning of creation, giving the true account of how the sedimentary layers formed, as sedimentary rock is rock which is also incredible Given that the Earth's surface is made up mostly of water-formed the fact that the layers also explains why there in between the layers, as there would be if the layers took Then there's the issue of which could only occur if and soft at the time of the bending, which is exactly what a The bent layers also prove with multiple layers forming because the bottom layers would still have to be and didn't have enough time to dry out. As forces acted upon the layers, they bent in unison from top to bottom. Claiming these layers folded while still forming cannot explain what Only underwater rapid burial remembering that sedimentary rock layers, of which these are, are formed in water in the first place. To further prove that these rock layers were formed quickly and in the flood is the fact that in countless we find polystrate trees, poly meaning many and strate referring that these trees are running through. If you understand anything about how organic matter decomposes, you'll know that it's impossible for trees to remain intact while layers of dirt and and rain and moisture rot the wood out. Instead, what the evidence shows is that trees were swept up and as they became more Some trees would sink uniformly while other trees contained in what was left of their bottom roots. These trees would be bottom-heavy and float down to the Tsunami waves would carry in sediments that would bury the trees In fact, geologists discovered that the same sand from had been carried in tsunami waves all the way to the west This explains how the rock layers contain fossils of sea creatures and it also explains why the trees are missing and most importantly, running straight through that evolutionists are claiming Let's also not forget are the size of continents, indicating that these trees in a single and catastrophic event and not local floods at different times. Today, we assume that fossils are a normal part of the cycle of life since we see so many of Yet fossilization is not when something dies today. Thankfully, dead matter under normal conditions, but instead, God made dead matter to break down and return to the Earth. The fact that we see so that there was a worldwide event that caused mass fossilization at one point in time. Think about it. If the Earth today is water-formed sedimentary rock layers made up most of the rock on Earth. Inside those rock layers are sea creatures mixed Some of these sedimentary meaning they were formed Multiple layers are bent proving rapid burial events created them. We find trees spanning through and all over the globe, we find massive areas of erosion, such as great canyons carved out. It is obvious that God left as a testimony to the biblical flood. - The second most powerful evidence are the fossils that are in To produce a fossil especially for the larger requires complete burial and rapid burial, and that automatically speaks So the fact that we find so many of them with evidence that the animals were buried alive, is another powerful evidence - There's a lot of fossils in museums. In fact, the museums are full. They don't want any more fossils. The basements are full. Museums have collected and scientists suggest that in the rocks, and you could find these, there are trillions of fossils. If you see an animal die like a possum or a deer, pretty soon that deer The bones disintegrate, scavengers come, the mice eat the bones, 10 years later, it's just And yet there's these trillion fossils. Here's why we have a trillion fossils. There was this enormous flood. It was a worldwide flood. Tsunamis were racing across, and quickly burying these animals. As the flood receded, all this ocean water percolated that was covering the animals and provided the minerals to And that's how you get You have to have a worldwide flood. - The one thing we frequently observe is that the fossils have What do I mean by that? Well, we find all the For example, fish about and it's been buried. That tells you it had to be very rapid to preserve those details. In another example, we've got ichthyosaurs, some of these up to six feet long, and they've been buried in the process of giving birth to a baby. Another case of, you with an undigested fish in its stomach. The details of wings of wasps. - The wings are open, and the legs are in the flight position. What can we think about? They were flying. And those insects were trying to escape. They're trying to go somewhere, but they just got trapped of the waters of the flood, and that's why we can study them. - All these details require extremely rapid burial. It fits exactly with what the Bible says. It's consistent. The destruction of the catastrophic on a global scale, preserving these creatures caught in the action of doing something and the details exquisitely preserved. That's consistent with the - It may surprise you to learn that all of the rock layers of the world, the named rock layers like all of the layers of the world Huh, well, what greater that this was from a worldwide flood that there's saltwater Now this is in the How did these saltwater It would have to be a flood. Now the evolution where these saltwater creatures came from, how they got there. You're saying, Mr. Evolution Scientist, that there's saltwater and you're saying the oceans rose, covered the middle of the United went back up, went back at least a dozen times. Occam's Razor would say it's more simple to believe in one flood than more than a dozen worldwide floods. - It was in the 1980s that the secular geologists and move away from uniformitarianism as soon as it suited their needs. They went to catastrophism to help explain the - Noah's flood provides for the demise of the dinosaurs Simply because that event there's no way it could that would cause the the way we find them. And nobody in the secular They say, &quot;Well, it that caused the dinosaurs - If you go on Wikipedia today and look up dinosaur an asteroid sunk and hit the Earth, caused a global cooling because and the dinosaurs died out at that time. - We have simulations where we've thrown the right on the Earth using and then we get the subduction event, and we get the breakup of the lithosphere, and we start the earthquakes, Actually meteoric impacts could - But it has no power of these huge animals (introspective music) - [Narrator] In the 1980s, secular scientists began to theorize that it was an asteroid and wiped out nearly all The theory posits that massive tsunamis and as a result of the impact are what destroyed the in a worldwide disaster. Secular scientists could that water and volcanism in how life was once wiped out on Earth. But the Bible had already written that the Earth had been through volcanism and water. And they didn't want so they came up with their own catastrophic i.e., the asteroid impact theory. You see, the Bible's book of what happened in the past in detail, describing volcanic activity bursting open from the ocean floors, chronicling when the volcanic how long the rain poured, how high the waters reached, as well as giving the very reason why God judged and destroyed the world with the flood in the first place. You are essentially On the one hand, you have a book written giving an amazingly detailed that wiped out virtually On the other hand, you In this case, one that about 40 years ago due to the inadequacy of their that they know really didn't work. Both views require a catastrophic event with global implications, but only one has the the stratification of the Earth's surface and the trillions of fossils, along with cultures around the in their historical writings and legends, while the other merely rearranges elements from the true account to Think about it. The Bible already said long ago that the entire world's surface was destroyed catastrophically. They have no choice but The Bible said that the continents were once together in the beginning. It looks like they have to share that too. Nearly all animal life on Earth was wiped out during the destruction, a fact that they also couldn't ignore. Marine life was scattered The Bible says the waters went Secular scientists as to how to explain The Earth's original environment The pre-flood paradise was gone. In the secular model, they refer to this as the prehistoric world going extinct. And let's not forget that the flood set the for much of the world to be frozen over. Hot oceans produce evaporations Volcanoes send volumes of blocking the sun. Greater snowfall with cooler summers results in global ice sheets. Evolutionists have called the Ice Age. One of these is constantly as more and more evidence while the other was only invented after the evidence was unearthed. And further still, is also the prediction that In the second book of Peter, we are told that in the last days, which is the time fast approaching, unbelievers would be willingly meaning that secular men and women would consciously choose that allow them to push into the distant past, so long ago and so far away, it ceases to be scientific history and becomes scientific fantasy. The irony can only be The Bible makes it clear that the end times would be characterized by increasing unbelief of the and the flood event itself. Sadly, the religion of evolution are constantly updating while in the Bible, we are given the final, And as the evidence is the biblical account is (pensive music) - If you go to a museum today and look at the dinosaur displays, you'll notice that the animals with the dinosaurs. Have you ever seen a boa wrapped around a T-Rex's leg? No, but they have found boa Have you ever seen a box turtle at the feet of a stegosaurus? No, but they found box Have you ever seen a T-Rex No, but ducks have been All seven groups of animals today have been found with the dinosaurs, and they look the same. Museum displays don't show that. So if they actually put with the dinosaurs, people would look at &quot;Well, evolution hasn't occurred. It's just the dinosaurs went extinct.&quot; But scientists have from their dinosaur displays to promote the idea - You know, the soft tissue analysis in dinosaurs that's been recent has been a little bit of an that the Earth and universe is really old. Mary Schweitzer in the first found this, like, Elastic material means, you pull it and it reloads - Dinosaur soft tissue They don't want it really getting out. It's not in any of the textbooks. This lady cracked open or cut open one of the bones, and you could smell the putrefaction. Dinosaur bones shouldn't 'cause they've been dead for - Well, little bit later, at the horn of the triceratops, but he found bone the osteocytes that actually Strains are how much you deform something. It had up to almost 100% strain. - Muscle tissue in the and it was like dinosaur beef jerky on the leg bone of a dinosaur. It was the actual muscle. - And this Thescelosaurus We started looking inside of this bone, and we found, using scanning that it had elastic You pull it apart, and it goes back. If this was mineralized or it was a fossil that became a rock, you couldn't do this. So it was never mineralized, It was still elastic, meaning That means this thing is not - The biblical account expects So like what was it? Bone marrow. - Red blood cells. - Cartilage. - Collagen. - The hemoglobin. - And muscle fiber proteins. These things shouldn't be able to last but a hundred thousand years tops, but these things were a Okay, 68 million years old, but The amino acids in the protein strands would unbuckle and fall and there is no explanation to this day, nothing that makes any and it's just been left as an anomaly. Neil deGrasse Tyson interviewed Mary Schweitzer and some others and then turned the attention They tried to distract the attention away from the red blood cells. The medullary layer was there, showing that the T-Rex was, at the time, carrying eggs. That's really what we call a shell game, a smoke and mirrors game, a dog and pony show meant to distract away from which was there were proteins in that T-Rex bone. Now Mark Armitage, working did find soft tissue inside and when he published that (laughs) So they are willingly ignorant, squelching the truth, and this is actually not science. This is propaganda. Now we're talking about thought They wanted to fire him because they felt that this when really he had only brought forth a scientific discovery. (riveting music) - [Narrator] In 1993, a featured a rather famous scene in which the remains of an encased in a ball of hardened amber. The film goes on to explain that the way scientists could resurrect the dinosaurs from the past was by extracting blood from the remains inside this mosquito, in which dinosaur DNA by combining what was missing with that of a modern-day frog. This idea came about the writer Michael Crichton was struggling to come up with a concept to explain how dinosaurs could somehow be brought back in his book of the same title. What the &quot;Jurassic Park&quot; was the discovery of soft tissue a finding that has since been replicated by other scientists, such as this stretching triceratops tissue discovered by Mark Armitage. These discoveries shocked the entire paleontological community and would likely have rewritten the original &quot;Jurassic Park&quot; film had they known this was In fact, scientists have when attempting to publish these findings because of the wholesale rejection that dinosaur soft tissue The consensus at the time agreed that it was completely impossible because everyone held that the bones were millions of years old, which would require that had long since fossilized. There was simply no way that these dinosaur bones like blood vessels and In fact, of these 16 types that have since been discovered collagen by itself ends the debate on these bones being as the maximum age of collagen is as low as 10,000 and as high as 900,000 years by others, with 100,000 years being the generally To put this into perspective, if each of these tiny bars represents a period of 100,000 years, then only one of these bars represents the maximum age If we zoom out to the time span then we can see that is 1,000 times shorter than the general age evolutionists Or another way to say it is that collagen doesn't even last .001% as long as it would have to in order for evolution theory to work, proving that it's not even remotely within the realm of possibility that collagen could survive for so long. The relatively short proves what the Bible has been saying about these bones all along, that they're roughly 4,400 years old and were buried all over the world around the time of Noah's flood. (dramatic music) As the floodwaters began to recede, the Earth was in a state of chaos. Dinosaur graveyards like these would later be found all over the Earth, and secular paleontologists agree that these worldwide sites The state the bones are found in all show evidence of flood burial. And now you understand exactly water that would eventually dry up because it didn't belong The whole Earth would as vegetation would slowly grow back and water would find its Sadly, the Earth that was once a perfect habitat for dinosaurs was now irrevocably ruined, and those dinosaurs that would be hunted to extinction over time. We know them as dinosaurs, but legend would remember them as dragons. And so it was that on the 17th day of the 7th month, &quot;the ark rested upon the It was a little over a that Noah, his family, would finally step onto dry land again. This group of eight people just as legends around the world cite in their historical literature. And science would later prove that this genetic exactly as the Bible - In terms of looking at we know that history can Myth, as a core idea, cannot It doesn't go the other way. History can become more historical. Myth becomes more mythical. And if you start with You can never go the other way. So we can see, as a genre, - There's been about 200 flood traditions discovered by anthropologists and many of these flood that don't even live near the ocean. - There are hundreds of flood but in many of these cases, you have huge similarities You have one righteous and the reason for the flood The gods were angry at something - They all talk about on some kind of a boat. There are lots of similarities, but the true account is in Genesis. Some of the evidence of that is just in the description of the ark. The Babylonian Gilgamesh Epic has a cube for the ark. Well, that would just roll in the water, and everything would die. - The biblical account has a flood that its duration is 371 days. But when we come to the Gilgamesh Epic, it's merely six days. It only took one week where it took Noah probably 55 years or something in that range - The biblical account and these other stories are the result of people migrating from the and preserving in their memory an echo of the true account And the farther they moved and any contact with the true account, the more the story got And so that explains the differences as well as the similarities. - The biblical account, by all measure, stands independent from the others. So they certainly had a There was an event that happened. - We've actually recorded that are very similar to Babel, where people were trying and the gods were angry or God was angry and forced them to scatter And then from Genesis 12 onward, we don't see similarities anymore. There's no Abraham legend. There's no Isaac legend or David legend or anything like that. But Genesis 1 through 11, people all around the Why? Well, because what the and up until Genesis mankind had a shared history. And then they took that history with them, and they passed it along, and it gets distorted as the years go by. After the flood, God tells him to be fruitful and the same sort of thing So, in a sense, man gets to start over. And yet what do we see just The people refuse to scatter. - They said, &quot;No, we're in the Mesopotamian Valley,&quot; and they began to build a tower. They had a one-world government. Genesis 11 tells us that God by supernaturally creating to force the people to move apart, according to their families, People then who were biologically, began to marry within And from what we know of genetics, that would bring out recessive and physical characteristics But the Bible is very clear. There's only one race, Adam's race. Paul says that God made &quot;all the nations to dwell So there's absolutely no basis for saying that one group of people with a certain shade of brown skin are superior or inferior who have a different shade of brown skin. We have no basis to hate people because, in reality, everybody So if I were gonna hate people I'd have to hate everybody. So we should be loving and accepting because we're all descended from the same couple, Adam and Eve. - Now the interesting thing that humanity started in the Middle East, which we'd expect if the All these languages seem to have diverged from about that region. (ethereal music) - [Narrator] As what rested in the mountains of Ararat, God made a covenant with Noah, promising him and all of his posterity that He would never and all life on it with a flood. Then God blessed Noah and his sons and commanded them to once again multiply and spread out upon the Earth. But on the plains of Shinar, and instead they came and a great tower they intended in an ultimate act of rebellion and rejection of God. (ominous music) But God came down and put a stop to their tower by dividing their once unified language into many languages. And out of confusion and fear, they stopped building the tower and dispersed into what would become the nations of the world. (pensive music) It was within a few centuries after Noah and his family that the people of the but today, there are over which trace back to an that each belongs to. For example, Italian can its root language family. However, when linguists attempted to trace the root language they encountered a serious problem. The language families would otherwise known as language isolates. This directly contradicts that evolutionists were expecting to find or what some linguists theoretically call the elusive proto-world language. Instead, what they find that seemed to have unless, of course, you factor at the Tower of Babel, which provides an incredible explanation evolutionists refuse to accept. Further still, consider that when you trace something very telling occurs. Many of the earliest languages trace back to one location on Earth, a place commonly referred to Mesopotamia. And what's also revealing is that the timeframe of many languages also trace back to that which is just after the in the third millennium BC. Furthermore, linguists believe that approximately 94 should exist in theory, and they also believe that as more research leads to more mergers. By no coincidence, there are in the biblical table of nations recorded in the Bible around What are the odds that the so closely reflect the the Bible lists at the And what's more is that also have myths and legends of both an ancient flood and a time when their ancestors These stories, of course, vary, but the core elements with the Cherokee and other even including that their much earlier in history, as only one example of hundreds. In like fashion, human a similar pattern to the languages, as the genes extracted from the so-called Bronze Age era revealed that the further back in time you go, the less genetic mixing there was, with their data showing relatively around the time of Babel, which, of course, is no coincidence. Only God's supernatural the multifaceted bottleneck we see across so many fields of science. It was at this event that God changed the entire course of It was also after Babel that God instituted human government. And at a time when by those wishing to establish it is important to remember that it was God who divided It was God who was against the mankind was beginning to fashion. And as any historian will tell you, history has a way of repeating itself. - When we come to the story of Noah's Ark, it's more than just a story. It certainly is a part of vital history. There was an ancient world, and that ancient world, was destroyed by a flood. And that was the judgment Since man is not changed, there is yet a future judgment coming. - It'll be just as it They'll be giving and taking in marriage. - They were having families. They were doing their work. They were just living life as normal. They didn't believe the The flood did come, and - Before the flood, people and married and given in marriage, with a total disregard to to what was being preached to them, to all the things around them. - And Jesus says just before He returns, people will be in rebellion, ignoring God, just going on living their They will be surprised when - There was a judgment that happened, and there's a judgment that is coming, and we need to be prepared. - The Bible does talk about Biblical evil, if you look at all of the different would be idolatry, witchcraft, the occultism, demon and the perversions that - Public schools now are teaching against the idea of marriage. They want to corrupt the long before they've at the earliest possible age. Not just sexualized, but sexualized in terms of all - Of course, we have the sins of Moloch, the burning of children, the plague of sex trafficking, and the exploitation of the vulnerable. These things are the evils and they're become more prevalent and even massively institutionalized. It's a very good sign. Not a good sign, but an accurate sign that we're in the same kind of darkness that was in the days of Noah. And you see that we are When's the Lord coming back? The Bible says that nobody knows, but when it comes, everyone's like lightning across the sky. And I tell you, I want Who doesn't like being on I know in this case, it's especially vital in the eternity sense. Eternity is a timeless thing. We don't understand infinity, but we do know it's permanent. The second coming is a but it's also a time of judgment. It's also a time of finality. It's also a time of justice. - Just as the flood came suddenly, so the second coming of Just as the flood was certain, so the second coming of Christ is certain and will actually happen. That judgment of the flood is a warning of the judgment to come. (suspenseful music) - [Narrator] Jesus Christ and influential person But what has made so many believe that He is who He says He was, God in human flesh, the Savior of mankind, the Messiah who was You see, the Bible is that has repeatedly proved by virtue of telling us For example, around 626 BC, Jeremiah the prophet predicted Jerusalem and the temple and the Babylonians would taking them captive And shortly after his that's exactly what Then there's Isaiah who wrote that Babylon's a king who wouldn't be And in 539 BC, the formidable city's to a king named Cyrus and his army. And, as foretold, Babylon was destroyed, which both Jeremiah and Isaiah And then there's the in which he predicted the claiming that He would come 483 years after a decree would which is exactly the time And when it comes to Jesus there are hundreds concerning Him alone. Scripture said that the Messiah that the Christ would live in Galilee. He would teach parables, be betrayed for 30 pieces of silver. And it was even prophesied not stoned to death, at a time when crucifixion Furthermore, there are other that also tell us the His birth had to happen before the scepter of Judah departed, while the temple was still standing, but before it would be destroyed. And very notably, He had to come while genealogical records still existed to prove His lineage was Those records perished when the temple was destroyed in 70 AD. Strikingly, Jesus Christ walked the Earth during exactly the critical period when a multitude of prophecies You see, Jesus warned us the time we are now on the threshold of, there would come a false messiah who would deceive many into believing that he is the one prophesied about. Scripture refers to this false The Bible says that during this short the antichrist and his will rise to power. Much like what happened this singular entity will rule with nationalism in many as their sovereignty will collapse into a single system of total control. &quot;Many who don't think and believe,&quot; as the antichrist declares, &quot;will not be able to buy or sell. Many will be put to death.&quot; Today, a mass global where individuals irrespective of politics discern the burgeoning that is developing all around them, with many recognizing that hyperinflation, lawlessness, and acts of nature are appearing to be a deliberate transition, as we are on the cusp of a time the Bible calls the Great Tribulation. It's a time in which God back on Israel, specifically as Israel is at the center of many of the biblical prophecies which have yet to be fulfilled. Even now, we can already see one such prophecy found in Zechariah in which God said that in the last days, He would make Israel a nation of distress to all the nations surrounding it. Incredible insight when considering that such a small spot on of a coming global war. And as the climactic end to the Lord's return and Out of profound love, God postponed His Son's You see, mankind are all guilty of committing terrible If each person were to give on their own merit, they would certainly But here's the good news. God's masterful plan, as reveals that while humanity collectively inherited condemnation through one man's disobedience, Adam, they can now find through the obedience of If one man can bring death then it follows that a sinless through His obedience. Thankfully, God in His wisdom and mercy has given us a simple and easy way to be justified in His sight, and that is through His Son, Jesus Christ. (ethereal music) - The Bible tells us that Adam sinned, and because of Adam's sin, we are all born sinners, but we also choose to sin. We choose to rebel against God. Every one of us has broken in thought or word or deed, through the evil that we have done or the good that we have failed to do, through ignorance, through weakness, or through our own deliberate fault. We're all guilty before God. We all deserve His judgment. And the Bible says in Romans that the wages of sin or And so God sent His Son, to die on the cross to take the wrath of God for and then He rose from the dead, proving that He had paid that penalty, that He had conquered death, and that He could give us eternal life. We need to respond to what No one can respond for us. We must each personally acknowledge to God that we have sinned against Him, that we deserve His judgment, and then put our trust in Jesus Christ as our Savior and our Lord. And when we do that, we're forgiven. We're restored to a right to a personal relationship with God, and we're given the gift of eternal life. - We've heard that the Ark of Noah was an ark constructed for It had one door in it, and That was done by design. God also only has one way of salvation. That way of salvation in the ark was to preserve them which was the flood. And someone had to trust in God and accept Him and come His way, which was that one way into the ark, in order to be saved. The real problem for us It's God. It's that we're wanting to come to someone who now tells us what we need. We need His salvation. Tells us we're sinners, Tells us we need to depend upon Him. And I think ultimately, we are not what we should be, that there is a God who We certainly didn't do it. All the creation, all the all the things that exist simply argue there is a creator. If that's the case, then we're creatures. And what better place for the creature than in a relationship with the creator? The creator made that possible by Himself going through all but ultimately dying in our place because that's what our sin deserved. Jesus Himself said, in John 14:6, He said, &quot;I am the way, I am the and no one comes to the So if we come to the one the one who came to and we trust Him and take Him at His word, He says, &quot;I will save you. That's the way to God, and I'm the way. Come to me and you have all eternal life, a relationship with God.&quot; And everything that beyond in this life, there's a whole life yet to come that God has promised (stirring music) - [Narrator] 2,000 years ago, God the Father sent His Son to the world to usher in a new era of righteousness and peace. But they rejected the true Messiah. They hated the very one whom the Bible says created love, joy, beauty, and life itself. They took and crucified Him in the very place He was to But God the Father raised Him from the dead and made His sacrifice the salvation for many. For Jesus Christ is the light of the world, and in Him is no darkness. (stirring music) (pensive music) (pensive music) (pensive music) (pensive music) (pensive music) (pensive music) (pensive music) (pensive music) (pensive music) (pensive music) (ethereal music) (ethereal music) (ethereal music) (ethereal music) (ethereal music) (ethereal music) (ethereal music) (ethereal music) (ethereal music) (ethereal music) (ethereal music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (dynamic music) (no audio)