Oh, my gosh... Yury, you rock! I couldn't miss his bathing in this swimming pool, video! Can you see it? Good morning, and I'm traveling around Siberia right now. The a look, the winter is really stunning Only 4 hours by plane and welcome Rather cute airport! I haven't been What about coffee, guys? I wasn't sleeping the during the flight. I see the price for airport! Wow, the monument to the Nazis! I see, my luggage is coming, it looks like Wow, not bad, not bad, just have a look! Up to date, modern dear friends, if you hear the word &quot;Siberia&quot;, what Welcome to Siberia, guys! It is so good, that And you see everything is so clean and a little bit Orange... And I see a separate garbage for litter, And, of course, Cafe with Siberian pelmeni! Who told Oh, guys, it's already morning in Siberia, of Moscow time! And let me introduce you best guide in Siberia. If you want to Masha! Russian Orthodox culture is Russia. Oh, guys, have you ever heard about the but it looks great even under the station, which provides electricity region! During the Second World War or Great factories were evacuated to Siberia, and of course station has been working since the middle continental. It's to my liking, guys! I have been say that there are four different seasons, not minus 50 sometimes! Summer is summer with Thanks a lot! And we have a wonderful, blooming Siberia! But the morning starts with Oh, my dear viewers, almost in every of our Russian Orthodox culture, great Surrounded by taiga forest, wonderful authentic Cathedral! Oh, my little dog! something? You're very very beautiful! Yes, She's waiting! Russian people adore pets! Enjoy your meal! My dear viewers, I had a hard times but this place is worth seeing and we are alone here! I see professional lifeguards with It's very sacred place living here, like to drink water from this holy spring! Some people think that, it's okay to winter... And many people think , that the winter sufferings.... but not Siberian people!!! We like things to do during the winter! And I want to you have never seen before. Siberian harmony. Really I had difficulties I couldn't miss this wonderful The nature here, in Siberian taiga, is adorable! Who asked me to show you a real welcome to Siberian wilderness! Together with me! It's something fantastic, I'm like a fairy tale! Such a high snow drifts! The symbol of But where is my friend Guys, I want to introduce you an amazing man, the name of the founder of Moscow - Yury Dolgoruky, if weather, despite the snow or rain, cold or heat, spring, and bathes in this swimming pool! ice hole. I know exactly, he's a little the Water is coming, you see, And he's waiting for few minutes pool! In fact, Yury is a professional Is it possible to take a bath now? One... two...three... The coldest water, I have ever tried... oh yes! You are the best! Russians are brave people! I can't believe my eyes! It seems to me, it's not cold, he's not cold! It's his practice every Can you see it? I have no comments! My dear friends, swimming in the Siberians. You may be sure, it improves your swimming and bathing in the ice holes takes celebrate Epiphany? On the 19th of January. You're Yury feels good! And looking at our people My dear viewers, we have a lot of birthday why I buy flowers. This is for me, not for me, it's a tradition, very good tradition flowers. Flower shops are working in flower shops, you can buy even It's natural and its price is about Just have a look, it's so pretty! It's already decorated! Have a look, my dear viewers, A wonderful bouquet! These small winter! And I'm thinking about buying The price for my flowers is about 4,000 rubles, I like it! I adore flowers, outside! Yeah, it's awesome, so romantic! And we paper, because, you know, that it's very very cold Siberia is very mysterious land, full of of my ancestors!!! Vast forests and enormous fields,