Ladies and gentlemen, John Heffron. - I wanna be canceled. Here's the deal, canceled than non-canceled comics. Don't you understand what's happening? People get canceled on purpose and people get, &quot;Oh, I hate that guy. Here's some money, guy I But the problem with me is for 33 years and I've I've never looked at another I've never made fun of race, But I wanna be canceled. But I can't, I am the You'll enjoy me, you'll probably vacuum you're gonna have a but when you leave, you're And I've accepted that. And I could tell right Matchbox 20 was very popular in the 90s. I don't have a lot of time but I could tell immediately, I wanna push you around, yes I wow Kid's not allowed his phone, he was about to shazam me singing. Okay so, I don't know, how old are you? - Uh, I'm 23. - 23, so 23, great age, it's throughout the show, Okay so, I'm not 23, but okay, I don't know I'm not smarter than you, life to me, is like a Netflix series, I'm just 30 some seasons ahead of you. Okay, so I have some spoilers. Even hearing that song, I when Matchbox 20 is an old reference. It's not like I said, you know, Toto. Steely Dan, I didn't even do that stuff. I literally go Matchbox 20, thinking that was still a hip reference. So listen, usually I look way but here's what happened. I was staying at the so I could get a little bit of sleep, but there are some type staying at my hotel. I have a theory, travel for parents who wanna swing. Saying it right now. I don't have a way to end that you're being an asshole if you make a kid run around I had to say. I was all worried about this special 'cause I still have COVID You guys remember COVID? Okay, this thing happened. Like you don't know, like every city you go everybody has different, Like some states didn't &quot;What, what happened?&quot; Right? And doesn't it feel like it's weird because you a year and a half ago or two years ago, everyone's perception is so off. Remember like &quot;Tiger King?&quot; Doesn't that feel like Right, doesn't it feel I watched &quot;Tiger King,&quot; &quot;The Grind,&quot; and &quot;Real World: Season Three.&quot; True story. So anyway, right? By the way we're getting to do a little hot yoga after the thing just to let everybody know. Once this room gets 140 degrees, we're gonna pass mats out to everybody and we're gonna start with some stretches and then we're kinda go. That's why it's uh, that hot in here. Right? So, I gained 20 pounds And I don't do 25 pounds Like, just to show you when I was in high school, I Show you what a monster I was, right? I even jumped up to 112 to see what those Vikings had in 'em. See what the real men were So an extra 20 pounds on me, with skinny legs and skinny arms, It just goes right here. I just look like Kermit the Frog. Right? And so, you know, COVID lasted a while. I had a lot of smoked Gouda. Literally, I was up to Easy, a puck of, a night. So it was all right here, and then once COVID kind of whatever, I started doing a lot and they kinda make when you do those. So I put on this like suit and it was tailored to So it stuck out like this, I'm like, I don't know how I'm gonna do my show, I'm gonna like suck it in, go like this, and just get on stage and in one breath. Just, Right so, I decided to buy these things and I didn't know what they are, I just saw 'em just online and I was like, this is interesting. I'm not wearing one tonight, but I bought these things, you're looking at me as I bought this shirt, Okay, if you don't know what Spanx are, it's an undershirt that pulls 'em back, pushes gets your side fat in a little, pushes in your ponch, and does I don't know exactly. Does a lot of work right there, right? So, but they almost feel If you ever go scuba diving it's this rubbery type of rash guard. So I knew I was in having a hard time, like, and then I stuck one hand through this, and then I stuck my other and then I'm like, I'm stuck. Like, I am so stuck. And my hands were like, So like the last time I've I think I was being born. It was weird. And then I'm like, well if I go, I can come out backwards and go breach. Right, I guess I could do that. And then, I finally to come through like and then I grabbed the shirt and I pulled it all the way down, okay, and then when I would let go of it, it would go You know like those blinds when you go and it goes It literally just kept bouncing back up, but at the same time it it felt like my stomach So then, it looks like I have and then my big gut sticking out, I felt like getting some cutoff jeans, just this cigarette, walk around, you don't tell me what to do with my baby! You don't tell me what to And then, I was like, I thought, man, ever just think you're gonna, Just for whatever reason Like you just, for a second, I thought I was gonna be like 'cause I'm like, you know they need to put a snap here. And then I'm gonna put a snap at the back- I could just find a way to I'm gonna be like, I was like, oh man. Come out of the bathroom, I'm like, I just invented this thing, it's gonna be a button, I'm gonna snap it, it's gonna be like that, My wife goes, &quot;Did you I mean, once I was 112 pounder. She's like, &quot;Yeah, That snap's been there forever.&quot; I'm like, well I never got to I don't know, somehow I'm I just... On a Saturday night, That was &quot;Flash Dance.&quot; And, that was a documentary about welding. If you ever wanna just feel what it feels like to be a welder, and be torn with a life decision. Yeah, I can't believe I gained, like, oh and then when I pulled the shirt down, it eventually worked, but then my stomach stuck out even more, right, so then I started, like whatever the technical percussing? I'm like thunk thunk, thunk thunk, and I thought if I hit it, remember like those cinnamon where she's tear it off and go right? Then I thought all my and then the cream cheese I'm like aw man, I'm just That seems easier. But it was weird, like when there were some states and you had to go work them and perform at them to make money, right? And every state was different the COVID run type of states, and this was back when that leaned into not getting vaccinated. Their whole thing was, &quot;I'm like big, famous comics were You don't even know what's in those shots. Go get your shots, sheep, you don't even know what the And I just look at some of 'em, going, I've seen you do shitty I think it's kinda funny. I'll go to CVS and give 'cause you know what I'm not worried about that's in that shot? So load me up every time. Matter of fact, couple days ago, I just had my shingles shot. Holy crap, I don't know Let me just tell you right now, you go, &quot;I'll take the shingles shot,&quot; they take the dullest and they stab you with it, The guy takes a pencil from That's a shingles shot. I mean, I'm 53. I got a circle, I don't know, I got a vax, like a vaccination when I I still have the scar. It's a circle with about I think it's for small pox. I don't know when they did I think we just walked and the principal was like, &quot;Hey guys, uh, everybody just go in the library, we're getting class pictures.&quot; And everybody is like, okay, and there were dudes in deer stands Oh fuck, this is the &quot;Hunger Games&quot; before &quot;Hunger Games&quot; is even a movie. Ah, don't go to the library! Right, but then I got called, or asked to like perform at &quot;But but, aren't you afraid of COVID?&quot; They're like, &quot;No, there's no COVID here.&quot; Like- I landed in Florida and and the guy who picks just is a close talker, &quot;Hi. It's gonna be a good week. Hey afterwards, the staff's having an Sounds horrible, I won't be going. &quot;Oh, oh okay, oh. Want my Chapstick?&quot; No, I'm good. COVID. 'Cause I live in Michigan where they just scared Just every time you turn on the news, &quot;Don't go outside! Do not go outside. If you have a dog, your dog You wanna feed your send it, your dog will Don't FaceTime your grandma or everyone on your data plan is dead. And then three of their It's a whole, it's like a pyramid scheme 'til everybody's dead.&quot; Right? It was scary because like, I like when you got to these like 'cause before COVID kind of happened, I bought a old farm house and moved from Los and before I bought this old farmhouse, I went to this condo community, I'm like, I wanna buy one of these condos. It was on a golf course, everything you could ever want, went up to the person who sells 'em, I'm like, I want that house. They go, &quot;Can I ask you how old you are? And I go, I'm 40 something, and they go, &quot;Oh, you have And I'm like, well what if 'Cause I do a lot of 65 year old shit. So you might wanna lawyer I got a pick-a-ball tournament I got pants that zip off into shorts. 99% of my shoes are slip-on. Talk about 65. Man, I'm getting older, like, there's a lot of, I'm new to glasses. I don't know if people wear glasses, what the record is for on the top of your head while you're looking for reading glasses. So far, I'm up to three. I've done this move, I've looked for glasses I also lose remote controls You ever do that, every and you're like, &quot;Where, where?&quot; And my first move is I 'Cause that's where I keep, I just go right to the crotch, right? So I bought this old farm in Michigan. My house was built in 1820, I believe, so it's a little old, there was no crops around it, but like right now, my house is scary 'cause it's nothin' but corn, and when I was growing up, There was one corn movie where that's a good corn movie. All right, and then there's where it's &quot;Children of the Corn,&quot; where Malachi and his friends went around and they killed old people. But when I first saw that movie, I loved it because I yeah, fuck old people. Kill 'em all. But now I live exactly like that, right? And having a house, having a house that's 200 years old, I've been playing this game where I set the thermostat for 71, I mean, right now it's set at 110, but at home I would set it for like 71, and then I'd walk around is actually 71. It's a fun game, like I have one of those so I'll holster it and and I'll just practice and I'll be like 73 degrees in that room. Walk in another one, oh, 32 in that one. Man, that's a lot of coming out of this room. Pretty sure a tornado's My stairs going upstairs, but they identify as a ladder. I mean, these things are and you could actually put as you go up, but what's fun, and you have to do it one time, coming down the stairs, because you will fall, okay? Because people in the 1800s, their feet- Were like this big. I mean, walking down my steps is like putting your My calves are getting crushed. But when you fall, you do this it's a real scary little, like that, you're like, oh, and you pee I've also been playing this called the &quot;Guess What That's an awesome game. I would like to apologize to that I thought I didn't like and I would like to apologize. Like possum, possums look scary, and when you see a possum, and nobody gives a to your newborn baby to You get a little bear, would eat your kid in about two seconds. Okay, but you put an animal and you're like, I'm okay with that, possums just look gross. Okay, possums are good animals, they do a lot of stuff in They deal with a lot of mice, and every once in a while, and they're in your trash, and the possum's like &quot;You don't know what happens out here! Your candy ass is in there, while I'm dealing with the real world! Go back into your bubble!&quot; Okay, I'll say this, chipmunks are dicks. There you go, cancel me, You were looking for John Heffron thinks chipmunks are dicks. And if you're like, &quot;No,&quot; that's 'cause you're thinking You think chipmunks, you leather jacket, you're not thinking of the and have illegal bowling tournaments. These tournaments are not sanctioned, none of the wins should count. They shouldn't go against anything. I hear the balls rolling And now Wednesday's karaoke night. It's a pain in the ass. I one time freaked out so much 'cause all I heard was I have a couple pew pews, and light up a wall, I was and then I was going YouTube and I was gonna look how to get There are way more videos And not from crusty looking old guys, too. This young, blond with a diva-like ring in their eyes, &quot;Hi guys, welcome to my channel. Don't forget to hit the subscribe button and make sure you hit the bell so you get notifications every time. And make sure you go to my podcast or go to my Patreon page. So anyway, your boyfriend and now you have bullet holes on the wall. Here's-&quot; &quot;Here's what you do.&quot; I uh, it was weird once I and you know what I should do, because even though I'm for a bunch of stuff, I think to stay in the comic union, I have to do a six minute COVID chunk because I have nothing on record that I've ever even talked about it. So I have to do it now. Here's my take on COVID 'cause you've heard a from every comic, but here's my take, there are kids that are born today, okay, that will know nothing about COVID 'cause they're born, literally today. 15 years from now, they're about what we just went through, right? And they're gonna ask Now listen, this is they're teaching science Okay? So we'll just assume, let's just assume- There's a secret society that teaches real history and real science somewhere in the thing, right because by then, you're probably not allowed for some reason. Right, so just they're of the seven's times tables 'cause like, we don't say seven anymore. We don't say seven. Seven is not something we say. Cool for me, I hate seven. And America, right, so it's old thing, so, so those kids, those are gonna ask their parents, &quot;Mom, how come Nana and Papa like to eat outside in a parking lot?&quot; What? &quot;It's 11 degrees outside and Papa built an igloo out of plastic and they're eating chicken &quot;Oh, well that's because and during COVID, you ate in their parking lots, then that's when the COVID would get ya. So you'd eat horrible food, outside.&quot; &quot;Well, at least were not &quot;Oh, so people couldn't go &quot;Nope, that's when you got it, especially if you were inside after 10:00, then the nighttime COVID came and got ya.&quot; &quot;Oh, okay, so you weren't &quot;Nope, everybody had to stay outside. Well, unless you're at unless you're at Target, Walmart, Costco, then they could have and thousands of people come What COVID hated was the &quot;So that's why they had to shut down. It's the mom and pop pizzeria that sat 11 people on a good July day, that's why they shut down.&quot; &quot;Okay, I get it.&quot; And the age group I were the kids that were seniors Right, they missed out, to me, they missed out on the most stuff, and a lot of them don't not having to experience things you've been looking and having it not happen, and if you don't close that loop, some of those kids are based upon this thing that's So some of 'em are going to be, you know, 30 years from now, 50 and the bartender's gonna be &quot;I never had a prom.&quot; &quot;When I graduated, my Right, and it was difficult, like you forget what a difficult time we just all went through. Like you kinda blow it off now, but there was some moments especially if you had working at home, all right, like right? And you know, when you got married and you said all the and 'til death do you part, you said that, thinking, &quot;Their &quot;55 hours a week, right? Like, I'll say yes to all of that, but they're going to be Then halfway through they and there was an update and you just scrolled all the way so you could keep going, no, 24 hours a day for two years straight. They are gonna be right next to you. How many times did you get in Just being, just being, just being? You're just standing in your own house and you got yelled at for standing. Right, it's not like the right, getting numbers written on matches, we used to start fire with matches. You're literally at your house and how many times did and your spouse is right &quot;You know I'm making a sandwich, why are you in front of that cupboard?&quot; &quot;I'm looking for something to eat.&quot; &quot;We're eating in seven hours.&quot; I don't know if that &quot;Out, out of the kitchen! If you're not helping with dinner, everybody out of the kitchen The husband and the dog Just the wife and the cat and Yeah, fuck those two. We should buy a little condo. Those two add no value And then, you were forced, right? Now you have to live with each other, which was tough enough Then, if you add kids to that scenario, right now all of us, remember? You all became teachers. Right, it wasn't some of your plans, but then suddenly the whole entire, just the whole school system No, I can't, I can't teach him anything. I have a masters degree, do you know the only with all the learning I've ever done? Carry the one. First to 12th grade, that stuck for whatever reason. I don't know how to spell all the there's. I think there should be one spelling. Just seems like too much work to figure out all the different ones. And I'm sick of giving people I'm sick of that, I'm every time I try to post something It just should be a symbol So now you're trying to And we gave every kid in the just like a sub, not like a sub, like that's a bad thing, Remember when your school here's how you knew, 'cause and you saw a cart with a TV on it. You're like &quot;Oh yeah, a cart with a TV. Man, I'm making Chinese I'm gonna make so many footballs all day.&quot; And then you'd hit that top loader and that British guy and you're like, &quot;Yeah, right.&quot; Van Halen symbol all day. So, right? so now, you as a parent, you're so I'll do my Zoom meetings here.&quot; By the way, I had to do a during COVID and I part of my soul, I don't know or what you have to do to but it's gone. Right, the first one you did, you're like, I'll do it, what's it like? I did one Zoom show, I did the whole thing exactly how I thought I like one of the first ones I'm talking and talking, I just hear a voice, &quot;Sir,&quot; okay, he goes, &quot;we've been in the lobby.&quot; I go, I just did 20 minutes of material, like talked for 20 minutes, &quot;No, we lost connection.&quot; I go, why didn't you tell me? And the kid, just being nice goes, &quot;I just thought you wanted to practice.&quot; Part of my soul just You know what I realized they They need a peddle to where you're like, later, bam, you're out, 'cause than you trying to click And also, I realize it's dumb because we so if they're like, &quot;Hey and you're like, hi Janice, hi. He's AFK, no it's pepper, hm, right? It's like it's a weird, there needs to be like a like every sporting event. They're like, &quot;Janice from accounting,&quot; and it's just a picture Right, and it's Derek from shipping. So you're all stuck, right, in this house, and now, you as a parent, you have to do your Zoom meetings here and then you, as the other parent, have to do your Zoom meetings there, and then you've got a kid, you're like, okay, you do your classes in that corner. 5th graders, you do your stuff in there. Living rooms, that's where I'll build a shed out where we can sit out &quot;Fuck these kids, yetch, they're doomed. We should drive 'em right I was actually at a who was about to go away to school, came to tell him that he right, because of COVID, and those two did not get My buddy had a little check mark of when his son was gonna leave, and they had that kid's room Airbnb-ed, like, the hour after It was all planned and that kid comes into the room &quot;I just got a, what? What? Oh, I just got an email from school. I'm not supposed to go I don't know, people are I'm supposed to stay here.&quot; Wait, what are you saying to me? &quot;I'm not supposed to go to school.&quot; But I just spent $20,000 Do you know if I get that back? &quot;I don't know.&quot; Is that something you can figure out? &quot;It's your money, like-&quot; &quot;Why do I gotta figure it out?&quot; You ever talk to a none of these muscles on their faces, like none of these muscles and then any time you tell their body flinches, like Hey man, can you get the trashcan at the bottom of the driveway and put it in the garage for me, please? &quot;What, why do I gotta do it now, what? I wasn't even going outside. I don't even throw things away.&quot; I remember when I started I was so excited, it's 'cause you're a comic, talking to all my comic friends, going, &quot;Oh man, are we ever People were doing shows in and then we would like, you're just trying to figure out, like, right, bastardizing comedy, just having it happen &quot;Hey, you got this gig, it's in a pool, everyone goes underwater, and however long you can hold your breath, that's what your set is.&quot; You're like, ah, &quot;I got this gig, you're in a hot air balloon and you just kinda, with the megaphone, and you just yell at the cities.&quot; It pays like 50 bucks for like an hour,&quot; and you're like, &quot;I haven't seen a check, I'll do the balloon gig,&quot; right? It got sad. So I remember, like once it took me about a week, oh yeah, some fun, I'm and then by week two, about everything came right back, like I didn't even miss a beat. There's so many things that One, temperature of a comedy club- That's one. Another one, and it hasn't so I'm not saying it, the servers are louder than So you're kind of battling that, right, and then they take the beer you hear them in back playing Corn Hole. You just hear, smash, smash, right? I did a show back, and I was pretty rusty where I was even nervous about 'cause I hadn't performed And I get on stage, I'm there's a woman sitting, it wasn't you, but if you were to put together an arch villain of a comedy club, she was everything possible. You know what I mean? a one person bachelorette party of 12 in one person level of annoyance, right? Like, after every joke, she cosigned, which means that I'll say something and then she has to either yes or no it. I don't do that, I don't I don't think it's hot in She's the person on Facebook who has to comment under every post. Sometimes you can keep scrolling. Right? So she's commenting after everything I say and it was just kinda getting annoying, and then she was eating loud That was making it almost so I'm literally performing like this. Right? And she's slurping and the other I see her hands just doing this, as she's slurping, as she's doing this, I'm like, okay, this lady, she's eating, and she's just, she has but it was, you know, it well, maybe she hasn't Like, she's feral, right? Maybe this woman like lived in the woods and they're bringing her into society and this is how they're kinda showing her. This is how humans are, right? Don't bite anybody, like, so, she's slurping and and here's what makes me crazy, she gets the plate of wings that she has and she set it on the stage. Okay, the rage that I had, I wish I could've bottled in case anybody ever's I would be able to go, conk. Especially with my Spanx on, Right, have a little thing, right? So she sets it there and all I want is like the speaker system I wanted her dead, you don't I've done shows in front of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people, she's one dead person, I don't- That's a good ratio. I only kill 0.00001% of my right, but I wanted and this, right before she dies, I just wanted to lean in and go, &quot;Because you're a horrible person, that's why this is happening to you.&quot; She's just a low watt human being. Some people are just low watt. They're not turned off, and you turn it as low as you can, enough where it hums, you hear humming, so the bulb's not off, it just brings everybody darkness that comes in contact with you. That's what she was, a humming, low light, watt human being, okay? Little extreme, okay, so then, I go to say something to her, but I had to look at her husband first because it's a new thing in right now, audiences, used at an audience and you just listened, if you didn't like what I was saying, you would just stare at me, like that. If you liked what I was but there wasn't a thing, right? You didn't go, &quot;Ew, you Like audiences now think that comedy's a choose your own adventure. That you have a say on what That's not how it works. That's not how this whole So I had to look at the husband 'cause I'ma tell this lady, so I look at the husband is he gonna come up, how And I looked at him, sized him up quick, he had a winter Marlboro Lights jacket. Proved me one thing, he smoked enough to get a free winter jacket. It's all I need to know about him. He's got about two seconds I just gotta move around a Right, I'll do one of He's So I'm not worried about that guy. So I go to his wife and I'm and she's wearing this that has Eeyore, right? Now listen, grown women whole nother conversation And she's wearing, she has and every time I went all I thought was, &quot;Why bother?&quot; &quot;Oh, Christopher Robin, I just wish, like, to hit her with a smackeral of honey. Piglet, what is it today?&quot; &quot;It's we kill the lady &quot;Oh, that's my favorite day.&quot; &quot;We will kill her, then I'll deal with the I don't do impressions, I've been trying, I've been working on my Winnie because here's what I've been, I got remarried and I married and there's some responsibilities Okay, when you're reading you gotta have character development. You gotta change the story, you just don't, can't read Like IKEA directions. Gotta have some feeling And when I met my granddaughter she's about 1 1/2, she and just went, &quot;Read.&quot; So I started reading a book I was getting caught up on it was bad. It was like the part in &quot;8 Mile&quot; when M&amp;M just couldn't figure throw the shit out, pull out Stuck thinking, right? So I started reading her the book and she just kinda looked at me and I realized I'd better bring it because back when I was you had two grandpas, that was it. And now kids, their parents and they're remarried, and then there's step-grandpas even though that guy's not so it's a whole thing. So I'm coming into this fifth seed- But it gets your A-game Here's how you know you're 'cause that's the most in your entire life is about 1 1/2, and then you start being too honest, you start getting trouble, you're like, I'm gonna dial back the Remember 1 1/2, you didn't like the food knock it off. Not, will I get in trouble for doing this, should I do this, what's you're like, done, I do not That's what little kids do, you're reading a book to a little kid, and that little kid doesn't like the book, especially now, they will and just toss it. First they take it and then they're like, nope, Now they have options, now &quot;Motha, bring me a new grandpapa. This one bores me.&quot; So we don't, poor little kids, I know you're probably Me and my wife, we wrote a This one is called &quot;My Grandma It rhymes, it's easy to read. We have like five of them on Amazon. Let me read you the first page. &quot;Little Jane is so adorable and kind, but right now, she has one See what I did, see the pause? That's how you change levels. You don't read a book like you're reading a board game All right everyone's got a blue piece, just move your two pieces over there. You lost a turn, now it's your turn, now you go four paces that way, do you have a zapper card? you're back to her. Nothing worse than literally, it's the worst, that's why Backgammon's the best game ever 'cause when you're done Something to think about. So, &quot;Oh Christopher Robin.&quot; So Eeyore lady, right? She's like this, I'm like I don't understand why you're doing this. And she looks and I could and she goes, her low watt breath, say something to me, and 'cause I've been in comedy if you heckle me, if I can almost guess what by what you say, how you whatever, I can guess the booze. The second I heard her tone, She's had Xanax and wine. There's no defense for Xanax and wine. Xanax and wine is too loosey goosey. Xanax and wine are like you see at used car dealerships. You can't argue with Xanax It gets thrown back at I didn't even say that. &quot;What you're trying to say is,&quot; all right, you can't deal with it. So I go, well why are you waving? She goes, a server, I'm like, well yeah, that's because there's You know how many 'cause nobody, literally, is working? The fact that there's any server, you should just be excited. I've seen restaurants &quot;Can you not be dicks to the two people we have left working?&quot; We have two people working, they're on a shipping container in China, we have no cups and we have no ketchup and I got my mom out of So if you could sit down, order your food and not be an asshole, you need to appreciate this, right? Like you want a side hustle? That's what I would do. If you want a side hustle, I would just walk into walk up to any table, and just go, &quot;Your server's taking a quick break, can I get you guys anything else?&quot; Okay? And then when they give you the order, I'm willing to bet you from the table to the bar or without anybody saying anything. I bet you the manager will look and go, &quot;Finally, somebody on table eight.&quot; Notice I didn't say table seven 'cause we don't talk about seven. Right, and then when you come back, you go, you know what, our We take Venmo. Here's my QR code for that. Just wanted to, just take, bing, and stop at the bar, get your shift drink, take off. So, I don't know why, I'd be afraid because trying to get rid of servers now. Like I went to like a hamburger place, I don't know what the name of it is, and I walk in and I'm so hungry and I see two people who work there, 'cause they have the sitting behind the machines, and one of them says, &quot;Hello you can order from any of our two kiosks.&quot; And I'm like, that's not convenient to me. You taking my order would I go, can I just tell you what I want? They go, &quot;No, we have these two kiosks I'm like, I gotta tell I was just at CVS, I was I don't got time to Seems like I'm getting It just seems like, no, is hamburger with ketchup only. That's all I order, no matter what. So I go, I just want a and I don't know how, it's gonna be hard. You could probably figure And she goes, &quot;Well, you gotta type it in or the cook's not gonna know.&quot; I'm like the cook's been since we got here. So he knows exactly, I want That means no cheese, I would have fuckin' said cheese. It's hamburger, ketchup Anything in your brain you is a no. And she goes, &quot;If you he's not gonna know. He gets a receipt in back I'm like, I've seen old where a person had a notepad and they walked over to and like, &quot;Can I take your order?&quot; And then they wrote down, and went like that, and and then- Handed it, and the guy spun it around, took it out, put it on there, should I put pickles or tomatoes? No 'cause it says ketchup only. Why do people, like, I don't know if it's us just in general, or if service is, and I'll but- I have to tell you this story, so it's gonna be half a So I had to go get an MRI recently, right? So I had to go an MRI, I know and everybody in my family nobody told me what an MRI was, okay? So I, the entire time, go get this MRI, I'm pretty tired, probably gonna, I'm gonna while I'm getting the listen, in my brain, I thought, because I saw some stock it was like a blue scanning and everybody's smiling. That's what I thought an MRI was. Nobody in my family I'm in a corner, like closet, okay? And I see the lights just turning off. You see the lights go Like place is closing, and I've been back there I hear a guy go, &quot;I'm an exterminator, I heard there's bees in Then I hear somebody go, it's locked, everybody's gone.&quot; So that's when I step out I've been here for three hours. Right, and then the woman in charge, we'll just call her Natasha, I just see her go, &quot;Fuck.&quot; Right? the minion henchman guy, Boris, pulls me into this room, and Pull out a drawer, and he Doesn't tell me anything, and he hands me, he's got these earplugs, And I go, do other people use them, and I just take 'em from and then he closes the drawer, but luckily I have cat-like because my arms were Even if you're working a local carnival, the guy goes, &quot;All right riders, at least keep your arms inside We'll see you back here in So I close, and I'm in there, all of a sudden, So now I think the and my little safety ball I'm supposed to squeeze has fallen, I don't even know where that is. I'm reaching up, I'm feeling I can't find the thing. Then the whole thing stops, right? And I'm like right? And then the drawer opens and she looks at him and goes, &quot;It will not work if it And she chunked it, she's And then he goes, clunk, And then they just close me So I'm like, okay, this is if you're dead and somebody Like I just lived through that experience. Then they close me, then then the door opens again and she comes and she grabs my wrist she goes, &quot;Oh, do you know I go, no, she goes, &quot;He wants contrast.&quot; And I'm like, I don't know what that is. To me, that sounds like there's a knob on your TV you've been looking at, you just kinda jack that she goes, &quot;You want con-&quot; donk, and she sticks this thing why do I taste salt? What's happening to me? And then they put me back in and And at this point, I think I'm gonna like, gonna get out and I'm &quot;John if you're seeing this There's a secret bag find it and get to Mars.&quot; And then she gets done and she goes, &quot;You will go down that hall and go.&quot; So then I'm thinking, you know what, if I went and got a tan, the 16 year old at the tanning booth would have explained to me more what was about to happen to me than the lady at the MRI thing, right? So I ask Eeyore, I'm like And she goes, &quot;These drinks are watery.&quot; And I'm like, no they're not, they're made how they're supposed to be. She's like, &quot;No, it tastes like water.&quot; Listen people, here's if you go out and you have a drink and you think your drink's watery, it's because you were Your calibration is so messed up, it'll never be right again, Vodka soda is like maybe and then whatever the soda. I don't know about you guys, One, glug, two, and I didn't even it was plastic with handles, glug. Not even in nice glasses, 32 ounce, glug, glug, glug. I had red wine for the Not a big wine drinker. I think lukewarm stuff is weird, but I bought wine and I bought boxed wine. Yeah, I didn't know so I bought boxed wine 'cause I figure it's You can do more with boxes And I also figure, well, I thought the world was ending, and if the world's ending, and if I have red wine, we But I don't know where you so if you came to my church, I'd probably go with Probably gonna be the, do Yes. Is that cheesier? than last week, it's zestier. I think those are the baked ones. Right? So, I got the wine and I didn't I had so many questions about, so first, I went and I hit the button and it just reminded me I didn't even enjoy it. My first thought when I was like this is, I'm not working past five, I Right, like So then, there's a couple there needs to be a gauge to let you know how much you drank. There should be an E or an F so you don't see the box of wine, you get all excited and you go That's a horrible feeling and it starts to drip because I don't, a rage took over me right through the box, yanked out the bladder, like bagpipes, and just And I'm rolling it, I took out a knife, I slit it open, I licked it, then I ate the plastic It was COVID, I was on a farm, So then, if you've never had Like the first time, like right, and the wine started hitting me, it started going through my veins. It kinda felt like, this is when Peter Parker's becoming Spider Man. I can feel it going through my veins and I'm starting to and then I drank a half a box. I just had a wonderful self-care night. Got that rolly thing and Sat there like that. Put these stickers underneath my eyes, put these Nike symbols just rolled out my face, Made a bunch of signs that said, &quot;Thankful, Grateful, Blessed.&quot; My number one seller is just &quot;Home.&quot; Watched all of &quot;Outlander,&quot; oh, ah, to be loved through time, right? I liked box wine, like I kinda like, every time I drink it and take communion, I think I wanna start a religion Like I'm an ordained minister, so I'm technically allowed to, but here's what I would do, though. I would start a religion and I would kinda gear it younger than me, like I would definitely 'cause I could get away with a lot more. Like so if it's everybody I wouldn't actually read from the Bible, I would just quote 80s songs. And I don't think that age group would even know the difference. And you may ask yourself, Where is my beautiful wife? You might have some friends that say I wanna have fun tonight, Tonight. Will you relax, you don't do it, even if you wanna go through it. 'Cause you can never be too Now you come back next Sunday, I got a little diddy about Jack and Diane I would like to share with you. You guys, thank you so Thanks so much, I appreciate Thank you very, very much, thank you.