(Young Dongbo Xueying) Run! Go! Run! Go! - Ying! - Ying! (Tong San) (Zong Ling) Uncle Zong, Uncle Tong San, I'm here. You scared us to death. - Come down now. How are you? Are you alright? Uncle Tong San, Uncle Zong, you almost hurt that deer just now. Deer? It's all your fault, Tong San. How was I supposed to know? Ying, now that the deer is saved by you, we don't have deer meat to eat today. Well, it's the Lucky Reunion Festival. Let's go home and have dinner together. Let's go. Great, I'll have sweet buns to eat. - Let's go have dinner. Lie. Yu, don't be afraid. I'm here. I'll go check on the children. (Thundering Gust) Who's there? (Ferocious Spearstrike) Xueying. Mother, what's up? I have something for you. Mother, isn't this your storage treasure? Why? From today on, it belongs to you. Give me your hand. Mother, why are you suddenly giving it to me? Because then you can keep all your treasures inside it. You must keep it well. When you meet someone in the future, it may unleash incredible power. Mother, what's that sound? Mother. - Mother. There, there, Qingshi. Come to me. - Mother. Good boys. I'm here. Don't be afraid. Wait here for me. I'll be right back. Mother! I want Mother! Qingshi. Mother. Where is Moyang Yu? (Moyang Chen) Moyang Chen. (Tong San,) (take away Xueying (I entrust them to you.) Well... After all these years, I've finally found you. Moyang Chen, what do you want to do? Back then, you broke and eloped with someone, bringing huge shame on our family. Bringing you back I don't think it's the family's request. It's you who have ulterior motives. You have to come with me today. Don't blindly pursue martial arts prowess and lose your mind. I really hate this kind of didactic tone. Are you going to use your Ancient Bloodline to deal with me? I heard that great battle almost exhausted the strength of your Ancient Bloodline. Otherwise, you wouldn't have hidden here. Let's see who can help you today. As long as I have a breath left, no one can take her away. Lie, no need to talk to him. Ying, where are you going? - Let go of me. It's dangerous outside. Stop it. Little Stone Ying. Mother. Xueying. (Thundering Strike) Xueying. Xueying. Xueying. Xueying. Mother. Xueying. Did I kill that bad guy? Xueying, are you alright? Let me take a look. My silly child. Mother, did I kill that bad guy? You almost scared me to death. This child is your son, right? The little guy has the Ancient Bloodline too, right? Father. Xueying, take good care of your mother. Lie. Lie, let go, Lie. Lie. Lie, let go! Father. Father. Lord. Come with me. No one can take my mother away. If you don't, the people will be buried with you. Let's start with your son. (Moyang Chen is already (Destroying the territory would be Don't hurt him. I'll go with you. Xueying, promise me you'll take care of yourself and your younger brother when your father and I are not around. Did you hear me? Tell me. Yes, I did. Mother, Mother. Mother, Mother. Mother, Mother. Mother! (Xueying Territory) (Moyang Chen killed my father) (and took my mother away.) (Dragon Mountain Mansion) (Only those who possess (can ask Dragon Mountain Mansion (I'm afraid) (you don't even have Dou Qi now, right?) (You'd better go back.) (Dragon Mountain Mansion) (Ten years later) (Dongbo Xueying) (Blessings and Auspices) (Dark Ice Spear Technique: Flying Snow) Ying, eat first. Stop practicing and take a break. (Strong.) (I need to become stronger.) Good spear technique, Ying. Nice. Good spear technique, Ying. It's been ten years, but I haven't even cultivated Dou Qi. Moyang Chen must be stronger than he was ten years ago. But I am not even a Mortal Knight. I'm really useless. Ying, you practice thousands of times a day. You've managed to harness immense force from the elementary technique, It's no mean feat. Don't push yourself too hard. Given time, you'll definitely surpass Moyang Chen. Yeah, Ying. I just hope that day comes sooner. Then I will rescue my mother. Let's eat. Alright, let's eat. Smells good. Eat more. Ying. Spit it out. Ying, eat slowly. I haven't cultivated Dou Qi yet. How do I increase How do I keep practicing Just don't stuff yourself too much. It's okay. I'll practice two thousand more times, Our lady has been missing for so many years. With only a few unconfirmed leads, Ying wouldn't let any of them slip by. Logically, the Dragon Mountain Mansion is the only one But they're unwilling to help. We can only negotiate once we have the Black Iron Order. Snobbish. That's the way this world is. Whoever is powerful has the say and can even set the rules. Uncle Tong San, Uncle Zong Ling, come and practice with me. Still practicing? You go. He's asking for you. You go. He's asking for you. Go, go. Look at him. (Weapon Shop) Hello? Customers are here! What would you two like to buy? Good taste, Sir. This is a third-level alchemy weapon. It can even handle battles of Legend Levels. Only 30,000 gold coins. 30,000 gold coins? Sir, we're serious about buying. Could you give us a fair price? Well... 20,000, and it can't go lower. 20,000 is still not low, Sir. Sir, how much is this spear? Well, it's just scrap metal, and I was thinking of throwing it away. If you want it, just give me Ying. Actually, we don't lack money. By saving a little each day, Tong San and I should be able to afford a spear. Let's pick a better one. No, I want this one. It's a good one. (I'll name you Flying Snow Spear.) Only you would like this lousy spear. Ying, look what junk you've got. See, Tong San doesn't like it either. Ying, how about tomorrow I go with you to buy another one? No, I want this one. Well... (Dongbo Qingshi) I... Brother. Brother, look at this. Not bad, but keep working hard. Brother, you just bought this? Well, brother. Have you heard about the demon thing? Yeah. The demons' origin is unknown. Don't go out at night. Even a matter related to demons can make you worry so much for me. How can I save our mother then? You don't need to worry about that. Focus on your training. You have outstanding spiritual power. You may be a promising mage. Brother, I will definitely train hard and defeat Moyang Chen with you in the future. (Qingshi lost parents (He has suffered enough.) (Saving our mother is difficult.) (I'll handle) (the risks myself.) Demons are attacking our territory! (Hui An) Stay here. Ying, be careful. Why do you stop me? Let him have a try. Shi, are you okay? I'm fine. Ying. Ying, it really is a good spear. Brother, you're amazing. I knew this would be a good spear. Uncle Zong, Uncle Tong San, you go back first and wait for me. Wait for me. You can't go. Your skills are not strong enough. These demons have They only know brute force. He won't get hurt. (This is the True Meaning of Space) (that only Transcendent Knights (Chi Qiubai) Are you okay? May I ask your name, Sir? I am Chi Qiubai. Knight Changfeng. You are Knight Changfeng. You have no Dou Qi at all. Why would you take the risk? Demons are invading our territory. I must investigate. I have already passed on some Dou Qi to you. Perhaps it can stimulate your own Dou Qi. If you insist be careful. (True Meaning of Space Split) Knight Changfeng. (Stimulating Dou Qi.) (Blessings and Auspices) Not bad. You just went for a day, and you have greatly improved Not bad. I have to continue training to save my mother as soon as possible. Brother, I'm back. (Notice) The demons are hiding Whoever can find out the truth will be rewarded Really? Absolutely. That's great. With the Black Iron Order, I can find out where my mother is. But the roads there are treacherous. It's basically a one-way trip. I'm not afraid. Brother, I don't want you to go. I have already lost my parents. I can't afford to lose you. I don't agree. Is it worth taking such a risk for a Black Iron Order? Not just for the Black Iron Order. If we don't figure out this matter, and the demons come again, we'll all be in danger. Then I'll go with you. Shi, I'll accompany You and Tong guard the Xueying Territory and wait for me to come back. Zong Ling. Alright, it's settled then. Well... Demons! Uncle Zong, let's leave. These demons seem like ordinary people with no attack power. That flute player must be the leader, probably an insider. Let's cut off the head of the snake. Capture him and ask. Ying, be careful. Who gave you the guts to come to my territory? You are Ge Bin? Ge Bin? Well? You must have heard of my name, right? The Bent Blade Union is notorious. It seems this time the demons are related to you guys. Still stubborn when facing death. Today I will send you... To your death. To your death! To your death! B-B-Boss. With just a little Dou Qi, how dare you come here! That's right. (Cul-de-sac Attack) This is the Meteor Level Dou Qi. Die! (Yu Jingqiu) (She must be at least) (at the Meteor Level.) (Freezing Frost) (It seems she is a mage) (using spiritual power) (like my mother.) Chase them! Yes. (King of Snake Rattling) You go first. (Frost Barrier) Where are they? Where are they? Split and search. Where are they? Wait, not even a footprint here. What are you looking at? Go search! Thank you for saving me. My name is Dongbo Xueying. May I ask your name? We just met by chance. No need to ask for my name. Why did you come I received an order to investigate the demons. Follow me. Wait a moment. (He's quite meticulous.) Boss, the footprints are gone. Not right. We found no trace of them. They can't have gone far. Split into three groups and chase them. - Yes. I have to go back. Uncle Zong Ling tried to save me and his life is hanging in the balance. Don't worry for now. Let's find another exit first. It's getting late. The Bent Blade Union You're still injured. Going out recklessly can lead to death, right? I am worried about Uncle Zong Ling. He risked his life to save you, and yet you are not cherishing your own life. If your uncle is fine, then it's fine. If he's in trouble, even if you try to save him, you might not make it in time. The one isn't very skilled. And demonic techniques were not adopted. This is the ice spell from the Water Daoist Temple. Could it be Jingqiu? Knight Changfeng. Who are you? I am the chamberlain Knight Changfeng, on your way here, did you see my lord Dongbo Xueying? No. I only saw you on the way. I didn't see anyone else. Ying encountered Ge Bin. You guys met the Bent Blade Union? Ge Bin was assisted by a gray-robed mage. The mage's skills are bizarre. It's hard to deal with. If you want me to die, (Blood God Killing) (I am a weresnake.) (They probably don't know) (that my internal organs are different That's why I survived. But Ying's chance to live is slim. I am going to save Ying. Your injuries are severe. Recover first. I promised the former lord and Lady to look after Xueying. I must go save him. As you are a man of loyalty, not like a wicked person, I'll give you some advice. Know your limits. In case you will lose your life while pursuing the Black Iron Order. How do you know As Dragon Mountain Mansion there are quite a few people coming for fame and fortune. I do want the Black Iron Order, but it has nothing to do The Demon Clan is killing civilians, but I won't stand by and watch. What a righteous speech. But as you don't even have Dou Qi, are you trying to play the hero? Whether I get the Black Iron Order or investigate the demons, that's my own business. This is the Meteor-level Dou Qi. Prepare to die. (This is the power (His moves aren't sophisticated) (and his foundation isn't solid.) (He's just relying on his Dou Qi.) (If I had Dou Qi too...) (I have the Dou Qi) (given by Knight Changfeng.) (However,) (it's just circulating inside my body.) (I can't use it at all.) You are useless! Can't even catch a person. I've wasted my time raising you all. Your Lordship. Your Lordship, rest assured. Give me three more days. In three days, I will definitely find them out and not cause any trouble Boss, boss. Get lost! Three days? It would be easier to kill you now and find them myself. Please spare our lives, Your Lordship! Please calm down, Your Lordship! We've almost turned this mountain over. Right. Isn't that girl a mage? Maybe she used some sort of spell. Your Lordship. Follow this smoke. For what you can't see, it can see it all. Chase, hurry up! A bunch of trash. (He doesn't have Dou Qi,) (but he can make it to such an extent) (relying solely on physical strength) (and his body has recovered) (so soon.) Dongbo Xueying, what do you want to do? I'll treat you to dinner. Are you a chef? You use such a good treasure for storing seasoning. Because of this, I can finish my meal quickly, which gives me more time for practice. Your moves and If you had Dou Qi, Ge Bin might not Done. Now that there's fish to eat, Just because I realized you aren't totally useless after I saw you What kind of fish is this? Snowfish. Cod? The fish grilled by me must be snowfish for sure. Boss, it went in. Take care. Great. You two are actually hiding here and playing house. Making it so hard for me to find you. Ge Bin, today, I'll show you the power of Water Daoist Temple. Don't put up that pretentious, righteous facade. The person who can defeat me hasn't been born yet. Get them! Let's go. Chase them! Can you swim? Let's go. Didn't you say you can't swim? But I know the Waterproof Spell. Waterproof Spell? Boss, do we chase them or not? How can we chase them? Look at this place. This is where the demons come from. Those two people really know how to pick a spot. I've been on this mountain for so long, but it's the first time I know there's such a shortcut. What a pity. It's a shortcut to death. Even if you two are deities, there's no escape. Let's go! Let's go. Are you alright? I'm fine. Let's go. These demons are not normal. It seems like they can't see us. Hold your breath. There are a large number of demons. It's not a situation you and I can handle alone. You must report to I'll go back to the Water Daoist Temple. As it's so dangerous now, how do you get out of here? If you have any concerns, you don't have to come with me. No, it's not that. Since the demons can come out from under the water, there must be a mystery of this pool. This place is definitely not simple. Let's search carefully. You know the Waterproof Spell, right? Let's take a look. Alright. There's a cave over there. How can this be? Let's go in and see. A large group of demons also left here just now. Let's take a look. Darn it. Boss, I've sent some people to search. Maybe they'll find it soon. You'd better find out the Realm Stone now. Otherwise, we will all die. Or even worse than death. Well... Boss, what about running away? Running away? Where to? They are from the Demon God Association. Demon God Association? What's wrong with you? Your hand. I've been infected Let's get out of here first. Where are you running to? It's you guys again. The Ocean Realm Stone must have been taken by you. Hand over the Ocean Realm Stone now! That girl has already been poisoned. Soon she will be just like them. Hand over the Ocean Realm Stone and I can spare your life. Wait for me here. Over here. You've been infected The more you use spells, Don't run if you dare. This is just the beginning. Can't you handle it? You are bound to lose. Your Lordship. Knight Changfeng. Let's go. Uncle Master. Jingqiu. Ying, be careful. Jingqiu. I've been infected Let's go. Uncle Zong, hurry up. Knight Changfeng, There's a big flood coming over there. Jingqiu, how come you're here? Uncle Master, I followed Senior Xiuran and others to retrieve the Ocean Realm Stone. We split up in Yishui City. This is the Ocean Realm Stone I found in the pool. It has been eroded and I temporarily suppressed it. We'll deal with it when we This is the Ocean Realm Stone that Ge Bin has been talking about. You were the young man in Yishui City that day. Knight Changfeng. Thank you for giving me Dou Qi and saving my life again. Ying, I also owe my life to Knight Changfeng. We also found this in the cave. This is mine. Thank you. The Ocean Realm Stone is the treasure of It was lost some time ago. I can't believe to create demons. After being subjected to the demonic nature is intense. People who get close Just like my junior Yu. But, I don't feel anything wrong. Can I take a look? No demonic energy. How could it...? Could it be that I was too far from it? Uncle Master, a large number of demons emerged from under the pool last night. Thousands of them. Someone is transferring these demons. Let's check it out. You know my Uncle Master? Knight Changfeng saved my life in Yishui City. I am Yu Jingqiu Yu Jingqiu, Miss Yu, from the Water Daoist Temple. I finally know your name. Someone cast a formation spell here to transfer that batch of demons. I also saw traces of the formation spell under the pool earlier. Someone used the power of the Ocean Realm Stone to cast the formation spell, and turned that pool of water to make whoever is tainted with it Demons were created in this way. Those bad guys. It is not clear Ge Bin also mentioned We don't know their purpose. But I'm afraid may not be peaceful anymore. Miss Yu, Knight Changfeng, I would like to borrow the Ocean Realm Stone. The underwater cave has collapsed. Although we have known I'm afraid that the people in Dragon Mountain Mansion So I want to bring the evidence back. The Ocean Realm Stone Only the Faction Leader has the right to dispose of it. How come you will give it to Dragon Mountain Mansion? (If we hand over the Ocean Realm Stone) (to Dragon Mountain Mansion,) (would everyone blame (for the demons?) If possible, please come with me to the Water Daoist Temple. Report the situation to the Faction Leader. He is reasonable. As you just want the Black Iron Order, he will definitely I'm sorry. I can't wait any longer for this matter. Please lend me the Ocean Realm Stone. This is against the rules I'm sorry. Ying. I'm afraid you're the first one who dares to snatch something from Knight Changfeng. I had my reasons too. Is the Black Iron Order really that important to you? Yes. Jingqiu, emergencies before rules. I will find a way to report to Master Sikong. I'll go with you to Dragon Mountain Mansion. Thank you, Knight Changfeng. (I can finally find out) (where my mother is.) (Mother, wait for me.) I will save you and bring you home. Knight Changfeng. Miss Yu. What brought you two to my Dragon Mountain Mansion suddenly? Lord Si An and Master You Tu, we came here to report the matter of demons from the task list. Knight Changfeng, you are too modest. I don't dare Could it be that the fact of demons has come out? Is this the Ocean Realm Stone the Water Daoist Temple lost? The Bent Blade Union and used the demonized Ocean Realm Stone to create demons Since the fact has come out, please honor your promise, Lord. I remember you. Ten years ago. (Dragon Mountain Mansion) and took my mother away. Please help me kill him. Help you? What will you give me in return? In return? Of course, a deal is the condition of What do you want? To reach the Meteor Level, you may have a chance Only strength is the most powerful weapon. You should go back. It's me, Dongbo Xueying. Thank you for rejecting me ten years ago. (Dragon Mountain) This is the Black Iron Order that only practitioners are qualified to obtain. It is not only a symbol of strength, but also a proof of contracting with my Dragon Mountain Mansion. Since you are qualified to ask Dragon Mountain Mansion you must accept the constraints Once summoned, all holders of the Black Iron Order shall assemble and follow orders. Lord, now that I have the Black Iron Order, please accept my request and find out my mom Moyang Yu. Not now. Why not? Our task also requires But now, we know nothing Everything is just speculation. So your task is only half complete. Simply put, you still need to catch Ge Bin. Fine. I hope you will fulfill your promise when I take Ge Bin back. If you make it, I will keep my promise. Ying, the people in Dragon Mountain Mansion are too flattering. Their attitude towards Knight Changfeng is far different from that towards us. It's only human nature. On the contrary, I should thank him for rejecting me back then. Otherwise, I will not become powerful. Why don't you come with me back to the Council? They will definitely find a way to catch Ge Bin. They won't let the Demon Clan carry out the plan. Their strength must be stronger than yours alone. Catching Ge Bin is urgent. If we gather we might find clues faster. Okay. Uncle Zong, you go back first. I'll go with Knight Changfeng. Ying. It's different outside than at home. Don't be too straightforward. I think although they belong to Transcendent forces, they are not overbearing. As the people we may not be able to reach their level. But when we're outside, it's always better to have more friends than enemies. Don't worry, Uncle Zong. I know. Please take care of Xueying. So it seems the Bent Blade Union The remnants of the Demon Clan are making a comeback. I didn't expect the Ocean Realm Stone to be used by the Demon Clan to do such a thing. Ge Bin is also a Meteor-level person. He doesn't even have Dou Qi. Did he really defeat Ge Bin? I saw it with my own eyes. Strange. Your bones are unique. But all three hundred acupoints have been sealed. No wonder you have no Dou Qi even now. You are either a once-in-a-century talent or a useless person. This Master He is the world's number one player and also the world's number one Since you are special, he wasn't out of malice when taking a few more glances at you. We should not be in disarray in the face of formidable enemies. Master Sikong is right. I can't believe the Demon God has created so many demons If it weren't for we might still be in the dark. This is indeed our negligence of transcendent faction. The capture of Ge Bin should not rely on this young man alone. It is our responsibility. My disciple Cui Yong is steady and capable and has always been efficient. He can go with you. But now that he's away, you can stay in Thank you, Master Sikong. But I dare not wait any longer. There are also helpers I will go and capture Ge Bin on my own. I would like to go too. Fine. It's time for some training. As the remnants of all factions must If the Demon Clan defending the Dragon Mountain Empire is the responsibility of all of us. We need to cultivate more outstanding disciples, in order to constantly provide a force to defend Qiubai. Yes. Bring up the enrollment of as soon as possible. Yes. Jingqiu, you have always been disciplined and not talkative. What happened in the palace just now was quite unexpected. I was just stating the facts. You've grown up by the side of the Faction Leader. You do resemble him. Thanks to the Faction Leader, he hinted at me several times This time, if you are admitted to you should start calling me master. I will live up to expectations of the Faction Leader and you. Xueying, Changfeng Academy is always open to you. Thank you, Knight Changfeng. But in my mind now, there's only one thing, I haven't considered other matters yet. Alright then. Do you two have any clues on how to catch Ge Bin? Since Ge Bin is working for to create demons, he will definitely come back to find the Ocean Realm Stone. As long as we spread the information that the Ocean Realm Stone was taken away by Dongbo Xueying, you don't need to look for him, he will naturally come to find you. Okay. Then I will post a notice in Yishui City, telling everyone that I took the Ocean Realm Stone away. The drama must be fully played. I'll ask Dragon Mountain Mansion You can also brag about it, showing off your youth and talent. After Ge Bin sees it, he will definitely rush to you immediately. Good. This time, let's wait for the sitting duck. (Xueying Territory) It's Lord. Lord is back. Lord is back. Lord is back. Our Lord is back. Great, Lord is back. Lord is back. Lord is back. Brother. It's Brother. Brother is back. Uncle Zong Ling. Uncle Tong San. Brother is back. Come on. Lord is back. Lord, Lord. Great, Lord. We are here. Lord is back. Lord, Lord. Lord is back. Lord, Lord. Brother, you're finally back. I missed you so much. Wait a moment. I've prepared some good stuff for you. The Black Iron Order. Uncle Zong. Brother finally has a Black Iron Order. Let me introduce. Jingqiu. This is my younger brother, These are my two masters who taught me, Uncle Tong San and Uncle Zong Ling. This one is a disciple Yu Jingqiu. She came to help me to catch Ge Bin. Hello, Jingqiu. I've heard about it. You're the savior of our Xueying. You are also the savior of our Xueying Territory. Right, you are also my savior. Saviour, please come in. Let's go. Please. Let's go, let's go.