The title doesn't bode well. We want to return to Germany as quickly as possible. It's the first time we've been searched. There are a lot of things that don't fit well. Which causes us to completely abandon our plans. And I hope the engine holds up. The first medical results are in. Lots of things we didn't want. One of those magical places. We are excited to see what that will be like. Everything is uncertain. The future and the question of how we move forward? I'm worried we'll be left behind. Now would be the right time to start praying. Our visa for Turkey expired two months ago. The police didn't let us go any further. We won't see the EUR260 again in our lives. People report standing at the border for eight hours. Turkey is not currently covering itself with glory. And you know what the coolest thing is? Is that brilliant? Who would have thought that you could actually swim in this river? Now lots of little fish nibbling off the little scales . Correct. Everything full. She thinks there are beauty salons where you pay a lot of money for them. It's free here. And the bigger the fish, the more it snaps. Down there to bigger ones. Correct? Yes. It's full of fish. Really crowded here. Welcome to the new video. The title doesn't bode well. And that simply has to do with the fact that something has happened in Germany. Which causes us to completely abandon our plans. I don't know yet how much I want to talk about it in detail. It's also very private. Let's see. Maybe more on that later. Um, we are definitely still in a beautiful place here that allows us to relax and... Somehow it's such a nice ending to the whole thing. From from Greece, from. The trip. About the journey, about the three years we have been traveling now. Yes, this is one of those magical places on our trip that we will make a note of. And maybe we'll return again. We're just having our last breakfast with this super, super gorgeous view of the bridge. Have you already seen the drone footage that Nicolas was talking about? That it's just such a fairytale-like, dreamlike, quiet place too. We are very, very few people and you can go swimming here in the morning, go swimming in the evening and there is almost no one there. The water is really nice and cold and at 35 degrees in Greece it's such a nice way to cool off. We will definitely remember this place. I believe we will return here again one day. That's really true. I can see that we can. That's all I can say again and again, it's so beautiful, it's so beautiful here. A nice ending, also an insider tip for a hot summer. Yes, you always think that you always have to go to the sea like that. But we tried that in Greece and we really got into it. The sea didn't cool us down at all. And now here in a really cold river and when it's 35 degrees outside, there's actually nothing better. Well, I think for the next one, because we've kind of written it behind our ears. You can also cool off really well in the mountains, in the mountains, by rivers and it's actually a much better option. That's true and there's nothing going on. So here's the last two days, I think maybe we got five cars or something and of course the Greeks know that too, but you really have everything to yourself here , you just have everything to yourself, nature, the river, just is really beautiful and even at sunset. The sun was already gone and we went swimming again and it was a dream. Goodbye. Nice place. That was good again. Yes. That was our last night in Greece. Yes, it can happen that quickly. It feels like we have only just entered Greece again. And now we're leaving again today. The Albanian border is waiting for us. We are about 50 kilometers from the border. And in the next few days there will be a border marathon for us because we will. Or we want to return to Germany as quickly as possible. It's starting. I think we'll be at the border in half an hour and hopefully everything will work like it did last year and hopefully the truck will hold up and not hold any weight. Really? Exactly. It is now 2000 and 400 kilometers to Germany. Without internet and ours. Without our parquets, we actually found a really, really nice place to spend the night. And we really need to cool off on the beach. Because it's 35 degrees today. We drove all day today. We are now about halfway across Albania. So we've already covered half of the country. Maybe we'll get to Montenegro tomorrow. Let's see. Yes, um. Conclusion At the border you can say in summer, it takes a little longer. It took about an hour, when we arrived in December and January, it worked like that, but it was very uncomplicated and I think Nikolas, as a hard-working driver, has now earned a salary Mojito in the cold water. Why does it continue? We met him yesterday evening. They are well known. Their three, three children, their three daughters also came here and invited them to stand on the beach. There is a bit of deep sand here, and we didn't know how far the water reached. But things get very far, so we now have to get our vehicle to safety. And if they can't get through the deep sand, we'll of course see them beyond that. Let's see how we are. I wanted. I'll try to ride a track like this a little bit, so ride the water a little bit, the sand if I can. That's how it comes through. Yes. Almost done. But a little more speed might make it through. But that's difficult. So, the small tires and the weight. This will happen quite quickly. Well, not out now. So we used being for ourselves the first time and then two more times for others. And now for the fourth time, again for others. That's good itself and nice and long. We persuaded them both to go to the beach. Of course you have to pull them out. We said that too, let it be very clear. Of course it depends. Um, yes. The two of them said that they were like that. A nice ending for Albania. They then drive on straight away, and are of course traveling faster than us. Yes, always. Greetings to you for getting to know each other. Today it's good again and yes, maybe I'll be able to do it again. We're going to Germany now too. Well, um, since the repair in Turkey we've had a problem with the cooler and it's broken twice and the last time since we left Turkey. Yes, it somehow can't withstand the pressure. If it builds up the pressure and it has somehow built up in one place since then whenever we are under load, i.e. when we do that when we drive up mountains, there is no pressure on the system and we lose water and that we noticed the day before yesterday. So I looked and whatever was in the rocker pressure tank, we lost a lot of water and it got hot again. Good, filled up with water, continued driving and it didn't get hot anymore. I found out that the radiator only leaks when it pressurizes the system. So now I have the one at the pressure vessel. I have now opened the screw cap, which is the pressure relief valve so to speak, slightly so that the system cannot build up pressure. This means that we now have enough cooling capacity when we are on the track. But as soon as we drive into the mountains, the heat builds up relatively quickly. And somehow I don't have faith that we'll be able to solve this quickly in time. And we will try to go to Germany like that. After the rescue operation. The camp. What was that? Another really nice ride through Albania yesterday. We have now arrived in Montenegro. And so Albania. In summer. We hadn't had that before. Last time we drove through Albania, it was really easy going down towards Greece, there was nothing going on there. I don't know, when did we go? Then you can see now that it was actually quite okay, but this time it was so full. The streets were so incredibly full. You can't imagine that. So, people through Albania drive in the west, so to speak, from Albania towards the south, so they try to pass Tirana. I think the one through the mountains is nicer anyway, because that part of Albania is just ugly. But when we drove into Albania, you saw the pictures. So from below, from the south, it's really beautiful. And when we arrived in the north we were at the beautiful border with Montenegro, also really beautiful and I just believe that. Then the eastern part, where it goes into the mountains, will be just as beautiful. Yes, yesterday we covered 250 kilometers despite the traffic jam. So, I think we probably spent two hours in traffic. At least. So the border was very, very jagged again. That was accurate, it went really well and was totally uncomplicated. So there we have the, we Germans have a stone in the board with the Albanians, with the Montenegrins, that's it, so the Albanians always feel like it took a quarter of an hour to check again and for us we just need the one Not even our passports, just our ID cards , handed over our vehicle registration, drove on for five minutes and what was also cool, we somehow got there. We drive without tolls. So avoid tolls And then we somehow got on the normal road. Well, we thought, okay, whatever, it went a little better. And then we came to the toll station. The cashier looks at us like, Yes, the computer barrier went up, keep driving like that, don't pay anything. Very nice in Albania. In Albania it was right on the streets. So the most violent traces. Not so easy with a truck. So if you're using the wide tires, you have to be very careful. Yesterday's journey was very tiring. Have I forgotten anything else? It continues exactly today. We leave Montenegro again. So we were here for one night and then we continued towards Bosnia. Let's see what it's called. We've never been there before and we're currently driving without internet. Well, we haven't been in the country that long and then it's no longer worth buying a SIM card. That's why we're not online now. We hadn't responded so quickly to the last video he saw . This is because we don't have internet. And yes, we navigate offline. We previously downloaded the offline maps using Google Maps and it works wonderfully, I have to be honest. No problems with the parking space closed. Also on the search for a parking space. Of course, we don't have any apps that we can use now, but we drove into the mountains somewhere so that it would be cooler and then you can now just turn off to the right. There's supposed to be a monastery somewhere, there's supposed to be a bridge, we did that and now we're standing here, but a street like that, a gravel path like that continues on. Now to the truck. That wasn't actually a problem yesterday, somehow it didn't cause any problems now, i.e. the temperature. As long as we're on the road, it's not a problem anyway. It wasn't an issue the whole time it was 80 degrees. But now that we have the mountains here in Montenegro, it always went slightly uphill, ever further, ever further. Um, since we're so worried about where we're going to have real problems with the temperature, but that actually worked out quite well. So now, I don't know how far up we went, it was a few kilometers, so uphill it was probably ten kilometers at least uphill, if not more. And the temperature gradually went up a little bit further, then a little further up. So at the end it was 98 degrees and then we turned off here too. Yes, cooling water has not decreased now. So that seems to work quite well. So, now that I have the things, the lid, the pressure relief valve, the lid I know what to call, there on the pressure vessel, so that I don't have the hold so completely opened, but rather very slightly. So it wasn't fully tightened by half a turn and then there was enough pressure to be able to blow off so that the cooler somehow remained tight. So that's pretty weird. So the cooler stays real if there is not too much pressure on it, I would say now, because there was a little pressure on it yesterday, but as soon as there is real pressure on it, then something really seems to be there. Then he really loses. Well, let's see how things turn out. Yes, that part is what I mean. I didn't close it completely. What was coming towards us and then I opened it very slightly so that there was airspace coming over. We have now driven 2200 kilometers. Since the last oil change after the engine overhaul. In total we now have 5500 kilometers since engine, overhaul and. So I would say that consumption hasn't changed. So we have now added three liters of oil after 2200 kilometers . I don't even know if that's enough or not. Another half liter afterwards, so three and a half again, nothing has really changed. But it's more like 5,000 kilometers and we're supposed to drive 10,000 kilometers. True? I don't think we'll even get the full 10,000 kilometers to Germany. So yes, we have to travel around a bit in Germany, so that doesn't mean anything. We'll see. An okay. So we. Over twelve tons. We cannot use this limit. Not? But how many are over twelve tons? It wasn't there before. Yes, of course. Even now they were lying. I've also seen some nails there. Something else? So the bridge itself is now has as a steel frame had steel frame and hope. Naturally. Good morning From Bosnia. Yesterday we drove 191 kilometers. Through Montenegro. And another half or so 1/3 through Bosnia. Yesterday it was actually difficult to find a parking space. We then kindly have here I asked people at the restaurant and they said no problem. And then we also had a great goulash, three beers and a salad for EUR25. So this nice parking space here between all the fir trees cost us a delicious dinner, so to speak. We are now close to Sarajevo. Our plan is to get at least to Croatia, because there we have internet again. At the moment we are actually concentrating so much on driving and not yet on what awaits us in Germany. Tomorrow we will have internet again in Croatia and then we will be in touch with the family again. There will then be the first test results and then a picture will gradually form for us as well. Yes, we will of course tell you as soon as we have everything for ourselves. Understood what was going on. Of course we'll also tell you more about why we 're heading to Germany so quickly now. We will now set off and cover as many kilometers as possible today. And travel. At the end we brought ice cream. So, we filled up for EUR1.30. I think this is the last time we'll fill up so cheaply. For a longer time. And they demand it too. We are now in Croatia. And this is the first time we've actually been frisked. Throughout the entire journey. He took a look here and there. So he looked closely at a few things, but was afraid and looked everywhere because he didn't look at himself in the trunk. And yes, things like that can turn out differently. That all had to be sorted out. But in such cases I always think of being as cooperative as possible. I gave myself a flashlight so that he can take a closer look and yes, he has the feeling that you want to. So it works. Quiet. Before. I actually said the seller. In a few days. How many days are we traveling? 3 to 4 I don't even remember. The truck runs well. Um, well that was just. See well. So it's working too? Things are going well in Bergen. It's easy for him to build up pressure and if he has too much, then he can't quite control the path. We somehow have to provoke something like that. Maybe the pressure relief valve is broken. So it seems to be working. Simply. I gradually re-established the reaction force while we were going up there. So the driver, we go when when he collapses, it's almost really good now and the performance is now also right. Yes, we have something now. Yes, we think he's happy now that he wants to go home. Home because it was just too hot for me and. I have it for that. And we continue today. We are still in Croatia right now. We want to leave the country today. We have already bought a vignette online. For Hungary. You can easily buy them on your cell phone. So those who don't know that yet can watch our first Hungary video, where we explained it back then. Yes, in Hungary we want to use toll roads, so we want to make progress a little faster. We are now about halfway done on our way to Germany. Let's see how many kilometers we can manage today. We want to drive to a parking space in Hungary again. Yes indeed. Have been there three years ago. Let's see if we can get there. We spoke to Germany on the phone today. The first medical results are in and the result is that there is no result. So everything is still unclear. We'll continue like this for now. So we can't report on that anymore at the moment. Um, every day I check whether we still have enough water and of course enough oil. And yesterday I also smeared the other sources again, because we were already over it somehow. We drove 4000 kilometers and every two and a half, let's say according to the maintenance book. Yes, and I found that in the coolant this morning. So somehow it 's not any better right now. I don't know what it is. I guess oil. This means the head gasket is broken, which could also be a clue as to why our hose burst. Some of you already suspected in the last video that the head gasket is broken and that gases are then getting into the cooling circuit and this is causing too much pressure. Looks like it. In addition, I have now seen a lot of oil on the front of the engine that was under the engine or on the truck, where before there was no oil under there somewhere on and off. The repair in Turkey was a complete success. So all I can say is that it was a total failure. It didn't really make anything better. Somehow it wasn't good and we still have to keep going and I hope the engine holds up. We have now driven 350 kilometers. I think that was by far the longest route we drove. On this tour back to Germany. We started in northern Croatia and then completely through Hungary to the border of Slovakia, Slovakia. Here we are now at a parking spot where we were when we started the journey. From Germany then down towards Greece and that's where memories come back, the hopes with which you or we went on this trip back then and wondered what would await us, what adventures, what beautiful things we will see. That makes you think. We had both. Enough. Also a lot of things that we didn't want, but also things that were really, really nice. So this place here too, this. When we arrived here, three years ago, we were here in December, I think. It was foggy, it was cool, so it was okay, we also made a campfire. By the way, that was the first campfire we ever had. Then we were traveling in the truck. Yes, nice in a way too. The place was dirty anyway, just no, so that's okay. Could also be better. That's okay, anything can be thrown into this fireplace because aluminum shells don't burn and I don't think boards with nails in them are that great either. Place where there are people who might even walk around barefoot somewhere. Well, you don't necessarily step on a fire pit, but still. And why make three fireplaces when there is one? But I don't want to be a do-gooder either . And not now. I have no idea why I'm saying that. His age How watered down to be there? No, not actually. No, it's just things that other people notice. And we're not saints either, so that's not the case. But actually maybe it's just self-interest. When we arrive somewhere, we just want to have a nice place and that's why we always do something to ensure that we have a nice place. And then you can't help but get upset about other people's behavior. Okay , because now. Weak. Don't you have any more strength for the ladder? We're not in the Czech Republic, are we? We had to turn around very, very, very, very shortly before, just before the border. On a bridge for a maximum of seven tons. Yes. Can we get to the Czech Republic another way tomorrow ? What do you think about the non-toll roads in Slovakia? 50, a good 50%. A good 40% ahead? Well, it's always stupid. There are always the ones that leave fat tracks or start dancing in the truck, so here and there you have to be really careful. Here we stay now. Well, Austria looks nice if further. Great view, as they say. Exactly. A new day on our unwanted trip to Germany. We notice that we are now traveling in other countries. So Bosnia was already very, very full, in Croatia and also in Hungary. So the camper density has increased and we've already talked about it. So Greece, when it comes to camping and being free, we now appreciate that a little more. It's really a different house number here in the countries. And especially now during the summer holidays, you should think about it very carefully. If, of course, you also have the choice to travel. It's some other nonsense. Yeah, they're still kind of 33 degrees. That's the way it is. Uta So let's try to get some breathing room here. But it's also difficult. Um, yes, in retrospect we've had our windows for three years, so they definitely haven't stood the test of time. We'll come up with something else in the future, because we're just happy with such hot summer months. Today we are going to the Czech Republic to a place in a restaurant, um, where we ate over three years ago. And that stuck in our heads so much that we wanted to end our trip with a nice experience, so to speak. Yes, as I said, the countries are full. There are lots of campers, lots of holidaymakers. We have a parking space there from three years ago. We are excited to see what it will be like because the last time we were there was in November. So I think it will be a challenge to get a parking space today. We don't really know where the journey will take us yet. With the situation at home. We already have some ideas. Someone has already said that unfortunately the latest findings were not clear enough to now know where we all stand. Within the family. But it will definitely be something. Become longer term. So what that means for us and for our onward journey at some point we don't know yet. We're in a situation like this at the moment where we're actually thinking a lot about how we want to move forward and what things do we need to change? There are a lot of things that just don't fit well here. Of course, this also somehow includes the truck and the problems we have with it. But the decision is still not so easy that you can say that, then there is simply a different basis, because it always seems so quick and so easy, but it's not that easy. We think that all the time, over and over again. I'll then go into detail about what it means to get a new base and what kind of effort actually goes into it. And we just have to see that we just compare it. Exactly. Yes, a bit uncertain. The future for us now, which we will continue to pursue, is of course also a financial issue. We definitely want to continue YouTube. We don't want that. Don't we want to stop somehow or something? But one thing is also clear: when we're back in Germany, YouTube simply won't be enough as a financial source of income. We then have to think about completely different things and, well, we are currently thinking about how to do that. But now let's move on. That's all to follow. So that. All the sights are overcrowded. No chance. So, no matter how big. Can we still do it now? You can then restrict yourself somewhere. But again, while we have signs everywhere here now, they were there three years ago and not in the summer, there are signs everywhere. I see where we're going down the road. That means that we drove there for a long time and, I think, banned everything. And that's where we are for now. Parked? Yes. And how long do we have to walk to get to the rest? True. One more hour. Yes, but a stretch might be good for us. But we really haven't moved much lately. And I'm really happy. So, this pitch here, it's real. We had already found it last year. The walk and if it was here directly on the Vltava, hidden. Um, there's shade in the big firs. You have a direct view of the castle. A nice castle is, um. Yes. And I think we'll be able to sleep peacefully here for one night. Well, walk to the restaurant. Maybe we have to earn a little bit of the rich food. And it's also a nice walk along the Vltava. I was already afraid, I'll say that, that I would have to leave. Have we been looking? Ah no, I would, it's cool here. I am happy. It was definitely worth going here. So super tasty. We're just happy. The beer is really, really good . Stay with you. Let's see where we actually are here now. It's definitely worth the drive here because the castle is beautiful too. I still remember the tour of the castle. So there are only guided tours, which is okay, but the castle itself is nice to look at from the outside. There is a beautiful castle park where you can stroll. But coming here to this restaurant is actually a hotel restaurant. It was easy. Yes. So. Something isn't there either. At the water pump. So this. The. It was already leaking anyway. And I have no idea what happened there, whether it broke or? Then I started feeling like compression was coming out. But I don't know how we're going to continue now, or whether we're going to continue. Yes, we have to move on. Because there's nothing left to get. Just messed up, just messed up. We now have 150 kilometers left and we are now moving on. And I'm worried that we'll be left behind. I hope the real one still arrives intact, that doesn't really sound right! But I was worried that there was something in the film or something. So I have no idea what we're going to have right now, because that's what it sounds like. But I heard that he saw and you can clearly see the pressure being released. I don't know that I can just carry on at the moment, but I can definitely carry on again now, I think. The engine runs and there are no misfires. Keep watching the temperature, keep driving and hope that we do. Arrive at our destination. A driver on us saw a home birth . And for me that actually means broken again, because compression doesn't get into the air that well. Just put the water channel in and I don't have time for the water pump. There are still 500 kilometers left until my husband arrived. Directly on hot and just new and expansion. But we are now so wide awake that we no longer need breaks. What the last meters and last stage to Germany and then? Is this working now? If we expand the water, we don't have any other sound. We also have a loss of performance, or listen to the head or nine and then I'm in good spirits. We have other things to worry about and hopefully we won't cause any lasting damage. Still. Doesn't look so bad. Now. We made it. We ca n't even believe what a crazy ride it is. We'll collect our thoughts first and then we'll talk to you about it again tomorrow. It's just going. Yes. So, here. Done. And when we wanted to start this morning because we had decided that we would somehow drive the 260 kilometers to Bremen so that we could change the head gasket there with Carsten and Hans Peter, we set off. Less than five kilometers and luckily we saw it in time when the engine was overcooked . We didn't burn that. Well, burned. So it got really hot, went over 100 degrees really quickly and then the engine just had to stop. I couldn't let it continue. And when I got out, all the water from the excess pressure was already on it. That means we're not getting anywhere and I now have to change the head gasket here. Actually there was no capacity here at all because the hall was actually full. Everything needs to be cleared out first. It's just an emergency. And now I might have to change them around here. Emergency repair. And I don't have the expectation that things will somehow be so good, that everything will somehow last forever, but rather that we get home, because the engine needs to be checked again anyway and I don't have the time to do it now also go troubleshooting. What's actually going on with the engine? So the hope is that a change of direction will come home here and time is of the essence. So she's sitting at home. The situation is getting worse and faster than I thought and. It feels like every day counts. I believe. Now would be the right time to start praying. That it works. And that it starts well. Yes, it's running. I watched this at 1:00 a.m. yesterday. And when I finished. We had so much shit that was all messed up while it was being put together. Turkey just completely screwed up a bolt for the cylinder head because then it was a hammer against a blow. We couldn't get one screw out at the beginning, but then it went to 15. That's not normal, you can't get one. No die, so you get it. But not in a hurry now. And of course there is no substitute. Nope, it went wrong, then the cramp works. The electrician has to come quickly. The supports, everything looks good. The head gasket was completely destroyed. Good morning Yes. We have until 3 p.m. yesterday. Was Nicolas still working in the workshop? Then we actually drove another 450 kilometers home. And yes, I could certainly give you some idea of how we are feeling right now. Well, everything is overwhelming us at the moment. We. The whole situation here too. And we'll have to see first. We have to clear the ship here first. We first have to get an overview. So yes, it's difficult to say when the next video will come out. I've already said that we want to continue with YouTube. But first we have to see what. How can we sort this out somehow? After all, everything was canceled and we have to have our team and an infrastructure and we have to see where we stay. These are all things that we are now organizing in the next few days and weeks, assessing the situation here and sorting it out somehow so that it is somehow feasible for everyone. Well, definitely. Um, at the end we want to thank you again. We would like to say thank you to everyone who helped us, including with the engine, i.e. the financial support, as well as the advice and help we were given to repair everything. We really wanted everything to be okay with Odin now, but somehow it just wasn't meant to be. And that's why I would like to say thank you again, thank you to you and to those who encouraged us in the comments. Yes, we are back in Germany right now. It will. The weather is unstable. This makes it a little more difficult to film. Yes definitely. It's not an easy situation right now. I think you noticed that throughout the entire video and we are currently in a crisis. Now get into the next one. That's just how it is sometimes in life. Yes, there is just something else I wanted to say about that. There was always feedback where people accused us of whining. Well, first of all, I can't hear it anymore. Secondly, it wasn't the intention, you just didn't understand it. What we share or communicate here is just yes. We show everyone else what can happen in such a situation or in the situations that we have encountered. Yes, that our experience helps others perhaps not to have to go through this experience. Maybe you get it now. So yeah, everyone else. There were so many people who reported back to us, who said and gave feedback that they understood what an achievement it was to make these videos. On the one hand, being in a situation like that, going through these situations and then picking up the camera to show it all. There was a lot of feedback about it, where we were happy that this appreciation was there. And you shouldn't forget that the videos are such a small excerpt of what actually happened. And what determines our life consists of a whole week and not just 40 minutes. And of course that is also very, very difficult to transport. I think we actually managed it quite well, but for some people we just didn't manage to transport them. For him it was somehow just crying. Yes, you can't take everyone with you. No, exactly that. But that shouldn't even be the final word. Our final word should be thank you to all of you, everyone who watched, everyone who subscribed to us, who supported us, for example with an Amazon purchase or with a donation and we have already told you that it will be here Definitely continue YouTube. YouTube is a lot of fun for us to edit these videos. Despite all the challenges now, it's our job. So it's something we 've been working on for the last three years, investing a lot of time into. We had so many plans for it and still have so many plans for it, so YouTube isn't the only thing we planned to use to build our independence. It was actually the first step. Well, everything turned out differently. That's just how life is. And that's just the point. Life always has a different plan and you just have to see how you find your way around it and how you still implement the wishes you have. And we will now make the best of it in the current situation. Of course, in addition to all the family challenges that we are currently facing, we will also think about the truck, whether this truck will continue and what will happen next. We will continue to upload videos here on YouTube and we would be really happy if you stayed tuned. Even if it no longer has the same regularity as in the past. Exactly. So activate the bell so that you will be informed as soon as the next video comes out. Of course, we will do everything we can to inform you in advance that there will be another video. But of course the bell helps too. Exactly. So have a nice Sunday. Exactly, have a great time, because that is exactly what life is and the most important thing of all, we are now realizing that ourselves. Everyone stay healthy out there.