The man known to history as Ramesses the Great, was born in the late fourteenth century BC. Scholars tend to hold that he was most likely extant information as to his exact date of His father was a member of a leading aristocratic northern part of Egypt, probably from one the Nile River Delta. His original name is unclear, but he would Ramesses's mother was Tuya, the daughter member of the Egyptian military nobility herself. Ramesses was born into a world that had been of ancient times. This was the height of the Bronze Age and many parts of the Eastern Mediterranean and The Greek world was dominated by powers like on the island of Crete, and, throughout this were beginning to emerge in ways which would In what is now Turkey the powerful Hittite Hattusa. Shortly before Ramesses's birth it had begun and was effectively Egypt's most significant Further to the south-east a number of significant notably the Babylonian Empire and the Assyrian Each of these polities was wealthy, had complex trade across this Bronze Age world. For instance, a trader or merchant in a city century BC could purchase pottery from Knossos papyrus from Egypt and textiles from Mesopotamia gold and silver mined in places like western Cyprus, a major centre of copper mining, a weapons and other utensils. Egypt itself was no exception to this story This was an era known as the New Kingdom period, BC and which would extend beyond Ramesses's The term 'New Kingdom' is a relatively nineteenth century, but it is typically accepted a distinct period of Bronze Age culture in which had preceded it there, even the Old the great pyramids at Giza a millennium earlier. During this New Kingdom period the pharaohs viziers and many scribes. A large military was also kept at the ready, and weapons made of bronze. With all this in train the pharaohs were not and govern more efficiently at home, but the with outposts being established further down is now Sudan, but which was then known as acquired on the Sinai Peninsula and northwards This empire had reached a particular peak reign of Pharaoh Thutmose III, whose conquests parts of modern-day Syria and northern Iraq. Little is known about the specifics of Ramesses's of the time were extremely significant. At the time he was born Egypt was ruled by of Egyptian Pharaohs. Horemheb is known for having restored a certain politics after a tumultuous period during to establish a monotheistic cult of the sun, structures of Egypt. This caused enormous unrest within Egypt and Horemheb reversed many of these decisions along the course of the River Nile, but he no biological successor. As such he decided to designate the head of as his successor. Paramesse was Ramesses's grandfather and Dynasty of Egyptian Pharaohs when Paramesse Ramesses I, around 1292 BC. He ruled for just a few short years, before succeeded him as second pharaoh of the 19th of Seth, the Egyptian god of war. Ramesses was now the heir to the throne of as prince regent by his father who would reign he began to re-establish Egyptian control held to the north-east in Canaan and Syria but which had been lost as a result of the reign and religious reforms. Ramesses doubtless accompanied his father Levant and gained valuable military experience He would soon need this experience, as he man. He is known to have become pharaoh on the particular year of his father's reign, one date of 31 May 1279 BC. He would reign for the next 66 years in what reign of any Egyptian pharaoh, adopting the roughly, 'the law or harmony of Ra, the of Ra'. Ramesses's first major act as the new ruler been growing in the northern parts of the Even before his accession sea pirates, known the northern coast of the kingdom into the This was one of the most prosperous and important that these encroachments be stopped. Thus, beginning in the second year of his northern coast of the kingdom and north-eastwards New ships were also constructed to patrol warning posts were set up to signal to larger their way towards the Egyptian kingdom. All of this culminated in a major sea battle A stele or memorial stone commemorating this has survived down to modern times and provides details of how it occurred or what it involved, remain unclear. Having stabilised the Northern shores of Egypt became to restore Egyptian control over Canaan in earlier times. This was a paramount concern. While Egypt itself was an affluent land based the shores of the River Nile and the production and Memphis, the most affluent cities in the like Tyre and Sidon which were at the crossroads centres as a result. Consequently, Ramesses was anxious to restore two centuries earlier in the time of Thutmose However, while there was no state with an Canaan and the southern reaches of the Levant, Empire to the north. Much of Ramesses's rule would be concerned and stave off counterattacks by the Hittites. In the course of doing so he would fight arguably of the Bronze Age. One of Ramesses's first actions early in the north-eastern parts of the Nile Delta, the north-east into the Levant. The capital of pharaonic Egypt had moved around For instance, in ancient times during the what is now Cairo. However, the capital during the New Kingdom River Nile at what was known then as Thebes, Akhenaten, the controversial pharaoh who a attempted to establish a monotheistic religion a new capital at Amarna as a centre of the Thus, there was a substantial precedent for Ramesses named his new capital Pi-Ramesses Ramesses's father, Seti I, had previously likely that Ramesses had spent much of his Now, in the 1270s, he established it as a and factories erected to begin churning out and chariots. As such, Pi-Ramesses became a kind of administrative from Ramesses building programme, he never was the religious and spiritual capital of In the earliest part of his wars against the the ruler of the Hittite Empire since the This Muwatalli had taken advantage of Egyptian capital south from the traditional site at in the south-east of the Konya Plain. It was indicative of how both rulers saw Canaan, region which they needed to be near that both to be closer to the Levant. In the earliest years of his reign Ramesses from the Nile Delta. The first of these around 1275 BC resulted southern Canaan, before campaigning further Here he had a commemorative stele or pylon The text of this has been obliterated over successes in campaigning this far north, a region. Similarly he engaged in further campaigns much of what is now Syria as vassals of King However, whatever nominal control over this was ephemeral. No sooner had he withdrawn back to Pi-Ramesses Egyptian influence in Syria effectively collapsed The war between the Egyptians and the Hittites a battle which it is generally accepted occurred This was the Battle of Qadesh or Kadesh near River in western Syria. The Battle of Kadesh was clearly a highly substantial size by the standards of the Late or significant event by the parties involved. It is, for instance, the best documented military both sides making extensive records concerning wall paintings and inscriptions throughout world. Thus, the Battle of Kadesh was unquestionably era-defining military engagement. The background of the battle was Ramesses's As with the previous year's campaign his north into Syria at the expense of the Hittites. Ramesses led four divisions of troops into These were named for some of the paramount and consisted of perhaps as many as 40,000 the campaign. These were augmented by thousands of Canaanite However, not all of these forces were deployed forces did not exceed 30,000 men in total Arrayed against him was Muwatalli's army with several thousand chariots also brought Consequently the armies of the two sides were A striking aspect of the engagement was the and Hittite scholars speculating since that In its initial stages Ramesses was caught He received false intelligence about the location whereas in fact Muwatalli's armies were Egyptian advance party. As a result, when the Hittites attacked, some far to the south and could not be brought As a result the Ra division was scattered stages of the battle near Kadesh. However, this is the point at which Ramesses's as he steeled the Amun division of his troops breaking their chariot assault. Some accounts have it that the fault also their initial attack had proved conclusive and goods of the Ra division, leaving them Thereafter Muwatalli ordered his troops to Later Egyptian accounts suggest that the Ptah the Hittites. Muwatalli ordered a new counterattack led to break the Egyptian advanced. Eventually the Hittites were forced to flee cases throwing their weapons and armour aside It is unclear exactly how conclusive the alleged Some Egyptologists believe that the battle He certainly depicted it as such. For the rest of his long reign the pharaoh and wall paintings placed in temples and in for Egypt in Syria. These include the Kadesh Inscriptions or Bulletin the Egyptian victory which is repeated on of the River Nile. The Poem is extant in eight different places, in seven different locations around Egypt. Consequently it is clearly something which version of his alleged victory at Kadesh. But other scholars of the Late Bronze Age that Kadesh was probably more of a stalemate Certainly it cannot have been the kind of to depict it as, for the battle did not lead in Syria. Rather the Egyptians and the Hittites continued The Battle of Kadesh did not bring the war complete conclusion, though it did signal of clashes between the Egyptians and the Hittites. Skirmishes continued for years thereafter. For instance, in 1269 BC Ramesses launched conquered the city of Dapur, however the pattern to briefly acquire control over parts of Syria longer term control over the region could military presence was withdrawn. In recognition of this situation around 1259 what is variously called either the Egyptian-Hittite This was signed between Ramesses II and Hattusili Empire at some point in the 1260s. The Eternal Treaty effectively brokered a agreed to cease hostilities as it was costing and achieving little for either. Thus, Syria was to become a sphere of Hittite its control of Canaan and other more southerly Bonds were agreed and pledges made and the The Eternal Treaty is one of the most famed This is owing to the highly unusual survival millennia later in different languages. Copies of the text of the treaty in Egyptian separate locations in Luxor in central Egypt Then, in the first years of the twentieth uncovered a copy of the text in the Akkadian Empire and other states of the Middle East cache of approximately ten-thousand tablets ancient Hittite capital at Hattusa in Turkey. Thus, we have a remarkable example here of deposited in royal archives and temples in over 3,200 years ago. As to the motives of the respective parties, had both come to believe that peace and the more beneficial than a continuation of their wary of the rise of the Assyrian Empire to front against this upstart power was better The signing of the Eternal Treaty also provided concentrate militarily on matters to the south For roughly a millennium between the middle 1500 BC the region of modern-day Sudan had At the time it was known as Nubia and was states like the Kingdom of Kush. However, during the New Kingdom Period and III Nubia had gradually been brought more As with Canaan and Syria, Egyptian control by Akhenaten's rule in the fourteenth century reverse this situation. Early in his reign he had already campaigned These cataracts are a series of locations white-water rapids predominate, and were used arms were extended as far as was possible By the 1260s Ramesses had effectively extended which lies south of Abu Simbel and Wadi Halfa But the period following the establishment a military respite which allowed Ramesses Third Cataract. This lies well into Sudan at the northern Here Ramesses was able to establish a southern the discovery of pharaonic and royal inscriptions Kingdom in the thirteenth century BC. Thus, by the 1240s BC Ramesses had effectively outright Egyptian control. Ramesses was soon campaigning westwards as Our knowledge of Libya in ancient times is in close proximity to major centres of civilization Generally speaking, the main settlement points the north coast or slightly inland, but proximate The land here was known as Tjehenu to the Libya is a name derived from later Greek descriptions Despite the lack of historical knowledge about there was significant contact between the Period, mostly in the form of Berber raids and Egyptian efforts to establish coastal Ramesses attempted to further this effort coastline and reinforcing a fort at Zawyet established earlier after campaigning against In the course of Ramesses's reign this became kingdom, though trade centres and vassal states proper. These accomplishments, as with nearly everything were recorded in a series of stelae and other Egypt later in his reign. With these campaigns in Nubia and Libya, and by the middle of his reign Ramesses had succeeded point it had been at since the days of Thutmose Beyond the pharaoh's core control of Egypt, Nile, effectively repossessing Nubia after the period of instability under Akhenaten Elsewhere Ramesses had campaigned westwards north coast to bring Libya into a partial However, it was his conquests to the north-east Here Ramesses had captured Canaan and much It wasn't simply that this was one of the affluent trading cities like Tyre and Sidon, Ramesses had to defeat one of the most substantial In doing so he carved out one of the largest Thus, in the Late Bronze Age Ramesses had the most powerful state in the known world, that had characterised Egypt as recently as Throughout his military campaigns of the 1270s, an ever growing number of his sons. This is unsurprising when we consider that 100 children, of which a roughly equal amount Such a large brood was a by-product of the Ramesses had many wives, the details of several For instance, his primary consort was Nefertari, Her background is not precisely known, but from Pharaoh Ay who had ruled Egypt four decades the 18th Dynasty. She and Ramesses evidently married quite young, ascended to the throne around 1279 BC. They had many children together and on the which Ramesses had built in her honour, there of his wives. She is also somewhat unique as a queen consort extant correspondence. Nefertari wrote on multiple occasions to King and his wife, Puduhepa, in the 1260s and 1250s unearthed in the Hittite capital Hattusa. Nefertari died around 1255 and since Ramesses wives emerged in the years that followed. Paramount amongst these was Isetnofret. She too seems to have married Ramesses before a junior consort while Nefertari lived. Her seniority from the mid-1250s is attested her which appear on statues and temple walls Other great wives of the pharaoh emerged from For instance, as part of the Eternal Treaty one of the daughters of King Hattusuli III marriage to Maathorneferure was not solemnised Hittite king's daughter was considered to in the early 1250s BC. Curiously enough some of Ramesses's other Bintanath, for instance, was born from Ramesses's her own father. Such familial relationships were common throughout in significant complications of inbreeding, Tutankhamun fifty years before Ramesses's Tutankhamun suffered from multiple physical debated, but which Egyptologists concur were that characterised Ramesses II's own familial This extensive royal family was intimately with the cult of Ra, the sun god and one of system, who was also worshipped as Amun-Ra Ra, along with others such Ptah and Horus, and, as we will see shortly, Ramesses's from the 1260s onwards made continuous efforts these particular deities. From the early 1240s BC onwards, once Ramesses also able to become the centre of his own the Sed Festival or Feast of the Tail. This was a religious festival which was held who had ruled for over thirty years. It was nominally held in honour of the wolf The origins of the festival are somewhat macabre. It may have been the case that the Sed Festival long-lived pharaoh was ritually murdered, age it was time for him to be removed from Over time the festival changed to one in which Under Ramesses the Sed Festival was celebrated first time in 1249 BC. Thereafter it was held every three years for Such was the length of his reign that he went Sed Festivals. If the first half of Ramesses's reign was of the realm's borders, the second half projects which were undertaken by the Pharaoh. Ancient Egypt is synonymous with brilliant at irregular intervals. For instance, the First Intermediate Period late third millennium BC prior to the advent of lacklustre building projects. Conversely the New Kingdom Period, which had age of major building projects commissioned Ramesses's II was the greatest proponent religious and mortuary architecture. In fact his reign witnessed the most significant pharaohs such as Cheops, who in the twenty-sixth at Giza near modern-day Cairo, including the of the ancient world. However, by the New Kingdom Period such monumental focused more on erecting great temples, obelisks gods, rather than on giant pyramids to act One of the most significant building projects in central Egypt, the traditional capital Here Ramesses had the Ramesseum built on the west bank of the River Nile in the city where religious buildings over the centuries. The Ramesseum took roughly twenty years to several courtyards surrounding it. Large stone pylons and gateways lead from of Ramesses towering over the inner court. The temple itself consisted of three rooms up the sanctuary. Throughout them stand many statues of the colossal statues of Ramesses once adorned Unfortunately, several of these were removed are now found in places in Europe such as On what remains, reliefs commemorate Ramesses's both inside and outside the temple. What is particularly interesting about the scribal school was also established here, courtyard, indicating that this was a site functions. It clearly served as a centre of pharaonic out of the traditional New Kingdom capital. Ramesses also ordered some construction work This is a site not far from the great pyramids ever built in ancient Egypt, that of Pharaoh twenty-seventh century BC. And Saqqara remained a major centre of monumental Ramesses decided to make his own contributions one of his eldest sons, Prince Khaemweset. For instance, the pair had the pyramid of lived in the twenty-fourth century BC, repaired of the edifice to indicate that they had overseen Ramesses and his son also enlarged the Temple centre of the cult of Apis, the bull god of the physical manifestation of Ptah, the Egyptian Recent archaeological discoveries at Saqqara who served for a time as grand vizier and His was not the only tomb built at Saqqara reign and the site at Saqqara highlights the height of the New Kingdom in ancient Egypt. One of the most significant aspects of Ramesses's he used grand temples and buildings as a way into regions which had largely become independent BC. This was particularly the case to the south Nile. Ramesses had many temples constructed here of the rejuvenation of Egyptian rule here. One of the most impressive was the Temple in the middle of the River Nile just a few This was dedicated to some of the foremost Amun-Ra, Re-Horakhti, Khnum and Anuket. It is notable for having some of the best reliefs from ancient Egypt, many of which his subjugation of the region. His campaigns into Syria and Libya are also Over a hundred kilometres to the south, on had the two temples of Wadi es-Sebua also in the process. The site here was used as a stop off point Nubia. Ramesses thus had the temples constructed dedicated them both to himself and Amun-Ra. Perhaps the most striking architectural feature as individuals entered and left the temples. Perhaps the greatest building project undertaken of Luxor near what is now the border between This was the temple complex near what was today as Abu Simbel. Here Ramesses had initiated the construction They would take twenty years to complete, carved in a sheer rock-face near the village. One of these was dedicated to Ramesses himself primary consort, Queen Nefertari. When it was completed in 1244 BC the Great as, quote, "The Temple of Ramesses, beloved It consisted of a grand entrance which led major Egyptian deities. Sculptures and reliefs adorned the interior. It is also believed that the temple was built sunlight on the 22nd of October and the 22nd here. It is speculated that these dates are significant birth and coronation as pharaoh. Moreover, the reliefs and sculptures are celebratory and his victories depicted on the walls, notably While the interior of the Temple of Abu Simbel the temple complex is the series of colossal of the main entrance outside the temple. At the grand temple there are four such colossal All four of these depict Ramesses and stand some of the largest pharaonic statues ever Egyptian history. It is difficult to get a precise idea of how but if one stands next to them an individual the remainder of the statues towering well On each statue Ramesses was depicted wearing a statement here in the border region between of the land of the River Nile both to the Thus, the Temple of Abu Simbel was meant as over Egypt, a proclamation of sorts to those here yet again. Abu Simbel is the pinnacle of Ramesses's Ramesses's reign is notable for its length. Having most likely succeeded his father in 65 years. However, what is somewhat unusual about this half of it was and in particular the last All of the notable events of his time as pharaoh, and the campaigns west to Libya and south or so years of his rule. Even the monumental building programmes which although many of them took upwards of twenty by the early 1230s BC. By way of comparison, the last twenty or so of a mystery. There is little evidence of major events or This is quite possibly because the pharaoh life and with his health declining. Scientific analysis of his mummy in recent from a range of ailments in old age, including issues. But he survived for an immense amount of time Such evidence as we have indicates Ramesses of his reign, probably aged around 90, an of the time. He was originally interred in the Valley of in the hills outside Thebes, but owing to on several occasions. Like all the ancient pharaohs he was mummified, across the centuries. Ramesses was succeeded by his son, Merneptah, which means, "The Soul of Ra, Beloved of This Merneptah is believed to have been the which should have placed him well down the father. However, Ramesses had lived for so long, that Indeed Merneptah was probably well into his his reign would only last ten years. The most significant development during his tribes of Libya at the Battle of Perire in Thereafter there was a quick succession of end with the dying out of Ramesses's direct Thus, the dynasty lasted for just over a century of Ramesses II. However, in recognition of the extraordinary of the 20th Dynasty adopted his regnal name. In all there were eventually eleven Ramesses, who died around 1077 BC. In death Ramesses II has acquired an even it has been regularly speculated that he is in the Old Testament. This is one of the earliest sections of the and Christianity. In it the story of the Jews who are effectively of Goshen, but which is Pharaonic Egypt, is This picks up from the book of Genesis, which prophet Jacob, had been tricked by his brothers Over the next several generations a large Egypt under the subjucation of the Egyptian In Exodus we read the story of how the Jewish and sent down the River Nile by his mother, murder of Jewish children following concern were then present in Egypt. Moses is subsequently found and adopted into affection of the Egyptian king, but Moses Eventually he realises he is one of the Israelites the Red Sea as the pharaoh's forces attempt The debate on Ramesses is whether he could of the book of Exodus or his biological son There is really no substantive case, however, effect. The book of Exodus makes no effort to identify involved in Pharaonic Egypt at the time and are, of course, open to speculation as well. Consequently, different writers have speculated as early as the seventeenth century BC and pharaoh of the book of Exodus or his biological An unusually high proportion of people have who was the pharaoh at the time, with this Hollywood treatment of Moses's life, notably was depicted by Yul Brynner. These depictions are largely due to Ramesses reign was lengthy and he was involved in military oppression of the Israelites. These things aside, though, there is no historical pharaoh of the Book of Exodus. Indeed, that Ramesses should be identified fitting. After all, much of the tale of Moses portends the Israelites to return to their ancestral And there is no doubting that New Kingdom decline shortly after Ramesses's reign. Beginning around 1200 BC the Eastern Mediterranean, by a series of attacks by a mysterious confederation identified as the Sea Peoples. There is no consensus even today as to who although it has plausibly been speculated Mediterranean, possibly from Italy and parts Wherever they came from, what we do know is with the arrival of other warlike peoples Greece around this time, was an immediate to destabilise societies such as those of What followed is typically referred to as of the ancient world, as the powerful states centuries either declined dramatically or The Hittite Empire splintered into several century BC, while Bronze Age Mycenae and the destroyed. New Kingdom Egypt also entered a period of a substantial polity, albeit much weakened in terms of its territorial expanse. This reflected much of what occurred elsewhere. Trade collapsed across the Bronze Age world the economy was so impacted that whole cities such that many historians of the ancient past world, similar to what followed the collapse What is known as the Third Intermediate Period New Kingdom as new regional powers began to some of them hailing from Nubia in the south. Ramesses II's tomb was discovered during This was a time when Egyptology, the study golden age following the deciphering of Egyptian The great pharaoh's tomb was discovered a wider cache of royal tombs dating to the Ramesses's tomb, like nearly all other pharaohs, and revealed nothing to rival the riches of forty years later by Howard Carter. However, Ramesses's tomb is nevertheless on the sarcophagus which listed Ramesses's an inventory of his burial goods. The inscriptions also indicate that Ramesses but rather he was first laid to rest in the for the next eighty years until such time relocated. What is especially strange about all of this wooden and painted death mask and sarcophagus recycled from the tomb of one of his near 18th Dynasty. It is also evident that renovations were carried indicating that the ancient Egyptians did for all time when they were laid to rest, which were to be maintained and improved where Unsurprisingly, given the extent of the building to feature regularly in studies of ancient Indeed in the case of Abu Simbel his temple relocation projects ever undertaken. In the 1950s the new government of General following the Egyptian Revolution of 1952, in order to henceforth control the annual which so much of the country's agriculture The resulting flooding and the creation of dam would have submerged Abu Simbel. Accordingly, in 1959 the Egyptian government This petition was granted and over the next firms undertook the project for the Egyptian The work involved was highly complex, as Abu stone, but was carved into a cliff-face. Thus, the temple was rescued by effectively and then transplanting the temple piece by and much higher above ground. Thus, Abu Simbel now overlooks the River Nile from a different vantage point and site. Owing to the length of his reign and its significance, modern popular culture. For instance, Norman Mailer's Ancient Evenings, was an enormous fictional account of Pharaonic century BC, but in which the characters repeatedly The Battle of Kadesh is a major feature of Ramesses was also the subject of works by Jacq, while he is the central character too So too does he appear in many numerous Hollywood But surely the most notable popular cultural appeared two centuries ago in the Romantic the Greek name for Ramesses. Here Shelley used Ramesses as an example of or death. It was meant to be a reflection by Shelley from power in France and Europe just a few but Shelley used Ramesses as his analogy as time that the British Museum had just acquired the Ramesseum. Shelley's repetition of the inscription Ozymandias, king of kings: Look on my works, must rank as amongst some of the most famous Ramesses II or Ramesses the Great was arguably of which there were over 170 across three His reign is notable for many things. From a political and military perspective point it had seen since the reign of Thutmose Egypt reached its greatest extremity by conquering Ramesses did this primarily by defeating the with them for hegemony over the rich coastal Sidon. The peak of his success in this respect was Treaty of 1259 BC. But it was not just here where Ramesses was He also campaigned against the Sherden sea plaguing the northern coast of Egypt for many westwards along the Mediterranean coast towards Finally, to the south he extended the Egyptian course of the River Nile into what is now This New Kingdom Empire of Ramesses II was times. However, there is also the distinct possibility which he has in studies of ancient Egypt and Ramesses was one of history's first great There was no success which he achieved on he did not commemorate in stone in such a or even millennia to come. Thus, for instance, we find him setting stone and the Levant to proclaim his victories over to the world and to future generations. But it was his building programme in places way down the Nile near Aswan which afforded Here in stone he proclaimed to all his magnificence his many military accomplishments. Yet, while these building works may have been brilliance. Accordingly, from the perspective of the twenty-first was in having these magnificent temples, statues years ago. What do you think of Ramesses the Great? Was he Ancient Egypt's greatest pharaoh to a shrewd policy of propaganda concerning of his own military victories? Please let us know in the comment section, watching.