Good Stop This round is won by Zhu Chunyong of Dongtai faction. Good fight. Good fight. Good fight. The next match is Inoue of Heshi Dojo vs. Wang Qisheng of Baihemen. &quot;How about a good start? Stop, Qisheng, a little Japanese kid challenger.&quot; It was a competition of martial arts and you actually killed people in the ring. You had no fists and no eyesight because everyone in the ring signed a life and death certificate. He died because he was not good at studying. He deserves to die. You little devil, I have to teach you a lesson today, Master Ye. Master Ye, you can't do this. The rules of the ring competition are all messed up. The referee, Inoue, did not come to the ring to compete at all, but deliberately came to kill people. Such a person should terminate his competition and disqualify him from the competition. Tomorrow, I will compete with your son. Tomorrow, I will compete with your son. I'm afraid that if I kill your son, everyone who enters this arena has signed a life and death certificate. Why should I be disqualified? Inoue, the martial arts competition is just to compare martial arts, so why take human life? There is so much nonsense. If you win, you win. Let your son come early tomorrow and give in to me, or else he It's still dead. Today's first contest is between Wei Qiming from Shenzhou Martial Arts Hall and Yu Inoue from Washishi Dojo. Please come on to the stage. Come on, the contest started well. Inoue-kun fought well. Wei Qiming won this one. Come on, Wei Qiming wins this time. Come on, come on. Come on, this game is over. I'm not convinced. I still want to fight. Inoue, according to the rules of the competition, you have lost and you are not qualified to enter the ring again. I advise you to pack up and go back to Japan. By the way, I would like to tell you that Emperor China's territory does not allow you to infringe on the lives of Chinese people. It does not allow you to infringe on the dignity of Chinese people. It does not allow you to infringe on the dignity of Chinese people. Today is an arena competition. I will let you go for the time being. I will let you go for the time being. If you dare to do evil in Cangzhou again, I will I will never spare you. I will beat you, brother, don't be impulsive. Today is not the time to do anything. Get out, get out of China, get out quickly. We have won the competition of all participating teams. After these days of competition, today is the final of the Cangzhou Martial Arts Competition, led by Shenzhou Martial Arts. Wei Qiming from the gym and Ye Zhengnan from the Ye Family Martial Arts Hall are vying for the martial arts leader. Please come on stage and get out of the way. Both of them are not qualified. Only I am the leader. Only I am the leader. Yesterday, Inoue, you already After losing to Wei Qiming, he is not qualified to enter the ring again. How did he win against me yesterday? Doesn't he know? Everyone, listen, I lost the match yesterday because I drank a lot of wine. Someone poisoned my wine. This person is Ye Qianqian. Ye Qianqian It's Wei Qiming's man, Inoue. Don't slander me. Wei Qiming doesn't know about this at all. Yes, Ye Qianqian is the daughter of my second uncle. She may have poisoned the wine, but I didn't know about it before it happened. Wei Qiming, you are talking nonsense. My daughter will never do such a treasonous thing. Today I will beat you to death for your slanderous father. Qianqian has already admitted something. Let's talk about it when we go back. She has given the face of our Ye family. I'm so embarrassed. Everyone heard that I drank poisonous wine and lost the match. You Chinese people are really despicable. You can't beat me. What kind of hero are you using such despicable methods? I'm not convinced that I lost. I want to return to the ring. Inoue, you've already lost. You have no right to speak in the ring anymore. Wei Qiming, what kind of man are you? If you are a man, go to the ring today to compete with me. If you can beat me, I will be convinced that I lost. If you lose to me, you will always be my loser. Why should I fight with you? You are my subordinate to begin with. The reason why I don't fight you is because I don't want to break the rules of the ring . Do you know what [ __ ] rules are? No one can defeat me. Only I am the ring. Lord Inoue, you have already lost to Qiming, and you are not qualified to fight him again. If you want to lose again, I, Ye Zhengnan, will accompany you. You are still a man. Come on, I will send you to the West in advance. Be good. Be good. Senior brother, senior brother, great , great. Okay, 678, what are you doing here, people from Keiko Kono? Miss Keiko, we and Shi Dojo, we and Shi Dojo, are with you, Ye's Martial Arts School, Shenzhou Martial Arts School, we have always been a well- watered person, and we have always been a well-watered person, and we are here to see Kono Keiko. Call her out. Senior brother, Miss Huizi is not well. Wei Hongsheng and Ye Shanqun broke into the gym and said they wanted to see Miss Huizi. They must have come because of Wei Qifan. These two old guys are not good at dealing with Huizi. You go here first and hand it over. I, Fujino, am taking Miss Keiko out of the back door . Miss Keiko, please thank me, brothers and masters. What kind of wind is it today? What kind of wind is it that brought Master Wei and Master Ye to my dojo together? Stop talking nonsense. Where is Keiko? Master, what's the matter with my junior sister? Keiko instigated someone to kidnap my son. Please hand her over. Did the two masters make a mistake? How could my junior sister do such a thing? Inoue, please don't waste your time. Hand over Keiko, or we will We're about to search. Wait, this is the dojo of the Japanese Empire. You Chinese can't search it if you want. Don't talk nonsense. We must find Keiko today. So first, ask about the sword in my hand. Brother Inoue, Master, they. Who are these two people? They are Ye Zongshou's sons, Ye Shanqun and his eldest disciple Wei Hongsheng. These two people came to our dojo today to look for trouble. Ye Zongshou's disciple and son are the only ones in Cangzhou who can rival me, Heiichiro Ishida. It's a pity that Ye Zongshou is the only one who can challenge me. His old man is dead. I think his descendants are nothing more than that. You two are so brave. You dare to come to my dojo to act wild. You misunderstood. We are definitely not here to act wild. It's just that my son was kidnapped. It has something to do with Keiko. Regarding the fact that we came here to find Keiko, we just want to know the whereabouts of my son. Please let Keiko come out and explain this matter clearly. I don't know if Keiko kidnapped your son, but it is absolutely impossible for me to call her out. Absolutely. It's impossible for you. I will give you two choices now. You can either leave immediately or have a martial arts competition with me. The rules of the martial arts competition include fists, feet, and blindness. Life and death are left to fate. If my master beats you to death today, it will only mean that you have learned. If you are not good at art and have nothing to do with my master, I will beat Wei Hongsheng and Ye Shanqun if you are afraid of death. As long as you two kneel in front of me and kowtow three times, I will spare your life, you old devil, give us Kneeling down is not enough, Ishida, just come over here. We will not bow to the Japanese. Come together, you two. I really want to see how the apprentices taught by the Chinese martial arts master Ye Zongshou can pick up my moves. Ye Zongshou's disciples also But it can be seen that Ye Zongshou is just a wasted reputation. I don't need you to protect me this round. I'm going to attack him. You find an opportunity to stop. The competition is over here. We haven't finished the fight yet. We have to continue to fight. The winner has been decided. Master Ye has already decided. I'm injured. You and Shi Dojo win. If you don't obey the rules, our brothers from all the martial arts schools in Cangzhou will not agree. Master, leave it to me. Yang Shixuan, your death date has come and it's you two again. Are you here to die? Come on, Qiming, go save Wenli and leave it to me. Wenli, Wenli, dad, are you okay? Come to Wenli, let's go. Let's go, old guy, why don't you toast and eat the fine wine? Yamamoto, Yamamoto, you want to go wild and go wrong. No one has ever dared to act arrogantly in our Shenzhou martial arts hall, little Japan. I think you are seeking death . This is a martial arts hall. You want to bully the few with your strength? Ye Zongshou, if you have the ability to compete with me one on one, little devil, do you think you are? Who is it? Our Shenzhou Martial Arts School is afraid that you will fail. Well, if I win, the prescription of Jinchuang Powder will be mine. If you lose? Come on, why don't you kill me? If I don't kill you today, I will give you a chance to change your ways. Go back and tell your masters that the Chinese people are not allowed to be bullied by you . Hongsheng is informing all shops that our Jin Chuang Powder can only be sold to The Chinese will never sell to the Japanese pirates. Sorry, let's give it to you. We are here on the orders of Master Ye Zongshou of the Shenzhou Martial Arts School, which is also the order of my grandpa. The one who came to deliver medicine to you is Master Ye. Disciple, Master Ye's Jinchuang Powder is a good medicine for healing wounds. It is really a timely help to our soldiers and innocent injured people on the Northeast battlefield. Here are six boxes of Jinchuang Powder and thirty yuan in the ocean. Thirty yuan is what Master Ye entrusted us to give to you. Thank you. Don't be polite. Drive away the traitors. It is the responsibility of each of us Chinese to protect our country and protect our country. Isn't that right? That's right. What are you doing? What are you doing? You are going too far. This is a Chinese place. You Japanese are not allowed to run wild here. Get out. Just a few of you want to overthrow our Imperial Japanese brothers. They are too arrogant. Beat the little devils quickly. Then Someone is beating the Japanese. Let's go and see. Let's fight well. Let them bully people and beat them to death. He asked them to bully people and beat them to death. Beat them. Beat the little devils well. Fight well. Beat well. Beat well. Zhengnan Qiming. It's okay, it's okay, let me come to Qianqian, why are you here? Qifan, the beating is good, the beating is so good , yes, it relieves the anger , the beating is good, you little Japanese, get out of China as soon as possible, or else I'll get beaten once One time, little devil, grandpa crippled your legs today. What are you doing? How dare you form a clique and fight on the ground under my jurisdiction? Yes, they were the first to cause the fight. Yes, they were the first to cause the trouble. They were the first to do it. They were the ones who made the first move. We must be unreasonable. Catch them. Stop. Shut up. Bring all these troublemakers back to the police station. Junior sister, how is your mission in Cangzhou going? Thank you for your concern. Senior brother, everything is going well. That's good. Senior brother, I have something to ask you. Takeuchi-kun is coming to Cangzhou next month. I hope he can be well taken care of when he comes. Junior sister, don't worry. I will take good care of Takeuchi-kun when he arrives. I will definitely take good care of him. Also, junior sister, don't forget. My advice to you, brother, I'm sure who's going to chase, stop, stop, don't run, stop, stop, they are Wei Qiming from Shenzhou Martial Arts School and Ye Zhengnan from Ye's Martial Arts School. I'm going to kill you in our dojo today. Don't chase Wenli. Why did you go to Yue Fulou to eat alone? Why didn't you find Zhengnan to accompany you? I eat by myself and don't need anyone to accompany you. What's wrong? Don't mention him. Did you quarrel? Did you quarrel? Ah, no, I 'm bullying you. I'm bullying you. I really don't have a dad. Just stop asking. Dad, stop . Wenli, look at your dad. Are you okay? Dad is okay. Why are you bleeding so much? Let me take you to the hospital. I'll take you to the hospital. Hospital, are you okay? Here I will take you to the hospital to see if you are okay. Now reveal your true face. Zhengnan Zhengnan Zhengnan Where are you Zhengnan Zhengnan Where are you Zhengnan Zhengnan Zhengnan Zhengnan Zhengnan Is there anyone there Zhengnan Nan, is there anyone? Zhengnan, are you there? Zhengnan, is it you? Zhengnan, Zhengnan, Zhengnan, Zhengnan, wake up, Zhengnan, wake up, Zhengnan, wake up, Zhengnan, what's going on? Zhengnan, what's going on? Why are you bleeding so much? Why are you bleeding so much? Wake up quickly. Is there anyone? Come here quickly. Help, Zhengnan. You must hold on. You must persist. Stay, Zhengnan Wenli, I love you, I love you, what did you say? Zhengnan, Zhengnan, why didn't you tell me until now? If you want to love me, don't die. Zhengnan, you must have a lot to say. Tell me whether it's right or not. Tell me whether it's right or not. You must hold on. Is there anyone in Zhengnan? Help! Come on, someone. Open the door. Open the door. Open the door. Who is this person in the middle of the night? On the fifth day of the lunar month, go. Open the door, open the door, come on, come on, Captain He, Master Ye, something happened, something big happened. What happened? What happened? Ye Zhengnan was seriously injured now and was sent to the hospital. What happened? Zhengnan was seriously injured. Yeah, what happened? What's going on? What's going on? Today, the masked man assassinated the director. Ye Zhengnan came to help, but the director was injured. As a result, the director was injured. Ye Zhengnan was also shot. They were all sent to the hospital. My cousin was also shot, yes, mine. Zheng Nan, my cousin, this masked man who suffered a thousand blows, has to die . Okay, stop crying. Stop crying. Let 's go to the hospital quickly. Go to the hospital and see where it is . Go right away. Come to the hospital quickly, Director, don't worry. I've sent heavy troops to guard this hospital. It's absolutely safe. And I've also sent troops across the city to hunt down the masked man. He's so shameless. He's so shameless. He beat the director so hard. Don't worry about beating the director so hard . I will bring him to justice as soon as possible. I want to see Miss Director Yang. You can't go in. I want to see the director. If you can't go in, hurry up. Why are you going to see what's going on? The director is resting. I want to see Yang. Director, go to Captain Gao. She is my friend. Let her in quickly. Director's friend, please Qiuping, look at why you are here. Shixuan, are you not hurt anywhere? I heard that something happened to you, and I was scared to death. Shixuan, you must not let anything happen to you. If you have a bad thing like me, I don't know how to survive. Qiuping, don't say that, don't worry, nothing will happen to me. Do n't cry, Miss Yang, please, Daddy, how are you? Baby, why are you here? Daddy, is everything okay? Zhengnan is still undergoing surgery. This damn masked man is so hateful. He first assassinated me, and then he attacked Zhengnan again. I must capture the poisonous hand and bring him to justice. The one who injured you and Zhengnan was not the real masked man, but a bad guy pretending to be the real masked man. He also helped me send Zhengnan to the hospital tonight. What do you mean, Wenli? Are there two masked men tonight? Are there two masked men? The real masked men will not assassinate Zhengnan, they will only save him. Although I have been in Cangzhou not long ago , I have also heard of this masked man. Xia has always been a chivalrous person who robbed the rich and helped the poor. But why would he assassinate Shixuan, you and Zhengnan now? There must be something fishy in this. Shixuan, you need to investigate it carefully. Aunt Ping is right, dad, don't be fooled by appearances. I made a mistake and blamed the masked man. I will investigate this matter carefully, Mr. Mo. It's all my fault that Zhengnan was injured this time. It's all my fault. I shouldn't let him be involved in this matter. I'm sorry, Mr. Mo. I can't blame you. You think the same. I'm just helping. I hope Zhengnan can be safe. But what happened tonight is very strange to me. Why did the person pretending to be me kill Yang Shixuan? Mr. Mo, do you think we have misunderstood Yang Shixuan? In fact, this matter is easy to judge. Do you think? Ah, the person pretending to be you must be Japanese. If Yang Shixuan and the Japanese colluded together, why did the Japanese kill Yang Shixuan? It can only be said that Yang Shixuan and the Japanese did not collude together. You have forgotten the so-called bitterness scheme. We cannot underestimate those Japanese gangs. Mr. Renmo, you mean that this is all just speculation. I don't have any evidence yet. If you say that, the police will misunderstand you even more. Then they will not understand even more. Then they will have to go all out to catch you. Now they only have to pretend to be me. Catch that person, clear my name, force me to take action, force me to take action, this is Ishida's goal all along, it seems it's time, Zhengnan, wake up, you wake up, Zhengnan, brother, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, Zhengnan. You scared your mother to death. Wenli, how is your father? My father is fine. He was only slightly injured. Zheng Nan is in good danger this time. Fortunately, you didn't hurt any vital parts. You just lost too much blood and will recover after a period of rest. The masked man who suffered a thousand blows not only killed my cousin but also wanted to kill my son. I cursed him to die and wanted to kill the masked man. I think he is just a masked thief. The Masked King of Hell was not the masked man but someone pretended to be her. Mr. Ye is awake. Dean is here. Dean Wang, thank you for your hard work in performing the surgery on Zheng Nan. Master Ye, don't worry. Mr. Ye is fine. Although he was shot once, his internal organs and bones were not damaged. He just lost too much blood. It caused a coma. I think he is strong and can go home after a few days of rest. You are tired. To be honest, Master Ye, Mr. Ye, it is better to go home to recuperate in the hospital. The secret recipe passed down by the Ye family is the healing medicine. Our hospital is the best. The healing medicine is not as good as the Ye Family's Jinshang Powder. Thank you, Dean Wang, for the compliment. Thank you, Dean Wang, for the compliment. I think you should go back early. Mr. Ye just woke up and is very weak. He needs a lot of time to rest. We'll do it right away. I'm leaving right now. I'll take my leave first. Thank you, dean. Thank you, brother. Does your wound still hurt? What nonsense? It's a gunshot wound. Does it hurt? I'll bring you the Jin Chuang Powder I saved at home. I have something to do at Zhengnan Pharmacy. I'll go back and see you later. I'll see you later. Wenli, don't tire yourself out. Wenli, don't be tired either. There are so many things going on in the pharmacy. Go ahead. There are so many things in the pharmacy. Go ahead. Qianqian and I will take care of you. Wenli Zhengnan, you have a good rest.