I've always been fascinated by very efficiently The Atari 2600 is an interesting example on had to fit in 4K of ROM. While later cartridges ended up using bank games really had to be coded very efficiently, of the game. But if you think 4K would be tough to code My friend Robin Harbron coded this little for the Ultima games. It's a little role playing game that fits Very impressive. But can you go even smaller? Well, yeah. Here's another one. This is called "SPlatform" and fits in So, to put things into perspective, how much Well, each of these dots represents a single And here's 1,024 of them. Now, you're typical assembly language instruction So, you could probably have a total of around But that wouldn't leave any room for data, So, it would be a very delicate balance between But what about even smaller than this? Indeed, could games be written in just 512 It turns out, yes they can. In fact, 512 bytes is a magic number because So, just a refresher here from my floppy disk Your typical 360K floppy disk for an IBM or outer rim to the inner core. And then the disk is divided up into 9 sectors The boot sector is the first sector of track And as you can see, it's a very small portion Of course, that's a 360K disk. What about the more common 1.44 MB floppy That format has twice as many tracks, and But a single sector is still just 512 bytes, of the disk surface. So, what does this boot sector do? Well, the BIOS is in a ROM chip on the motherboard, So, the BIOS has just enough code to read it. But the boot sector isn't big enough to purpose is to load the real operating system You might be surprised to find that, at least floppy disk and hard disk has a boot sector. And, there's a program installed on every Have you ever accidentally left a floppy disk that says "Invalid System Disk. Replace the disk, then press any key." Now, you might think this message is coming And that would be a good guess. But if that were the case, then how would When I put a different blank disk in, the Now it says "non system disk or disk error." What's the difference? Well, the first disk was formatted with Windows And that message you seen the screen is actually blank disk, which displays this message. Using a sector editor, you could actually For example, I changed the message on the and then continues to boot to your hard drive Boot sectors were also historically targeted The viruses were just small programs that load the operating system afterwords. And then, they would copy themselves to either floppy disks and because the virus loaded the operating system, giving it a higher level Now that you definitely know what a boot sector write an actual game that fits in just 512 Well, what I have here is a space invaders And the whole thing is on the boot sector. And I want you to watch how quickly this boots Keep in mind it hasn't even finished the And there it is. I want to illustrate this from a different See there, that's the floppy disk light The next time you see that light, that means the game starts after you see the light. Its super fast, not only because there is the drive's head doesn't even have to Literally, all it takes is a single revolution system RAM. Of course, this isn't the best version of Its very clear that many concessions were For example, there is no score board, no UFO exactly the same. Oh, and there are no sound effects or music But still, you can't deny the skill involved So, besides space invaders, what other games This is another one. It's called F-Bird, and if it isn't obvious Only, this version runs in text mode, using One interesting thing about this game is that you today that actually has sound effects Here's another one, this is called Pillman. I guess because he eats so many little pills. With all of those ghosts chasing him, I hope Anyway, this one also runs in VGA graphics interesting about it. If you look down in the bottom-left corner It looks like about 20 of them. I suspect what is happening here is that the RAM as variable space for the game. You can actually see specific changes, for Which means, this game may only need a couple It's really blurry trying to zoom into these from DOSBOX. This is reminiscent of the Atari 2600, since Speaking of DOSBOX. Many people may be wondering how I'm booting Well, it's actually quite easy. So, once you have DOSBOX open, you just type the disk image you want to use, in this case I assume that is an amalgamation of the words is its own operating system. So yeah, this is a very playable version of There are other things besides games. For example, this is a functional version This is one of the example programs you can This version of BASIC is very limited, however. It has a very limited command set, and each So you aren't going to be able to make anything Plus, I don't think there is any way to OK, now being realistic for a moment, none not going to want to sit down and play them I suspect the people who wrote the games probably them. And of course, that's the whole point of see, you know, how much you can fit into a And so, I just, I have a great admiration of RAM, but anyway that's actually all I've the next one and thanks for watching!