He's just kind of looking side to side but not really doing anything. If you know there's bad guys out there and you know there's shooting going on, the first thing you're going to do is at least just change direction. Hi, I'm Matt Ziemann. the Air Force's Air University I've been a pilot for 26 years. Today we'll be looking at from movies to determine We actually did get a and, I mean, those are The guys that are loosely depicted in this scene, Welch and Taylor, they were out partying the night before, all-night poker game, and about an hour beforehand. They heard the bombs going off. They were still wearing tuxedo pants. They jumped in a car going getting shot at along the way. True story. So, if you've got a plane chasing another one in level flight, those bullets are going to They're not going to be splashing down on the water right in front of it. Competition aerobatic can kind of do a but a P-40 couldn't do that. If you're on its side flying through basically a canyon of buildings like that, you're going to end up The Japanese did fly extremely low. So I guess there's some realism there, but there were multiple that were either scraping or scraping the tips of their propellers. Welch and Taylor and the other guys that actually did get in dogfights were up at higher altitudes, not flying at treetop level. Danny, I've still got three on my tail. Come on! Come on! Now! So, midairs do happen in air combat when you got a lot of planes But to have that kind of coordination, do a head-on pass and cut so that the Zeros would is quite a bit of fiction. Yeah, so that's one thing pretty often gets wrong, in showing just this unlimited firepower. It's limited to begin with, which is why you fire short bursts. You don't waste your ammunition. Welch and Taylor didn't of their guns when they got airborne. He looks like a kid in an arcade game with both hands on the You don't do that. Your The only time you really is if you're pulling back I give it about a four. Enemy fighters, 11 o'clock. We got company. Using a hand microphone like that, if you're not wearing an oxygen mask that has a microphone in it, It would kind of pick up the And if you think about it, you fly an airplane with your right hand. You're definitely not going to have time in the middle of combat and talk into it and put it back and then take control of the airplane. That's completely unrealistic. We'd call that a snapshot. It's just kind of a quick as bad guys pass in front of you. The SBD Dauntless, it's but actually did pretty good air-to-air. It had about a 3:1 kill ratio, so it actually shot down for every Dauntless that got So, there's two kinds of There's barrage fire, which are flak, which are shells that explode at kind of a predetermined altitude. And then there's kind of the aimed fire, you know, typical machine gun. The flak is those black and those bursts are falling That's not terribly realistic. That would be kind of And then you would have that would be tracking He's releasing later So you'd roll into that near-vertical dive and typically release the to recover around 500 feet. The reason they do dive-bombing is because if you're in a level there's a lot of error that can happen. The steeper your dive is, the more you're basically It minimizes a lot of those errors. Because they're in that vertical dive, you don't want that bomb to be going right through your propeller So they had a little trapeze. When you had released the outside of the diameter to be clear of the aircraft. And he does a decent the g-forces as you pull out from a dive. You're pulling pretty aggressively there. Trying to hide in the clouds, You can't really see in the clouds, so disappear into the cloud, pop out a different side, and hope that the bad Insane for the Zero to just be as he comes out of the cloud, to be right in a shooting The idea to kind of haul is pretty accurate. Some guys would even black out. Call it g-LOC, g-induced But the idea was, hey, if I'm still holding back on the stick, the nose is going up, so I'm at least flying and even if I pass out the blood flow will start But yeah, that defies the laws of physics, to release at about 200 feet there and recover just skimming Whoo! That guy out in the water, He was the only guy to The entire squadron got shot down, but he watched the entire battle of Midway bobbing in the water there but quite a witness to history. So, he's jinking there, which are doing kind of so the gunners can't track you. Easiest way to get killed is and be a predictable target. But you would not fly straight and fly right at the guns. I'd give this about a three and a half. Very accurate. The Brits operated in a what at least early in the war, and the idea was the two guys on the wings just follow the leader, and he focuses on the then everybody can start firing. But for this time period, If anything, they might so they're not just close Check fuel, Fortis 1 and 2. Very accurate for lead The wingmen burn more gas than lead does. So lead's making sure that And the Spitfire didn't hold a lot, just a little bit over So to take off from an and get over to the French coast, you didn't have a whole lot of playtime before you'd have to have to come back. So very accurate consideration there. Keep afield. They'll come out of the sun. That's still a valid tactic today, where, you know, try to because it's really difficult to see. From World War I until now, that is still a dominant tactic, to try and come out of the sun. The only downside out of this one is you're not terribly wave-top level, below 500 feet. Normally these guys are going you know, 10,000 feet, maybe even higher. Spitfire doesn't carry You're pretty limited, so of about two seconds or so. So he's doing a good job there. He's missing the target, though, because he's not leading it. To hit a point in space, you've so that the bullets and the target meet at the same point in time. Bad guys don't always just It's pretty common, you know, if you damage the engine it'll just kind be a gradual descent, as opposed to the airplane just exploding or a wing coming off. So, cool shot. Little unrealistic. Our fearless Spitfire which is not inaccurate the Spitfire carried. And if you're engaged in planes do glide once the engine is out. A Spitfire can go about 2 miles for every 1,000 feet of altitude. And I'd say he's at about 1,000 feet, so he can maybe go 2 miles. So at that altitude, he's got [siren sounding] That's a Stuka dive-bomber, and the Stuka actually had They were air-powered. That makes that very distinctive sound, and they use that for But it's funny how any movie will show just about any kind of will be making that screaming sound. To turn around and engage a Any turns that you make, and you're just going down quicker. So the ability to turn back, shoot a guy, and then turn back down the beach, it's a little bit of a stretch. I mean, the guns work regardless. So theoretically, yes, it is possible to shoot a Famous fighter pilot Robin Olds He forgot to switch fuel tanks, and right when he was the engine quit, but he He took the shot, he and then switched his fuel You'd want to torch the plane so it doesn't fall in enemy hands. The Spitfire was Britain's most advanced fighter at the time, and you never want to let that technology fall into enemy hands so they can either reverse engineer it or figure out how to negate So definitely that was pretty We still do that these days. It just looks like the mounted to the rest of the plane. It ignores this entire that would be filling up that space. So, you were so close. Yeah, I'd say overall I'd about a 7.5. There's a lot that's really good. Love the fact that they &quot;Red Tails&quot; talks about It was an all-African An amazing story. They trained right here in Alabama, and due to segregation at the time, they had to fight really two battles. There was the battle against the Germans, and there was the battle So, the fact that the guy's he knows there's fighters out there and he's just kind of looking side to side but not really doing anything, you're just a sitting duck. The easiest way to be a target So if you know there's bad guys out there and you know there's shooting going on, the first thing you're going to do is at least just change direction so you're not a predictable target. 9 o'clock low. 9 o'clock low! Planes don't do little rolling in behind somebody. These jets ain't nothing. The Mustangs are keeping up with the jets, which is completely unrealistic. Need more speed. Let's get some altitude. Gaining altitude to be able to get more of a energy differential But you wouldn't do it just You're trading in that kinetic energy for that potential energy. So ideally, if you see you're able to maneuver and so you get up above them. I'd give &quot;Red Tails&quot; a three. The only redeeming value of the Red Tails, which is Bombardier to pilot, your ship. Pilot: Roger. So, the bombardier's actually flying the airplane on the bomb run. When he's got control with the the gunsight's basically And so no matter what that will actually steer the aircraft, and the bombardier's got Uh-oh. Zero inbound, 10 o'clock level. When he called, &quot;Zero, 10 o'clock,&quot; That was a accurate clock position. Sometimes in movies they'll like, &quot;Enemy fighters, 3 o'clock,&quot; and they're looking to the left side, but 3 o'clock is off to your right. So, head-on attacks were not uncommon. They would actually fly to get as close to the bomber as possible, and then use gravity to your advantage so you could pull back on the stick and you just dive away. And the Japanese did that as well because they knew that the was the least defended. So, there you see kind Sometimes it's just a matter of hitting a fuel tank on the or maybe even just killing the pilot, where you don't necessarily So, overall this is a I'd say they do a pretty I'd probably give it a nine. You see the brass shell casings that's pretty realistic. A lot of people don't about the bullet coming out of the barrel but not all the brass Ramming the plane, that did happen. If you have a midair that force is just going to be a cloud of pieces and parts. In that clip, the Zero That's complete fiction. If you cut off the tail of the plane, the plane's not going It's just basically going because the tail gives it A few too many airplanes for a Navy fighter squadron at that time. But what they're doing, they're dropping their So, to try and maximize range, you would carry external fuel tanks that you would jettison with the enemy, because but they're going to slow you down. They're extra drag and extra weight. Pretty unrealistic attack run. It's not a dive-bomber. Typically, the kamikazes were For him to pitch up like at the top of the apex, when you pitch over and dive back down, you're pretty slow right there at the peak when you're pitching over and extremely vulnerable Usually for the kamikaze guys, they're going to come in low and they're going to stay fairly low or they're going to start off higher and just have all the extra energy to do that dive to begin with, but not do a pop-up and diving attack. They've got a couple very like the brass shell casings coming out, but everything else, just pretty terrible. I give it about a 1.5. St. Paul's Cathedral there Those high-altitude dogfights that were just swirling that were visible by people of London and the English countryside. It was kind of unique in warfare to watch these dogfights If you take a hit in the engine, oil starts spewing out, that is pretty real. You don't have windshield wipers, so you're just kind of stuck with a black screen in front of you. That's a really good job bailing out of a World War II fighter. You slide the canopy back, That guy's got a line twist. But that was a minor malfunction, and he's kind of bicycle-kicking his legs to try and get kind of a gyroscopic effect to unwind the parachute riser. So that's extremely realistic. One of the greatest was how many airplanes they used. The fact that they used real airplanes, it was one of the greatest They joked that they largest air forces when they did this. This is one of the best ones out there. I give this a solid nine. Go get them, little friends! That's accurate. The bomber guys called the Although the fact that they have P-51s, P-51s weren't in combat They came along a lot later. The Americans operated You still got that mutual support. You'd be in a flight of four aircraft with two elements or two sections, each one with a lead and So that's pretty accurate. So, this we would call where you go head-to-head A head-on shot like that, again, Those fighters are very small, and to try to hit those targets at those closing speeds But when they show them merge and the Mustangs kind of that's pretty good. And they're in a loose enough formation that they can, you know, the wingmen are able to keep sight of lead but also engage the enemy themselves, as opposed to just flying tight formation. Fighters aren't really flying that close. You have to do that just to get both aircraft in the frame. Tail gunner, what's wrong? I'm running out of ammo, cap. I'll take care of it. And this is where it departs from reality. There is no way that the copilot would leave his seat in combat and go take the place of a tail gunner. I got him. I got him! But the fact that you can't control when a plane goes out of control, that it might fly into another aircraft or a bomber like that, stuff like that did happen. So, again, when you in that relatively small I'd probably give it I'd say my favorite World is probably the &quot;Battle of Britain.&quot; They were using real airplanes and telling a pretty accurate story. If you enjoyed this video,