Late May, 1815. Exiled to Elba in 1814, Napoleon had returned Europe, committed to restoring the Old Order, They plan to invade France and restore the The Russian and Austrian are approaching from the east. The Anglo-Dutch army under Wellington is headquartered in Brussels. The Prussian Army under Blucher is headquartered Napoleon is vastly outnumbered. King Louis XVIII has fled France and set up court in Ghent, 60 kilometers west of Brussels. From Ghent, the King's agents and spies The role of Fouche is well known, plotting However, there were many others. The King also has spies and agents in the with Ghent, providing intelligence. Along the frontier, the King has stationed One such officer was the Marquis de Castries, in Namur, whose staff included a former Cuirassier, Napoleon faced a severe shortage of horses, An insurrection was raging in the Vendee Once the allies invaded, his military situation his political situation was unstable. He needed an event to rally the country around Brussels was the answer. A lighting stroke to seize the Belgian capital, captivate the nation. Traitors would be shaken from the army, and necessary to deal with those in government. Napoleon decided to strike. On June 3rd, Napoleon ordered Marshal Soult, of the Army Headquarters and responsible for 4th Corps from Metz to Philippeville. Napoleon also reorganized the Cavalry, taking creating 4 Cavalry Corps under the overall On June 4th, Soult gave a detailed report Corps of Armee du Nord and the time required 1st Corps at Maubeuge, 2-day march leaving 2nd Corps to the right of Maubeuge on the 3rd Corps north of Philippeville, 2-day march 4th Corps at Philippeville, 7- or 8-day march 6th Corps previously indicated to be at Avesnes, Imperial Guard at Avesnes, staggered march Everything was planned so that the army would to be moved into final positions on the 13th anniversary of the victories of Marengo and Napoleon planned to come between the Anglo-Dutch The French army, vastly superior to either as neither could survive a battle on their Napoleon would occupy Brussels by June 16, The King would be chased from the continent, and the traitors purged from his government and army. On June 5, Soult issued the orders to Gerard. They had been adjusted to have 4th Corps arrive The Emperor has ordered me to inform you that Moselle's march, upon receipt of this order, it following the itinerary, attached, to Rocroy month without fail. On June 6, Soult sent orders to the rest of 1st Corps was ordered to be ready to march 2nd Corps was ordered to concentrate near 3rd Corps was ordered to concentrate between 4th Corps was already ordered to Rocroi by 6th Corps was ordered to Avesnes by June 13th. The Guard had already been ordered to Avesnes, also ordered into position. Napoleon had ordered to formation of 2 columns of June 13th to put the army into a final He had positioned the army so that it could or it could cross at Charleroi. Either location would put Napoleon on a major between Wellington and Blucher . On June 7, Napoleon ordered Soult to Lille west of the planned advance. By June 11, Soult was ordered to return to Laon in order to meet Napoleon on June 12. On June 10, Napoleon finalized the concentration. With Soult absent, Bertrand, Grand Marshal of the Palace would be responsible for the Two orders would be written that day. The first positioned the army in a square pointing directly at Mons. The second order written put the army in three It is this second order that Bertrand distributed The plan for Mons exists only as a draft on These orders were sent to Laon, where Soult Did Napoleon change his mind? Or was the order to advance on Mons a carefully Fouche claimed he had an agent steal the Scott confirmed during the occupation of Paris However, Fouche was playing both sides, and plans at the border. If the Allies defeated Napoleon, Fouche would won, he would say he captured a spy. During June, the Allies repeatedly heard rumors Is it possible Napoleon was giving the Allies in order to keep Wellington west of Charleroi? There are a couple facts that support the First, unlike the Charleroi plan, all of the 2nd Corps is to the rear of Maubeuge, 1st to the right, etc. This is unlike any order Napoleon sent in sent to the Generals, is absolutely precise Second, Grouchy had recently been given command 4th Corps had been recently ordered to join Napoleon could hope that the Allies were unaware the Mons plan letter Bertrand addressed to On June 11, Soult, for reasons unknown, remained He was not in Laon when Napoleon's orders the day of June 12 in Avesnes. Considerable time was lost as the courier until it was clear he was not coming. Soult initially began executing the orders to the plan for Mons. Had two orderlies been sent to Laon, but arrived Thus confusing Soult? Or had Soult received the intercepted false Whatever the event, Soult had adopted the Napoleon left Paris on June 12, and arrived He immediately countermanded Soult's orders for an advance on Charleroi. As Soult plainly said to Vandamme: yesterday, you were to gather your Army Corps the execution of the Order of the Day from according to which you were to gather your of Philippeville. It is thus the dispositions of the order given The rest of the army was given similar orders. Due to the delays introduced by Soult not Napoleon would delay the advance until June Vandamme would receive the orders too late, Beaumont, thus overloading the center column. Napoleon used June14 to move the army closer Napoleon heard from his spies that the Allies He had every reason to believe he had achieved Sambre without Wellington or Blucher knowing. At 11:30 pm, Gneisenau, the Prussian Chief French traitors had informed him of the impending The 12+ hours gained allowed the Prussians As the great Prussian historian, Lettow-Vorbeck, Without this treason committed by members by Napoleon would have been successful to an even stronger degree than was the case now. Though delayed, and worried about an advance Wellington to order the concentration of his without fears of immediate destruction. Napoleon's plan was to prevent allied cooperation, working together on June 16, they literally Napoleon believed on June 16 he would push that night with his guard to Brussels. But instead of facing no major battles, the Ney and Wellington met at Quatre Bras and Blucher at Ligny. However, on June 18 the allied armies were joined, and would deal Napoleon a decisive defeat at Waterloo. French traitors had destroyed Napoleon's But the root of this destruction was the delay army to tip off the Prussians. Had Napoleon kept to his original schedule, and occupied the Nivelles-Namur road. Wellington and Blucher would have had their not have been able to coordinate a defense. Napoleon would have occupied Brussels, or had either army chosen to give battle, destroyed it. The delay was caused by Soult remaining in What was the purpose of the Mons orders? Had Napoleon changed his mind, or had a carefully On June 22nd, 1815, Napoleon signed his abdication. It is believed that this took place in the Napoleon's residence during the 100 Days. The Salon d'Argent is in the rear of the If he signed his abdication there, it is possible during 1815. Adjacent to the office is a staircase. Napoleon would be exiled to St. Helena, joined In 1821, after Napoleon's death, Bertrand on August 1st. On August 6, Bertrand and his family traveled Hotel of Leicester Square, along with Montholon During their stay in England, Bertrand and and government officials. On September 15, John Cam Hobhouse visited diary: &quot;at Brunet's Hotel.&quot; &quot;Found him and his Countess, his brother, and &quot;The Countess ill with a cough - a pale, &quot;certain age.&quot; &quot;The Count very solicitous about her health.&quot; &quot;Bertrand drew near to me and spoke frankly &quot;Said the Emperor saw at once that il sortait &quot;to good informants.&quot; &quot;That he, at first, had resolved to answer &quot;he alone has knowledge, having the reins of &quot;that he observed I had altered my opinions &quot;and had seen that they did wrong to suspect &quot;they should be defending their country against &quot;This alluded to a note which Constant furnished &quot;Bertrand told me that the reason why Napoleon &quot;was, first, he took up the employment, and &quot;I did not ask him what he really wrote, but &quot;account of the battle of Waterloo, which Phillips &quot;The other reason was that he could not write &quot;of many men still about the French Court, &quot;I said, "Fouche, for instance?"&quot; &quot;"Yes," said Bertrand, "I myself introduced &quot;who had Fouche's dispatches to the enemy Eight days before the battle of Waterloo, were consumed with preparing the final concentration an agent of Fouche carrying dispatches to the enemy.