Do you feel anxious but you don't know why? we don't even notice, but they build up over to explore seven common reasons why someone might the things that I would explore with a client in you can print off the worksheet that I'm using The link's in the description. And as we go through than four from any one category with a yes, then try the skills and free resources that I'll share wish I could get to know each of you, I am not your just a chance to explore your anxiety. So let's lot? Do you have a hard time relaxing? When you lie good might happen, do you imagine everything that much? Do you overthink and overanalyze situations? mind busy with social media, the news, or other you answered yes to more than four of them, that anxiety. So worry is a habit. It's a mental behavior thoughts of danger which trigger a stress common causes of general anxiety disorder. But if does not work. So what does work instead? In the you can use. Okay. But now let's explore six more two: is it your body? Do you feel tight, tense, stomach or headaches? Do you get sick frequently? sleep? Do you grind your teeth at night? Do you have 30 minutes of physical movement each day? Do you you use drugs, alcohol, or nicotine? Okay. So stress system activation of the fight-or-flight response. directions, the cognitive aspect and the physical exercise, and nutrition can decrease anxiety more has been shown to decrease our risk of anxiety part, which is how to implement them, in my course you can watch. They're linked In the worksheet. Does your calendar feel extra full? Are you busy the next? Do you feel like you can't take breaks, no to people? Do you take on too many commitments? Are you overly stressed about money, work, or other response, and when we have too many things going as a threat. Multitasking, crowded calendars, and responses into thinking that we are going anxiety we have to create a sustainable approach Do you constantly avoid situations or problems? into a lot of detail in my anxiety course. But our to avoid. So let's explore. So here's some forms Do you distract yourself with TV, social media, or get angry a lot? Do you procrastinate? Do you sex, or drugs? Do you isolate yourself or withdraw instead of feeling your emotions? Do you overwork junkie, or do you seek excitement through like mindfulness, breath work, relaxation, positive feelings? Now, if you're confused about the last one, test: if you're using coping skills to try not coping skills to help you get better at having life, that's healthy. Okay. Moving on. Number five: is the test: do you have memories of the past that you scanning for threats? That's hypervigilance. Do you think it's not that bad? Do you come from observing violence, substance abuse, incarceration, simply not getting your physical needs met. Do you people or situations without really knowing why? Do Avoidance is one of the big markers for PTSD. Are you avoid because they remind you of past trauma? nightmares, or intrusive thoughts related to can physically change our brain and our nervous second, triggers and memories of trauma can make us practical skills you can learn to work through it. Now, let's check your thinking patterns to six: we're going to check for perfectionism Do you feel like you're never good enough? Do you guilty or ashamed? Do you have unrealistically not keeping busy or helping others or being other people are constantly judging you? Like do all the time? Okay. That's number six. Number seven: fuels anxiety. And people might not notice they're expect the worst to happen? Do you try not to get visualize every possible bad outcome? If a few ruined? If you failed at something once do you think, &quot;Why try? If I can't do it perfectly, it's not you or that the game is rigged or that success is signs of catastrophizing. Thinking patterns like mind into thinking that we're in danger when we're knowing why. Because when we believe what we think are fueling our anxiety. And you can learn to decrease anxiety. Okay. So those are the seven and they don't know why. I think it's normal for a a few categories, but if you've got like majority to start exploring. In the downloadable worksheet improve in each area. And these are free skills, also download my simple habit tracker and work on feel like you've got the hang of it you can pick you might be asking, &quot;But what if I add a ton of I I I get that. I see that. I sometimes am that, seems either the easiest to work on or the most my stress starts building up, getting back into because it's easy for me. But also it's likely my calendar is too full, when I'm committed to too a more pressing issue. So because that adds so much on. So what's important is that you pick the are going to make a big difference. And it really is how your anxiety built up. It was in tiny is how we're going to replace it, with calm time. In working with my own clients I've seen to help you feel more calm and centered and helpful. And again, links are in the description.