- Formula One has the in the biggest budgets in motor sports. So how the heck do they have tires that just flat out stink? Why does the best car in that are incapable of to Disneyland, and back? What if I told you that there's an elaborate to make Formula One tires that they're engineered to fail. (indistinct) F1 tire is happening in mere minutes who are powerless to So today, we're gonna find out why formula tires only last 50 miles. You into conspiracy theories? Neither flat earth or friends. Let's go. Well, we here at &quot;Donut,&quot; we've had a... Sorry, okay. Good morning, and thanks to Off The Record for sponsoring today's episode. Now, it might come as but we here at &quot;Donut,&quot; we've gotten a ticket Ain't that right, champ? Well, would you believe that each year. That's 112,000 of you each day. And if you pay that fine, you're admitting guilt. And on top of that, you're gonna get insurance increases on top of the fine you just paid. That sounds pretty silly to me. Wow, Lawyer Jerry, who looks awfully like tickling Tony. I didn't know that. So what can we do? Well, you can fight those tickets with the help of Off The Record. (banner flipping) They're gonna connect you with an experienced lawyer who will fight the ticket on your behalf. There's just slight problem here. Well, what if I have oil on my shoe from the annual turducken to slip off the brake and I roll through a stop sign, and then the cop writes Will they cover that? Well, Off The Record fights including speeding tickets, misdemeanors, and even D.U.I charges. What's even better is a 97% success rate, and offers clients a full refund, if they're not able to or keep it off your Wow! How do I fight my turducken conundrum? Just go in the link in the description or head on over to offtherecord.com/donut to get 10% off your first ticket. To understand why formula one we need to know how a tire works and what makes a tire stop working. As the only point of contact between a car and the road, a tire's job is to create brake, and turn. To create grip, a tire's tread needs to be soft enough to squish into and around the tiny peaks and valleys that make up a rough or a racetrack. And that's true for tread and it's true for the tread on an F1 tire. Now, before you go &quot;Hey, Jerry, &quot;F1 tires, they don't have treads, &quot;they're called slicks.&quot; Well, I gotta tell ya, slicks do have tread. Tread is just a layer of rubber that contacts the road surface. And tread is tread, whether it's slick or groovy. Sometimes we use the word tread pattern. That's the grooves molded as well as formula one rain tires, which maintain grip by channeling water out of the tread. So the job of every tire is to make grip. But not all the tires are A minivan on normal all about 0.7 G's of cornering and about 0.8 G's of braking force. Now, how different is a Well, it's capable of six times that; four and a half G's of lateral grip and five G's of braking grip. That's enough G's to bring tears to your eyes. Literally, the amount of force out of your tear ducts. So how's the tread different and an F1 tire? And why does one only lasts 50 miles? A tread on a conventional tire and about a dozen rubber-like with names like styrene-butadiene and halogenated butyl-rubber. Carbon black in extremely is also mixed in to improve the tire strength. And this gives the tire their black color because rubber, if you didn't know, by itself, is white. The tread also includes to prevent deterioration due to oxygen and ozone exposure, further extending the tire's life. Now, tread also includes silica to decrease rolling resistant, increasing fuel economy and reducing wear. So, conventional tire, it can last up to 90,000 miles. And it's the specific chemical makeup or compound of the treads rubber So, by fine tuning that compound, a tire manufacturer can determine how long a tire lasts, how soft it is, and at what temperature Now, the exact formula of pretty hush-hush. But to fine tune their performance, the compound includes and as little as 10% of the natural stuff. This provides increased and more of consistent grip. Now, in F1 tire, they won't have as many antioxidants and anti-oxidants either, because they don't last long enough for oxygen and ozone deterioration to be a concern. F1 tires would probably because reduce rolling I'm saying probably because I don't know the chemical makeup. So your mom, she wants a tire that's comfortable, fuel economical, long-lasting, and provides enough grip to be safe. Now, F1 teams, they only want one thing. And that is the disgusting amount of grip, even if it only lasts for 50 miles. Now, figuring out how to make an F1's tires is currently done by just Now, they've been the of Formula One tires for 10 years, but that can change if they don't satisfy certain requirements dictated by the FIA. The FIA, that's the Federation The shadowy international cabal that runs Formula One. Now, F1 tire contracts by Michelin, Bridgestone and Goodyear. So there's always another company waiting to just slide in and steal all that tire money. There's always another dude who's just waiting in So you gotta watch out. To satisfy those FIA requirements and make sure the tires of an F1 race, Pirelli's tires are under by 150 engineers at their Now, F1 tires are tested at speeds up to 280 miles per, subjected to impact up to 162 miles per, and exposed to track surface temperatures up to 300 degrees Fahrenheit. Now, Formula One cars so each tire is load And every F1 tire is precisely weighed, inspected and X-rayed to look for flaws, unique barcoded for tracking, and 20% of the finished tires are put through destructive testing to ensure they match the All that research and testing means formula one tire development and manufacturing cost They're so protective of their tires, that if one has a blowout in a race, company employees will for any pieces that have been left behind, just so other tire manufacturers on their secret formula. Give me that tire. So if billions are spent why do they wear out so much faster than your mom's minivan tire? Well, an individual tire's by a process called degradation. And, degradation happens two ways. First is tread wear and the second is a term called giving up. For a tire to make the kind it's gotta be really soft so it can really sink into the rough road surface. But that grip creates lots of abrasion, particularly, when the car is turning. And even if you're not doing crazy drifts, your car's tires are slipping sideways just a little whenever they're turning. And at the microscopic level, the rough road surface acts like sandpaper and it's constantly removing from the tire. So the more grip your car has, the harder it can turn, but that also means the more slipping and more abrasion scraping So formula one tires wear much as a consequence of all that comes with it. But F1 tires also start off with a lot less tread. A brand new long lasting as thick as 30 millimeters. And it takes ages to wear that all the way down to the internal structure. A slick Formula One tire's tread can be as little as two or Now, under conditions with those three millimeters leading to a blowout. Which is exactly what happened in this year's British Grand Prix where five teams had blow Now, this doesn't actually And the reason it happened comes down to a few factors. Some of them, due to race strategy, but I'm only gonna talk So first off, the Silverstone Circuit has a lot of high speed corners. Copse Corner, for example, is a long right-hand sweeper taken at over 180 miles per hour, where one tire can be subjected to as much as 2,800 pounds of load. And secondly, F1 tires don't just when the tread gets thinner. This means the drivers couldn't tell how worn the tread was, because they still had grip. And before they knew it, they were all out of It's exactly what happened to race winner, Lewis Hamilton, who crossed the line with one flat tire. But wait, can I hear you &quot;38 laps of Silverstone. &quot;That's 140 miles, &quot;that's way more than 50 miles.&quot; Well, good catch smarty pants. And that's because treadwear for an F1 tire not That's where giving up comes in. That's when the rubber compound hardens, it can't sink into the to produce grip. Now, with most consumer tires, this really isn't an issue because giving up is caused by repeated rapid heating and cooling, and that doesn't happen under unless, you drive like a boss. When your mom gets into her van, the tire is already soft enough to produce grip, even if it's below freezing outside. And while driving, friction between the tire and to heat up to around still well within the temperature range that the tire's compound can create grip. But soft compound tires in Formula One, they don't achieve ideal grip until nearly 200 degrees Fahrenheit. And that grip is maintained only until about 240 degrees F. And a hard compound F1 until about 230, and we'll work up all the way to 285. Now, that's a pretty and it's why Formula One when they're cold. It's also why teams keep when they're not on the car. Now, if that soft F1 it'll start to lose grip and the tread can become too soft, it can't overcome the and it slips too much. And the whole car will start to slide, making it hard to control, which can create a cycle. The too hot tire slips, creating a more friction which creates more slipping and more friction, all the way up to about 300 degrees. That's when the tread starts to liquefy, which reduces the so the tread resolidifies and forms blisters. So this temperature fluctuation and giving up happens when there's been too much heat cycling to maintain the tire's ability to soften. The natural and synthetic molecules that make up a tire, they're just long chains of lots of atoms held by lots of chemical bonds. And heating stretches those molecules, which is how the tire gets softer. When it cools, most of the molecular bonds snap back, but some are permanently That's called plastic deformation. A normal heat cycling, even without overheating, can cause a tire to harden and become less able to create grip over time. And once a tire can't it's said to have given up, like me after my first week of my new year's resolutions. Sometimes I say, &quot;Hey, this year, &quot;I'm not gonna eat any sugar.&quot; And then, two weeks later, &quot;I'm gonna open up a bakery.&quot; F1 tires heat and cool very quickly, and so, they give up very quickly. A Formula One tire that probably hasn't lost all of its tread, it's just probably given up. A tread wear and giving up are part of a tire compound trade-off. When you change the recipe to gain grip, you lose longevity. But with billions of dollars couldn't they be longer lasting while still making There's gotta be something Could it be politics? Nah, you can stick around, I'm about to tell you. It turns out that the extra factor at play foreshadowed earlier on. And unfortunately, it's not The FIA maintains that fast to keep formula one exciting for the fans. And the degradation targets they give to manufacturers like Pirelli, are made publicly available. For any race, hard compound is the And FIA wants medium compound tires that are 1.2 seconds a lap And, soft tires should be than the hard compound. But the FIA also wants a soft compound to exhibit two seconds of the total race distance. So if a race is 50 laps, the soft tire should be by the end of the fifth lap And the same sort of rule applies for medium tires as well. So since FIA (indistinct) to use at least two tire teams have to choose a strategy. For example, they could pit once, starting on medium but or they could pit twice using soft tires, then medium tires, then soft tires again. The FIA says that rapid the potential number of race strategies to create the greatest variety So an F1 tire maker like Pirelli that degrade as precisely as possible to those FIA requirements. And that takes some and that's why specific formulas for each F1 compound In each season, as F1 Pirelli has to race to keep up, revising their recipes to stay within the FIA's demands. Pirelli, they currently make for dry conditions creatively called C1 through C5. Pirelli chose three of for each race, and each team gets the same tire type. Pirelli chooses based on conditions for that event; the type of asphalt, the corner speeds, the past performance of But they also had to make sure that the tires chosen wear out fast enough to keep things exciting. So, for example, because of the severe they brought the three hardest compounds to the British GP: C1, C2, and C3. It's all the blow outs that happened that turned out to be but not because of pitch strategy. Every team but one switch Now, it's not easy choosing and sometimes, formula one uses a track for the first time. So Pirelli isn't sure what to expect. Now, a lot of people blame Pirelli for what happened at Silverstone. But even though they make and choose the tires for each race, it's not really their decision to make the tires that that's mandated by the FIA. The Pirelli along with F1 against the FIA's requirements. They worry that the degree the FIA is demanding, is dangerously high. And there's no reason why a tire that would have just as much grip and lasts way longer than 50 miles. I mean, their tires are that lasts 55 or 60 laps. The tires used in the 24 only after distances equivalent to two formula one races. Now, the official that rapid degradation is for to maximize variety and create drama and spectacle. But these are the world's best drivers, the most advanced cars and the biggest team Does a variety and pitch any better? After all, time in the pits So maybe, it would just be a better show if the FIA just let them race. Where's my Formula One friends at? What do you guys think? Thank you guys so much of &quot;B2B.&quot; Follow me on Instagram, @jeremiahburton, follow us on &quot;Donut,&quot; @donut media. If you wanna see some more that we do here at the new donut shop, hit us up on &quot;Donut Underground.&quot; If you go down there next there's a little thing that says, &quot;join.&quot; Gram and get a discord, you can come and chat with me. Thank you guys so much for watching. Till next week. Bye for now.