Fritz Haber made food from the air. He invented a process that takes nitrogen This revolutionized agriculture and fed billions He became a hero in his native Germany and Yet the man who fed billions also had a hand Fritz Haber developed poison gas which was His work led to the development of the devastating Haber himself was born to a Jewish family of Germany but is now located in Poland and He grew up without his mother, who died weeks Fritz's father, Siegfried was devastated. He threw himself into his business and became Siegfried eventually remarried and had three He doted on his girls but not on Fritz...who wife. After Fritz graduated from an elite school the wee hours of the morning, his dad was breakfast. Fritz's father took his three girls to Fritz's This is how the life of a drunkard begins!". That deeply hurt his son. Fritz wanted out of his father's house. And out of Breslau. He wanted to "break free of the chains that He decided to go to university to study chemistry; at his aunt's house. He studied at several German universities in 1891. Haber also served a year in the military and the reserves, but he likely understood that He later converted to Christianity, possibly German society, where anti-Semitism was rising. Rejection became part of his life. When he applied to join the lab of the esteemed his application was denied, while that of was accepted. No one appeared to recognize his brilliance. He moved from job to job, working at factories Finally, in 1894, at the age of 26, he was of Karlsruhe, now the Karlsruhe Institute and Fuel Technology. The university wasn't renowned at the time, gave him the freedom to pursue his own ideas. When someone asked how he managed to master Haber replied that he "studied every night Sometimes, he'd escape into sanatoriums He worked so hard that his wife, chemist Clara if I didn't bring him to his son every once was a father." (page 63) Clara was also the child of a prosperous merchant. She was also born to a Jewish family and later Because she couldn't obtain good schooling up for it with private tutors. At first, she was only allowed to attend university at the time. When that policy changed, she became the first Yet her career was overshadowed by her husband's; was expected to fulfill the role of the professor's Fritz Haber was working at the university in 1898. Sir William Crookes warned that "England peril of not having enough to eat." He focused his concern on the "bread-eaters race". He predicted that the world would face famine for agricultural fertilizers could be found. Nitrogen is a vital nutrient for plant growth. Scientists relied on limited natural sources manure, bird and bat droppings, or sodium are limited. Nitrogen is abundant in the atmosphere; 78% However, in the way that humans can't drink from the air as a source of nutrition, because for plants to digest. It must be converted into a more useful form. Haber discovered that hydrogen breaks the it to ammonia, or NH3, which is easier for Ammonia is the raw material for common nitrogen-based nutrients for growth, increasing crop yields Haber actually struggled at first to find combined into ammonia. He almost gave up until a rival scientist Walter Nernst said: "It is unfortunate that of equilibrium, compared with what Haber's That really ticked Haber off; he became obsessed Haber tried using extreme heat to encourage work. Even 1000 degrees Celsius only produced a of one percent. Haber found an ally in Germany's largest salary to pay for lab equipment and hire assistants. In March 1909, he achieved a breakthrough Haber used a catalyst, osmium, to accelerate hydrogen. They combined to produce ammonia with a yield Haber had discovered a process akin to turning It would make him fabulously rich; BASF agreed royalties for each kilo of ammonia produced large-scale production of ammonia followed. A chemist and engineer at BASF, Carl Bosch, the production of ammonia. The process of synthesizing ammonia is known Today, an estimated 150 million metric tons transformed into ammonia, and distributed There are long-term environmental concerns Chemicals from these fertilizers can find quality and the surrounding ecosystems. But without the Haber-Bosch process, it's been able to obtain the food and nutrition About half of our planet's seven billion fertilizers. In 1911, two years after his groundbreaking of a prestigious new research institution, Chemistry and Electrochemistry. This photo shows Haber at the opening ceremony, Prussia, who lent his name to the institute. Haber was now a member of the nation's elite. And Germany was a nation that had great ambition. Haber was determined to support his country was horrified that his fellow scientists used Einstein the pacifist put it this way: "Our and civilization generally, could be compared Haber's process for synthesizing ammonia also Synthesized ammonia can be converted into essential components in powerful explosives. Because of Haber's process, Germany could nitrate supplies from South America. But explosives would not be Haber's greatest Haber suggested to German military leaders German High Command was willing to try anything On April 22, 1915, German troops stationed chlorine gas which drifted across the battlefield A British officer described the horror of gray faces and protruding eyeballs, clutching of them dropping in their tracks and lying features distorted in death." Soldiers panicked and abandoned their positions, that the Germans failed to exploit. Several German commanders had actually opposed They thought it was a dishonorable and inhumane each other directly in combat. Yet, Haber didn't consider poison gas any He argued, "...innumerable human lives would in this way." Unfortunately, it did not speed up the war. As gas was heavily dependent on the way the weapon themselves. Haber was promoted to the rank of captain chemical warfare. It clearly went to his head. The first president of Israel quoted him as "I was one of the mightiest men in Germany. I was more than a great army commander, more I was the founder of industries...All doors On April 1, 1915, Haber returned to Berlin That same night, his wife shot herself with Their 12-year-old son Hermann found his dying There's been much speculation about why Decades later, cousin Paul Krassa, wrote: of gas warfare, for which she'd seen the Clara had been miserable for a long time. She struggled with the gender roles expected by the wayside. She detailed her suffering in a letter to her to her husband. "What Fritz has gained during these last of me, fills me with the deepest dissatisfaction." Haber never publicly defended himself against his wife's death. We got a glimpse of his emotional state when Engler, six weeks later: "For a month I doubted that I could keep But now the war, with its dreadful images made me calmer..." A day after Clara took her own life, Haber He then supervised the development of an even Unlike chlorine gas, mustard gas didn't to clothes, causing painful blisters and blinding Haber called it a "fabulous success." By the end of the war, an estimated 90,000 more than a million suffered injuries. Despite Haber's efforts, Germany lost the The effectiveness of gas diminished as the It didn't help that Germany made a major both military and civilian ships without distinguishing the war and tilted the balance of power. After Germany surrendered, Haber worried that He moved with his son, his second wife Charlotte, for a time and even grew a beard as a disguise. However, instead of being prosecuted for war in Chemistry in 1919. The Nobel Prize committee declared his synthesis But the award was controversial because of Two French scientists who had been offered Although he won the Nobel Prize, his legacy Haber failed to realize that his nation would The irony is that his own people, the Jewish The Nazis used Zyklon B to exterminate over World War Two. Scientists at Haber's Institute had developed insect infestations in flour mills and granaries. Then they introduced another version of the powerful without imagining it would ever be Haber's own extended family perished in Anti-semitism grew after the first world war responsible for the country's significant Hitler's Nazi party capitalized on the widespread its rise to power. Despite his contributions to his beloved Germany, of Nazi repression. His conversion to Christianity was irrelevant; He was forced to fire some Jewish scientists and, a few days later, Haber resigned his In his resignation letter to the Prussian lifelong principle: &quot;My tradition requires post, I consider only the professional and without regard for their racial makeup.&quot; "My tradition requires that when choosing only the professional and personal characteristics racial makeup. You cannot expect a man in his sixty-fifth him for the past thirty-nine years of university with which he served his German homeland all Planck appealed directly to Hitler, trying to leave would hurt Germany. Hitler apparently flew into a rage. Nazi policy left no room for exceptions, not more to Germany's might during World War Einstein, who had been traveling when the return to Germany, put it this way in a letter "I can imagine your inner conflicts. It is somewhat like having to abandon a theory It's not the same for me as I never believed Einstein put it more delicately in a letter "It was the tragedy of the German Jew: the Haber tried his entire life to be the perfect Despite his religious conversion, despite of all time, despite his attempt to save his the end, was that he was Jewish. He summed up his feelings in a letter to the "I am bitter as never before, and the feeling As if it could not be any worse, Haber found Hyperinflation after World War One had diminished patents. He also had to financially support his second The global financial crisis of 1929 ate away He desperately searched for a way out of his A former foe actually came to his rescue. British chemist William Pope worked on the and offered Haber a temporary position at By then, Haber's health had worsened. He eventually left England to seek treatment He got as far as Basel when his heart failed. On the night of January 29, 1934, Fritz Haber He was 65 years old. Haber had requested to his son Hermann that "In war and peace, as long as it was granted Hermann refused his father's wishes. He also refused to attend his father's memorial in the country that had rejected him. Scientist Max Planck courageously organized of Haber's death despite intimidation by stay away. Many of the scientists' wives bravely attended. The great industrialist Carl Bosch was also He owed his career to Haber. The Haber-Bosch process led to the stunning merged with other chemical companies to form Farben which the Americans seized after WWII. Although Haber tried to distance himself from in his final days, he seemed to have a change He struck up a friendship with the Zionist state of Israel. Haber lamented to Weizmann: "I was one of of my life I find myself a bankrupt. When I am gone and forgotten your work will of our people." Despite his significant contribution to the Fritz Haber in Germany or anywhere. The only place that bears his name is the The Kaiser Wilhelm Institute was renamed The in 1953. One of the institute's directors said that used as a tool for good and also as a tool Despite the controversy surrounding Fritz a lasting impact on the world If you'd like to develop your own skills a website and app where you can brush up on My viewers really enjoy Brilliant's Scientific and build up the skills for making breakthroughs Brilliant offers interactive courses in a science, data science, and math. Their content is structured in a way where you progress, giving you an edge in your career. I personally use Brilliant to help boost my puzzles. If you ever get stuck, you can view the explanation Brilliant is free to try out for 30 days if brilliant.org/newsthink. And the first 200 people who sign up using subscription, which gives access to their Thanks for watching. I'm Cindy Pom