Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today, we're going to to present and communicate the most important we'll use an AI powered spreadsheet to clean how to transform your data and it'll take care of you simply say what you want and that's what you can share with others or you could even publish it to do all of this. Let's dive in. To get started, the link right up above and I've also included land on this page, click on the button that says you'll land here in the main Bricks interface. Today, we want to make a dashboard, so to do that button that says create new and we have a few let's click on this first one. This now drops place where you might work on a project with tasks. And right here in the center of the might want to use a file. Today, we want to make can see the current file name for this dashboard descriptive. So here I'll highlight that and type I'm going to use this to inform management on we have three different views. You have a chat, or you could also talk to your teammates if you also have a grid view and this is an AI you also have a board view, and this is where If you would like to add additional views to one New and here you could add another grid, a board, some of our sales data here at the Kevin Cookie over here, I'll click into the grid. This now just a standard spreadsheet over on the right-hand you also have this text field where you can take I need to get some data into the spreadsheet. If of the same data. I've included a link in the I'll paste all of my data in. This is sales data but you're welcome to use it for this tutorial Now that I've pasted all of this data in, I'd also I'll click right up here in the corner and that And here, I'll double click in between these we could see it a little bit better. All good started in the grid view, and you'll notice fairly well. It's in a tabular format. Right corresponding data down below. But the data in column A, I have the country and the product their own separate column. If we look over here, calculate that. So, before we can start analyzing or some adjustments to the way this data is we'll use AI. But before we can do that, we need structure the data and it also makes it easier for and then up on top, let's click on this icon that option to turn it into a table. I'll click on that within a table. We're making good progress. Let's I conflate the country and the product and I want I could right click up here and I could insert or function to try to separate these. But let's see if we could use AI to do this. Down and this is where we can interact or prompt simply say make new columns with the country And look at that, that is cool. Right up here, it split the country and the product into two here I have the country and I also have the really easy. Down below, if for whatever reason, I could click on reject, but this looks good, so anymore. So right here, I'll select this column, this column. I also want to add a column with the again, I could insert a column and I could enter let's see if the AI could just do that. Down below with the profit and let's send that through. Now this is currency, so I also want to format that for me. Here, I'll say format revenue that through. Nice, and look at that, there's my cookie company. Like I've always said, the cookie do is I also want to highlight any of our larger management. So down below in this text field, I'll this is basically conditional formatting, but it to work and how to enter all the different text and let's send that through. And look at the profit exceeded 5,000. Again, so easy, data is all now in very good shape. It's all I want to pull together some visuals. Sometimes story behind the data. And here too, we can also So right down below, I'd like to see some by the country and also the product, and I'm bar chart. So down in the text field, I'll that shows profit by country and product. And And right up above, the AI has created a stacked country. So, if I look at this, it appears that the Kevin Cookie Company, followed by the UK and I can see which cookie contributes the most we can see that chocolate chip is the biggest drives most of the profit in all of the different to create a chart, you can also simply manually data, and up on top, let's click on the Bricks click on this. Down below, it asks me for the data on the left-hand side. Right up here, I'll click start building my visual or my chart. Right up on to show profit over time, and a line chart works on Line. And there are a few different types. left-hand side, I see all of my different fields. the table. Here, you see my table with all of column headers, and all of those align with the building the chart. And again, I want to look here I have profit. And then I also have the date and hold on this and then drag it over. And when places. Right up on top, I have the x-axis. And this highlight. Now, this is a line chart, and I dates or the time. So, I'll release the date right field in the x-axis for the date. Now, I want to here in the field list, I'll click on Profit. And here under Value. Or I could place it right here. we now see a chart or a line chart over time. here we have 2023 over on the left-hand side and is not currently sorted correctly. So down below, Let's click on the Date column on this arrow dates. I want to sort it from the oldest on the I'll click on this icon. And then I'll click on order. So now we have December 2023 over on the over on the left-hand side. This line chart is also adjust this view. Up on top under Values, on this, currently it's set to sum. Basically, we could also look at the average or the median, change the way you view your data. This line chart we have 2022 and 2023. Management's mostly just to just look at one year. Down below, let's go click on this dropdown on the date. And right over filter. When I click on this, here we have a I have all these different options for filtering could enter in a date, so let's enter in January we now just have 2023. I'm happy with the way this corner, let's click on this button that says save onto the grid. Currently it has no title or it's give it a better name. Here I'll call it profit it down, and here, I'll simply place it underneath might be wondering when are we actually going to do that in just a second. We've done all the hard some of our visuals. Next, over on the left-hand drops us into the board view. And this is where where we can communicate and present all of that First off, I think it would be good to have this board. So over on the right-hand side, let's we have a few different options, but I like this that and that now inserts it onto the board. Over of those visuals that we made into this dashboard. the grid, and here we see those beautiful visuals in the profit by country and product. Management And here we see the option to send copy to. I'll but we actually already have a board. Right here, now brings it over to this new sales dashboard other visual. So, let's go back to the grid and this and again, just like we did, let's click on the board. And there it's now inserted the profit visual to my dashboard. I also want to show units the grid view. I could build out the view there instead, and what's even easier, here I will go here I see this plus icon. And when I click objects, but I want to insert one more chart. So, side, I can choose where the data for this chart I could also choose the data range. So over here, identifies all of the data within this table. So over on the left-hand side, here, I'll select that into values. And next, let's select the date a view of orders over time. However, once again, and let's sort. And there we can now see units shown over time, typically a line chart works line and that changes the type of chart. This now down below, it's now inserted my new view, but here and let's type in units sold by month. I now but I'd like to organize it now. Right up on most important view for management. So here I'll up the full width of the dashboard. Down below, visual takes. I'll make it a little bit smaller, underneath. Next, we have the profit by month. And want these two to be side by side because as you we also see that affects the profit. So over drag it around on the page. So here I could place over on the right. So here I'll release and now easy to organize all the different visuals on the it to look. Although we've moved these visuals if I make any updates to the data, that'll I could filter the data directly within this view. chip cookies. I can now go back into the grid chocolate chip cookies was actually a lot more. Over on the right-hand side, you'll see how this the board view, here too, this chart has also think this dashboard looks really good now and I'm There are a few different ways that I can do say, in a meeting or maybe on a conference call. launches me into presentation mode. Here I see Here we see the profit by country and product. And escape key to exit. Right up on top, I can also share and I can invite others to work with me on to the grid so we can collaborate on this. Down way anyone can view this but they won't be able to and I can configure the permissions for how others there you go. Now you know how to make an spreadsheet with Bricks. If you have leave a comment down below. Thanks for