Translator: Raquel Rivas Ideas worth spreading. When is an idea worth spreading? Is an idea good by itself? Can inappropriate context ruin an idea? Can a simple idea work within a very motivating context? Here I have a piano. And within music there are ideas. For example, if I play this, (Music) I can see ladies in the audience sighing because it is a wonderful idea. Who doesn't know Beethoven's 'Fur Elise'? Now, this idea needs a context. On the piano, the context The left hand plays this. (Music) Perfect. I have an idea Then, I just have to put them together, So it sounds like this. (Music) Something is wrong. You may notice that this (Music) can't be Beethoven. It is wrong because the melody, the idea, (Music) is in one tone (Music) This happens often in real life too. but the context is in If I take the context and do this. (Music) I change it (Music) and I put it in the same frequency (Music) Then, everything starts to work. But this example is easy, if the idea is as wonderful But imagine that a boy says to me &quot;Hi Fefe&quot; -- they call me Fefe, I don't know why. &quot;Hi Fefe. I want to be a composer this is the idea I have. (Music) And I say, &quot;Yes, yes, very nice.&quot; It reminds me of the story of the father and takes him to a friend and says: &quot;Look, Juan, listen how my son The son plays the violin... And he says: &quot;what do you think &quot;Well, executing him is excessive, (Laughter) But, that wasn't the case. (Applause) Without going that far &quot;If this is your idea... (Music) you'd better do something else, son&quot;. But, if that child was Frederic Chopin, a Polish composer he could have written (Music) And with this very simple idea, he composed a prelude, &quot;Prelude in E Minor&quot; a wonderful piece that is played So we had these two examples. But, what happens if I say I'm going to be a composer, (Note) Ha! (Laughter) I hear laughs. But be careful, because this note, (Note) this idea, can be repeated. (Two notes) Ha! It starts to sound different. I can even change the rhythm -- rhythm is the duration of a note. I can do this. (Notes) If I am Tom Jobim, for example, a Brazilian composer, I can do this. (Music) This is &quot;One-note Samba.&quot; you may have noticed (Laughter) Now, this one-note samba makes the most of - the redundancy is intended - reduced to the expression But, speaking of reducing ideas, there is one example The most interesting example was invented by John Cage, who composed a piece for piano called &quot;4 Minutes 33 Seconds.&quot; And in this case, I'm going to use a score And I'm going to play just a fragment, because, you know, time is... (Laughter) We could keep going, (Applause) There must be, perhaps, but it's less interesting You can listen to it if you want. And, speaking of ideas in music, I'm thinking, to what extent Really our own. And when does an idea There is an aria by Mozart --Don Juan-- it's the story of a man he seduces one woman after another, This aria is &quot;La ci darem la mano&quot; where Don Giovanni sings &quot;come I'll give you my hand, you will accept this, etc.&quot; It sounds like this. (Music) La ci darem la mano, La mi dirai di si: Vedi, non e lontano... 'El Reino del Reves' (Spanish It's very similar to that Now, this example is less clear has this idea been done before? A composer, we could say, found things before they were lost. This is a euphemism for stealing. This composer, (Laughter) let's say he is a popular composer, ran out of inspiration. He didn't show inspiration but in this case he wanted inspiration, and his old vinyl discs. To the youngest among you, back then, we didn't have pendrives And he played this vinyl disc in search (Music) It was broken. It didn't work. and looked for another &quot;Muzio Clementi&quot;, &quot;Sonatina en sol mayor&quot;. Who knows Muzio Clementi? Well, Muzio Clementi He was much less famous He was Beethoven's teacher, And in the third movement of that sonata - the one that the composer he wrote this. (Music) But the composer thought: &quot;I don't like this. &quot;And, what is this button for?&quot; There was a button, three numbers: 33, 45 and 78. (Laughter) It was set in 78. So he thought: &quot;This is wrong. (Music) &quot;No. I don't like this either.&quot; &quot;Let's see what happens in 33.&quot; (Music) I have a hit! (Music) And who, who's going to complain? (Applause) Muzio Clementi died Who is going to remember? Only the idiots and investigate those things. (Laughter) Now, in an unprecedented effort because the sonatina doesn't end there. (Music) It goes on... (Music) This is the next hit. It says: &quot;When I'm feeling happy, All I have to do (Laughter) Done! Now I just have to publish it. And we all get rich. Now, I once heard -- whilst we're on the topic of ideas -- I heard Alejandro Dolina say that the genius was not the guy The genius was the one Because one phone alone (Laughter) In the case of ideas it's the same. Some composers have great ideas. But the really brilliant composers are those who find And that is why one of my favorite composers is undoubtedly Mozart. We were listening to him before - I mean, I quoted him before - in &quot;La ci darem la mano.&quot; He composed a Sonata in C Major a piano sonata that And the idea sounds like this: it begins when we are born (Music) and then we go to kindergarten. (Music) We play with other children with our friends. Then we grow older, we finish school - elementary school - and then, all of a sudden Ahh! When I first met my wife, I asked her - I just met her and, &quot;Do you like music?&quot; She said: &quot;Yes, but never mind, (Laughter) She appears... (Music) All is well. &quot;To have a cup of coffee... There we are, very happy. And this &quot;Do you like me being a musician?&quot; &quot;Yes!&quot; &quot;Do you like me being a bohemian, &quot;Love it&quot; &quot;Sign it!&quot; (Laughter) Because I want to have that because that... (Music) is about to end. &quot;How nice. How about living together? How about getting married?&quot; &quot;OK!&quot; &quot;Let's fix a date.&quot; (Music) And then the marriage begins... Oh! This is Mozart, eh? It's Mozart. (Applause) This is Mozart. (Music) The kids. Work. The house. (Music) And then... (Music) All you want is to go back when you were a child (Music) Ah! There we are -- This is like the beginning. (Music) And now it's like this. (Music) It's not the same... it's alike Now we have gained a few kilos, lost some hair... The other day I was sitting &quot;Dad, you are getting bald.&quot; (Laughter) And I said: &quot;It's true.&quot; because now (Music) But we still enjoy it, right? And you are looking forward to meeting that person (Music) and you feel that you have found her. Ah! But, how was she before? (Music) And now she is... (Music) That's okay, it's close enough. (Laughter) What can you do? I've gained some weight too... (Laughter) &quot;Will we play? Will we go out? (Laughter) &quot;Dr. House isn't that bad&quot; (Laughter) &quot;And Utilisima is so useful, it has recipes and everything! (Laughter) &quot;I like that roast beef with potatoes.&quot; And I will end there. (Applause) And now that we're talking about and since we all trust each other I propose that together, we write a hit. Let's write a song that could sell and then we'll distribute the profits. But, to make a hit we need an idea. An idea could have three notes. There are 7 musical notes, right? C, D, E, F, G, A, B. There are some alterations: flat, Together, let's create an idea Now, over here, give me a note. C, D, E, F, G, A, B? F. F, perfect, F. F. F, what a good idea! People will say, F! F. And you over there? OK. OK. Let's say B. Flat? Sharp? Just B? Flat. B flat. It's getting there, eh? Getting there. Let's see over there, another note? D. Flat? Sharp? D flat. Now. We already have the idea! And in order to make it a hit, to be able to sell it very well, and make a lot of money, we have A &quot;bolero&quot; for example, (Music) Ah! But - sorry, I have to make You know what? If this is a bolero, we need lyrics. Boleros have words. This idea needs words. What word can we use? Let's see. You know what? something that I learned If the idea has three notes If you tell me &quot;TEDxRiodelaPlata&quot; there is no way I could do it. Could you give me a word? What? Give me a word for a bolero? We are creating a hit here. &quot;So you were...&quot; I was playing the piano Give me something to make a hit. Three notes, one word. This is a bolero. &quot;Ambition&quot; That's it: Ambition! Ambition to love you, to have you So, let's do something. (Music) Let's see if we can sing this. Please sing &quot;Ambition&quot; (Singing) Ambition. (Laughter) We have a problem here. Breathe properly, let's do it again. (Singing) Ambition. Again. (Singing) Ambition. Great! I'm going to fill in the gaps but when the theme comes back we'll sing it loudly. Ready? Let's go. We begin with Ambition (Singing) Ambition. Stop, stop, stop. Now go! Right now. (Singing) Ambition. Louder, louder. (Singing) Ambition. And... (Singing) Ambition. And to make it a real hit, because, people will think... We're recording this live, right now, you can digitalize it. So, over here. Let's do a rehearsal of the ovation like this. (Applause) Everyone over there. (Applause) More, more, right at the back! Great! Very good! You'll do that. And you begin to sing, as the applause grows and start clapping. And that's how we finish Let's see how it goes, eh? Everybody sing, okay? When I give the signal, We are recording this, And... three... (Singing) Ambition. (Singing) Ambition. (Singing) Ambition. (Singing) Ambition. (Music) (Ovation)