The most popular type of book to sell on Because they're easy to make. There's no money required and you don't need to be a real author Now, on the surface, well, As you can imagine, out there cutting and pasting If you run a search on Amazon, you'll get over 60,000 results And typically the only thing separating But don't get me wrong here. If you're already selling or perhaps you're just getting started, Instead, to create low content books by doing So what does that even mean? Well, unlike high content, which is, and nonfiction low content, except they require slightly However, or artist to get started, don't need to spend any money making them. To understand this better, here's what Amazon says regarding the differences A low content book has minimal These pages are generally repetitive Common examples include notebooks, similar works. This does not include activity, puzzle Now, the most important thing to remember When you create something that's filled with the exact same page That's considered low content by Amazon, they're trying to discourage new sellers Earlier this year, Amazon released providing free ISBN for low content books. And if you're not aware what those are, basically And while you're technically not required to have one, So first, without an ISBN, you're A free program to more readers outside of Amazon, and also without an ISBN you're listing, inside feature that a lot of shoppers use It helps them make a purchasing decision, and that feature most likely helps So it is very important. Now, if you want to see, outside of Amazon However, just be aware One will cost you $125 or if you buy ten at once This is yet another reason why you should So if you're ready to get started, let's now walk through the three for creating your first medium And we are going So you may have to watch it more than once to help drill down Okay. Step one before anything else, selling books are. To do this, start and for each one, Now it's probably about a 20 for each of these So I'm just going to take one idea now so that you could do it Let's do it. Okay. So from that list, I'm just going to use and enter that into Amazon here. And we're basically trying Trying to find the best selling products. I can see there's 90,000 results So we want to niche down. We want to get this down So I could do a space here You see coloring books for adults, There's a lot of different ways So let's say And I enter that in. And now we're down to 70,000 results. So what we can do We can keep niching down. If I do a space again, I see relaxation is the first one Like seven, eight, nine. Wow. And then you come down to coloring book. So I like relaxation. Let's just try it. I can enter that in now. That's awesome. You know, I can really go down a rabbit And now I see how I can do large print animals spiral Disney easy I'm going to stop right now because this is going to be an hour And let's just go with this here I can look at the listings here And these are books that we can Okay. So we started with just coloring books that I think will be better But if you didn't catch what I just said devastating words any entrepreneur can say I said the word. I think not. I know, but I think it will be better. I'll make it a point to call this out, for your next book idea, that what you're about to get into You don't want to waste your time creating something Or maybe the competition is too high, On Amazon, the best way to verify the level of demand, competition We do this by pulling in the estimated sales reviews on all products within the particular We teach this concept here on our channel Amazon data we can, Now, don't worry, I'm not going to try but I will be using it to teach you the general process Okay, back to our results page here. Under each product with the extension, you can see the estimated number revenue and other things like the date it a really important part of this strategy Now, alternatively, which shows a lot more information which you can see So now if you found a niche how to find out whether or not it's Looking at our list here. We can see the average monthly sales sell on average of 500 books per month, And on Amazon, that's really good. In fact, our indicator of a strong So this definitely passes for high demand. You can also verify that the sales the top ten products, which is something The last thing you want to see hogging up all the sales, Now, what about the level of competition Look at the number of reviews or at Amazon We could check the average which I'd have to say is a bit higher Ideally, this would be under a thousand But also, just keep in mind, There's really not too many categories and are also in high demand. It's just the nature of Amazon each year. But that also doesn't mean It just means just how competitive it actually is. So in this case, what I like to do how many books are selling a lot despite Okay, so how we can do this is head over So like I said, So I come over here to the lowest sales But we typically talk about 300 when selling books, on the minimum side So I think that's still very strong. Now for reviews, this is how we gauge it. Comp attrition. I want to see, like I said, at least 150 monthly sales Someone entered that here in the max. What that's going to tell me is show me despite being new or just not that many reviews and competing So I can enter that in here and click my results down to eight Okay. So what's great is I can now daily sales I love to look at because it tells you So you can see here a lot of or some of them late last year, 16 daily sales, 15, 12, 12. So this is a really good niche Also, what I can do is and click it as well and see So this book, for example, started at 999 and then they dropped their price This is something we'll talk about later. A lower price will always sell more And I can even confirm that by coming over and seeing just how they grew over time. So they started at 171 sales you know, over 300 monthly sales If we just come back to it, you'll see And around that same time, it looks like And if we go to July on the monthly Wow. Yeah. That's when they really spiked from, you know, in the two hundreds So that is the power of low price. And again, we'll get into that later. In fact, what we can do is we can look So the average price for all eight of We're going to talk about this more later, And really, when we price our book, we're going to want to be really close and maybe even a little bit lower So now that we know that this niche passes for both high demand the last step is to see how much royalties So with KDP, it's good to know the two types of royalty rates If your book is priced between 299 and 999, And if your book is priced then you qualify So for most medium content books, you'll As you just saw in the extension. You'll typically sell a lot more books And that's really important because you want to start building up So when you're looking for a particular that the average price now with all three of these indicators you'll want to write these numbers exact same process You can make this into an Excel sheet Or if you're a Jungle Scout user, you can keep track of all of this data a tool that helps you organizing compare And unlike Excel, the data So you only have to do this once. But either way, however you do it, and make sure to do it By the way, if you're getting any value from this video if you hit the like button down below. Okay. Moving on to step two, creating the Oftentimes, this is one of the most especially if you're not an artist. But like I said earlier, you don't need You just need to know a few tricks and be willing to watch a few YouTube And of course, you could always pay someone on Fiverr But I said earlier so I'm going to show you how to create The first thing you need to do is choose The best way of doing are doing by visiting their listings Also, take note of the page count as well. This will be determined roughly Next, head over to this website Now I'll be putting this along with Down in the description once here, and then click calculate dimensions Whether you're on a mac or a PC, and then select either Either one works. You also have a read me file here on how to use this template. So make sure to check that out with either You'll see a lot going on here, just pay attention to the section In this case, and this is the size of document Now, I'm It's a completely free design software and the interior pages. Now, with Canva opened up at the top, then select custom size. Now just make sure this is set two inches those dimensions Okay, so we're in here in Canva now the one thing I like to do in my competitors images so they're covers So I'm going to And basically why I do this is because I'm going to eventually slot mine and even zoom out and say, is mine And it's also good for inspiration. So one thing I like to do is It's a you know, it's a minimalist boho for teens and adults and actually already So we can see it as well It's just super simple. And you can see these graphics right here were probably pulled from Canva At least it looks like it could have been. And I'm going to use that as inspiration And again, I'm not going to really try I'm just going to show you You don't spend a lot more time So what I'm going to do here is because I'm going to go over to the elements here Now, I could actually sort of buy One thing to note here, guys, so I'm just going to come over here And so we just see the free ones. I said, you can do this for free. So I want to show you guys So now I'm looking for a background here. I might even type in boho background. I just want to get a basic image. So I like this or color. So let me go out and spread this and just get that all the way there. And it's kind of coming down It's a similar color. So what I'm going to do now I need to pull in that template that we just downloaded so that we're not hitting certain marks So what we can do is go to upload files and then pull in that template Once that's download, you can pull it So what I'll do is I'll just actually You'll see it fits perfectly. And now basically to get rid of it what we're working on is to the transparency filter So if I drop it down to zero, But like somewhere in this 30 to 40 range, it feels like it works really well so really quick let me bring it to 100 or this pink here these are areas So when they're printing their book, or touching the pink, or won't even allow you upload the book. So you want to make sure And also this orange You don't want to cover that. Okay. So now let's I'm going to bring it back down to that 40 transparency mark and start So what I could do first is let's maybe I can type in this boho to get and I'm going to do this So let me grab some design ideas I like, little like blobs, And the one called the on canvas. When you find something you like, you can see these magic recommendations see all to see So I'm just going to go ahead and just do this really fast, guys. Again, amazing designer or maybe this pink color And so I'll pull that in here, a little bit. And so this is the world's but now I need to add in some text and bring that in here, resize it So go ahead and do that here. I'm just going to actually just call. Right. How boho. Oh gosh, coloring book can't write in place that right in the middle And then obviously it's not looking good. So I need to go to effects here. You can add in a background, Maybe we just want to do, you know, a real so I can just go ahead and do that Now we are doing a dot So I just want to go boho adult And then you'll see if I actually change that you starting to get somewhere, it's showing you the idea here and how to start So again, we want to cover this barcode, did to the cover, to the back of the book So what I can do now is export And on Canva, what you need to do is but the best way of doing that will actually be the best a PDF file that eventually gets thrown And again, guys, this is super simple. Hopefully you're just getting the idea behind creating your book with Canva, We need to do the exact same thing, but So just like the cover that shows us where the margins are I personally love this website created Again, all links in the video description. After entering your email address, you'll see the full list of available Example, the right page template Bleed width of the page Next, head back over to Canvas Homepage Now, just like our example, you want to type in the template So instead of eight and a half by 11, Okay, now that I have this created, just like we did download and it's right here and go ahead and drag that over over just to fit the canvas and wallah. Okay. So now what I need to do that people can fill in and draw because Now what I found on you'll find a lot of graphics And again, go to just the free ones to show you if you see in line or if you double click click the three dots here, you'll see So line up here in the title you'll see the word line And I found that when you use the word you'll find a lot of images like this They just have an outline over it If you're doing a coloring book, you don't want anything like this, where it has some color to it already. Yeah, there are some hacks that you can There are some ways to eliminate color So I just type in the word dog. I could actually get this over here just be an outline. It's a little bit harder. And I just want to show you and a little trick So I'm going to design this a real quick And I'm just going to maybe A popular question and resell them as your own? The answer is yes on canvas. You can. In fact, if you have a premium account, you'll get a ton more graphics Then you can also use. The biggest thing is making it unique. So even if I just do this, But what I could do as well So I have an image here. I'll put it right in the middle there a little bit more rather than having it graphic I will put them over here in the corner, So now we have flowers there another flower, maybe a different flower and just trying to make this unique. But either way you can use these Canva designs in your book And so I like it like that. You know, I could just keep adding more, maybe some mushrooms down here Maybe you could add so they can fill in the design You can just look for that as well. And I could also type in a line Art Boho that match are that our brand you know anything would here would work but I could add a snowflake up here So maybe we'll just do another flower So you guys see This is not a threat because if you do, I can't imagine But this is the idea of creating as the key word you use or illustration But again, there are other websites rather than just using canvas Okay. So after you did your first page another page and actually skipping it So this really applies if you're doing And the reason is because after your first page, And as you can imagine, there's probably if you're using markers So I recommend skipping it skipping the page, doing the next design So you want to do this It might take some time, but just know You can do it by yourself. You don't need to hire a designer So this is definitely doable. Might just take a few hours to do and you can always even like go back to your competitors listings here you can actually just click the book You can get an idea of what they're doing. So this book right here, it's super basic. It's just that's a really basic image And you can see other examples here. And they were doing And they just came out this year So you can definitely do If you can't find the, you can always design them yourself, hire if you want something more upscale, but just know that it's possible with what And then once you're done on all your pages again, download and P D.F. print and that's going to be the best Okay, track towards Now that you have both your book cover the next step is to publish it on the KDP Step three After you register and open up just like this, where you can either add Because we're doing a paperback, Okay, now and pretty self-explanatory, the most important sections here being discovered And it all starts Now, real quick, It's The Smart Way to create KDP books, is to use the highest volume keywords ranking for. We teach this exact same strategy the best keywords in your title your book will have a much better chance So to do this, and if you have Douglass, go click for their top keywords. In Jungle Scout, at this competitor's ranking for And as we can see here, this is The word relaxation stands out to me Also, I do see the word teen is showing up So what you can do with this information that you designed in Canva So this is really important. Your title needs to be printed on So this is why which I highly recommend for the title is to go back to Canva But first, I'd recommend and drafting it all out here. Maybe we do something like boho and relaxation for the title We can do something like over 50 and patterns. Now because the subtitle doesn't You don't need to go back to Canva, So that's the most important step although you still have a description too, So again, use your competitors keywords Below that, you also have a section where you can enter up For this, again, but also I'd recommend mixing in These can be either close variations or even keywords Next, underneath keywords. This is where you can select up The best way of doing this is by going back to Amazon Scroll down to the bottom and check You may have to do this you're just looking for the top and they help Simply just click on the link a category tree that lets you know These are the most important steps and really giving you the best chance Now, hopefully you're able and if you're looking for more ways check out this next video of the top Thank you so much for watching this. I'll see you over in the next video. Oh, I can see. Remember, I shouldn't point No, it's that way I said first twice. Okay.