I'm buying it. He loves it! The first thing asked how was today, she got This is the 2350 Supercab. An metre weapon. 400 litre fuel powder coated cabin, built for It's configured to suit your service, the iconic 2400 lineup and it's legacy new 2350. Side by the 2400 in all areas And as part of the testing 2400 owner Ben feel the difference. He's a former commercial fisherman and almost got him in a little bit son said mum we just bought a Charlie we haven't just settled through and I thought better tell her. She was pretty good about it actually. Punching into it we an hour and it's just beautiful predictable. Uh it doesn't a wee bit softer riding than stature a lot wider like you room around your shoulders and a bigger boat but throwing it everything a Stabicraft always does like it does it well. We pulled up you say when you hang your It is nice like there's not going out there you can punch feel just safe as houses, just perfect that I'm buying it out because will be happy to hear that we off our hands it's heading to New Zealand boat show and then visiting our dealer network on testing one out with your local the description below. Coming up packages and optional extras but of our dealership network who previous 2400 Honest feedback the new 2350 it the 2400 was my certainly exceeded that I feel. going good, we went a few big waiting for it to fly but it it landed nice eh. Absolutely dryer the wheel. It's soft riding seven plus metre boat I can't like the new kind of system I think you know this kind of impressions, great riding boat. far has been very impressed It doesn't hit hard, doesn't boat. I think it rides very terms of the the being dry and water. Uh the 2400 definitely a step up. great selling boat for our it was released and I just the same if not better actual utilisation of space is they've they've sort of done improvement. Underfloor storage think the way yeah it's just a have some more on the water three factory packages. fish. The adventure package you need for boating but can be This entry level package makes boat a more realistic option size. The unpainted alloy darker powder coated cabin, fish bin but also includes 400 steering, dual wipers with forward hatch, two-step pump, fish deck lighting, bow underfloor storage, EVA foam elite bolster seats, and plus much more. Next, we have includes all the standards adventure package plus the rear wall to keep you warm and drop down extendable V birth, seating and suspension seats at you'll find the super fish lockable drawer, two leader live bait tank and sliding rear finished in stage 1 belting up profish it has all the included fish but adds upgraded chambers are filled with closed The floor features six million and insulates your the rear upholstered passenger seat boxes birth across the full width of system from fusion, powder handrails and it's finished in extends to the top of the hull there are over 50 optional from different transom folding rear doors, diesel cabin radar mount, bow thruster cages and dual boarding ventilation and we'll have more and features of this boat in to the 2350. Ambassador Rowan Hook got his 2350 Supercab and Rowan and the boat another shakedown. The the the guys on the camera harder than us but we were away just punching into only be coming back in if you to be able to launch off chop even breaking a sweat I've before so this this big boat not punching through the waves landing gently every single hard whack that you tend to get a day that it was let's go see you know I mean a testament to in the car park. Um and you bar. We went over to over the you know we were the only boats was great. So sometimes it pays can go out on those days. I in those conditions with with this boat pre and still feel then I think that's a true boat is in its ride. We had conditions that you would chop in the Foveaux Straight bar can be calm to four metres and never quite does it justice but three metres and we were coming in control and I think that's the time when you surf down a chopping that it's kind of a knuckles are a bit tight on the just in control the whole time instead of feeling it starting to power out of it this thing naturally pop back up you flutter the throttle at all to wanted to drive itself back out that kind of confidence you having driven this boat before 20 knots, 3 and 1/2 metre chop going go out and have it to be with with complete confidence was massively surprised by that. and check out this boat with contact your local dealer if more about this beast, Coming up design team about some more of boat. We see how the public then it's off around the trials.