&quot;Let us therefore brace ourselves to our duty, Empire and its commonwealths last for a thousand finest hour.'&quot; It's Monday, May 13th, 2024, and welcome back examining social, economic, I'm Bill Whalen. I'm a Hoover Distinguished Policy Fellow. I'll be your moderator today, joined by Sitting next to me, the international man explained reason. If you bet Niall be in Congratulations. Of course, Niall Ferguson. Sitting at the other end of the stage is the he may not always cop to it. You may have noticed, by the way, We're coming to you live from the newly minted, on the campus of Stanford University We are without H.R. McMaster today, but The preeminent historian, Hoover Senior You've asked for him, you've begged for him, now you got him. Steve, welcome back to Goodfellas. Thank you so much for the return invitation. I don't get so many of those. I get a lot of first invitations. But substituting for H.R., I don't think we be in any way a substitute for H.R. We hope he gets back as soon as possible. So we're going to do something a We're going to talk about counterfactuals. And what do we mean by counterfactuals? Historical what-ifs. Now, it's easy to get very goofy about this. I remember when I was a very young man, I was in January 1978, it was an episode, And it was &quot;What if Napoleon And there was John Belushi dressed up as Napoleon to the remarkable conclusion after five So we can agree, that's a pretty goofy what-if. But there's a serious side to this, and here in preparing for this show. Quote, &quot;I'd rather start by saying this is one divisions within the historical profession.&quot; Dr. Kotkin, could you translate from the Fergusonian to explain to a like myself, what does Niall mean here when he divisions within the field of history? Yes, well, you'll forgive For those who don't always do their And we'll be talking about this in a moment. All causal explanations are It's very hard to understand how you could against counterfactual explanations. For example, Hitler caused World War II. You could get a room full of historians who caused World War II.&quot; What they're saying is, &quot;No So they're stating a counterfactual. If you then say to them, &quot;Oh, you mean They might object. They might say, &quot;Geez, that's speculation. I don't go there. I stick to the facts. I stick to history.&quot; And then you say, &quot;But are you &quot;Oh yeah, of course I'm in So for reasons that shouldn't happen, it can Part of the problem is what we Miracle counterfactuals are So many people object to miracle But if you stay within the realm of the evidence then all you're doing is arguing about causality completely fair game in all If you say, for example, but sometimes, by the I'll give you one example. Let's ask Niall Ferguson what he What would be his policy? And the objection would be there's no way that of the UK. Actually, the B-52 at Waterloo is more likely. Right, which is why I It would be a miracle though. It would be a miracle, and miracles do happen. You know, just the other day I parted the Actually, it was the fountain, But in any case, if Niall became prime It's a magical thought experiment, but it current policy in the UK. So even miracle counterfactuals but I generally prefer to stick with the evidence-based, plausible counterfactuals, all historians do that by implication, Amen. And I wish I'd invited you to contribute to know one another, and the circle of historians was in fact quite small. So what Steve has shown is that there's a problem. He understands the philosophy of history, he but a really substantial proportion of people And I have been engaged in an on and off debate to accept that there can be legitimate counterfactual questions And the problem is that they don't understand Any statement of a causal Why would you keep it hidden from the audience? But there's another point, which I'm going to add. You killed them all off, though. E.P. Thompson, dead. Richard Evans is alive and well. I saw him the other day. A.J.P. Taylor, dead. They were all... The entire group of the anti-counterfactual But in the British historical profession, came along, equally hostile The now emeritus Regis Professor of Modern an entire book explaining why it was wrong, to ask counterfactual questions, and then Reich in which he could not help Now, there's a second point which is really philosopher of history in the Collingwood, who said the purpose of historical past thought. We're trying to work out what That's really what we're about. And then we're going to juxtapose what they something from this. It's a very profound insight. People, at the time, of any event that you War II, did not know exactly when it would certainly didn't know how it would end. So if we want to understand the thought of we have to understand the things that That's as much a part of historic, I remember being struck by this when I was There on, in a glass case, there's a menu back of the menu their predictions This was in 1941, and that's a wonderful historical document because know the future. They don't know how events will turn out. Nobody knew how World War II would end. They didn't know when it would end. They didn't know who would win. So how can you write the history of the past? How can you understand the experience of human The great problem with most historical It tells you a story that you You never have any doubt. You pick up the book about the Russian Revolution. It's called A People's Tragedy. It's not going to end well, That's literature. Now, I like literature. I'll yield to nobody in my admiration of the We're trying to explain what it And that's the, to me, more powerful and They are very real to contemporaries. And if you just shove them aside and say, happened if there had been no You're missing the openness of historical events. At some point, the future becomes the present there's no such thing as the future. That's singular. There are many futures, and we're all sitting which one we like, which one we And if we lose that, then we lose John? Well, let me ask this. My job is to be every man or simplicio. Every economist. And of course, I come as an economist. We do nothing but cause and effect, and we You disagree, but the job of the social scientist one way or another. In fact, to some extent, economists might it's hard to do. But I want to phrase the question in a One way of seeing the question from a dynamic when is history stable or unstable? I'm using a word from dynamic systems. A stable dynamic system, perturbed, comes An unstable one, perturbed slightly, goes The famous butterfly wing is a good Sometimes yes, sometimes no. I mean, you know, the Hitler question, you if he hadn't done it, the forces of history have done it. And that's an argument that The grand forces of history-- I The grand forces of history are moving, and implementing them. So when is history stable when it is unstable? When are the decisions of particular Or when, if Einstein hadn't invented the theory else would have done it 10 years You got there first, but So when is it stable when it's unstable? When do individual people, their characters, versus when are they just And I just want to echo what Niall said, because your ilk, that one of the jobs of history but to understand the mentality of people the decisions they did, as opposed to one of our job is to look back in history And our understanding of their decisions is were the bad people, they did what they did as you brilliantly said, if you put yourself the contingency and unforecastability of history, people saw them, sometimes they didn't, you made the decisions they made, given what they and effect department of the The fun thing is that in a sense, you're working the sort of great forces of history. I can never quite see these great forces. I think they're imaginary. But from Marx to Tolstoy, I mean an entire era the historical process was deterministic I think one can show that that's not true I'm an economic historian by training and grapple with when we were back in the 1980s was what would the history of the United States have been like without the or the opposite of a miracle counterfactual. It doesn't have a lot of plausibility because weak. So it's quite hard to imagine a world in which Kingdom, but it was a worthwhile exercise of railways were to American industrialization. Nobody says let's industrialize America, well really an individual decision that produces The historians interested, I think, in the the industrialization of the United Sometimes there isn't a big role for human agency. I mean those railroads were getting built. Even if you'd taken out the chief executives of carefully targeted assassinations, So I think this is a false... Because there were Chinese coolies, The structural forces supplied the labor, the hardware, the technology from the Industrial So you couldn't stop it really. And I think that's what we're really trying to do. We're trying to tease out the interaction forces of history. By the way, Tolstoy writes War and Peace And what he says constantly is Napoleon has the movie that we just saw about And Tolstoy says this is a complete delusion. The forces that cause the French to invade all of this has got nothing That's the real point of the novel. And ordinary people's lives are turned I became a historian after reading that book in which he says it's all deterministic. And I remember thinking that can't So we're having an argument that has been between individual decision-making, And I think there is and must be a role for I have nine counterfactuals in front of me. I know you guys want to keep talking about So I thought the answer, because Arden's maybe was if absent the railroad, we would have We would have built more canals and our And it's an interesting speculation, but you because there really isn't anybody forcefully If the UK had not invented the railroad, which going to let us go into it, that was, well, of improbable contingencies And so, but here's the challenge for you. You say if Einstein hadn't invented relativity, it 10 years later. That is a theory about things in reality. In other words, you haven't maybe discovered to discover nature. Then you're analogizing to processes where the universe works, but they're pursuing self-interest or you prefer. And so with human beings, you have what you So for example, you can't change The oceans are in certain places, You can't change commodity prices So if you're a commodity exporting power, who look like Niall but I mean, so there's this full landscape And so your ability to alter the landscape for but it does exist. And we can give examples, as we now will do, of by constraining other possible choices, by in the situation. So that's a different version of We'd like to think that they're responding to rather than trying to seize moments inside to try to turn it. And I'm mostly on the, there are times when alternative histories. I just wanted to give one example The last theoretical thing, and then we get on it, John, it's really important, that the actually behaves with all the Relatively small perturbations, the butterfly But there are these periods perturbations have enormous and disproportionate consequences. And I think the notion that the system is of the great delusions of Marxism. It's deterministic, but in a non-predictable the complex system. We could easily delve into Thank you. All right, gentlemen, first counterfactual. This is for Professor Kotkin. Envision a coordinated access By that, I presume not just Germany What happens? So here we are, World War II. We know the outcome, just like We have information that the actors didn't have. And so we're tempted now to go back and redo that they desired, given what we know. And so the question is, well, could the That's the question. We'll get to the point where winning on the the outcome of the war? Because Germany won on the Eastern Front in war. So what does winning look Remember, you can get all the way to Moscow, We have our French friend, actually So to win the World War II, That's the only way you're going to You need the other side to stop fighting. So when you take their capital, they You can take Moscow, and they can As long as they have the capacity to fight, to fight, which is the leader's commitment to the Germans continually fortified, Soviet morale by being exterminations. So your option is killing Stalin. Even if the Japanese come in and open up a solve your problem that you need to So here we have this episode in 1941, It's October 1941, the Germans are just There's chaos. The regime is beginning to unravel. And Stalin gets credit for staying there, the Revolution Day parade on November 7th, sending those soldiers who on Red Square right to the front immediately, where they had come from. And so yes, but think about that contribution and showing they wouldn't give up the capital. That was Hitler's moment. Because if he lands paratroopers behind the gets victory that way. He doesn't need to capture Moscow. He needs to capture this guy. So that's the counterfactual. But Hitler doesn't understand that. He doesn't have a theory of victory that there problem. He comes to that much later in the war And then they fantasize about assassinating methods. The other thing is Stalin could So for example, the dacha where Stalin lived, was mined because they didn't want to let front was really close to the dacha at this point. So Beria, the head of Stalin's secret police, that this trophy doesn't fall into Hitler's hands. Stalin decides one night he's He's been living in the bunker in the Kremlin, have a bunker in the Kremlin yet. They're building the bunker in the Kremlin. He says he's going to go out to the dacha, idea.&quot; He doesn't know where the mines are. Exactly. So Stalin could have gone to the dacha and to smithereens. So without Hitler having to do anything, How do we know that this is significant? Six days into the war in June, What happens is the Germans take Minsk It's just incredible, and And it's not defended, because the Red Army is because that's where the Germans, using disinformation, say that Their main axis of attack is the central axis. They've got Minsk. Smolensk is next. Moscow is after that. Stalin understands this very well. He calls the defense commissariat, Can you report?&quot; And they say, &quot;No, we've lost contact with Minsk.&quot; So he takes the cronies. It's kind of like a Goodfellas show. He puts them into the Packard. They go. He doesn't have the Packard yet. I'm a little bit ahead of the story. He gets the armored Packard from Roosevelt. Anyway, he puts them into the car. They go to the defense ministry. He has a showdown with the guys, And one of them says to him, &quot;The Germans And so he has this infamous outburst where and we effed it up.&quot; &quot;Abbasralis,&quot; you'll excuse the Russian. &quot;We effed it up.&quot; And then he goes to the Dacha. This is June 27th, 28th, 29th. He goes to the Dacha. He doesn't come back to the Kremlin. What do the other guys do? It's like HR is not here. You bring me in. But what should you have done? What they do is they get up the courage to to the Kremlin. &gt;&gt; And he thinks maybe they've come to arrest him. That's the sweet moment. &gt;&gt; That we get from Mikoyan's memoirs, which a story to check. But Stalin doesn't know why they're there. He's a suspicious guy, so So they begged him to come back instead of We'll take over. Molotov number two will run the war.&quot; They know that they can't run this regime And so they beg him to come back, and he does unit. And so they're proving in June when Minsk didn't understand. So the great counterfactual that you posed, on the eastern side, the Red Army could The Japanese Army did not have Japanese tactics were not as And so the issue really was, the counterfactual, if so, how, either by assassination or And so now we understand, which Hitler didn't how he could have won the war. If you want to add something, then Okay. I'll be quick, because I think this is a good stable and unstable? World War II, of course, for World War II things that could have gone differently. But I like this one, because maybe it isn't. Tokyo is a long way from Moscow, Japan did not even invade and conquer all have to fight. They could have said, okay, see you when you Siberia, buddy. But all they had to do, John, was they had against the Red Army, Stalin could not have Japan to the other end of the Soviet Union. And of course, the Japanese thought about it. And that's the important point. But this was not a miracle. But those divisions never moved. That's another one of those None of those major divisions moved He thought they were going to do it to him anyway. And so he kept those, who defended Moscow who had been conscripted at the last second. It wasn't the crack Siberian troops. They were still in place to defend against. And so the Japanese could not garrison China. That was a crazy idea and they And the idea that they could have marched either because Tokyo is very far from Moscow, to come down on that? No, you're making my point. Had Japan declared war, those divisions, In fact, the war might've ended sooner because more quickly had they been embroiled. They knew very well why they didn't because So the grand forces of World War II and the have been just the same with minor This is a case of no. Yes. Structuralist John Cochrane. No. In this case. So therefore. I think sometimes it's divergent, So here we have to go back to Niall because and the Germans win on the Eastern Front somehow. What then happens to the Is it a John Cochrane story where it doesn't they win on the Eastern Front, that's Or can the British blow this? I don't think the Americans can blow it. I mean, the key point is once the United States determinist, it's easy because the U.S. economy that there's just no contest after the U.S. is in. So Hitler's decision to declare war on the of the great blunders. But it is a blunder. He has a choice. He doesn't need to do it. And there are key choices at each stage It's still hard to imagine a different outcome And if you play, here's where you can If you get a good strategy game, whether it's complex one like the video game Making History, and you make different decisions along the win in almost any conceivable scenario. Except for one way, which I want to ask. This is a good one. Yeah, go for it. War is a means to a political end. I'm sorry, I'm going to get You're good. Hitler never had a when do we stop. He never had a political end short of conquering And unless you have a political end, this It's hopeless. America had a political end, That one works. And we had the means to do it. But the only way for them to win in the end we can say that's enough. We sue for peace. At the risk of taking ours entirely off script, one's talking World War II, is before any of this. It's before Barbarossa. It's before the United States comes It's the Battle of Britain. And it's whether or not the France, they overrun. Britain faces the threat of invasion. And there is, I think, a tremendous power a successful invasion and the defeat of the Churchill. And that, I think, is a counterfactual that much more finely balanced between the two. This is what crossfire looks like, by the way. On the butterfly wings. If you've never fought in war, and I haven't. Here's a mute button. The butterfly wings isn't the decision. The UK bombed a German city, I forget which one. Hitler said, stop bombing the That gave the RAF time to breathe. That strikes me as one of those butterflies. Had he said, screw it, we're There are a number of those decisions, John. The decision not to annihilate the I know you've got to get to your agenda. There are butterfly wing moments. You win if the other side decides to give up. That's the thing. You might not be supposed to win, and the which capacity, but the French capitulated. That's why Hitler won in six weeks there. The French had as good an army, they had a and they capitulated. Their elites threw in the towel on the French only too happy in some cases, not in all cases, Vichy regime. Britain could have capitulated, for Yes. But it could have fought Their descendants are still there, by the only in part, let and lease, There are decisions of not deciding to fight fight, and that's the contingency that I think did show you that if you capitulate, it doesn't and the British showed you the opposite. They were not a match for the German army sea, but not on land, but they didn't capitulate. And so the decision not to capitulate in the not necessarily part of the structural forces would bring in and trump us with the decision- counterfactual history? It's by a clear margin more fun Way more fun. Okay, Bill. Except for poor Bill. So let's stick with World War II, If Churchill had been killed in New York in the war. What you're referring to, Churchill was in Niall, correct me if I'm wrong, he is in I think he's going to have That's correct. He doesn't know where he's going. He's just looking- He's somewhat lost. He's somewhat lost, and he decides to And makes a mistake that all British people He forgets which way- Looks the wrong way. Which side of the road the car's driving on. We don't have this lovely look The UK, the cars go on the And he gets hit, and he suffers, I think, He's very lucky. He gets hit, and he could, And this is a very good We've talked a minute ago about What if Churchill's killed We're killing a lot of people on this show. Well, they killed a lot more, at least Stalin did. So let's remember that in one case, And some listeners might have thought, &quot;Well, or dead, because the dictator's all-powerful.&quot; What's interesting about the Churchill case in a democracy, but he still matters. To go back to what Steve was just Because Churchill is there, and Churchill happened in the course of 1938, '39, But his position in 1938 had He'd been a warmonger, he'd been shunned, but the survival of Western civilization, is that to lead, even after the defeat of 1940, even in which it's completely alone, in which the of the British establishment, including members ready to make, to cut a deal with Hitler. And Churchill overrides them. And that's the turning point of World War II. That's the moment at which things could have prime minister, and let's say Lord Halifax thing, I think the outcome would Why is this interesting to me? Because it's Churchill's leadership of a free the outcome. It's only through Churchill's extraordinary and it was a humiliation, of Dunkirk, that doesn't fold, even when I mean, they continue to go wrong. Singapore falls. Britain doesn't look to be getting anywhere morale holds up. And I think that that is one the argument that the individual really does matter in history. Even A.J.P. Taylor, who didn't like counterfactuals, as history of England that Churchill was the that Taylor, who was no Tory, must So I think when one thinks about the contingencies moment in 1931, it's a banal moment, where Because if he's not there in '38, '39, This is an argument for assassination. I can look over the world today, and I can and certain not-so-good leaders. And if I'm an adversary of the West, I'm going Ferguson is saying. I'm just seeing the Stanford Daily headline Assassination.&quot; When push comes to shove, those people are so I'd better get ahead of history here Well, assassinations are, actually, there's a do have meaningful consequences, and that's are not a bug, but a feature, particularly Thankfully, we've stopped doing that Niall, I want you to skewer the counterargument. This is an invitation to Had Churchill been killed in that car accident, the menace to Hitler. Somebody else would have been in Parliament. They would have, clearly, the minute Chamberlain proved to be a fool, they would So, is the personality and intelligence of someone else have filled in the gap? Well, this is a good way to put the question, Of course, there were people who agreed. You mentioned Halifax. I don't know who he is, other Or Halifax. He was somebody who was an obvious contender clear that Chamberlain had to go. The point that you're right about is that Churchill. He had his own circle of people who hated took his side. But it's hard to think of any of them Read Andrew Roberts's, uh, fellow, fellow see that Churchill was sui generis. There really was nobody like him. Nobody could have written those speeches. And the speeches are amongst the most Everyone should listen to them at least once power of one man's literary ability. Notice also that he was an exceptionally Churchill studied history and saw himself own family, to contemporary situations. There is nobody in his league in his circle. And so in the counterfactual that he's dead they quite plausibly fail. Remember, the arguments for doing a They're very appealing. You've just been routed. You're, unlike in 1914-18, your army has been channel leaving all its equipment behind. They're demoralized so badly so that you have population. The arguments for cutting a deal, which Hitler have a grievance against you people, And if one looks at the attitudes of people Churchills, most of them There are two parts to your question, John. You said how great a historian is. I must say, if he'd known a little more economics, Well, that's another counterfactual. There are two parts to your question. One is, was there another political And the answer is, of course, there were many In other words, the establishment was behind the empire at all costs and many other But that leaves open the possibility that you against that establishment The question that Niall is posing is, were any And so that gives you what Did you need a person at the level of Churchill Or could you have gotten away with someone Leo Emery, for example. Not world historical level, And so there it's very hard to tell what level level was necessary on the Now in the case of Stalin, where you embody people around you are pygmies, you can see But in a democracy where you have a strong different walks of life, okay, they all went all chums. Still true. They're all chums. We understand that. But still, it's a robust size crowd. And so I would be of the opinion that we didn't entrepreneurial space. So without Churchill, it's plausible that But I can't know that, and it's very hard to now, which is why counterfactual history is hard. Let's move across the ocean to another He writes, would a failed American revolution or would we just be Canada? Well, this is one of the chapters in virtual of the chapters, actually, because no contributor the methodology and explores the different Now, I think the key argument here is that half-heartedness, there you are, British America, He looks at various different moments I think the interesting one is, you know, the if Britain wholeheartedly commits to And I think the lesson of the French revolution lasts not very long. But they'd never have to fight a large-scale and then the French come in and sort things So I think it's a really interesting question in a war that's quite protracted? If it had been a really large-scale war, if had wholeheartedly wanted to win it, and there I'm not so sure that the ideals of the The ideals of the French revolution did not and you have no idea, it's like an order of magnitude or more bigger in in terms of the casualties, The American Revolutionary War is small by Yeah. So this is one of those where here you are the largest economy in the world, 25 percent than 100 years now. You're 5 percent of global population, you're or around 50 percent of global military. So this American superpower, for which there's we have now. Let's go back to the 18th century. Instead of 330 million, you've got million. That's the population of the colonies. You have these 13 forlorn colonies on the You don't know where, if anywhere, this is going. The so-called indigenous peoples, the ones they're dominating this continent The maps that show America are false impressions actually controlled. It wasn't until the last third of the 19th So you would not have predicted, had you been there at the time, he doesn't have California yet, he doesn't have forget about railroads--I mean, he's got That becomes this world-historical superpower, Now the piece inside that John is In other words, there's a political project inside The political project is foreseeable at the time. It's the political project, the norms, the will see when he steps into the picture in of the 19th century, in that He's looking at those traits and norms and call values, as well as institutions, He's seeing the liberty picture and he And so in some ways the implausible superpower story is related to the more of what you're looking at. I don't think without French participation in against the Brits. Now, Niall has articulated why the Brits weren't French support of the U.S. is But this leads to the larger story. Okay, suppose the Americans had lost the war. Wouldn't Einstein have come along 10 years some other way anyway? In other words, was there another pathway, fled the U.K. in the first place, why they and Scotland and Wales, why they came there ways the DNA, would the circumstances have dependent entirely or even predominantly on period? That's where you're going in some ways. I ask this because I am, of course, so impressed of history that what they created is just amazing. Washington, as a commander, understood his not lose, something that Lee didn't understand. And clearly in the 19th century, the model was very important. On the other hand, our ideals, what they wanted the enlightenment, the gradual improvement the Glorious Revolution, that was a British thing. Surely, the U.K. would have with its colonies that allowed them much, as they did afterwards. Now, Canada, of course, wouldn't be But this is the point. If one looks at the trajectory of Canada, look longingly across the border In reality, the economic paths that the two And that's because liberty was not something There was already a strong tradition of liberty British Isles and established in their colonies. And so it's a modified version of British Revolution. And I actually don't think that North America are defeated, and it just is a big Canada. I don't think that produces a dramatically After losing the Revolutionary War, the U.K. and dependence to Canada, to Australia, So had they won and we remained colonies, of authority, but Canada was not the Canada. And the great thing is The great thing is that all the opponents all the people who were on their side back the potential on the other side of the Atlantic, so enormous that it's stupid to Even if you win, eventually the center of So I think this is where your structural There are so... This is a demographic story. There are lots of people being produced in the oversupply of people. And this is part of the reason why there's from Britain than from France or Spain. And that's something that doesn't have It's just that the age of marriage falls But like Churchill, I still have to believe mattered. I'm going to get a word in edgewise. Good luck. That's my job. I was invited. I didn't invite myself. So this is a deep point about counterfactuals that Can you actually change just one thing? Because when you change one thing, you're You're changing the consequences. So Niall pointed out that Britain changed policy the revolutionary events. So the Canada that we think was a possible the revolution, might not have Of course, Canada is in the north. So Canada is, again, geography is It's a very successful nation, very high But they just put it in a place that's really that we were able. And, of course, there are other northern countries So it's not impossible. But this idea of counterfactuals where, oh, hold everything else constant and run the good version. We call that the general equilibrium response, We have about five minutes left, so let's And Niall, I'm going to challenge you to In honor of your recent 60th It was a wonderful tribute. We put him on a scale and It was quite fantastic. I went back and I looked at April You were born at the height Beatlemania had just kicked off. They had done the Sullivan Here's a question, my friend. What if Paul McCartney and John Lennon never the Beatles? Is there still the British Invasion, 30 seconds. It's an easy one. The Stones have an even faster track to glory, amazing about this is there are so many young really was only...and they were Sure, you can say Lennon and McCartney were Jagger and Richards. And I think this is one thing that would have taken place. American music, American black music, had music traditions in the British Isles And it was irresistible everywhere. So I don't think you need You have, you're bound to have, pop music. I'll do it. 30 seconds. Anybody want to add to that? I'm on the Beatles versus Stones side of the later someone else would have invented it. Or Newton and Leibniz. I was at the farmer's market on California people who looked like they were already adults for the crowd there, and they said, And nobody said yes. California Avenue, farmer's market, So how consequential in the sweep of history in here, how consequential were the Beatles, time who were influenced and sing There are others. My kids don't sing Beatles songs, they sing know. The answer is I don't know. I definitely don't know. Actually, the amazing thing about our culture young people... I was by a fraternity and they were playing outside. Thanks to the internet, they have way more the 1960s who was not playing jazz. I knew you'd get the techno-optimism By the way, Stanford teaches, I think, Four classes on Taylor Swift and not another balance kids' education. We have five minutes left. One final counterfactual. Are you heading over to the I'm trying to get the Qataris to contribute the... You know what? The great counterfactual is what if you had HR? Let's just think about that for a moment. Oh, boy. He's a better tank driver. Final counterfactual and I apologize for the left. It comes from Niall. What if Trump had won in 2020? No Russian invasion of Ukraine. No October 7th. I like this counterfactual because So at least it has the... We can quote it. We have a source for this, which was Trump golfing buddies that if I'd been president, this is a great line, &quot;I said to Putin, All those lovely domes will be gone.'&quot; Now, we don't know if he ever really said that in the administration who said, &quot;Niall, So I like the idea that there would be a very I think he lost the election I think he would have won without the pandemic. And I don't think this administration has been as Trump was, if only because You did not really know So I think there's a lot of plausibility Shoot me down. I think the big counterfactual of Trump winning policy, though there are plenty, and I guess lose three wars, which is a little bit different, And I won't go on a litany of what's happened have not had fill in all the things that We would not have a resurgent Trump. We would not have the exposure of what the country. And we'd possibly be, of We'd be voting Democrats back in again, but domestic policy issues. And in the interest of time, I won't give not have happened. Well, let's add on to that also in 2020. What if there's no COVID? Do you write DOOM? I probably do. I actually had started work on it before the that a book about the history I don't think he would have published it until still have written it. But I want to hear Professor And a no COVID Trump wins 2020, does it have it does? Remind me who's Trump. Some guy. I deal in big historical questions. But if I may just, you wouldn't have sold hence inflation, I wouldn't be selling copies level. So, you know, it's worked out well for both of us. There were some silver linings in that play. I got to figure out how to monetize much better come on the show again. Fuck. You guys are monetizing. You can't duck the tough political questions. And you can answer in a non-partisan way, Does Putin act differently if That's really the question. Trump wanted to give away what That's the answer to the question. And Putin was waiting for Trump And Trump proved to be disorganized, attention seem like it had a single And Putin was waiting for the That's I think a realistic picture of Who is this guy Trump? Is he crazy? Is he really going to do what And they couldn't never really get But this is the thing about the world. The Russia-Ukraine thing has It's got nothing to do with Biden. It's got nothing to do with ephemeral people. Stalin, maybe. That's right. It doesn't have anything to do with the ephemeral We're now going to have a lame duck second other way. And a lot of people are going to think it's way from their hopes. And then we're going to be on the other side to be an apocalypse, it's It's just going to be American The Ukraine-Russia thing is about much deeper, that predates the American will post-date whatever administration is elected. In our closing moments, this is great because and now we're on to kind of the grand. I had the landscape of structures. Half of our country, no matter what happens this is the end of democracy, And you're saying calm down, the great forces be okay. Or it's not going to be okay. We had four years of Trump. As I recall, it's a very faint recollection, And so we've proven that we're on the other be on the other side of Biden, potentially. We may end up with eight years of that. I don't know what the life expectancy is these But anyway, the point being is There are moments in which agency is decisive. Those moments are fewer than we And there are moments that are not inflection us because we live in the moment. And as Niall started us off, we can't If we could, we would not be on this show. We would work for Goldman Sachs or we would knowing the future instead of doing a show. I'm so sorry we ruined your agenda here, Bill. But I got to say, that was the That was the future I could have It was foreseen. That's a Goodfellas counterfactual, What if we stuck to the script? All right. And a miraculous one at that. Yeah. Very miraculous. Gentlemen, great conversation. John Cochrane's got a meeting to get to. Steve, you've got books to Let's not forget his biography of And if you want to know how The Death of Stalin I watched it last night, actually. He's still writing that. He does die, but it's not as End of the Korean War, though, no? My biography does not end with his death, person in the country, even Okay. Guys, great conversation. Dr. Kotkin, please come back soon. Thank you for the invitation. Deeply appreciate it. And that's it for this episode of Goodfellas. We hope you enjoyed the conversation. We didn't get to lightning round That shouldn't stop you from sending in questions. Go to hoover.org/askgoodfellas and write away to. And yes, you can start pounding the drums. I have him back on the show. I know he loves the attention. We'll have another episode of Goodfellas That's going to be a retrospective, I think, go into our summer schedule very soon, So don't freak out if we're On behalf of my colleagues, Niall Ferguson, hope you enjoyed the conversation. Thanks again for watching. We'll see you soon. If you enjoyed this show and are interested in watch Battlegrounds, also available at hoover.org. [END] [END] [END] [END] [END] [END] [END] [BLANK_AUDIO]