Congratulations on your pregnancy Xiao Xin Aze Thank you for visiting me despite your busy schedule. They should be nice to you. Then look That is the wife of the new billionaire Lin Siyan Shen Jianing is a popular star in the entertainment industry Lin Ze is his uncle A well-known man who dotes on his sister-in-law The youngest Nobel Prize winner in the acting world The cold Lin Xi is only gentle to him 3 years ago, my father was partial to me I gave the wealthy marriage contract that should have belonged to me to my stepsister And I was forced to marry the impoverished Lin Siyan Shen Jianing So what if your mother is your original wife? Dad doesn't love me more Just marry this working dog and live with him for the rest of your life. I also have to help him raise two useless brothers hahaha I didn't expect that the wealthy family would go bankrupt later. My sister was sent to a mental hospital. The poor boy who was looked down upon by everyone But a stunning counterattack Became a new tycoon that everyone fawned over Everyone envies my good fortune. But they will never know What kind of life do I lead in the Lin family? I wish you an unhappy Shen Jianing, go die Shen Miaojiao, what are you doing? Why are you never afraid? Why can you enjoy all the glory and wealth? And I have nothing Korean girl You have a baby in your belly? Next Life Don't meet again Ahhh What's wrong Who should I marry you? Whom you have to marry This red envelope The one pretending to be the head of the three great families in Yunzhou Wedding letter from Gu family This is the marriage contract your grandfather made for you. Cloth Armor But you are a sister I should give the good things to my sister. This green envelope It was sent by the programmer Lin family. I am born again Reborn back to the day when the marriage was chosen Jianing, although Lin Xian has no money now But he is honest and dutiful A handsome man You marry him? You won't suffer any loss Since Liu Yi thinks it's good Then I won't let you marry. Shen Jianing, how do you talk? Don't forget what your mother left behind. I still own the technology company. If you don't marry into the Lin family obediently I can sell her anytime. snort In the previous life, I was threatened with this. This time I won't be led by your nose. I choose Parents Silver Fourth Master I'm going to marry Qiao Qiao You are crazy Mom finally begged your dad Replace Gu's marriage What is the Gu family? Sooner or later, no matter what happens My life I want to marry Lin Siyan In her previous life, she would rather die than marry into a wealthy family. Now he actually chose the penniless Lin Siyan Could it be He also reborn Jiaojiao No fooling around Lin Siyan's father died There's a mean mother left at home There are two younger brothers who are a burden Own He is a programmer with only a few thousand yuan salary. What did you marry? I don't care about that Sister, I still want to give my phone number certainly You are worthy of me I had no interest in Lin Siyan. But seeing that my sister is determined to marry her I'd like to see Is there really something extraordinary about Lin Siyan? Maybe there will be a bright future Okay Jiaojiao Since your sister chose the Lin family Then you can marry into the Gu family peacefully. This is Gu's family He is the head of the Yunzhou family. Gu Jincheng is young and promising. Mom, what do you know? Lin Siyan is determined The marriage certificate from Young Master Shen's family has been delivered. Just saying But the two young ladies of the Shen family didn't seem to have chosen They are vying to marry a programmer What What you say again The two young ladies of the Shen family They are all vying to marry into our family. How is this possible? It's absolutely true. Big Brother Now you only need to consider the eldest and second daughters of the Shen family Who do you want to choose as our sister-in-law? Not Aning You are the eldest daughter of the Shen family. I really want to marry an ordinary poor boy Of course not. But the cloud The state has spread You and Shen Jiaojiao are fighting for a man I really want to marry a poor and ordinary programmer If I didn't fight him like this How can I bite off a piece of his flesh? Let's talk Shen Jianing How can you give me 03? Is this your attitude when asking for help? elder sister The money is my fault. Because we are sisters. Hey, don't get involved. Who is your sister? Who in the whole cloud doesn't know Shen Jiaojiao You are a bastard who cannot see the light of day Aning is the real eldest lady This is the private money I have saved over the years. A total of 1 million As long as you give me the change This 1 million is for you It turns out that my sister's sincerity is only worth 1 million How did I hear Aunt Liu has already handed over her small treasury to you in advance But there are 5 million. Good one 5 million What do you think of our young master? Jianing, don't go too far. No one will send you away. stop Just want money? 6 million yuan received in Alipay Since my sister is so sincere I'll give it to you, sister. Shen Jianing Wait till I become the billionaire wife of Dalang The day you cried and begged me Shen Jiaojiao Since you want to repeat the tragic mistakes of my previous life Don't regret it. This wealthy Gu family is really generous Shen Jianing's outfit is worth at least 10 million Shen Jiajia's outfit probably cost less than 1,000 yuan. The daughter of a mistress is so shabby How can I compare with the daughter of my first wife? My sister heard that Gu Jincheng was in Yunzhou He is notoriously cold and ruthless. Sister, be careful to stay alone in an empty house after you get married Sister, don't worry. I will live the life of a rich lady from now on. Have this energy You might as well think about the fact that you have no dowry. The days ahead Shen Jianing, don't think you are great just because you took 6 million from me There are countless women around Gu Jincheng Sooner or later it will change Become a young man in a mental hospital And I will become the beloved wife of a billionaire The two uncles are here to welcome the bride Father-in-law is here The son-in-law came to welcome the bride How about today? I will officially hand over my two daughters to you. I wish you a happy marriage Grow Old Together Auspicious time for the bride to leave the house This is the police. She looks much better than Lin Siyan Wow, it's worthy of being a Gu family The souvenirs are several thousand yuan each. Shen Jiayi is so lucky Don't mention souvenirs to your neighbors. The cars used for picking up the bride are all battery-powered. It's a joke. A bunch of short-sighted idiots Wait and see Sooner or later, your face will be swollen Jiaojiao I didn't expect that I was penniless. Will you still choose to marry me I swear I will love you well In my previous life, I married Gu Jincheng I didn't expect that he would do it for Bai Yueguang She left me on our wedding night. Make me a laughing stock In this life, you, Shen Jianing, will marry him. I'd like to see How will you be humiliated and laughed at? ah Gu Jingchao Shen Jianing I can give you The identity and glory of the Gu family's wealthy wife But remember Don't trust things that don't belong to you. My Master Not good Miss Lu had a stomach cramp and fainted in her apartment. Slow down You want to stop me Of course not It's just that your assistant's message was a little delayed. If you don't believe me, you can call my mother now. Miss Lu should have been sent to the hospital Hey, how's Ke Yun? I know you stay and take care of him. The nanny said that it was fortunate that the hospital arrived in time. Keyun is fine. But how do you know I've heard it before Gu Shao has a frail and sickly Bai Yueguang. Today you and I are newly married I guess Miss Lu must be in a bad mood. so I had doctors and nurses waiting outside the apartment early. Prevent her from having a bad temper You have to stay with me tonight open How come? The legendary wise and powerful one who does not burn or rejoice still You don't have Shen Jianing Gu Shao It's finally time to show your masculinity I tell you Don't challenge my bottom line I know you don't like me Marrying me was only out of helplessness You gave me the glory of being a rich wife I married your Shen family's loyal and righteous We are fair. As for your love Don't worry, I won't give up. Women Not looking for a man to love Life is happy I'm going to sleep in the guest room. Want to control a man Never blindly obey and please The appropriate contrast will make him feel disappointed. Shen Jiaojiao I'm looking forward to your wedding night. Shen Jianing, I can ignore you But it does not mean You can challenge my bottom line without fear Sleep in the guest room I still don't believe it Don't come here in the middle of the night Brother Xian Can we Not even Lin Siye What's going on? How can I not compare Shen Jianing Am I not sexy enough? I'm not pretty enough impossible impossible But you can't be without makeup Mom, please have some tea Hey, hahaha, good boy Uncle, this is the money for you to change your words. How can I afford 100 yuan? I think back then I didn't just call him mom Jiaojiao, it was Jingchen's fault last night But you drove a car to chase him in the middle of the night The rear-end collision in the city is well known to everyone Wine is the face of our Gu family I can't afford this tea. Xiaoxiao, take it quickly Thank you mom Although few But I don't care about my family. That old witch who only knows how to teach me a lesson Shen Jianing has a mother like Gu Jincheng See how you end up Mom, please have some tea Wang Ma Young Lady This is the 100,000 yuan that your wife prepared for you to change your statement. Come with the ancestral group This kid will dare to bully you in the future Tell mom that I support you. Don't worry, mom. Jincheng, he is very good to me That's good We won't bother you then. husband Let's go Mrs Why am I so nice to young women? I think the young master doesn't like him. Facing the difficulties of a confidante No noise or trouble Proper solution Facing my husband's indifference Be neither humble nor overbearing He also drove away the paparazzi squatting outside the villa in advance To preserve our family's reputation A daughter-in-law like this who is sensible, knows the situation and knows the limits. It's worth watching. Jincheng will lose heart on her sooner or later Don't think you're speaking well for me in front of my mom. I will change my opinion of you Who wants your change? I'm doing this for my 100,000 yuan miser Ah Cheng Pitiful Ah Chen, why didn't you come to the hospital to see me last night? Aunt I was going to see you last night. But the doctor called back yesterday and said Miss Lu's stomach cramps are not a big problem It's just your excessive drinking. We had our wedding banquet last night. There are paparazzi squatting outside the villa This lady must be shown to Jingcheng Did you deliberately cause Jingcheng to get into a scandal? What is more important? You should know Why abuse your body? Ah Cheng, I wasn't like this last night Miss Du has something to say to you. Then I won't bother you anymore. Ha ha ha ha Mom, you don't know The news of Wu Jincheng spread all over Yunzhou. That confidante came to his house on the second day of his wedding He ran after him. No trace so far Be careful at the red door Xue Jiani, do you still dare to come? You should worry about yourself first. Although Siyan loves you But after all, too poor You don't let him resign. mom Don't worry, he will definitely make a comeback. Dad, this is the gift my brother from Xi'an brought you. Yes, Dad. You guys are so polite to bring this kind of wine? Keep it for yourself, brother Jianing. Sister today Probably won't be back. Who said I won't come back? Hey, Jianin is back. Why isn't Jincheng with you? Yeah, he's still busy. I'll come over when I'm done. Hahaha, sister, stop pretending You know your brother-in-law doesn't care about you at all. Otherwise he will let you run alone You don't even dream. Oh, that's too much. He said so Do you want outsiders to laugh at our Shen family? dad How come? The return gifts were all arranged by Jincheng I'll deliver it to you personally when I'm done. Shen Jianing, I'm leaving this to you. If he, Gu Jincheng, is willing to accompany you back home to give gifts Twist the head off Sit as a stool Lord, there are a lot of people outside our house. What's all the fuss about? This great day Married people are everywhere Yes, yes, Mr. Gu Hahaha, look at his squeaking and whining appearance I knew it was definitely not Gu Jincheng who came. dad My sister can't keep her husband. That can't replenish blood. What if this gets out? That would be a disgrace to our Shen family. This disappointed my sister. My mother-in-law likes me very much. Look at this imperial green bracelet passed down from my ancestors. He's on his second day of marriage. He put his hand on mine. And they also gave me 100,000 yuan as compensation for changing my statement. younger sister You are so popular with your mother-in-law I don't know what she gave you. It won't be 100 yuan. Impossible, this bracelet must be fake That old witch wouldn't be so generous. Dare to take it off and wear it Family, you dare to hit me Family This is a joke between sisters How could you hit your sister? Family, do you want to rebel? Dad, Aunt Liu I'm slapping you on behalf of the two elders. This jade bracelet represents one side of the story If he is destroyed outside That means you are disrespecting the Gu family. This will affect the family's fertility. Besides, an elder sister is like a mother. I should teach well too. A sister What are the rules? Shen Jianing, you dare to take advantage of me Can't kill you What are you? Dare you touch my stick? Jincheng How could you possibly come? Later If you want to teach someone a lesson Just let the subordinates do it. We take care of the family It's not for eating white rice I'm sorry My husband is worried. How is it possible? Why is this so different from what I experienced? Gu Jianzhang, you know very well that today is my return day You're still hanging out with this bitch? Don't be shameless Xu Jiajia Know your position Maybe it's my person If you dare to bully me again Don't blame me for being rude to you. Go back to the door I won't go Something must be wrong. Dad, these are the gifts Jincheng prepared for you personally. What about the Donggang project? Best place to see the resort This is Jincheng's filial piety You must accept it. Haha, good, good Jincheng, we are all one family You are so polite. Haha Butler Bring me my treasured bottle of 50-year-old Moutai I'm going to have a drink with Jingcheng today. Jianing, you are now the young lady of the Gu family. In the future, when you go out, you must speak and act properly. You know, I want to give Jing Peng face? Do whatever you love Even if God gives Boss Dong a chance, I can afford it. My husband is so good to me. It's just that I don't fight for it I can't even run the tech company my mom left me. It was taken back by my father. Dad has seen it, right? The two of them acted together It's the technology company that was deceived. I heard that my wife was bullied at home. I don't believe it yet You really opened my eyes today This is your lesson as a sister. Jiaojiao, apologize to your sister quickly Dad, forget it. I'm used to it. I am careful passengers I can't bear to see my wife being wronged here. I'll go back to this house in the future. Hey hey hey Blame me for not teaching my daughter well Spoiled Jiaojiao Jiaojiao, apologize quickly Go Go Go My husband Jiaojiao also cares about the company Impulsive Don't be angry Police Aunt Jianing apologizes to you on behalf of Jiaojiao Useful words to apologize What else does my wife want me to do? Don't say anything. It is like this Jiamin, Dad always thought you were still young. I'm afraid you'll be cheated by bad people. So I will manage it on your behalf Now you have the police. I feel relieved. Start Today This company is still under your management Mom, why did you agree to give me the company? Shut up You're a worthless thing. Are you qualified to manage the company? Jiaojiao What identity did I use? Trick Gu Jingqiu into accompanying you home Why should I accompany you to give gifts? You're dead. Why are you going crazy? Brother Shan Why do you treat me like this? You shouldn't be like this Get out of the way What can you do for me? An Ning is my wife Whether it is right or wrong Don't let her suffer any injustice. Why Why are you helping her? You should stick with me no matter what. Gu Shao Jianing Jiaojiao didn't get a good rest last night Poor condition I apologize to you on her behalf. Sorry, I'm in charge of your people. If you dare to bully me again next time Let our Lin family disappear completely Hey, don't, don't, don't Misunderstanding Misunderstanding Jincheng, we are a family No overnight hatred Come come come This is the New Zealand King Salmon I prepared specially for you It tastes very good. Little Joe I'm doing this for your own good. What if I anger Chief Gu and Lian Lian's father? I know you can't bear to be violent I'll take you. Didn't Dad tell you that Brother Xian likes to eat Australian lobster? Why aren't you prepared? How expensive is Aolong? Can't you two just have a couple of bites? Come come come Another bite Isn't Gu Jincheng relying on the Gu family? What a great fairy brother The story has always wanted to conquer x Chip Technology If you can make a breakthrough in this project Then you will be the world's number one How can x chip be so easy? What's more, I'm still working for others. I have borrowed some money from my mother. Enough to be your start-up capital to quit your job and start your own business. You just need to focus on research Leave the rest to me Do you want to be looked down upon by others for your whole life? You have to believe that you can succeed. On this project How many of the world's top companies have planted big roots? Just you, a small programmer You should just do your 996 work well. Don't daydream Mom, how can you say that to Brother Siyuan? Father-in-law, I added it before Meng Luo I have been trying it abroad Professor Droman specializes in the field of chips The x chip is the biggest challenge of this project But I believe that as long as Professor Droman is Will definitely break through I'm willing to do my best Ask him to come out A few pointers As far as I know Professor Drewman. Retreat for many years Weird temper How many people are willing to pay tens of millions of dollars? Ask him to come out He didn't even see his face You want to invite him out? Not that easy Of course it's not easy Especially for those who give up their dreams easily The professor despised it too late What do you mean? No meaning Just a little curious Since my brother-in-law is Professor Druman's disciple How did it end up like this, making only a few thousand dollars a month? Being a low-level programmer I'm in trouble because of my family's decline So I don't have money to continue my studies. I gave up my postgraduate studies. Choose to return home to earn money Satellite upgrade Yeah Then why did I hear that my brother-in-law was born before his family fell into poverty? I had a big fight with Professor Drewman. Parting ways He doesn't think scientific research is hard and boring. It's not easy to go back home. Nonsense I have a good relationship with Professor Druman. It's just a disagreement in academics. oh It seems that I misunderstood my brother-in-law Shen Jianing. Siyan's brother is just running around for a living So I gave up my dream temporarily. Why doubt him? I don't doubt him. I'm testifying for my brother-in-law. After all, Professor Drewman is so hard to hire. Not everyone can invite cut What is Professor Drewman? Who does he think he is? The rack is so big Brother Xian, even if you don't rely on anyone You will definitely succeed OK Then I would like to congratulate my sister in advance on becoming the president's wife. Don't forget to invite my husband and me to the wedding banquet. I will definitely throw my complex in your face If I hadn't I knelt in the rain for three days and three nights Ask for Professor Druman's forgiveness on behalf of Lin Siyan Where did he get all that glory? It's a pity that you can never do these things, Shen Jiaojiao Shen Jiaojiao Can you please stop talking nonsense outside? What did I say wrong? Isn't that Drewman just good at some crappy research? Why are you putting on so much airs? You will be a billionaire president in the future. How can he give you advice? What billionaire president? What do you know? Drewman He is the first Nobel Prize winner in the field of ascension. The presidents of seven countries have personally received him. You are speaking rudely so that others can hear you. You've lost all my face. My husband is wrong. I won't talk nonsense anymore. No, no, I'm not good. Sorry I I lost control of my temper Thank you Jiaojiao It's nice to have you by my side I will definitely try my best to invite Professor Drenman You won't be disappointed I never heard of him asking for anything in my previous life. Professor Drewman is here to give us some advice Did I also conquer the x-chip technology on my own? What went wrong? Gu Jincheng, your acting is good today. Really long face When you need me, just call me husband If you don't need it, just call Gu Jincheng Shen Jianing, you change your face so quickly You can apply for the Guinness World Record. Don't be so stingy. Aren't I praising you? I have helped you get your technology company back. Now is the time to talk about what I want. How did you know about Professor Druman? How can you be sure that I will come back to you? What are you doing? Why are you so nervous? I'm not here to catch you cheating. I'm here to give Miss Lu some supplements. Li Jianing, what on earth are you playing? My husband, your attitude is really sad. Is it ok? Then I'll discuss business with you. I heard Gu Group has always wanted to conquer x chip technology I have a way to invite Professor Druman to come out. I don't know if you are interested. Shen Jianing, your information is really good. After all, we are now in the same boat Loss for all Isn't it? husband I just want to tell you Maybe we can Win-win cooperation Tomorrow's return party Remember to come with your sincerity Goodbye Miss Lu Wish you two a pleasant meal Say it How can you be sure that I will accompany you back home? Professor Drewman is an authority in the chip industry As far as I know You have invited him hundreds of times this year. So you won't let go Any chance of success Even if you think I'm lying to you You'd be willing to take a gamble You put a lot of effort into investigating me. But I'm more curious about You seem more certain Lin Siyan will not succeed in conquering x chip technology Lin Siyan There is some wisdom in caring But she lacks perseverance Like to take shortcuts Someone needs to supervise her. And help her manage the whole family It is difficult to mature You seem to know your brother-in-law very well. Between you and Lin Siyan Did you know My sister was pestering him to marry her. I'll investigate him thoroughly. Besides, he is a rich young man anyway. In case one day I can make a comeback Will definitely become your rival How could I let him steal my husband's limelight? Um But you didn't look like this at that time. If Shen Jiejiao hadn't given you the 6 million You won't marry me so easily. There must be something going on between you and Lin Siyan. Are you jealous? Shen Jianing You think too highly of yourself. Better not As long as you are outside Playing the role of a good husband who dotes on his wife I promise that within three years Gu Group Will become the leader of the entire domestic and international science and technology community Shen Jianing You have a fever Professor Drouin's mother is Chinese When I married abroad, I was not welcomed by my husband's family. One year after giving birth She was kicked out of the house by her husband's family No news from now on These years The professor has been investigating his mother's whereabouts If we can help him find He will definitely cooperate with us. How did you know this? I naturally have my own channels Investigate Professor Druman's mother immediately. right The more detailed the better The tech company my mother left behind There are 20 to 30 cutting-edge technology patents If these technologies can Combined with the resources of Gu Group There will probably be unexpected breakthroughs. Your mother's company Why do you want me to take care of it? In the previous life, in order to raise research funds for Lin Siyan Sold the company to Gu Group As a result, after Gu's bankruptcy This company It was the only asset that was not dragged down. Saved Gu Jincheng's life Then this time The employees of this company have all followed my mother for many years. Old partner I believe you can take them further. Tomorrow is Miss Qiao's birthday party Many partners came to participate Dress up With me What did you say Ah Cheng not only accompanied Shen Jianing back home And took him to the banquet. Yes, Ms. Luo I should be the only one in this heart What kind of drug did that vixen give him? Ms. Hu Miss Shen is his wife after all. In order to protect the reputation of the Gu family, the young master You also have to do some superficial work snort Waiting to do Sooner or later, I will practice honestly and honestly. What's going on? I didn't go wrong Jianing Mom almost forgot to tell you Our house is about to undergo a comprehensive renovation. What about the furniture in the guest room? They've all moved temporarily. You and Jingchen should stay in the master bedroom first. Um, that Actually, I can sleep in the study room. Hey Jianing! The study room should also be finely decorated Mom knows Are you still thinking about Jingchen's previous visit to Lu Keyun? Don't go home angry Really? I was also deceived by that liar girl. Don't take it to heart. It's too late Go take a rest now. What a great figure Isn't it just a look? You're stingy. Queen of the Shen Family Do you know shame? Who let you into my room? Legal couple. You belong to me now. I'll take a look. What's wrong? Do you think I wanted to come? If you hadn't gone back to the villa to sleep a few days ago My mother-in-law discovered the secret of us sleeping in separate rooms She has now emptied the entire villa of furniture There is only one bed in the whole villa My mother would never do such a boring thing I think you have been coveting me for a long time. Just want to sleep in bed with me You are too narcissistic. Shen Jianing Stop pretending Don't think I don't know what's on your mind. I tell you You can't succeed What did I succeed in? It's you who has ulterior motives and wants to seduce me, okay? I can't be fooled good Let's see which of us is more calm. Don't worry I have always been confident in my self-control. But don't think of taking advantage of me while I'm asleep Child abuse is illegal I'm not stupid ah You said I have small breasts Go away, your confidante misses you. 321 Really not seen What if there's something urgent? You're not afraid that I'll hear something I shouldn't hear Go complain to your mother-in-law. Lu Keyun and I are both innocent. There's nothing shameful. If you want to listen I'll let you listen enough Hello Young Master Miss Lu just had a heart attack and fainted He's in the hospital now. What What did I say? Your Miss Lu can't live without you What are you standing there for? Go now advanced Hey, are you kidding? You go quickly Turn off the light for me Um Oh, this bed is still comfortable. Hehehe, I haven't had a good night's sleep for a long time. oops I used to accompany Lin Siyuan day and night to do scientific research. There is no time to eat or sleep. Now I can finally sleep peacefully. Why am I losing sleep again? Siyan Siyan Let's check the data again. Why Come Come I don't know what Shen Jiaojiao's personality is like. Can you hold on till dawn? Hahahaha I need a quiet working environment If you want to laugh, can you go somewhere else to laugh? Sorry, I don't care. Um Honey, I'm so sleepy. I'll take a nap first. come on Get some sleep Mr. Chen Shen Jiaojiao, ah Shen Jiaojiao Look what time it is. Why don't you get up to wash clothes and cook? Still sleeping here Mom, I was so sleepy last night while accompanying my third brother to work Oh, I need you to accompany me. Thank God it affected him. After dinner, go Don't interfere with my big things. You want me to deliver food? Hey, I deliver food. cut You ruined my son's good job. Now I do research all day long. Not a penny earned Look, there are so many mouths to feed at home. If you don't go, who will? They both have hands and feet. Why do I need to earn money to support myself? His elder sister-in-law is like a mother, do you understand? This is your duty. Then go ahead and stop talking nonsense Don't you just want money? My mother has Hey Mom Lend me some more money I'm fine. Can't always touch her hands Oh, I know. Mom, I really need it this time. Please transfer 2 million to me first. Okay, okay, I'll pass it on to you. What to give? Is it easy for me to make some money? A daughter who is married off is like water spilled Let her figure it out Why You see, even your biological parents are no longer reliable. Who else can you count on? Go now Be patient As long as Mr. Lin Si can make a comeback I can be proud of it. Let me come to the party He didn't show up That's too much, Gong Jingcheng Sorry, I'll be a little late. Just take a stroll first. Miss Gu Shaolu is in a very stable mood She needs a spiritual retreat. No need to observe What do you mean you stay and take care of her? If you need anything, please feel free to contact Han Qing Good Master I have something else to do, so I'll leave first. Have a good rest Don't go, Cheng I'm alone here, thinking about random things Would you please stay with me? I have a lot of important work to do. Are you trying to make things difficult on purpose? I don't have Ah Cheng I'm just a road You saved my life. I should take care But this does not mean You can interfere in my life at will. I am a woman's woman Don't do this holiday thing I've heard that Gu Shaofu The reputation of &quot;a beauty that makes fish sink to the bottom of their chest and geese fall to the ground&quot; is really well-deserved. Mr. Gu is so lucky You've been to prison Uh, sorry. I'm going to answer a phone call. All right, all right, please do as you please. Mom, it's your birthday party today I put a lot of effort into it. Only then did we invite Mr. Gu and his wife back You can't neglect them. Don't worry, I know what to do. Hmm, why hasn't the cake I ordered arrived yet? Is this the takeaway you ordered? Why is it so slow? Delayed my daughter's birthday party Can you bear this responsibility? Isn't this late? Hey, what's your attitude? Apologize to my mom Your mother made things difficult for me first Why should I apologize? It's the opposite of heaven Dare to talk back Tell you Don't think you can bully people just because you are rich and powerful. Shen Jiaojiao is not someone you can easily mess with. How dare you hit me? Do you know who I am? Yo, now the delivery men are so arrogant, Jianing knew You ordered takeout just to make fun of me, right? Is your brain okay? Shen Jiaojiao, how do I know you're delivering food? You shouldn't be with your brother Siyan now. Are you studying chips at home? How did it come to this? Sister, if you need money, tell me. Can I give it to you? Stop bragging. I'm only delivering food temporarily. He wants to marry Lin Siyan In the end, I came out to deliver food. I really don't know what to think I heard she's an illegitimate daughter. You must have bullied Madam Gu before. Otherwise, the Shen family would not ignore her. What do you know? Tell you Please respect me. Otherwise, my husband would have become the richest man in Yunzhou. You guys run my lap Who in the crazy Yunzhou doesn't know the strength of Gu Shao? How dare you speak so shamelessly in front of Madam Gu? Really don't know how high the sky is A fool like you dreams of becoming a dragon girl I'm afraid you haven't waited for your husband to become the richest man I'll just starve to death. Hahahahahahaha Ren Jiaojiao, does this feel familiar? The sufferings you are going through now Not even 1/10,000 of my last life Let me go Let me go Um Delicious Do you want to take a bite? Shen Jianing I told you to kneel down first. Lick my shoes clean How about letting you go? Shen Jiaojiao, you will be punished. My husband is the richest man in Minnesota Who dares to touch my hair? Who dares Who dares You Mostly ants Let me decide Haha, try it and see if it tastes good. Ha ha ha ha Blame you Whose woman Just give me some justice Are you okay? You came just in time to save the beauty. I'm sorry I'm late. My wife I can't bear to touch it Who gave you the courage? Dare to let my wife suffer In broad daylight Bright and clear world How dare you disrespect Madam Gu? Someone, hold him down for me. Look, who dares to touch me? Shen Jianing, you dare let them touch me Mom won't let you go. Shen Jiaojiao, you have to recognize one fact Now the Gu family has the final say in the entire Yunzhou Dad will not commit a crime for a poor boy. Nurses are not to blame Ahhhh It's your little sister. I'm kindly reminding you How can you push me husband My ankle hurts. People don't want to see you. Gu Qichao, are you blind? Didn't touch him. Ah, I think you are blind. Dare to be at my birthday party Speak rudely to Madam Gu Shao Who doesn't know that Mr. Gu dotes on his wife? Do you want my Qiao family to be saved by Zhu Zhuyun? Make him apologize Until Madam Gu forgives you Who dares to touch me? Let go of my regrets Little beautiful woman vicious woman I will let you go Evil world evil demon Shen Jiaojiao, this is my second lesson for you. Let me go or I will regret it. Husband, ahhh Why did you come just now? I was beaten to death haha You lightly regenerate They just rely on others' power If you have the guts, get out of here, Shen Jianing Why Wasn't Shen Jiaojiao's lesson enough? How dare you teach that lady a lesson? My wife was bullied here. I always have to ask for an explanation for her. Miss Qiao We have bullying she Of course not Tell lies with open eyes I'm like this Did I hit it myself? Are you sick? I'm just teaching you some Just the most basic social etiquette Oh, my brother-in-law is here. You came just in time Take Jiaojiao away quickly. If she keeps making trouble like this I'm afraid you won't be able to face people from now on. Qiao Qiao is your sister after all. Treat her like this Aren't you afraid of people gossiping about you? Am I cruel? My wife is gentle and kind I'm doing this for his own good. My sister needs to change her temper. Otherwise, when my brother-in-law becomes successful, How can he gain a foothold in high society? Madam Shen, please don't be so arrogant Guo Jincheng, you will go bankrupt sooner or later I'll see if you can still be so shameless and show off your power by then. husband Will you go bankrupt? forever Hahahaha did you see that? Mr. Gu has the confidence to protect his wife. What about you? What do you have? Everyone My wife is young and ignorant. Sorry for causing trouble to you all. What did you say? Shouldn't you protect me? You were not like this with Shen's mother before. What nonsense? Look at him, this weak, incompetent, poor, rustic guy. Shen Jiaojiao thought she had found a treasure An illegitimate daughter An illegitimate daughter It's always something that can't be put on the table Obviously before he got married No intersection with Lin Siyan But why I always feel like there's an indescribable connection between them. Why are you speaking low? Can you be more mature? Don't cause me trouble all the time. You don't care about me at all Jiaojiao, I listen Until you earn money to support my family One person goes to deliver food I came here as soon as possible. My wife has worked hard. That's pretty good. By the way, didn't you go to ask Professor Drewman? How about he agree to cooperate with you? Forget about that old guy who's only seeking fame. The lion opened his mouth I'm asking for a huge amount of research money. Professor, I came this time I want to invite you to Yunzhou to study x chip together I swear I won't give up this time. Please give me another chance. Lian Ke Ya is not a 2 series He needs more than just Zijian and the team. What is needed more is temperament The spirit of one line It's a pity that you don't have any at this time Professor, I admit that I have made mistakes before. But I'm really ready this time As long as you are willing to fight alongside me I can give you as much money as you want. You think I need money, fame Go away. I don't need a collaborator like you. Don't you think I have nothing now? Just wait and see I will slap you in the face in the future It's okay Brother Shiyan You are so smart and talented. Even without relying on anyone You will succeed That's right He doesn't care about his face It's all my fault for not showing him any mercy Just Jiaojiao You've almost used up the several million you lent me last time. I don't mind. My mother still has a lot of private money As long as I open my mouth She will definitely lend it to me. Jiaojiao, you are by my side I feel like I'm close to success. As long as I can become the wife of a big boss that everyone pays attention to What is this money? Shen Jianing, just wait. I will definitely step on you I'm so tired. I hate these boring banquets. These are just some hypocritical people saying these useless words every time I remember the Shen family didn't seem to let you participate. You have participated in many I almost let it slip again. My dad would occasionally take me to some business banquets I'm going to wash up you You don't want to ask What happened between me and Lu Keyun last night? Mom, you're asleep. how Jealous I don't even feel jealous when I eat dumplings. Only eat soy sauce Not jealous Could you be quiet? Shen Jianing, can't the Gu family afford to support you? You're still needed to wash dishes for others. It's better to rely on yourself than on men These are the latest research results from abroad. Besides, I am planning to become Professor Drewman's disciple. Research Chips Then I underestimated you. You're done! Remember to turn off the lights before going to bed Gu Jiancheng Do you want to freeze me to death? Who told you to stay in my bed? Congratulations to Mr. Lin for successfully conquering the X7 chip technology I heard that Mr. Lin is a burden to Professor Drewmer. Can you reveal How did you collaborate to tackle this problem? Professor Drew Never heard of it Can overcome this technology It's all my personal talent and hard work. What is it that Professor Drewman Using your name to cheat Professor Drewman is trying to gain fame for himself. Deliberately taking advantage of the situation Shameless! How can he confuse right and wrong like this? ungrateful professor I'll go tell you to escape. professor professor Forget it I don't care about this search Just x world peace It's enough for humans to lose their husbands. Shen Jianing Carrian Lu Xincheng, you don't sleep late at night What are ghosts and ghosts called? My dear, have I never satisfied you? That will make you still miss other men in your dreams In this case Then I will satisfy you today ah Gu YuchengGu Yucheng What are you doing Let me go Let me go What are you doing? Gu Yucheng, let me go You are crazy Gu Jincheng What are you going to do? You dare to hit me I hit you I What's wrong with hitting you? biological Ahhhhh I'm sorry I just lost control I don't know why When I mention Lin Siyan, I can't help but think of Anyway, I will endure it even if you want to beat me or punish me. Shen Jianiang I'm just curious about the relationship between you and Lin Siyan Why do you target her again and again? Even in dreams I can mention her name Still so excited Do I need to explain to you? We are just a business marriage. You don't like me I have no feelings for you Don't touch me Ahhh What are you doing You go lightly The energy of facing death just now Now I can only touch Don't think I'll forgive you. Do you know how much you just went too far? I just did that because I Why Because you like me Or is it because you don't express your possessiveness loudly? Don't you forget We are just a business association Playing a trick Is this a plan that humans can come up with? Full of mistakes How can I approve it? Master This was personally reviewed and approved by you before leaving get off work last night. I use you to remind Get out, get out Don't want to see you Master, in fact, if you want to make the young lady happy, it is very simple Just Who said you wanted to coax him? Who said I wanted to tease him? That's fine. By the way, Master Professor Druman's mother has been found In the border town Do you think I should send someone to pick up the professor at the airport now? No I'll pick it up myself Shen Jianing Get on board We have found Professor Druman's mother. We are going to the airport to pick up the professor now Are you sure you don't want to go with us? The day when Lin Si Yan achieved success in the previous life Professor Drew Bay is also in the late stage of cancer The day of death Forget it. I don't regret coming to Yunzhu with him. Just Me I have one wish that has not been fulfilled. My grave he he professor professor Professor Professor Hahahahahahaha Ms. Shen This is Professor Drewman's experimental diary. You are the person he trusts the most. He is willing to give you his life's work. Why is he crying? Are you still angry about what happened last night? Last night was my fault I shouldn't disrespect you. Is it my fault that I heard this this morning? I'm going to accompany Lu Keyuan for a follow-up checkup Unsatisfied with the body I made an appointment with Lu Keyun to go to the hospital for a follow-up examination It was because squad leader Chen called to atone for his sins. Don't cry I promise you I will never force you again. I keep my distance from Lu Keyun Can I send him abroad? Thank you Gu Jincheng Thank you for fulfilling the professor's wish for me. We are a couple This is what I should do I was jealous just now Now you are so perfunctory Women are hard to please Just know His words of comfort were just spoken casually. Scumbag Hey, a deaf-mute A person who says one thing and does another It's a real headache What are you doing Isn't this what you said, just a casual act? The wrinkles are coming out soon Professor Dou Luman I am Gu Jincheng Nice to meet you I heard that you have news of 50 million My aunt has been living in the countryside for many years. Advanced age Some physical violence But don't worry I have hired the best medical team. Take care of him Thank you so much Actually, you should thank I should thank my wife. He helped me to make the two of us feel Hello, Professor My name is Shen Jianing Where have we met? Maybe this is fate. Professor, welcome to Yuzhou Professor, I will make sure you are safe this time. Hey, my takeaway has arrived. I put you at the front desk. Have you heard? Professor Drewman has come to Yunzhou It seems like joining the scientific research team of Gushun Group This old thing My husband invited you but you didn't come Without asking for anything, you'll just go and ask for it. What a snob. See how I teach you a lesson Mom, you are so shameless Sorry, Madam Gu. It's my fault. Let him go Why do you refuse my husband's invitation? Join Gu Group How much money should I give you? Three times This rude lady doesn't know you. Shen Jiaojiao, you should be careful when you throw a tantrum This is Gu Group Not a mental hospital You guys are so vicious. I know that Roman is my brother Siyuan's teacher. Still secretly making tricks to trick him into joining the story collection Now the old man gives you two choices Or my husband's name Or go back to your hometown. In short, I can't cooperate with Gushi Shen Jiaojiao Don't apologize to God for giving you some face Are you sick? Shen Jiaojiao, I'm very curious Who gave you the courage? Challenge my bottom line again and again What are you still standing there for? This madman Get me out Hey, don't move. Wait for me Sooner or later, you blood-hearted people Come out to me I didn't expect it Story Group's scientific research success has advanced so far It really opened my eyes. Can We have not yet mastered the key technology of x chip Professor, I don't know if you would like to join Let's work together to solve this problem Hey, takeaways are not allowed in. Blind not delivering food I'm looking for an old man named Druban. Excuse me I still can't let you in. Unless you have an appointment with him Please get out of my way. You don't understand. Hey, stop. The Master That Xian Brother Can't Get Don't take advantage of me I really admire your Chen Ye and Yuan Zhen And Le Ye can provoke you Looking forward to our cooperation open Shen Jiaojiao Who told you to go to Gu's Group to find Draman? Why are you mad at me? That old guy doesn't know what's good for him. Dare to cooperate with the Gu family Of course I have to go and argue with him. Now the streets are full They are all breaking in My wife, Lin Siyan, came out of a mental hospital. madman My eyes have been blinded by you. Who is willing to join my research team? Is it that serious? I'm sorry, Brother Siyan I was impulsive. never mind It's already like this Let's think about how to save face. Shen Jiajia this last time If you do anything impulsive again in the future Don't blame me for being ruthless I'm sorry, Brother Siyan I can't help you Always causing you trouble Forget it, I'll just go back to Shen's house. Stop being annoying here. Jojo I don't blame you I just can't control my emotions You are my wife How could I bear to let you leave? Then I forgive you. Ha ha husband We have been married for so long. Not that one yet. Today I will give you OK Uh uh Uh Jiaojiao I want to focus on my career now. That's not halfway. Which couple has been married for so long? Just holding hands and hugging People feel wronged, okay? We'll talk about it later. We'll talk later Li Siyan is not okay I'm like this Don't you feel anything at all? Are you a man? Is it the same when you are with Shen Jianiu? Shen's Beef Fan Dan talked about the things in the previous life again Shen Jiaojiao When did I get together with Shen Jialing? When did I get together with Shen Jianing? Sorry, I said the wrong thing. I I later Don't do anything that's sorry to me in the future. I feel upset when I see you ah Husband, let me go ah Don't let me go, let me go Chen Jianing, what's wrong with you? Carrian I have a fever Shen Jianning got up and took medicine Shen Jianning, please see for yourself. You didn't refuse my help. Don't wrongly accuse good people again. Open your mouth Um Open your mouth Yeah, let me go. I really got used to you. Open your mouth Get up and take medicine Open your mouth When I was sick There is someone who cares about you. Not like in the previous life I'm researching Can you go out and cough at the critical moment? You're looking at me so straight I will feel that you have other intentions towards me You're less narcissistic. I'm just daydreaming Look at me in a daze Are you sure you don't have any other thoughts about me? After all, I am such a handsome and elegant man Sleeping next to you every day It's hard not to be moved. Do you know what you look like now? Like a narcissistic peacock Say it again Speak when you speak Don't keep touching me. You want Kaiping to find your Lu Keyun asked me What kind of diligence is this? Why mention him so carefully? Lu Keyun and I are innocent Could you please not be so hard-headed? I didn't mean it. I have something else to do so I'm leaving first I didn't reject him. Master Phone Master Phone Hello Achen I learned your favorite dish. Come to my house tonight and try it I'm not free tonight Let's talk about it tomorrow Another day is another day How long has it been since he came to see me? It must be that bitch Shen Jiani Bitch, you must die. Let's get straight to the point. Although you are Ah Cheng's wife But you should know clearly Your marriage is a transaction. The one that Ah Cheng truly loves is me Since he loves you so much Why didn't he marry you? Instead, you choose to marry me. That's because his family forced him to He had to do it. Gu Jincheng will not be intimidated by anyone If a man doesn't choose you It only proves that he doesn't love you as much as you think. you You are trying to sow discord. Miss Lu, if a man really loves you He would just want to announce it to the world You are him The only But he doesn't love you either Aren't you still in Gu's Xue Feifeng? What's the difference between you and me? Yes, whether it was Lin Siying in the previous life Or Gu Jingcheng in this life They never really loved me. A loveless marriage is nothing but an empty shell I advise you to leave Ah Cheng as soon as possible. To pursue your own happiness As for me and Ah Cheng I will find a way to make him fall in love with me Ms. Lu Miss Lu Miss Lu It won't be discovered. rest assured Hello 120? Shen Jiani It's all your fault It made Brother Si Yang unwilling to touch me I really want to know If Gu Jincheng finds out that you bullied his sweetheart Little baby How to torture you What do you think? I think this needs to be followed up. Did I say When the professor is in a meeting No one is allowed to answer the phone. Professor, please continue Then the difference stage I'm disappointed that we can Master, this time it's yours. Mine too No one's calling. Sorry I don't check Men in love are all double standard dogs ah What What happened to Keyun? Miss Lu, did you accidentally take some illegal drugs? Fortunately, it was discovered in time No serious injuries However, he still needs to stay in hospital for observation for a period of time. Make sure there are no other problems with your body Thank you doctor Hey you bitch How dare you harm me Calm down. I won't do such a mean thing. Who else but the world? Keren How are you Ah Cheng You are finally here He actually drugged me Want to ruin my reputation He wouldn't do such a thing. There must be some misunderstanding between you. Nonsense You don't believe me Am I going to hurt myself? He asked me to meet him today just to make me leave. you He also said For a frail person like me Living in this world He's a burden and he wants me to die. Ms. Lu Your acting is so poor. Please think about your lines first next time. A loveless marriage is nothing but an empty shell Sister, I advise you to wake up as soon as possible. Leaving Acheng Jia Ning, you actually secretly recorded If I hadn't been more careful Isn't this what you rely on? Now you better give me a reasonable explanation Ah Chen, I didn't mean to lie to you. I just want you to care about me a little more Did you know What I hate most is cheating Safety I was wrong Safety Shen Jianing You don't even blame me for embarrassing your childhood sweetheart She did lie. You didn't do anything wrong Take me to the neighbor's house You really think I'm a driver. It's not convenient It's inconvenient. Find your own car Explain it to me clearly What do you mean you would consider Lu Keyun's suggestion? What do you think about him? I suggest you leave the Gu family. What's wrong What are you nervous about? Did I just say that casually? Stop saying such useless words in the future. I want you to control me Do you want me to take you back? Need not Shen Jianing is actually fine. How is this possible? Doesn't Huo Jinchen know to give me the drug that makes me feel sick? Shen Jiaojiao You fight me I'll play with you But you don't need to involve a third person I don't know what you are talking about Gu Jingcheng is on the roadside now you guess If he knew it was you who drugged Lu Keyun Will he skin you alive? Stop talking nonsense I drugged Lu Keyun Do you have any evidence? If you don't have evidence, I'll come find you. how so I clearly followed the previous life Carrying Mega Man's steps to do it Why isn't it wrong yet? Shen Jiaojiao, I'm warning you Be your wife Lin peacefully Stop playing tricks on me. Otherwise, I guarantee that your fate will not be the worst. Only the worst Are you threatening me? I tell you Now I just need to shout His two brothers were also dying. He will come to my rescue soon. I advise you to be more sensible Delete the video for me Oh, Hanako How come you got sick when you were fine? fine What's wrong? I'm looking at you I'm tired from working so hard. What kind of wife did you marry? Not only can I not share your worries It's just causing you trouble. I knew it earlier I should have chosen Shen Jianing. ah What's wrong with you? Do you really think the Lin brothers will stand up for you? Of course I'll tell you the truth Yun Siyan's younger brother Lin Xi A scientific genius who is even more powerful than Druman Future Nobel Laureates I have persuaded him to join the research on x chip If you don't add it, it will collapse immediately. Then you can kneel down and beg me to give you a meal. Ha ha ha ha Son, son, son You hold on Ah, Brother Xian Brother Xian Brother Xian, you What's wrong with you? Don't kill me. My son is not dead yet. Why are you crying? I quickly called 120 Acute gastric bleeding Previous life Lin Siyan was not treated in time. And almost lost his life It will take at least 20 minutes for the rescue vehicle to arrive. Gu Jincheng's car is nearby Hello, husband Lin Senyan is in trouble Need to send you immediately Willing to help me I didn't save you. But the Shen family I don't think my dad would agree. A widowed woman Keep coming back to eat your old man. Who are you saving, bitch? Shut up, Sangwenxing Why Son, you have to hold on. Doctor Doctor I seem to be okay. Your husband has acute gastric bleeding Unfortunately, he escaped from life-threatening situation I suggest not to observe tonight. I'm fine. I'm fine. Thank you doctor Thank you doctor It's all your fault. My son used to be in good health. Since you got married He got into various situations. You are a jinx. Can you please speak with some conscience? If I hadn't married your son Your son I don't know which street to beg for food on. Tell you that your whole family can have enough food and warm clothes You should thank me. Don't be impulsive, mom. How can you lay hands on your sister-in-law? Brother, you will be sad to hear this. Go home now Don't be an eyesore here. I'll take my sister-in-law home. Sister-in-law, let's go. no ah ah Who is coming to my house? Help! Help! Don't be nervous, sister-in-law. Boss Wang just wants to get close to you After all, it's pretty lonely now, brother. You are sick. I am your sister-in-law The bastard sister-in-law should just follow Boss Wang obediently. This way my cooperation with Boss Wang will be stable. This guy is having fun Stop! ah Open you Who are you Keep your voice down How dare you cuckold my son? I don't Brother Xian, do you believe that I am Lin Zede's sister-in-law? My brother can't have children. I'm not doing this for your own good. Boss Wang is very satisfied with you I have already promised to invest 70 million in my brother. What did you say Say it again Why didn't you tell her about this? Shut up This hahaha ha Hahahaha, that's how it is No wonder you don't want to touch it until now Ziyan You beast I'll kill you, bastard. Balls I'm sorry, I did this wrong. I'm afraid you can't bear the bad luck You don't deserve to be a man. You as a husband You I forgot that it was you who cried and asked to marry into my Lin family. Fortunately, I am a husband who can't do it. Forgot sister-in-law Is it necessary to make such a fuss over such a small matter? My eldest brother is now in the rising stage of his career I can't understand his pressure. Stop making trouble, okay? My family is all demons Shen Jiaojiao Anyway, our fourth master has never touched you. Otherwise you will follow the king Boss, isn't this the best of both worlds? Perfect for both What do you take me for? If you disagree Then divorce our Siyan Anyway, our Siyan will have a good life in the future. There will be a lot of girls lining up to pay for you in the future. No, I've tried so hard for so long. Why should I give other women a discount? You guys are not ashamed What am I afraid of? I want you to be twice as nice to me in the future. If you dare to be disrespectful to me in the future I'll warn you. Let your Lin family never have peace Oh, I just said it. I wish I had known I would marry Shen Jianing He is the eldest daughter of the Shen family. After I die Aren't all the children in that family the daughters of the eldest daughter? Look, now you're marrying this illegitimate child. The house is in a mess. Brother, our research has been stagnant for a long time. if We can no longer get Druman's experiments and data Our company is doomed. Don't worry, brother I will definitely help you keep an eye on Shen Jiaojiao Don't let her affect your frustration Why Why did it become like this? Shen Jianing clearly thinks you are fine She hasn't experienced this. Shen Jianing It's all your fault The pain I'm experiencing today I want you to pay me back a thousand times Hello Help me with something What are you going to do? Chase Hello Shen Jianing Staying out all night How dare you not answer my call? What are you standing there for? Find out where he is. Hey brother Shen Jiajia is such a cruel woman Shen Jianing, who had four or five people blocking him If the hero rescues the beauty successfully Shen Jianing must be grateful to you. Stop talking nonsense. Where is he? East Third Ring Road, hurry up We must get ahead of Gu Aren't you the best at running? Run How much money did Mr. Shen give you? I'll pay 10 times Let me go I want both money and a woman. Hahahaha, give it to me Let me go, let me go I wonder who dares to touch him. Where the hell did this bastard come from? Stop minding your own business. Do you know who you are protecting? Don't talk Break this up now. I don't give a fuck who you are. roll Go Go Go Why don't you answer the phone? My phone is out of battery. I'm fine. Fortunately, Mr. Gu arrived in time Why are you here? I accidentally heard Shen Jiaojiao wanted to harm you So I thought I'd come here to give you a heads up. Aren't you and Shen Jiaojiao deeply in love? When did you two start to become suspicious? I only recently found out Shen Jiaojiao's real purpose She doesn't love me at all. She just wants to take away everything that belongs to Jianing Jianing, I won't let Shen Jiaojiao succeed in her plot. It's not your turn to take care of my wife yet Um I'm not going to explain it yet. What is the relationship between you and Lin Siyuan? How to explain this? Tell him that Lin Siyuan and I were husband and wife in our previous life Talking Shen Jia Niu Anyway, I haven't done anything to let you down. You heard me clearly. You are my wife Stay away from him from now on. Then I ran with him. yes I can't stand other men approaching you. I won't let anyone hurt you. Shen Sanniang I'm a thousand times better than all of them. Ten thousand times, don't take it away from me It depends on your performance. Deal with your peach blossom debt first Show me your loyalty again. What's up Jinchen Can we meet? I have something important to tell you. What? Shen Jianing ran away? You are such a waste Oh, you really are Shen Tianyou Do you still have a conscience? If Shen Jiani hadn't saved me that day I am already dead You actually turned evil into kindness and harmed her. Stop pretending to be a good person. If I Expose the dirty deeds your family has done. Look who is being scolded. Since you hate this home so much Then let's get divorced. What did you say I said we left marriage What qualifications do you have to file for divorce? I didn't despise you when you were penniless I'll marry you I'll lend you money to start your own business I worry about your family. Now it seems that you are going to be successful. You want to kick me out? How much you want to be rich and famous No way Why are you holding me? When I don't know Spread Say you love me But come in You just want to take away the water maid's dog It's a pity that this face is not even as good as one of his fingers. What are you doing? mom I'm getting a divorce This is your home This engagement was supposed to be between me and him. Still raising a son You should have done this a long time ago Mom supports you, you can take up the post Treat your own son as a mistress Aren't you the third child? My son pursues happiness with his own ability What's wrong? Is it OK? Is it just a divorce? Leave At worst, I can take Boss Wang's name and become Mrs. Wang. This time I'll give you 70 million What does it mean? how You forgot what you did to me, right? Boss Wang doesn't have a son. Maybe the fat boy he thinks about day and night It's in my belly now. My son, Let's talk about the divorce later. What if he really is pregnant? This boss Wang has never had a son You said this jinx only needs to give birth to a son That's not how much money he has to invest. How much money did he invest? I can't even recognize him. You first need to find a way to cheat Shen Jianing and his money. Wait until Shen Jiaojiao gives birth to the baby Let's kick him out. Isn't this how we get through this difficult time? You Lin Jiahai are so embarrassed How can I let you go so easily? Shen Jianing Li Siyan No one can get rid of me Gu Jincheng, you stinky scumbag As soon as I see the white lotus, I become a criminal How long has it been? I don't even know how to make a phone call. Hello Gu Jinchao When will you go home? You feed you Dog Man There's nothing good Why am I so unlucky? I don't want to live anymore Jiang Xue You, you, don't cry first Where are you? welcome What does my sister want to play? Misunderstood. Misunderstood. I am not Xiao Fei. I'm here to look for someone. Who is my sister looking for? I'll take you there Go Go Go It's really hard to find It's easy to get Hello, Dad I saw my sister with another man Let's have a feast together What Come quickly Shen Jianing was having an affair outside without Gu Jingchen's knowledge If this is caught by the Gu family Isn't our Shen family finished? This shameless woman See how I deal with him today. Ah Cheng Have a glass of milk You cooked it yourself? Say what you want to say quickly Achen I just want to sincerely apologize to you. Thank you for forgiving me last time I'm really happy Are you still willing to come see me I have completed the procedures for going abroad. Next month you will go abroad to get the certificate. Achen Are you really so cruel? Not even a chance to change. Lu Keyun, I told you a long time ago I take care of you Just because you saved me I don't have any necessary feelings for you. See clearly Wake up This is settled. Ah Cheng, what's wrong with you? Ah Cheng Nun drugged Achen After tonight You are mine Hahahahahaha Then what Finally divorced him. Of course not. Save money hahaha Hilarious Hilarious Next Sister, sister, uh, I I have a joke Actually, I haven't opened for a month. Ha ha ha ha drink wine Hahaha Um Um Slow down, eh? Why None of you are allowed to leave. I'm going to the bathroom. Hey, is it ok? I'm glad I'll take you there ah Light Snow There is no good thing about a good man after breaking up. Miss Shen, I am different from them. I'll be nice to you haha Get up for me quickly Ah Cheng, Ah Cheng I really can't live without you, Cheng Hurry up and hold this crazy woman down Ah Cheng, I was wrong I really know I'm wrong It was Master Li Si who told me to do this. Ah Cheng I really can't live without you Master, are you okay? Can't die What happened? Master, you should watch it yourself. Shen Jianing Why Hey you Let me go Let me go Let me go stand Why is it you again? I have called the police Wait for Lao Li to rent a car and ask you later Okay, you wait for me. Hometown, are you okay? Lin Cuiyan You tracked I don't I just saw Shen Jiao here I'm afraid she'll harm you. Shen Jianing I want to see you Under the gaze of everyone Who is ruined Gu Qichen and Lin Siyan Will she treat you as a treasure? Ahhh help! Don't move, it's me Why are you here? Aren't you supposed to be here with Shen Jianing? I almost succeeded just now. Who knew that Gu Jingcheng would show up halfway? It shouldn't be Shouldn't he be at Lu Keyun's house right now? What to do now The guy said he would call the police Damn, I only know how to order people around. I picked it clean I was so angry that I didn't show up If you dare to touch me I can guarantee it You will have no place to stand in the entire Yunzhou You dare to threaten me? Don't forget that we are on the same boat now. You might as well just follow me. I promise I won't treat you badly. Do you dare? ah Stay away from me Stay away from me If you're really feeling bad I can help you There's no such thing as that. Here quickly Mrs. Gu What is your relationship with this gentleman? Miss Shen, did you betray Mr. Gu? What are you doing? What's good to shoot? I've never seen a boyfriend and a girlfriend fall in love. What to shoot Chen Jianing, you actually did such a shameless thing I am the old man Look Why is it you? What is the second daughter of the Shen family? It turns out that the second daughter of the Shen family cheated on her husband. I don't Not me You believe me It's him. It's him. Miss Shen, please don't turn your back on me. Don't forget that it was you who asked me to come in and keep you company Ha ha ha ha Locked Locked it locked it locked Ahhh Newborn Hu Shi Smells good, smells good, smells good Don't get excited I just want to help you let me go Smells good strong Try touching him again. Young Master Madam Shao seems to have been drugged Wait for me to get the medicine. If I said I died once I was your wife for 4 years and 3 years before I died. Do you believe it? I said As long as you explain I will wake up But it was all a dream Nightmare I don't want to stay in our dreams anymore I want to be with you restart Shen Jianiang You've thought it through. I don't want you to regret it Unless you don't want It's really shameful. How could my Shen family give birth to a scum like you? This is not all Jiaojiao's fault It's that little gangster. You're used to it. If you hadn't spoiled him since he was a child How could he have so many thoughts of harming others? If the person I married wasn't Lin Siyan Gu Jincheng The person you are scolding now is Shen Jianing, right? You always just put us As a tool for exchanging interests Have you ever cared about us? You beast We worked hard to raise you. Have you ever had a little gratitude? grateful Why should I be grateful to you? If you hadn't cheated on my mom Why do I always want to carry the identity of the deceased woman? Inferior everywhere Jiaojiao, how can you talk to your father like that? And you keep saying you love me But you only know to give me money Have you ever come to the Li family to see me? Do you know what kind of life I lead in the Li family? If Gou Wei's people were Gu Jingcheng's father Do I still have to live my life like this, always depending on others' opinions? You are crazy They only care about their own interests I want to fight for my own future Am I wrong? Why do you blame me? Get lost You think I cherish this home? I've had enough. Oh, that's him The Second Miss of the Shen Family I was persuaded to stop fucking in Tianya Abyss last night It's live broadcast How can such a person still have the nerve to show up? What are you shooting? No filming allowed Be careful or I will make sure you get out alive. Hey, what are you doing? Are you hitting someone? It's really lawless. Everyone, come and see the second young lady of the Shen family He hit someone. Why do you treat me like this? It's obviously the Shen family You are also him rolling rolling ah Ahahahahahahahahaha Ha ha ha ha Shen Jiaojiao Look at you like this It's disgusting. Let's get divorced I really can't stand it for a day Your disgusting face Do you really think you are a good person? Tell you, even if I divorce you You don't even think about being with Shen Jianing. Incompetent and selfish Despicable scum Get love from anyone Unbelievable poor creature Hahahaha that's not him You can never patch up a wall with mud Keep you alive hahaha Shut up you crazy woman Why don't you want me to leave? Reluctant My wife doesn't accompany me on business trips I'm sad When you didn't have a wife Isn't it a comfortable life? Shen Jianing, you're such a bummer Okay, husband. Need not I have an appointment with Professor Druman to go to the lab today Can't be late Isn't the flight at 10 o'clock? Take a break Otherwise there won't be a manager for the meeting. Okay, let Han Qing take you there. Be careful on the road If you need anything, call me anytime. good Let's go Bye-Bye Let's go Shen Jiaojiao, I warned you If you stay at home I will treat you well, but what about you? Every day, he makes trouble everywhere I'm now infamous. Shen Jianing has become what he is today because of you. I want you to live a life worse than death like me Shi Jianing Ahhhh Jiang, you bitch I will let you go Open up I'm a billionaire president. The richest man in Yunzhou Who of you will take my gun? Madman, stay. Let go of the dog food Three shots for you Come out if you can. ah How's your wife? Is she okay? I'm fine. In fact, I think he might have already had an erection. God is out of his mind rest assured Even if he's crazy The rest of his life must also be withdrawn under the sanctions of the law Master Shao Madam Something happened to Lin Siyan Jialing, you must save our Siyan You said that if something happens to him What shall we do as a family? Jialing, I beg you I've heard everything. The responsibility that Shen Jiaojiao should bear Our Shen family will not shirk responsibility But what did your Lin family do to Shen Jiaojiao? We will never forgive Lin Xi and Lin Ze are both adults They have an obligation to take responsibility for their actions They didn't do anything. What responsibility do you have? Has anyone reported your Lin family? Wang Chuanxiong, CEO of United Dafeng Enterprise Against the will of women Conducting unfair transactions Please, the three of you, come with us. Wang Miao, how could we possibly do such a thing? Are you guys mistaken? We don't even know any Wang Chuanxiong. Wang Chuanxiong has been arrested by us We are following procedures. Please help take it away Hey, they are They are innocent Hey, you can't take them away. They are innocent Shen Jiaojiao must be Shen Jiaojiao Damn this jinx. The patient has a serious head injury. Will you be able to wake up in the future? I can only see my ability to recover. Li Ciyan, you are a coward Whether in the last life or now I can never be like a man To face the problem Always running away Always let others bear the consequences for you It was me in my last life This life is Shen Jiaojiao We both gave everything for you You owe me I can't figure it out in this lifetime If you were still a man Just get up for me Face it all yourself Doctor Doctor Mr. Li began to regain consciousness This is a good sign Mr. Yin has woken up But his brain center Nerve damage Very likely to suffer hemiplegia Please be prepared I see Thank you doctor sorry Don't mention the past anymore. Since God has left you this life You should keep it to confess to the law Seeing the president's wife still kneeling I'm talking about you, bitch. Look at my weapon Make you kneel down Kneel down you Looks familiar Who are you Do I know you? Shen Jiaojiao Shen Jianing You Shen Jianing You dare to come What are you doing here? Come to see my joke? Why don't I dare to come? I ask myself whether it is in the last life or this life I've never done anything to offend you. It's you I have been losing myself in jealousy and delusion I should have thought of it earlier. You're back too, mom. Ha ha ha ha Yes, I'm jealous of you. Why why? You were born a high and mighty lady. And I have to endure the status of an illegitimate daughter Being looked down upon Stole my marriage Stole my future I am the damned woman in the world Why Why Re-Live You're still so lucky. A good life is earned by yourself I'm doing well It's not because I'm happy married to a particular person. But as long as I work hard No matter who I marry I can make him live well. You go to hell I would rather die than part with everything that belongs to me Kill you Today is the big day for Story Group's chip launch Could you please tell me What are the advantages of this x chip? About this issue At the press conference Professor Drewman will give a detailed report. Wait a minute, everyone. Mr. Gu, your wife is 3 months pregnant. For the first baby in your new home Is there anything you want to say to him? I am very much looking forward to the arrival of this child He is the fruit of our love It is also the future of our family.