[MUSIC PLAYING] Rahseed: Hey, there. It's Rasheed Finch and welcome Well, time flies. We've been on a journey meeting Googlers And this is the final But I do have some news on that, so stay So, today, we're talking It's a topic that, frankly, and perhaps just as many people In a nutshell, it's the to make sure more people can use with, say, speech, vision, or hearing. There's a lot of cool stuff And I think that even if you don't some of the accessibility features We're going to learn all about of the &quot;Made by Google&quot; podcast. My guest today is the Group Product Please welcome Vince Wu. [MUSIC PLAYING] Vince Wu, welcome to the Great to have you. Vince: Oh, thank you for inviting me. Rasheed: Absolutely. So you're a group product manager Could you describe to Vince: Yes. So I guess like a lot of there's a little bit of a and that's how, usually, looking at how we can make better serve folks with disabilities. And I work specifically Rasheed: All right, and we'll But listeners of this podcast will let's say, our corporate directory You can see where they work. You can see their profile picture. And you can also see So, Vince, I looked &quot;Android is useful for of ability, language, or region.&quot; Now, I think with some what do you mean with your mission? But yours is pretty clear, actually. Vince: Yeah, I think so. And that's what got me very interested We really want to build That's why I joined Google. And when I got in touch with it was a really easy decision Rasheed: Now, we've ago when we launched a But what I found it also tells you the tenure-- so how And I just couldn't help been with Google for over 16 years. As a matter of fact, you was a public operating system by Google What a ride it must have Vince: I never thought I would but I guess one thing led to another. What has really helped Google has been very supportive of And every three or four years, I've Currently, I'm based in Switzerland. Before, I was in the US, and I And so it really feels like even though I've been at One thing that connects a lot of my for the vast majority And so that set me up well-- that gave me the confidence like accessibility, which is across the platform. Rasheed: My guest today I met him years and still working on the Google Assistant. But, now, Vince Wu is the group product In many ways, accessibility It makes sure many more even if they have challenges with Accessibility is one of those areas at And as Vince will tell you, we're unimaginable just a few years ago. I loved Vince's passion because it makes such a profound and we're even going to do a live called Guided Frame. I hope you'll enjoy our conversation. So accessibility-- I that's maybe like this menu option they Could you explain to people, or what do we mean by it? Vince: So we really mean work well for all users, literally. We want to build for everyone, And so I think the most obvious thing well, we all know folks This could come in many forms. It could be a vision-related disability. It could be a It could be motor, which whether you can use fine motor skills. It could be something else. There's a broad range of this. And we want to, of course, the growth of devices in our lives-- we all have smartphones these days and maybe even your TV, your collection are all smart and connected these days. And we want to make sure that everything Rasheed: So any Googler I spoke every Googler I ever spoke to, they're So where do you get that on a topic like accessibility? Vince: Yeah. For me, I think it's very similar to is, often, we have a a close friend where we've may have struggled with using devices. And I think technology, for On one side, the more the more we rely on for being able to access things. They could become a barrier So that's one side of it. And then the other side of it, is there's a lot of things that we that was not possible in the past. I think it's very fascinating to-- there's both sides of it, to be in the middle of that. Rasheed: So maybe we can make Let's say someone has issues with What is something you to help them continue to use Android? Vince: Ah, yes. I'll maybe jump straight into out just to get a better understanding. Rasheed: Let's do it. Vince: Well, the first thing I So I think a lot of us take A lot of times, generally, folks don't want to listen to the audio. You can do it in many It works across many things-- YouTube videos. You can get it for phone calls. You can get it for But I think if we zoom into the need you, of course, won't be able to hear And being able to caption the sounds around you-- so captioning around, hey, what are Maybe there's a baby crying. Maybe there's an ambulance close by. So I think all of that comes into it. And I think, if we look at what we'd like to do is look and a range of disabilities So for the most extreme, let's say Something like captioning-- not Absolutely, right? And then if you look at someone of an impairment, or maybe it's just for them to listen to something, then captioning becomes something Maybe they turn it on for an and then they turn it off later on. Rasheed: That makes sense. And then, I think, as are many people you can help that Android has. So, for some people, might be hearing. Others might be vision. You mentioned dexterity, as well. How do you decide what to work on? To me, it seems like everything Yet, there has to be How do you tackle that? Vince: That's a great question. I think as people who we definitely want to work on everything is you start with the user. And we meet with people, and And I think, coming into this, I think there are some things and you take advantage of that. There are certain things where and you see that, oh, if you it may make a big difference if we and jump on that. So I think looking at where technology and then seeing what kind of maybe to give a very So, recently, we looked of general image understanding. And so we saw that-- so this is for folks with vision or they might need So you want to connect to understand images or understand Rasheed: And then the phone will tell for example? Vince: Yes. The technology that was very And so we jumped on that. And the example there is when they're building an app, and for example, you have a Home button, If they forget to label it, then to know what they're navigating a screen reader type of interface. And so with icon detection, we know this looks like a Home button. We can tell the user that's what it is. Rasheed: You mentioned talking to people with disabilities I guess that falls into What's that like to sit and learn these kind of things? Vince: Yeah. I think the difference between is I always learn something new on this maybe after a couple of I pretty much-- I understand the user. There's different groups. With accessibility, there's and there's also For example, someone who's aging-- getting older-- may have a bunch of maybe progressing at different rates. There's a difference like the US, versus other markets like, for example, India. I think there are many, many Some folks may have access to and some folks may not. Depending on the situation and there's just a ton of diversity here. Rasheed: Absolutely. Now, we've talked about captioning, rely on AI and machine frequently comes up in the podcast. What kind of role does and did the field change Vince: Oh, absolutely. I think I would struggle to find or it's not going to touch we're talking about people's senses. So your eyes, your ears, your or you might have a need around that. And that is exactly the fundamental To mention a few other so we have sound sensing. That's another area In vision, we have image captioning. We have an app called This is an app that not a but what's cool about it is that they can open the app, and There's different types of You can pull out some bills from your is identifying different kinds of bills. Another one might be food. So if you go to a grocery store, that you see on boxes, it'll tell you Rasheed: Oh, wow. Vince: Yeah. That's just fascinating-- the types Rasheed: Lookout-- I guess that's to download, if they want. It's just Lookout-- one word. Rasheed: Amazing. Now, Vince, we have a recurring podcast called Made by Numbers, to bring a number that's either they do. And we've had all sorts ones up until millions and billions. So just wondering what can guess what it relates to. Vince: OK. 1 in 7 and 1 in 5. Rasheed: Oh, that's interesting. So you're the first guest That's nice. 1 in 7 and 1 in 5-- I'm thinking that maybe one of those as having some sort of disability. Vince: Good guess. So that is 1 in 7. 1 in 7 people in the Rasheed: Right. OK, but then the 1 in 5-- I would not be able to Vince: Yeah, the 1 in 5-- maybe it's a little because it's not entirely related. 1 in 5 is more around the idea of-- the work that we do is actually The 1 in 5 is the number of people because I guess you know Rasheed: Sure. OK, and so looking through means that maybe in 20, your accessibility or will have more Vince: Absolutely. A couple of weeks ago I was And, obviously, I'm looking at their seeing how I can help them. And I showed them a few features that, accessibility-- things like changing the color contrast, And they don't need it all the time. They might need it maybe a couple are a little bit more tired than usual. But when they saw it, they I never thought to use it. And they loved it. Now they know how to turn it on and off. I think this is one of those more relevant than, will become more relevant over time. Rasheed: Now, there is this and Pixel 7 Pro that launched And rather than me maybe you can tell us what Vince: Ah, yeah. Yeah, very proud of that So it really came from at things from another point of view. So, historically, a lot of teams-- hey, how can we just make sure That's the starting point. And then we really tried and say, hey, let's look at what people and then figure out, are they And so when people use One of the top things is And so once we started it becomes very obvious. So we looked at people And it was actually quite interesting. At the beginning, people were like, There was a general comment just like, oh, do people even And then we got a lot of clear It was like, hey, obviously, and people also want to take selfies. People just want to. They want to do that. And then we were looking at And it was really hard for because you need to frame yourself By the time you press the the motor movements of your So people thought they were taking Rasheed: And then Guided And this is it going to be a first in because we're going to actually So I enabled TalkBack on my phone. TalkBack is what many when they have a vision the phone tells you what's on-screen. And once you have TalkBack enabled, that in the Camera app, basically, right? Vince: Yeah. Rasheed: So I'm going Now I'm-- Phone: Switch to Camera mode. Auto. Max. Zero faces. Off. Rasheed: Let's go to the Selfie Camera. Phone: Ready for-- one cropped face. Move your phone left. No faces in frame. Rasheed: I'm misframed, apparently. Let's see if I can change. I'm closing my eyes, by the Phone: One cropped face. Move your phone left. Rasheed: OK. Phone: No faces in frame. Rasheed: Oh, the other left. Phone: One cropped face. Move your phone left and up. Rasheed: Up. OK. Phone: Ready for selfie. 3, 2, 1. Photo taken. One face. Good for selfie. Rasheed: That's actually amazing, Vince. That actually tells me, or how to frame themselves. Vince: And you felt it-- you closed how hard that could be right. Rasheed: Yeah, absolutely. It is really hard because I actually and it was still coaching me of, a little bit more to the left. That's amazing. And I think, for many of us to take a selfie. And then, now, since Pixel 7, to maybe do that properly Vince: Yeah. Something that doesn't is that we tuned a lot of-- a So you must have felt it in your hands. When you were getting closer, it And it's not obvious, but we went of that and tested it so many times Rasheed: That's amazing. And maybe we can talk about some for people to use in accessibility. So we have talked about captioning. We also have Live Transcribe, but it's not quite the same. Could you explain the differences? Vince: Yeah. So Live Transcribe is for more let's say, you're having dinner, and and you want to make sure that everyone then you would pull up Live Transcribe. And then you would be voices transcribed into text for you. Rasheed: Right. So at the dinner party, I Vince: Yeah. Rasheed: --and I'm going to Vince: Exactly, exactly. Rasheed: All right. And you mentioned but it's easy to understand if it can just tell me what I'm seeing. And, again, this is something like, if when AI wasn't as prominent, this would probably. Vince: Absolutely, man. You were asking me earlier around, like, I would have never be able to do something like this. This is all advances that I don't know-- like 7, 8 years. And things have progressed And just looking at really energized by what is possible. Rasheed: Well, something that-- but something that, to me, sounds like is sound notifications. What is that? Vince: Yeah. So sound notifications-- let's say I'm but I do, of course, want to know if An example might be my carbon Maybe I have things in the kitchen want to know-- so things like that. Rasheed: Right. So would I then make and then it will recognize Vince: Yeah. So right out of the box it will detect things So this is a pretrained model that that we've collected. But you can also customize it, too. So we recently added a feature, so we call it Custom Sounds. So you can record the beeping that might be a little bit different, I actually have a kettle that and so I did it for my phone. Rasheed: Right. And then when the kettle makes that Vince: Yeah, then you would and you also get a history view, So you can go back in time and Did my dog bark a couple of hours ago? You can see what has happened Rasheed: Right. So this is going to be a tricky said, 16 years ago, I would have something like we have now. But I still need to ask What's in the future of accessibility? What's, maybe, something you'd that maybe isn't just possible today? Vince: Something that comes to mind, a lot, is sign language detection. So what's possible today is we can like typing with sign But general purpose and making it super fluid where-- it's We're conversing. Maybe we're in a video call together. Let's say, I only know it's what I'm most comfortable with. And then you speak back And it could be any language. So imagine sign language as being one of and we can go back and forth. You talk to me in German. I speak to you back in Wouldn't that be neat? Rasheed: And then the would be converted, for me, into-- well, German speech or text, I guess. I would speak in German-- Rasheed: --which I probably shouldn't But if I do that, and it would I guess, sign language graphics Vince: It could. Why couldn't it? Yeah, you can definitely render Rasheed: That's amazing. And this is, again, something unimaginable-- that you'd and build something like this. Now I feel like I could and maybe people wouldn't laugh at me. Rasheed: Right. And I'm not laughing at you. I just hope you do it someday. That'd be amazing. So, Vince, one of the I'm thinking that, at into people that have a certain And they find out that on actually helps them use technology What's the proudest moment an accessibility feature you worked on? Vince: I think my proudest the ones where, if they didn't have those cases, definitely, warm my heart. But I do have to say, because I'm a hey, what's not working for you? Tell me the bugs, and That's maybe a little bit Rasheed: Got it. And is there any specific you ran into or, maybe, or maybe it's a friend where you had that experience where Vince: Yeah. Surprisingly, one of my friends And I let them know about it So you can actually make phone calls, And I guess it just wasn't well-known. And I showed it, and it was basically Rasheed: That's someone who and now was able to. Vince: Yeah, or they might have It's possible, so it's not But this is around independence, right? Vince: People want to be and that is very, very important. Rasheed: And that's a to know that Live everything, including phone calls. Vince: Yes, absolutely. Rasheed: That's definitely Vince, we've come to for the road, where we ask our or maybe it's top tips manager or any of these things. It's basically your moment. [MUSIC PLAYING] What are your top tips for our Vince: I think what comes to mind is, features that maybe aren't-- maybe they're kind of hidden. So the most useful ones I think, are things around font sizes, I use this one a lot called a select and then you can just tap it And I find it very useful because where I can just be paying full Rasheed: That's amazing. Vince, thank you so much for your time. We learned a lot about accessibility and your team is doing. So thank you so much for joining us. Vince: Thank you for having me. Rasheed: Well, I feel very Everyone should benefit proud that we're working to make sure no one is left behind. So two highlights from today-- Guided Frame available on Pixel 7. And Lookout is an app you can so go check that out. We hope you enjoyed this first season We had a ton of fun making it We started with Isaac, and explained how he wants to create he meant more confident photographers if you see what I mean. We met Jesse and Rae, Android and Pixel pretty much and personal data secure. Isabel told us all talking about, for why it matters that it looks beautiful Wi-Fi, and how manicuring is a great way to test that color. Monika explained what makes our Tensor hint, it's AI, of course-- and why synthetic benchmarks only a part that isn't very interesting. Nino, from the Speech Team, taught us human speech and how, we could tune the system to DeCarlos works on Fitbit what all those sensors do Pixel Watch is heading next in terms Karen and Anish explained or what's the matter with Matter-- all those puns. Well, Matter is the help us bring your smart and And then, today, we had Vince showing including and perhaps especially It's been a true privilege to and bring our conversations to you doing at Google to just a bit easier and more delightful. So is this the end? Well, I have some great news to share. We are exploring great new and numbers for a second season So, in other words, do not unsubscribe. Or, actually, do subscribe if you Thanks, again, so much for listening. We've had a lot of fun and we hope you enjoyed listening to it. Let's meet again next year, shall we? So, please, take care. Enjoy the end of 2022 and