Hi guys I'm Bettie from Baker Bettie.com and welcome back to another video. Now today we are going to learn video in our quick bread series. Now in the biscuit mixing method as we learned biscuits and we are going to be using our scones. Now if you compare a scone notice that there are quite a few being is that our scones are going to which is going to give us a little bit Now the scones we are making today are American-style bakery scone because they you can feel free to leave these plain a European-style scone. So let's go ahead our scones we are going to combine all mixing bowl and whisk those together. So and that is going to be the main 1/2 cup of granulated sugar which is . slightly I have a 1/2 teaspoon of salt one full tablespoon of baking powder really gives our scones a lot of lift just want to whisk all of that together wanted to add any kind of spices into could add those in at this point as well. So our next step is to cut our cold butter into our flour mixture so I have unsalted butter that I have cut up into this into our flour mixture and I am the flour. Now if you don't have a pastry want to cut this in until it is the of cutting our butter into our flour first is that the butter is going to from the liquid to help reduce gluten scones really light and tender. The pieces of fat throughout our scones little pockets of flakiness. So you can flour to create a texture like a coarse want our fat to be cold before we do solid as it's cut into our flour. We want all of those little pieces of fat lot of flakiness in our scones. So now if your dough you would want to do it at sort of as a blank canvas for anything berries, nuts, chocolate chips, or dried of and I'm going to be using some frozen going to add berries I like to use dough really cold and it's easier to scone dough .But if you only have fresh adding one cup of frozen blueberries toss those to combine. Our next step is to combine all of our half a cup of heavy cream here and this of richness into our scone. Now I'm is going to really help bind our scones of the ingredients that was not in our bit of a more crumbly texture than the I'm going to also add in to our wet some lemon zest. Now this is really going scones but you can use any flavoring you extract would be really nice in these like chocolate chips into your scones. So together until it's well combined and Now you just want to add the wet dry ingredients and mix this together biscuits you really don't want to over a few turns with the spatula and then we top to form it. Now you can see here that of shaggy but that's perfect, Just lightly flour your counter top and Now flour your hands and bring all of gentle with this. And once you have all are going to create some folds in the thick now fold the dough in half. Now point but it will start coming together 90-degree turn and gently press it out again. You don't want to break all of those berries, a few of them might break But just to be gentle with it. Okay and you need to you can lightly flour it and a total of six folds. Okay so now I'm going to form this into inch thick. Now we're just going to cut going to be using my bench knife here when you are baking but you could also then in half again and then you're going eight scones. Now gently transfer these over to a these go into the oven I am brushing going to dust them with some sanding texture over the top and a little extra to 425 degrees Fahrenheit and that high these puff up really nicely. So now I'm golden brown. The scones just came out of to get nice and golden brown and you can are. Now these are perfect as is but you glaze to pour on these by just mixing lemon juice until it is a pourable get a bad rep for being too dense, too these are not like that at all and that start with really cold ingredients you and not mix it too much and you're going and light and tender and moist. They're outside and they're so tender on the love these. Now I really hope you enjoyed sure you give it a thumbs up and I'm questions. You can leave those in the already subscribed make sure you hit notification bell so you never miss a Instagram and on Facebook and I recipe tutorial. I'll see you guys then.