(electronic chiming) - [Falcon] The more people that play video games, the better. But, well, in some ways. Not necessarily in skill. Actually, kinda the opposite. And if you're among that casual mass, there are certain corners it doesn't make sense to go. Hi, folks, it's Falcon, 10 games you shouldn't play if you suck at video games. Starting off with number 10, This hardcore multiplayer is known for two things, controversial developers, and its utterly unforgiving difficulty. There's a baseline expectation challenge when coming into any online game because real people playing the game are always gonna be more That simple. But compared to your standard shooters, this game is on another level. Everything is working against you, from the complex controls to to the lack of tutorials of &quot;Escape from Tarkov&quot;. Everything is obtuse and difficult. Just doing something basic like healing requires multiple items that don't work the way you might think. Even something that would as gun customization is confusing as hell because attachments often require other attachments to even work. Certain things only work with certain guns and none of it's explained anywhere. For most new players, the is that you drop into a map wander around for 10 minutes and then die. (footsteps pattering) (gunshot cracking) (gunshot cracking) (gunshot cracking) In this game's case, you're just as likely to get shot by an AI enemy as another player, 'cause the AI in this It's also an extraction game, so if you die in a mission, you lose everything that's not insured. The best players are rolling around with modded-out weapons and body armor where you're just some chump with a pea-shooter against them. Pretty much everything is And it just dares you to keep playing. For the right kind of player, You gotta be willing to but there is a lot of But if you just plain suck, maybe start with something Playing &quot;Tarkov&quot; as your first shooter is like being a first-time gambler and playing Russian roulette. You don't have to do that to yourself. (man panting) (man coughing) (yelling in foreign language) At number nine is &quot;Ghostrunner&quot;. So, let's roll back to something that's a little less hardcore, but still brutally difficult if you're not on the game's wavelength. &quot;Ghostrunner&quot;'s basically &quot;Hotline Miami&quot;, but first person, and that means the death In a game where most enemies have pistols, machine guns, and worse, even experienced FPS players are gonna die a lot in this one. But if you're not, it's not so much frustrating but fun, it's just frustrating. (energetic music) (gunshot cracking) - [Falcon] It's one of those games where you have to have if you wanna get good, and some people are just The thing about games like &quot;Hotline Miami&quot; is it's a pixel art game, top-down view. You can see everything that is at least to some extent. And &quot;Ghostrunner&quot;, You're trapped in first person and, well, sometimes the game before you go through it. Most of the time, you're forced to rely on instincts or trial and error to get through some of these fights. Also, &quot;Hotline Miami&quot; is a lot more mechanically Because of first-person view alone, it can be much fiddlier, and it's easy to make or a veteran for that, matter. It's easy to make mistakes. It's the play style that just aren't used to, and it can be a real smack in the face. At the end of the day. It's one of those games or it doesn't. There's a reason why Some players just don't get so every enemy is a It's a game that, it does Maybe not as much as &quot;Tarkov&quot; per se. It's a single-player game, after all. But the level of challenge for someone who sucks at video games. Even slo-mo is not gonna (energetic music) (gunshots cracking) At number eight is &quot;Rocket League&quot;. There's games with high skill ceilings, and then there's &quot;Rocket League&quot;. Might look like a cute that can be a lot of fun to and that's true, it can be. But if you're playing the game for real, against other players, you gotta throw any of those This is not an easy time. The people who play this game extremely competitive, and And if you join a team as a little noob who has no idea what they're doing, expect your team to get for being dead weight. (crowd cheering) - [Crowd] 10! Nine! Eight! Seven! Six! Five! (triumphant horn music) - [Falcon] If you wanna online for real, you have to learn the ins And even at the lower levels, you need to be able to like it's second nature, to be frank. Otherwise, you're really just And that's just low levels. At high skill levels, it is unbelievable the sort of moves players Getting good at it requires that are good for &quot;Rocket League&quot;, and that's it. They're good for &quot;Rocket League&quot;. It's a unique game. There's really just nothing quite like it in the multiplayer space, which means there's a who have been playing this for years and they're able to do some And by that I mean they will report you for sucking too hard. Games where you're on but when you got a whole to pull your weight, things are gonna get worse. This game requires a lot from its players. I mean, look at this This is, look at this This is a literal dissertation! For most games, getting started means skipping through but in &quot;Rocket League&quot;, because your first game ever is your exam, and if you flunk it, you (cars clattering) (explosion booming) (triumphant horn music) At number seven is &quot;Spelunky 2&quot;. There's plenty of brutal but &quot;Spelunky 2&quot; is just next level. The first game was rough, but this one cranks the and snaps it off. It's unbelievable. If you've never seen these games before, they might seem like but they're actually brutal tests of endurance and mental fortitude. Every little thing wants to kill you. There's traps and enemies everywhere, and you're the world's most who takes damage from falling a little more than half the screen. And this game is all about going downward. These games revel in cascading failures where unexpected and chaotic that pretty much (machinery rumbling) (flames roaring) (bug squelching) (explosions booming) If you're willing to roll with it, the deaths can be pretty But if you're the type that and be done with it, these games are, I mean, absolutely miserable. There's so many ways to die and it forces you to but there's still gonna be so many things that just happen you don't predict, so you'll end up wasting an hour or more on yet another unsuccessful run. The original game would around the ice caves, the But &quot;Spelunky 2&quot; just wastes no time. They're out to kill you in the first area and it only gets more sadistic from there. It's a game that's made for masochists that mastered the first game and are looking for a greater challenge, not for newbies looking to start out. Roguelike games just who are just starting out, or for people who just kinda suck. There's no autosaves, no If you die, your progress gets reset and you have to start again. There are some roguelikes so dying isn't that bad, but &quot;Spelunky 2&quot; is old school. The best you can get is eventually starting from lower levels, which is not gonna help In fact, you'll get killed faster. (suspenseful music) (dirt crumbling) At number six is &quot;Rainbow Six Siege&quot;. The thing that makes is just how different it is Yeah, there's shooting, but the siege part is what Attacks can come from anywhere. Any players can smash open break in through ceilings. Attacks can come from any direction. It all depends on the and what abilities they have. Many of the operators' abilities are also just not intuitive, and understanding how well, it's necessary to do It's a complicated game requires a lot of teamwork and cooperation to pull out a victory, and for a lot of game modes, dying is a big setback. If you're just running trying to up your KDR, you're gonna be in for a rude awakening. This is, it's not that kind of game. You're gonna get torn to and your allies for being worthless. Getting good at &quot;Siege&quot; means shooting at a and having a deep understanding You need to know how to place traps and the best ways to counter 'em. You need to know operator not to mention understanding to know when and where other players can and will attack from. I mean, there's a hell of but if you can't shoot with you might as well give up now. Like the fast reaction There's no class for no healer or support that can hang back and just play the objectives. You just gotta be able to pull it out. Otherwise, you're not pulling your weight. &quot;Rainbow Six Siege&quot; is a hardcore and very, very technical FPS, and if you suck, don't bother. It's not gonna be fun for you. At number five is &quot;Ghosts Capcom took one of the the original &quot;Ghosts 'n Goblins&quot; for NES, and made it way worse. The 2021 follow-up is so hard You'd think a new would include some modern conveniences to make it a smoother, And in a way, they did, but they made the game 10 Like, the first level. The first level is ridiculously Right from the first second, the game is just bombarding and unpredictable traps. (blood squelching) (vulture crying) (blood squelching) (bright chiming) (blood squelching) (bones clattering) It's a brutal gauntlet meant to test your resolve at every step. If you're a masochist, there's a certain satisfaction at dying and dying again, only to finally make a But if you just suck, these kinds of games don't You're just slamming your and you're kinda like, &quot;Well, eventually that And if you suck, it's not gonna. You gotta know how to That's the thing about this game. It's not just regular hard. It may be, no joke, one or at least one of the hardest given a wide release by a major publisher. It cannot be understated how relentlessly dickish this game can be. Original NES game looked I'm not even kidding, either. There's no comparison. We live in an age where Some of the bestselling, are very difficult. But &quot;Ghosts 'n Goblins Resurrection&quot;, it went overboard. It's just too damn hard. If you suck at platformers, stay far, far away from this one. (trap clanking) (bones clattering) At number four is &quot;Sekiro&quot;. Yeah, kinda cliche to bring but there's a reason for that. This game is really damn hard. If you wanna stand any kind you gotta get good at That's the name of the game. Timing is everything in this game. Death can come in literally seconds. Doesn't take a lot of And even with additional lives, that's where the subtle it's still a ball-busting experience. It's one of those games that but when you're just starting out, even the most basic enemies I remember struggling for way too long against the first ogre mini-boss. It's like this stupid But with enough perseverance, even a chump with bad The most important skill is pattern recognition, bar none. You gotta observe enemies, figure out the exact And if you can do that, you can get pretty good in &quot;Sekiro&quot;. But if you're impatient and try to spam the block command too often, it's gonna get really Not to say that spamming because it actually does a But if you can get the timing right to properly parry enemy attacks, you're gonna do better It's just really tough. No matter how good you think you're probably still gonna die a lot because that's the kind of game it is. It's an unforgiving, cruel If you're still a beginner, it's not gonna be fun to play &quot;Sekiro&quot; unless you really like to Maybe you do, I don't know, and maybe you learn best by No judgment if that's the case. But you've been warned. (spear thudding) (speaking in foreign language) At number three is &quot;League of Legends&quot;. I'm putting &quot;League&quot; in the title, but this is really a catchall for every &quot;Dota&quot; and Dota-like out there. For as popular as these games are, they are not kind to players who suck. There's a term for them and if you are one, you're If you got a bad player on like &quot;Call of Duty&quot; or something, having a crappy player is bad. But in these games, any it's not just a setback for you, it's a boost for your enemies. (spells booming) (faint speaking) (spells booming) (champion screaming) (champion laughing) (champion yelling) To be fair, though, it's very easy to be bad at these games. There's tons of heroes or legends or whatever the game wants to call them, each with their own mechanics, Learning to play as one of these guys is like learning to play except that in Dotas, there's hard counters depending You're always at a disadvantage so you can't just learn your own guy's strengths and weaknesses. You have to have a broad There's a hell of a lot you need to know going into one of these games. And even though they're top-down, there's still a certain required to play effectively. For certain types of but it can also be frustrating as hell, and that's if you're good at these games. If you're bad at 'em, well, It's one of those games isn't just bad for you, - [Miss Fortune] I know what I'm doing. (gunshot booming) - [Falcon] At number two Forget sucking at video games. You shouldn't play this if you're good. Being good isn't enough You've gotta be a &quot;Mario&quot; god to even get through the first stage, and it only gets tougher from there. Ever hear of Kaizo? This game is that. A Kaizo is a hack where the game is pushed to its absolute limit for difficulty. These things are designed to be possible, but only for the most Death is literally Surviving means basically playing perfect. And because Mario games that means the perfect Stopping means losing momentum, which means you can't do it anymore. It becomes impossible. So, what else do I Look at this mess. There's spikes everywhere. All the jumps are pixel-perfect. You gotta do counterintuitive And of course, there's the like invisible blocks meant It's the absolute pinnacle And if you suck at games, just stick to the regular This is masochistic insanity. And finally, at number A fun name to say, a hard game to play. As insane as Kaizos like People did manage to complete them, and relatively quickly, too. Wanna know how long it took Seven years, seven years! Or at least, that's how long it took to beat the Death Label mode. But that doesn't mean the rest of the game is easy, far from it. This is one of the hardest It's the definition of a bullet hell. These games are defined by tons and tons of projectiles. You're somehow supposed to and that's primarily where These games are designed to be as unrelentingly difficult as possible. The level of challenge on (speaking foreign language) (explosions booming) (energetic music) You can count your playtime It's just overwhelming how much crap this game throws at you. I think it's safe to say that if you're not any good at shmups, stay far, far away from this one. These games are designed for only the most dedicated players. You gotta be willing to put in hundreds of hours of experience just to make incremental progress. These games are about as close as a game can be to impossible while still being technically And if that sounds like you should probably avoid it. There are shmups out there They aren't all this But in general, it's a genre for people who are willing to put up with some pretty old-school design, that is to say, they're This game just so happens Sucky players need not apply. There's nothing to be And that's all for today. Leave us a comment, let If you like this video, click like. If you're not subscribed, We upload brand-new videos Best way to see them first so click subscribe. Don't forget to enable all notifications. And as always, we thank you very much for watching this video. I'm Falcon, you can follow and we'll see you next time