This is a skeleton missing a snow golem and no players. But let's backtrack a bit. Mobs in code that makes them do what they do. But is there movements eventually come together to beat the without any players, at all? Today we'll be seeing their own, calculating what the probability of seed where you can watch it happen yourself. This is the team that's going to beat but he's kind of a wild card. The enderman's only mobs in the game that can place and remove but it's essential to beating Minecraft without other mobs can use. They can also teleport into blocks. So let's assume that in this Minecraft pathfind to the nearest stronghold. Woah woah Before we actually start looking for we have to understand how it would even be Mobs at their core are driven by target in an area around them, walk to it, wait, the random motion that we're used to. So It can pathfind to any of the blocks around it, that it chooses this block, then this one, to the edge. Unlikely, but technically So again let's assume that in this Minecraft pathfind to the nearest stronghold. Again, the and it would take years. But we're we're considering what is possible, given infinite could absolutely walk to the stronghold. But The enderman can remove dirt and grass they actually even dig down. And as end we're going to need a way to dig. Enter, the creeper were to join our party at just the right which would then explode. Digging into the and our two kamikaze miners have But if you're observant, you might be asking get here? These guys don't just spawn to life. Well that's almost true. While snow they don't have to be built by a player. mechanic of the enderman. Their ability to bring and they can pick up pumpkins. Carved pumpkins and woodland mansions. All an enderman steal a pumpkin and complete the golem. It's worth pointing out there is another explosion than creepers, and endermen can pick more rare to come by. As you may already but enderman can't pick up the sandstone go would be the fake portal room hidden in that's where our wild card comes in. Skeletons flame bow. If one of these skeletons tries to enderman placed TNT, and start digging that Now I'm not going to sit here and tell you that it's more unlikely and rare than the creeper say any one of these methods is more likely than and unlikely to happen. Instead, the main reason a half ago RetroGamingNow made a really similar skeletons. And I'm not trying to make an exact definitely check out Retro's. It's different, So perfect, we've made it to the portal. is a multi-layered problem. The first, and most place eyes of ender. And as a result, the only playing on a 12 eye world, where the portal a trillion chance pales in comparison to the odds The other layer is a bit more challenging. Chunk just load the end. Stuff can't happen in another it. Even worse, mobs don't act independently. do anything on their own. They have to be within a move around. So without a player, our mobs can will happen and they will never exist on the other That's where this guy comes in. You may have team. The goat. And it has arguably one of the Our player isn't allowed to do anything in world to even exist and load in the first do 9 blocks of knockback to AFK players. So a safe a goat will be continuously headbutting our player loading the chunks on the other side. one to load the overworld, and one to But wait, because just like mobs working together to build an insane mansion. Whenever someone the average color of their profile picture, and add it to the outline of this giant mansion. their average profile picture color mapped to blue So subscribe to claim your own unique block, ever. When the mansion is done, I'll post the But with the goats and chunk loading problem The initial end spawn platform. There are two ideal. Scenario one, we spawn inside a cage, and but then you realize, the player has to be there. but our end loader will absolutely die if a Problem scenario two, a gap. If the mobs spawn the main end island, they obviously won't be able so making a bridge to cross the void is out of the just result in an instant loss. Do we just have The problem stems from understanding what and for that we need to kill the end crystals. and tnt or a creeper to pillar up to the crystals All we need is a snow golem. A snow golem but if an enderman builds a snow golem then the snow golem won't realize there's something for us. The cage situation is a bit more is make a staircase of blocks going upwards, teleport inside the crystal cage, and crystal. This completely bypasses the problem and pumpkin can just teleport the gap and build The problem inside the endstone is solved with Explosions do damage to players based on the a few blocks of dirt in between the player and the snowman can detonate the explosive and it'll do no this process to build a tunnel. The enderman so that the skeleton doesn't agro onto him. And onto the final step of beating the game, killing of an issue. A creeper walks into the end portal, bomb it a good hundred times or you stockpile The gap scenario though, is a challenge, we platform is too far away and we can't bridge. nor can they detonate TNT. Again it seems like is a fuse. If an enderman makes a gargantuan TNT TNT blocks, all it takes is one bad arrow Just think about how awesome that is. Given mobs could beat Minecraft entirely But what are the chances it actually where we can watch this happen? Well, snowman building 24 by 24 grid. Let's and we want him to build a snow golem over here. going to involve a little bit of math just so you of the video length will be a little rushed, so The first thing that needs to happen is he needs to pathfind or teleport to any one of 576 blocks in this grid, so the chances or roughly 10%. He can also walk, but since he can this space. So first he'll have to walk somewhere and then he can pick his second walk target, the probability that the enderman walks to a can walk to and summing that for all the rows They grab a snow block, without walking away. for this. Now they have to walk OR teleport give them two teleports because walking is and not anywhere else along the way. Again, going to the snow patch, do it again. Teleport place scaffolding, grab a pumpkin, you get the the chance of a single snow golem being That's one snow golem. The chance of the mobs But don't count it out just yet because on this per the infinite monkey theorem, if you let write out the complete works of Shakespeare, they will one day beat Minecraft. On every single So don't ever be discouraged by low chances, no low odds of random particles colliding with other beautiful and amazing, you. And the chance of you makes mobs beating the game look like don't you? So who's to say anything is but even more so, thank you for