- [Announcer] This dramatization is based on extensive research The events of this film are by law enforcement agencies. (light guitar music) Sometimes I wander with no direction I just can't see for All the confusion All the deception and lies I was still falling out of good graces I was as low as a man can be That's when I heard To stand by your side Rise up to meet him Rise up to greet him Rise, rise, rise When you are falling He will be calling to rise, rise, rise I am still climbing I can see sunlight filling the sky So many answers, things Oh, oh, oh Things are much clearer My blinded eyes can finally see Now I can hear you calling me softly To stand by your side Rise up to meet him Rise up to greet him, rise, rise, rise (crowd applauding) - Everybody is so obsessed money and sex. And what do the churches do about it? Nothing. People sit in their padded and make pious noises someday off in the future. Oh, thank you, darling. Now, how are we supposed that rejects those with gifts from God to spread His holy word? Tell 'em. - Four years of college, almost two years of graduate school, and then they tell me I'm not needed. - You're not the first good by the so-called ministers. They disfellowshipped me when I was 19, because I prophesied a present truth, and they just didn't wanna hear it. Don't you all love Adrian? (crowd murmuring) - [Girl] Yeah, we love you Adrian. - [Vernon] Bill, how can for finding this guy? - Well, you could let us stay here. - (chuckles) Well, Bill, but God's told me that you and Lily need to come and be where you Need to gather the faithful around me. - Carol. What do you think? Should your father and - Do you have a choice? - I know it's what Vernon wants, but I... - Mother, you sent me to Do you have so little faith that you wouldn't answer - You see the Bible tells us that Jesus is going to - But before that can happen, the world and all its and that's where prophecy comes in. You've heard the Book of - Well, I haven't read the Bible much. - Don't worry, most people don't and those that do most You see Jason, a prophet is a man... - Or a woman. - Or a woman sent by to stop worshiping false idols, and accept His word. - Do you believe in the Lord? Do you believe in the Well, he's given me another one, a special message. A message about you, Libby. - Me? - He's told me to give you my seed. Do you understand what that means? It means that God has chosen Psalm 127 says, &quot;Lo, children &quot;and the fruit of the Because that's what he needs, who will except His and come back to earth and live Will you do that, Libby? Will you help me give - I'll do anything. - To sell everything You know, I'd have to leave my job. - Which you hate, almost as much as I - I know. Do you really believe he's a prophet? - I felt something, didn't you? Look, the church doesn't want us. This is our chance for It's what we've wanted. What have we got to lose? Can we at least think - Can't sleep? - Ah, my mind's you know. I've been thinking about - Maybe think about it this way, what are you leaving behind? Not much. - Not much, yeah. Some family, I guess and... - Mount Carmel, we're a spiritual family held together by the love of God. Jason, I was born a bastard. Never went beyond the ninth grade. Couldn't hardly read And then I didn't stop I saw panoramic views of the scripture, and that's when I understood that I'd been called by the Lord, and in this world is falling apart. It's important to be with Look here, you see this? - Yeah, it's slow. It's almost one. - No, no, Jason. It's an hour till midnight Accept His word. Accept His message. Please, come with us and be saved. Rise up to meet him Rise up to greet him Rise, rise, rise When you are falling He will be calling to rise, rise, rise Rise up to meet him Rise up to greet him Rise, rise, rise When you are falling He will be calling to rise, rise, rise - [Woman] Hey! - Hey, big boy, come here (lips smack). - Hey, how was your trip? - Oh, it was good. It's good to be back with the family. How you doing? - Meg, oh, I'm so happy to see you. - Welcome to your new home. - And your family. - Oh, thank you. - Did you see any movie stars? - No, but I saw the Hollywood sign. - Hi, welcome. I'm Gloria. - Hi, Gloria, I'm Adrian. - Adrian. - [Adrian] My wife, Michelle. - Hey, welcome. - I want you to meet, - Welcome, I'm Glenn. - How are you doing? - (indistinct) great, - There they are, hi! - Hi, welcome to Mount Carmel. - [Man] Can you give them a hand? - Welcome. - [Woman] You're welcome. - Hi, welcome to Mount Carmel. - [Mary] My name's Mary, hi! - Hi. - Hi. - I'm Laura. - [Man] Welcome to Mount Carmel. - Jason. - [Man] Here, let me take that. - [Woman] Just go over. (engine roaring) (sirens wailing) - [Officer] ATF, get 'em up, get 'em up! Hands in the air! Where I can see 'em, come on! Keep them there! Get out, get up against the truck! Get up against there! - You got a search warrant? - Read it and weep slick. - We've been watching you guys for weeks. - Bring him up. - Oh, lookie what I see here, Where'd you get the machine gun? - I don't know, man. I'm - You can play hell with but we have to have a little and our needs. - I don't know nothing about nothing. - I'll tell you what, you take because I got time. Read him his rights. Get him outta here. - Come on Frankie. You have the right to remaining silent. - My guy says it's his right to bear arms. Look at this. That he is selling drugs - Doesn't matter, Danny. It's way too much of this stuff. We gotta get it off the street. Triple, are you telling me - I am not telling you anything. I am a messenger, remember? - Oh yeah. Well here's a message you Our bad guys kill people, including us. - And your idea is not new. You may recall we've to report illegal weapons. - They covered too much territory. - We're talking about a You get an 800 number. They and letting people know - Excuse me, but you know what that costs? - Oh, come on. Bumpers stickers, It's not that expensive. - We've got to let the good Then they'll help us. - You know, Lasson, when it's the special agent in a few friends in high places. - I'm willing to take that chance. - It's an idea that'll save - All right, let's go, come on. The pastor's gonna be here. Let me get your books. - Adrian, Vernon wants you to in the chapel. - You bet. - Okay buddy. Let's do it. So there is still lunch. - Okay. Vernon's got a thing - How about raisins, fresh fruit. - Sorry, dietary rules. Vernon says we have to get Changing the rules, it's like discipline. But the only things absolutely forbidden are pork and chocolate. You okay? - Yeah, I guess, I just can't figure out what I'm doing here. - Come on. I'll be your tour guide. Now, Glen and Meg, they're He's kind of Vernon's second in command. Eating lean's good. But takes some getting used to. - Famine. - When the apocalypse Famine, war, pestilence, death. - Watch your step. - The kids all go to school in town. And some people Vernon sends into work. Me too some days. I'm training to be a teacher's aide. So when we have to teach the - All right. - Around there is the shooting range and out there is the exercise field. Oh Lord exercises, I don't know but I can count I don't know but I can count Babylon will go to hell - Babylon. - Babylonians, the world. With all this will protect us from, like that part in the so we can see what's coming. Before I got here, they even buried a bus which leads to an underground shelter the men are still working on, along with tunnels to It gets easier to understand when you realize that the only people who will be saved are those who have - What does saved mean? - After everyone dies, who return with him to a new world, sinless paradise. (piano music) - Hey, how do you like it? - It's fabulous. - You wanna try it? - Yeah. - Here we go. (soothing music) When it feels like there's And my heart's crying Like a light burning bright One look from you and the You're my oasis and place I can go When the world around When the noise and the Like I'm breaking in two My motto is just (indistinct) Sometimes it feels like And the luck of the All I have to do is And the love that I It's true You're my oasis, a place I can go When the world around When the noise and the Like I'm breaking in two You're my oasis - Dude, don't shoot. Guard duty your first week. That's what you get from - Yeah. - Oh, I brought you this. - Thanks. - Is he gonna play all night? - He might, the spirit's on him. Sometimes he preaches 15 hours. - I got a question for you. Does he have more than one wife? - People shouldn't gossip. It's kind of a secret wouldn't understand. - Yeah, no lie. I'm sorry. Look, all this stuff is new to me. I mean, I've only been here a little while and I'm already guarding something. I'm not even sure what. But like you said, takes - Rebecca is his official wife. But in the Lord, he - And you? - I haven't been called yet. He only gives us his seed to women who have found the light. At first, I thought it's - You're married. - I was. My husband thinks I'm crazy. But most outsiders do. - I don't think so. - Even my parents do. They accepted the message When Vernon called them to the states, they just couldn't bear to Even though they know Jesus said, you have to give up - I don't know if I can do that. - I do. I knew at the minute I saw you. You're one of us, just keep Faith is a substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen. - Sir, ma'am. What's matter, sir? Are - Crack pot. - Now that's just the kind of thing that the children of Crack pot, fool. What, do you think that the old dry book telling It is about what is - You're just gonna stand there, Russ. - He's just talking Charlie. - [Man] Real nice... - Hear the word of the Lord. - Now Vernon. - My prophets are like - Ezekiel 13:3. - 13:4. - You do know your Bible, Why don't you just gather up your people and go back to Mount Carmel. - Dave, all I'm trying to do - I know, but we heard you I don't think you're going to - What, you think there Repent or I will come onto thee quickly and I will fight against thee - Vernon please. - We'll be back. - Sure. - All you do is clip on. Get the screw here, a couple Go ahead and try it. (rapid gunshots) - Like I said, they're bit A little weird maybe, like automatic guns and - No, I know what you're saying, Louis. - Once again, 11 West Lafayette. Everyone got their assignments. - Yeah, but boss, could you tell Elizabeth to stop running on my back? My bunker's heavy. - You gotta move that thing. - All right, folks, I want from channel three. He and his cameramen will and hopefully spread the word about our telephone hotline program. Pat, I want you guys to stay in a van until we hit the porch. We're gonna be moving pretty fast. I don't want you to get in the way and I don't want you to get hurt. - Gotcha. - They're not gonna blow - Hey, I don't mind. - Just put this on. - Let's do it. - Yeah. - Yeah, I wanna make sure (indistinct). (suspenseful music) - ATF police, open up. Do it. - Go, go, go. (police yelling) - Way to go, Bob. - Yeah, you're public enemy number one. - Along with the squirt This raid by agents from Tobacco and Firearms that automatic weapons along - Camera loves you buddy. - Our cameras were there in the New Orleans ATFs designed to help law abiding citizens who want to report any regarding illegal weapons. - Thank you, Pat. Well, Lingling the pen. (officers applauding) - He's good. - All right guys. Calm down. I know you think the TV is Wrong. It's a game film every little mistake and we're gonna watch - Come on boss, we're great. - And now with TV stars. - Todd, they put your (phone rings) - ATF. - Bob, they're all lighting up. - ATF. - ATF. - This thing just might work. - That's why we gotta get better. - All right. Thank you Jack. - You know Russ, all you and see for yourself. - Well, I just didn't want You know, I gotta be religious types, ain't that right? - Yeah. Well, I don't know but every gun we got out there is legal. And so is this. - What you got there. You got a hellfire? And what do you need one - Look, we got a right to protect our home and it shall come to be in the final days. - Oh, come on Vernon layoff, will you? I mean, I ain't convertible. Remember my only interest is to keep you from scaring people so they won't think you're dangerous, man. So you and yours can live in peace and you can do your own thing. - That's all we want. - And take this to daddy okay? Come on, sweetie, take it to daddy. Go on, take it to daddy. It's okay. - Matthew, bring it here. - Go sweetie, go. - Did you hear me, son? - He's just a little scared, that's all. - What are you talking about? I'm his father. - Well, I know he just, he Come on sweetie. - Matthew, get over here. No, by himself. - Come on, honey. - Do you wanna go to bed without supper? - Matthew, honey, please come on. - Then you bring it here. - I'm right here. Come on, sweetie, please. - All right, no supper. No, no, you stay out of it. Matthew. - Vernon, you're scaring the boy. - What, do you think your pity You think it's gonna save his soul? Hector, we still got rats in the shed? - Yeah Vernon. (suspenseful music) - Kneel. Matthew, kneel. - Vernon, please, he's gonna get bit. - Hold your hands. I am praying for you, Matthew. I am praying that the and strength because you are and the lions' den if you stand with me and lead the purified into paradise. Do you wanna live in paradise? Well then even if the rats And never cry out. Can you do that Matthew, Stay on your knees. (suspenseful music) - Do you know what it's like To have someone pull off your wings like you're some kind of fly. I don't care who hears me. - Well, I do. - Me too. You know, Jason, the army was your family. They threw you out. You're here now and I want you to stay. We all do. There's a lot of But you were a soldier. You understand the If we're all just gonna go then what's the point of being here. And if we're not obedient then when the time of Instead of going to live You understand? - Yeah. - You know, sometimes I hate Well, come on, let's go Thou art worthy oh Lord to receive glory and honor and power for And for that pleasure, Betsy. Betsy, begin Revelations five. - And I saw in his right a book written and on the backside... - A book written within sealed with seven seals. Did you memorize the chapter? - I had homework. - This is your home. This is your work, the work of the Lord. Leave. - I'll pay attention. - Not tonight. You're not ready. You think I enjoy your Vernon's too strict, you say. And you're right, I am strict. Revelation 3:19, &quot;As many as I love, &quot;I rebuke and chase him.&quot; Vernon's a hypocrite, you say and why? If I am deceived, why don't Why don't you do that branches? Why don't you show enough Christian love to show me where I am wrong Vernon likes Dory better than me. And you're right, sometimes I do, but don't tell me that because or I used to drink beer That stuff won't hold over And yet you revile me. That's right. Jeremiah 20:10. &quot;I've heard the whispering of many. &quot;Perhaps he will be &quot;against him.&quot; But it goes on, &quot;The Lord is &quot;Therefore my persecutors Now what I need to know is are you ready to live the message? Are you ready to live by the book? Are you gonna bitch and to be holy? Who wants to live forever? Who wants to live in paradise? Revelation 2:10, &quot;Be &quot;and I shall give thee a crown of life.&quot; You ready to die for Christ? - I think so. - Are you ready to kill for him? Another weak Christian, all of you weak. Weak and it is killing me to if you do not follow me. Philippians one, &quot;I am &quot;of the gospel.&quot; Will you follow me? - [Congregation] Yes. - Will you follow me? - [Congregation] Yes. - Lucy, get up, come over here. Lift up your dress. Higher, higher. Go on. Look at her. Now, how many of you lust after her? The truth. Raise your hands. Now, how many do you of the rest of you lust after your wives forgetting that in the paradise to come, made for you out of the as God gave Eve to Adam. Go on, sit down, Lucy. God has spoken to me. He has told me that Vernon Howell is dead. That I am the lamb and descended from the singer of Psalms. David Koresh, which means who freed the Jews from Babylon. He told me that all women, the married too, all women and shall bear the fruit of my seed. I was deeply troubled by his message and I prayed on it and I asked the Lord, why for must I do this? And he gave me a new light. He told me that just from the sins of the world, so must I bear the sins and so that all of you will be free to seek the kingdom of heaven. This way was chosen for me by the Lord. That's right, you're mine. And you and you. And from this moment onward, if you lie with your it's adultery. Thou shall not commit adultery. Now go on, live in this new life. - Are you sure? - No. Are you? But I don't see any other way. If we're gonna hold together, all of us. Help me. Give me your blessing. It's your love that's - And God's. - Delivery for David Koresh. (suspenseful music) (people chattering) - I want you to take this - Well, thank you Jessica, - You're welcome. - Ooh, I got gumbo for the boss. Whoa, what did you put in this? I had some last year, couldn't - Hey, you talking about - Yeah. - All right. You show us, hot shot. Come on. - No backboard, no real. Out. - Very nice. - Folks. Can I have your attention please? A toast to ATF guns. (audience applauding) Guys, we got the bureaucrats to buy it. And all of you who helped 100 reads and not a scratch. (audience applauding) And for our wives and for all the crazy hours To the new Orleans special response team. Here, here. - [Audience] Here, here. - Danny, that was Triple. Our 800 number idea is going national. - All right, congratulations. - He just wanted us to know appreciated our innovative diligence. - That sounds like Triple. What else? - He's faxing us some information in Waco, Texas. - Monday, Bob. - Okay now, close your eyes. Now open. You know what it means? - The house of David? - Not yet, but you're promise to the lamb. Now you just wait for him to call. - Vernon Howell, AKA David Koresh joined the branch Davidians in Here he is with Lois Rodin, and ther son, George. Word is Vernon slept with the old lady, ended up in a fight with George And here they are in 1987 in exile at a place called Palestine, Texas. Eventually they staged an armed raid to try to get the sect property back, which ended up in a shootout. But Rodin was such a nut case, look like one of the mill fundamentalists and they all got off. They even had to give 'em their guns back. Since then, Rodin got sent to jail, Koresh built this place. - So is he a nut too? - Not all the time. We don't know a lot about but we do know he received - Hey David, come on, look at this. - I'll take 'em both. - I thought we were looking - You got a problem, Adrian? - Yeah, I came here to - Yeah. Well, I kind of figured seen as how a lot of times you're too busy committing - Come on, David. - She hasn't moved outta Has she? - Hi. - Hi. - We're just talking. - Great. See you later. - He's a false prophet. He has to be. - Yeah, but what if he's not? - You're changing your mind. You wanna join the house of David? - No, the thought of him touching me. - I'm sorry. I know you didn't wanna come. - It's okay. Just when I think of If he's the one, we'll burn in hell. - How can he be the one if he's having sex with little girls? (gunshots) - Look, all I'm saying going on around here I - Like what? - Like Vernon and Betsy I saw her. And it turns out Libby and then all the weapons and digging the tunnels and Jay, something's wrong. - Sure, the end's coming. - You really believe that? - Don't you? - Yeah, I do. But what I don't believe Not anymore. Not with what he's doing. I can't. And since I feel like I'm for your being here, I wanted And I wanna ask you, Not even Laura. You wanna come? - Jason, you shouldn't even be here. - I know, but when am I - You're not. All right, listen, no God doesn't care about a girl's age. He sends David to her or her to David when He, God thinks she's ready. - If she's 12 years old, come on Laura. - Since women is Vernon - What are you trying to say? He has the right to have sex with kids. - What are you trying to say? He's a prophet of God. He has a right to do whatever - And what if he's a false prophet? Laura, I love you, but - I love you and I'll keep loving you. A pure love with my heart no matter how many babies Please, don't be jealous. - I can't help in it. - It's not David I'll give myself to. It's God and God's future. Jason, I love you, but I If you have to go, I'll understand. It won't change how I feel. You'll always be here. - They're gone. - They left everything, clothes, books. - Hector said he saw 'em driving away. - The world is dying. It's like some great raging beast and it will try to destroy And the Babylonians will offer to the Adrians and the People who will lie about me, about us. And they will drag me away yelling, crucify him, crucify him. - Jesus had one Judas, David Will there be more? Will you be my Judas? Will you? Will you? Will you die in the field of blood? - Mr. Blachet. - That's me. This is Mr. Cole. - How do you do? - Sue Lamas with the The people I called you They've been telling me about Vernon Howard, you should hear. - He's building an arsenal in - Could you be more specific? - No, I'm a musician. We didn't have to handle the guns. Look, all I know is you If you don't get those people I swear to you, some of 'em are gonna die. - [Children] Chocolate. - Good. So y'all have my number in case - Any other recommendations Ms. Lamas. - Running water. Mr. Howell. Better sanitation facilities. - Yeah, well as sure Adrian - And is your room still and air conditioning? - Well, yeah, right now. Why, does that count of child abuse? (dramatic music) - They're coming. Can you feel it? From now on we teach the children here. - Of course we'll cooperate but I gotta tell you, Bob, one hell a time building - Why's that? - Well, a lot of folks You know that. Some of 'em got lots of guns I know that David or Vernon or whatever he's calling He's a strange bird, I understand that. But our local children's service worker couldn't find anything Believe you, me, she really, really tried. - What about that girl? One of his dad's claiming - Yeah, I know Betsy Lynn. Well, in my opinion, it's just a run of the I mean, that's the way I see it. - And the grenades? - They're holes, Bob, grenade holes. They're not illegal and those They're not illegal. As far as I know, nothing And if there was, I'd be right out there. - I know you would Russ. Look, we're not here to but of course he's It's our job to find out. - Well, like I said, we'll cooperate. - I appreciate that Russ. (dramatic music) - So where's Vernon? - He's busy. He sent me instead. - What is it that you're looking for? - Well, he wants to make a business deal. - He wants to buy - You've got a firearm He wants to be partners. - Oh yeah. Tell him I'll give him a call. - David. David. Dory said that you were gonna California. - Carol. - Yeah, I am going to California, LA. Check out some musicians, You know what, why don't - Carol. Carol, please listen to me. I saw all you girls with being born for the Lord. I envied you. I wanted to be a part of it. And when David said that if I believed, really believed that God I know part of me thinks it's silly, but another part. Oh, Carol, David's the lamb Heal, raise the dead, Don't hate me. - Mom, I don't, but I've I'm leaving here and I'm not coming back. - No, I... - Please, just listen to me. It's not that I don't believe it's just sharing a man with your mother. It's just not normal. You know what I mean? More and more I've become to realize that I wanna be normal again. Not special or divine or Just ordinary. - What about your father and me? - Daddy thinks he's gonna burn in hell. He'll never leave. I'd really like Isaac to have a grandma. - Me too. - Oh, good morning. - More? - Man, these chemical salesmen - Try shipping orders. Just keep your eyes on the prize, boys. This is how we build the case. - So I hear you claim to be a prophet. - No. I claim you're not the - Since when does God talk to Judas? - Vernon. - Whatever your name is, - Then why are you so nervous? If I'm a man like any other, - Because... - You're out of control. - Oh, how's that? - Libby for one thing - You think young girls When I first slept with Libby, I could feel her little Once she started man, - Okay, that's fine. Whatever, but I'm out. - Why have you betrayed me? Why have you and your whore when you know, you know I am the Messiah. Come again. - Are you crazy? - Jesus was pure the first time, Jesus was sinless the first time. But me, I'm impure return as a sinner so that when I'll know the temptations of man. His lusts, his desires. God wants me to be fair, if I don't know what you've suffered? Please, Adrian, for your Be one of us again. - So Christ was once offered and unto them that looked for him shall he appear the second time That's the Bible. Hebrews 9:28. - Who are you to Who are you to place yourself that I am? Hang yourself Judas and hang your whore. I know your deeds, that you have a name and that you are alive, but you are dead. - I thought you'd be gone by now. - Faith is a substance Isn't that what you said? - But if you're just hoping - Maybe the fact that I'm still here is the proof of my faith. The evidence of things not seen. If this were just about but it's not. Sure, I'm still hoping something God works some mysterious ways, right? There's something else It really is a family. I'm starting to feel like I might belong. - Wanna know what I think, and little Vernon Howell from Tyler, Texas has become a megalomaniac who and is gonna save his people especially people like you and me. And I know he is messing with those kids. - Sexually. - Probably. There've been a number to mothers, some of 'em to put the father's names - Well, that would fit with what we know about Koresh's other wives. - I know he is doing it, because not only is he he's messing with their minds. When they talk to me, they're all smiles. It's like they were But underneath secrets. I know you need evidence. Best I can do are these. Not much of a photographer. - Home sweet home. Looks dark. - It is. It's like a rabbit warren out there. Howell's always got them building. There are places I - Well, thank you very much. If there's anything else you can think of, the local Sheriff's office - I'd rather contact you directly. There are things I reported about the kids that I - We have to cooperate or we can't do our job. - I'm just telling you, the man's influence. - Like what? - Member of the Sheriff's with the Davidians. Howell can be very charming. And the more he is the more powerful he becomes. - And the more powerful, Now, we hear he's saying he's Christ. - I say bury him under a rock. If he comes up in three days, - Amen. Thank you. - What's going on? - Go get David, go get David. - (indistinct) are you ready to go? Well, it's gonna be all - [Man] Who's gonna be judge. - She's my daughter. They have no right. - According to Babylonian law, they do. - She is your wife, aren't - We're not ready. - Will we ever be? - Dory, the signs are all there. The end is coming. Babylon is still strong &quot;He shall make war against the lamb &quot;and he shall overcome them.&quot; But we mustn't give them before we're ready to defend ourselves. - Thank you for your - We're law abiding citizens, Ms. Lamas, even when faced with an injustice. - You just don't get it, do you? - Look, I know you're anxious, but we do have some constraints. We have to legally before we can justify a search warrant. Now we're moving as fast as we can. - Not fast enough. I've told the sheriffs, - The newspapers. - In Waco, they're doing a series on him. - Oh great. - Nobody understands. You're gonna take on a man who - We understand that. - No, you don't. He wants to take you on. See you're the guys are gonna come and martyr The one he's preparing for. And every day you wait, And the more dangerous. - We need to know everything the routine, weapons. So when they come to it's their business. I want you to go along. Now, who's religious? - Well, I'm a recovering Catholic. Does that count? - I was raised Presbyterian, sort of. - God help us. Okay, Louise and Stan, As far as you two guys are concerned, you want nothing to do with them. Now there's the compound. Let's figure out how to get in. (dramatic music) - Morning. - Hi, morning. - Trouble. - Yeah, it's this damn battery. - I'll give you a jump, - Oh, that'd be great. Yeah, we do. Dale, why don't you go get the cables? - Stan. - Louise. - Hector. I live over there at Mount Carmel. You guys should stop by sometime. Maybe have some dinner. - Great. - Yeah, I'd love to. - Him too. - Yeah, I don't know about him. Somebody told him you were Jesus freaks. - So what are you guys? Baptist, Jews. - Grad students. - Yeah. - I'll pull up. - Great. - Can you really see with that? Is somebody living in - College students, Where's Dory? - With David. She's depressed. I let her have my place. I'm sorry. Dejavu, remember. - Everything. - If you'd left, I could as a nonbeliever, but you didn't leave. And when he called tonight, not to go. To come out here to see you. Which means I'm probably not but he wouldn't have called if I'm not. I shouldn't have done that. It wasn't fair. You're relieved. - You're right, I am. - Did you fornicate with her? - No. - Did you fornicate with him? - No. No? No? - It was just a kiss. - Just a kiss, when the Now is the time to choose. Lust or obedience. - Obedience. - Lust or obedience. - Obedience. - Do you wanna live forever? - [Congregation] Yes. - Do you wanna live in paradise? - [Congregation] Yes. - Will you die for me? - [Congregation] Yes. - Will you kill for me? - [Congregation] Yes. - Will you kill for me? - [Congregation] Yes. - Will you kill for me? - Yes David, I would. - Laura, I'd like to see (suspenseful music) - No, sit down. - No. - Adrian told me that - But I promised not to tell. - How come Betsy? - You're gonna kill them. - No, I'm not, no. But I am afraid that they might be hurt because of all the weapons - They're locked up. - But you have seen them, haven't you? - Sure, some. The one David wears, I even held it once. - He let you handle a pistol? - Sure when I... - When Betsy? When he was teaching you how to shoot? How to load it. When Betsy, when did David - It wasn't just me, it One day in the chapel when he we'd all come back to live in paradise with the lamb after we... - After you die. - He taught us the right way That way we won't miss or get - Koresh has guys out to all over Texas. - Buying machine gun. - No, mostly handguns, every now and again, some parts. - He must be converting the semis. Neighbors are hearing machine gunfire. - I know. - And it looks like hire a gun dealer as a front. - Tracing the firearms transactions It seems that in the last 15 months, he spent just about 200,000 on weapons, related equipment and ammunition. - In the gun department, he needs to fully automate We estimate he's got 100 machine guns. - I assume none of the folks - We checked, National and our own firearms licensing section. Search came up negative. - He's accumulated considerable amounts of potassium nitrate, In the proper proportion, Also those grenade holes with parts he has. Add black powder, which over the past year, working grenades. - Plus a 50 caliber anti tank silencers, body armor, and radio controlled - I'd say that gives - Agreed. - So all we have to do - What about picking him up at a gun show? - Well, he's not going I think he's feeling the pressure. - Well, it's gonna get worse. Turns out Bob's information was correct. The Waco paper is working on a series. - As if he wasn't paranoid enough. - I'll have a conversation For now, I'll mobilize the other teams. - This is the best information What we know is where the weapons are. Here and on the overview, it's here. We also know daily routine. We know when the men are separated from the women and children. Now this is important, but for yours. There's over 100 people in here. All of the adults have and some of the kids have been instructed in suicide techniques. Okay, Steve Willis, you'll lead to Houston and Dallas teams through the front gate, And you'll secure to the ground floor. - Sir. - New Orleans, you'll go You'll go onto the roof Jackson, you and your men where the old ladies are. It won't be so funny Myerson, you and Robo. You'll cover us up onto the roof and then you'll get to the And you'll get there before anyone, anyone can get to the cyanide. We're gonna protect these - We appreciate what you've but it would help us out a lot if you'd hold off on - If we do, will you Well, like I told you before, the only thing I can guarantee I can't tell you any we don't want Koresh spooked. - We've talked to him several times. He was gone. - Yeah, but he didn't have We just don't want our men - We've already held - What's a few more days? This isn't the Pentagon papers. Okay. Let me put it to you this way. When are you gonna publish? One to two weeks? - Sooner. - One to seven days. - Stands to reason. - Okay. Thank you. - Gotta be Sunday. That's the biggest - Monday's still okay. Give 'em only one day to get crazier. - All right guys, let's do it. - Ready and (whistle blows) (officers yelling) - Federal agents with a search warrant. Open up. (officers yelling) - Time. (whistle blows) - Listen up. How long? - Minute six. - Too long, Paul. 30 seconds people. 30 seconds. Let's do it again. Move! (indistinct) The way Koresh has this people If he was a Marine (indistinct) they'd probably give him a commendation. - If they didn't kick - All the guys wanted to - Let's see. Well, you can put that on a T-shirt. I'll take two. - Yeah, but do I get three wives? - Nope. You just get one - Waco paper just called, - Who'd start a series on Saturday? - Give him two days. He'll be jumping. - It's too late to get anything Let's go on Sunday after Bible classes. The men will be separated Huh? - Sounds good. - You guys sure you - Ah, sorry, I got a calculus test. - I'd sure like to come - Anytime. - What the hell's going on here? Bible study, rock and roll? - War. (gunshots) (indistinct) (men yelling) - If the Bible is true, then I am Christ. But so what? What's so great about being Christ. A man nailed to across a man of sorrow, acquainted with grief. You know being Christ ain't nothing. Well, they've twisted They're laughing at us, but they cannot stop the message. It's here. They'll try to kill us, but It is here. I am telling you, Babylonians are coming. (suspenseful music) - Doug Cameron, Deputy Tactical Commander. - Nice to meet you. - This is Retor, Sprague, and Callway, they'll be the forward observers. - Okay, come on in, I'll get you set up. (dramatic music) - We just left the staging area. Any frantic activity? - No, sir. He's ran about the are coming for him, talking Bible riddles. Same stuff every day. - Put Cameron on. - Yes, sir. Sir. - Yeah. - What do you see? - No movement. Nothing on the ground, You have a green light. - That's him. (dramatic music) - Remember, no blind firing. You have to see your target and he or she has to be an immediate threat. (suspenseful music) - Got a man in the front door. - No matter what happens. Say focused, do your own job. - They're here. (suspenseful music) - Federal agents with a - Search warrant, open up. (rapid gunfire) - I'm hit, damn it, I'm hit. - (indistinct) get out of here. (explosion) - Damn it, the bastards (gunshots) - Go, let's go. Hurry. - Now, go to the tower. - Move, get out the way, go. (gunshots) - Go, go, go. You guys take that side. - All right. (suspenseful music) Man inside. (explosion) (rapid gunfire) - I'm hit. I'm hit in the leg. (gunfire) - I'm out of ammo, you all right? - Yeah, I'm all right. - Man on the water tank with - I see him. - Door, door. (gunshots) - I got it. (gunfire continues) - Hey, come on out. Get off the roof. (gunshots) - I've had bad guys. - Danny, where are you, Danny? - Inside on the ground. Direct down the air condition I'm losing blood fast. - All right, hold on, Danny. We'll get there as quick as we can. (gunshots) Right now we're pinned. (groans) (gunfire) - Do you read me? I'm losing a lot of blood. - I'm calling in. We It's Doug Cameron with the ATF. - What you doing here? Go away, leave us alone. - We're here to serve a search warrant. - Get out, just take your - [Doug] We need to talk. - We don't need to talk. We just want you to get the hell away. - We can work this out, but first we've got to stop shooting. (gunfire) - Jason, Jason, they wanna cease fire. - No they don't, David's right. The enemy's at our gate. Don't worry honey, I never - No. (gunshots) - No, no. - We got some men down, - Hold the fire. Come and get 'em. - One's inside. - All right, but no more - I'm negotiating a cease fire. I think we've got something that'll hold. Only take four when you get Danny. - You trust these crazy peggers? - Hell no, but it's all we got. - I'm gonna go get Danny. Cease five, hold your fire. - Cease fire. - Paul, I'm scared. - Honey, so am I. - Medic, get a medic over here. (suspenseful music) All right, Bobby? - Yeah, I'll be alright. - You two. Come with me. - Get me a medic. Hang on. Hang on, buddy. - Guns up. (dramatic music) All right, Danny. All right Danny, we're here How are you doing? Easy, easy. - I'm not dying with my face in this mud. - Get the ladder. - Yeah, I got him. (dramatic music) Up. - Roll it, roll. - Take it easy. - Yeah, slide him back. - Take him back up. On the trailer there. - Yeah. That's good. - How you doing Bob? - All right, outstanding. - Shot up pretty bad, but - Lebleu? - No. - How many others? - I don't know. - That's not good. - You've got no right to You've made it come true. The lamb of God knew the end was coming and we've been preparing for a long time. - Now, how are we gonna resolve this? - You need to walk out and give up. We're not leaving. - No, that won't do. This won't be all over until But if you can solve the the mysteries of the seven - You know guys, we could (dramatic music) - [Narrator] The raid on Mount in the history of the ATF. 15 agents were wounded and Todd McKeehan, 28, Conway Lebleu, 30 and Robert Williams, 26 were On April 19th, 1993 with federal agents, the tragedy of Mount Carmel continued. David Koresh and at died by fire as he had willed. The confirmed dead included 17 children. (dramatic music)