Listen...listen to the ocean...we love to love to hear the waves smash the rocks...we The Oceans of the world are vast...they are Look at our earth, most of our earth is covered is covered with water called Oceans and Seas. The Oceans are very salty, we call it saline; salty and the Oceans of the earth are saline Ocean water...but you CAN swim in the Ocean burn your eyes! And you CAN SCUBA dive in the Ocean and explore Let's explore the Oceans of the world together. There are five major Oceans of the world, they each have a different name. They are; The Pacific Ocean...the Atlantic (also called the Antarctic Ocean) ...and the Let's learn a little about them in order The largest Ocean is called the Pacific Ocean. The Pacific Ocean is massive! Beginning from the coasts of Asia and Australia, and then up to the north where it meets the Ocean; the Pacific Ocean takes in a big big You'll find the islands of Polynesia in Tonga and a thousand other islands scattered At the bottom of the Pacific Ocean you'll The Mariana Trench. The Mariana Trench is a deep scar over fifteen earth and at the bottom of the Mariana Trench, Challenger Deep! It is over 36,000 feet deep! If you dropped the highest mountain on earth; would still be covered with over a mile of That's deep baby! The next largest Ocean is the Atlantic Ocean. Although the Atlantic is number 2...it is Like the Pacific Ocean, the Atlantic also to the Southern Ocean; and borders North and And then it reaches far across over to...Europe The island of Puerto Rico is in the Atlantic The Atlantic Ocean kind of looks like an "S" it separates the "Old World" of Europe of the Americas. Over the thousands of years, many thousands of ships have sunk in Atlantic. The Titanic hit an iceberg in the Atlantic Many ships still with valuable treasure are to be found! Ocean number three! The Indian Ocean...the boundaries of the Indian and the Southern Ocean. The Indian Ocean is the largest breeding ground But it is also the source for a large percentage be a great threat to the health of the Indian Let's consider then Southern Ocean...also encompasses the southern Continent of Antarctica Pacific, the Atlantic and the Indian Oceans. The worlds largest penguin species; the Emperor I say ice? YES! ICE! The Southern Ocean is cold! It's the coldest Ocean because of the sheet all the time! This brings us to our last-named Ocean...It there is no land but only ice and Ocean water The Arctic Ocean may be the smallest of our very large and during the warmer months some and during colder months the water freezes These are the five Oceans of the world. As you look out over these waters of the Ocean over the water and I can't see under the you may think nothing is going on down there! But the truth is...a lot IS going on in the There are volcanoes IN the Ocean! Volcanoes spewing lava! And LIFE...living things are in the Ocean! Hundreds of thousands of species of animals From the coldest waters of the Ocean to the and clean seawater to survive and thrive. Many varieties of animals make the Oceans From the tiny krill to the largest animal home in the Oceans. I don't think a Blue Whale would walk very Strange and freaky looking animals like Octopus amazing and intelligent creatures live in Fish of every shape and size and color; and They are down there! What do you think you'll find on the Ocean If you say; Gardens of spectacular coral reefs that grow and provide protection for smaller And deep...way deep down in the Ocean where creatures which provide their own bioluminescent AMAZING! Don't forget that mammals like Dolphins all depend on the Ocean. A vast variety of birds including Penguins they also live on and around the Oceans of All these wonderful creatures big and small waters of the Ocean to live...but the Oceans These Oceans we've learned about are becoming Plastics and paper and garbage we carelessly and becoming huge floating islands of trash! Wreaking havoc and causing problems for our Can anybody help protect the Oceans from being Can you? We must all do our part to protect these precious Raise your hands if you're going to be friend friends in the Ocean. I'm raising my hand right now. Are you?