I'll be totally honest with you, I am and interest this engine managed to generate, enthusiasm are there and they don't seem it's about time someone poured a big that wonderful youthful enthusiasm, [Music] I'll say it right off the bat, this is but there's many creative and interesting things that something has the potential to penetrate revolutionize anything. The first patent related to has been working extensively on developing but in all of this time we have never seen this not even in something with a very small, limited That's half a century. If development started something like, I then there would be some hope, because getting takes a lot of time. You have to do the research, the development, the testing. You need to find the money, the investors You have to prove the merit development of the conventional ICE. It's a lengthy, complicated, painful process But half a century? No. That tells us that we are not seeing &quot;But why? Why d4a? Why can't you see that it has zero has zero friction? It doesn't even need oil man? I want to see someone swap this in a Miata. I want to see a it ain't gonna happen? Because this engine creates three big problems. The problem that this engine solves is the friction of the piston skirt against the cylinder wall It solves this problem control arm or hinge, if you will. This hinge turns a pendulum motion, the kind of stuff you can see motion means that the piston is no longer free to boore and because it can no longer rock in the the piston skirt and the cylinder wall. But what between the skirt and the cylinder is not a major the Taurozzi engine still has piston rings. It needs mixture and the combustion within the combustion of friction than the friction between the piston source of friction because the piston skirt is constantly splashed and or sprayed on the obviously, friction. It's lubricating the the skirt between the skirt and the cylinder wall. That being exist between the piston skirt and the cylinder the major thrust side of the piston, which is the of rotation of the engine. This load occurs during position of the piston and the rod and the crack it acts on the piston normally, so it's pushing the greatest combustion pressure, during the greatest rod is at an angle. The the small end of the rod is it's right at the center under the combustion. its associated mass is offset. It is outside the combustion is essentially trying to do this. It's to flip over, as it does this, it takes the piston cylinder wall. It creates an increased load of this However,. oil is very good at resisting loads and if the can never break apart the oil and metal toetal source of friction does cause the engine to wear in occurs over the entire life of the engine, which is wear due to the friction between the skirt and long ago and it does not shorten the life of load of the piston skirt, the major thrust side keeping the piston in place. We now have two rigid a conventional engine. The rod can't do anything to doesn't happen. It keeps the Piston completely this hinge should also help with piston ring stabilizes the piston in the bore is essentially it as well as the piston rings themselves. However, it should help with friction and it should result in and the boore which will now be undisturbed by the Unfortunately, I can't give you any numbers that would quantify how Taurozzi engine and I can't give you numbers because a third-party scientific test that compares the These tests have never been done. numbers are claims. And one of these claims comes This is one of those AI voice videos by another video 3 months later which is also an pretty much the same claims as the first video, the inventor. But it is these two videos that have in the Taurozzi engine, it is not the inventor the engine around 11 years ago. His website videos that have brought up all this enthusiasm. most important claims from these videos which is occurs because we have reduced or completely &quot;although the most important thing is more power and fuel economy versus a conventional 45% of the total frictional losses of the engine three major sections, which is piston ring friction, Now the Taurozzi design doesn't really do anything about the Taurozzi hinge can magically completely eliminate all friction by 45%, does that mean that we have account for only 10 to 15% of the total losses frictional losses are 15%. Although the latest engines can do and frictional losses are 15%. If we completely the Taurozzi hinge we have eliminated only 45% of efficiency only by 6.75%. But of course it's not with our assumptions. The Taurozzi control arm does Of the 45% total piston friction, rings the wrist pin is the remaining 10%. Let's assume half because we got rid of the oil ring pack completely eliminate the skirt friction and we So, more realistically we reduce total friction by 21.25% are 15% then we improve efficiency by 3.2%. efficiency by 2.1%. So, 30% efficiency improvement? Not even close. It's more realistically somewhere between 3.2 and 2.1%. That's not bad? Every little about the price. But before I tell you about the to answer a more imminent question. And that is to achieve such a small efficiency improvement? doesn't just get rid of of the skirt friction, it also allows us to get rid of lubricating oil inside the engine completely, is the only lubrication element in the engine All the other lubrication sections in the engine, main bearings, rod bearings, wrist pin, camshafts, you name it All of these can be converted from which needs a constant pressurized film of oil on it, to prevent metal to metal contact a sealed bearing is a maintenance-free bearing it's sealed either by a rubber seal or a metal the bearing. Now sealed bearings are nice because your oil again, but they also suck at bearing I know &quot;bearing&quot; is in their name but the bearings that plain bearings with a nice pressurized film of oil this because the point of contact between a ball A single infinitely small point. In other a very small surface area with a large load we easily penetrate your skin even if you don't apply your skin even if you apply a lot of force. The The greater the pressure - the greater the wear. In covering the entire surface of the bearing and it a large surface area it's going to take an break oil apart and allow metal to metal contact. pretty much have plain bearings on them and you will find I don't know 125, 150 maybe 200 cc of displacement, combined with small loads. Now if we look inside a inside it and these replace the ball surface area is a full line instead of just a capacity and transmissions are exposed inside a transmission, they last the life of the So can we use those? Well, not really because the very minimum splash lubricated by transmission What I'm trying to say is that a sealed bearing with either balls or rollers or whatever inside cannot an engine and cannot hope to last the life of the around 300,000 km. If you want proof all These are big chunky bearings, sometimes even with a bearing this size inside an engine and also and a suspension assembly on their side to help this they never last, almost never last the life of the 140.000 km, some can maybe do more, but some are So yeah, to conclude removing oil from the engine and shortens the lifespan of the engine. On top of this, much more importantly, they are much larger in dramatically, if you add them everywhere, on the They increase dramatically the weight and the size of paying the price. Next up, engine balance. These the engine and moving around, they disturb engine it can balance out the big end of the rod and piston, but there's nothing that moves in a way this means that the the Taurozzi engine configuration where the hinges can balance each other out. configurations, even V engines. The hinges will the engine will run rougher. it will vibrate RPM, the maximum possible RPM of the engine. On added volume to the engine because you need this where you can then attach the hinges. And I think heavier than a traditional piston. Now there is a that because the piston now doesn't need a skirt, Again, no numbers to support this, no actual it intuitively like this the weight of the piston of the piston. Many pistons don't whereas the hinge intuitively to me, this further limits the RPM of the engine. And now for Yes, you can make a curved bore, definitely not impossible, Eduardo Taurozzi, he did make a curved bore. Now, I'm not sure how exactly it's done it's clear in the videos on his channel. There's just the curved effect is achieved, it's also not clear is said like he split the engine, welded it and refilling it and then used a curved boring machine&quot; definitely with a, let's say, a very large, very You can definitely machine a curved boore. or as risk-free. Not risk-free, but of a risk down bore. The risk is further increased by the we attach the hinges must be absolutely perfect shaft holes or the shaft itself, the space for the will result in a large change of the trajectory And now we don't have oil for any sort of margin for error. bit wrong we'll get contact between the piston definitely capable of being very very accurate so not as suitable for large scale mass production Because with these methods you can make dozens upon dozens of finish machining to do, and this is why if you look you're not going to find any part that has been fully CNC to be fully CNC machined, we can cast them and then but if you want to keep up with the casting, because Then you would need a great number, and a lot of space, CNC machines working simultaneously to keep up in a in a very large scale mass production. And Observe the cylinder bore, the curved cylinder bore. covers a greater distance than the other side of of the piston ring has to travel faster. This greater acceleration and that means that one side So now instead of uniformly moving the piston rings to twist and mangle them and this explains why in which is oiless medical air compressors, the piston We're not using any sort of conventional metals Because the oil ring that the Taurozzi engine is missing the oil elimination ring. And what it does is to remain past it. To remain above it. And then They ride on this tiny little film of oil which helps And it helps them deal with all the motions of the and then on top of this add crazy twisting lasting if they're made from a conventional Now, self-lubricating Teflon is acceptable in a But inside an actual engine it is the equivalent of a end here, that I must stress with great stressesness, is or that I want to downplay the life's work I very much genuinely and honestly admire this man perseverance. To take an idea from your mind and with basic tools, which he seems to have had at It ran and it worked and he drove it and in these medical compressors, so this is very most humans will achieve with their life. So, No doubt about it, very much admire what he The only thing that I'm commenting with with him is that this engine had some sort of He seems to think that, he tried to I think that this engine never had, and this a mass market vehicle application, due to all the Taurozzi pendulum engine, you can stop asking As always, thanks a lot for watching and I'll be seeing you soon with