Hi Everyone. I have stage four lung cancer, from the very bottom My first oncology appointment. He told me I had nine months to live. I have always been very aware of cancers. I've had a couple family members very like making sure my all my moles making sure I have breast exams, exams. Lung cancer was honestly the number one cancer because no one ever educated me No one. My result came through and it said and this just started to spiral in my head like, I don't understand? My name is Samantha m. So who am I? So Samantha is a super, super active outdoor adventurer. I love the outdoors, I love hiking, Anything to do with nature I also have a German Shepherd. He's nine years old. And then I have a husband called, Justin. I have been married for seven years. He is my absolute world and soul mate. Okay, then let him go. So I went on a women's trip to India, in March of this year. 20 of us. I'd never met them were going on for ten days, and, No issues whatsoever. And when I came back from the trip, you know, not even a big cough, and some chest pressure on my chest. And you know, the air And so a lot of people actually So I didn't think anything of it. But the chest pressure And two weeks after my trip, you know, 4 or 5 miles a day, So I went to urgent care and he listened to my chest to see what's going And it came back that my entire life not even partial, the entire lung. And it was fully collapsed. And he said, immediately. And, you know, oh, it's maybe something, some weird virus I contracted from India. So I went to the emergency room and put in a chest tube, And they ended up draining They did. They took that off for testing. And meanwhile they did multiple CT And, you know, the wonderful world we get notified of news And so even though I was in the hospital, I was getting information from scans And so, my result came through and it said And this just started to spiral I don't understand, the infectious disease doctor, came to me and started because they thought Because I lived in and traveled to lots of foreign countries. So they were very confused themselves, And unfortunately, on like day they were like, at a biopsy of your liver. One of the one of the lesions in there and your, fluid in your lungs. And it's looking to be more they couldn't but he was like, And, they were like, We'll wait for confirmation, obviously, an oncology appointment for you that's when my world just spiraled. Lung cancer was I thought I would never get, That nonsmokers could get lung cancer. I was like, oh, that's for smokers. And so to be told, you have cancer, let alone a cancer that you never even imagined was just off the charts for me So I was living in Missoula, Montana. My husband was stationed there And as soon as I got diagnosed, the wait just for the general oncologist, oncologist there, because it was such And so, that time period was awful. Just not knowing the unknown it was confirmed through the But, you know, I had no doctors to really bounce Nothing. And so, that's when my husband was like, but let's get you to a research hospital. So my husband, you know, was used to be a combat medic, in Iraq So he's seen a lot, and I had never seen him And when I got that diagnosis he went outside the hospital and just broke down and cried. Sorry. This is when I get emotional about it It was, that was really hard to see, than me receiving the news personally, because I know that when I'm gone, And he's the one that is still around. And because I was so young, it was just heartbreaking to me and necessarily be with him when we're 80 And so it's it's really hit him hard. He's been an incredible caregiver. He's been to every single appointment. He now handles the app for me I mean, he's I couldn't ask for a better caregiver. But I would say it's probably have more of an impact on him At that point, and not being, you know, familiar I didn't know what stage one versus stage I had no idea. So I genuinely was in this world of not knowing anything I had non-small cell lung cancer. I was spiraling on Google, In this time of diagnosis, looking at what stage I figured out I was stage four, And then the statistics of five year And, you know, And then I came across mutations and I was And then I saw all this different stuff And so when I went into that initial But the number one one was, test for genetic mutations? And he said, absolutely, You're good. So I learned a lot about mutations It really was just this two week and fear and concern and thinking. I didn't have long to live, honestly. And my first oncology I had nine months to live, which I hope to This and just disclaimer this was before No one should be told how long they have to live like that. It's not helpful. It doesn't help anyone, and it set my mind back a long way in terms of, I can, you know, I can do as well as I can for him to tell me It's 45 minutes to the Huntsman Center, so let's let's see And within a month, They have been so supportive and my work have also been so supportive. And so I'm very grateful for that, people are not in that situation, that are young What I will say is, number one is to advocate for yourself constantly And so I was pretty I don't know if aggressive in messaging the Huntsman, saying, The general in college just referred me. This is the letter. So I was lucky or fortunate or I don't know what the right word is, oncologist at the Huntsman, who's very hard to get, within a week. So, and I don't know if that's forceful with my, with me trying to get in they looked at my chart and saw how It's probably a combination. But they they got me in very quickly and they wanted to do So they did a CT scan. I had not had a Pet scan at that point. So they also did a Pet scan. And then they said were sending biomarker testing of the blood one, and then were also going to take a sample and submit that, they were pretty adamant that they did not want to start any treatment So I believe the blood biomarker testing results took about two weeks. Meanwhile, my lung so I was having to get drained on I was still active. Nothing was stopping me. I was also hiking at 10,000ft elevation There were no issues there. I was just tired a lot. I felt very, very tired. That was probably my number so my biomarker testing came back and, I think it came up through the app again and it said Her2 and it's said, primary treatment. And then there was like a blank space and secondary. There was something there, right. That was like a circle and a green check And I had never heard of her It wasn't on any of the sites It wasn't even on the other mutation list So I'm like, what on earth is this? And and what am I going to do with this? And honestly, I had been part of groups that talked about EGFR and people were doing so well as young And I was just like, this is it. I keep on getting hit over and over again And this is the final straw. And I really thought because there was no primary I spoke to her within 24 hours and she spent about an hour with me What was on the horizon what was currently under clinical trials, And so I went from absolute turmoil in 24 hours of thinking I have the worst prognosis to oh wow, And so that changed my entire attitude And I know a lot of her two patients, on that piece of paper back, It doesn't tell you about what is coming. And so people are naive to it unless they're educated by other people. So my oncologist, he's incredible. He called me right away this is not what I was expecting either. I really thought you were, But this is what we have. And he said, and he was. And he was trying to find silver linings He was like, yes, every three weeks to get treatment. But, your mutation works with immunotherapy. Your mutation works with But he was giving me some hope, I am also fortunate where my coworker, co-worker's Ironically very, very fortunate. Very weird how that all works. But, he's been an incredible resource and, like, get information Is this the right path for her maybe my oncologist So having those two resources One day chemo 11,000ft. So he laid out what I mean, the therapy I would be on, I, which actually split chemo by a week, instead of combining them And he was he thought that I would Meanwhile, the Her2 expert about an amazing clinical trial they were looking for people And so I, was told about that here did not know about that trial. And so I brought that up with him, and he was kind enough look into the statistics, And he said, at the end of the day, you would like to proceed with. But this is my thoughts. And so he was really leaning towards just because, I mean, a therapy And the clinical trial was still early And knowing, you know, what And so I also didn't want to wait right. So a clinical trial in the hospital involves involves flying, I just wanted to start treatment. So we decided on traditional chemo started that within a week. I'm responding exceptionally well. I have 55% reduction across the board. He said, I'm like the top five response So like, I'm responding extremely well where I don't have that many side effects, I have a couple of days of low energy, So I have been able to just live my life, work, do my thing, and, you know, and this is a weird thing to say patient, but, you know, chemotherapy You know, especially right now, chemo and immunotherapy are awful and And I get very upset about that and it has done and I haven't felt this well in years. And it makes me think, like, even though I didn't have very apparent I would take naps during the day. I would be exhausted I lost 5 pounds There were very subtle signs I didn't look well. And so I'm feeling great right now. And it's it's like a double edged sword but the chemo and immunotherapy my cancer burden Samantha, again. There is a lot of hope. Our mutation is not an immediate death sentence by any means. Just because we don't have does not mean it's the end of the world There are options out there, that there are targeted through the clinical trial statistics work exceptionally well. Is invaluable to know. Especially being like, an ultra fit, healthy person who, you know, you see on social media, a lot about if you eat healthy and you do exercise, or it's a very low chance And I don't like that at all. It makes me very angry and very upset then that makes and doing all the right things, that they And so I think it's critical that people are aware It doesn't care if you're fit and healthy, And that's a fact. And so the reason why I say that is I think it's even more important to listen to your body, be in touch with changes. And I've been shouting this Is that, Don't wait. Go and be an advocate for yourself something is wrong and your doctor says, Well, monitor it, go get a second opinion or push, push and push and be the person that maybe but be that person and get the answers Because at the end of the day, doctors they're not going to get everything right. And you have to be an