In a world first in Australia where Parliament there has given a green light to a bill banning social media for users under the age of 16. Anybody out there who's got kids Listen up. The bill passed comfortably in the Senate with backing from both the gover and opposition members. The law includes potential fines for social media companies if they don't take adequate step to prevent under 16 year olds from using their services. Andrew Wilkie is a professor of human b and technology at the University of Oxford and he joins us now from London. And I've got so many questions o but first and foremost, how does the Australian Government e to be able to enforce this legis and what are they what are they expecting of these social media companies and how are they going to police Yeah, I don't know. I mean, I don't think anyone knows the a to that question. There really isn't a particularly clear plan here about how you would enforce something like age targets on us We know that the technology to estimate ages is fundamentally flawed, and I don't think anybody wants uploading their passports or their personal information, their driving licenses to hop on Instagram. We know that there are huge problems around the use of social media and kids under the age of 18. We know there is. Let's just talk about what what some of those issues are and why it is that Australia has made this mov Yes, I mean, there are some pretty concrete t you know, dangers of the Interne and dangers of social media. These are things that are very b Some of these things are like distracted driving. You know, thousands of people are killed e in the United States and an EU in Australia from distracted dri using social media literally in front of the faces. And obviously these websites are for people who want to sexually exploit you and groom them. And there are some pretty dark communities in terms of things like self-har and eating disorders. But it really, if nothing in thi actually helps young people or empowers families to kind of tackle those kind of really tough onlin harms, this is much more of a fe good measure to like kind of try to put this back on platforms. But but really, there's no way for it to be effective. What are some of the other ways that other governments around the world are trying to tackle t We know that that, you know, there is a lot of harm to teenagers from social media. We also know and I mean many, many teenagers will will agree t they wish they had no access to social med but they do, of course, and others will say that there's you know, there's a lot of good that comes from social media how other governments trying to Well, so other countries have tried ac you know, versions of what the Australians are about to emb South Korea actually turned the Internet off for all underage teens for more than a decade. And, you know, they found that none of the technology actually when it did work. There was no savings to wellbein you know, no improvements to sleep, no changes to wellbeing or schoo And ultimately, it was shown to be unconstitutio In China, they tried something s with limiting young people to 3 hours a day of 3 hours a week, sorry, a video game play And the best data that we have out of that shows it's found. I'm much more optimistic about places like here in the UK where we're actually listening to young people. We're listening to researchers like myself in terms of making online environments safer as opposed to just kind of sticking our head in the sand and just pretending like this social media thing is just going to go away. Hmm. So what are you suggesting as a an improvement here? I mean, and should this should this even be in the sort of public sphere? I mean, obviously, governments are there to help pr but, you know, how much of this should be on social media companies themselves? Yes. I think there needs to be a huge burden needs to be placed on social media firms. First of all, that they need to be able to sha They need to be forced to share that they have on young people, not with advertisers, but with researchers, so that we can actually unpick t and the benefits of these online platforms. Second, I mean, I think it's crazy that the tax that these firms pay when they p it goes to filling potholes, you know, and then kind of, you know, social, you know, different services. It should go to actually underst and supporting young people, finding them where they are. And then absolutely, we need ethical design codes. We need to be able to hold tech to account when they do when young people do fall through the cracks, kind of setting in 16 setting a ban at 16. It what it does is it actually absolves tech platforms of responsibility. If something bad happens on a pl they're going to say and a young person say uses a VP or they sneak onto a platform, s they're going to say, Well, it's not our fault. You know, we put in the best technologies that exist and they don't need to actually make their platforms safer or better backend of 2024. And of course, Elon Musk has tied himself to the hip of t president elect, who will be inaugurated in Ameri on January the 20th. So earlier this month, Elon Musk posted on about this very legislation in Australia saying seems like a backdoor way to control access to the Internet by all Australia Is this fear by social media lea something that could happen? Well, I'm not sure. I mean, a broken clock is right twice a day. But but but no, I mean, I, I think that there are real huma rights implications for this. You know, depending on how it's implemente You know, you know, really, you Australia is a signatory to the UN Charter of the Rights of the Child. And, you know, we young people have a right to informati like upwards of 60% of young peo in Australia get their news from social media Our children have a right to pla and and young people play through these online platfo And so, you know, in Korea, ultimately their laws were repea These bans, these limits repeale because they violated the Korean Constitution. And I really don't see I mean Ellen's right here and and if you read the statemen and and now they're pretty clear that actual nothing in this legislation is going to make a single kid sa This is the equivalent of taking your shoes off at the It doesn't make flying any safer And this is also this is well, this is theater. This is wellbeing. Theater.