The vast oceans of the video game Subnautica life -- some friendly, and some deadly. While of Subnautica are amazing even when they're biology, bizarre behavioral patterns, and creatures of the series before on my channel, can get the full, documentary-style experience the deepest abyss, we'll explore the biology the role they play in their larger ecosystems. see what awaits us under the surface... Beginning that stable conditions have led to a region lifeforms we can spot are the Peepers... or dinner-plate like eyes. These easily identifiable of discerning colors not just in clear waters combined with their surprising speed, means at the bottom of the food chain. That distinction unfortunate looking Garryfish. Docile herbivores easy prey for most anything else in these the oceans of earth, need something near the common herbivores on 4546B include the Bladderfish, translucent bladder, and the unusual Boomerang, a mouth full of sharp teeth to break down of the Safe Shallows is dominated by one particularly large enough to swim through, and despite Giant Coral Tubes, they don't look much have evolved to filter nutrients that flow size and abundance, it's a strategy that tubes is the elegant Rabbit Ray -- the first undulating motion that the Rabbit Ray uses to the underwater movements of various types of the Rabbit Ray that gives it its curious features are its twin orange appendages that tangentially resemble the ears of rabbits, with an otherwise dissimilar terrestrial herbivore. caves. While exploring one as I gathered this fish exploded in my face. That short-lived oddity that is difficult to study due to its anything gets close. The Crashfish is defending its home. While an animal exploding to defend evolve, there's a model of such behavior species of ants have been observed erupting is under threat. Truly, nature is highly unusual caves, the far less bothersome Shuttlebugs challenging creatures to make sense of: with into fin-like tentacles. Despite looking slightly are too small to be a threat to most organisms, products of the ecosystem around them. Leaving is waiting for us: the Gasopods. These rotund, have a curious defense that is all their own. the Gasopods will nonetheless release a deadly recommend ingesting. Chemical analysis of comes from the bulbous appendage at the end it's possible they even use these clouds the Gasopods are the largest creatures in of the proverbial iceberg when it comes to Forest, we'll find a radically different Here, the light is low thanks to the high hidden ecosystem, just like kelp-heavy regions of Creepvine Seeds cast shadows across the myself wondering just what might be hidden the largest predator that makes its home in possess a series of dorsal ridges to help is likely adapted for ensnaring fish, as it of real-life gharials. Yet at the edge of rather oddly. This Stalker is picking up various to drop them after a short period. This behavior the stalkers seem to simply have a fondness might seem, the barracuda -- a predatory to shiny objects because it's evolved to to prey on. And when one considers the common materials makes perfect sense. In the murky hoopfish light up the dark with their vibrant reveals they get their name from their antennae, heads and bends around their tails -- forming such intense and varied colors, however, is last fish of the Kelp Forest we'll see is herbivore that appears to 'hover' on the strange appendages, the Hoverfish glides on to any other fish on the planet. It's surprising actually be a distant relative of the nondescript derived form of the bladderfish's primitive that could only exist in the Kelp Forest. gives way to an alien Grassy Plateau. Here, with Blood Grass, as the seafloor is too deep space, even larger lifeforms are on the prowl... cloud of sand is gathering. Be cautious--as a creature with a huge, fanged mouth lashes a distinctive hunting strategy. The Sand Shark unsuspecting prey swims by: ending the chase body armor and six rows of fearsome teeth, so effective. Alien as this behavior may seem, in swimming along the sandy floor near the don't possess the extreme tunneling abilities Sand Shark's brutal ambushes swims overhead. most angles, but glimpse one from above and cyclopean eye. Closer analysis of the Spadefish single eye allows the spadefish to spot predators it normally hides among sea grasses like many onto the Grassy Plateaus, however, it is hopelessly what appear to be tiny floating islands hang these chunks of rock are all suspended by Floaters. Transparent, gelatinous blobs, floaters silly looking. Analysis of these creatures living in symbiosis, which we can compare floater's ability to suspend such heavy Swimming close by the floating islands is Reginald. The entire back end of these oddly-named and the fin's bright coloration appears believe the Reginald filters algae and other forward-facing orifices. While this is a noteworthy demands our attention. In the abyss beyond we've yet to glimpse calls out through the organism that exceeds lengths of 220 feet Swimming closer to these gentle giants, we yet to glimpse. Possessing a thick exoskeleton, Adult Reefbacks can support mini-ecosystems and small fish. And nearby this adult is its is not yet ready to support an ecosystem like just watching these creatures drift in their with complex sounds that suggest a surprising low, it's time to venture deeper into the of the Dunes. In this fast, empty expanse, These great fissures on the sea floor release like those that support life in the depths the vents that concerns me... A terrifying strikes out in the abyss. This aggressive the front of its maw to drag in large prey. hungry Reaper Leviathan can take down almost suggests the deep roar emitted by the Reaper hear it, the reaper can see you. Thankfully, I watch the deadly leviathan vanish into the work for the day... The sun has now set on as in the low light, various regions of the bioluminescence. Even the Reefback pod from This eerie beauty suggests the many hidden beyond the grassy plateaus, huge Tree Mushrooms appearance, mushroom trees are actually a In the shade of these ancient giants, a new are Jellyrays: an ethereal ray species with translucent lifeforms are quite common in a sign we're getting closer to the deeper Beyond the safety of the Mushroom Forest, the luminescent Bulb Bushes dominate the landscape, environment thanks to a highly advanced system volcanic geysers launch boiling liquid and water. The extreme heat from these geysers An ominous light flickers in the murk. The covered with glowing prongs that produce zaps use electric discharges to intimidate other deadly shock. Such living batteries might electric eel on earth might help demonstrate Electric eels use disc-shaped cells packed electric currents -- as incredible as that prongs contain similar cells: although the extreme. A series of screeches announces the aggressive and territorial carnivores, it's thickly-armored exoskeletons which give them larger predators, but also other Bonesharks. suggests Bonesharks might share a distant our last outing. If so, it's a fearsome to prepare for the next leg of my journey, about the way it looks is truly hypnotic, then it bites my nose. That is a Mesmer, a while its four fins are folded up, but unfurled to distract prey while it goes in for the big to be swallowed up -- but this is one it's time to venture further into the unknown. deeper into the uncharted interior of planet contain entire ecosystems of their own. And Here, among the stalagmites, grow Jellyshrooms: might be distantly related to the tiny acid of the Jellyshrooms shine the Biters: small prey. The antenna on their forehead seems at first glance, but the Biter's antenna It contains olfactory organs that help it words, the Biter can smell its prey anywhere becomes prey itself. Winding through the cave apex predator of this environment. What makes but its ability to hide in plain sight. The the local Jellyshrooms: using their hollow ambush prey. In behavior and appearance, the Worm: an unattractive predator that also ambushes to keep an eye out... Elsewhere on the seafloor, hours navigating the cave system, I surface by... daylight? I realize I've stumbled 4546B: dry land. This tiny island is the peak cave system, and it's one of the few places life. Scuttling on the beach are Cave Crawlers. have evolved to crawl along the sides of cave adapt to this fleeting landmass relatively they possess a gas exchange membrane to breathe lungs. Soaring overhead is a lifeform that This is a Skyray: an avian creature that has, its wings give it some resemblance to aquatic genetic link. Instead, the Skyray appears earlier than most other species on the planet, In any case, it seems we've now seen all On one end of the island is a tremendous artificial be the work of advanced extraterrestrials from afar. But did they come to study the In any case, it seems this planet's greatest To the south, the seafloor plunges lower than Here, orb-like blue plants called anchor pods membrane -- only staying in place due to a herd of Sea Treader Leviathans. These vast on which to graze. The thunderous nature of experience. Perhaps the most curious thing three legs -- something almost never glimpsed is actually an elongated snout, used to siphon maintain balance. As alien as this might seem, with elongated fins that they use similarly the Sea Treaders are migrating, so it's Reef, caverns take us further into the abyss. butcher prey with its ten limbs. Swim close bio-electric discharge: which has the properties to have massive brains, analysis suggests is actually their stomach, which the Crabsquid result, they seem attracted to light sources, submarine. This turns out to be a good call, If there are other creatures like the Crabsquid a little larger... For the next perilous leg submarine: a vehicle that should be able to Below the deep Grand Reef awaits a surreal Lost River, a region covered in alkaline brine stream. Brine pools also exist in Earth's high salinity. Best not to get too close... Rays. Relatives of the Jellyrays from the the Ghost Rays have become almost completely the red of their internal organs. Elsewhere spindly relatives of the Cave Crawlers -- stride unsettling forms of life... In the central Or rather, it would be if this leviathan were to a colossus far larger than any that currently that its ribs have become part of the Lost lucky this unknown genus seems to have gone River Prowlers. These aggressive, transparent like vengeful ghosts. Even more frightening, attacking, allowing them to pull in prey. in the dark. But there is a strange beauty cove under the central chamber, the brine around a massive tree. This tree appears to around a giant bio-luminescent egg. While of an egg that size might not be... To find from this egg, we must venture into the nightmarish of the habitable region for most fauna lives, us. These aggressive monsters are Ghost Leviathans, Analysis of their jaws suggest they feed on their massive sizes -- although they also larger. Time to head back the way we came... but that's not the only strange thing in structure resemble the one on the island. the Warpers -- who possess a mind-bending and vanish into portals. This is not the ability with an artificial creation. Searching for we can see the unfinished artificial body evolve naturally, and are a creation of extraterrestrials. message, it seems these alien architects came for a disease, and the Warpers are their artificial living architects on 4546 B, it appears that lab, they've left behind the egg of a curious recharge my submarine, I hatch the egg and a Cuddlefish: a friendly, rotund little creature and curiosity. I've also found it's quite possible this creature has been imported from to be extra friendly. It's possible the we do with dogs. It's tempting to stay with help but feel that in the abyss, there are the Lost River, the landscape blazes with the Lava Zone: the deepest environment of forms of life have evolved: like the Crimson mottled coloring to help it blend in with the Boomerang with a beautiful glowing tailfin. Larva, a grub-like creature that feeds off learned this fact when I found one stuck to energy. While this behavior is somewhat annoying, creature are truly remarkable. On the molten skeletons belong to Reaper Leviathans. It predator so large it can drag Reaper Leviathans Basking in the red glow of the molten rock small to be our culprits, but they're nonetheless cover their bodies with hardened lava like more extreme than anything on Earth, Scaly this channel before -- can survive in volcanic body like medieval armor. However, Lava Lizard end of the Lava Zone lurks a massive chamber. voyage shakes the cavern. We've found our Leviathan. Possessing both arms and tentacles, in length. Sea Dragons get their name from and expel them at their adversaries like they're deadly lifeform doesn't notice me... no rocks the cyclops submarine. As a result, Out of options, I have to abandon ship. Luckily, deep sea mechanical walker that should make it's a bit of a drop to the bottom. But Dragon Leviathan thinks its foe has been vanquished. mysterious building. With some difficultly, locked in a containment facility, the largest a Sea Emperor Leviathan, and although it appears in no way hostile. Like real-world baleen diet consists solely of microorganisms. While I am unable to get a proper scan of it, it telepathically -- as it told me of its plight. architects in the hopes it could provide a is in strict violation of the intergalactic of this intelligent creature, I agree to take Watching the first moments of baby Sea Emperors' after all the biological marvels I've glimpsed end of its lifespan, and informs me it won't happy I can help their babies live on in freedom. winding journey... With the Sea Emperor babies of this region of Subnautica is at its end. Sector Zero is a region of extremely low temperatures, to the cold. Beginning on the ice floats above home in this region where land meets the sea. waddling Pengwings. Pengwings are small, predatory on land. When a Pengwing dives underwater, tail allows them to twist through the currents Pengwings are carnivores, and their beak opens set of teeth. In their body shape and behavior, with Earth penguins -- with both species ways. And on any ice-float with Pengwings, form of Pengwings who never stray far from Penglings are extremely awkward on land. But make up for in endless enthusiasm. And while alarming fanged mouth, they're remarkably gently lifted up. As nice as it is to briefly to disrupt their natural routines... As we warm region awaits just under the ice floats. by Coral Bridges, great arches formed from 600 feet, or 200 meters in length. Bioluminescent which a scan suggests are actually a separate structure. But why would the coral bridges answer lies in a phenomenon known as Thigmotropism plants in response to touch. Thigmotropism up poles, and it's the likely reason the to another... Just beyond these coral bridges, for predators with its massive yellow eyes. seas, Arctic Peepers' scales have evolved the ice. Other familiar herbivores also swim the vibrant hoopfish. Together, these species food chain for the larger, less familiar creatures I've reached a region known as the Sparse thick ice shelves, and receives little direct hazardous ice formations known as Brinicles Brinicles frequently shatter and crash to Arctic seems, some truly remarkable species called a Brinewing. With its rotund form and an ineffectual herbivore. But the Brinewing a rapid-fire torrent of a supercooled saline encase its prey in ice. A scan suggests the to produce this supercooled brine from the as this might seem, the Earth Archerfish can from their specialized mouths... and are remarkably have very different survival strategies. Like herbivore with a strange hole in the center of the tiny, guppy-sized tropical holefish you can actually swim through the hole at hole? A scan suggests the gel-like interior their DNA doesn't match that of the Holefish... spot a tiny lifeform swimming alongside the like a bee colony around a hive. These are to make their nests inside the hole of the all costs -- and even provide them with food. of a mutualistic partnership -- one of the Holefish has evolved to be remarkably unintelligent: the complex ecosystem that supports its every sand gives way to the teeming Arctic Kelp polar current, casting light into the depths plants are close relatives of the green variety although the chemical composition of the polar the fronds, familiar fish like the boomerang unfamiliar fish swim here also. These extremely and have perhaps the most peculiar method of siphons on the side of their body, Spinner a glance, its bizarre body the plan somewhat But ultimately, the Spinner Fish is one of spot an incredible lifeform. I'm just about scanner from my hands. Frustrated, I give waves the stolen scanner to mock me. Thankfully back. Finishing the scan, I discover this remarkable, with both a developed brain and It's called a Sea Monkey -- a nickname those Sea Monkeys, however, the Sea Monkey as an actual primate -- meaning it's the But given time, the Sea Monkeys might have they evolve to be less annoying... With the to regroup on the surface. Sticking my head are engulfed in a dangerous polar storm. Looking from earlier might be in serious danger. Upon the Pengwings unbothered by the weather, simply Truly, Pengwings are intriguing creatures. to me that there's much I still have to don't want to disrupt them with my presence. alternative, less conspicuous method of observation. hopefully be able to keep an eye on the Pengwing my expedition across Sector Zero. I'm uncertain this robot as one of their own... but the as I can, I deploy the robot. Taking control Pengling into the midst of the flock. It's... don't seem particularly bothered by its is fooling them, it doesn't appear to disrupt under its watchful eye, and head deeper into sea, the mysterious Lilypad Islands hang in In truth, these floating chunks of rock are of plant that define this ecosystem. Giant to stand on their leafy tops without fear swims in the lilypads' shadows that make the hilariously named Noot Fish. With its snout, the Noot fish can easily pass as a is soon swallowed whole. The Noot Fish's lined with barb-like teeth it uses to envelop resembles that of the Sarcastic Fringehead out. But there are bigger predators here than predator that scours the depths with its ghostly bony jaw, they feed on just about anything to attack via ambush from above or below. deadly, Brute Sharks aren't particularly I might be on the menu... Closer to the surface, nearer, the edges of my vision blur, and I always been that color? Everything feels... wears off, and with a clear head, I understand the Lily Paddler, possesses the unique ability patterns on its colorful appendages. It's a creature like a Lily Paddler which is otherwise make my head hurt. A shadow passes overhead. its mouth to a tremendous size and swallows This is a Glow Whale, and while they're they're thankfully quite gentle. At almost the first Leviathan class organism I've intelligent one. A scan of the Glow Whales capable of bioluminescence, most notably around their horns. Careful not to startle it, I a faint glow. It's difficult to interpret to send a message. In any case, the Glow Whale rejoin its pod, I wish I could stay with this sets, there's one last region I need to there are telltale signs that a permanent Dry land is so scarce on this ocean planet of lifeforms might live further inland. We'll a narrow canyon, I find strange plant-animal These are Thermal Lilies, organisms that spend its energy, but also turn to track my movement and thanks to the thermal radiation they've of heat in Sector Zero's frigid interior. me... Beyond the canyon, a snowy landscape I have an alternate method of transportation. land-based expeditions. Zooming over the arctic At these speeds, I should be able to chart later, I spot a hairy creature in the distance. Putting the Snowfox in reverse, I discover After several near misses, I back away to was a Snow Stalker, and while it nearly sank at the discovery of a terrestrial land animal bulk, the Snow Stalker has converged on a curious about the lineage of such a lifeform. is actually a distant relative of the fully region. While these two species diverged a signs of their relation in the shape of their genetic ancestry. Speaking of which, a short appears to be its cub playing in the snow. this baby Snow Stalker is far less aggressive onward, I reach an icesheet marked by jagged, as the Arctic Spires, and it's home to a ice. Seconds later, a massive, serpentine me out with a swipe from its massive horn. Worm. At over three hundred feet, or 90 meters, and by far the largest creature I've seen through an exothermic chemical reaction -- allowing on. Time to make a fast exit. Speeding away its cub from earlier fleeing beside me. We the Ice Worm around, I think I might put off the sun sets overhead, I check in to find of the flock, and has done an excellent job Together, my pengling bot and I sit and watch comes a final surprise. The sky is lit up Borealis in the northern latitudes of earth. are a result of disturbances in the magnetosphere they have the same origin on planet 4546B. can make one feel a little isolated in the me, I don't feel truly alone. A transmission up a mysterious communication... but from The mysterious transmission is emanating from Deep Twisty Bridges. Diving into these alien coral bridges that spiral throughout this transformed all life that swims in the gloom. the depths. A subspecies of the hoopfish, and possess rib-like markings that give them deep-sea fish becoming transparent is present the Barreleye Fish -- an animal that possess it to look upwards and spot its preferred animal that would seem right at home in the isn't a carnivore, so despite its haunting are genuine dangers here. A huge predator unexpected speed, it rushes in and attempts to avoid by prying its jaws open. The predator into a crevasse it can't reach. That terror aggressive fauna species that is the apex its terrifying burst of speed comes from two jet propulsion. Through this adaptation, the the most formidable aspects of deep-sea squids is a deadly amalgamation I'll have to keep the source of the transmission. Staying close catches my eye. Swimming in for a closer look, and pulls me towards a mouth-like opening. releases its tentacle and I swim out of range. a plant at all, but a highly unusual form into the terrain, camouflaging itself among explorers -- with its adhesive tendrils when of mobility, this strategy seems to be highly must always stay alert. Elsewhere on the sea near the signal's source. This ruined fragment the tropics, which belonged to a group of had perished... but with the signal beckoning At last, I reach a mysterious undersea facility. voice urges me to hurry. Entering a central been coming from this cube-shaped computer. who, thousands of years before, had stored through the cube, the architect explains he the last of his kind. Wanting to help a fellow consciousness to my field computer and take accepts, and warns me to... brace for transfer? have been lost in translation... Awakening voice quite clearly... and learn this is because It was an honest mistake, as Architects don't the body. While this is an intriguing revelation an unanticipated mental roommate... Returning use our combined knowledge to continue to but along the way we'll gather the material can transfer into. He tells me his designation Picking up where Alan's research left off, West Arctic. Here, great icebergs float above a profound sense of scale. And among these through the blue, is an animal that is difficult it's not clear what sort of lifeform we're in fact, an Arctic Ray, the first of many plan has clearly diverged from Earth rays, two, the Arctic Ray is a highly agile lifeform... top predator of the West Arctic. This is a that spends half its time on ice floats above ecological niche similar in many respects towards humans, even showing acute curiosity Alan's analysis suggests their fourteen This unusually high number of flippers resembles from Earth's Cambrian Period who similarly deeper into the West Arctic waters, what appear at us. This is, in fact, a colony of Eye Jellies, hemispheric eye on the tops of their bodies. live remarkably passive lives, drifting slowly mind to other species. Alan warns me that shock if we swim too close, however, so we'll West Arctic icebergs, we notice an entrance ice caught in the afternoon sun resembles this ethereal cave, a strange egg appears Alan recognizes, and it seems about ready the shallows, after some time, this creature be a Trivalve, and much like the Cuddlefish and intelligent creature that is quite a fan naturally inquisitive creature is made of the shell of an earth Nautilus in its shape. the Trivalve, but Alan reminds me we still the journey will be perilous indeed. Luckily, to aid in the voyage. This is a Sea Truck, go lower into the crushing depths of Sector Sea Truck, we venture into the vast biome an area known as the Thermal Spires, is marked structures are formed from dissolved minerals home to all kinds of remarkable life. Gliding Fish. Defined by their unusual, crescent-shaped more graceful herbivores in Sector Zero. A they gather in schools numbering in the thousands. creature paddles by. This vicious-looking, covered in sharp spines. Snapping wildly, As it turns out, the contrarian Cryptosuchus than its bite. While it appears fearsome, to aid in heat absorption among thermal vents. try and scare off something a bit smaller... blue of a biome known as the Tree Spires beckons. flora that grow on the sides of tree-like the equally distinctive Discus Fish ungulates highly unusual, and it seems to contain strange this green color comes from symbiotic algae-like that provide the Discus Fish with food. Strange Earth also photosynthesize using algae that much sunlight here in the depths for plant part of its lifecycle in a brighter region we can spot a teardrop-shaped Arrow Ray. This triangular head, which it can tilt to perform Arrow Ray's fins grow sharp, talon-like up -- meaning the Arrow Ray certainly isn't of our submarine. Without warning, it shrieks mandibles, pulling us towards its gullet. out of the deadly grip. That leviathan class grows over 130 feet, or 40 meters in length. exoskeleton that grows in overlapping plates, pressure. Since the Chelicerate are so aggressive species to study up close. Fascinating as any more of them. At the very bottom of the is waiting. This is a Ventgarden, a stationary hydrovents and consumes 100% of the nutrients meters, the Ventgarden is, by far, the largest in Earth's Oceans that resemble Ventgardens bodied entities, which, like the Ventgardens, working in tandem. But what's most incredible of plants it supports within its hollow, bell-shaped would be safe to enter this environment ourselves. up towards the light, and at last emerge within supports aquatic flora on branching platforms metals emitted by the vents below. Exploring downright magical experience... But the unknown than ever before, we've reached the edge by total darkness, Alan is starting to get he seems to be right. A huge Chelicerate emerges as the one from the Tree Spires. This pale it's not alone. We've stumbled into a can. I don't think either of us plan on to the safety of the research base, I have, of an upgrade. As it turns out, having an can be quite useful. And while Alan still things like music, or why I start every morning mapped much of Sector Zero. Yet a deep scan coming from a large ice cave we've yet to Sector Zero, across the frigid tundra. At enormous, frozen creature encased in a cave entombed here for thousands of years, as Alan was a researcher here long ago. Since this way to study it is to drill into the ice. foot, I'm able to determine the lifeform of its time on land -- something unusual suggests an era in the distant past where like this one roamed across it. In any case, is now long dead. I think. At long last, we to fabricate Alan's new body. The only problem such a compatible vessel is located in a region are the deepest biome of them all, and the refractive crystals mean any scans of the telling what else is down there... Navigating a strange beauty. And equally strange lifeforms lifeform that spends much of its time hiding The Triops stand out biologically, however, system. In nature, a lifeform evolving three but it's not altogether unheard of. Artemia two eyes mounted on flexible stalks and a of their head. So, the diminutive Triops is crust, we've arrived at the Fabricator Caves: a high concentration of the element Beryllium To brave this extreme geochemical environment, walker that kept me safe on the last stages the ocean floor, I spot a small crustacean not particularly worried, until it launches a pint-sized predator which is a heavy-hitter thrust forward at close to the speed of sound the Rock Puncher is similar to the precocious possess spring-loaded biological hammer-clubs of a bullet, giving the Mantis Shrimp the And the Rock Puncher is not different. Time We're now very close to the Fabrication cavern. A huge Leviathan grips my Prawn Suit smacking it with my prawn-suit's arms, the Backing into a narrow gap, it seems the leviathan was a Shadow Leviathan, which at almost 200 predator of Sector Zero. It's black, elongated a giant eel. Analysis suggests its bioluminescent phytoplankton that draw in unwary fish, and lucky I was able to escape such a terrifying I notice my Prawn Suit is leaking from its hope now is to reach the Fabrication facility the familiar green glow of Architect technology destination. Heading inside, I find a facility inside. Putting in the materials we've gathered, Activating the final sequence, Alan and I body is composed of the DNA of 27 different well -- so it should be quite the upgrade. so much effort, it's almost surreal to reach he looks a bit like a glowing purple centaur... him. With Alan now out of my mind and in his to continue his research. We both return to going back to his home planet via Warp Gate, living. It is a somewhat bittersweet feeling another researcher -- in particular an alien on Planet 4546B once more, I consider all nerve-wracking dangers to unexpected allies, at last, the time has come for me to depart waiting for us among the stars...? If you please follow and support creature designer thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, and hitting the notification icon to stay in the next video.