Translator: Esther Lee Ralph Waldo Emerson once wrote: &quot;If there is any period is it not the age of revolution; when the old and the new and admit of being compared; when the energies of all men when the historic glories of the old by the rich possibilities of the new era? This time, like all times, if we know what to do with it.&quot; If we know what to do with it. Which reminds me of a story that happened I lived in Sydney, Australia, I was asked to go because I was the general and I learned that was actually on the date So I was very concerned, &quot;Look, first children are never (Laughter) So I'm going to be gone just one night, and I'm going to be there for one night - and I'm going come back, and very likely, as the doctor told us, you're not going to have the baby I went up there, and I was still so I was talking with my new boss, And Rodo had this very, and he always smoked cigarettes. And we're going through and right in the middle at 11:45 at night, as we sat in the bar, the phone rings. That's my wife ... And I said, &quot;Is everything okay?&quot; She said, &quot;I just had my water break.&quot; And I thought, &quot;Oh no.&quot; I'm in Cairns. There's no way that I'm going to be able in that amount of time, because the doctors always say from the time the water breaks So I went to my boss - and I said, &quot;Is there some way because my wife has just gone into labor.&quot; He said, while he smoked his cigarette, (Inhales) &quot;Give me ten minutes.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;I'll prepare a flight plan So I run back to my room; I threw it in a suitcase - I remember I still have the remote control that actually went flying and I ran downstairs, I'm standing and about twenty minutes later, he finally leisurely walks out &quot;Can you believe (Laughter) So we run, literally run. We get in a taxi, we go to the airport, this is in Port Douglas - turn on when you actually have So you hit the button, &quot;I need you to check the wing, check the condensation,&quot; and I'm like, &quot;I don't know anything about this stuff. So I was really afraid. The people that work with me know my heart rate really drops, I kind of have an opposite effect. And in all my companies, so when things get really rough and tough, they usually buy me a pillow because I fall asleep. (Laughter) So we get in the plane, &quot;I've got to make it to the birth, and I completely fall asleep. (Laughter) And I'm in the cockpit; I'm the co-pilot! So we're up in the sky. All of a sudden, we're bouncing around. I wake up, and I look at the dashboard, where everything and now it's completely black. He says to me, &quot;Robert, And I said, &quot;No, there's too many clouds.&quot; He says - he's talking, it's really loud, and he says, &quot;Are you sure And I said, &quot;Yeah.&quot; And he says, &quot;To add (Laughter) all of our navigation Can you see the coastline?&quot; (Laughter) So, they actually have to close down We had flown off-course that's why he was asking We only had enough fuel and now I was really, &quot;I've got to make it and now I'm thinking: (Laughter) So finally, we come into Sydney, I rush to the hospital. We land at 3:07, and it takes 30 minutes and I'm going as fast as I can. I make it there, I rush and just as I run into the room the doctor and nurses say &quot;He made it!&quot; and I see my daughter's head, and one minute later, she was born. (Applause) Now, of course, I got to hold her at that moment, and it was the most awe-inspiring I remember thinking, But my thoughts are searched Will I be a great father? Those of us that have had children Will I be able to take on Will she be the daughter Will I be that father to her as well? Very often, we all get caught Alexander the Great once said, &quot;Man's immortality is not living forever. Every moment free from fear Man's immortality is not living forever Every moment free from fear When you break yourself of fear, But how do you do it? Because all of us start to think Some of us actually make it Harvard Business School asked their students &quot;What would you rather have Scenario A, and all dollars are constant, and the rest of the students Scenario B is you make $200,000, and the rest of the students, What do you think they chose? 87% chose A! Now, you would think these are (Laughter) Right? You would think they're brilliant; they're going to Harvard, and yet they chose the lesser economics. Because they're more focused They're more focused in terms of When actually, abundance Abundance comes scarcity comes from a place of fear. Breaking yourself of that type of thinking will change your life In life, we don't get We get what we expect. Researchers went to a first-grade class, did an IQ test. In that IQ test, the asked everybody - They told the teacher, &quot;You're not allowed to talk We're going to observe you for a year, and you have to sign on who gets the highest scores.&quot; Of the 30 students tested, five got genius level: Five students. So for the course of the next year, They monitored the teacher. At the end of the year, they came back to see if there were any variations Who do you think The five genius students! No great surprise. Except that that wasn't the true nature The true subject of the research None of the students, the year before, Her expectation that those five students, and she really did follow the rules - led those five students Two ways to overcome fear - and these are from my personal so this is not anything more One is: gratitude. I found it impossible to be fearful If I let my mind stop for a moment even in moments it makes all the difference in my life. The next way to overcome fear is to be intentional in my decisions. Everything that happens to you can either be the best thing or it could be the worst. It's about your perception of that. About 18 months ago, I had a terrible, I had left a wonderful job and I left because I was a very large private equity fund, to become CEO of Bausch + Lomb Surgical. The intent was to spin out that business, and to take that as a separate business It was a dog of a business at the time; it wasn't performing very well at all. During the course of the next year, It succeeded. We did really well. After a year and a half, I was ready. &quot;Okay. The company's doing great, employee's willingness-to-recommend all of our scores across customer It's time.&quot; Because we started doing so well the parent decided they and that they could derive greater value The entire company. My hopes were dashed. I was broken. That night, I flew home I actually threw up on the airplane. The next morning, I woke up, &quot;Today can be the worst day of my life, It's up to me.&quot; I decided that it Later that day, I had an idea to create the first Medicare opt-out The first company that takes I didn't realize It's a year and a half later, I toured the Bausch + Lomb building. Bausch + Lomb was just bought I toured the Bausch + Lomb building in 18 months. What can your mind do in 18 months Nelson Mandela spent 29 years having done nothing wrong except Everyday, while they made him chip stone, he remembered one poem &quot;Out of the night that covers me I thank whatever gods may be In the fell clutch of circumstance Under the bludgeonings of chance Beyond this place of wrath and tears And yet the menace of the years It matters not how strait the gate I am the master of my fate Each of us is the master We can overcome fear with gratitude. We can overcome fear And our perception drives reality. In life, you don't get but you almost always get what you expect. That moment where I held my daughter, that every day That she would be a beautiful woman. That she'd be the best daughter Her name is Madeline. And that she would be smart and sophisticated and polite She's become exactly that. Life happens to us everyday. We can decide what we will do with it. Let's all decide that we that we are the captains Thank you. (Applause)