- Good morning gold Sport. - Good morning, people, how are we doing - we are in a suburb of London, - today we came a little further towards the outskirts of the city. - Because something happened that no one expected - Exactly. - It just so happened that my friend Estonia, just this weekend, - is in London visiting her sister. - So I said okay, he's from London, I can get together - And he invited us to take a walk through a city in the interior of England. - It is quite touristy and known here, it is smaller, it has 100,000 inhabitants - and it is the only city in all of England that has hot springs. - I don't know if that's what we're going to see or not, but it's quite interesting. - The city is called baths, sorry, bath, bath - before going to our friend's house to greet her - I want to show you and see this neighborhood. - It's super cute, autumn is in full swing, huh - Aha. - All leaves match the buildings. - It's full of leaves, it's true - today is Sunday, that's why it's so quiet. - Look what this neighborhood is, what a beautiful thing. - The houses are very nice, - the rents are absolutely expensive, - we live with Lisanna, a real estate agent, what properties cost here - and the rents are crazy and also another thing that - look, the man is cleaning the leaves. - The houses are really very pretty, they are different, look how well they are arranged - the fences, everything, some paint them white - and others leave the little brown bricks. - The postman has already passed by singing, but very, very nice indeed. - Beautiful - A city that looks at this city would make me live. - That's where it started. - But I'm not going to start because now I have a visa to go live somewhere else. - What do we have here, an electric bicycle and next to it it looks like - a kind of rent parking space wow for your bicycle. - They give you access, you open it and you store your bike and you close it so it doesn't get stolen - It's in the middle here of the street. - Is there a bike inside? You can't see it - Look how interesting, I've already seen more than one house with that plastic thing stuck there on the wall that says godzec, I don't know if that's an alarm or what it is, - I wonder if it will be dangerous here if they steal the houses - or if it is something else that has nothing to do with an alarm. - Later we will ask your friend Lisanna, - look, there is another ADT, it also has a little light. - There's another RCJ scope over there. - It seems like they are like different brands here, says Abel. - What is it? - There's one there and it says Security. - Look, almost everything in the world has that, - but it is dangerous here. Could it be that they steal? There is not a single person - so silence. - People respect the sleep schedule. - But it's already 9 in the morning. - But it's Sunday, did you see? - Very good. We arrived here in the city of bath, bath in English - They say it is one of the favorite cities of the English - to come and spend a weekend. - On vacation, the city really seems very nice - we are going to go see it now because it has some architectural, - historical things that only exist here. - Very curious, but first. - We are going to introduce you there. - To our friend Ingrid here she is. She speaks Spanish. - Introducing Ingrid is Estonian, she is our friend who we met in Rio de Janeiro. - I was going to say somewhere that they think, but it has nothing to do with it, no - She speaks Portuguese, Spanish, Estonian, English and Japanese, not Japanese, no - and here next to us we have Margot Margot is Ingrid's sister who lives in England ago. - 11 years - that's right - and Ingrid always comes to visit her and since she came to visit we just found her, - but Ingrid now lives in Estonia with her future Spanish husband. - I explain everything so that people know, you see Ingrid - Margot Speaks in English she speak English stoneion japanese Ah no - all English Stone English stonio - There she no longer speaks with the accent from here, because she has lived here for many years , - So today we are going to go for a walk around here, they are going to show us. - They are going to shock us here - and Ingrid also told us that they are going to take us to eat something very special than the British. - Every Sunday you eat it's like you have to eat this. - Exactly. - People go with their family, which is a family tradition. - It's a family tradition. - Now we are family today. - So it's called like rosted, something like that, then Ingrid is going to explain to us, - Sunday roast - Then we explain - and get to know the Pub culture and things that are typical of the British here, - so well, let's take a walk, the girls are already introduced. - Today I am accompanied by 3 Estonians. Look, look, Lisanna, the two of us here, a few years ago. - Well, a few years from now but. - How nice. - Look. - look what a beautiful city, what a bathroom - The architecture of the houses here seem as if they were all castles. - Look what this is, it's crazy, they're not just houses - everything is like super detailed. - Uh-huh. - Verbose, I don't know. - I'm seeing more now. - It's almost December, it's not long before we were going to come and the time is there. - Like ugly and raining and dark, but the leaves are super colorful, so like - it's sunny today. - It gives it a magical touch - Ingrid's sister told us that it hasn't rained in 2 weeks and everything is sunny, so look. - What beautiful weather it has here in England, one thought it was going to rain but it didn't - and what is curious about this place and that it became famous is because it is the only place - in England that has hot springs. - Yes, and it was here where the Romans came to bathe in the thermal waters - and they had their Roman baths. - It all seems like something from a movie, doesn't it? - I know the architecture really looks and is so different from what I know. - No huh. - Look there we have a coffee, for example, espresso bar, - it looks like it's inside a house. - And look at this, how good. - What's that? Oh, look, if not, I still don't understand - which way do I have to look when I cross the street - this gives me a headache, I'm always lost, c - very nice cafe, don't see it basically. - Very nice cafe there tucked into a Casita, - I don't know if it's someone or this decoration, but it looks very thematic. - Yes, architecturally beautiful and here we also saw that there is a more English life. - There are not so many foreigners. - Yes. - Oh, they're taking photos because Ingrid's sister's sister is a photographer. - Look how she takes photos, Margoth this is Your Camera. - Look and she takes photos with old cameras. - Look how incredible you are. - It is for travel, it is like an old style - it is our parents' Camera. I don't know how old it is, but it's very old - This must be at least 20 years old. - At least, but I think more than 30 is digital, - it has a roll of film inside and then the photos come out like, like old style. - Like style, like vintage. - And you have? - Yes, you have to go to the photo shop and usually here in London. - They make it in like 2 days, so fast 2 hours. - Margot says professional photography Margot - I said it right, Ingrid. - Yes, thank you. Ah. - Perfect. - It's the first country, it's like I see that architecture, not true, - because the rest of Europe has at most Roman, - I don't know anything about architecture - Roman, Italian, Hispanic, that is, Spain is like another style or Nordic, - but here it's like super English. - But actually you are right because I started to read a little and research before coming, - because now with age one becomes more of a reader. - Terrible and Lisanna - and the architecture that is in this place and what it does is very famous in this city. - It's that Georgian architecture from the time of King George and they built some buildings. - Impressive, one in the shape of a moon and the other in the shape of a sun - which we are going to see in a little while, but which can be seen very well in this city - that type of architecture and it is very special and people come from all over the country. - Let's meet her now in a while we'll see so she doesn't get bored. - As you can see in the back, a girl comes with a very short top, - that is, you can see her belly and today she must be 10deg. But why do I say it? - Because we see it as so common that in England, - like people are not cold and I'm wearing the winter jacket - which is made for temperatures below zero and it's still cool - they don't wear a winter jacket. - No, and there is a man wearing shorts. - Shorts now. - With shorts, people who go running are in sleeves, shorts and shorts, - so it's like they don't feel cold. - Look - I mean, no one has a thick jacket like us. - Exactly. - Look at this building, for example, it looks like it's a church, - but in reality it's not. - It is a bar if it is a bar in there, a Restaurant, - because as you know here the culture of bars is something strong. - They like to drink. - Today we are going to go to a pub, yes, because the pub is different from the bar. - Yes, par is the more elegant you dress, the better a cocktail is, but Pub is like beer. - And look here we have the Royal theater. - What beautiful architecture that has everything here and everything very well taken care of. - Look at the price of the houses here in England, it is priceless. - 3 bedrooms 1100000 pounds. - Now a super beautiful house with a patio, four bedrooms 1750000. Pounds - but here there is nothing less than 1000000 no and I'm going to tell you something, this is cheap - because if you go to London an apartment this small - it doesn't fit a minimum pin, we are talking about 500000 pounds 4000000. - 4000000 - 7 to 10 quarter there I understand why a person that you have seen. - Sure, but the prices of things here are very expensive. - He says that the girl told us that here, for example, people who have their own house in London, one of those for 1000,000 and up, inherited it. - Of course, it's been like this for a long time and they don't even sell it - and it's so common to rent and no one buys, you see? - Exactly, - It's expensive - It's difficult to have a house nowadays in England, it's difficult to own a house, - look here we're already walking through the center of the city, - it's renovated, it's full of people walking, - the people are really very polite, look at how they decorate the houses. things with flowers there, how cute. - I didn't imagine that the interior of England could be like this, to be honest. - No, it's quite touristy here too, right? Yes, but it's beautiful - It's beautiful, there are some closed shops too, look. - Some businesses have closed here, it is clear that COVID is here. -Will it have hurt trade a little? Where is our friend there? Here is Ingrid. - Look, was Ingrid and Margot here, the two of them here eating, what are Ingrid eating? - It's a Sausage rolls - Sausage rolls - Sausage rolls - A bread with sausage. - So, sausage mixture inside and it's delicious. - Look at the Estonians? And you, Ingrid, like England like Estonia. - I think Estonia has its pros and cons, but I also think England, - well, I'm talking about London because I didn't really travel that much in England, - but in London there are many things to do. There is a theater. - As? - Incredible. - Incredible, I saw many, how is it? - Theatrical pieces. - I recommend, for example, the Lion King. - Ah the Lion King, Lion King. - It's great. And there is a lot of culture, there is theater, there are also concerts, for example, - if you like small artists, you can go almost every day. - What are you? There are all kinds of opinions. - What is infinite, but there is no time, did you hear? - No time, no time. - Dress up, but in the theater you can also buy cheap steaks. - Sometimes it's like you have a little worse seat, - but you can always see everything as it's not strict it's always you can see everything. - You have a vinocular - Margot wanted to come here to buy some cheeses. Margot likes twitch decides cheese. - Inherit. - Are. - Good girl. - Troufado. - We're fine. - To give. - A little to prove the boy, he told the truth, - the people here are very affectionate, very calm. Ah, but a big piece gives us - Look at you, look - I don't have such a big cheese at home either, my love, I don't know what I'm going to cut, no - Just to have it, we use it. - It's good. - Prove. - Strong pain. - A combination that no, I have not imagined. - But those who like Rocket Ford, blue cheese, cheese - truffled, strong, spectacular, very delicious. - But it's not too strong, it's not like soft either, - but do you feel the taste of truffle? Yes, very good. - I Love you cheese. - Thousand song we are and fi say i Love you cheese no okey. - Thank you so much. - English, a person you can talk to asks you if they are interested - They are open people Yes, I am but. - Yes, in London we ask that a man not take photos. - You asked, where is your story from? Oh I was there me. - I loved it I was there 2 weeks ago, I'm going to come back and have a good time. - Look here the bitter bought a piece of barbaric cheese. - Look at this wall, how it's all full of holes, it must be the architecture, yes, - but there are people who have a phobia of seeing holes - and I don't know, they can't, like, they can't live. - Sorry, that's why it happens - it looks a little like. - It looks weird. - They look like those things that are on the beach in the. - Stone aha. - Are you too, now? - There is the Bath Abbey. Look how spectacular this place is, how beautiful - let's see if we can see it inside - There we see some families taking photos, I wrote everything I saw. - Oh, there's a tree - I find it interesting in England, it's that many shops, many bars have a theme. - For example, this store has an Alice in Wonderland theme. - Alice in Wonderland. - It's called the Matt Hatters Tea Party. - Where is it here? You're right, each one decorates it in a different way. - Yes. - Not all bars are pubs, but many have their own theme and are very interesting. - I hadn't paid attention to that either and be right. - Inside I can see that they even put a statue of that Willy Wonka - not who the character is, no, that one is from another of the chocolates. - I sent him Bollywood piny boy kake. - But if I'm really seeing that they decorate everything, look how good. - Do one day every 24. - We would have done it here, eh? The price fell, fell. - And it gives more food it seems. - Near my sister's house there is a cafe, coffee shop. - Yes, it has a Breaking Bad theme. - It's called Heisenberg's cafeteria. - Heisenberg I love one of my favorite series. - How good we continue visiting the city. - Look at the park we found here. - A spectacle, I don't know if you can step on the grass. - Oops, we are stepping on the grass here, it is like a park that said, - it was written that it won awards for being one of the most beautiful parks here in the city. - There are people here who are reading. - Look. - Look at the class that they dress, the people here too, no - with a young boy hat reading his book with his leather bag. - The truth is that as he looks very nice, you can tell that the kid is very well dressed. - How would you say that like classy, classy, elegance, elegance, - such a young and elegant boy? And here, apparently, he takes a good look at everything to take the photo. - Ah, because there is like one. - A fall. - Yes, yes, yes, you know what that is, Lisanna, that is one of the few bridges that exist in Europe - which has restaurants and bars in the middle of the 2 sides, - you can go to eat, drink, spend the day there, it's great and this is the Avon River. - If not, I'm not mistaken about the name of this river and here you can see the bridge, take a look. - We could try to cross it, see what it's like inside. - Those bridges are not very common and easy to find. - They told us that in London there are people who live on boats - because it is cheaper than renting a house - and there was already a woman who rented a mobile home because she couldn't pay the rent. - Things like this are happening in London. - There's Lisanna taking photos with that camera from 30 years ago. - There are the sisters. - Look at one 1,2,3 - Bravo, Lisana. Bravo, good. This is the first time we are going to set foot inside an English pub. - Let's see what's going to happen. - Look, I think it's fut hygieni rating 5 here has at least a lot of concern with hygiene - things like food and this and that. - That looks more elegant. - Very elegant, huh? The place looks very elegant. - Look at the decoration, the pictures they have in the pub - Look at the bar, how wonderful I've never seen a bar in an English pub. - It's the first time I've seen her. - The number of beer options there are within walking distance. - For this it's not beer, I don't know if it's beer or not, it's drinks, it's beer or not. - Traditional bitter yes. - I loved it on vacation because she doesn't say, oh. - There is no saying. - Look, they have a gizmo here. Hello Sport. - Did you see Lisanna, English beer is not carbonated. - But normal beer that has gas inflates you, - so maybe that doesn't inflate you that much? Could it be, I don't know, I wonder. - Look how he does it. - And he makes it well crafted. - look at the size of the cock they give you oh - and more English than coming to a pub to have a beer. - I don't know if there is, it doesn't exist and today is the Sunday they call Sunday Funday, what was it like? - Sunday Funday. - Sunday Funday means. - Domingo, friend of. - That you can drink as much as you want. - Fun Sunday you can take as much as you want up to. - To not be able to take it anymore. - Until I burst. I'm going to wait for them to serve themselves there. - Then go home and drink more. - And then and after. - Take more. - And on Monday they go to work. - Clear. - But I don't know how. - Interesting, look here, Ingrid ordered one, they call it half a beer - and I ordered a paint, which is a whole one. - If you knew, a girl was asking me, but well, since we're at it - we're going to make a toast and Lisana isn't going to drink anything because she doesn't drink beer. - How do you say cheers main? - Uh cheers. - He played only cheers. Wait, there he is with the candle, there he goes, there's Thierry. - I still can't believe how much beer doesn't have gas. - This is Japanese beer. - Yes you can. - Being like that has a bubble. - With the English they drink all types of beer, so there is everything. - There is everything there is and there is also if you look, look, - it has books, the pub I don't know, the people come all dressed up, well dressed it's like. - there is a very nice terrace. - Super cute. Spectacular truth. - Look where we got here, now we went out to have a beer - and we came to see the Bath Abbey, - where the first king of England of the entire United Kingdom was crowned. - It's actually written on the back plate. - And on the way back there is a square and there is a super cute Christmas tree. - Christmas is beginning, - here are the famous ruins of the Roman baths - you can even have a drink of water. - It's hot because it's hot springs - and what they say is that it has healing powers and there they are. - Romanbath is written where those Roman men with slender bodies - came to take baths. - They're there now. - No way a trumpet. - People who come are already preparing because things are starting to move around here now. - there are some Awesome columns aha. - Look at the piston there. - Wow, everything is so cute. - What a beauty - Miro playing the violin on top of a string. - look at you. - Mr. painting here, what are you painting? No, I can't believe it. - Isn't this guy a genius? - The violinist is painting. - Very good, now we come and sit here in a pub restaurant. - I don't really know what it is because it has many things - and Margot who lived here explained to us that there is Sunday Rose, - which would be Sunday baking that all English people go out to eat on Sundays. - You have to reserve about a month in advance because otherwise there is no table - and they serve you this dish that you see here, look - I honestly don't know what it has, I don't know what it is, but Margot sure knows. - Bread. - Creazo. - I mean, had Ingrid ever eaten this? - First time in life. - First time too. - Excellent. - Notice that hers is different from mine - mine is beef and hers is pork. - Let's try it and see how it goes. - Sunday Funday - I tell her, the plate is huge. The export, perhaps very large - and she tells me people here eat this and don't eat anything else afterwards. - Not after they do. - It's like what? - Of course, it's like they eat each other, they drink a beer - and they drink another beer and another beer and another beer, - and so on to the maximum they can. - Beer also fills you up. - It's like they take Sunday here as fun and not as a depressive day - because tomorrow they have to go to work. - As if it were Saturday. - I loved it i Love the British mentality of deil with Sunday. - It is not that the coming day is a happy day. - Love discountry. - It's George it is. - Like a cookie, it is toast, like a cookie, a toast. - But the taste of toast. - You have to get wet. - Greivy is better. - With Gravity it's better. - Food always comes out of the oven. - Like rich. - Very good. - And I like homemade food. - Rich My love, meat. - Great. - The Ingrid who says let's see, let's see the pork because Tona's pork is very good. - Well. - Let me try the meat, I am a meat specialist, - let's see if the English steak is good. I don't know if the cow is English or where it is from. - Tender meat, very tender meat. - Also the flavor is very mild. It seemed to me - the truth is that it was very delicious, so we are going to make a toast to the day of funday Sunday - Sunday funday - I say the other way around, bon appetit and George tells me. - Here I show you how much this special lunch cost us? - 87. 9 EUR 2 people, what do you think of that price? - It's good, it's bad Ingrid, what did you think - more or less it was like 45 EUR per person. - Considering also that we had some beers and some wines of course. - With drinks. - Food was with drink. - Normal price. - I'm going to finish the wine and go for a walk. - I know that our channel is not much about explaining so much or giving so much information, - but this is something that touched my heart and inspired me - because here I don't know if you can see. - We are in a place where they made a complex of residential units - for the upper class, for high society - and they remain to this day in a round format like the sun and the side they made. - The moon and if you see it from above on the map you see exactly that and it is incredible because that - represents what the architect was inspired to build - all this that was the sun and the moon and he was inspired. - In the Amazonian nature and it seems incredible to me - because you can see everything they did from here. - And how this structure turned out is really impressive. - Well, the girls brought us here. - To skate a little on the ice rink. - Did you see the girl make her plans? I don't say anything, - I go where they take me? Yes, I said, let's go see the museums - they said, we're not going to skate, so let's see what now? What comes out? - Since Christmas is coming, prepare these pizzas, people love them. - Look, it's full of people and how many people there are. - Look look. - It continues to catch my attention that so many people with their bellies in the air do not cover themselves. - Youth today I have been 22 - Youth speaks as if it were a lady. - What's the plan? Ingrid, what plan did you prepare for us? - Is Margot the plan? - Let's go, let's do it - like the last time I ice skated. It went very badly for me. c - Not today, today I am not going to take risks and I am going to ask my colleague here, - my friend, here Englishman to give me the red chair there is. - I liked a little cherl for me and - I can't even walk. - Laughter my love. - Much better than going on skates. - Oh oh oh. - Oh my love, I loved it, I'm not the only one, look there's another girl there. - It's much better than going on skates that I fall all the time. - Look, I can go upside down. - But Mateo, for me it's boring. - Don't take me. - It's really good. - We don't have to do anything, we don't have to work at all, we have to exert strength, no, absolutely nothing. - The crazy car look look look speed is repro. - I weigh you a lot. - They started, push me Ingrid a little. - Wow it's much better better. - Oh really? Yes, I feel comfortable here too. - It's very fun. - I prefer to be seated all my life and have to go there. Look at the Lisanna. - It's going well. - Improving. - Love to watch. I was in born for the eyes. - Good morning my people, we just woke up - we are leaving for another country. - We are here in the neighborhood where we rented the Airbnb. - Look at how many plaques in Arabic there are here, it seems like we are in Qatar, - but in London. - Arabic and English, look over there at the signs. - The other day we had dinner at an Arab restaurant - and the price was much better, so good information. - If they know Arabic they will do well. Here - we are going to go get our breakfast in a supermarket - which is close here and we are going to see how you can have breakfast with the triple. - Good, nice and cheap in London. - Look what a spectacle. - You come here and what you do is you have like a meal, - they say they can serve you some fruit. - For example, up here, a main dish that would be a sandwich - or you can also have one of these wraps that I love - vegetarian there with chicken. - From chimich. - From Jim to the gym and a drink that the normal drink - is down here, which can be a water or a soft drink. - Very good, here we have breakfast, look, everything cost 10 pounds. - So that you can see that you can have breakfast cheap - and healthy because this is healthy food, it is fruit, it is egg, so here we leave you the little trick - to eat cheaply in London. - Now we're going to the airport, - we leave them a big kiss. This was a very different adventure. - I loved the city. - For me, the best capital in Europe, I loved London, - I am going to return 1000 more times to this city. - A beautiful kiss. I liked it - Bye.