It used to take me about five times as long to for an electrical box, use a fish bit to drill in the crawl space to see if I could find where hole until I thought there was enough in there to to see if I could find the wire and pull through then start the process all over again with another from inside the house to up in the attic or in That was time-consuming and exhausting, and have any suggestions to make this better or more The first key to pulling wire efficiently out of card stock so it can take the of a house all day. Actually here is the door over here. Here is a door to laundry. They are converting this space into a music and they want five new outlets. I want all these and then I'm going to put tape on the wall The first thing I'm going to do is customer wants the outlets -- or where then I'll have the customer come out That's a stud -- I want it right Stud here, stud here, right in the center. And so that when I measure to drop my wire I've got a is not going to be centered in the stud bay, I to use as a reference later. I'm going to match say 19 1/2 inches to the top of the box. Now I I'm just going to line the top of this box up get it where I want it, I'm going hold it Got everything marked, and he wanted to add the holes. Some people like to use a straight measurement right here is just about half and that helps keep me from cutting there. So it just makes it through the paper on I thought this was drywall, but it's actually Make sure the box is going to fit. And there's some wood bracing back there. So we're going to have to get Yes. Perfect. Now this actually is drywall over round blade here. And I just take the knife here -- and yes, you can probably cut these out grabbed several wires with drywall saws cutting cut shallow with a drywall saw, so that's what I cutter, that would be awesome, but ... There one. The box fits perfectly. Nice and snug. After all the cutouts are made I take careful of the stud bay) to an intersecting wall. Now I'm outlet box -- or the hole. I'm going to measure and from this wall to there, and then of course and I record that on my drawing. 33, and this one 49 inches. And to that wall 17 feet 5 inches -- this is such a low sloping roof it might be hard So these are all the distances I'm going to plates to run my wire. It's pretty easy to find there's not a whole bunch of blown in insulation a crawl space or basement you're going to fixtures or existing outlets to help you pinpoint my cutouts to the ceiling, or floor. From the box to be pulling from. So it's about 88 inches from add a couple of feet to that, and then I'll have the wall. So let's say it's 90 in we'll just round feet of wire down the wall to that hole, and I'll measurement will be different. That'll be about 4 rest of these will be 10. If you're pulling to or note that location as well. The next step will be I want to take a minute to talk about measuring with a tape measure is frustrating at best, if you don't know it already. Mine is about this information I can measure out wire Before I go to the attic, I want to make sure wire -- naturally, a tape measure, a top plates. I'll also bring electrical boxes wire nuts, lever nuts, or push connectors with Romex sheathing cutters, linesman's case I need to pull any nails or staples, a black Once in the attic I crawl to the vicinity of way back in here, and the entrance is way back it might be 4 and 1/2 feet to the ridge right Anyway, I'm going to set up a fan and a big light my big light. All right, now what we're looking measurements off of that. And I see it right the drywall break right there, and then the wood down there. So we'll just follow that and then yep, so see there's the top plate right there. isn't too much.) This could prove difficult if you know you're going to need need to move insulation I locate where I want to drill my first hole by the walls below. So I need to drill a hole for So I'm going to measure over where those pipes the wall intersection right there. That's the top running this way. 49 inches to here. Going to All right, now I need on this one, according to each other, so I need one drop that's 10 feet So knowing that I have a 6 foot armspan at full and that should be about 5 feet. So that twice marker to mark the wire at that 10 foot location. pick a spot for my junction box that the three I might as well go ahead and pick a spot for my exactly how much extra wire I need to run to the All right, this looks like a decent spot for to hammer it in place until I get all my wires in All right, where's the other junction box going to sort of place but down on that end. Okay, this now. That's my place marker to run all the wire to to our 10 foot mark. Some of you might be thinking There's no insulation in these garage walls, insulation? If there is insulation, I recommend Make a small hook of wire. give it a little barb electrical tape -- just at the tip like that. Then that. You'll probably need to drill your holes wire and the pole. And you're able to push it down it needs to go, all you do is pull out your wire insulation exactly where it needs to be... Which our junction box right here, and cut We're gonna need all these. So there's one. Now we need there. Just feed that one down in there with it. Actually I'm pretty sure we don't Come back to the junction box. Now we need wall which will be this one right here. That X We'll drill that. Here's the outside wall. I'm and there's the wall plate running along here. So I'm going to drill right about there. There's our 10 foot mark right there. So run All right so to our junction box now I need to let's go ahead and drill for our other do over here on this side my drill bit won't is actually way down inside of this wall, and if that doesn't work got another extension and I don't lose the drill bit, but if you sure you're carrying stuff like this. Let's see Not quite. Now this is really just made for Oh, even though it's magnetic, it stayed After all of the drops were made, I made put covers on boxes, and stapled my wire down. All the drops made it where they needed to In here. Pulling wire for this Every single one came out without a installed and there's not much chance back in the attic or crawl space and caulk all I hope this video was helpful. If it was, or if you have any suggestions or advice or As always, thanks for watching, and [Music]