The US, like many industrialized countries, has cementing into place a system of Sheldon Wolin calls &quot;inverted totalitarianism.&quot; symbols, iconography, and language of the old have seized all the levers of power to accrue Claire Provost and Matt Kennard in their book, chart the way the corporate coup d'etat an international legal system to control and including the overthrow of governments The authors expose the nefarious alliance one that prioritizes profit rather than justice. evisceration of workers' protections and rights. have not only created, in essence, a global mercenary militias to crush labor movements The subversion of democracy abroad is subversion of democracy at home. The mechanisms world are also used in the industrial world. a former staff reporter for the Financial at Declassified UK: a news outlet that Matt, in your first chapter titled Democracy legal case that was launched by a Vancouver government of El Salvador. And you use book for how large corporations loot and pillage international agreements, investment treaties, global corporations. So I want you to explain what Well, I'll start with the system itself and effectively, what the system is is a shadow and affects pretty much every country in the whereby multinational corporations can sue which they say infringe on their, This was a system that was created in and the end of formal empire. The main body where World Bank and it's called the International ICSID. Very little knowledge about it in the for example, knows the name of it. It's called to El Salvador everyone knew that, but So this was created in 1966 by the World Bank. many countries in Africa and other places were been fighting the imperial powers on the ground Now, in that scenario, the traditional owners how are we going to maintain control? How protected when we don't have formal empire to troops based in that country where we can take So they came up with this system. And in banker called Hermann Abs who was at Deutsche Nazi regime as well. But after World War II, that he called a &quot;capitalist Magna Carta.&quot; famous speech, it should be a famous speech -- But group of industrialists from all over the world well. This was 1957, so the context was four years out the democratically elected prime minister of the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, was now BP. democratically elected president of Guatemala, redistribute a bit of fallow land back to landless crisis where President Nasser nationalized the the UK, and Israel. And he was saying, look, we're don't want to have to have a system where we assassinate leaders, whatever it may be. We need we can exercise power above the heads of these Arbenz, or a Mohammad Mosaddegh, they can't move. that operates above states, it's a supranational enforced. He then joined with a British a Labor Lord, and they wrote this document and it basically was a template for this taken up by the World Bank in the '60s and Now, we went to the World Bank Archives, as part quite open on the inside about what it was about. world, and also, it was a geopolitical tool enforcing corporate rule in countries that might it didn't take off as a system until the end of number of cases, and it exploded after the been taken against Eastern European countries enforced on countries that are reintegrated When a country comes in from the cold -- coming in from the cold or they thought it obviously hasn't happened but at that time, ISDS, which is what the system is called, part of the menu of policies that are pushed on system. Because the Western states, the Western to use to make sure that new states can't move and The book started with this story in El Salvador. been at Financial Times, she'd been at The and development and in the Financial Times, at the World Bank. We were both talking about... of the organization -- An amazing American who was actually a mentor to Julian Assange and he said to us, look, you can do whatever you So we thought we should be as ambitious the reporting we'd been doing, and I know you've we believe that the biggest political story in the the economic instrument of corporations, And this has been a battle that's been waged joint-stock company, which they say was created but there's been this battle waged. to think of a way of doing it... And we and Claire had been doing a bit of work on ICS and you should go to El Salvador. They've Amazing in the sense of the resistance to it. these arcane, obscure systems that no one knows everyone knows about it. And everyone knows acronym. And she said you've got to come and talk to fight this case, which a lot of governments the party that came out of the So we went along and we saw what this system because the people in El Salvador understood that This mining company had not been given a permit the local population. Now, you would think that a be to enact policies which fundamentally protect That's what the system is about stopping. So our permit. And we're going to take you to publicized it and it became this big [inaudible So it was an amazing experience to start with. which was maybe the craziest case of all, which the ANC government and the South African state to were policies which were enacted at the end of apartheid and part of it was to give 30% of every Black people. This Italian company said, this is Africa to court. And in fact, that was settled out you don't have to apply this policy to And the reason the South Africans did that -- We or people who had been ministers at the time -- possible because we didn't want to incentivize they could win or they could at least take the opposite in South Africa, we went to South fundamental attack on the South African government Anyway, so the book developed out of that. in the book because it's impossible all these systems that enforce corporate that enforce the rule of the 1%, they all have them to justify them to the general population to the people on the inside who don't want to look ISDS doesn't even have that, it's one of the few very hard to even justify it. Because the only the chance that a country will attract foreign go somewhere. They know if something bad happens venue where they can get compensation. to what we're told how capitalism works. If you get huge returns, but you might get expropriated but that's part of the risk. This system ensures the global corporate transnational class. So finish with this: It's not only the cases that that's actually not even the biggest problem. around the world because a lot of governments which might infringe on corporate profits, these cases is now a big consideration. from Guatemala through the Freedom of a mine that they were evaluating whether to grant talking on the inside. There were some discussions community, but in the end, they were talking whether they'd get sued by this company if they they gave the environmental permit because it was and it's a real attack on democracy, it's a real react to its citizenry as it should do, ahead developing world now, it's coming home to roost. a lot of these systems which were set up to formal colonialism are now coming back to Let's talk about how countries how they're pressured into accepting these disadvantageous. And then, let's go back to examples where they were Yeah. As an explanation, this system bilateral investment treaties, which are called agreements between countries. One of the major book was about free trade agreements or so-called when you hear that, you think that's about increasing trade. In fact, that's probably a of pages long. And it's about creating all these can operate in that country unfettered. corporate rights agreements, really. And ISDS, where multinational corporates can sue states So it's in NAFTA, it's in CAFTA, it was going free trade agreement in history between Europe and bilateral investment treaties. Often, countries In the South Africa case, it was quite bilateral investment treaties which were used these were agreements signed by Mandela after the and they'd say, oh, welcome. You're coming back then say, let's sign this nice, little bilateral meant nothing; it was a bit of diplomatic by people who we talked to who formally served they're getting hit with these suits that through these agreements. And that's often what In fact, when we went to the World Bank, as were inside the World Bank and we were talking which we can also talk about, which is a majorly building, we were saying, do you know where ICSID didn't know where ICSID was. So it's this bastard about it which was a revelation, and even less mainly because it's completely indefensible. That's why I call it a shadow legal system Even the cases themselves, they're not open The system by which arbitrators have chosen the whole system is massively secretive. And the corporation and the state to keep it that way, African government wanted to keep the case really other companies to do it because this system to do another thing called jurisdiction that doesn't have a bilateral investment treaty shell company in a country that does and then do it. You can find a way if you need to. system is what's called third party financing which invest solely in claims against governments. expenses of the case, but also to expand. But they to pay us back if you lose, but if you win, you sometimes, about billions of dollars. they won billions from Ecuador. There's a case now in the media where an American company is taking their GDP for the current government of Honduras the previous US-backed neoliberal regime. They're with this suit. And the Honduran government a huge sum of money that it could have a huge for them to survive. They can't pay it, so it's It's a massive attack on democracy. The left, anti-globalization movement in the '90s, it got but these systems have only grown in strength. and this system needs to be publicized as well Let's talk about the case of El case and mention the fate of Yeah. The other point was, as you know, around been hushed up by the corporate media -- world fighting back against corporate rule. In there was Marcelo Rivera who was killed, but there mining projects and it's always the same. It was talk to people and say, yeah, well, we can't this was someone who goes past on a motorbike, and the legal system doesn't really work, the so they don't find who kills him. Everyone assumes mining company but it's never proven. a very interesting case because Chiquita, the changed their name because they have a fear of Chiquita was taken to court in the US under in Columbia because they had hired paramilitaries trade unionists who were fighting Chiquita or I'm not a hundred percent sure, but Often, it is complete impunity really because Like in the case of Rivera, it was complete we also went to, there were lots of activists but he was in Aguan Valley and there were lots against his companies and their actions. And nothing ever happened, and actually, But this is what you see. No one's fighting back system's set up to promote corporate and the only people really who understand on the ground because they have no choice justify it to the people on the inside. They their friends are getting killed for raising It's really depressing in that sense but there is real activism against a There's the case of Bolivia, which the water system in Cochabamba -- The and handed over to the American corporation, it impossible for most people to afford water. huge amounts of people came out in the streets and Five years later, they had their first Indigenous nationalized countless industries when he got into IMF for the economic success under his government. you're told to do by the IMF and World So yes, people are working at high, high risk. But successes that can be brought about. Because the undercover is because it's unjustifiable you know the facts. And the other problem we because we have a responsibility in that we we can say stuff and do activism and raise the But the media we have, the corporate media; by corporations, but also, they do all these infested with corporate power and so is the NGOs. good example. Now, this wasn't to do with the ISDS the outskirts of San Salvador, the capital called live on top of an aquifer. And no one there could the road, all these multinational companies were one of them being SABMiller, which is one of the We did a story for The Guardian. So naturally, is sponsored by the Gates Foundation so the The Gates Foundation is not a benign player in pushing a neoliberal idea of development. I went me a report. They said look, you've got it all report we co-authored with Oxfam. I couldn't less naive now -- I thought back then, I was like, But this report basically exculpated SABMiller America logo and I thought, that is incredible. website under the Gates Foundation. Two days later Guardian: Not an advertorial, not flagged as division head of SABMiller. He doesn't mention our there are problems with water in Latin America Of course, that's the term du jour of the Why are those politicians corrupt? I wonder. Is it Then, I thought that is incredible that it wasn't and I saw that SABMiller funded a whole section and I publicized that, and then soon after, I was The problem is that I had a predilection to go who's getting bombarded with all with these Oxfam they don't know that The Guardian's funded against that, and often, nearly no one does. very hard to get the truth out about this not a coincidence is it? You wouldn't go to Pravda was doing and you don't go to the corporate media So to conclude, from this book, the responsibility power. We have power in the West because this We have power and we need to use that power marginalized from the mainstream media, which They were successful in El Salvador in one of the very few successes you write we have a couple of minutes left, the boomerang you use Germany as an example. Explain In Germany, Hermann Abs, as I mentioned, was this system. And then, we went to Hamburg in cases actually. Germany had decommissioned their Japan because they said it was too dangerous. And power plants in Germany, took them to these courts where Vattenfall had a coal-powered power plant in the plant was raising the water temperature in the Hamburg. And they challenged the environmental river below a certain level. They challenged it, okay, you can go back to how you wanted it before. it was amazing talking to people in Hamburg I knew about the system before. I was shocked this stuff. And that's something we saw all Europe. And I'll finish with a case in Britain, how corporations have chiseled off physical space main one is SEZ, special economic zones, which pay a normal tax, you don't have to pay customs all these things that corporations, if they Britain now, a couple of years ago, announced port sounds like a nice thing but a free port So the developed world has joined the race to sell off the few remaining things that it has to NHS, for many decades, was a beacon It's the National Health Service. -- National Health Service, yes. It was created by the point of use; Anyone could use it. Growing up, when you went into a hospital to see the GP, it of the NHS and making it more and more like the in terms of how much it costs to health outcomes. because the government's thinking, okay, this is a isn't making policies, the corporations are making And there's very, very little because again, it's all been done by stealth. out in a trailer outside the hospital two companies. The whole of the NHS, our Stuff you wouldn't have thought would be every part of the state and they've erected but also, as you know, domestically. We haven't on that. But domestically, in terms of the US the political system and it's impossible without heavy backing from the corporate sector. 2023... This is a war which has been waged for But effectively, in 2023, they've won. And haven't colonized. And the cultural outgrowth of theories, like Bill Gates is installing chips I don't know. There is in the United States as that the politicians they're seeing on TV aren't there's no analytical framework for them to I don't know, an individual or a cabal, when That is where those politicians aren't making who are are corporations, the big ones, and in the I look at a lot of declassified files, British the Prime Minister, Tony Blair or whoever it is, big British businesses and how he can help them. Putin and how Blair had sucked up to Putin Russia in the early 2000s. And this is a story was given a state visit to the UK, the first time of a Russian head. He came and went round in a A couple of days later, BP got the contract to history. And that's how the world works. And about it because otherwise, people are going to be quite scary because -- You've done a lot of work about the Nazi regime, before the Nazis came into it took was a demagogue to come along and say, different group next time but the point is the You've got Trump in the US. He's a good the inability of people to locate power We haven't quite had it in the UK because we Trump. We've got Boris Johnson, who was a bit of a to conclude, that the left needs to and you've been one of the most important something that is widely enough covered by the cannot understand the world today unless you're That is the integral issue. And the fact that the anymore, and there's no form of democracy, because I want to ask, you have a section in the mention Oxfam, but you detail these partnerships between NGOs like CARE USA, Save the Children, pharmaceutical giant, and GSK. Talk about how Well, a lot of it is to do with the fact after the financial crisis because governments places like Oxfam, and Save the Children does get So in that context, they had to survive, they corporations are always there because they've got to countless NGOs about it. And often, people on upset about it. You don't go into Oxfam, you don't sector or the aid sector to partner with the resources of one of the poorest communities in The higher-ups said, we sign these contracts where say over our editorial position in the case of like that. I'm not saying those contracts don't The Guardian said to us, we make sure that publishing corporate propaganda for it, producing we say it won't bleed into editorial policy, they down the line, you've got dozens of corporations subconscious effect on the reporters because your power and it operates in a very insidious way. the few cases where it was, in my opinion, a and the ability to barge in on the editorial side insidious role. And it's the same with NGOs. And corporate imperial tapestry; They are vital to they give the patina of humanitarianism to this effectively. And often, they're partnering or at least, supporting governments which are And the same thing goes for organizations are allied to aid institutions like spent a long time investigating the International again, in the heat of the decolonization movement. just transfer capital to governments, let's now to new markets. The IFC, effectively, now is in Tanzania that had been funded by the IFC. the World Bank is publicly funded. They funded profit for 10 years which is a very nice thing for you don't pay tax. And they've got corporate tax ministry is probably like five or six guys in Myanmar Burma which had got funding from the IFC. the guise of development, under the guise of And it's all the opposite of what they is the alleviation of global poverty. And the majority of humanity continue to live in in the world we live in. That's what they out why it ended up like this but it's not a these policies. And if a government goes against which is the US military, effectively, or at least You talk about how the role of traditional militaries have been privatized, privatized, and I wondered if you could touch on the term &quot;informal imperialism.&quot; If Yeah. We end the book with the privatization of in fact, we mentioned the concept of democracy in this has the biggest ramifications. Because for that the power of the state rests on the fact that and only the state does. So a police under threat but an average Joe can't. in many countries private security, mainly outnumbers police now. So what does the privatization of the military as well. And military. And Donald Rumsfeld made this famous where he basically said we need to privatize atrocities of the next day, but the plan was private contractors working for the Pentagon got the Wagner Group in Ukraine. This is a major, This sounds like some crazy dystopian idea corporations going to war themselves over this whole system is there's no regulation. which a lot of corporations sign up to private it and it's like a gentleman's agreement. And Russia have colluded on because they don't want facets of this system for states and one of accountability. It's the plausible deniability: mechanisms can be enforced, in the UK, the of Defense, they disappear. We can't send Freedom it's much, much easier to hush up of states to subcontract this out in terms And that goes on to what you were It's much, much easier to cover up atrocities if the state framework. So yeah. It's going to be we went... The book we wrote in chronological to aid, and then we went on to SEZs. When we were space, we started understanding that the world by this rule of the 1%, was a world of a richer and then a society on the outside and destitute. And in that scenario, that off from the rest of that society that it's these private security forces. It's a symptom of Great. That was Matt Kennard, a former co-founder and chief investigator at Real News Network and its production David Hebden, and Kayla Rivara. You can