This video is sponsored by CuriosityStream. Get access to my streaming video service, using the link in the description. Science fiction delights in showing us humanity's out among the stars... but it is very likely and megastructures of our own creation. So welcome to Science &amp; Futurism with Isaac Isaac Arthur. Just under eight years ago the channel began we call megastructures, huge artificial constructs in size and serve a similar role, as our future Back in the day, the graphics on the show megastructure visuals in existence were made the audio was terrible. It was the first episode of this show and in as captions because there wasn't one. As time went on our audio and graphics improved impediment, and Folks have often asked why every other early episode has gotten a redo Indeed we gave many megastructures their own did indeed seem time to catalog all of them ones we and others have dreamed up since then. Needless to say, even keeping it quick, this beating out our previous record-holder, the minutes. So get yourself a drink and a snack, or even Also in the interest of preserving my vocal Fowler Arthur, will be alternating narration Now, obviously, even giving ourselves an extended-length to get into details, but we'll be trying rather tricky because a megastructure pretty but the majority of them are artificial habitats Some exist for maximum efficiency and practicality, like the O'Neill Cylinder or Stanford Torus, what we call a BWC or "Because We Can" ones. Some rely on concepts that need explaining, structures. In the end though the determining factor for ones I forgot while I'm writing, so we're those concepts relevant to megastructures spin-gravity or gravity plating, will get the concept in the Megastructures. With that in mind, let's begin our list tricks for mega-engineering, Active Support, it, one of the most impressive megastructures Active Support to build structures that no known material While it comes in many forms, the most conceptually when you've turned the water on, and grows For objects like a Lofstrom Loop or Orbital metals moving inside magnetic confinement, and contained inside a stationary sheath. In high-tech megastructures, this may be a warm temperature superconductors inside it, to keep the active support intact and rigid. These objects can be arbitrarily strong and Most common shapes would include a circle straight line, such as an Atlas Pillar or They form the foundation of many megastructures. See also: Atlas Pillar, Lofstrom Loop, Orbital Alderson Disc built, with a top and bottom side you could disc. It was first suggested by Dan Alderson, a who was active in sci-fi circles and talking Niven, who wrote about so many megastructures. In simple form, an Alderson Disc around our in the middle stretching from as close as distant, frozen depths of space, and of such at its center. The default Alderson Disc masses roughly 3000 be built around bigger stars or red dwarfs, The critical problems with building an Alderson First, it takes immense strength to keep the a flatter plate or inward into a sphere. Second, most of the sunlight is completely what light does come in arrives from the side. This places the entire disc, top and bottom as the distance and air interfere. This results in a warm center and frigid outer Some suggest addressing this by bobbing the above and below, and this is technically possible be placed on a ultra-eccentric orbital path no plausible natural path that would produce would require constant stabilizing efforts. For all these reasons, an Alderson Disc is To address the first problem, the disc collapsing, we make use of countless orbital rings, each having an angular momentum appropriate to the star's own mass is soon dwarfed by inner We then place a sheath above and below these separate by utilizing Atlas Pillars to keep each other or the orbital rings below. Care must be taken to include segment walls from rushing to the center; these segment Large subterranean pumps may move air and to assist in this. Additionally by varying the mass and density we may cancel out some of the central pull, the disc. To provide power for all the active support, star may be a solar power collector. To permit a 24 hour day or seasons, we may and shades above and below the north and south to the disc's radius, to reflect sunlight The wide statite discs may include wedges have tilted reflective bands, to cause the time period and strength, and thus replicate While this structure is popular in science deem physically possible but not a practical it does have the advantage of being one of allows a continuous Earth-like living area, being bigger than even a classic Dyson Sphere, See our episodes: Megastructures 6: Discworlds See also: Active Support, Discworld, Lagite, Arcology Megatower tall and wide buildings which are ecologically This is typically assumed to mean towers dwarfing their own internal power sources and water In science fiction, these are usually seen and graffiti covered steel and concrete jungles, big or small, and given their scope, would community than a slum. A space outpost with all its own internal be the first true total arcology, though it not be specifically tall, and could be wide The term arcology, being a combination of meant to simply encompass any group of structures the giant skyscraper concept comes later but formally by calling these an Arcology Megatower. See our episodes Arcologies and Arcology Design Ark Ship of Noah's Ark, is meant to be an interstellar biology to another world. This is usually in the form of a giant cylinder gardens, farms, zoos, and nature habitats via artificial lighting and power, until the Generally speaking, the immense amount of life support, even for many centuries, is to get the ship moving at interstellar speeds These are also often known as Generation Ships. A second-style Ark Ship, one containing frozen be smaller and not qualify as a megastructure, See our Generation Ships &amp; Interstellar Colonization Artificial Sun this could be an entirely normal star simply processes but made from an atypical material, or could be ones with a Starlifting Apparatus life and allow refueling. This can also include non-fusion options like into them or by Hawking Radiation. Often in the context of megastructures though, habitat to produce sunlight for the ecology. This may include traditional electric lighting source. This may orbit an unlit rogue planet, to produce in the form of Suntowers rising above the See our episode: Making Suns, for more details. Asteroid Colonies megastructures than a megastructure themselves, traditional planets several thousand to one, settings for them. The most likely megastructures in one, would areas, or next to it and enclosed in the mining The asteroid offers protection from space One special note, it is often suggested you live on the interior with spin-gravity. In practice, your typical asteroid is a loosely-bound rate. Instead, you would hollow it out, put a thin cylinder habitat inside that, rotating around Larger asteroids might contain hundreds of or later be turned into thin outer shells, as Buckyhabs. Such hollow shells would likely be far wider See also: Buckyhabs, Cylinder Habitats. Atlas Pillars who held up the sky itself, the Atlas Pillar to hold up the sky or repeating layer of land Typically envisioned inside Matrioshka Shellworlds, sea, and artificially lit, allow us to maximize using as living area. Atlas pillars could potentially be made of in compressive strength but would most likely accelerated materials ran. If technology permits, this may be magnetically-shielded no additional coolant or power input. Alternatively they might be built of very energy used to heat or even light the lower Strong ones may also hold artificial lighting up the atlas pillar, like leaves on a tree. They might also have spirals around their layers of a habitat. See Active Support, and Matrioshka Shellworld. Banks Orbital unique for its natural day length. Named for science fiction author Iain M. Banks, Phlebas, where they also have the nickname A Banks Orbital has all the normal features 3 ways. First, the required tensile strength vastly Second, it is large enough that it can have than its width or radius, allowing an open-air So you can fly your spaceship straight into on a planet but unlike a typical closed habitat. Third, there is a unique radius and spin rate desired gravity. A Banks orbital rotates once per day, and at an angle, to allow the sun to shine on of normal length and characteristics, including Seasons can also be emulated by tilting the The width of a Banks orbital is arbitrary, day, the ring's band width is expected to diameter. For an Earth-simulating diameter, every 48 represents an additional Earth's worth of In the case of Earth gravity and day length, million miles. This is the size typically under discussion we might call this a Terran Banks Orbital, and Day Length would be a Martian Banks Orbital, You might also have a Venutian or Lunar Banks The radius of such an orbital is proportional desired day length, thus a Venutian or Lunar as their days are much longer than Earth's. The Bernal Sphere concepts, having been proposed by John Desmond shell. They can be of any size the material's tensile was 5 miles or 8 kilometers in radius. This gives it 314 square miles or 803 square live on, and he estimated 20-30,000. This is essentially a pressurized sphere where be highest at the equator and non-existent Gerard K. O'Neill, known for the O'Neill 250 meter radius and 900 meter radius versions The Bernal Sphere would likely make use of as bands, with the widest at the equator, See also O'Neill Cylinder and Spin Gravity. Birch Planet the Orbital Ring for active support, suggested shells we might fill with matter to make artificial shellworlds, and he suggested these might as we find at the center of many galaxies. While those built around normal black holes built around these truly enormous galactic his honor. The one in the center of our own galaxy is or 1.3 Trillion Earth masses, and thus a single-layer own gravity, would have 1.3 trillion times does. This is considered the smaller end of Birch with 750 such layers would have one quadrillion They may also be built around bigger black You can feed nearly a trillion solar masses, its event horizon would extend out beyond surface, and thus would be the maximum limit conditions and built outside a black hole's As tidal forces near that black hole are minimal, inside that horizon either, effectively removing Though, in practice, frame-dragging would quite this size. A Maximum sized birch planet contains an entire of layers, potentially reaching over one sextillion, area. It is one of the few megastructures best measured larger ones can measure a light year wide. The Birch Planet is the largest known megastructure habitable Earth-like living area. Lower levels can have time running significantly distortion near the event horizon. Such habitats are essentially isolated Universes or nearly all of the matter in a region that for eons by slowly adding in mass to the black lighting of the habitat, probably via Suntowers. Birch Planets have an enormous escape velocity, are considered by the Channel to be one of home world of any civilization that would home, thus mining the entire galaxy out to Planet. A multi-layered Birch Planet can make the layers to achieve self-gravity without the See also: Banks Orbital, Black Hole Gravity or Suntower. Bishop Ring habitat proposed by Forrest Bishop in 1997 of materials such as carbon nanotubes and With a proposed radius of 1000 kilometers to India in size, at 3 million square kilometers and sea. While large enough to be an open air habitat, debatable if any point is served by not having walls all the way to the axis, or over top Its open air format is principally an acknowledgement not necessarily preferable. A Bishop Ring 1000 kilometers in radius would gravity, which might be slow enough for the night cycles, but this structure still requires by use of mirrors or powered lighting. We would anticipate a bishop ring would have on a wheel, for easier transport, and possibly the ring, which rotates at 3.1 kilometers spaceships at. Like many larger spin-gravity habitats the saving fuel for space ships docking or embarking. Bishop Rings would be large enough to serve a nature preserve for even the largest ecologies. See also: Carbon Nanotubes, Cylinder Habitat, Black Hole Gravity Generator natural occurring ones for Mega-Earths, can for artificial worlds. As a point-like object, it avoids normal problems modest asteroids to have earth-like surface gravity on truly enormous worlds such as Supramundane As with any natural gravity source, the amount is proportional to mass, thus a black hole as much surface area on the globe. Black holes do not eliminate the need for but they do allow less useful and hyper-abundant as opposed to carbon or iron, or potentially of mass in the Universe. While helium and hydrogen dumped into a black generated by dropping matter into a black higher than fusion could produce, thus minimizing See also: Birch Planet, Black Hole Power Generator, Planets. Black Hole Power Generator fashions, small ones typically by Hawking them and collecting the radiation coming off in the accretion disc. In all cases, the power produced tends to and thus is considerably more efficient as than the creation of the black hole, power As such black holes of various sizes may serve spaceship or personal space habitat to the and other constructs larger than Dyson Spheres. Because of their very efficient nature they 100 Megawatt Hawking Generator having a service of 1.9 Gigatons, able to generate comfortable Alternatively, drip feeding the Sun's mass 20% mass to energy conversion, at a rate of same energy as our Sun but for 3 Trillion sun's currently estimated remaining lifetime. If micro-black holes may be formed, rather they represent the best power source under a centerpiece of not only a civilization's center as a source of artificial gravity too. See our Black Hole Series for more discussions as well as weaponization. Bubblehab by buoyancy in an atmosphere and is essentially the size of a modern blimp to being continent-sized. On many worlds, such as Venus, you may have than air on Earth, thus allowing oxygen and of helium or hydrogen. Advanced materials may allow building materials even which are vacuums on the inside, and useful lifetime comparable to many building Bublehabs based around biotechnology might to buoyant coral reef or tree, or possibly See our episodes Void Ecology and Space Whales Buckyhabs to form a buckyball, forming a cage-like structure in trios at 60 hubs, forming a soccer ball This number of habs and edges is mostly noteworthy tied in with carbon nanotubes and graphene In practice we would expect people desiring of cylinder habitats connected together rather wider than was deemed optimal from experience. One composed of Island Three O'Neill Cylinders at 145,000 square kilometers or 90,000 square or Minnesota. Alternatively, one composed of McKendree Cylinders As Cylinder Habitats are likely to often have supplementary facilities, as well as benefiting arrangements are ideal for shared ancillary skin for protection, heat radiation, and solar Such polygon arrangements could easily be a smaller soccer ball inside the large one, habitats. BWC Megastructure is a nickname for those types of megastructures impractical enough that we would only expect Though in a system of potentially millions oddities might be built economically for their Examples include Cube-shaped and Disc Shaped they can have specialized values as, for instance, temperature, and weather at all points, ideal planet lacks, with frozen wastes at the poles. Needless to say what qualifies as a BWC Megastructure virtually all megastructures fall into this Caplan Thruster proposed by Matthew Caplan in 2019 for using solar wind in a beam out from a star, which Ramjet Assembly and jets of Oxygen-14 to push Shkadov Thruster would allow. See our episode: Fleet of Stars, for more stars. See also: Helios Drive, Nova Drive, Quasar Supernova Drive. Carbon Nanotube allotrope that along with Buckyballs, represent that, in the 1990s, popularized the idea we materials, such as space elevators and Bishop These are materials that are virtually impossible them and how much tension you place them under, as the foundation material for megastructures. For this reason, they are ubiquitous in discussion futurist topics. See also: Bishop Ring, Graphene, McKendree Chain Worlds hoop worlds or other torus-shaped habitats wrapping around a star. This has limited utility but would allow airplanes worlds. Airborne seeds or avians might also be able the hoops's atmosphere would be likely to intersections while the ground above and below Chandelier Cities of gas giants was explored in our episode: that tensile strength is every bit as reliable down from large orbital rings around a world suspended from the Ring. These might be common features on gas giants, and any other world where living on the surface Though the technology works on any world, Clarketech a feature of many proposed megastructures exceptional tasks, like wormhole networks. The name is derived from Arthur C. Clarke's technology is indistinguishable from magic", folks have suggested that would not seem possible seemingly impossibly-strong materials or other light systems and perpetual motion machines. See our episode: Clarketech, for more discussion See also: Unobtainium, Wormholes. Cube World worlds in general, classify as examples of Construction would require heavy use of Atlas would have their gravity highest at the middle 8 corners, furthest from the center. Gravity would also aim at that center rather strategic variation of density throughout might minimize the discrepancy of down not As with other flat worlds using normal gravity and water towards a spherical shape which Many other shapes, such as dodecahedrons or as cube worlds. See also Active Support, Atlas Pillars Cylinder Habitats are expected to be the megastructure the future, if humans remain a dominant species them. Cylinder Habitats operate on two critical First, that gravity can be mimicked by rotation, washing machine spin cycles use. Second, that it takes far less mass to build of naturally gravitating surface area on a Generally many hundreds of thousands of times materials, so that a world like Mars might Earth's worth of living area, not a fraction For a detailed explanation of how Spin Gravity see our episodes: O'Neill Cylinders and Life As discussed in those episodes, while cylinder freely in space, it is most likely to either or paired up with a twin cylinder, or several A Cylinder habitat is likely to be inside outer cylinder to provide shielding, or inside a superstructure. We expect them to make up the bulk of residential well as to be common features of any spaceship such as an interstellar ark ship. In such cases we often call the cylinder portion You can nest multiple habitation drums inside Size of cylinder habitats in terms of diameter terms of tensile strength, where conventional several kilometers wide, and graphene might known as a McKendree Cylinder. Unobtainium or Active Support might be used There is no maximum length to a Cylinder habitat, A Kardashev-2 civilization of humans seeking would require roughly a quadrillion such cylinder of thousands of people. See also: Banks Orbital, Bishop Ring, McKendree Rungworld, Topopolis, Unobtainium. Dark Sky Station in terms of mass, JP Aerospace's Dark Sky platform, potentially kilometers across that be a midway changeover point between ground These may see heavy usage on other types of See also: Sky Cities. Discworld as BWC megastructures, but in practice, a orbit of a star is not a particularly bad shellworld. While you get slightly less surface area per an extreme temperature difference between Thus a discworld might be considered optimal and ecology. As a BWC megastructure, it is only likely have so many artificial worlds of more efficient be probable anyway, such as a world of many a beach resort, or one given over entirely like a planet built principally for preserving, or the Amazon Rainforest. Discworlds have limits on how big they can night, and must have non-uniform radial mass at the ground not tilted to the center, with See our Megastructure series episodes Discworlds See also Active Support, Alderson Disc, Sombrero Dyson Sphere as a swarm of orbiting bodies around a star, as a hollow shell around a star that people than a billion times that of Earth. In the absence of some sort of artificial surface of such a shell and those inside would unless made of an impossibly-strong and rigid So too, there is no night time inside such Orbit from the Sun to avoid all those inside For this reason the Dyson Swarm is considered with some variations. First the inside could be a large solar collector artificial lighting, as an example of a Mega Second, a ring-shaped slice of Dyson Sphere around the star to produce artificial spin-gravity, A collection of many of these rings tilted Shell, or Ring-Dyson. It is also possible to create a very wide have lower gravity at higher latitudes than favor of rim walls and possibly having statite regions. This still requires incredibly strong materials except for the use of active support similar Such a partial sphere could be made wider the main sphere, and result in the same total Day and night shading can be accomplished sun mirrors and shades. Dyson Spike a rigid shell has been placed around a star, is not possible, and so the surface is dimpled spin gravity inside them. This setup can also work if the shell is a but to which a small portion is given over for people living in conjunction with a Nicoll-Dyson External spikes also allow better radiative See also: Dyson Sphere, Dyson Swarm, Matrioshka Dyson Swarm Dyson Sphere, he was discussing a large collection a star, rather than a rigid shell, however, people living inside it has been popularized A Dyson Swarm is the term we use to speak hollow shell. Such a swam could be composed of any single that most Dyson Swarm Civilizations - also use a large collection of many different types In this regard a Dyson Swarm is considered considered a building, which is to say, Dyson It is usually assumed that civilizations will every star eventually, though in practice, in favor of using them to power fusion reactors Nonetheless, spherical packing of habitats were outwardly identical to Dysons Swarms minimal travel times and communication lag, channel, the Dyson Dilemma. See our episode: Dyson Dilemma 2.0, for details. Ecumenopolis planet. This presumably would include dwarf planets, While usually assumed to turn an entire planet practice this is likely to be a world with in play. The main restriction on population is expected See our episodes Ecumenpolis and Can we have Edersphere Eder, is a balloon-like megastructure, typically Unlike most Active Support Supramundane Worlds, as it compresses, to resist the gravity of People live on that surface shell, which can potentially many hundreds of times larger The shell is likely to be thick steel or other or thin material, as at that scale, almost as a membrane. It is is likely that such a shellworld would as Orbital Rings or Atlas Pillars, that could or which could work in tandem with a pressurized than an Ederbubble alone might allow. See also Active Support, Atlas Pillar, Orbital Fusion Candles placed in orbit of a gas giant, designed to of the atmosphere, run it through a fusion out two super-heated rocket jets in opposite The lower levitates the platform while the By this method, you can move a gas giant to to move one closer into a system to warm its See our episode: Colonizing Jupiter, for more Graphene tensile strength whose discovery opened the rotating habitat megastructures far larger They have many other useful properties as Grav Plating that could be used in the floor of a spaceship without rotation. It is usually assumed to operate via unknown In practice the only known way to produce to create many charged micro-black holes and pattern. See our episode Moon: Mega City, for more Hammer Hab spin-gravity habitat where minimal living itself is suspended from a long tether that ship, itself in microgravity. It can also be paired to a twin with no hub, or docking spaceships on tether from a central Helios Drive Thruster that incorporates Starlifting Technology than a Shkadov Thruster but achieve a slower plasma as the drive. By turning mirrors towards a star instead like the Shkadov Thruster does, we can cause like a rocket flame. This technique works well for moving dangerously a region of space, as it takes far less time and also reduces the mass of that star, potentially A variation of this using Bussard Ramjets to provide more thrust is called a Caplan See also: Caplan Thruster, Shkadov Thruster, Hoop World classifies as a BWC, "Because we can" highly variable gravity over its surface as on the outside equator, and least on the inside gravity pulls in the opposite direction, and hoop world has no conventional north or south Storms on this planet, due to its high rate be extreme. The Default Hoop World of Earth-like conditions See our episode: Megastructures Hoop Worlds, Hydroshell the intent of maximizing the use of water materials in the Universe, while simultaneously A hydroshell is hollow like most shellworlds, the center, simply allowing the water itself As a result, the lowest layer at the shell top layer has the most, and pressure rises Hydroshells can be constructed to produce living space as a planet with the same overall See our episode: Oceans in Space: Marine Space See also: Shellworlds, Suntower. Interstellar Black Hole Highway accelerate and slingshot spaceships to interstellar used as hubs for interstellar travel, including fuel. As such there may be long lines of traffic holes in our galaxy, forming a highway network. Additionally, black holes make excellent power as pushing beams to accelerate or decelerate Interstellar Laser Highways mirrors allows solar sails to be far smaller and may be generated anywhere you can make With this is mind, any civilization with fusion of setting up long relays of laser-beaming rocket equation and allow rapid and far more fraction of light speed, and without the problems Nicoll-Dyson Beams focused over billions of This can be a large array of space stations galactic highway system, either receiving or merely as one passes by a star with a beaming The technique may also be adapted for intergalactic to achieve a ship velocity with a Lorentz a hundredth its normal speed for those on background radiation would represent to strong See our episode: Interstellar Highways, for See also: Interstellar Black Hole Highway, Jenkins Swarm to produce a Dyson Swarm around a star as of a larger swarm of donuts tilted at different This is believed to allow more stable orbits Kalpana One who died on the Space Shuttle Columbia, Kalpana of megastructures, taking advantage of the probably be limited to no more than 2 rotations Only structures in excess of 250 meters radius a full 1-g of Earth gravity, and so Kalpana with roughly half a square kilometer of surface of the surface area of Earth, and thus what contrast to a Mega Earth. However, with a mass of roughly 7 megatons, billion such habitats out of Earth's own the idea that cylinder habitats are vastly traditional spherical bodies. Kipping Terrascope of the refraction of planetary atmospheres a small telescope in orbit of a planet to Developed as a concept by exoplanet astronomer allow a telescope as small as a meter across, detect landmasses and mountain ranges. Such telescopes can also serve to enhance larger worlds such as gas giants. Lagite orbital mechanics which were suggested by 'Lagging Satellite' and 'Lagrange Point'. A lagite uses either light pressure or solar non-Keplerian orbit by using a combination wind to create normally impossible orbit paths, As with statite and quasites, this requires not necessarily as paper-thin as a typical They can be particularly useful for keeping where the gravity of the planet can be used into interstellar space. See also: Quasite, Shkadov Thruster, Statite. Lofstrom Loop by Keith Lofstrom in 1981, utilizes active high in the atmosphere, to serve as a launchpoint The metal track running inside the loop by to the ship as it accelerates, which in turn or nuclear power plants on the ground or on A Lofstrom loop may be lowered or raised to with known technology for perhaps as little just $3000 per ton. It is a very parallel technology to the larger See our episode: Launch Loops for more details. See also: Active Support, Orbital Ring. MagMatter may be possible to create if magnetic monopoles the construction of megastructures whose tensile such as Banks Orbitals and Niven Ringworlds. Magmatter is expected to have a strength a conventional matter and a density many trillions For this reason, we would expect magmatter It is also assumed to have a melting point a whipcord of it could cut through any known It is usually assumed it would be formed as nanotubes. See also Carbon nanotubes and graphene. Matrioshka Brain structure and the general concept of a computer an entire star. The Matrioshka portion, named for the famous successive layers of a stellar engine, each waste heat of the prior layer to run more Stars themselves are not radiating fusion hot from absorbing all the fusion byproducts off sunlight rather than gamma radiation. One might place processing layers at each is positioned to absorb the blackbody radiation corresponding to half the temperature of the between the typical star's first layer and would result in diminishing returns from additional As colder computation is more efficient and engine to move a star, it has been proposed to the galactic rim or intergalactic space A Matrioshka Brain though, is also a bit of star-levels of power and can generally be times more powerful than any modern computer, per unit of energy occurred in the future. As such, it is believed to be powerful enough minds of the inhabitants of that Universe, current Earth-like conditions and populations. See our episode: Megastructures: Matrioshka See also: Dyson Sphere, Planet Brain, Shkadov Matrioshka Shellworld use immense amounts of mass to create gravity, those using hypothetical artificial gravity. Two methods for handling this are to generate such as hydrogen and helium, or even dark The other method is to construct many nested share the mass below for gravity, which can the mass of each additional layer to generate Spacing and support may be maintained with lighting and you cannot support many layers This is considered one of the more probable Matrioshka Shellworlds, for more discussion. A multi-layered Planet can make the lowest to achieve self-gravity without the central See also: Active Support, Atlas Pillars, Shell McKendree Cylinder in 2000, represent the adaptation of an Island instead of steel for the cylinder, allowing longer. The default version is 5 million square miles Russia or Antarticia, and larger than Europe megastructure. What's more, a McKendree Cylinder is wide inside, so long as cooling is used to handle McKendree Cylinders to roughly match entire Megatelescope Arrays is Earth itself, as air and gravity deform Space Based telescopes avoid these issues the size of planets, to be created, able to ones can see our own moon or neighboring planets. In addition, telescope arrays may be built the distances that Earth's own orbit around parallax. Using these methods, we may be able to pick or see exoplanets in great detail, thousands See our episode: Megatelescopes, for more Mini-Earth Earth, is to go smaller, and since the amount on the surface of a sphere is proportional economics for mass, would at least seem to between making one world a thousand times the size of Earth, or a million worlds a thousandth Assuming micro black holes the mass of a modest to make orbital rings which are smaller than planets might turn out to be a preference. There are some difficulties making sure your a thin glass or transparent aluminium shell be easier to engineer than the world itself. As to the minimum size, hypothetically, nothing These need not be spherical either, as discs when contrasted to a sphere that is sharply Mushroom Hab for the episode: Colonizing Mercury, where sunlight, a large reflective umbrella shade stands above the ground, on top of thermally This allows the habitat to remain cool, even The umbrella may also be used for power collection. The habitat may also include spin-gravity world has lower surface gravity than desired. A mushroom habitat may also be used in orbit from sunlight, such as a habitat being used tend solar collectors or stellasers dangerously two types, these are called orbital mushroom See also Rotacity Habitat, Parabolic Habitat. Neptunian Chainsaw atmosphere of gas giants, ice giants, or gas airless worlds, suggest a number of methods excavator with buckets running on an elliptical This concept is first discussed in our episode: gets it the name of the Neptunian Chainsaw. Nicoll-Dyson Beams Dyson Swarm, suggested by James Nicoll, as There's a number of methods for doing this, of any Dyson that it should be able to direct but a Nicoll-Dyson Beam is essentially a Death It should be noted that even our Sun's entire roughly a week to vaporize the entire planet. Those around larger stars might be able to mere moments. Its peacetime use is assumed to be pushing it is likely its military use would be accelerating to near lightspeed over some weeks, to arrive a planet directly. See also RKMs, Stellaser. Nova Drive the supernova drive, are a method of moving a stream of hydrogen to them to cause a small This is a parallel technology to the Orion only vastly bigger. See our episode: Fleet of Stars, for more O'Neill Cylinder the 'Island Three design' by Gerard K. designed for habitation. It is a cylinder habitat usually given as or 32 kilometers long, and this O'Neill or serve as a nature preserve for endangered from invasive species and contamination. They are probably the most-discussed megastructure and Life on board an O'Neill Cylinder. See also: Cylinder Habitat, McKendree Cylinder. Orbital Plates parallel to a Sky City that we would anticipate domed island might be floated as a spaceport size of continents, able to float above a In practice this can be achieved through various conventional orbiting habitat that's plate-shaped, used for creating discworlds, if a dense enough neutronium. They have appeared in a variety of science from the Warhammer 40k setting, where Orbital and industrialized worlds. Orbital Ring discussed on this show, for its utility both backbone of many enormous megastructures such A type of Active Support structure proposed is a simple wire wrapped in orbit in a circle Outside of this is a thin tube, called the contains electromagnets. We then run power through the rings and shove speeds, while slowing that outer sheath. By default, we will stop the sheath when its as Earth, causing the outer sheath to remain satellite but potentially mere tens of kilometers tens of thousands. Orbital rings may then drop a tether down than a conventional space elevator. These may also be stretched out at angles, around the Orbital Ring. Using these as guy-wires allows the Ring to latitudes and counter its tendency to precess. This allows travel to space for dollars per a Lofstrom Loop, to launch a spaceship without than the Lofstrom Loop Allows. Orbital Rings may be built as ellipses as rings at different distances from Earth, possibly next lowest ring. They allow hypersonic travel between cities millions of people to travel to space everyday, commuting times and costs. They may be used in tandem with space elevators Orbital rings of much higher radius can be to serve as a ladder to deeper space, what confused with Jacob's Ladder, which along alternate names for Space Elevator options. The Orbital Ladder, as an alternative to a Orbital Rings, has the advantage of requiring These may be built arbitrarily big, and many shell known as a shell world. See our episode: Orbital Rings, for more discussion See also Active Support, Atlas Pillar, Lofstrom Paperclip Maximizer of artificial intelligence run amok, the notion told to maximize its production of paperclips, - including the planet it is on, and the people This can follow many unexpected paths, see more. This popular idea is basically that any automated amok if left unchecked. Simple self-replicators told to reproduce reference to an assumed sea of gray metal. Terraforming machinery set loose on a galaxy, alien worlds - into copies of Earth, or entire and sometimes called Greenfly. Given that megastructures are often assumed there is a regular concern of such machinery Parabolic Hab we usefully survive on sunlight? and a parabolic they were designed in tandem with the Mushroom Earth typically receives on an order of several surface area throughout the daytime, and any a hundred times the sun-gathering surface, However, as only very thin films are needed to construct a parabolic dish hundreds of to focus light down into that habitat, or into the habitat. The dish itself is likely to rotate to maintain Solar power collectors can also be made to cheap and light-reflecting dishes to focus By default, we would expect a cylinder habitat an umbrella or mushroom with a skinny stalk, Utilizing Statite, Lagite, and Quasite concepts, bodies such as planets or moons, by using to hang one at a Lagrange Point or Quasi-Lagrange Such mirrors and dishes can also be used for transport, including by focusing light on of superheated steam from it to serve as a See also: Helios Drive, Lagite, Mushroom Habitat, Planet Brain Brain, are a blanket term for a computer the Douglas Adams Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. It is assumed such machines either run minds answers to the most fundamental questions, though in that case it was seeking the question Planet Ship to serve as immense interstellar or intergalactic This is typically intended around an entirely ark is deemed insufficient to the goals, which for a multi-million year intergalactic colonization used for moving an existing planet, like Earth, However, artificial worlds, such as a shellworld built to allow for better acceleration and well as shielding from interstellar radiation See our episode: Planet Ships and What if For more details. Planet Swarm Swarm, in that it is a large swarm of habitats than a star. See: Colonizing CisLunar Space, for more discussion As Cislunar Space and even beyond the Moon, wider than Earth, the cross section for solar than a hundred thousand times that of the hold several trillion people, a Planet Swarm In conjunction with a Terran Ring, which it might contain more people than most hypothetical the majority of humanity lives even if we and thousands of nearer systems. See also: Dyson Swarm, Ecumenopolis, Terran Planetary Cycler who proposed it for an Earth-Mars Cycler, megastructure habitats, that move on a very on a long cycle. They themselves do not orbit those planets inside them as they approach that planet, As they need only the original fuel to get they can afford more massive vessels protection support with a multitude of systems of redundancy for the long voyages between worlds, or even See our episode: Interstellar Trade and Cyclers, Power Beamers immense power, and that may require moving from generator or collector, to the user. Power beaming systems can come in many forms huge solar array that converts sunlight into a tight beam to a rectenna receiver. Fundamentally, how far you can keep a beam and the ability to gather a beam as it spreads see some truly massive beaming and receiving systems or even further. Quasar Drive drive, capable of moving planets or entire large objects, being both faster than a Shkadov more efficient, allowing faster final speeds. The quasar drive takes a charged black hole, around it to attach to it magnetically, and as is typical for a large-scale black hole This is then used to run a drive able to achieve The name 'Quasar drive' is derived from typically thousands of times brighter than into the black holes in the centers of many Used carefully, a Quasar Drive on a supermassive move that galaxy, especially if used in tandem gravitationally dragging that galaxy along, to counteract hubble expansion in a large Planet Ships using Quasar Drives represent of even galaxies more than a billion light See our episode: Fleet of Stars, for more See also: Planet Ships, Shkadov Thruster. Quasite by David Kipping in 2019 as a possible technosignature in the form of a statite that had become dirty fashion. Quasites can also be intentionally made to when not normally permissible by orbital mechanics. See the cool worlds episode for more details See also: Lagite, Statite. Red Globular Clusters is an example of an artificially-optimized one quarter our Sun's mass can fuse all becoming blue dwarfs, and thus are the most The notion developed by Isaac Arthur and Steve work to only allow stars of that mass to form into a tight space, so that the entire area for life. A dyson swarm composed of as much as a trillion trillions of people for trillions of years, years across, not hundreds of thousands, allowing between most distant elements than between Eventually the dying stars themselves, as now, can be shepherded into black holes of See the original entry at Orion's Arm for Relativistic Kill Missile the mass energy of objects moving at relativistic times more damage potential than a nuclear They have the advantage over beam weapons can have computers and guidance onboard, potentially In this way, something like a Nicoll-Dyson planet, can instead put a week's worth of may be timed to arrive simultaneously and Ribbon Worlds Habitats that base their size around the minimum to what's comfortable for normal humans be far bigger than conventional 1-g habitats These may be common as an outer ring around and launch systems, and secondary conventional like beads on a bracelet, where those other or commercial centers. Ribbon Worlds might also be commonly used sufficient for plants and economics prefers Civilizations adapted to lower gravity might The largest Ring Habitats would likely always A Ribbon World built around the Earth-Moon a Lunar Space Elevator might reach, would the ribbon at 1-g of turning acceleration second. See also: Cylinder Habitat, Ring Habitat, Ring Habitat cylinder habitats, by using centrifugal force A ring habitat however, generally uses a wide strength than a cylinder habitat of the same where a wider radius is necessary. In the case of small habitats, we expect rings the goal is to produce a relatively small many RPMs can cause nausea. On large habitats, such as a Niven Ringworld, distance, and for a Banks Orbital, to produce sunlight. See: cylinder Habitats, for further discussion Ringworld novel: Ringworld, as his suggested alternative slice of such a sphere around a Star and rotate That results in a Ring roughly the radius The typical design calls for giant rim walls out, taller than any mountain range, potentially the width of the Ringworld, which may be arbitrarily miles wide, giving the Ringworld 3 million One built 6 times wider would have roughly Dyson Sphere, and a hundred such objects turned enclose one to effectively serve as a Dyson Niven Ringworlds are normally assumed to be book's case, the virtually indestructible around this for both Ringworlds and Banks This is done by having a second, slower turning habitation ring in which it spins inside, to keep from being torn apart. For further explanation of this technique, see our episode: Ringworlds. See also: Dyson Sphere, Ring Habitat, Rungworld. Rotacity envisioned as a habitat built inside a crater and spun, to combine the natural local gravity the bowl shape. In practice, if the gravity of the world or the desired gravity is, the bowl shape will a more classic cylinder habitat. It can also be a wide ring with the floor natural down. These may see use on Mars or even the Moon. See also: Cylinder Habitat. Rungworld Ringworld that can be constructed around a In it we place two tethers in a circular orbit Between these we place classic cylinder habitats, the ladder itself being twisted into a circle These habitats might be O'Neill Cylinders Much as several Ringworlds, each tilted at Rungworlds may be built with slightly different So too, empty space between Rungs can be filled A Topopolis may also be substituted for the Additionally a Rungworld may skip the appearance a mesh format or even the more three dimensional See also: McKendree Cylinder, O'Neill Cylinder, Shellworld mass by building a thin rigid shell, akin with a more abundant source of mass, such Such a shell is usually assumed to be made Active Support techniques like Orbital Rings, surface tension, and gas pressure, like the Most often, we imagine millions of orbital with a shell and land and sea above, and below as a white dwarf, neutron star, or black hole. In particular, black holes of sub-stellar of any given size, bigger or smaller than on the surface. These can vary in size from a modest park the Birch Planet, and additional layers may Matrioshka Shellworld. See our episodes: Mega Earths and Shellworlds, See also: Active Support, Black Hole Gravity Shellworld, Mega Earth, Mini-Earth, Orbital Shkadov Thruster designed for using a star's own power to mirrors or statites which reflect light in With this method, stars can be slowly accelerated Bigger stars accelerate faster as they have small dwarfs can attain higher ultimate speeds fuel. All versions are slow though, and because minor difference in effort to move them across to simply moving them a few systems over. See our episode: Shkadov Thruster and Fleet Sky Cities floating cities that hang in the air via buoyancy approaches such as Orbital Plates. These might be individual homes, cities, floating Station, or even continent-sized affairs on Materials able to hold hydrogen or helium may make these options vastly more economic By and large, these structures are necessarily One example is the Cloud Nine Sphere, which stronger as they get bigger, to use large a habitat that's shaped like a soccerball. See our episodes Cloud Cities and Colonizing See also: Dark Sky Station, Orbital Plates. Skyhooks tether that hangs from orbital heights to to, in order to save launch fuel. They come in both stationary and rotating elevator, relying on tensile strength. A skyhook loses momentum when giving it to but if larger, can slowly regenerate momentum electrodynamic tethering. Skyhooks are a launch assist technology, typically either hypersonic spaceplanes, Lofstrom Loops, See our episode: Skyhooks, for more details. See also: Lofstrom Loop, Space Elevator. Smoke Ring we encounter a naturally-occuring gas cloud, zone as a wide torus of breathable air with This may also be constructed as a megastructure, comparable to a Dyson Swarm, and specifically This concept also arises in Peter Hamilton's floating through this immense star-encompassing We could conceive a civilization with either micro-blackholes and Mini-Earths, filling islands whose gravity would keep the air in space, or we might see a vast, transparent See also: Dyson Swarm, Jenkins Swarm. Solar Mirrors amounts of light onto a planet, power collector, incredible thinness of reflective materials megastructures and planets in general. A single micron thick sheet of a metal, polished the light coming in on a megastructure habitat In this way small asteroids, which number into a shade able to significantly alter a and indeed a statite dyson shell around a of a modest-sized moon. Solar Mirrors are also instrumental in stellaser worlds or driving spaceships. See also: Parabolic Habitat, Solar Shades, Solar Shades mirrors, allowing planets to be cooled, or while making use of simple and cheap technology. Any material that can be woven thin allows the typical megastructure even when of gargantuan While these can be employed as single large ones would be used together instead. Additionally, in some cases, it may be considered than flat sheets, such as filling a L-1 Lagrange its metastable region or floating mirror-topped the area below, rather than placing them in and lagite orbits. See our episode: Winter on Venus, for discussion See also: Lagite, Parabolic Habitat, Solar Sombrero Planet is an attempt to manage the difficulty of the disc but toward the center, by making the end, and by having a bulge near the center. See also Disc World. Space Elevator hanging from space, relying on tensile strength, relying on compressive strength, but tensile in modern times, typically expected to be Because a mechanical climber can use electricity cable, cost for ascent to orbit is almost A Space Elevator typically would run to above would be able to exit at interplanetary speeds, than orbital speed at that point. They are most easily built at the equator, tethers may extend up from north and south orbit. A severed elevator tether will see the top Earth, though given that virtually all of a break in the atmosphere would most likely could be reconnected and the lower end to from a tower, possibly slowed by a parachute. See our episode: Space Elevators, for more See also: Carbon Nanotubes, Graphene, Skyhook, Space Farm principally devoted to agriculture in space, all it may be lower and the habitat may be to be mostly hydroponics or thin soil full Space farms are an option for worlds such the planet requires less energy and waste We would also expect them to be an ancillary humans may be grown while leaving the primary Indeed these may also be used to supplement of habitats to have a higher wildlife population essentially bird and squirrel feeders. The Space farm itself might be attached to for workers or livestock or both. Space Farms are likely to be one of the most See our episode: Space Farming, for more discussion. See also: Ecumenpolis. Spin Gravity force inside a spinning structure, be it a gravity for most practical purposes. Typically the larger the spinning structure, Spin gravity relies on the premise that Einstein's that acceleration and gravity are effectively It is also the reason why people on the space acceleration around Earth is precisely countering See also Cylinder Habitat and Ring Habitat. Space Tower utilize active support to keep impossibly above an atmosphere and even up to geostationary Technologically they function on the same Atlas Pillar, one of their greatest values as colossal skyscrapers on their own. Though, given that such a space tower might equal to an entire continent, a space tower own right and home to entire civilizations. See also: Active Support, Atlas Pillar, Space Stanford Torus Cylinder, there is no more popular recognizable Megaton donut 1.8 kilometers or 1.1 miles This diameter was chosen to be well inside for Earth-like 1-gee gravity at 1 rotation The Innerside of the torus is clear to allow the hub which is connected by spokes to the ships to dock at. Secondary mirrors around the hub direct sunlight cycle. It was designed as a comfortable home for megastructures, it is assumed to have a number space farms. See also: O'Neill Cylinder, Space Farms. Starlifting mine the stars themselves, by magnetically of a star, often by also stimulating more Our sun is mostly hydrogen and helium, but the planets in our Solar system combined, Star Lifting apparatus is itself a megastructure Dyson Swarms of habitats without needing to It also allows the colonization of stars lacking Furthermore, it allows the removal of helium well as the lowering of stellar mass to extend supernova, and forms the backbone of some Thruster or Helios Drive. See our episode: Starlifting, for more details applications. See also Caplan Thruster, Dyson Swarm, Helios Statite who suggested the name in 1993 as a mix of A Statite is able to hang directly above a orbit. These make use of the radiant pressure of to the Sun, to hover in place by balancing the gravity of the Sun. A Statite must be carefully balanced in terms float further away or fall closer, and thus its cross section and tilt to allow it to a solar sail. The critical factor of statite function is the statite is, and this will generally be As the strength of light and gravity both from the Sun, a statite of a given surface from its star, however it would not function to mass ratio. Statites are far easier to make function around - than they are around less massive dwarf 100 in mass but more than a billion in brightness Variations of these can also use magnetics to sunlight or in combination with them. So too, the use of focused sunlight from solar statites. See also: lagite, quasite. Stellar Pinwheel a vacuum, propelled by sunlight bouncing on a statite could spin like a pinwheel driven power. One hanging above the pole of a star could causing it to be reabsorbed and re-emitted. Such devices might be used with some versions Stellaser enormous mirrors inside a star's corona for any enormous laser powered by a star. The Stellaser is the brainchild of Steve Nixon, in a star's corona to serve as a lasing Large thin simple mirrors are deployed near possibly as close to a star as they can be Light from the stellar body bounces between corona to generate a laser in the normal method. Such a beam can be both enormously powerful it ideal for propelling lightsail craft. The term has become a catchall on the channel a star and drawing power off it, including the original concept was discussed in more Spaceships using Stellaser propulsion would speed, and could be slowed at their destination ahead of an arriving colonization fleet, as from conventional radiant pressure before to slow the main fleet, as discussed in our As such, they represent a possible keystone Their potential value for terraforming or Suntower amounts of energy to a planet and a number amounts of heat in the atmosphere. A Suntower is one such way of getting around day length, by building super-towers on a mirrors at the top that a light beam could In this way, like a water wheel, a planet towers as it turned to speed or slow planetary Similar methods can be used to push a planet axial tilt. It is also possible to mount a rocket engine of such towers, to avoid atmospheric heating, of particles could be directed. Suntower is also used for very tall towers for keeping a layer of a habitat lit or the In some cases, such as a vertical reef for might glow its whole length and it may be light from elsewhere. See also: Stellaser. SupraMundane Worlds megastructures where, typically an existing with orbital rings or ribbons or enclosed but one dozens or even hundreds of times bigger. Saturn for instance has the right mass and its atmosphere it would make for a planet surface gravity as Earth. Supramundane Worlds can have micro-black holes assumed to be around gas giants or brown dwarfs, deuterium to provide power via fusion reactors. Larger ones must be egg-shaped and have their relatively uniform gravity if you are spinning force at the equator is neutralized by the equator. See our episode: Mega Earths, for more discussion See also: Mega Earth, Mini-Earth, Shellworld. Terran Ring represents the easiest region of space to it is plausible that the ring or torus swept densely populated and first-developed region It is potentially economically viable to have in such a ring so that a very dense population Indeed, actual tethers could be maintained in such a ring, to allow rapid cable car transport This may develop alongside or eventually into Such cables, if strong enough, could link or orbital ring arrangements. See also: Orbital Ring, Planet Swarm, Rungworld, Topopolis to us, if long enough compared to its diameter, even a solid steel beam as thick as a human, The Topopolis takes this a step further and that's thousands or even millions of times an entire star, or in theory, between two In this way, the Topopolis can potentially Supraself for living area and requires no By default, a Topolis can be pictured as a down it, and the local areas wrapped around The 'width' might be comparable to an or whatever your technology permits. See our Topopolis episode for more details See also: Birch Planet, Dyson Swarm, McKendree Unobtanium in theoretical scientific or sci-fi discussion inside modern known science. This might be a stable transuranic element possessed of a property we would not expect to emit gravitons. See also Clarketech. Valley House on airless or low-gravity, thin-aired worlds parallel to domed cities. To be megastructures these would cover valleys or Noctis Labyrinthus on Mars. Worldhouse domes on a planet, such as Mars, have encompassed or perhaps even a single crystal sphere has in. This may be an early state of a planet during arrangement for low gravity or lower escape an open atmosphere might be difficult. Wormhole the speed of light that would likely be a build. Wormholes and Wormhole Networks represent travel that would supersede Interstellar Black with Interstellar Laser Highways for inter-system See our episode Wormholes in our faster than series for more discussion of how civilizations warp drives, hyperspace, and other hypothetical So we'll be getting to our schedule of future and show notes, but first I wanted to also of the future, they're not just a thing We have many already and indeed have been of why I'm so confident the vast structures If you're curious for more on megastructures, by the Bay and the Roman Megastructures over of our past and present. Also, even though this episode is almost 4 our show it's updating, we did miss a critical In that episode I made a case for why megastructures use and in the context of why scifi authors than always planets. Today's episode is already way too long on Nebula, so I'm just going to give that Planets vs Megastructures. Nebula is our streaming service created to not be at the whim of Youtube's algorithms It is the largest creator-owned streaming content is up there, ad and sponsor free, We also release an extended edition or two like our coexistence with aliens series, and It's a great way to help support some of content. Now you can subscribe to Nebula all by itself the home of thousands of great educational Bay and the Roman Megastructures. So we can offer Nebula for free as a bonus link in our episode description. That lets you see the amazing content on Curiositystream use the link in the episode's description. So this episode obviously ran longer than of work and I wanted to thank my wife Sarah who helped on the script clean up as it ran a proper transcript and subtitles on the episode, every episode since has. Another thing that the original didn't have, credit roll at the end, something that's I wanted to mention that because over the to editing or animating or letting us use show, and we always put those folks in our and thanks. Amusingly today is the first time we've wasn't a collab episode with another show, episodes before today and yet weirdly, for no other narrator. Anyway I wanted to thank all those folks who've and to the 470 other entries on our big chronology episodes and livestreams and collabs, I know 346 but I only count the regular Thursday my production week numbering these days. I also wanted to say a big thank you to the International Space Development Conference I'd been set to attend 2 years back and Covid came and so two years later I finally original topic of Megastructures seemed a You can catch the recording of that talk too livestream Q&amp;A. So too, a lot of that first episode's original futuristic ideas and structures at Orion's content for a couple decades now, with both their Encyclopedia Galactica, but also with with life in the future and often on such All right, that wraps us up for today but episode, the Silurian Hypothesis, coming up This is the concept that some ancient civilization dwelt on Earth long ago. We will also ask what would remain of humanity's if we suddenly died off. And two weeks from now, we'll be looking we'll begin our two-part story of traveling concluding with Life as a Planetary Explorer. We'll pause between those two episodes to how humanity can still settle the stars even less than 1% of light speed, and what that One more thanks, and that's to all of our You've made the show possible, whether it or snail mail or Nebula, and I'm beyond This show wouldn't exist with out your support. For anyone who would like help support future which we've recently relaunched new and linked in the episode description, along with and discord, where you can chat with others ideas. And thanks to all the admins and moderators And don't forget to like this episode and below. As always, thanks for watching, and have a