My happiness just exploded--basically and simplify my life. Minimalism and slow living, world. If we look at the environment or how we, as and animals, I think it's a very needed change. be and what we have to do. But do we actually we are? Can we just experience this human life, We are already enough. We are already perfect. things in our lives to feel that we are happy or It's not something that, once you figure your life. You need constant reminders because Welcome to the Handprints Podcast, where we positive impact--we have upon ourselves and the with Seve, the founder of Sunny Kind Journey. Seve inspires thousands of people to live more If you want to simplify your life and experience Thank you so much for showing me Temper and especially here. And thank you for It's the first podcast episode ever, This is my first time ever being on We're here today to talk about slow living, you because you have a beautiful YouTube channel there's so much inspiration there for everyone. On your website, one of the first to human being.&quot; What does that mean? I first heard it. I can't remember, but it was I really wanted to understand it better--what that myself. Little by little, I started Then, with my partner, we were thinking about about. And we were like, &quot;Hey, you It's exactly about stopping this constant be doing. It's not necessarily about focusing on but just realizing that we are already have to do these crazy, extraordinary feel enough for others and for ourselves. I think it's such a nice phrase, and it's the term we use for our species. At the norm anymore. To me, the norm is what you Why do you think that is? conversation that goes back into history. I think we needed to be doing something all the time, We are seen as better human beings if we think it came from that. Challenging that as much as other people, you're often You're not seen as a good person; instead, hurt your self-esteem and self-confidence. But it That has been a very powerful message in my life, not something that, once you figure it out, stays because society is telling us the exact opposite. Well, it's a long story, I guess. I've been want to buy anything unnecessary--I always a lot of things. I always had that mindset. and consumerism didn't bring happiness to me. What traveling abroad, meeting new people, and making while the expensive sweater I bought last should I spend my time, energy, or money on This mindset started developing around didn't need so many things to be happy, so I of course. Minimalism is a journey or process; to become more powerful in my early twenties. this lifestyle--how much happier it made me and I did own and the relationships I had--it became share this message with others through YouTube, Society always tells us to want more, to need becomes internalized. How can we determine what we That's a great question. I think there Physically, if you have trouble staying still that's one sign. For me, though, it felt overstimulated--that's a term describes my experience. Sometimes, I still When I feel like I must keep going, like that's the moment I know I need to do the feel this overwhelming need to keep going, it's It's so important to understand yourself responses--and then go from there. It's feel much stress in my life, and I'm not That's because I'm good at pushing through doesn't mean it's smart or that I should. it come from? I'm not really sure. about my own thought patterns and how I'm What's the relationship between I think those are very connected--at least, from countries like ours, in Europe or the U.S., about fast living, and minimalism isn't the norm Minimalism and slow living act as which I believe is where happiness comes from. society is so fast-paced and materialistic, But simplifying your life doesn't mean master the art of slow living forever. It's more life that steer you in that direction, fast-paced, consumer-driven lifestyle take over. impact. My happiness skyrocketed after I started You mentioned it's not just about What are some other habits or practices? is part of it, and it's important, but it's goes beyond your physical space. most significant aspect. They're crucial for Without them, it's easy to feel overwhelmed all for me. I've been practicing it daily for about I also go on regular walks--slow, mindful walks. one-size-fits-all solution. I can suggest things with unique life situations. Meditation might For example, running is another important practice For them, it's the opposite of mindfulness. entirely that works for them. today is the importance of sleep. Sleep is often extra time, but I don't think that's ever a good day or two, but if you're consistently sacrificing hobbies, or something else--your physical if you adopt minimalism or other good habits, happiness and life satisfaction. slow living can fit any lifestyle. I've noticed is that in the beginning, minimalism discovered minimalism seven or eight years ago, everything. It felt like such a relief for the to how they were before. I realized I was equally So, I think it was important for me to see I was wondering a bit how to incorporate want to manage your stress, but maybe you and lots of ambition. You really want to go health and happiness, you see the value of slow I think it all comes down to your mindset. If that way every day and cannot be anything else, living itself, which is about recognizing That mindset is the first thing to to do this and believe it's the only way you you're already heading in the wrong direction. situation. It is what it is, and that's it. to work long hours and it's very tough, but then that's what you have to do. Beating person because you have to do this Accepting your situation is key. Then, I with tiny habits. These small, daily habits are Don't try to change everything at the same time. declutter 90% of your possessions right away. before work to do something that calms you can do. I once heard Tony Robbins say, &quot;If life.&quot; If you can't find 10 minutes in your Taking those 10 minutes just for understand what gives you good feedback, what make adjustments. Don't think that in order all your possessions or go on monthly meditation It's about changing your mindset help others better. Find a couple of ways At Handprints, we use a tool called a tracker where you list the things you aim to your happiness and fulfillment. Then, to create pressure, but to build awareness. would look like. You've mentioned sleep you try to do every day or every week? because I noticed you have a video called Your being productive and working toward your own To-do lists are something I use daily. important it is to set goals and work toward we can end up doing whatever feels right at the That's why I think to-do lists are helpful, but must be followed no matter what. They're more like I think this approach relates to focused and intentional, even if it can feel a Some other things I do are taking a lot of pauses minute breaks between classes. But when you're a content creator, or an entrepreneur, you don't &quot;Hey, maybe you've been working too much. You have to understand this for yourself, and it's take multiple walks and completely disconnect from lie on the sofa, and try to empty When it comes to diet, being vegan but I guess that's something for another Social interactions are very important. As like I am, it's crucial to have those if possible, during it. I aim to meet people a simple phone call can make a difference. connections are, if not the most important, Unfortunately, loneliness is prevalent in our lonely, and if they could just come together, That's why I try every day to connect with connections--like we are doing right now. I want like-minded human beings. doing something I love: hiking in nature. I I also felt quite lonely. This speaks to It's easy to think, "I love doing this," when I've fantasized about spending a month happy. But when I did that, I missed social This is the key: incorporating a every day, creating a healthy balance. a positive impact on our footprint, in terms impact do they have on our handprint? Handprint making the world less worse but about having a How do you see slow living I think it's a way to create a new narrative anything at all? Or can we just be whatever we are Should we follow all the social expectations set I use slow living to challenge these norms. That's difficult but bring fresh perspectives. work, physical possessions, obligations, and us that you can live with quite little. You don't And why I like this is because I believe I can be That's why I enjoy being a content creator--I do the same. I think minimalism and slow living If we look at the environment or how we act in and everything around us--I think this is a very Do you have any thoughts on how we could turn it seems to me that the people who discover norm. It's often people who've had certain life path. That means many people might never even What role could society, schools, or other for everyone--not to force it, but to I think it's something we definitely should be part of group conversations. I'm much about it directly, but I think the they are. That's already a starting point. with this, but beyond that, it's about creating living communities, minimalist communities, I believe my YouTube channel is one small already is--or will become--a community, whether we can empower the people within them and also Of course, this has to come from us, the who understand and want to join these communities, adopt new mindsets, and share their to force anyone into this. don't believe forcing people is the right understand its power, it has to be their If I were to create a one-minute video probably be shaking because I'd be so nervous! Kindness and compassion are values that are very Behind this minimalism and slow living is the environment, animals, and all beings. each other. That's what I would focus on. channel, Sunny Kind Journey, which is a very light and positivity; it's about that. &quot;Kind&quot; one another. And &quot;Journey&quot; reflects the idea journey. No matter what you try to achieve always learning new things, becoming better The closing tradition we're establishing the person we're speaking with to give a task You've mentioned starting with just one habit give one task to help someone get started on a That would be something that has really but incredibly effective. Be more conscious to just breathe and focus on that. Don't think or what happened yesterday or five minutes ago. coming in and going out for five minutes. and as a result, you can make much better activities. You'll feel so much better. This Thank you so much. It was a delight interviewing didn't ruin it because the so nice for me to hear your thoughts. hears it because you're just confirming go all in on this. Minimalism is supposed to be Don't go too extreme." She's going to love this Thanks! It's really been nice to be have so many memories--my grandfather's