Our family arrived in this great time of the pilgrims. They religious freedom and life for their children. The story I tell begins two days While living in Sharon, Vermont, blessed with a son. We called him Joseph, after Supper's ready! It is thought by some that I incidents which attended nothing occurred during his trivial circumstances which are human existence. My husband farmed in the summer the winter. We worked hard, and raised Let's see. Thank you, Catherine. Yesterday we were reading Our family consisted Alvin was the oldest and a hero Hyrum, our second oldest. They, special in their younger We all did. God gives us power over the face of it. All of us have sinned and fall Therefore, we must repent It is the only path Mr. Smith, a word please. You seem to be a God-fearing your family in my congregation It seems that preacher nowadays God too much, and trust You're a difficult I don't mean to be. I'm just concerned for Alvin, have you ever need to do to be saved? You worry too much, But I need to know. Well, you remember that found at Uncle Jesse's? Yeah. Well, some small creature Layer by layer until they Maybe God intends for us to I just-- I can't believe he'd only want If you embrace false doctrine, darkness all your life. The Bible teaches that to salvation, Joseph. Study the word of God, truth of what I say. With his mind considerably search for answers, a search even for those much older than education he never had. I was one day reading the &quot;If any of you lack wisdom, let came with great force I reflected upon them At length, I came to the James directs, that It was on the morning of a the spring of 1820. I kneeled down and began to heart to God. I was seized upon by some power, the unseen world. Exerting all my strength saw a pillar of light. When the light rested upon One of them spake unto me. Joseph, this is my beloved I am Jesus Christ. I saw God the Father, and his reality, speak to me. I knew it. And I knew that God knew it. And I could not deny it. I was told in the vision to join that the gospel in its fullness was about to be restored. I'm grateful for your help, must know how I feel. There are no such things as these days. All of that ceased with the be any more of it. Don't speak of it further. It will only bring you grief. Hey, Joseph! You seen any visions lately? [LAUGHTER] Mind your own business, Smith. Worry about your brother. In September 1823, as he again Joseph was visited by a Joseph, I am your Moses truly-- He said his name was Moroni work for me to do. He told me of an ancient record plates, giving an account inhabitants of this continent. The writing on the gold plates I was told the plates contained gospel of Jesus Christ. Joseph was given knowledge of Christ himself made after the ancient America. During this visit, Jesus invited wound marks in his hands, He called twelve apostles and performed miracles. Joseph could describe this as life with them. I think that we presented the family that ever lived All of us giving the most 17 years of age, who had through in his life. In time, Joseph would be given record which had been Until then, he was instructed That preparation would include his trust in God. I'm sorry. I've done everything Our beloved oldest son and Joseph, if Alvin dies without see heaven. I wish I could say otherwise. Joseph, I'm sorry, You're the oldest now. Joseph. Do everything you can to Everything. God has given travail For dust we are, and unto Perhaps God is trying Alvin is lost, but there Forget these foolish notions. But it was Alvin's words have believe God would want to As Joseph grew to manhood, he had happened and to wonder about was yet to come. The same tomorrow, boys. It was during this time he woman named Emma Hale. As so often happened, rumors Father has heard some stories. Well, what if I told you He told her of all that She would have to decide If any of you lack wisdom, That's what I did. You win. There's something I I've thought a great deal And? I believe you. Although her parents did not married the following year. For four years, Joseph returned hiding place of the Each time, he received further was given permission to begin You married a dreamer, Emma. Translate. You normally read and write. Until he gives up these foolish welcome in this house. He'll change his mind after They named their first child older brother. He lived only a few hours. During their 17 years would see many sorrows. The Lord called Joseph in his for His work. The translation continued. Others joined Joseph in this All men must repent and be One such was Oliver Caldery. How are we to be baptized? I don't know. In May 1829, Joseph and Oliver A messenger from heaven He said he was John the Baptist, baptized Jesus Christ. He laid gave Joseph and Oliver the Later, Peter, James and John, apostles, restored the same anciently by Jesus Christ, so in all things for the salvation The work of translation the plates to the The ancient record was published Mormon, another witness I have been asked many times if The scriptures say, Read it and ask God. And when you shall receive these you that ye would ask God, the Christ, if these things And if ye shall ask with a intent, having faith in Christ, truth of it unto to you by the by the power of the Holy Ghost, all things. Is this book meant to Nothing can replace This is another witness of My husband was baptized by the day the Church of Jesus was organized. When he came up out of the &quot;Praise to my God that I have baptized into the Church of priesthood authority, the same established anciently was That we proceed and organize according to the commandments All those who are in favor, Oh, God, the eternal Are you still determined to The Lord has commanded church, it is His. It is the Church of I kept my promise, Alvin. Mr. Smith, forgive the intrusion you tell me more about Yes, yes I could. I do not believe in your thank you for your kindness. You might say that is I've never been thrown by now, brother Joseph. Sometimes the Lord brings he can lift us higher. Have you begun? [APPLAUSE] Brothers and sisters, be not we are in the service of our the service of our God. We do not ask people to give up only invite them to come And they did come. The word spread very fast. gather in Missouri and Ohio. These Mormons will soon be Can you imagine? Picking up and leaving of a so-called prophet. I hear they worship Well, there's one Joseph? Yes, Mother? My new friend here We only worship God the Father And all this talk That is how we learn His will. What makes you so certain, Mr. He does care and you but first you have The message was always Read for yourself and ask God. Many of our neighbors But there were others This time tomorrow, Joseph running like a scared rabbit. Perhaps fearful of a doctrine perhaps distrustful of There he is. Grab him! [SCREAMING AND YELLING] Come on, children! They're right here. Hold him! Don't do this. Put tar in his mouth. It is difficult to take the There will always How much do we have to endure? Perhaps I am meant to Better deep than shallow. Pray unto the Father, with all may be filled with this love. God has restored to the earth revelation. I am a witness that Jesus is the to repent and to He will bear our grief. He will carry our burdens. And if we are faithful, we may purified even as He is pure. The little town of Kirtland, houses could scarcely be Their family just arrived. Who have we here? That's Rachael, Susan, But she prefers Abby. Oh really. Mm-hmm. Abby. The Jacobsens are in I thought their home It is, except for hanging closing the back wall. [LAUGHS] So, what is all the The Lord has commanded us to What kind of a house? A house of holiness where the and power and authority. A temple, like the one where disciples in Jerusalem. And will we build this temple on the Jacobsen home? [LAUGHING] Soon church members were build a temple to their God. I know you've got a I certainly hope you've The first time I read this book, could have written it. Joseph really is a prophet. You're right. Parley. He's everything I expected, One of the hardest working among Brigham Young. Joseph opens up in cleanness understood before. Morning, Brigham. Joseph began to rely on and recognized his This should be our finest Nothing but the best We're not just building a building us. But how can He call someone You have been prepared, The Lord takes raw materials, The Lord has great things in Greater than you have Brigham Young, in the name of upon your head and ordain you to The Kirtland Temple became the earth that our people Not only a symbol of God's pathway for his word. What is it? Mother, tonight in the temple celestial kingdom of God. The voice of the Lord revealed &quot;All who die without knowledge received it will be heirs of the Alvin is not lost. Joseph's prophecy The Lord did come Behold, I have accepted Other heavenly messengers Old Testament prophets, Moses, --to the children and the The Lord built us in wonderful Joseph, line upon line, precept truth, every principle, every to life and salvation. God is the father Jesus Christ is His Son. Their work and their glory immortality and eternal It's time we got rid of these need to kill a few to do Some of the older settlers of our growing influence. Suspicion and fear took Heavy harassments turned into persistent slander and violence. Why are you doing this? Shut up! Why? Why? It is beyond me to answer How can we leave this I'm not the only one This has become too dangerous That is what we must consider. A temple we can rebuild, but Will things be better [MUSIC PLAYING] [BANG] [BANG] Lay down. [BANG] It seemed wherever our settle, conflict followed. Missouri proved to be Mama! Mama, please! [CRYING] This isn't just a mob. There are 2,500 Missouri with that order from &quot;Mormons must be treated as driven from the state for 18 of our brothers and sisters Is this is the public peace Fathers and mothers and children crime of building homes You should make this Accept the offer, I beg you. General Lucas. I was told you wanted Here are your prisoners, When we heard that Joseph and were filled with mourning, Gentlemen. Gentlemen, please! Tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock brigade will take these men to And he will shoot them! [CHEERING] In the midst of my grief, I was the Lord and received the Your sons shall not be harmed, time, Joseph will have power This is cold-blooded murder. These men are innocent. I will not obey your order. And if you execute them, I before an earthly tribunal, Though their lives were spared, themselves charged with treason Missouri, and treated Who's gonna save Prophesy, Smith. Give us one of your Tell us, Joe. Tell us more about Hey, you ever actually Two, maybe three. Course, the young'uns, they Yeah, but they're good [LAUGHTER] Oh, some of them Mormons ran 'em hid in their blacksmith's [LAUGHTER] We aimed right through them 'em just like fish in a barrel. [LAUGHTER] I found one 10-year-old and shot him dead. I couldn't get his father's [LAUGHTER] Those Mormon women-- oh hoh hoh, now they put I remember two or three of Silence, silence, Silence, ye In the name of Jesus Christ, command you to be still. I will not live another minute Cease such talk, or you The worth of every soul is Many of our fathers and Revolutionary War and struggled government of liberty and equal We violated no laws, yet people were driven from place their lives. Smith! Get yourself up here. Don't you try nothing. It's so good to see you. Mary? Hyrum. I brought someone to meet you. We have a fine new son. One at a time. As Joseph and Hyrum languished be tried for their lives, our Missouri, Iowa and Illinois. I have Mary and the children. And all this work is true. What a faithful heart Oh, God, where art thou? My son, peace be Thine adversity and thine small moment. And then if thou endure exalt thee on high. After six months in jail, and and Hyrum escaped We were reunited in Illinois, We hoped that our sufferings had we would now enjoy Don't lose heart, brethren. Nauvoo in Hebrew means What's the Hebrew During that first summer in with chills and fever. Here. Let me help you, sisters. Brother Joseph, my pride has Now the Lord can lift Am I indeed the mother The honored instrument in that my soul did magnify rejoiced in God, my Savior. Within five years, Nauvoo grew some 15,000. At the same time, Joseph was The truth of God will go forth, independent until it has sounded in every ear, and the accomplished. God desires to bless all of His truth and salvation. Brethren, a man filled with content in blessing He will be anxious to bless This is what the Lord In 1830, the first missionaries the Book of Mormon. In ancient days, God spoke to God's word with all those who Nonsense! God has again spoken to given us His word. The book of Amos teaches part of God's plan. 10 years later, Brigham Young sent to England. Great success there dispelled just an American religion. Good morning, brother. If he asks with a sincere heart, faith in Christ, he will you by the power of the Holy-- The missionaries sent out into the thousands to help build Boatloads came up the New Orleans. Ah, you play the pipes. Brother Joseph, please Still others came by any means We walked almost 900 God bless you, Jane Manning. Oh, He already has. He already has. Brother Joseph? Jesse! A word? Certainly. I was thinking-- Yes? People notice everything you your position should engage Well, if there are demeaning house, who better than the head Well, my wife does most such Maybe, maybe she could How long have you Three years next month. That long? May I offer you some advice. Aye. The Lord intends for marriage to in fact, forever. Now. If a man is not willing to here, why would she want Now you give that Therein lies happiness, Now there's a very wise man. They're beautiful. That's what made me It is the duty of a husband and nourish his wife. Start counting. One, two, three. Two, two, three. Do not count out loud. To honor her as himself, to tenderness. For she is his flesh and The Lord hath revealed the which bind families together eternity, only coupled We can one day dwell with Just a little weird, You've watched after us all That's what fathers do. Let us watch after you. Joseph, will I see Yes. You will see Alvin again You will always be his always be your son. The Lord has revealed that We can be together with the We will all see Alvin again. [MUSIC PLAYING] Heave, once more. Over, over easy, very good. It's as magnificent as The Lord has great blessings Why does the Lord want us It may seem to some a very bold binds on earth and in heaven. But God has restored that In the temple we can receive salvation, not only for have died without them. If we are faithful, all our Even as a new glorious temple fears returned. We would not be surprised to Smith by violent means. This isn't news. It's a threat. There's an easier way to get Old Joe Smith is still I say let them have him. Hold it right there, Smith. Don't move or you're Gonna shoot me? No. We're taking you back to The governor of Missouri to stand trial, again Sadly, the Illinois authorities honored the demand. Come on, boys! Our men found him just before Illinois-Missouri border. Well, gentlemen. Looks like I won't be going with But just to show there are no be my guests tonight? Gentlemen? I don't believe we've You might say we're the Oh. We rejoiced in the bold rescue, took it as an act of defiance. Joseph was given an ultimatum. Joseph, the governor insists The governor of Illinois fair treatment. History suggested otherwise. If Hyrum and I do not do what send the militia into Nauvoo, God does not want that, and Did you ever wonder if I do not let myself. Sometimes I do. I have longed with all my heart I shall never live to You will. Promise me, when the time people to the Rocky Mountains. Brethren, my mission is to know that He lives. [MUSIC PLAYING] I love you, brother. Joseph and Hyrum arrived in surrendered themselves Despite all the promises of fair came as no surprise. [BANG] Ooh. Joseph. [UNINTELLIGIBLE] Hyrum. No! [BANG] What do we hear in the gospel Truth out of the earth. Mercy from heaven. A voice of gladness for the [BANG] [BANG] Shall we not go on in The mobs are determined we shall we stay in Nauvoo. I do not know that I shall go will let Brother Brigham I am the first witness of the upon the earth. I leave the world at liberty I've spoken, esteemeth But this much I will say. All that I have told you is true