Mifune took a minute to lift his eyes from candlelight for only the Gods knew how many The task of calculating the taxes each settlement but that huge amount of work had begun to His mind raced back to the tumultuous years It was a dangerous time, yes, but only in Now, only tatami-made target dummies tasted While reminiscing about the past, an idea Why not just use last year's data, left Who cares if a bunch of peasants pay a koku So he thought and went to look for the old As the Sengoku Jidai, the age of civil war, that were shaping Japanese society and the would give rise to a new social order. Join us today as we take a look at Edo Japan's Did historic Japan have more to eat than just We invite you to find out the tasty way with Treat. SakuraCo is a monthly japanese artisan snack delicacies sourced from Japan's many different Authentic local snackmakers still provide predecessors, and with SakuraCo you can get door each months, along with a piece of unique This month the theme is A Night of Sakura, That means Sakura Cream Cookies, Sakura Castella, - you get the idea. Pair it with the Blueberry Hibiscus tea included, sakura glass. Prefer something more modern? There's also Tokyo Treat to try, another seasonal favourites. This month get the Sakura Matsuri snackfest sakura sweet tart, sakura waffle cookie, sakura Both boxes come with a detailed booklet to it's history, which makes it that much more comfort of your own home. You can get five percent off your first box gift, use our links in the description and The social pyramid society of the Edo period was not an entirely Social castes had existed as early as a millennia Kotoku in 645 brought about the ritsuryo system Through the long feudalization process, the philosophical movements like Neo-Confucianism, four-class order of the Edo era, the shi-no-ko-sho, and the merchants. However, this system did not include all of and Shinto priests existed outside of this Thus, before we talk about the four classes, belong in this social structure. The other classes society stands the Emperor and the Imperial Just below him are the other aristocratic traced to the early centuries of the Yamato These two groups, while being the most prestigious, with little to almost no political influence. True power belonged to the samurai class and This would not change until the last days to the Emperor. While the Imperial Court and the Shogun's third group existed far, far beneath it. These were the eta, the untouchables, the outside social hierarchy and were often regarded Their position, below even the bottom of the which by Buddhist standards were considered Eta dealt with the corpses of either animals Butchers, tanners, undertakers, prison guards who were forced to live outside the villages Eta could not participate in the governing beggars and sometimes even criminals. Despite their essential work, their lives They could not enter the homes of non-Etas sandals, among other restrictions. Most depressing is that criminal acts against did not view them as humans. Their status hardly improved when the Meiji system in 1871. The social stigma of centuries could not just treated them with hostility and contempt. Discrimination against them persisted well Peasants outside standard social hierarchy, let us with the peasants. What might surprise many of our viewers is classes due to the Confucian influences Japan According to Confucian doctrine, peasants the most valuable goods, such as food. This made them more valuable than merchants goods produced by others and were thus placed Peasants during the Edo period lived most Seldom did they travel outside, and when they even then, only when special permission was Peasant lived their lives and cultivated their For most farmers, it wasn't much, but it Of course, families with more plots of land over village politics, but they were still social system did not allow movement between If landed, the peasants were, of course, subject labour. Under the so-called murauke system, taxes as a village. Taxes were paid not in coin, but in rice, through annual land surveys that determined Later, this system was adjusted to a fixed If you think the peasants could circumnavigate system for lands where rice could not grow, by selling other crops. However, as land surveys became increasingly began finding ways to make profits not subject The person responsible for the collection who was elected among the peasants. Because the nengu was a collective tax, that burden of those less fortunate. Those who could not make ends meet solely jobs to compensate. It was not uncommon for peasants to undertake categories, such as smiths, sawyers, basket settlements like merchants. Craftsmen and Merchants not, of course, be classified as artisans, like the samurai, albeit in their respective Outcast districts and pleasure quarters tended the best land was reserved for the houses Thus, the merchants and artisans were the what they lacked in prestige and status, they Naturally, it's wrong to assume that every the bakufu had little interest in their activities, fortunes that rivalled even the wealthiest The only problem was that, strictly speaking, affluence. But exceptions did exist. The richest among the merchant class, and economic power that they were treated as samurai. Some of them were even allowed to wear the mark of the warrior class, or adopt a last Such was the success of the merchants that the bakufu's economic power declined, many to merchants and loan sharks, and measures Bushi the samurai were the privileged class of Feudal Unlike their Sengoku predecessors, the samurai with the peasants they were supposed to rule Much thanks to Toyotomi Hideyoshi's policies, the samurai were forced to relocate to the ancestral fiefs, though exceptions did exist. This migration, which aimed at better controlling society deeply. For one, the chasm between the samurai and Status differences existed in the past, of the two classes were bonded together. The samurai helped with the cultivation of the troubles and the joys of the village. Now, their position was completely separated In essence, the peasantry lost an ally that, lords. However, the relationship between the two So did the relationship between the samurai In the past, due to their economic independence samurai saw eye to eye with their masters, between them. However, the loss of land deprived the samurai now paid stipends by their lords. Therefore, they were completely dependent or, more likely, the loss of his status as state without even a home to return to. This constant sword of Damocles hanging over social order of the Edo era. The law that froze the classes in their place towards the end of the Azuchi-Momoyama period. He himself had risen from humble peasant footsoldier to prevent anyone from following him. But the same law that prohibited the rise in place, meaning a destitute samurai couldn't to get out of his debt. Granted, this fate was not predetermined, crafting, trading or farming activities while But it wasn't only the masterless samurai upside down. The Edo period was characteristically peaceful, up the pen more often than the sword. In lieu of having wars to fight, many samurai collectors and clerks, neglecting their training This system covered most of Japan at that the Tosa domain on the island of Shikoku or to the ancient Shimazu clan, who were given attempt from the Edo bakufu. In hindsight, that was probably a grave mistake and both clans would actually play a prominent in the mid-19th century. The Bakuhan system hegemony in 1602 that allowed Ieyasu to be His hold over the land would not solidify son and successor, Hideyori, was defeated Ieyasu, who had already passed the mantle following year. But during his reign as both Shogun and Ogosho, of a strong regime for his descendants to Ieyasu and his immediate successors, Hidetada that emphasized central control and stability. As we have seen, the samurai in their majority so were the daimyo of various provinces. Those who were lucky were moved to wealthier the bakufu in various ways, such as by making to produce an heir, were either reallocated title and status altogether. Such was the new world order after the unification The Shogun giveth and Shogun taketh away. Fundamental for the Shogunate to remain in and the tozama daimyo. Originally, the fudai, or "house" daimyo, with the Tokugawa clan before the battle of They were famous clans in their own right Ii, Sakai and the Sakakibara. On the other hand, the tozama, or outside neutral or had opposed the Tokugawa. In Ieyasu's time, there were only 13 fudai would change during each Shogun's reign Because they were more trustworthy, the fudai positions across the land to help maintain They were also given the highest-ranking positions In contrast the tozama daimyo were mostly of them also ruled over the largest and wealthiest province of Kanto and any important roads. They, too, came from great clans like the and their descendants were never fully trusted Besides these two categories of Daimyo, there of the Tokugawa that were related to the main Three of these lines were even allowed to a Shogun should the main line fail to produce But even those relatives that styled themselves power and were granted fertile fiefs. Of course, the lion's share of the land His direct holdings, mainly located in the of the farmable land. If we add to that the lands of his bannermen, Whether they were fudai or tozama, the bakufu We have already mentioned that marriages had of large power blocs. In addition, daimyo were restricted to one to acquire permission to repair or expand They were also limited as to the number of that was determined by the koku of the domain. However, the most effective way by which the any thought of revolt was the sankin-kotai, By law, the various daimyo were required to children and a number of retainers and servants The daimyo would spend one or, in some cases, province to take care of business there. While away, his wife and children remained With this practice, the Shogun was always this system of alternate attendance also had considerable amounts of the daimyo's treasury. Maintaining a second residence, which had belonged to a lord, was rather expensive. For those who lived far from Edo, there were Such were the expenditures the daimyo had caused many of them to fall deeply into debt. But while the Shogunate used various tools it also granted them several freedoms in how Outro of course, way deeper than the daimyo-Shogun highest levels of the Shogun's closest advisors that included magistrates, inspectors, pages And like every other complicated bureaucratic routine settled and officials performed their to its collapse. But this is a story for another time and another More videos on the administration and economic To ensure you don't miss that, make sure button. Please consider liking, subscribing, commenting, Recently we have started releasing weekly consider joining their ranks via the link to watch these weekly videos, learn about access our private discord, and much more. This is the Kings and Generals channel, and