Hey, Mr. Qin is here. Stand still. Stand still. Hey Mr. Qin Mr. Qin, didn't you say you wouldn't get married? Stop talking nonsense. I want you to find me a marriage partner. Coming Soon Small vest I came here to get married. If you are not here to rob, please leave. withdraw And you Did Aunt Wang agree? He is willing to give 80,000 yuan as a gift Ask for the certificate directly I'm waiting for you at the Civil Affairs Bureau now. You can just go there directly. Okay, I'll be there soon. Your grandma has been rescued temporarily. But surgery as soon as possible Otherwise your life will be in danger The surgery costs a conservative estimate of 80,000 yuan. Grandma, I will definitely save you. How long are you going to lie on me? I'm sorry Are you okay? How do you drive? Are you kidding me about human life? I'm sorry It's all my fault How much money do you want? I can compensate you He is the marriage partner that Xu Jie found for me How much money do you want? I'll pay you. No need to go in and get the certificate I see you're not hurt. Don't let me lose my whole life. I'm the one who asked you to get the certificate. It's you Okay, let's go in. nice Nice figure too Did you bring the money? Take 80,000 Wasn't 80,000 agreed to be 3 million? 3 million You're worth 3 million. 3 million is enough for me to marry 80 poor losers Waste my time There are 3 million in the card This is the reward I promised you. 3 million is not a good deal 8 million No, no I mean 10 million. I advise you not to be too greedy I have transferred the money to you. Save the number I will contact you in a year to get a divorce See you at the Civil Affairs Bureau then. Understand Hello, Doctor He Okay, okay, I'll be there soon. Hello who? Your husband will meet you at the Civil Affairs Bureau in half an hour. Divorce is okay, right? no problem Where is the marriage certificate? Forgot all Um Grandma grandma grandma grandma Have you seen my marriage certificate? You know I don't eat tomatoes. Oh, grandma. I mean the marriage certificate. Ouch What is Zhe Ergen? That's the marriage certificate. That little red notebook The marriage certificate of two people Oh, the marriage certificate. Right, right, where is it? Where is it? Hahaha What does he look like? Mr. Qin, you have a meeting to attend later. I have to meet my wife first. Go get ready Mr. Qin, are you going on a date with your wife? The president's gifts are ready. Do we need to prepare these for the woman when we divorce? Or do you want to give our Qin's employees Preparing for a group blind date? Isn't the first anniversary of a divorce? Are these gifts going to be removed? No need since you are ready Give them all to him. Hello Mr. Qin is not well. Dr. George just called. It is said that the old man interrupted his treatment and secretly returned to China What Why You stay here Handing the gift to the lady is Hello, Madam What about others? The president left first. This is his gift for you. this These are for me. Yes I'm cheap My husband is so generous. Hello Ms. Jiang Xiaoyu Hello, congratulations on passing the designer position review You are invited to come to Interview at Qin Group headquarters Do you have time? Oh yes yes yes OK, thanks etc. Hey Grandpa Thanks Elevator overload Please take another elevator Hey old man Go out consciously Hey Grandpa How can you be like this? How can I push the elderly? Besides, are you mistaken? The elevator was overloaded after you entered it You are the one who should go out What are you two? Dare to let me out Do you know who I am? Do you know the relationship between me and Mr. Qin? I don't care who you are. Apologize to grandpa immediately This woman is blind. Ma Lian Chen Jing Jie Du Gan Dui Looks like he's here for an interview. Gan De Zui Chen Jing Jie Ken Ding Guo Bu Liao I don't want to waste my breath on people like you. Hey, why are you so uneducated? grandfather Are you okay? I'm fine, thank you, little girl. I'm fine. Hey, what's your name? My name is Jiang Xiaoyu Jiang Xiaoyu, do you work at Qin's Group? No, I'm here for an interview. Hahahaha you will definitely pass I'm optimistic about you Lend me your good words Yeah Go Grandpa I don't know if I can meet Mr. Qin. How could Mr. Qin come for an interview? Our little characters It would be nice if I could join the secretarial department. Maybe I can get close to Mr. Qin. Jiang Xiaoyu is coming in for an interview Our people at the airport Didn't see grandpa Where is the old house? No grandfather Slow down. Slow down. Grandpa, you haven't recovered yet. How did you return home secretly? How dare you say that? It's been more than a year Why don't you bring your granddaughter-in-law to see me? You're not married at all? Didn't I show you the marriage certificate? Let me see the cover. I don't care. I want to see my granddaughter-in-law. Can't see anyone I won't live anymore Why Good grandpa, you just need to cure the disease I'll take you to see him. Okay, I'll give you another month. Oh, that's right. You have an interview today There is a little girl named Jiang Xiaoyu You have to take her down. My grandfather's company recruits people based on their ability. All attended the interview That strength is definitely there. This little girl Beautiful and kind I like her OK I recruited her in. Grandpa, please go back first. Good Xu Jie, send grandpa back Oh, no need I will go by myself Jiang Xiaoyu Hello, two interviewers. This is my resume It's you. What a coincidence. Well, it's over. You can go now You haven't read my resume yet. I don't need to see You are not worthy of working in the company. Take your Jane Calendar Oh my god, Mr. Qin is so handsome Is Jiang Xiaoyu here? You are because I just offended you So you deliberately make things difficult for me I'm just trying to make things difficult for you. What's wrong It's you who bullied the old man. It's your fault Even if I do it again I still do that. This company has a director like you I don't even want to die. Why does this person look so familiar? Jiang Xiaoyu Oh, I am Jiang Xiaoyu Design Major Is the design department still short of people? Mr. Qin Our design department is not short of people Over Worked as an intern assistant in the secretarial department Arrangement for employment is here. This bitch seduces me as soon as she comes Mr. Qin, please wait for me. You are the new beauty in the company. You smell so good. What are you doing You dare to hit me You're touching me I hit you lightly. As soon as you came here, you seduced Mr. Qin I hugged you. Why are you pretending to be a chaste woman? Mr. Qin Wait for me stop What's going on? She harassed me And he touched me Mr. Qin, don't listen to her nonsense. She wants to be the boss She seduced me A woman with an evil mind like her She should be fired immediately. You can go now I don't know which brainless person in the company is this? Recruited him in. I recruited him in. Sorry, I said the wrong thing. But you have to believe me This woman is all She seduced me You are talking nonsense Mr. Qin, I have been in the company for so many years. That has always been hard work. You must believe me You can go now Did you hear that? Why don't you get out of here? He was the one who harassed me Why do you want to fire me? I'm talking about him Idiot Oh Oh I'm not Mr. Qin Mr. Qin, I know I was wrong. I have old and young people here. This whole family depends on me for food. I'm going to lose my job. This whole family will starve to death. Mr. Qin, please give me another chance. 13 Thank you, Mr. Qin. Good job good Why does this person look so familiar? Xu Jie Mr. Jin What was the name of the marriage partner you found for me a year ago? My name is Xu Yanyan It seems I remembered it wrong. Wait a moment Did you keep my marriage certificate for me? It seems to be here Show it to me. Hey Secretary Xu Is there anything I can help you with? Wait a minute. What about these files? Take it and have a look Learn more Oh good ah I'm sorry Mr. Qin oh I'm sorry fine in blue sky Found no Haven't continued looking yet. Strange, I remember putting it here. Why can't I find it? Secretary Xu, what are you looking for? Marriage Certificate Marriage Certificate Do you need my help? Oh, no need Please help me get a clothing fabric list from the materials department Let Mr. Qin sign Oh ok Mr. Qin, I really know I was wrong. Please don't fire me I have a way to help you Chen Zong Jian Chen Zong Jian You must help me I don't want to be kicked out of Qin's I can help you But you have to help me do one thing. I want you to kick Jiang Xiaoyu out of Qin's Jiang Xiaoyu, this bitch If it weren't for her Will I be fired by Mr. Qin? Don't worry. I can definitely help you out. Go ahead Qin Muchuan I will drive away all the women who covet you. You can only be mine What are you doing Mr. Qin good Ah, Mr. Qin My earring fell off. Look. Mr. Qin I didn't tell you Don't come into my office casually? Mr. Qin, I know I was wrong. I'm going out now What are you doing here? Are you flirting in front of Mr. Qin again? I'm here to send Mr. Qin a product fabric list for me to see. ah What are you doing What do I do? You change the clothing material table Replaced type A fabric with type C fabric Did You Know Once put into production These clothes are poisonous clothes It will kill people. snort You want to do Qin family down I didn't. I didn't touch this. Still dare to quibble Follow me to the HR department Let me go I don't have What's going on? Qin Zongjiang Xiaoyu replaces clothing fabric table Affected the company's reputation I said I didn't lie to you How to explain I really don't Secretary Xu asked me to get this. I haven't opened it yet. How could I possibly do anything? Stop pretending to win Mr. Qin's sympathy. Enough Have you been anywhere along the way? Pantry I went to the pantry halfway Maybe it was switched there. We can check the surveillance there. Stop crying thief. Who doesn't know The surveillance in the tea room has been broken for a long time. The surveillance has been repaired How come he did it? Hasn't he been fired? Why are you still in the company? Go and bring Wang Qiang here. Let me go, why did you arrest me? You still want to quibble The evidence is all here. Why are you framing me? I You dare to lie in front of Mr. Qin? I advise you to think it over carefully before speaking. Mr. Qin, I just feel unwilling in my heart I want Jiang Xiaoyu to be expelled too. I...I never thought of harming the Qin family, Mr. Qin You leave this to the police. Take it away quickly Let's go, Mr. Qin. Qin Zong Jiang Xiaoyu You are not doing your job well You are fired Ah why Hasn't this been investigated? It's not me. Mr. Qin found it It's my fault. I lost your marriage certificate. I wonder if my wife's copy is still there. I checked You can get a divorce with just a marriage certificate I see Marriage certificate He is married You go out Mr. Qin, please leave quickly. Let me go Let me go oh no I'm sorry I have nothing to do with you Please don't recognize your husband randomly. No, no I'm going out Get out of here! Hello Sorry, I have something to do this morning. I'm leaving first you Are you crying? Nothing Are you looking for me to discuss divorce? yes Divorce matters I want to postpone it for a month I think you are my wife. Come home with me to see grandpa Oh, don't worry. I'll make up the difference for you this month. Need not The money you gave me Saved my only relative in the world You are my benefactor How can I ask for your money again? Don't worry I am good at making old people happy. good I will settle the divorce as soon as possible. One more thing I lost my marriage certificate. Is yours still there? You also lost your marriage certificate. You also lost your marriage certificate. I lost your marriage certificate. Secretary Xu just said that Mr. Qin's marriage certificate was lost. How could it be such a coincidence? Your marriage certificate is also lost. If that's the case That's troublesome. Not today A colleague of mine also lost his marriage certificate. What I'm Thinking About How could the mysterious husband be Mr. Qin? Are you having any difficulties? Yeah, you were crying. Even though we are in a fake marriage But a husband and wife for a day is a hundred days of grace If you have any trouble, tell me I will try my best to help you Mr. Zhao has arrived Get the contract When you called me just now I was fired by my boss. So I'm a little excited. But I'm fine now Go to work in your company Need not Don't worry I'm not that easily defeated. Get up from where you fell. Your boss fired you. That's because he's blind. He is indeed blind. You really can't say bad things about people behind their backs. Talk about Cao Cao I have something else to do I'm hanging up first Oh ok What are you doing? Jiang Xiaoyu You are Mr. Qin's assistant. That mysterious lady of Mr. Qin Do you know who it is? I thought Mr. Qin was a golden bachelor. I didn't expect she was already married. Heartbreak If Mr. Qin isn't married, it won't be your turn. I heard that Mr. Qin is planning to Is it true that the mysterious lady is getting divorced? It seems that's the case Then I still have a chance Are you all very idle? Jiang Xiaoyu Pack your things Leave the company immediately I don't know what's going on. Why I want to ask you something. Do you know Mr. Qin's schedule for today? Mr. Qin's schedule is kept confidential. Zhi You Chen Jing Jie He Xu Mi Shu Zhi Dao Do you know who Mr. Qin is negotiating with recently? It should be Mr. Zhao from Tianyu Group. Hey where are you going Blocking people Back Leave it to me How did you know I was here? Of course I guessed. I know you are discussing partnerships recently. It's Mr. Zhao from Tianyu Group. This is his favorite restaurant. If we talk about cooperation You'll probably be here That's a hangover cure. You might need this You approached me deliberately What is the purpose? I just want to tell you I can do a good job as an assistant And it was clearly Wang Qiang's fault Why did you fire me? I don't explain to idiots. Why Sorry, sorry. Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Qin. Jiang Xiaoyu Mr. Qin, I bought the hangover medicine you asked for. I didn't see anything Xu Jie, please come in. How long are you going to sit on my lap? I'm sorry Get out of the way I really want to know the reason OK, since you want to know Then I'll tell you You are an assistant You don't even know the file has been swapped It can be seen from this You are not careful And no sense of responsibility Mr. Qin Do you dare to make a bet with me? Give me a month I will definitely become the most satisfactory assistant If I did it You just let me stay I want to work as a designer in the product design department This is a hangover cure You might need this There is a little girl named Jiang Xiaoyu Little girl Beautiful and kind I like her Forget it, I'll give it to you for grandpa's sake. He has one chance. Give you a month If you don't do it well If you don't do it well How about I pay half a year's salary? Pay a deposit first Hmm, why does this card look so familiar? Forget it, it's just your money. I really can't see it One month Well done, stay If you can't do it well, get out So I can go to work tomorrow. Um The boss decided to keep me I managed to save my job. Thank you. Thank you. Jiang Xiaoyu Weren't you fired? Why is it still here? Mr. Qin has a keen eye for talent So I stayed How are you? Are you angry? Qin Muchuan made another exception for him The mysterious lady has not been found yet Another bitch Chen Jing Jie Wo Zhe You Zhi Gun Mr. Qin, your coffee No sugar, no milk, no ice, right? Leave it there Anything else? Won't you try it? go out Um not bad Jiang Xiaoyu Why are you here? What do you want to do? Jiang Xiaoyu You are not Mr. Qin's mysterious wife, are you? Are you kidding me? How could I be Mr. Qin's mysterious wife? You'd better Otherwise You are sick you Okay, I'll be there soon. I've reached you. Jiang Xiaoyu, you asked me to check I have found the money. I asked you to check Mrs. Qin. It's not this bitch who's going to check again Bitch You dare to play tricks on me? You said I could go back to the dormitory. Want to hit me Hit this It was Jiang Xiaoyu who caused you to leave Jiang Xiaoyu is our common enemy Jiang Xiaoyu There is Jiang Xiaoyu I can't let you return to Qin's So what are you going to do now? good Don't worry I will definitely beat him up today. President Qin and the mysterious lady are getting divorced What do you think? What does it have to do with me? Don't you like Mr. Qin? If you like Mr. Qin You just go after it Stop staring at me all day long. If you don't like Mr. Qin, Why do you pester him every day? Because I want to transfer to the design department Who told you not to let me join the design department? Besides, I'm already married. You are married When did it happen? It's all on my resume. You don't look good yourself Could you please stop targeting me? Xi Muchuan definitely doesn't like married women So it's important to find that mysterious lady first. Oh well That's right Please go to room 8388 of Hongcheng International to pick him up now. Mr. He Yes, Mr. He is an important customer of our company. You take good care of him Okay, I'll go now. People have already gone Are you ready? That is Jiang Xiaoyu Yes, absent from duty during work I want to see what he wants to do. Mr. He, are you awake? I was sent by Qin to pick you up. Mr. He Where are the people? Let me go Let go, help me, let go open Help! Let me go Jiang Xiaoyun open the door Help! Help! Help! Get the room card now Jiang Xiaoyu I know you're in there Open the door for me now Mr. Qin Mr. Qin Why are you here? Jiang Xiaoyu Mr. Qin How come you are here? Jiang Xiaoyu, look at what you look like now that Mr. Jin You smell so good. Jiang Xiaoyu you I am hot I want Hey what? Jiang Xiaoyu, calm down. I'm so hot Where's my remote? Um 16 degrees again Then this is Mr. Jin I found the room card. He's not in the right state I'll take him to the hospital first. Please help me find out who is in this house. good woke up Why am I in the hospital? I won't send you to the hospital. You might eat me Jiang Xiaoyu, you have quite a big contrast What ah What have I done? I kissed me Boss, you made a bet with me yesterday. In the blink of an eye, I went out to check into a room with someone else during work. I don't have any. I'm here to pick up a client from the company. Oops Mr. He Mr. He, why don't I know? The company has a partner named Mr. He You made it up pretty similar I didn't lie But why is there a pervert in the room? Did I go to the wrong room? Who asked you to pick up Mr. He? Calm down Xu Jie Rang Chen Jing Lai Yi Yuan Zhao Wo Chen Zong Wo Shi Zhen Mei Ban Fa Ya What you rubbish Chen Jing Qin Zong Rang Ni Qu Yi Yuan Jian Ta I'll come You are a patient, I feed you. Okay, thank you. You are the best dad in the world. Don't think that I will make you a regular employee just by praising me a few times Cheapskate Mr. Qin Mr. Qin, please look for me yes You asked Jiang Xiaoyu to go to Hon Teng International 8388 to pick up customers Uh, that seems to be the case. How come I don't know The company has a partner named Mr. He Mr. He Why do I remember it was Mr. He? I'm not going to be fired again, am I? Really? Why isn't Mr. He in the room? Instead, a pervert is waiting inside. Xu Jie What did I ask you to check? I asked the front desk. The room is registered with Wang Qiang's information Wang Qiang should be Mr. He. I'll call and ask Hey Mr. He What you've left President, I don't know Mr. He has left That's why Jiang Xiaoyu was asked to pick them up. It turned out to be that bastard Wang Qiang Okay, go back. Small fish Isn't this the person in Xiaoyu's notebook? Grandma, why are you here? Grandma, why are you in the hospital? Are you feeling unwell somewhere? It's ok, grandma has finished taking the medicine Come to the hospital to get some medicine Young man, you are Xiaoyu's husband. Jiang Xiaoyu, tell your family that I am your husband No No Grandma, you misunderstood. Misunderstand You don't say he is that book. no This is my boss. Not my husband boss Grandma made a mistake. Grandma is old I made a mistake. Grandma, go get the medicine. Oh, slow down, okay. Jiang Xiaoyu Hey boss I'll state first I don't like you I can't possibly Will like you There's no chance of an office romance. I don't care how you brag outside Explain everything to me as soon as possible. Otherwise the lie will be exposed You are the one who is ashamed Hey Are you sick? How could I possibly like you? It's far inferior to my mysterious husband. Hey grandma This dress is actually the same as the one the boss is wearing today Same clothes My mysterious husband looks more elegant in this outfit Hey, new here Did You Know Why did Mr. Qin send Wang Qiang to Rongcheng to meet with Mr. He? Wasn't Wang Qiang fired? Well, he was specially recruited to Rongcheng But He is no longer the glorious Manager Wang He will later I will meet Mr. He in Rongcheng. Mr. He He's a difficult person, isn't he? You just arrived, don't know Mr. He likes extreme sports In previous years, I would go to the secretarial department to select Bold docking Wang Qiang is a pervert I am usually the most timid. I'm afraid I'll be peeing my pants every day from now on. You deserve it Who made him always hit his female colleagues? move Mr. Qin Come Make a cup of coffee and come to my office Yes Enter Mr. Qin, your coffee Um oh Understand me so thoroughly He already likes me to this extent. Why Where's my notebook? Forget it, rewrite it Mr. Wang and Mr. Li like red wine I like cold dishes and spicy food I explained it very clearly to him yesterday Why doesn't he give up? How can I make a woman who likes me give up on me? She met a bad peach blossom Direct Rejection Say you have someone you like. I really can't say that I like men. Mr. Qin, you picked this up. Actually, I have someone I like. Mr. Qin read this book. They will definitely think I am dedicated. It seems useless to smile so brightly Could you tone it down a bit? Don't be so heartless. snort ah Why hasn't he left yet? What's wrong with me? Why is my heart beating so fast? Mr. Qin I like men. Why are you telling me this? Oh I see Could it be that I have become his confidant now? That's not right Doesn't Mr. Qin have a wife? This must be why he got divorced. Don't worry, Mr. Qin I will keep your secret till my death. Mr. Qin Mr. Qin Mr. Qin She obviously likes me Why should I hide? Two people come Come with me to Hengtong Group to have dinner with Mr. Zhou Chen Jie Yi Qi Qu Ba Jiang Xiaoyu You too. Hello Mr. Qin, your coffee How long has Jiang Xiaoyu been in the company? Then I can go and discuss things with Mr. Qin. Who knows how to seduce Mr. Qin? Doesn't Mr. Qin have a wife? He wants to be a mistress. Chen Jing Jing Huan Zai Ni Jiang Xiaoyu You wait for me Mr. Jin, long time no see. Mr. Zhou, please come. Hello, can you give me a menu? What did he just order? Let me take a look Replace this Longjing shrimp with braised Peanut Moutai replaced with beer Mr. Zhou is allergic to peanuts Jiang Xiaoyu, let me see how you end up Why did you order beer? I clearly ordered Moutai I'll take care of it. Mr. Qin, what do you mean? I know I'm allergic to peanuts. So many peanuts Jiang Xiaoyu, what did you order? You know that Mr. Zhou is allergic to peanuts It seems that you Qin's company is not very willing to cooperate This contract Don't sign it. Mr. Zhou She is new here The ignorant manager took the dishes away Excuse me Excuse me We served the wrong dish. It is our responsibility That's all for today. We'll talk about cooperation later. Hey wife Anniversary gift Okay, okay, I'll get back as soon as possible. Yeah Mr. Jin My wife's dress was prepared by you, right? She likes it very much Mr. Zhou, I know you and your wife have a good relationship. So deep? I took it upon myself to give her a dress Oh and this This is for you. Hope you like it too Since your company is so sincere Then I'd like to cooperate with you. As long as you and your wife like it Hey, I respect you Happy cooperation Happy cooperation See you next time. Calm down Why did you expose the company's shortcomings in front of Jay Chou? Mr. Qin, I am also anxious You don't have to say it. Go back and write a 1,000-word work report and give it to the senior When did you give Mrs. Zhou a gift? Come closer and I'll tell you I won't tell you hehehe Jia Xiaoyu, you're itching, right? If you transfer the money to me, I will tell you Then I won't listen. Oh, you are stupid There is a flash delivery idiot Jiang Xiaoyu Jiang Xiaoyu I can't drink much I also learned to drink so much alcohol Mr. Qin, shall we go back to the villa first? Send her home first Jiang Xiaoyu, wake up Where do you live? Where do you live? My home Mr. Qin Excuse me There is a wild cat Xiaoyu, why haven't you come back yet? Hello, old man. I'm the fish boss. Xiaoyu is drunk. Could you please send me your home address? What happened to Xiaoyu? Grandma, he's drunk. Please lead the way. Walk inside Marriage certificate Jiang Xiaoyu is married Young man Come and wipe it Thanks Thanks a lot Grandma Jiang Xiaoyu is married Hey little fish said She got married in a flash After getting married Her husband hasn't shown up this year. Look Just this guy I can't see the photo or the name clearly. I used it as a table leg. Hahaha ok I'm going back first You're already married, and you still say you love me? Good morning, Mr. Qin. What happened to him? You're just trying to please someone Some people I thought I was infinitely charming. It's so funny Jiang Xiaoyu, where is Mr. Qin? But married people As a human being, you still need to love yourself You all misunderstood me Nothing with Mr. Qin I think Mr. Qin has a special feeling towards you. I swear Mr. Qin and I are innocent. There can't be anything You are self-aware. Mr. Qin This is Mr. Wang's profile. The handover was completed in three days Complete this order and I'll make you a regular employee Guaranteed task completion What are you laughing at? You are already married Why are you still smiling at me? Is there any relation between the two? Of course it does matter. Okay, then I won't laugh anymore. I'll go wash it for you. No need. You are responsible for my coffee from now on. yes Mr. Qin, your coffee Mr. Qin Mr. Qin, here is a document that needs his signature. Mr. Qin drank too much Rest at the Champs Elysees Oh okay Jiang Xiaoyu has passed away I will take Mr. Qin's phone later. Send a message to Mrs. Qin Wait till he arrives You immediately go catch him cheating remember It must be done before Mr. Qin's medicine takes effect. Let Jiang Xiaoyu and his wife meet Got it? Jiang Xiaoyu, ah Jiang Xiaoyu Just wait for your ex-wife to catch you cheating. Why is it so hot? Jiang's special assistant, Mr. Qin, is inside 8388 Why Why Why Jiang Xiaoyu Mr. Qin Mr. Qin Jiang Xiaoyu Mr. Qin, what's wrong with you? What's wrong with you Hot You seem to have a fever Come on, I'll take you to the hospital. Let me go, Mr. Qin What? Mrs. Qin didn't go? Then isn't Mr. Qin and Jiang Xiaoyuanyuan? I slept with Mr. Qin last night So is this considered cheating? Mr. Qin looked like he was drugged yesterday. Someone sent me a message yesterday saying that the mysterious husband is at 8388 To Qianxi But the one at 8388 is Mr. Qin. Could it be that my mysterious husband is Mr. Qin? I'll find out after I make a phone call. Hello woman's voice This is my husband's phone. How come it's in your hands? Because your husband is in my bed. Why Mrs. Qin is sure Can't stand it It will definitely speed up the divorce process with President Qin. Ouch, I'm scared to death Ouch Fortunately, the mysterious husband and Mr. Qin are not the same person I told my mysterious husband so many bad things about Mr. Qin If it's the same person I'll just die then. Sleep, sleep, sleep Just know how to sleep Is Jiang Xiaoyu dissatisfied? No, I don't mean that. Mr. Qin is interrupting Why is my phone here? Mr. Qin, where did you go yesterday? The phone call is not working. I was drugged. Go check who did what. I'll go right away Wait a minute, where is Jiang Xiaoyu? Why can't I see you today? She is not feeling well I've asked for leave. I'm not feeling well. Hey Mr. Jin Where are you going? Hello I thought about it I still need to tell you Yesterday a woman sent me a message saying you cheated on me I won't tell you yet. Someone's coming to my house grandmother Who are you The boss who sent Xiaoyu back that day It's me. I heard he hasn't been feeling well lately. I'll come over to see him. Ah who is it? Why did the big boss come to my house? Hey, this kid Come on, come in, come in Hahaha, come and eat some fruit. Thank you grandma Just leave it like this, hahahaha Hahahaha, how old are you this year? Are you married? I am 26 years old Already married You were married? Oh, look at you A talented person It matches our little fish so well. ah Oh, what a pity. You are married, hahahaha grandmother To be honest I'm getting a divorce ah Divorce is good. Ouch hahaha Our little fish Her husband hasn't shown up in a year of marriage. Not a good thing Me Sooner or later I will divorce him. Hey, how nice it is for you to be with our little fish Right? Hahaha It turns out that Jiang Xiaoyu's husband treats her badly. I should be more responsible for her. grandmother No more talking. No more talking. You guys chat Hahaha Ha ha ha How come you are here? I heard you weren't feeling well. Did you stop yesterday? It was just an accident I know you were drugged. Can you We'll just pretend nothing happened. I will be responsible for you How to be responsible for cheating? I will divorce No, I'm fine. You should leave now. You're not feeling well I want to stay and take care of you that I'm going to call my husband later. You are really inconvenient OK I haven't met your husband anyway. Go ahead and hit me. I promise I won't make any noise. Why I said you are this person Do you have any special hobbies? Besides, I just called him. It's not a video. You can't see anyone I can listen to the sound. The two of us have something very intimate to say Are you sure you want to listen Isn't her husband treating her badly? Could it be that they are actually very affectionate? OK Then you have to listen I'll call now No Have a good rest Why is he so concerned about my private life? Maybe he likes me You said someone took my phone Send you my cheating information But I didn't see it It should have been deleted. I called later It was a woman who answered She said you were in her bed She's quite arrogant in bed Go and claim sovereignty with my first wife Do you mind if I'm with someone else? Of course I don't mind. Our marriage is fake. Then of course you should have your own life and love I'm telling you something too. I had sex with someone yesterday. Just like you said We are in a fake marriage I won't interfere with your life. I don't care who you're with. That's good. I'm gossiping. Is that girl the one you like? I'm not sure But he likes me very much So we divorced as soon as possible. Okay, then you set a time. Grandpa will return home in 7 days That's it. We met and got divorced after 7 days. OK Ah, I will be single in seven days. So, if you say that The woman who called me that day It is to assert sovereignty I just sent the wrong room number. I bumped into Mr. Qin. Neuropathy Jiang Xiaoyu When are you going to connect with Mr. Wang's project? If you don't want to do this, get out of here. I'll go to connect tomorrow morning This is Mr. Qin's order. You said you know who the mistress who cheated with my husband is I also know that they are going to have a private meeting tomorrow. I'll send you the address tomorrow. You'll know if you go and see it. Dare to seduce my husband I'm gonna tear his mouth apart Skinned him What about others? Didn't you ask him to contact Mr. Wang? I didn't let him go today. Is he hiding from me? Give me the address Mr. Wang, I heard that you are very knowledgeable about coffee. This shop has good coffee I don't know what you think Well, not bad, I tried my best. I understand the project almost Or let's sign the contract. Oh good Come Let's take a look. You little bitch, how dare you hit my husband? You misunderstood We're talking about work. Shut up. Don't think I don't know what you're thinking. I just saw it all Mrs. Wang, you misunderstood. I am an employee of Qin's Mr. Wang and I are innocent. Still dare to quibble Look how I teach you today. Come and see, everyone. This vixen is shameless Seducing Husband Being a mistress Don't I like to seduce people? Come on Let me show you one. Don't pull me stop Who are you? Why are you meddling in other people's business? Why can't I be a hero and save the beauty? Shut up Mr. Qin How come you are here I won't bother you with my little business. What the hell is Mr. Qin? I warn you Don't stop me from beating up the mistress I'm not a mistress You're outspoken You want to kill me Mr. Qin, let's sign the contract right now Sign immediately Ahhh You let this bitch bully my Qin's employees. You are not worthy of cooperating with my Qin Group. From today Qin imposes commercial blockade on Wang family Mr. Qin, that's not the case. He is an employee Because of him, the harmony between our two families was damaged. At worst I can just compensate him. The Wang family is waiting for bankruptcy. Laugh at my Wang family's wealth and success You say bankruptcy, then bankruptcy Daydreaming hum Mr. Qin, cooperation is important, don't Because you are more important than cooperation Jiang Xiaoyu You are my employee, Qin Muchuan No need to compromise I'll support you. Hello What funding chain is broken? this Mr. Qin, right? I was blind just now. Please forgive me. Mr. Qin Let's go Mr. Qin Mr. Qin Mr. Qin Good What are you crazy about? Who told you to eat outside? I screwed up the project. Can't turn right? Who said that? You passed Then you agree to my change of job Is it because you want to be responsible for me? Oh what are you doing You're overthinking You passed my test It doesn't mean you can be transferred to the design department. You want to go to the design department? You have to pass the test of the design department Ke Shi Chen Jing Ta Bu Xi Huan Wo Can I pass? I will set a test tomorrow If you pass I promise you Let you transfer to the design department Jiang Xiaoyu, do you dare to accept the challenge? good Come on, come on, make an announcement. International film queen Ashley has reached cooperation with our company We need to design a dress for her Water-themed The company decided after consultation. Hold a design competition within the company Are only people from the design department involved? This fashion creative design competition is not limited to any department. Time limit 3 days If I win, I can grant him a request. If I win Can I transfer to the design department? certainly The premise is that you can win Jiang Xiaoyu Do you understand design? I dare to speak so brazenly here. You're also kind enough to say it out loud Don't even look at your own weight You don't need to worry about this. We will know the result in three days. Chen Jing Jie A I have inquired about it. This little fish He won many design competitions while in school. If he really won Where can our design department put its face? Don't worry I have my own way Finally finished I will optimize it tomorrow and call it a day. Jiang Xiaoyu waited for me to win the game I'll make you get out of the dormitory. Let's go, I'll take you home Thank you Mr. Qin Water ripples came to my mind Mr. Qin, please go back first. I'll redesign my design. Come back to me It's so late go home This is me for the international film queen Ashley's dress Pure white fishtail skirt Like a Duck in Water The fabric is flowing satin with elegant lace Front and back V-shaped cut Translucent lace added on both sides of the waist More charming and sexy Isn't this my first design? Wow, what else can compare to this? Zhi Jie Xuan Bu Chen Jing Jie Huo Sheng Ba Dui Ya This is my design Jiang Xiaoyu, please have some shame This is me working hard for 3 days and nights Designed drawings You rely on yourself as the president's assistant Can you take away the fruits of my labor? Jiang Xiaoyu People like you who steal other people's designs are a cancer in the industry. should be kicked out of Qin's I agree to expel Jiang Xiaoyu from Qin's Shut your mouth. Jiang Xiaoyu You said you designed this picture Do you have any evidence? certainly This is my first design. Pure white fishtail skirt Like water Pure and clean Parrots imitate what you say. This design is yours. The theme of this time is water Fish and water But I think this is far from enough So I designed the The second version adds raindrops and water ripples. Fabric Translucent tulle and organza Sequined skirt The colors are mainly smoke gray and silver As you move, the light will be refracted differently. Sparkling like the surface of the water This is indeed a better design by Jiang Xiaoyu The fart was clearly designed by Sister Shen Xin better The bitch actually designed the second version behind my back Who wins and who loses in everyone's mind? I believe there is a conclusion. Jiang Xiaoyu, you are a regular employee Start Today You are the designer in the design department. Thank you Mr. Qin Adjournment What's next, everyone? I announce an appointment According to the performance of Jiang Xiaoyu and Shen Jing Company research decision Jiang Xiaoyu is appointed as the leader of the second group of the design department Responsible for the follow-up of Ashley's fashion Director of Design Chen Jing Jiang Ji Wei She Ji Bu San Zu Zu Chang Let's give some applause to encourage Jiang Xiaoyu really let you win What's there to be proud of? Isn't it just seduction that gets you to the top? I used to fool around with Mr. Wang Later, he was discovered by Mr. Wang's wife and was beaten up. Jiang Xiaoyu, you are flirting by climbing on the bed Be on an equal footing with me What's there to be wronged about? What you said I recorded everything. Mr. Qin I hate employees who gossip behind others' backs. If he heard All have to resign. Apologize immediately Now Sister Shen Jing Look, he's sorry. And I'm sorry I didn't hear Sorry, that's almost it. I'm going to Licheng on a business trip tomorrow Jiang Xiaoyu, please get ready. Come with me tomorrow. Qin Zong Zhi Qian Chu Chai Bu Du Dai Chen Jing Jie Ma Why did you bring Jiang Xiaoyu this time? Jiang Xiaoyu What did you do? Why choose you and not me? Because I'm better than you You farted, it's obvious that you slept with Mr. Qi How do you know? How did you know it was you that day? Tell me Mr. Qin's location It was you who gave President Qin the medicine. Stop talking nonsense. I have an acquaintance working there. What he saw What acquaintance? It was the waiter who locked me in the room that day. What waiter? I don't know what you're talking about Stop slandering me This is to Licheng. The information is here. Um Have you found the person who drugged you that day? Found one But I believe there is someone behind him. Zhe Ge Ren You Mei You Ke Neng Shi Chen Jing A He seems to know what happened between us. And he also gave me the address that day. I'll check this myself. You should go back and pack your things first, okay? ah Little Beauty I'll show you a baby. Damn pervert hahaha If you don't watch it, you are not giving my brother face. Where are you running to? Catch him! Help me, do you like it? Oh like Ha ha ha ha If you like me, I'll give you a wife, okay? Good help Play it how you want take away Help, let him go. Qin Mengchuan Let her go. Go fast Walk Sister Jing just let them go. My brothers want to make a fortune with you. I've said Don't touch Ji Muchuan If you dare to touch him again, I will destroy you Does it hurt? I'll help you blow I'm fine Yesterday's events Thank you You are my employee I should protect you. Just employees? Mr. Qin, I heard from Jiang Xiaoyu that you were attacked. Is everyone okay? If I have something to do, can I be in front of you? I told you I'd give you a bodyguard. You don't want I just want to spend time alone with Jiang Xiaoyu. A world for two What are you talking about? You obviously like Jiang Xiaoyu You like me What do I like you? You obviously liked me first When did I like you you Tell your grandma that I'm your husband What little notebook are you writing in? My preference is this Don't like me what? My grandma got the wrong person. And that little notebook is my work schedule. I not only remember you I also remember Mr. Zhang, Mr. Huang, and Mr. Li Besides, don't you like men? ah I'm rejecting you. My thoughts You need to reject me You dare to say you don't like me You can think whatever you want. Um You clearly like me but you won't admit it Mr. Qin, do you like Jiang Xiaoyu? How could I possibly like him? I like gentle and considerate Look at him chirping all day long. Mr. Qin, I think if you want the other person to like you That's only if you have a crush on someone first. So it's obviously you who likes Jiang Xiaoyu You said I have a one-sided love for Jiang Xiaoyu Well, if you dare to go out, you're dead. Well, I just brought some food with me, so let's eat it. This is not that day Is this one of the gifts that Mr. Qin asked me to prepare for my wife? Jiang Xiaoyu, your bracelet This bracelet was given to me by my husband. What's wrong? Your husband is not that good. This broken bracelet looks very cheap Mr. Qin, this is very expensive. When you asked me to choose a gift for my wife This is the necklace. Oh, I didn't expect that. Mr. Qin even forgot what gift to give to his wife Men are really big pigs. Why What's wrong, Mr. Qin? What's wrong? You know I like Jiang Xiaoyu Why are you still mentioning wife or gift in front of him? You are more trouble than success Then you obviously had a fake marriage with your wife. And they're getting divorced soon. But he doesn't know Then I'll explain it to him. Oh, no need I'll explain it to him sometime. That's right It's her birthday the day after tomorrow Prepare a big gift for her It has to be better than the crappy bracelet my crappy husband gave me. Okay I can't see your eyesight. I'll pick it myself What's going on? What's going on? What are you pretending to be? You won't know This is the birthday gift from Mr. Qin to you. Qin Muchuan deliberately hurt me, right? You guys are so good at gossiping. Why don't you go to Mr. Qin's office? I'll state it in advance. These gifts have nothing to do with me. It was given to his wife by President Qin. President Qin is preparing to divorce his wife How could I give my wife so many gifts? He is just looking for excuses out of guilt. Mr. Qin divorced his wife for her. Then she will become the future boss lady of Qin's Hey, I have a bold guess. you say Could this Jiang Xiaoyu be Mr. Qin's mysterious wife? ah It's impossible to think so. He Jiang Xiaoyu is also worthy of Have you finished the work at hand? sorry Hello, this is my husband's phone. How come it's at your place? The voice on the other end of the phone It really sounds like Jiang Xiaoyu's voice. I arranged for Mrs. Qin to catch Jiang Xiaoyu cheating Mrs. Qin did not show up If Jiang Xiaoyu is Mrs. Qin Then it all makes sense. Then I'll try again Let me see if it's Mrs. Qin Mr. Qin, the gift on my desk is from you. How is it? It's much better than the crappy necklace your crappy husband gave you. This is what I carefully selected I don't want you to take it back. Why don't you Is it that you don't like it? If you don't like I can buy it for you again. What do you want to do? Didn't I tell you I like you? Don't you like me at all? Mr. Jin What's wrong with you Do you like it? Maybe But I can't be a mistress who destroys someone's family. Mr. Qin, you have a wife. I also have a husband It's not that men are unmarried and women are unmarried. We'd better keep some distance. As for the gifts Give it to your wife. Hello The gift you gave to someone you like was rejected. He asked me to give you all the gifts. He's obviously jealous. Did you tell him that your marriage to me was fake? I've already told him Oh, that's right. If you want these gifts Come to the bedroom. I'll give it all to you No, no, no You gave me so many things last time. And is this also what you feel for him? Wait for the bedroom How could it be such a coincidence? What are you doing? I got nervous and hung up the phone. What are you doing? As you wish I'm asking my wife about her well-being. He always just leaves his phone number. What happened? Why did you hang up the phone suddenly? Hey, my stingy boss just told me It seems like every time I talk to you you mention him If you really hate him Then come to work in my company. Actually, I don't hate him. So you like him Yeah, maybe a little. It seems that we also like people we shouldn't like. Mr. Qin Money Tree I have something to do, so I'll leave first. The money tree you bought at a high price I'm almost bald because of Jiang Xiaoyu Looking forward to meeting you, Mrs. Qin One more moment I will know Is Mr. Qin's mysterious wife you? Jiang Xiaoyu agreed to divorce in 7 days There are only two days left and you are so anxious! Hello You asked me to meet you at a cafe. Let's talk about the divorce face to face. What? You didn't date me? Who sent me the message? Oh, that little lover last time Two days later we met at No. 6 Qingyang Road You go with me to see grandpa first. After explaining the situation to my grandfather We will go to the Civil Affairs Bureau to get a divorce. See you in two days. Um I'm curious about what that little lover looks like. Why not go and have a look Hello Was there anyone at the door just now? Oh, there's a lady on the phone. Let's just forget it. Last time, I was beaten as a mistress. Enough of the lesson. I won't join in the fun. Over Or let him run away Well, in two days I will be single again What's wrong, grandma? The boss who gave you a ride last time seems to be downstairs Does he have something to do with you? Mr. Qin is downstairs Yeah grandma I'll go down first. Hahaha oops How should I tell him? What if he doesn't like me? you What are you doing here? Why are you here? Nonsense, my grandma saw you upstairs Why are you looking for me? Jiang Xiaoyu I like you I know you have feelings for me So why can't we be together? Because we are both married. I don't want to be the kind of mistress who destroys other people's families You didn't destroy the family. I'm in a fake marriage I am here to deal with my grandfather's inheritance I just found someone I only met him once. I don't even remember what he looks like. How come fake marriage is so similar to my experience? Give me two days I will definitely divorce him. no How could this be such a coincidence? I'm also in a fake marriage you You're my husband, aren't you? Were you called Xu Yanyan before? You haven't changed your name before. No, I've always been called Jiang Xiaoyu It doesn't matter At least now I know that our marriage was fake. When we are single again Would you like to be with me? good The sun rises in the west What's up Director Xia has checked De Que Shi Chen Jing Li Please ask him to come to my office immediately. Mr. Qin, please look for me Are you the one who drugged me? Not me I don't Is Jiang Xiaoyu gossiping in front of you? I'll find you here I'm not listening to your excuses. You were fired Now pack your things and leave immediately Mr. Qin I've been with you for so many years Even if there is no credit, there is still hard work. You want to drive me away now for Jiang Xiaoyu I won't hold you responsible The responsibility is enough to give you face. Or do you want to hold me responsible? Let the lawyer draw up a divorce agreement tomorrow. Are you planning to get together with Jiang Xiaoyu after the divorce? yes He is like me It's all fake marriage We will officially be together after we divorce each other good Mr. Qin and his wife had a fake marriage No wonder Mr. Qin doesn't care no We must stop President Qin and Jiang Xiaoyu from being together What are you doing here? Secretary Xu, can you please ask Mr. Qin for mercy on my behalf? I really know I'm wrong I can't help you You'd better pack up and leave the company. Why What are you proud of? Wait until I'm with Mr. Qin The first one fired you. What are you doing here? I picked up a pen. no Marriage certificate Is this Mr. Qin's marriage certificate? It's not my stuff. I don't believe it unless you show me This is my stuff Why should I show you? It seems that Mr. Qin and Jiang Xiaoyu I don't know who I'm getting married to. If Mr. Qin knew that Jiang Xiaoyu was his wife No, we must not let them know. What are you doing You scared me Zhe Shi Chen Jing Gang Gang Jian Dao De Jie Hun Zheng She said it was hers But I think this should be yours. Just take a look and you will know Jiang Xiaoyu, what are you doing? What are you doing How come this is empty? Jiang Xiaoyu, you touch my things so casually That's too disrespectful. Feel sorry Let's go Hey, fight with me You're still a little tender. Jiang Xiaoyu and Qi Muchuan can only be mine I will never let you two be together They will divorce the day after tomorrow Wouldn't they see each other? You will know the truth then. Chen Xiao Jie Cha Dao Liao Mr. Qin paid someone to fake a marriage. My name is Xu Yanyan This is Xu Yanyan's photo Look This information Are you still satisfied? Very satisfied Xie Xie Chen Xiao Jie Come find me next time you have work. Xu Yanyan You're looking for me I declare in advance I won't take jobs that cost less than 100,000 yuan. There is 1 million in this card Do me a favor Oh, Xiaoyu is dressed so beautifully Ready to go on a date? Not a date It's a divorce. It's better to get divorced Just left Bring your company's boss to our house. Oh, grandma. I like him very much Good grandma, I'll try my best Don't wait for me to eat tonight. Good, good, hi Be careful on the road Okay hahaha Already set out Still half an hour to arrive good Leave your phone number Jiang Xiaoyu Why is Jiang Xiaoyu here? Is it my husband? Who are you? I am your wife Xu Yan Didn't you ask me to meet here? She is Mr. Qin's wife Why do you look different from what I imagined? I did some cosmetic surgery. So you are the mistress. how Wait until I divorce my husband and take over immediately Xu Yanyan, my marriage to you is fake Today is our second meeting I don't have any feelings for you You misunderstood Mr. Qin and I are just a boss and an employee. I happened to meet here today Then please move away. I look at the eyesore You guys talk first No fish allowed His words and deeds How come it's completely different from what we talk about on the phone? Who are you? It's not Xu Mingyuan at all Look carefully, this is my ID card I am Xu Yanyan People are always fickle. Especially since she's a woman. Hurry up and make a quick decision Why Why is it hanging? Didn't we agree to meet at 10 o'clock? Nothing will happen, right? Sorry, the user you dialed is powered off. Please call again later What is the situation What's wrong My phone is broken If your phone is not broken, how could you recognize the wrong person? Just a mobile phone You can't afford it. Let's go eat I'm going to fix my phone. How long will it take to repair? One hour, I I'll fix it and bring it to you. I'm in the innermost bunk room Um I said I don't want this phone to be fixed You know what I mean? Are you crazy? Sorry, the user you dialed is powered off. Please call again later Never mind. This is from my lawyer. Divorce agreement signed? Our one-year fake marriage is officially over. Xu Yinyin, what do you want to do? I don't want a divorce Didn't we agree on this? How can you regret it? Didn't you say you have someone you like? I'm lying to you, I only like money You divorce me Isn't it just to be with Jiang Xiaoyu? I won't let you Besides I won't get any benefit from divorce. I'll give you another 10 million as compensation, okay? not enough I want 100 million impossible How is it impossible? Your Qin family is very wealthy. What's wrong with giving me 100 million? Before we met I thought you were a kind and intelligent woman. I didn't expect you to have such a face. I warn you This marriage is inseparable If you dare to entangle again Don't even think about getting a penny of compensation. Grandpa Grandpa Why did you quarrel? Didn't come to sit Grandpa, I finally see you. I am your granddaughter-in-law My name is Xu Yanyan oh Good good good Beautiful and generous Hum, this is the stinky boy You never let me see you. Grandpa, I see you for the first time today. I think you have extraordinary temperament Spirited No wonder I was wondering before. I wonder who Mu Chuan resembles in this temperament? See you today It looks like you, grandpa. This kid I brought him up since he was a kid. Hahaha ah What about the 3 million? Just as a greeting red envelope from grandpa Thank you What are you doing, you little bastard? I'm giving this to your wife. Grandpa, he is not I will divorce him after today. Why This divorce No, I don't agree. Why divorce when things are going well? Such a good granddaughter-in-law Grandpa, I have no emotional foundation with her. I only had a fake marriage to deal with you. Grandpa, I don't want a divorce. Can this kind of relationship be cultivated slowly? Don't worry I don't agree to divorce you. I'm in charge Grandpa, she is a woman who is greedy for money Did You Know How much money did she want from me as a divorce settlement? How many One hundred million No, Grandpa I'm kidding. The main purpose is to prevent Mu Chuan from divorcing me You lie Stop arguing. I'm in charge. I don't agree to divorce you. Grandpa is ready to eat Grandpa sitting grandfather You try this good You also eat Um Grandpa, I want to work at Qin Group First of all, I can develop feelings with Mu Chuan. Secondly, you can get familiar with Qin's business in advance I will be able to help Muchuan in the future. good I do not agree What do you disagree with, little brat? Yanyan will go to work at Qin's tomorrow Thanks grandfather Enter Your phone is fixed Damn, how could I have forgotten this? What happened to your phone? I accidentally broke it. Since you have something to do Then we'll meet again some other time. Isn't he here? Is he a fake? Goodbye Grandpa You are not my wife Tell me, who are you? I am your wife. Didn't I show you my ID card? Yeah Then you are my wife Who sent me this message? Ah, my phone was stolen on the way here today. This is fraudulent information Really? If you don't believe it, you can try it. You have money anyway. No fear of being blackmailed ah This is my new number. You save it No need Apart from divorce I don't want to have anything to do with you. It's done. He now completely believes that I am his wife And blocked Jiang Xiaoyu's private number but Jiang Xiaoyu still has his number. Leave this to me I will get rid of his phone. That's good. You want people, I want money. Happy cooperation Have you heard? Mrs. Qin is coming to work at the company Is this true or false? Isn't President Qin going to get a divorce? It seems the information is wrong. Mr. Qin and his wife have a good relationship. It seems that some scheming women are spreading rumors It's interesting to see the original wife and mistress gather together Some people Just waiting to be slapped in the face by the original wife Didn't he say he wanted a divorce? Are you just lying to me? The lady is here As expected, Madam She is so beautiful Good skin too Good temperament It's different from us ordinary people. Oh, okay, okay. Stop bragging, everyone. I feel embarrassed to praise you again Jiang Xiaoyu Thank you for helping me take care of my husband. But I won't bother you anymore when I come. Well said, some people No one wants me wearing human skin Run away and become a mistress It's a disgrace to us women. Madam is so beautiful How could Mr. Qin be attracted to a guy like him? He must be kept like a dog. Come when you call, go when you wave Enough said? Oh well. Everyone, please keep your voice down. The fish got angry. If she becomes Mrs. Qin in the future We all have no good results. He can't What if he becomes Mrs. Qin? I kneeled down and called him grandma It seems that you are not very popular. I just can't tolerate any sand in my eyes. Start Today Just go to the marketing department and do field work for me. Let me go up You are not allowed to leave work until you finish the work. Walk Jiang Xiaoyu Jiang Xiaoyu Drive to get there fast Put me down No, I'll take her to the hospital. I told you to put me down What's wrong with me I asked you, are you divorced? A problem occurred during the journey Please give me some more time Are you kidding me? Now everyone in the company is saying that I am a mistress I'm destroying your family. Who said you you tell me I let them know the consequences of spreading rumors It doesn't matter It just so happens that we are not divorced yet. Keep your distance from me. You haven't divorced. Why Is it him who doesn't want to or you who don't want to What does it have to do with you? Where to go I am currently an employee of the marketing department I'm going to work Who asked you to go to the marketing department? It's ok, I'll go by myself If it's alright, I'll leave first. I'll take you to the hospital for a checkup. I'll go by myself Don't follow me Ah, Mr. Qin Please help me find out who Jiang Xiaoyu's husband is. Warn him by the way Tell him to stop bothering Jiang Xiaoyu Mr. Qin, this is not good. I'll let you go. Okay, that's right. Please help me find out who is looking for me in the company Give me Kai OK Didn't you say you would help me teach him a lesson? How come he's fine now? I taught him a lesson for you. But he couldn't stand Qin Muchuan's desperate protection of him. Those employees who insulted Jiang Xiaoyu All have been fired If it weren't for that old man protecting me I was kicked out long ago What's so good about this Jiang Xiaoyu? Men are like clothes As long as you have money What kind of man can't find Why are you so upset? Why do you have to hang yourself on a tree? What do you know? He is different from other men. I have arranged the staff This time, I must make him better. look Could you please stop following me? I will go to the hospital by myself later Hey little beauty What's wrong? Let's have a look. I have money I can give you money. Let me go Who told you that you can leave after paying the money? This little money is not enough for us to fill our teeth. I can go back and get the money for you. Can you please let me go? Not that troublesome. As long as you make us happy We are happy Nature will let you go Open it Stinky bitches Don't eat toasts Drink a penalty drink Fuck it Ah let me go ah let me go What to do Let her go Are you okay? Why did you come just now? I was scared to death It's all my fault. I'm late I promise you I'll pick you up every day when you go to work, okay? Um How come you come here? You almost fainted during the day. I'm worried about you I'm sorry During the day, my attitude is bad. I apologize to you It doesn't matter I know you are angry with me because of Xu Yanyan But let me explain to you The reason I didn't divorce her is She asked me for 100 million. 100 million He's a lion with a big mouth Actually, it's my fault. Blame me for not signing any agreement with him before we got married Maybe I'll have to sue him later. Oh yeah What about you? Why didn't you leave with him? Is it because you don't want to What did you say? I waited for him for a long time that day I can't get through on the phone. I guess something delayed me. Give me a call I'll help you contact I Ouch, they just took my phone away Don't worry, I'll buy you a new one Oh, do you remember the number? I remember, but I'll contact you myself. I think it's inappropriate for you to contact me. Too Um That's too late. I'm leaving first. What's wrong? If you go back like this Grandma will be very worried if she sees this. Okay, it's getting late. Little fish your bag This is the sweetness of love No, I have to contact my mysterious husband. Hi, my phone was stolen. I waited for you for a long time that day You didn't come I can't get through by phone. Um I wonder if you are free this week. Let's find some time to get a divorce. Honey, this is the chicken soup I made for you. Why don't you try it? go out Hello, we agreed to get a divorce that day. I've been waiting for you for a long time. I didn't come. I don't know if you are free this week. If so, let's get a divorce. What's wrong, husband? You're not my wife at all Why did he start to doubt me again? Hahahaha what nonsense are you talking about Honey, of course I am your wife. Really? You said you are my wife. Who was the person who sent me a message asking me out for a divorce? Didn't I say that? My phone was stolen This is fraudulent information Don't believe him This is not the number I used to contact you before. OK Since you said you are my wife Then let me read out your contact number. Isn't it the one with the last number 4593? wrong That's not my personal number. You have so many private numbers. How can I possibly remember it all? OK Then I'll call the police now. You talk to the police nicely. I've been scammed all these years. Waited for me for a long time Why didn't I see him that day? Hello It's the same voice from before. He is indeed a fake. Feel sorry I recognized the wrong person that day It's not me who broke the promise Oh, that's how it is. It's okay. It's okay. Otherwise, we'll get a divorce tomorrow. Will you be free tomorrow Yeah Hey, how about this? Tomorrow we will each wear a jasmine flower Do you think it's okay? Okay, see you tomorrow. Bye-Bye Why Finally solved this problem Let me check things out. Find this Xu Yanyan and settle the score Jasmine wants to settle accounts with me That's bound to disappoint you. Jasmine How could it be you How come we just met yesterday? You don't recognize me today. How do you have jasmine? Not you Let's each wear a jasmine flower when we meet. I will take Jasmine to the Civil Affairs Bureau to meet him then. Find a way to cover up this lie. But Jiang Xiaoyu must not appear OK Leave Jiang Xiaoyu to me Don't worry, I'll keep him forever. It's always me who disappears I told you I'm your wife But you never believed me So I played a little game with you How is it fun? So you sent me that message yesterday. Yeah, I sent it. Oh yeah That's my new number. Remember to leave me a note, wife. dream OK Now that you are here Then let's get a divorce. Divorce is possible, of course. But you have to prepare 100 million in advance Or two hundred million you Hello Mr. Jin Jiang Xiaoyu's grandmother came to the company Said that Jiang Xiaoyu couldn't be contacted What? I'll be there right away. Grandma Something happened to Xiaoyu Grandma, don't worry. Tell me the details. Come sit down. My aunt is getting a divorce today I called him after I left for a while. Say you buy two pounds of pork head when you come back This is said The phone is silent. Something must have happened. That bad husband must have done something to her. Who is Jiang Xiaoyu's husband? No results found Haven't called Jiang Xiaoyu yet The new numbers issued by the company to employees are not working. Call private Grandma, can you give Xiaoyu another call? The user you are calling is temporarily unavailable Please call again later sorry grandma Please tell me the number and I will call you. good He, he, he he Changed my phone number I can't remember clearly It is 165130 how much You see, you are so young. You are also deaf 9165130 Why does this number sound so familiar to me? Mr. Qin's call is through Jiang Xiaoyu, where are you? Say something It's you, Mr. Qin Who are you Is Jiang Xiaoyu with you? Don't hurt her You can ask for any conditions. Any request is possible? I want you, okay? No Little fish ah What did you do to her? I want her to be well Just take yourself in exchange I'm in the west of the city Abandoned warehouse waiting for you No more waiting Okay, I promise you. Don't hurt her You can ask for any conditions. Small fish What's wrong Grandma is fine. Someone just played a prank on us. Oh grandma, you go back first I'll go back with Xiaoyu in a minute. Sister Xu sent grandma back Grandma, please come with me. You must bring your aunt back. Grandma, don't worry. Mr. Qin found out Where Weak signal It should be in the south warehouse The police have already sent someone over. But the phone told me to go to the west of the city. He must be confusing You said these three burning incense sticks How many scars can it leave on your face? No, don't burn me. Can I make you full of holes? We have no grudges Why are you doing this to me? How can there be no grudges? Look carefully at who I am Chen Jing Ni Hui Liao Wo De Yi Qie You took away my most important thing. Do you think this is a crime worthy of death? Ruined your face Xiaoyun I didn't mean to burn you. Why are you blocking for him? Let me see your hands It's okay. It doesn't hurt at all. Why are you bleeding so much? Xiaoyue Xiaoyue Doctor, how is she? Pregnant woman's belly was hit by external force Causes accidental miscarriage abortion You mean you didn't even know she was pregnant? It's been almost two months. Qing Muchuan you are a waste He couldn't even protect the woman he loved. What's wrong with you Why are you crying? Am I suffering from some terminal illness? How come you, as a father, don't pay attention? Abortion is extremely harmful to pregnant women physically and psychologically. It's my fault Doctor, she doesn't know she's pregnant yet. Please keep the abortion a secret for me. Don't think too much. The doctor said you just had a stomachache. I have to take good care of my body in these few months. I was scared to death I thought I was going to die. light rain I didn't protect you You protected me well, idiot. Aren't I fine? Oh yeah Chen Jing Bei Zhua Qi Lai Liao Ma Calm down Bang Ni Na Ge Ren Shi Chen Jing Well, he hit me with a stick. Calm down good I have something to deal with. Wait for me. Mr. Qin Is Jiang Xiaoyu okay? No big deal Did the police catch the murderer? I almost caught it. A group of hooligans suddenly rushed out to stop the police Let people run away He Jing Cha Shuo Xiong Shou Shi Chen Jing Calm down How could it be him? Pass it on and Qin Group will provide tens of millions of funds Xie Zhu Jing Cha Zhua Bu Chen Jing Anyone who provides clues will be rewarded Shi Chen Jing Ni Shang Wo Qi Er I won't let you go I told you not to buy so much. I can't finish it Why is it you? I heard you were sick and hospitalized. Come and see you If you can't finish the fruit, just throw it away. I picked it up from the garbage dump anyway. I happen to think it's a good match for you. Just bring it with you Take your broken stuff with you. You are not welcome here I really envy this kid. I can still be so heartless even if I'm gone What child This is lotus root and pork ribs soup My grandma taught me how to do it. Give it to grandma after eating. Make a phone call Don't let her worry about you. Who bullied you? Are you hiding something from me? What? child Where are our children? You're talking. It's all my fault I didn't protect my child. It's okay, you can have another child if you lose him. Don't blame you It's all my fault. I didn't protect you Xu Yan told me that you don't want a child You asked the doctor to abort the baby. Don't listen to his nonsense. I know he's talking nonsense. Hai Si Hai Zi De Ren Shi Chen Jing Chen Jing Xian Zai Bei Jing Cha Tong Qi Liao She will be punished by law. Mr. Qin, I found out Uh, why don't I go out first? You better have something to say Mr. Qin, this matter is very important Concerning Xu Yanyan What is Xu Yanyan's important matter? I swear I don't like Xu Yanyan at all I have nothing to do with her. You and Xu Yanyan really have nothing to do with each other I checked Xu Yanyan's marital status is single I don't know which part went wrong. Xu Yanyan and you did not get a marriage certificate So your wife is someone else? Mr. Qin is really amazing I don't even know who my wife is. The prince was replaced by a cat This is also normal. Besides Don't you know who your husband is? Who said I am not you? How could I not know who my husband is? Grandma told me you don't know Why does grandma tell you everything? There's nothing I can do. My grandma likes me too much. Hey, then I still Now it's important Shouldn't I find my real wife first? And then get a divorce? Otherwise, let's make a bet. Who will divorce first? If you lose, you move to the other person's house. If you lose Then you have to marry into my family. I am the president of Qin Group. What's the point of finding someone? Huh? I'm not like some people I have God Secret husband's phone number I can reach him with a phone call. The user you are calling is temporarily unavailable Secretary Jiang, your situation The phone number may have been blacklisted by the other party. Why did he blacklist me? Excuse me I gave him a black card. I just need to check his bank statement. I'll find this person soon. If someone loses, stop crying. Xu Jie packs luggage for Mrs. Qin Hello Mr. Qin Hey Secretary Xu Could you help me make a call? OK, tell me your phone number. 135618813 ah What's wrong Say it again 1356188 Yeah Are you sure this is your husband's phone number? Isn't this Mr. Qin's? ah How could this possibly be Mr. Qin's? And I have Mr. Qin's phone number. This is Mr. Qin's private number. Only a few people know it's impossible This is impossible Absolutely impossible Oh yeah I also have this This is the black card my husband gave me. Please help me see Um This also belongs to Mr. Qin. So that's it Qin Muchuan is my husband That mysterious lady is me. It seems like this at the moment Oh my god I won't get fired for knowing too much. I'll tell Mr. Qin now. Hey wait a minute I'll take a call first. Hey divorce Oh well Qin Wuchuan asked me out Tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock, I will take Jasmine to the Civil Affairs Bureau divorce It should be Mr. Qin Otherwise tell him. No, I want to give him a surprise. Hello Mr. Qin Good luck to you. Waiting for others? Xiaoyu, why are you here instead of in the hospital? Are you feeling better? You're here for a divorce, huh? You rest assured I will definitely get a divorce today You are my wife So you always complain to me That stingy boss is me. So you keep complaining That rash assistant is me. Fortunately it's you Then you still can't leave Never leave in this life Mr. Qin, it's not good. It's not good. Xu Yan ran away with the company's money Who gave him the authority? The old man gave it to me Oh, grandpa forgot about this. Alarm No The police have already surrounded the airport. grandfather Your secretary said You are sick and hospitalized Which ward are you in? I am sick Who told you I was sick? I wasn't hospitalized Ni Na Ge Mi Shu Chen Jing A Chen Jing Grandpa is now a wanted criminal. Hey, Grandpa. What happened Grandpa was caught by Shen Ming Yujie, take Xiaoyu to report to the police I'll go to the hospital to see grandpa first I'll send you the address later. Wait, I'll go with you. Good trip Dead old man Please cooperate with me later. Tak Mu River Where have you been You don't come again This old man is going to die. What did you do to my grandpa? Where are you? oops How could you not guess what they are thinking? I loved you so much Of course it's 520 520 Yeah, I love you too. See you there. Wait you you are a madman Not Wearing father You are finally here I've been waiting for you for a long time. grandfather Hey, don't come over here. Believe it or not, I will make this old man bleed to death on the spot What grudge do you have against me? Don't hurt me Grandpa, I love you so much How can it hurt you? What you want I want you good I'll switch with him. It's fine exchange sure But you have to guess who I am first. What's there to guess? Ni Jiu Shi Chen Jing I guessed wrong. You still don't remember me. But who made me like you? Come over here grandfather Friendly reminder from grandpa If the old man doesn't go to the hospital for emergency treatment But it's too late Small fish Take grandpa to see a doctor right away Wuchuan, wait for me here I'll be back soon. Now all the people who were in the way have gone. There are only two of us left. You know what I'm going to do, right? You want me to die with you, hahahaha I guessed it right. It turns out that you understand me best. You can't be mine when I'm alive Then you will be mine after I die. Qin Muchuan You woke up Do you feel uncomfortable anywhere? Dizzy, the doctor said you have a mild concussion. Be sure to rest well Fortunately, you notified the police in advance. Xu Jie and I took good protection That's the fifth floor. If you have any problems Then I won't live. Don't talk nonsense If I Die You have to live well too What nonsense are you talking about? You have to make me angry, don't you? Okay, by the way, where's grandpa? Grandpa is fine. He's in the next ward. Dui Liao Chen Jing Qu Jing Shen Bing Yi Yuan Liao Psychiatric Hospital Police investigation Zhen Zheng De Chen Jing Zao Jiu Ding Ju Zai Guo Wai Liao Wo Men Ren Shi Na Ge Chen Jing A Her real name is Aya She's a mental patient. Previously abused Then he escaped from the mental hospital. Hou Lai Mou Chong Chen Jing Qu Liao Qin Shi Aya Ahahaha Where did the beggar come from? Dare to steal our things This is Hanako She looks pretty good. Do you want to eat something? Take off your clothes We'll buy you food. What are you guys doing? Get out of here now I want to call the police It's so late Stay away from drunks when you see them next time, okay? I'm hungry. Okay, wait for me. Got it, Grandpa will go back right away Girl, um Go 500 meters ahead and there is a police station. Do you know if I need to ask the police? Why My name is Aya What's your name? Qin Muchuan So that's what happened. No wonder he kept asking you last night Do you still remember him? Grandma Grandma Make you something delicious I made them all myself. Healthy and hygienic Grandma, your cooking skills are simply amazing Better than those big restaurants out there. Oh, just say nice things I heard You fell down from the building because of grandpa. You are such a filial child. Much better than Xiaoyu's husband I don't come back once a year. Who knows? He has a mistress outside. He is very bad. Hey grandma What did you say? What mistress? Nothing That Aunt Sun next door Her son-in-law is having a mistress outside. Her daughter cried bitterly. Ah grandma I believe Xiaoyu's husband is definitely not that kind of person. What do you know? How can he compare with you? Oh, that's right. Didn't you say you would be together after the divorce? Then hurry up I'm anxious to hold my great-granddaughter. Hahaha He is the dead husband who never comes home all year round You said your husband who didn't come back that year was him oh I'm probably old. Let me take a good look at it Go back to sleep again Grandma Fish Did he get up? I don't eat chili peppers. I said little fish Where's Xiaoyu? Has he gotten up? I'm sleeping. Sleeping, right? I made breakfast but no one got up to eat Why Grandma, I'll go call him. stand up Can you sleep a little longer? stand up We have to go to kindergarten later. Participating in Tiantian and Ziyang's parent-child sports meeting Let grandma go for me I'm not going I still have to go downstairs to practice Tai Chi with that old man Qin. If you don't get up again I'll tickle you oops I can't live this day anymore I want a divorce Jiang Xiaoyu, are you sure? I'm just teasing you. snort I'm angry Hey hey hey Don't be angry I told you I was just teasing you Okay, if I ask you a question, When did we first meet? May 21 So when did you fall in love with me? Uh, this Well, if you can't answer this question, I'm really angry I'm teasing you Of course, it was the first time I met you. Who made you a handsome guy? I'm attracted to you Handsome guy Handsome guy OK Don't look at it, go have breakfast good