This episode is The special theory of that one person's past When time is relative, Today, we peer deeper to find that the immutable emerges when we discover the Recently, we've been of spacetime in the vicinity of Very soon, we'll be to peer at the interior There, space and but to truly understand we need to think a little bit is described in relativity. Today, we're going to look at that time, or more accurately on the fabric of spacetime. First, let's recap a little bit of relativity. There are two previous that will be useful here if you Special relativity tells us that and time are, well, relative. If I accelerate my rocket ship the distance I need to shrinks dramatically An observer I leave behind observes me traveling the but will perceive my The combination of this length allows both moving and to agree on how much at the end of the journey. Everyone agrees on the on everyone else's clock. They just don't agree on the Reminder-- time measured on their own clock is but counting those clock ticks to agree on spacetime There's this thing called relates observer dependent and duration of any journey that even if they don't and delta t of that journey. We've talked about it before, to understand intuitively. But we want that intuition the spacetime interval In relativity, 3D become a 4D entity To preserve our this on a spacetime diagram one dimension of space. We'll see our causal geometry in this simplified picture. There is no standing still If I don't move travel forward in time second per second according Motion at a constant velocity and the time axis is scaled is a 45 degree line. Now, let's say we have a They start at the origin, They race away to the left according to their own watches. They all travel at some close to the speed of The path they cut is called their world line. My world line is and the tick marks correspond to my own The faster a traveler moves, That's not just because To me, their clocks tick slow. They time their journey so I perceive them Accounting for this, we find are arranged on a curve This shape is a hyperbola. Drawing a connecting line at proper time clock gives a but these aren't These curves are kind the gradient of causality down into spacetime by the equations To understand why, how these proper time contours travelers. Instead of doing we can see it with geometry. First, we need to draw from the perspective of To transform the to figure out what they see Time is easy. They see themselves so their time axis is just their line. And their x-axis? Well, from my stationary I define my x-axis as a long at different distances, but at time t equals 0. To observe those points, until their light At every future a signal arrives from and I use that to build up a defining my t equals 0 x-axis. Our traveler does but from my point of so I see them register At the same time, from the signals and towards the ones affecting which signals are The traveler infers a set that, to me, are but there is no preferred Their sloped x-axis Even just doing we see that the is rotated by the same That comes from see the same speed on the spacetime diagram. Moving between these is now a simple our traveler's axes. In fact, we grid up the parallel to these new axes while maintaining our My world line is now while our traveler We just performed a but using geometry This transformation allows you like distance, time, velocity, shift between reference frames. But check out what to all of the intersections They trace out hyperbola. Those intersections represent relative to the origin. They will always land on the the observer's reference frame. I told you that where clocks moving reach the same proper time each represents a single value The delta x and at the end point of a might change depending but the hyperbolic contour the spacetime This is because the spacetime from the Lorentz transformation, of spacetime separation that under that transformation. Now, we can finally get to and what it really represents. It may seem counter-intuitive close to the origin can be separated by the same spacetime interval distant in both space and time. The hyperbolic shape seems it takes the same to travel from the origin to compared to a distant far future From the point of communicating some those points are equivalent. The spacetime interval We can think of these on a sort of causal geography. The way I define the it becomes increasingly negative so we can represent this as a here at the origin. I naturally slide through straight down. I can change that path to change my velocity, realigns the slide down the steepest path. There's no point that I can't reach as enough to the speed of light. In fact, the nearest defines the forward light on the spacetime diagram. But uphill is impossible limit is maintained. Breaking that speed limit and To reverse the direction of is to reverse the to travel backwards in time. The spacetime diagram was for a flat or in which faster is the only way to flip But in the crazy curved it gets flipped for you. We'll soon see how this causal evolution leads to when we try to calculate interval of spacetime. A big thank you to Audible for and also for making it possible while riding crowded Lately, I've been zoning from two other New Yorkers. Janna Levin's &quot;Black a wonderful take that gravitational waves Also, Caleb Scharf's gets into my favorite quasars, and especially they are in the evolution Check them out, for at audible.com/spacetime &quot;Space Time&quot; is possible Watching is, of course, a huge But an extra thanks is warranted who throw in a few to help us cover the costs. And an extra, extra who's supporting us David, we're naming an It's a beautiful barred spiral It'll be called David. We skipped comments last week so today, we're tackling and quasars. Michael Lloyd asks, &quot;Is the of the core of a of the limitations of three Well, maybe, sort of. One way out of the at the center of black which proposes that particles spacetime result from coiled dimensions, One idea is that the is composed of a ball of raw and that no infinite We'll get back to Jose Hernandez says that, infinity is just a number. For a physicist, Not true-- everyone goes mad Mathematician Georg Cantor the mathematics we use to study He was in and out of sanitariums Joan Eunice asks whether there's a stable orbit could be created, be like there? Well, the smallest stable is the so-called innermost It's three times the for a non-rotating black hole. Below that, accreting material very quickly, and would be significant there. We actually do see the in some of the from right near the black hole. Ion atoms, orbiting the Schwarzschild shield radius, electron transition at a very particular frequency, We see that these as they climb out of the black That gravitational as gravitational time dilation. Mike Cammiso asks occurs inside accretion disks. Well, although quasar can reach some pretty they aren't particularly dense. Stars are so good because they're the cause That said, it may be that disks sometimes become and collapse, in get some weird stardust-like But accretion disks understood because they're so this is all speculation. Bikram Sao asks how must have been to produce Well, the answer is but nowhere near the mass of These giant black growing since the dawn and by merging with The original seed have been left over by large first generation of stars, the mass of the sun. But by now, some of those have the mass of the sun. Cinestar Productions &quot;When my dad was in one of those easy so he took a class on in the universe. He was not a science student. He took the class because he thought Facepalm.&quot; I hear you. And to all my students in no, we're not learning Yes, it's going to be Yes, there is a curve. No, watching &quot;Space Time&quot; but it can't hurt. Right?