Hello, and welcome to Aviation Deep Dive The Corsair is one of the most distinctive War. An American designed and built naval fighter-bomber, immediately recognisable. But the design team, led by Rex Beisel, used because it was the easiest and most effective practicality. The 18 cylinder Pratt and Whitney R-2800 Double Standard propeller that would have fouled But giving the wing a downward kink, precisely engine and propeller could be accommodated short and sturdy enough to survive deck landings. The Double Wasp engine and fuel tank were for a large part of its ten metre length, and the nickname 'Hose Nose' from its But this design also meant that the Corsair to land than its pilots would have liked. This is where the Royal Navy, or more precisely, The Fleet Air Arm was the unloved stepchild It had only been handed over to the Royal the control of the RAF, who had not had the care of it. The legacy was a strange collection of mismatched war than the one that broke out in September They had the Fairey Swordfish, a biplane torpedo more than its ageing looks promised, but which They had the Blackburn Skua, an unwieldy fighter-bomber plodding handling, as well as its stablemate but with a turret replacing the very brave And a few months later, they had the Fairey Battle that also fought well but which was bomber and try to act like a fighter. The only truly dedicated fighter was the Sea Like the Swordfish, this was a biplane that than the Second, and although it would perform hopelessly outclassed. And that forms a postscript to all these aircraft. Outdated and designed by well-intentioned success to some brave crews fighting forbidding But as the war continued and Britain found Atlantic, the Mediterranean, the Indian Ocean resource-strapped Fleet Air Arm that it needed more aircraft - particularly ones that were more equal terms. The most obvious way of solving the problem neither aircraft was ideal. The Spitfire's narrow track, outwardly retracting to the impact of carrier landings and deck The Hurricane was better, but it was a much Both of them lacked the range needed for naval where the minimum requirement for an effective standing patrols which might last for hours. Part of the answer lay in an unfilled French took over. They soon ordered more to fill the yawning Pilots liked the Wildcat and praised it for Seeing as the American aircraft industry had aircraft, the British hoped that the next better. When the Corsair was suggested, they took its range, and placed an order. The Fleet Air Arm pilots duly had their first when the pilots of four squadrons travelled Point in Rhode Island in the eastern United They gradually progressed through basic familiarisation deck landings on US carriers. But there were accidents, some of them fatal, would be. They had conducted deck trials back in 1942 a way that made it inherently unsafe for carrier Instead, they gave it to land-based US Marine time in combat at Guadalcanal in February of the 'ensign eliminator' for its unforgiving It was not accepted for service on American The difficulty of operating an aircraft with carrier deck was obvious, but there were other, The Corsairs tended to float as they completed When they were finally slammed onto the deck, the arrestor wires meant to catch the aircraft's worse yet, flew over it completely and veered watched in horror. There is even one story of a pilot being decapitated And there was another, equally fatal flaw. As the airspeed bled off, the left wing of the aircraft to the left. A rookie pilot who tried to get out of the power would find that the increased torque would make this much, much worse and flip time to recover. The Fleet Air Arm now had to address these Britain needed aircraft, the Corsair was available, to work. Necessity meant that they made several changes. . onto the oleo legs from the undercarriage And they also introduced a wide, curving approach, would lead the Corsair down onto the deck would keep the carrier deck visible until Other modifications also made other aspects British carriers had armoured decks, which below the flight deck. Eight inches had to be clipped off the wings which had the unintended benefit of improving on landing. The top flaps on the cowling were locked down windscreen, the seat was raised in later versions, roomy canopy was introduced for the same reason, on RAF Mustangs. It meant that the early Mark I Corsairs looked with their restrictive greenhouse canopies As the new modifications started being made, by 510 of the more advanced F4U-1s delivered IIs in British service. Even though 430 more would come from Brewster III, poor quality control meant that none these would lose their wings in flight due Fortunately, 857 more came from Goodyear as along with the Mark II, that would see action. As well as an updated camouflage scheme more England, the Corsair II and IV would also in the Pacific as intended. The RAF roundels of the period had a large it from the thick blue outer circle. Japanese aircraft also featured a large, red to Allied servicemen and the British felt might be mistaken for the Japanese markings. So, from September 1943, the red disc was US-style bars were added in March 1945 to But all these paint schemes lay in the future. Despite the fact that the aircraft that was the British Corsairs' first operational in an attack on the German battleship Tirpitz They flew as top cover for Fairey Barracuda in an attack that left the Bismarck-class at anchor in Kaafjord. There were further attacks on the Tirpitz, flak batteries by strafing them. One of the pilots was a Canadian, Lieutenant through a particularly dense curtain of anti-aircraft name crops up again in the Corsair's story The Corsairs were in action again later the and nearby merchant shipping, but it was in had their greatest success. They announced their arrival by joining a Illustrious in Sri Lanka, helping to mount and then joining in with an attack on Port escort and as a combat air patrol over the a huge advantage. The Eastern Fleet were boosted by two more of 1834 and 1836 squadrons and in July 1944 selected to attack a radar and communications They also recorded their first air-to-air Sally bomber and an A6M Zero to the west of The Japanese retaliated, and the Corsairs of their pilots winning a Distinguished Service In mid-September, US forces landed on the taking part in diversionary raids against at Sigli in northern Sumatra. They scored seven more victories over Nakajima in October. In November 1944, the British Pacific Fleet to give it even more weight. HMS Victorious had 1834 and 1836 Squadrons, and HMS Formidable had 1841 and 1842 Squadrons, to the Royal Navy. They began strikes against Japanese oil production attacking airfields at Medan, Tandjonpoera activity and Sub Lieutenant Leslie Durno became he shot down a K1-46 Dinah and shared in the More attacks came against refineries in Palembang with Nakajima Ki-44 Tojos that were led by but in a later strike against Soengei Gerong fire and although he managed to ditch his The fleet sailed for the invasion of Okinawa growing hazard was the committed kamikaze While one was shot down, along with a Zero, and slammed into the island on Indefatigable. Kamikaze attacks continued as the fleet progressed Corsairs being wiped out by in a strike on Don Sheppard claimed his fifth kill to become By the time the fleet retired to Sydney, it 42 Japanese aircraft shot down. With Okinawa successfully taken, attacks started There were repeated strikes on shipping, on in reality, there were few Japanese aircraft The last Corsair kill over Japan was a lonely, bomber that was shot down heading for the a few weeks before the end of the war on August Robert Hampton Gray had flown in the attack Service Cross for sinking a Japanese destroyer to harass shipping when he saw the destroyer Diving in to attack, he sank the vessel with hit. Gray crashed into the bay and was killed. His bravery earned him a posthumous Victoria For the British Corsairs, the end came just With the cessation of hostilities, the Fleet home. The squadrons were swiftly disbanded, and with their aircraft. This is why this chapter of the Corsair story in 1946. Under the terms of the Lend Lease agreement, it had borrowed for the duration of hostilities, America did not want them and postwar Britain had to be made. Aircraft that had served with the British but never flown were gathered together at Australia, waiting for the arrival of half These carriers then had the aircraft loaded to locations around the Sunshine Coast and dumped into the sea. Fire axes were used to make holes in some ended their working lives in the same way. A Corsair cost 75,000 dollars to build and around 54 million dollars' worth of cutting making their final journey to the bottom of An Australian company called International back to the surface in the early nineties, and when they reached the surface, it turned However, there are still plenty of preserved Most are in the US, but two of them are in Collection in Duxford. It was originally delivered to the US Navy British Mark IV. The other is also a Mark IV, and is resident having first been delivered to the Royal Navy Another can be found in Robert Hampton Gray's his aircraft, but had to be sold to a private Its combat career might only have lasted around impact on the Fleet Air Arm. Despite teething troubles that asked difficult them a fighter whose endurance and combat They deserved more than the watery and ignominious in British aviation history is secure. A huge thanks to my Patrons, on screen now, much for watching this video of Aviation Deep Consider liking and subscribing for more weekly us on Patreon - see you in the skies.