So in the 1970s, there was this experiment draw some pictures. But before that, the children were split into One group was told that that they would receive had no reward. After the drawings were finished, the researchers for a couple weeks - and the results were And not just &quot;the unanticipated arrival of *Goat bleat* But I'll come back to that - because I should Often in design, we want to motivate players. Perhaps motivate them to learn a new mechanic, or just get them to play the game for longer. And a popular solution for this is the goal... Do this, get that. Like, quests that lead to experience points. Challenges that unlock cosmetics. And those cheeky Xbox achievements which are But I'm here to tell you that goals and rewards And, in fact, in this video I'm going to explain When Klei was making the initial prototype they quickly realised that testers had no became stuck. So the testers were given a few hints - and to experiment, explore, and started to have In response, Klei decided to create a series get started. Survive this many nights. Find this many items. That sort of thing. And it worked! But only so much as players learned how to Because beyond that, the quests were a complete Klei discovered that players focused exclusively else as a noisy distraction. They optimised their play in really boring They avoided doing anything risky, because And then they became completely demotivated Klei says &quot;In structuring the game as a series the player to depend upon those tasks to create In the end, Klei solved its onboarding problem hints about how to get started - such as highlighting But the quests were left on the cutting room Because if a game is about experimentation, goals can limit a player's creativity and Even after the goals run out. This is exactly what drove the development The developers deliberately avoided giving or even what you're trying to achieve - so solar system through a sense of curiosity Okay, here's another story. Zach Barth makes problem-solving puzzle games like Exapunks and Shenzen I/O. In these games, you can make the machines But it's actually really fun to go back in, make it, say, smaller or faster. So in Zach's first two commercial games, Spacechem that encourage this sort of optimisation - like &quot;No Thanks Necessary&quot; in under 2200 cycles.&quot; But, in all the games released after that What's up with that? ZACH: &quot;We wanted to add achievements because That was back before I thought achievements ZACH: &quot;The thing i don't like about them is We have something that's far more meaningful What Zach's talking about is a bounty of metrics There's your own personal score. There's leaderboards that compare you to your And there are these brilliant histograms that to every other player. All of these - the strive to beat your personal players - are extremely strong motivators As Zach says: &quot;a goal that you set yourself sets for you&quot;. So if a game is about improving yourself, motivator than a set threshold. My final story comes from the adorable track-laying The game's developers wanted to focus on personal And so - according to UI designer Jamie Churchman goal and reward meta structures as they can For example, the game does have unlockable at the beginning of the game. But Jamie acknowledges that some people will the next one, and when they've unlocked all the game and can stop playing. We should remember that goals are a checklist And like with Don't Starve, some players will purpose and direction. But measurements of your skill - such as leaderboards continue to improve on your personal best still play Tetris after three decades. To truly understand what's happening here, of behavioural psychology. When thinking about motivation, one of the and intrinsic motivation. To make it simple, extrinsic motivation is the task itself - usually in order to receive Or, as that's better known: a job. On the other hand, intrinsic motivation is because we find it enjoyable or meaningful. Or, as that's better known: a hobby. Intrinsic motivation is shown to be far stronger People can enjoy a hobby for a lifetime. Extrinsic motivation will only last as long Just see if someone will still work in your And this bring us back to that classroom from Okay, so the point of the study was that the before the study began. They were intrinsically motivated. Then, they were asked to make a picture - and, and the second group wasn't. Afterwards, the researchers continued to watch and found that the children who received a Well, they showed much less interest in drawing And their pictures were of a lower quality Which is - wow, way to burn a bunch of kids, This is called the overjustification effect. And there's a huge body of evidence that says task that we already find intrinsically motivating, the task. And other studies show rewards also make people prone to cheating, and may lose motivation previously they were happy to do it for its Whoops! And I think we can apply this idea to game Because there are certainly games that lean Like games that focus on exploration, creativity, There are games where you set your own goals And so when more extrinsically motivating meters, and achievements - are added to these We become blinkered to creative solutions. We're less motivated to improve ourselves. We put an arbitrary threshold on how much And developers now need to create a constant losing us entirely. Of course, that's not to say that developers more intrinsically motivating games. Because, I think it's clear that some people themselves. For every Minecraft super fan who generates simply lost and without direction. It reminds me of my all-time favourite Steam In a thread about the open-ended whodunnit decide when you are satisfied with the information To which the thread's author replied, &quot;how That post keeps me up at night. Anyway - the nice thing about goals and rewards to play. So they can still be used, they just have For example, with goals - it's better to use complete however they want, rather than restrictive You can focus on comparative metrics, like rather than absolute thresholds. Make goals optional, like Hitman's challenges, And in terms of rewards - well, actually there to not trigger the overjustification effect. Because, in that study with the children - there were simply told to go off and draw - but In the following weeks, these children spent - if only by a small margin beyond the kids This, and plenty of other studies, show that intrinsic situations - provided that they're tied to the actual performance of the action. An example of this in games might be Overwatch's reel showcasing the best moment in the match. It doesn't really do anything, but it's a the starring role. And this is all over Nintendo's latest blockbusters. In Odyssey, there's nothing telling you to but here's a cheeky cache of coins as a pat And in Breath of the Wild, every suspicious As Nintendo's Bill Trinen says: &quot;When they don't tell you how to play their game in order There are things you can do in the game that surprise. In my mind, that really encourages the sense I do that, I'm going to get some sort of