A really big thank you to both Noel Those sort of moments when and has an interest and a love I was saying this to Aurora (Gasull) last night. I put all my work online and then it's sort of interesting that And then, completely out of the blue, maybe shows it to some the students please show some work in our amount of encouragement So thank you very much. I thought it was really interesting this morning were talking about sort of themes that seem of kind of emerging patterns, of algorithms, of applying some form of control or not I'll actually be mentioning some of I'll be kind of applying them to myself, though, the way I code or the way It's actually sort of algorithms and emerging patterns that where sit down and think about what actually This is the first time I've done a talk like this, Luckily in the summer I bumped into an old friend We used to share a house together. ' I've actually got half a dozen of your You left them at the house when you moved out.' And these sketchbooks went back 30 years and they were a real insight to what I was It was really interesting to see patterns ways that I'd approached working, an interest in relationship with technology, within making work as well. So I think unless I'd seen those sketchbooks, So that's where the 'Emerging patterns' It's kind of looking back at some of the ways in which I've kind of approached And seeing those emerging patterns come through And the 'Electric paintings' actually to my first piece of moving image work, which was my first piece of work and it was also really thinking... even though I'm working with So that was quite an insightful title This is actually some of the They were a series of images that I'd I was really interested in construction sites and I became really fascinated by what I but I realised later on, I was really in the infrastructure of the city. I was really interested in the way that I was interested in the transport systems, from Clapham Junction towards the city. I was really interested in the fact of the London tube system that sort of had a but not quite, it didn't quite match up. And then when I moved to I didn't have that infrastructure to kind of look at, And a lot of the same things were happening boulders of concrete foundations and then, it would become more and more refined, everything So once the plumbing pipes went in and then you could actually see the construction And I was lucky that they were building a large an enormous crater in the middle of Nottinhgam and they decided to put a So I go with a VHS camera, and what felt like the largest and I walk over there there and just and hope something interesting would happen. I had no concept of constructing scenes, I was so used to doing still life painting prior to this, So I didn't even consider moving the camera. And then I would take this video material and a VHS linear tape-to-tape edit suite. experience of working wit And it was a steep learning curve, even though I've kind of engaged with technology it doesn't come easy to me. I tend to get some kind of process in place. You couldn't really do very and I had limited amount There was some basic effects like Pixel8. you could composite the image and it was kind of okay but I wasn't particularly until one day, I didn't quite edit 2 and I got a little glitch in between. And this was like a door opening up for me. It was way more interesting it seemed to be really like a pure signal, pure And really ephemeral, it would come and then go, So I start to gather these glitches quite often, just photographing them I did find an essay and some notes where... I talk quite a lot and I've always had a real love for music, And at the time I was listening to a lot of bands like Microstoria, SND, Oval, And some of these groups were just the electric signal of sound around and it felt like really exciting landscapes to me. And I did make a few notes wondering even though I kind of stumbled And then I presented these works I think I must have recorded at least because I remember somebody looking at on but he was sure that it was moving. the units of animation. I presumed the lowest unit of animation was 2, they really thought the images were moving. It was maybe to do with the fact that and they expected something to happen. creating some kind of movement But that really made me think about well, So quite a lot of the work just And for the second time it started like a where I was giving up the autonomy to a kind of exploration, This is an animation of the glitches. I thought this was just the And I was also really interested to find a couple the top one was made, probably, in '95. I'd stop painting and started using felt-tip pens, because I really wanted a really and I couldn't really achieve that with oil paint. So i' started making these little felt-tip drawings. I produced the bottom panel the top sketches kind of drifted through that I wasn't actually quite aware of. When I finished University, And I didn't have a video card for about a year, with audio clips in WaveLab. And then I got my video card, and I think just working like a painter. I really and my computer was nowhere near up of any effects that I'd added I had to export it out to see that, even short clips So I kind of hit this wall with technology, where I was And it kind of dawned on me that I wasn't it was really important to me and the way that that felt kind of comfortable So the reason I'm mentioning this period, I was invited to produce some And I asked my friend Jim Boxall We had 2 VHS players each, And we just played video clips from documentaries, we mixed to a DJ or a band that was And it was the first time I realised, there was and responsively as well. So I was really he was responding to what I was playing. And there was an audience for the first time, as well. And it felt like a really organic, natural way And it kind of gave me... It reignited an interest in working with To supplement some of the videos which was lot of Stanley Kubrick clips, and A shocking amount of Koyaanisqatsi so lots of found material. But to supplement, I started to make And we sometimes worked thematically, when we were doing live visuals. So I'd make kind of receding circles, or I'd make a scrolling colour bar And it'd be really effective if you'd kind of You could really start almost depending on how you applied The other thing I was doing Because I was helping out with the it gave me a deadline every month to produce work, when I left University. Just like And I was also making videos for friends who I would just gather together The one on the left is for the and the other one was a whose band I recorded, and then, And this really was just about as much There's a sort of interesting relationship with technology, I'm still kind of fascinated by technology, and I was starting to dip my tools into After Effects, really intrigued by the fact that you could within the software itself. I was a reluctant camera man, but what I was actually really interested And then there was a bit of software that, possibly, although I was still going out with At the time I was really interested in textures as a And some of my early After Effects Just exercises on how to I was really trying to work out how to deal with layers, I found working with layers of I remember keyframes being quite And then, just trying to learn the basics, how do you mask something out, how do So all these individual sketches And I think at the time, at some or I wondered what would happen And that's really how I started in again, a really kind of speculative way I was really interested in the and I think I'd taken that from my But in the software, there were all these like anchor points, and mask shapes, There were motion trails when you They would all disappear so I spent quite a lot of time just working out And this is probably a period before there I certainly wasn't aware of any at the time. And I was really working really just like a canvas, it was like where the materials here, may move, There isn't going to be another scene, a kind of temporal arc involved in this. And I was just allowing the but I was building in some kind in that I would purposely ... if I was making I making a little animation, I would so some would be 10'' long ,some would be 18'' So that if they did loop, they were always going to and offer different compositional options. So again, just allowing chance These are some examples of just placing materials and just looking for the kind of incident, I'd be really excited by the sweep of that composition, the texture of the diamonds . Or on the bottom right hand image, where the image seems to sort Or the bottom left hand image, I was really interested in kind It didn't quite make sense, there was I think it kind of gave me the option for that I could work into it. And these sort of developed So the top and bottom left hand panels, it' be exactly the kind of thing I'd be looking for that sort of interesting sweep and just feeling like there's some kind of it's a bit top-heavy, And then, just adding and subtracting material And really listening to the work as well, listening to what the composition I kind of figured that if something that's the composition telling you. it will also tell you when something does work. So I'd really listen to the way The top and bottom right hand panels... I was running out of hard drive space and before I deleted them I would just composite them together in and then just export the So it was pretty gnarly, But there were little gems of compositional chance And that actually led to the bottom an animation I called And that was essentially based on the So kind of finding these little details, it started to become quite important to me. So this is an example of that, where the and it was small. I remember in the composition, But I was really interested in it. Francis Bacon sand dune paintings, And again, it's a bit of an awkward composition, So I then would decide to start to build, with different video materials. And a couple The first one would be... the panel on the right's probably got so I would have 6 layers of video in There would be one point where the whole composition Depending on where I placed that in the timeline, in time, but I could also work back in time. So I was finding ways of moving away from I was allowing myself a point to build up to, And that was the first time, I'd really freed my... or adopted some kind of Because the different video clips they would end at different points. And as they ended, they would and suggesting new compositional combinations, So that was really an important part in the And this panel on the right is from a piece which I'll be showing. And that's where So, it was literally building on the detail There was a point when I'd been using and I was really starting to feel and I could predict, if I was out with a I kind of know what I was going to do with the I didn't really like it being that predictable. I'm like 'Yeah, I'll mask this out, And I thought that I was being but actually it was the algorithm, that was suggesting how to work with it. But I wanted to try and break away from that. And I'd seen on Tumblr that a guy in North Carolina, was making these hacked video units They're like 1980's video units. And he was hacking it by just connecting It's just like this chaos machine, And after the predictability of After Effects, troublesome toddler of a machine, unpredictable, completely chaotic. And I just spent hours and hours with it. And any adjustment of any of the knobs whatever signal you'd created, Even, actually, just moving I guess, for me, it was like the first time in analogue material, So I'd have this unit, and I would have it set up, connected to I have a camera on a tripod, and whenever I would record it straight from the TV screen. And sometimes I would set it up, I would get I'd turn to the camera to switch it on, changed the pattern on the TV. And I thought, this is really It almost had its own mind, I spent so long working with it and the kind of results you would get I became really interested in mark-making. I didn't feed any signal into the I slowly started to introduce basic shapes, But I was really interested in that And again, probably mirrored some I was listening to Alva Noto, so lot of really rich, And then I would start generating which was really a useful part of trying to find I would spend some time gathering material. I would have folders and folders of material when I was actually composing an animation, so I didn't have that thing where I had to stop to make something in order I really didn't want to do that, I would maybe go back to what and I'm not quite sure what Whatever was going on 3 days ago So I really just wanted to flow again, much like kind of painting. So having a library of material was really useful, and it's really something I picked up we just had lots and lots material but it was all on CD ROM at the time. And then,v these are the kind of animations really very much still influenced some kind of infrastructure, There was a play, and really I was sort of obsessed with the fact that but I really wanted to try to So I was trying to build depth into the using particular colours in other areas, and trying to draw the eye I worked with kind of cubes I was really so interested in just trying to make it seem as 3D And these are paintings from when They kind of reminded me of that last I tried to refine the process of I bought a module from the they produce some really interesting analogue I only had the Visual Cortex for about a year, and then I added 2 waveform generators to that. And again, you could feed a signal in, I was just interested in You could colour grade left and right channels, you could mix between L and R channels, there was some shape ramps and interestingly, so you could alternate a strobe And really interesting things happened when I was really fascinated with that. I was really aware of the structuralist I kind of admired them for the way It's sort of the framework for creating work, and that's what I was really interested in. So they were using the material and the and then, this is the work, But then, when I started working I realised that what they were doing And strobe was such a sort I found that lower frequencies higher frequencies can make I found some frequency that I've never repeated. I kind of felt my consciousness leave the back and then I had to look away it was kind of fascinating So you do have to be careful with strobe. And there will be flickering videos in my showreel, But again, I spent months and months There were things that would happen, like strobing 2 colours together And quite often, it'd be difficult so I presumed it was or it was something that was I remember seeing... if you got the right colour temperature these kind of meshes of branch-like And again, really difficult to capture digitally. So I thought, maybe that's just or something that's So much like the Fun21 unit, I was really happy that I was getting a slightly and just started making folders and enjoying the physicality of it. And by this point, I had kind of 2 parts I may do that 2 or 3 weeks, I was certainly something I was excited about. I would then take that material So this is the kind of result Again trying to work with depth, Again this weird obsession with the cube... And so the benefits of analogue mark-making, seemed like a really great combination. There was like a particular depth to analogue whereas with the... I know I was looking at Alba (Corral)'s and what she was doing with coding But at the time I was finding, when I I was just getting to the pixel very very quickly. And it seemed like there wasn't anything So I was really happy with the potential which just seemed far more wide ranging. And there was a particular depth to I was starting to add tile patterns I think the idea was that I was going to So I would start making, creating space and maybe, create a three-dimensional rather than it being created on the screen. So I was looking at a lot of Islamic tile patterns, I was really interested in the sort of intricacy, But there seem to be this kind of And of course, when you see they're almost overpowering and very So I was using these basic, Just some influences quite quickly. Mughal Art, I really really loved and I think I recognised what they the exaggerated angles... the use of patterns to push there was exaggerated scale, of dealing with perspective And they probably had access to I read somewhere that they rejected it because was more important than perspective realism, This painting by David Jones who was his fiance at the time. This blew me away when I first saw it I only have 2 painting references in my studio And it was to do with the background He seemed to spend way more attention the floral pattern in the background space which I thought was interesting and And when you get down to the bottom right it just becomes this sort of soup The way that it's so messy And you can't quite make out what was where the arm is exactly... and it really gave me the idea of making work it didn't have as much density, And there was something about that And it was just like a little door It's happened a few times, it's like this 'Oh, OK, that's the way to do something'. And then, 'The Fabric of the Cosmos' by Brian Greene. I'm really interested in physics and cosmology, And 'The Fabric of the Cosmos' was like this to the smallest objects in the future, And it introduced me to Entropy, because I used it as a way of hanging So that is just a kind of chaos becoming order, And I used that a lot, because I really so I've always quite struggled with that. It reintroduced me to Islamic tiles actually, not because of the pattern, but because of They're infinitely repeatable, because it means that they can use it as If it's infinitely repeatable, it means that And there's a physicist called Roger Penrose, and of his sketchbooks are amazing, yuou can see And they're beautiful, And it introduced me to Superposition, or with any rotational direction until So I was really intrigued with these bits of information and then, they form And I think this fed into this less dense aesthetic that I was thinking about. And it reminded me of how we That we kind of perceive information that come from the sound, your feet on the ground, So I started to look at strobe again using the strobe effect in After Effects. I was aware of it, but I hadn't really looked at it. And of course, because it's digital, that you can make an image visible It could be 5 frames or 10 frames or 7 frames. And then transparent for 10 frames or 5 frames. So you can be really precise about And then, if you're working in After Effects that have all got a strobe effect applied to them, that means that when the top layer is invisible, when the second layer is invisible, So in this way, you can create a And then, if you place the constituent parts of you can start building an image made up of So I noticed in that example, which is just masking out and using the negative space, It meant I was kind of inside the work a little bit, and I was really working into it like So I was always happy when I saw the potential in what I was hoping was underneath, So I've continued working around and using different tools. I think I was overusing it, And I use it sparingly now. So this, for example, is a piece of work I haven't really developed it, which is really trying to illustrate around 'implicit and explicit order'. The explicit order is the things tables and chairs and and bottles and skin... And then, the implicit order is that undoubtedly exists, but we don't see. And I was playing around with the strobe and I had this material. I've been and I couldn't really find a home for them. and they kind of worked within the nature, they started to distort the nature So it's just a simple strobe, and then, on top of another pattern. Like within nature, And finding these really interesting points, And I'm really interested in this sort of back and And I moved into ideas around non-dualism, which is this sort of idea that I was interested in this where actually, it's not an empty space at all. It's quite seething, kind of energetic So non-dualism says, it's all the same seething massive information So by this point, I'm kind of setting myself 'How do I illustrate that? And it's taken me a really long time, but then and working with glass simulations, you can apply a glass simulation to an object. If you place another pattern or an object behind it, So there's like a relationship between the 2 which is as close as I've got to describing it. Of course, if you go too far then they both merge and you lose the object, This is a really basic 3D model And then, the glass simulation is slightly I was working with this as well recently, it's kind of representative It's like that interesting line of When does something become So there's a constant back and forward This is another kind of refraction study. I do work quite a lot with the figure more recently. This is a head study, but in interestingly It's kind of a head study and then, It becomes abstract. And really playing around with Time as well. I'm really not making 3 or 4 The animations are just as long I was telling Noel about this last night. I think last time I put something online, That's exactly how long it needed to be. So I'm really not trying to tie myself to the otherwise I can't put any work into a festival. I'm just allowing the work to be It kind of reinvigorated a So pure analogue signal. So this is an analogue waveform and then I applied an equivalent And I'm really interested in fleshing these out, that I didn't really know what to do with. I'm looking at them like sculptures, I think. And I'm thinking about them on a large scale all interacting with each other in terms of So that's s what I've been doing just recently, And that is the conclusion of my talk.