Sometimes things are big and sometimes...things truly one of the things with size. And in that constant. The ball is one of the classic shapes, Roll snowball down a hill, it becomes Squeeze some water out into space, it Throw a bunch of rocks into empty space by even the weakest gravitational pull and, they'll turn into a ball. sooner or later. We humans do not exist we are insignificant, simply stalling till and we too will become part of this little blue to enjoy the cosmic force of the BALL, we must But golly, what size should we even MAKE em!? Hi I'm Jett Kuso, and get ready for a friggin, sir, don't worry about that, just a normal Bakugan And hey, if you find yourself having please support me with a channel shoutouts, exclusive videos, and access The BIGGEST things that you could call a Dragonoid monster truck, which is pretty bought the toy license for Monster Jam I met him at a Walmart and gave him a smooch. but unfortunately he is not a ball, Spin Master's LA headquarters has, or HAD, Dragonoid that they used to generate HYPE this doesn't count, for similar reasons at Bakucon in 2009. They're kinda ball but they're furniture, and if it's Next down is the BakuSphere, the most inconvenient it can fit 8 Bakugan and some cards, I'm gonna need a lotta Bakuspheres... Yes, trying to open it makes me feel like Ultra If you really want more space, you can remove the but Bakugan are MAGNETIC and they will OPEN. And OPEN the tin, they'll all spill ou-- ouwwoh, oh no, It's like when you pay in cash and the cashier and you have to try to shove the whole thing in later and the coins go everywhere.......uh, anyway, Next down, a late-stage BakuTech product and a 'deka'. Though we'll talk about Dekas later, This is DraThron, the Japanese attempt to make a Dragonoid Destroyer. And while these two products toys at all, DraThron is almost MORE Bakuganny it onto a gate card like standard, for a standard the anime he was literally used in the game ever allowed in tournaments. I don't know what was Close him back up and flip out another function. Appealing to Bakutech's DraThron features a target gem right here. Impact with two more targets on either side. Hit then roll your Bakugan onto the ramp and POW! A with wings expanded. What a stroke of brilliance, but a skill challenge to test your Without contest, this is a true Bakugan, DraThron's DNA comes from Deka Bakugan, but there's something in the middle Gen 1! year 3! Gundalian Invaders! This might a way that evokes a Bakugan, but don't worry, a BakuMoRpH is MOSTLY an action figure, trying the main guardians of season 3. And in that acting as both a lousy Bakugan and a rather much better, and it's really quite silly from IS anime accurate. That's one of the beauties represent the full monster forms, but a normal for the demographic that would actually want that. action figure without letting go of the magnetized the greatest examples of how Bakugan really only Only ever so slightly smaller honestly one of the weirder facets of Gen 3... Literally you just take a normal Most aren't the EXACT same sculpts as their filled in or hollowed out, but in every way that standard Bakugan. They had em in Gen 1, though like Preyas' attribute change wheel, were removed. and only appeared in Bakutech as Dratrhon, consistent sometimes food, and now AGAIN in Gen 3, small guys. And though sizes have often varied dekas have always had the exact same scale. Can On rare occasions, Gen 1 released Deka no text effects and certainly not enough to Conversely, the gameplay trappings for Gen 2's These oversized character cards, that came with any of the actual Deka Bakugan they put Ultra Dekas would be wild, I think you'd have There's also the fact that the jumbo Bakucores art on them, rather than the stat bonuses of but that didn't stop us from getting a play a full TCG game using Deka Bakugan and Unfortunately the magnets on them aren't QUITE so they don't tend to work too well when you They don't even work that As a product, I'm perplexed by dekas and the fact well? Do kids love them enough to buy one of these I can't say. I don't know. I have isn't known. The truth will always allude Another step down we have theeeese...beauties... button where the magnet should McDonalds put out Bakugan happy In the first wave of these, the Delta Dragonoid, different attribute colors each, lending a cards that could be used in the actual game, I'm sure there were many confused children cards alongside the pushbutton toys, Somehow across all three years, all three waves been JUST close enough to being actual Bakugan away or donate them how I might a typical happy lot or a box at goodwill that doesn't have at like the single French fry in your onion Bee threes. Perhaps the most prolific of all Bakugan official. It technically refers to something but it follows the pattern from the b1's way to refer to any 36 mm sized Bakugan. The a sub-line of disc shooting Bakugan After that was the Sabu Roku line of BakuTech, which they DID! That's how we get That size was eventually continued in Planet. The early Battle Planet Ultras made creating complex bakugan never seen before or today for Gen 3, albeit the designs are as more impressive if they were a bit smaller. big enough for some decent complexity, just small As the primary scale for gen 1 and Bakutech, these little orbs. But a lot of the new stuff apart from the combining gimmick just...truly something special. Not for Only around for a brief couple years at the no larger than a standard shooter marble. but they were so CUTE and tiny You can fit a whole collection into your They do BREAK really easy, and time has not been but nothing beats a B1 Fear Ripper. Something well, a surprisingly cool monster more than you'd expect from a such a compact making use of every curve, every angle, Technically there is something smaller than b1's, late gen 2. And I DO like em! I like em for unable to open on their own, they fail to There was even a brand called 'Worlds specializing in creating little tiny versions changed their name to 'World's Coolest' and just keychains, in the normal 36mm size. can reasonably get smaller than b1's, not without they moved to the b2 size in the first place. If down where it really shouldn't... well, regardless, em. Of everything in my Bakugan collection, And looking at my B1's, and how I think about that idea I talked about is so large and vast that it cannot possibly care are so small. A lot of people feel this, when the universe is. That's natural. The fear of the bigger than you can kill you. We're right to Setting aside the concept of God or some assuming the universe truly is impartial size is what makes something matter? The whole concept of bigger means better to go from smallest to biggest, but in trying to doesn't make the bakugan better. The smaller, Why is it that size denotes significance? Why not and quantity of information passing from mind to in the middle between the Planck Length and the important? If the universe is impartial and And this: Size, sure, but why should Why should it matter more than us, As far as we factually know, we're a concept of significance at that's not optimistic nihilism. Nothing Some people make an arbitrary decision in turning the universe itself into a god better than realizing it's US who don't I get to live in a universe where I am the perfect and talk to my silly little friends. To me, that's This is Jett Kuso, and I'll see you next time.