This used to be a barren land. Without hope. Without helmets. Yet, there was a time when the helm to get their hands on. n item of rarity. Scarce like the knowledge For months, they struggled; sought the helmet like hunters in the night. Hundreds of them, all working together like But this was in the ancient days of 2016. It started in a small house in the barren we call England, deep in the town of Cambridge. A man by the name of Mod Mat K reading a book entitled 'Mayan Prophecies'. In it, the book speaks of the Tomb of Palanque where one would solve a series of clues to Inspiration strikes. For three weeks, he plans. He conspires. He orchestrates a devilishly fiendish puzzle, the likes of which Old School has never seen A hunt which would forever be etched into A hunt whose name would send shivers down On the 17th of June 2016 Mod Ronan made a post to the Runescape forums clue'. Inside, he posts a map similar to the ones you find in clue scrolls explaining that this would be the first of Together, they would form a fifth, extremely The reward for these five clues would be a one piece for each individual clue. However, finding the last piece was always Jagex anticipated that solving it would be and intended to have the first person to find commemorated forever in the item's description. The community bands together, but for the uneventful. The maps are relatively straightforward, so out the spots to dig at. Although, while everyone is waiting for the already ingame. Mod Mat K confirmed on the second week that, could dig in all 5 spaces to receive the set He also makes an ominous comment about "yellow the soul". Kinda weird. I'm sure it's nothing. And on 6th of July 2016, the fourth and final Once again, pretty trivial, so all that was it a day. Alright, let's look at these four maps. What are your first thoughts? Well, given how easy the others had been so fifth item would just be in the middle of Draw an X between them, find it on the map, Nothing. Well, Mat K did say that this last one wouldn't But it's not going to be that hard either... Well, when everyone's individual guesses Players congregated on Reddit to toss ideas tried that had failed. And, sure enough, there were some quick developments! Turns out, if you overlap all the maps on the edges, it shapes the letters "TENNFIVEW" Ten north, five west? That'd make sense. But... from where? In the summer of youth where everyone thought were still some splinter groups. Small groups of friends who didn't want they were going to be the ones to solve the One by one, these groups failed, and many to the collective. On 7th of July, one such group of friends - making a thread that crossed off several list. Encouraging people to keep trying, they invite help search ingame. Several hundred comments later, and people When empirical truths dry up, people start down. Anyone can figure this out, right? So that means we can cross off any areas locked If we're right, then we need to dig somewhere Lots of players get to digging, but this area And, heck, maybe it IS in a quest area. Grah. Now we're getting nowhere. With discussion scattered, and the dank memers clue fest getting posted nonstop, 8th of July - /r/cracktheclue. Here, notes can be passed more easily, with to dig for them in the comments of a single Although, maybe confining all the clue-obsessed the best idea, because some of the resulting Okay. Look at the outfit so far. It's clearly based on Game of Thrones. Heck, so are the examine texts. So... what areas in RuneScape are like Game White Wolf Mountain, Ice Mountain, Wintertodt... Well, if all you think about in Game of Thrones make sense. Actually, if we're going north of the wall... What about the Wilderness? Put a pin in that one, for now. So, the final item is called the Helm of Raedwald. Data miners found it, you can't hide anything Helm, it seems. The image of it is based on the design of A king's helmet. A king who was laid to rest in a burial mound People try digging on every ship they can Don't ask me how digging works on a ship. And alongside that, every single mound and Barrows? Checked, nothing. Church graveyards? Pretty sacreligious, still nothing. Little Timmy's pet hamster who we buried Sorry kiddo, gotta make sure there's no And with every corpse in the game dug up, Okay, we're missing something. Don't forget TENNFIVEW. Let's try each solution again, but dig ten we last tried- no? Still nothing? Darn. Maybe ten north, five west is a red herring. Mat K might be a trickster like that. What's a less obvious possibility? Tai Bwo Wannai Village. The tenth letter of that is an N, and the town, but alas, no helmet is found in the Wait! "Highwayman" also fits the criteria. What if we dig on the tiles they spawn? A tile they're standing on? Maybe we need to kill them... Several hundred dead highwaymen later, there's As you can probably tell, the players are And the mods are loving it. Mod Kieren tweets about how Mat K is the only This is taken to be a clue, for some reason, At some point, Kieren enters the Margins clan clue hunters along. Most importantly, he reveals that anyone can for good, this time - and that there's more It's hard to express just how infectious this stage. It was hard not to get involved - everyone Even big time streamers like Faux started in it. Kieren reiterated the clues he had given in to a much larger audience. Let's look at the maps again. There's something you probably noticed the the screen for not mentioning - these little map. I'm gonna call them "theta"s for short, If you overlap all the maps around the theta, of note. There were lots of theories about what you overly helpful or believable. If you've been paying attention at home, shows up here. The first hint, actually. Yellow lines are the sunshine in the darkness But... what do they mean? We're going to have to think harder about A few days later, Mat K confirms the clue if you knew the solution. Cheers Mat, very helpful. Players were quick to note that the lines map. While there hadn't been any valid connection people really thought they were onto something. Now, when you think of someone overcoming to mind? That's right - when things were looking up to the plate. Woox was on the case. Woox was convinced the lines were important. And, as a legendary content creator, he was were tuning in to watch try cracking the clue. On his stream, Mat K soft confirmed the importance were coincidental. Woox was quickly tiring of the limitations And so, he once more threw away the shackles of gaming to play through. Rather than tick manipulation or perfect playing state, Woox put his time into programming. On 31st of July, just 3 weeks after the final livestreaming the development of a program dots, align the circles on the clues, and on the world map. When the program was finished on 3rd of August, one possible solution. The yellow lines represented a small island wilderness. ...Were those Game of Thrones guys onto something? No, don't give them any credit, I'm just Now, while there were many who saw Woox as there were also many who wished to tear him Some people claimed they had found this days to date with the documents. Others poo-pooed the "solution", since was that there was no way to get onto it. If the helm was under the nature rune or something, can't be there according to Kieren's "anyone Well, Kieren once again stepped in - and confirmed That settles that. Woox had made a significant step towards the We were closer than ever. ...But what now? It had been a productive month. Lots of progress had been made, lots of hints decoded from the four maps. But it seemed like no-one knew what to do Days turned to weeks. Weeks turned to months. The buzz around the hunt... started to die The bustling hive of hype faded, and hundreds With no progress and no hints, most players Like grinding skills for tens of hours via Lots of people started to forget about the A few content creators, like Woox and Faux, to solve it, causing minor spikes in activity if all their leads were dead. Some dedicated players never stopped searching no intention of giving up, and continued trying to uncover more secrets. They tried every spot again, now with various hoping to strike gold. Alas, they didn't. When they failed to make progress themselves, for more hints, hoping they'll just get But it wasn't until November that they got it was only a bolder confirmation of what can solve it", he confirmed that a new account knew what to do. That vastly restricted the map of possible areas were definitely a no-go; but there were be buried. A week later, discussion thrived when Woox sending his followers into a joyous frenzy. Unfortunately, this didn't actually lead up a dead end. The clue hunters may have been a fraction those that remained were determined to see As December rolled around, and the hunt neared the tiny Subreddit of the day due to its small As the holiday period hit, and Mat K was no work, the relentless begging on Twitter still to drop a small "hint". Whether that's due to him feeling charitable people off his back for a little while, is In a Twitter reply, Mat K stated that the found. Not sure that one helps out that much. Just a few weeks later, on 15th of January the answer lies near the lighthouse. Then, a few days later, another hint about And another week later, a hint about the desert. Progress, but I'm still not seeing how this And neither did the players. Soon after, this was followed up by Mod Archie When asked about Crack the Clue on a livestream, taking a suspicious sip of his water - before The new hints sparked another surge of activity month, no actual progress was made. A few weeks later, Mod Ronan, aware of the had found it yet. Woox, who clearly hadn't given up yet, came mace... [Woox: But then the special thing about this So I'm standing right about here. If you go ten north... and five west... You get exactly to this bronze mace spawn. And I thought that was very interesting.] Four days later, Mat K made a comment on the entirely different about a bronze axe - which towards Woox's findings. Was it a hint? A soft confirmation? Something else? At this point, the community was desperate. They were starting to feel cheated. Like the JMods were taunting them. Which hints were real? Which were fake? Many clue hunters started ignoring the JMods But with the new year in full swing, the lack really be felt in the community. All sorts of players had individually poured it felt like the devs were just laughing at The clue hunting community had been dedicated But now, they were getting angry. Huh? Hey guys! I found something! Alright, let's take a look. Huh? It's someone's internet history. Oh shit, is that Shankkyy's?!? Wait, don't look at that! Woah, dude, you're into that? God, I'm never looking you in the eye again. Just ignore them... Keep looking for the helm... Hello! [yelp] Sounds like someone should have used NordVPN. Nord... VPN? That's right! Just using incognito mode isn't enough to from snooping on what you're looking at. NordVPN blocks unauthorized connections, so you look at in your spare time. Hey, look at this onlyfans he's subscribed Hey, Wolfs Hollow, she kinda looks like your Haha, yeah. ...Wait, I think that is my mom. Nord also doesn't keep logs, so even we When did you get out of that hole? Not only that, NordVPN also allows you to clicks. Want to see what crazy stuff they have over I do like those Japanese cartoons... And that's not all. Why don't you try digging a few spots to Is the helm there? Even better! Wow! It's the NordVPN cyber month deal - with 1 additional month on a huge discount! That's right! Make sure not to miss it, with Will Miss It. See you around, Kenneth! My name's Shankkyy Over at Jagex headquarters, several members the solution to Mat K's puzzle is. While many knew the steps to obtain the helmet, clues to come to that solution. In a sense, even those who knew the answer solve it. The staff had started to feel guilty over A few of them felt bad over the fake hints Some staff began to plead with Mat K to release stood his ground. From the start, he had intended the hunt to To prevent leaks, he made sure that no other the puzzle; it's hard to give hints on how how to do it, either. Even the code in the system came with a large do not share with the players." But while Mat K was happy with the state of cold feet. On 30th of March 2017, Mod Kieren commented claiming that the hunters had been making Mod Stone said that a lot of the hunters were stated that every part of the clue had been correctly now. Mat K also commented in Faux 's livestream the hunt with ease. Well, yeah, of course they could. You just had to dig in the correct spot, right? The team continued to rile up the players dug in the wrong spot while doing a regular message saying &quot;Congratulations, you have a "jk :P". The tormented hunters definitely found this So, it's not much of a surprise that, just the banter, On 4th of May 2017, the team made fun of the his fake water hint due to the number of players [Archie: One of my personal livestreams, like... I don't know, maybe a month or two ago. They were spamming 'Crack the clue' and Okay, I'll give you a hint. And I just took a sip of my water and then I wasn't actually giving a hint. And like, a lot of people took it seriously, Sorry for wasting your time.] Mod Mat K even revealed that the entire hunt School mystery a discussion topic that spread [Mat K: The whole point about Crack the clue It was designed typically difficult, so we 24 months time where we could say look - this No one solved it, and we can make a bit more interested in the game.] The comments helped appease the players who In fact, it actually started to reinvigorate fast approaching, the timeframe that Mat K were hopeful of a breakthrough on the horizon. And sure enough, Mat K confirmed a hint would had been released. [Mod Archie: We got an update on Crack the The update is that the hint will be given [Mod Tomh: Yeah I mean, having seen the solution, because you're all just gonna kick yourselves [Mod Archie: Do you think... Somebody will end up solving it? And if so... when? Mod Mat K: I would like to see it solved by [Reactions from the other J-Mods] I think way... with this extra information you'll Somebody could solve it very quickly. [...] The thing about this is that every part So you got all the answers already; what you're [...] So the clue I'm going to give you specific items and dig in a specific location, Three specific items, and a spot to dig. Go. The next hours saw some of the highest amounts had first been released. Players scattered all across the game world, Many players actually tried digging at the they were none the wiser. One player watching the anniversary stream - just your average Old School player who, with the hunt at all. When it first released, he had tried digging hint about Raedwald referencing a real life like him. But, obviously, this had been to no avail, But, with Mat K's new hint... Maybe it was time to give the clue another One of the reasons so many players were feeling much of the groundwork had been laid out for Woox finding the nature rune island with the of the items you needed was a nature rune. But what about the other 2? Well, no other items had been hard confirmed But the clues had to be on the maps; Mat K and nothing was coincidental. So what else can we find here? What about the theta lines? Two circles on the top right, two circles What could that mean? Pikachu Yip proceeded to place the circles of their respective dig spots, dragging the separate locations in the game. Maybe the two missing items would be found But the problem with this is that, given the on the overlap could take you into a completely Heck, maybe even several chunks. So Pikachu Yip didn't just pick up the few up everything he could find that was even One of these lines took him to Al Kharid - we'd likely a hit. He picked up a pair of leather boots, amongst The other took him near the Observatory. Maybe the "lighthouse" didn't mean an to see the stars? Not many items spawn there, but there is a found near a dungeon entrance. He picked that up, alongside anything else So, we've probably... eh, hopefully, got But where do we actually dig? Well, it turns out, the clue hunters might in July 2016. What if you overlapped all the X's of the them? The idea had been abandoned at the time when no one knew about the required items at the Maybe the overlapped X's would be too simple on the map was unintended, and the JMods had you knew it... So, Pikachu Yip combined the X's, and found his back to the nearby Clock Tower. This was starting to look promising. He tried digging, and... Nothing. How anticlimactic. Well, he had swooped in at the eleventh hour, solve it after a year of failed attempts from Maybe it was time to- Wait. Hang on. What about TENNFIVEW? ...It couldn't be that simple, right? So, Pikachu Yip walked ten spaces north. Five spaces west. And, dig... Nothing. Hm. Maybe it was time to go back to the drawing The intersecting theta lines were an inspired Maybe he really had been several chunks off, Or maybe it was the X's? Well, if you're here anyway, might as well You never know what you might find buri- What the..? A year of hints. A year of red herrings. A year of hundreds of players pouring their hours. And in just two days, Pikachu Yip had unearthed for. Even he wasn't sure what the exact solution inventory; but that didn't matter. For the first time in Old School history, He had cracked the clue. Immediately after finding it, he wasted no that he had found it - only to be immediately clue hunters. He also went into B0aty's livestream to Well, since no one was believing him by his Pikachu Yip made a YouTube video announcing the following day on July 18th. He also followed up with a Reddit post saying not going to reveal the solution. The comments started rolling in. The Old School team were quick to debunk any it wasn't photoshopped, it wasn't filmed But the community of clue hunters were anything Disappointed and in disbelief, many people it first. I mean, he'd basically cheated! He'd brute forced the solution by bringing exactly. Yeah! He didn't even get the dig spot right, he What a fake solution! Hell, he was only riding off the coattails He'd never have found it without everything How dare he leech off the hard work they'd And now he's disrespecting the long-time I tell ya, what a guy! Others claimed that him withholding the solution for his Twitch channel. He even turned down offers of up to a billion to buy the solution from him. Guess he really wants those followers, huh? Although, to say it was all hate would be Many players who had sunk their lives into stages of grief, for sure. But between the salt and anger, many players to put it all together, and also for keeping Over at Jagex headquarters, Mod Mat K is extremely have done more harm than good if it went on Pikachu Yip stayed true to his intentions Honestly, he just wanted to spend some time rare item, before everyone knew how to get But the pressure to reveal was high. Striking a middle ground, he spent the next occasionally revealing hints over time to And on 20th of July 2017, Ticataca2 became clues with the official ones, and became the And from there, the floodgates opened. Overlap the thetas and use the yellow lines Intersect the theta lines to find the super boots in Al Kharid. Overlap the X's to find yourself at the And overlap the maps and align the boxes to and you've got your helmet. Everyone in the community knew that, now. Or just the solution, at least - only the logic of how to solve it, and over time, that "bring these items and dig here" you see Crack the Clue had fostered a strong community In the months following its conclusion, several as a way to entertain each other and keep In 2019, Jagex announced a second Crack the solved. Once more, the clue hunting community spiked Pikachu Yip leading the charge into new territory. However, with everyone now better prepared the Clue 2's final clue was solved in just than the year it had taken for Crack the Clue Creators like B0aty wanted a repeat where it was all over Reddit within minutes. A third version of the event was designed developer, as Mat K left the company in May Crack the Clue 3 was intended to be more tied receive super rare drops, but this was eventually Mat K may no longer be with Jagex, but the understated. Despite all the frustration and tears, Crack one that was more positive than not. And who knows, maybe a true Crack the Clue Or maybe there's one in-game now, and we Yet. Thank you all so much for watching. I really hope you enjoyed this look through its run. It was definitely a wild ride, and I can't even though I wasn't personally involved When interviewing sources for this video, energetic they all were when talking about It really shows that, despite the rollercoaster given a lot of people some really good memories. Until next time, my name is Will Miss It,