Good morning, I want to show you a plugin that we used in the studio that accelerated our development 1000%, in the studio there are four of us and we all work with the same blocks, materials, everything. There is a very good tutorial by Adam Martin that I copied here, which lasts an hour and explains better how to use this, but I am going to make a small summary myself. Come on... this is Project Manager, which is spectacular. Here I opened it and I'm going to show you a little bit what it does. On the one hand, you can have textures, IES materials and models, the truth is that we don't use textures at all at IES. , we also do not use the models and materials part. What does it do to you, for example, here in the studio we have models of everything, not what we are making and what we are downloading, what we are buying, and we are organizing it here and we all use the same ones almost always and when someone makes a new model or material new one, keep it here and we use it. For example, in the environments that we use the most, we have environments cataloged by country, for example the environment of Canada with this bicycle stop and it is very useful, you have it here, you throw it here in the scene and it should be thrown to you perfectly. It also has a function that is very good to avoid making a Proxy every time you throw things away, which is merge as Proxy, and for example if I throw this back here it will directly create the Proxy, as you see it here, and it will save it. here too, which saves it for you only once. Sometimes before we made proxies for everything, and we had folders of proxies, they still exist and they are very heavy and then we delete them, well... a fiaca, this is actually much better, and well here you can organize your libraries for everything and Another thing we use it for is materials. Materials that now, well, he doesn't read them to me, I don't know why, I do a refresh, There it goes...they are the materials that almost all of us use in the studio and the ones that we are creating, there are also old ones, we are erasing, we are making new ones, there is no concrete left, for example. It is what we use the most, we have a whole list here that is of different types of concrete, and it is very useful because each one for example... let's see... goha a box here I touch this concrete that I want as plates and I apply it and bye and there is the material, I'm going to show it to you, so you can see what works... eh, perfect plate concrete, it looks very nice and everything. Well... How to do all this how to organize it how... also how to make these balls here we did this to see how it works when two objects intersect but what the program also does is create your own... the photo itself You have to configure it as a scene, it's quite easy, as I said at the beginning, Adam Martin explains it in a spectacular hour, I'll leave you the link here to that video if you're interested and I'll show you what it does, for example... I have this file that I don't have it rendered and here I put this... it's going to open a scene, now, which is already configured with HDRI and it's going to render it and save it here the preview I'm going to advance this part it takes a minute but I'll advance it . Well, it didn't take long at all, here it is, it shows it to you, it opens it from another scene and I save it here, it's great, and here you have the preview ready to use. And since we're going to use it, I'm going to show another plugin that we use... well this is the super summary of this, if you are interested in the plugin, go to the link and see it, it lasts an hour. And I'm going to show you another pl that we use a lot that is to collect lost maps called: _Relink bitmaps, this is also gold, I don't know if it has ever happened to you? It will always happen that they throw a block and they don't find any map and they have to go look for each one, sometimes they are blocks that have millions of maps, for example here they tell me that there are two maps that luckily they can't find, and they What this does is look for the missing maps where you tell it that this is missing, I always check it, I put browse, I'm going to go here to look for this, I don't know if it's going to find it, I don't know if it exists, but well, here are the maps, polygon Select folder, and here you touch Re-link, well I don't know if it's there, I'll leave the link for this, this one of the two little programs, I'll leave them below to see if he found it there, he found it ready, when you have millions of lost maps here or it arrives a model from another studio and if we all use similar maps, they look for it on their server and everything is ready. Well, I hope this mini tutorial has been useful to you. bye