Earlier this year, Japan made history, it landed a spacecraft on joining the ranks of the USA, Russia, But JAXA's mission was much more than that. They it would be the equivalent of successfully shooting a skin cell from London to Cairo and In the run-up to the launch, it was this insane ambition of precision Once JAXA touched down, the Nicknamed "Moon Sniper" for its stealthy to demonstrate just how precise of a the tiny spacecraft was not meant to lunar night. And yet, somehow, it has this resilient craft kept waking up and sending Oh, and it's also upside down. I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. into the details of JAXA's first moon landing, lunar nights, and how such pinpoint landings -- The Smart Lander for Investigating Moon, also lightweight spacecraft about the size to analyse the composition of olivine miles south of the Sea of Tranquility, where This landing zone stands on ground ejected chance to study lunar rock without having JAXA hopes to learn more about the SLIM also carried two tiny lunar They were designed to deploy from SLIM and Beyond its scientific aims, SLIM in engineering and mission operations. It could execute accurate lunar landing study of the moon and other planets by using able to land in treacherous, rocky -- To understand why this is a big deal, it The first thing you have to know is that only Past lunar missions faced huge mainly constrained by technology and it took the Soviet Union a dozen attempts Similarly, NASA's Ranger series took The absence of an atmosphere on the Moon means descent, complicating the ability to adjust must touch down at near-zero speed to ensure no Every single Apollo mission landed dangerously caused serious damage, with very limited The Apollo missions also all landed on the and in almost perfect lighting conditions, downside of this though is that NASA was always meaning actual exploration of the surface If we could make a spacecraft capable of we could send it to explore whatever and wherever targeted studies of different rock and soil distances. This reduces mission complexity new lunar regions. Moon Sniper's mission the four lunar rovers built for Apollo 15, 16, which would be about $286 million dollars Chandrayaan-2 and Chang'e 4, cost about $141 And this is exactly what researchers are working also known as a landing ellipse, is the area on an astronomical body. Back in 1969, Apollo km. Fast forward to 2013, and China's Chang'e 3 In January 2024, a JAXA lander made Japan touching down just 55 metres from target ellipse - a target 8,325 Let's take a closer look at the -- Moon Sniper was able to land as precisely as system, which JAXA refers to as "smart of the moon's surface as it descends, the real-time on orbital maps made by data from India's Chandrayaan-2, and Japan's SELENE. broad map encompassing its location By processing the images in real-time, literally on the fly, enabling it to hit its 200 kg without propellant, a successful lightweight spacecraft can accomplish Except SLIM didn't exactly stick the landing. it sort of... toppled over at the last what caused this grave malfunction? -- On the 6th of September 2023, JAXA launched orbit on Christmas Day, 2023, and eventually As Japan watched on intently - the approach was the deceleration to landing as "expected to be As it made its final descent to the lunar nozzles mysteriously detached 50 metres above caused it to gain lateral motion, which with its smaller thrusters. The incredible anomaly in its descent and find a safe SLIM tipped over onto its nose, as seen in SLIM released before it touched down. on the surface of the moon, upside down. the sun instead of up towards it, as it was only a brief matter of time before the Soon after landing, SLIM sent back a its limited battery power. With JAXA decided to switch the craft off in hopes of Indeed, just 10 days later on January 29th, SLIM was able to power on using energy from the However, the elation was short-lived by the JAXA which would likely spell the end for Lunar nights are a challenge to all moon-bound and it isn't uncommon for lunar For example, the first US craft to make it to the to awaken following a lunar night. Much like SLIM, nose in early 2024. Despite going into hibernation Since the moon doesn't really have an its surface temperature. During a lunar day, can reach 121 degrees Celsius. During a lunar temperatures drop to averages That's quite the whiplash for our little lander. What's more, days and nights on the moon aren't like the 12 hour days and nights on a fortnight of searing heat followed by SLIM wasn't designed to withstand a lunar put it into a hibernation state for the next the hopeful crew decided they'd try to establish On February 26th, JAXA attempted with few expectations. Imagine their total shock Moon Sniper survived its first lunar night, It gets even better. After two weeks of data and JAXA set SLIM into hibernation once again. Surviving one lunar night is no small second one. But somehow, it did. On March communication from SLIM following its second when even more pictures were sent back from the -- SLIM has totally defied the odds, maintaining its cold which could destroy most electronics not Somehow, SLIM still managed to send back data images of the surrounding moon rocks will geology. In one image, SLIM took a close-up using a special Multi-Band Camera. Despite the between the different minerals that make up the Following the fourth lunar night, JAXA attempted SLIM. However, as of May 27th, they've been unable Sniper. Despite all its heroic efforts, it's -- Still, JAXA's first lunar touchdown travel. Demonstrating the feasibility of many other possibilities. One key area Pole-Aitken Basin, where the moon's mantle NASA is also planning a return to the moon in Pinpoint touchdowns like the one executed get to water-ice lying in permanently shadowed Moon Sniper stands as a testament we've achieved since the last lunar era public and private interest in revisiting Moon Sniper give us a glimpse into what the Thanks for watching! If you like this video, in this playlist. A big thanks to my patrons and added to the end of every Astrum video, check the thanks for watching I really want to give a it's really becoming a thriving community and comments over there if you'd like to description to become an astronaut and bring the you join you'll be able to watch the whole and submit questions to our team once again a team meanwhile click the for more astrom content I'll see you next time