Humans have long hoped to harness the full power of the mind. During the Cold War, the readers&quot; to help spy on the What if we don't have to hope anymore? Brain computer interface, a special type of AI technology known as BCI, shows tremendous things we've only previously imagined. But this all comes at a Are we willing to open How much can we trust that our minds will still be our own? The brain is not just it is the organ that makes us who we are. With neurotechnology, of human being we want to be. Everything comes out of the activity of neurons in your brain. And for the first time in history, we've developed technology that activity and change it. What you're seeing here of desire, but because by scientists manipulating that the brain can be That for me, was an Oppenheimer moment. Because I mean, on the one hand oh my God, we finally got into the brain. But of course, what you you can do in a human tomorrow. And that's when I started to be worried. So what are the most scary scenarios that we can imagine with neurotechnology? Mental privacy, decoding They could decode not but even worse. What your subconscious, what The second are identity. Someone could go and And this is something that history of humanity because Guess what? Now you can. The third area of concern This is not science fiction. We've turned the mouse into a puppet and make the mouse do The fourth area of concern that is fractured into Ones that are augmented mentally, and other ones that are The last nightmare scenario is to have people piping that is biased or discriminatory in a way that's sort of changing your belief systems. Some people may be afraid. We're developing technology what the brain does and to change it. The reason we're doing this Who doesn't have a that suffers from a brain schizophrenia, depression, anxiety? We know painfully well that because as doctors, we don't have the technology of these people and understand That means that we have at any cost as soon as we can. At Motif, we are building to help people who suffer that aren't being effectively It's like a brain stimulator Jacob interview, take Give us a sense of the scope of the problem you're trying to solve. How many people suffer from depression? We estimate it's about who are suffering from depression and have failed to respond to two or more drugs. For every person there are 10 people suffering from treatment resistant depression. It's just invisible. One of the things that we've begun to discover these are circuit level disorders, and in the case of depression, brain activity is predominantly The device that we're building and it stimulates that part of the executive function network that increases its activity. So it becomes strengthened. So now it pulls you out of that of those negative emotions, to do the things that How long does the procedure take? We estimate the procedure And you go home that day. That it's less invasive than It's less invasive than a nose job. Drugs don't activate networks. They activate neurons in your and it causes all kinds of side effects. If you look at people on of them fall off because of These are things that we to because this is a brain disorder. So how far off is this? We expect that we'll achieve years and a clinical trial What other mental illnesses We're looking at PTSD, we're looking at ADHD, Wow. What about Alzheimer's? I would not be surprised have electronic therapy that can prevent the cognitive decline associated with Alzheimer's. How is this different from Neuralink and what Elon Musk is trying to do? What other brain computer to do is get as much information as they can into and out of the brain. And that's important if you're trying to treat something like paralysis. But we're looking at a different problem. We're thinking about how can we restore the circuits in the brain. There are all kinds of and certainly curing incurable diseases is at the top of the list. But what if a brain implant Is that possible? I think the short answer making someone smarter? Maybe. to focus on demand? Absolutely. Wouldn't it be and then suddenly my So that's possible? Absolutely. That's coming. Absolutely. What are you most excited Mental illness can be measured and is going to be that we can measure the or any other kind of disease. We can measure it, we can When you think about that they have cancer, your I feel so sorry for you. And you tell them that, Let me help you. The exact opposite is what happens with mental illness. And you're judged, labeled You struggled with severe depression for a long part of your life. You hear about a possible solution, but it involves implanting a chip. Yep. Yep. Oh, I was the exact opposite. You know, that's one of the main things that I hear a lot is were you freaked out?&quot; Couldn't care less. You know, I was euphoric to die. And so the worst case scenario Like bring it on. Cause my unless I died by an accident, right? I didn't have suicidal coverage. So how is your implant different from what Motif is working on? So my implant is, you know, you know, eight hour procedure very in depth, very costly, right? This is a big endeavor. What Motif is doing is they've a technology the size of a pea And it's not a brain surgery, it's a minimally invasive procedure. They essentially drill which is an extremely normal They place the pea there, cover and that's gonna be able to provide the therapy for the patients. The greatest potential here health crisis that is out there. It's reducing costs for the It's making literally and millions and millions multiply that times a right? It gives them their life back. What would your wife say? What would, your kids say? They're blown away. You with my son, my middle guy. We were quiet in the and then he just said, you know, dad, I really appreciate you right? And so you get those moments. It's just life. Life is incredible. That's beautiful. Thank you for sharing that. Thank you. Most of us touch our phones We talk to loved ones and Imagine if an illness or accident meant you could Thanks to brain computer interfaces, There's now hope we could by using our brains - truly hands free. Hi, this is Rodney. We're now at a period in for the brain has shown but we've had trouble getting and scalable way. And so Synchron's vision was, how can we natural highways, the blood that can solve problems that haven't previously been solvable? So the stentrode is stent electrode. We took the concept It's a technology that's through a tiny little break in the skin to get into the blood vessels. The first application of of an implantable brain If we can detect activity in with the control of movement, then you could restore their ability to exert their free will, exert their volition in the This is Rodney. He has but with the help of to send me a text message What the technology is about of autonomy, of giving people And that has a huge impact on how you have relationships in your life. Good morning. How are you doing today? Right now, this to a select few, but it could To have the impact that we we have to solve problems Neurological disability of disability in the world. Huge patient need. But the problem traditionally in, in neurotechnology has been, if the technology requires it's been limited to very So what's different about what we're doing is to be successful, we have without open surgery. and help millions of people a year. There has not been a company yet that's achieved market for an implantable brain It's, it's a great big challenge and we've got some really that mean that we can get to a whole range of regions in the brain. We'll be rolling out a pipeline of, of products over the course I think the pipeline would be: neurotechnology shows up in the form of non-invasive wearable take off. For instance, five or six years ago, Meta acquired Control Labs, a company that makes neurotechnology So just by thinking about to file or shuffle through which we also know that So we're basically designing which is, I think one that, that we're doing. It's not reading your mind, but what it is doing is allowing with something the same way that your brain would hand. Apple filed a patent for an EEG So you could imagine controlling maybe checking your email and having your AI in your But you're doing that just by thinking. Brain computer interfaces, they really do present the possibility of creating super humans, allowing us to have senses Whether that's hearing things or seeing ultraviolet light I mean, right now you by watching a video on your phone. With a brain computer interface, you could actually go and and be in it. I think the goal of that we don't just use a brain of our body, but of That is the goal: to with superhuman capabilities. You are one of the many that emulates the brain and now you say their brains are better than ours in many ways, Their brains will because they can share different the same neural net can share information much more efficiently. So what's the next move? Putting AI devices in So Ray Kurzwell thinks hybrids of AI devices in our I'm not so convinced. I think than us, they just won't need us. Hmm. So we just won't have a chance? Well, but we are So we do have a chance, but we're gonna need to be very and I think we could easily And so just leaving it to private industry to maximize profits doesn't Isn't the genie out of the bottle? The genie is definitely But for the existential between governments on how you prevent this existential threat. What is openBCI? OpenBCI started as an open source brain Over time we've evolved from open source modules into integrated systems like Galea. Alright, let's fly. Alright. So what we're looking at now is four separate channels that are isolating four Basically my left my left cheek, and my right cheek. And what we've done is we've the four controls of the drone. Check it out. No hands. You flew a drone without a controller. That's really just the tip of the iceberg. We look at things like the the sweat on your skin. And we try to make inferences or decode your intention your emotions. Things fatigue, workload. If you can take a person's emotions and bake them into any application inside of a computer in real time, or games or stories where already, but rather the game that you're perceiving and interacting with the narrative, the game. What about telepathy? Will I literally be Will I be able to know what my partner is thinking To know what another person is thinking, I think it's up to the Like, like we shouldn't have mind without them giving us permission. If I gave you permission, right? Would you be able to read my mind? Eventually or soon at Like high level emotions. You know, are you stressed? Are you calm? You can already look at those metrics at, at a somewhat high level. The way computers are gonna change is that we will integrate the individual's mind or the individual's of what a computer is. When we do that, we'll actually be able to look at emotions on There are real concerns Oh yeah. and emotional states are stored online. They already are. Yeah. what if the government has and corporations? Yep. Well, this is the kind of sad reality is that we already have these kind on the internet inside of major technology companies. It's kind of sad how of our own emotions. And especially when you we have no access to it. I like to say that today we, we actually have an immense that we have to pay off with technology. We've extracted people's emotions. We've started to classify and now we're tailoring and and information and news and videos and content based on these It's probably the most problem to solve these days. How do we backtrack from ways that we built computers and, and most specifically, how we harvest and collect psychological How do we backtrack and how do we give that Is backtracking even Or are we hurdling towards giving up more and more of our minds to technology? And how much choice do we really have? If your phone was constantly would you give it up? Brain computer interfaces are between the brain and machines. Do you think this crosses Like are we giving up this last part of ourselves that makes us human? I don't think so actually. I think they're a kind of neat idea. I don't, I don't see that Would you put a chip in your enhance your neurological functions? If I knew it could enhance and it wouldn't have and there was a very high me. Yes, I would. As AI is influencing more and more of our decisions, are we willingly opening of mind control? Like could AI challenge what In order to answer what free will is. And most people think free will I think that's complete nonsense. Free will is doing it to to achieve somebody else's goals. So if AI is influencing and our decisions, are we making any autonomous decisions anymore? If I have a goal and I do something to to me I'm acting as my own free will. If other people are creating ways, then that does seem to be an intrusion on my individuality. Well, that's the fear, is to these devices, that tech companies and the government will have and then take advantage of them. Just like some people would If tech companies, the thoughts, do you think they Why would they not? If you could put a chip in your brain that would make you Okay. This feels like an like But yes, if it's gonna make me happier, but then it's like, what is, to fit everybody's Like I would it work with I guess I would need the logistics, but yes, you can't really Yeah, I think you need to Because I want to know what so I know what the problem is. If I have a chip in my then I'm not fixing the Would you wear a helmet make you smarter and double your salary? Geez, that's a lot of pressure, huh? I have to keep the helmet on all the time? Yeah, well you you get smarter and and the government have Hmm. I'm not hiding anything. So maybe. What if it would smarter and double your salary? Yes. I feel like I should say Cause I was such a C I'll take the help where Well that's changing the As long as it is not invasive in changing who I am as a person. What if it means tech companies and the government have access to your thoughts? Oh, right. No, no, no. Definitely not.