Hi everybody. Technological developments are transforming door systems and offering more functional, secure and aesthetic solutions. These doors are frequently preferred, especially in modern architecture and designs for special needs. In this video, we talk about sliding, folding, automatic doors and other hidden doors for modern homes. Klemens Torggler is the creative mind behind these unique door designs. More than just a passage point, Torggler's doors are unique designs that combine art and architecture, bringing functionality together with aesthetics. The Fancy Fence System is an innovative solution for architects and designers who aim to create spaces for the future. It is perfect for private homes, public utility areas, and the premises of public institutions. With the system it is possible to quickly secure areas around many important buildings that require special protection. It is also strikingly impressive and elegant. OzAutogate's ingenious design does not require electrical energy and uses the weight of the vehicle to open the gate. The controlled closing system automatically closes the gate after the vehicle has passed. This system is designed to provide safe and practical passage in farms, farm entrances, barns and other open areas. This incredible door has a different design and unlike other doors, it opens by rotating. This system is perfect for those who want to make a difference in their home. The Lifestyle Screens garage screen system contains a retractable roll-up passage door. Notice how easy it is to operate the screen door and how it stores away out of sight when its not in use. Lifestyle Screens garage screen system is also a green product. Because it does not use electricity or power and 90% of the materials used in its production are recyclable. Murphy Door is a type of door that can be fully integrated into the wall and hidden when not in use. In this way, it is possible to gain more space in small spaces and make the interiors look more organized. In this house, it is used as an entrance to a secret playroom. These hidden garage doors blend in seamlessly with the exterior cladding of the house. They also look like a normal wall when you drive past the house. At the push of a button, a fully functional Schweiss hydraulic door appears. This is a really unique and cool garage door. The Pivot Door System is a modern and aesthetic door solution that goes beyond traditional hinged doors. In this system, the door rotates around pivot points placed on the floor and ceiling. In this way, it provides a visually impressive appearance and is an ideal option for wide openings. Automatic ramp is a special system generally used in car parks. It is a completely automatic system that can be easily controlled by pressing a single button or by remote control. It usually works with hydraulic or pneumatic systems. It is used in transitions from underground car parks to the ground floor. The farm gate that opens with a small bump and then closes by itself. In this interesting design, all you have to do is approach the farm gate and hit it with your vehicle to open it. The gate will remain open until you pass through. These systems save more space than traditional hinged or sliding doors and offer a more modern look. They are automatic door systems that move vertically upwards and are usually used in garages or industrial areas. They are ideal for narrow spaces as they do not require space to open sideways. Quickly get something from the attic? No problem with this FAKRO loft ladder. The construction of the ladder is made up of hinges and stair springs, which ensures that the ladder opens or closes easily. For extra safety, there are two metal handles on the ladder. The MOVEO ComfortDrive system is widely used in buildings with multi-purpose areas. This system is used to divide large spaces into smaller, more private areas or, conversely, to create a large area. It can be easily opened and closed at the push of a button. Thanks to high-quality materials, it provides excellent sound insulation, thus preventing noise pollution in different areas.