The salty ones are black sesame seeds and the sweet ones are white sesame seeds. Stone-ground coarse grains and gold cakes are made with coarse grains and are sweet and delicious . Dear friends, hello everyone. I am everyone's good friend. The three brothers Tiger today took friends to visit the temple fair in Shaanxi Province. This place is Xi'an City. The temple fair of Huayang Temple in Yi District is quite grand. It is the largest blessing event in Huayangyu at the northern foot of Qinling Mountains every spring. Praying to the gods to bless the land of China with good weather and good harvests . In addition to these traditional activities, this place is also a place for food and supplies. Boss of the exchange conference, is this potato glutinous rice dumpling? Potato glutinous rice cake , potato glutinous rice cake. Oh, yes , potato glutinous rice cake . Isn't this the taste of sauerkraut stirred into dough ? Yes, it is the taste of sauerkraut. The well-made potato glutinous rice cake is usually paired with the stir-fried sauerkraut. The glutinous rice cake is soft and tender. Wrapped in sour soup and paired with oily spicy seeds and salty leeks , these are potatoes. They seem to be ordinary food , but they are the favorite delicacies of the people at the foot of the Qinling Mountains. Singing is the most solemn event of the temple fair. This is also the main reason why local people like this temple fair . The rough and unique singing of Qin Opera and the interpretation of historical stories vividly express the roughness and boldness of the northwest people. The boss is selling buckwheat glutinous rice. Is this the buckwheat glutinous rice dumpling from Lantian? How to sell it? 5 Yuan Yijin Authentic Lantian Buckwheat Noodles If you pass by, don't miss it. 80% of the authentic Lantian Buckwheat Noodles are buckwheat noodles. Buckwheat noodles have a high status in Shaanxi cuisine. Buckwheat is a crop mainly grown on the Loess Plateau . China is known as the king of grains. It is low in sugar and high in protein and has very rich nutritional value . Buckwheat noodles are the most common way to eat in Shaanxi. Making buckwheat noodles into this kind of noodles and then pairing it with mutton soybean soup makes it delicious and healthy. These are the process After squeezing and drying, you can take the dried buckwheat noodles home. You just need to brew them with boiling water and mix them with soup and side dishes. It is very convenient . The boss needs to boil the dry noodles when he takes them back, right? Just soak them in boiling water. I ate dry noodles. How much does it cost per pound? 8 pieces of dried noodles per pound. 8 yuan for fresh soft noodles. 5 yuan for a pound of big meat, spicy pimples. Brother, boss , can I take a picture of this? Is it pure? This kind of delicacy is not mutton steamed buns. It is a snack unique to Hu County, Shaanxi Province. It is called big meat and spicy dumplings. The broth made from pork bones is poured on the white flour steamed buns , and then braised and braised pork cubes are placed on it . A bowl of fragrant big meat and spicy dumplings is presented to us. The meat in front of me is fragrant and not spicy. I keep rushing . I always rush to meet the customers . I usually go to the store and I can refill the soup. Yes, I can refill the soup. These are regular customers who come here to refill the soup. The old shopkeeper's old shopkeeper. 20 I sat inside , strolled around the temple fair , listened to the Qin Opera, and then had a bowl of meaty spicy dumplings. The day was very complete. This one also sells jelly. This portion is 10 yuan. It's enough to measure. What kind of soup base is prepared on the side? It's okay to mix it with sheep's blood and sheep's blood. Can this jelly cost 10 yuan per serving? Xi'an Liangpi is a snack as famous as Roujiamo. This snack is steamed with batter and rice noodles in Shaanxi. It is very popular in various places. Liangpi and stir-fried jelly are definitely the protagonists at major temple fairs. People passing by will always eat a bowl of economical, affordable , delicious and inexpensive plum and vegetable braised meat cake. The plum and vegetable cake is put into the stove here. It's 3 yuan , 3 yuan, sweet and salty, 3 yuan for plum vegetables, 5 yuan for plum vegetables, 3 yuan, sweet and 3 kinds of cakes, right? These are freshly made plum cakes, and the sesame cakes are sold right now. Really hot plum and vegetable braised meatloaf is very popular. There are many ways to make sesame seed pancakes in various parts of China. There are hanging stove pancakes in Shandong and Hebei, and there are also bundled pan pancakes in Gansu and Qinghai. There are sweet sesame pancakes south of the Yangtze River, and there are also dried plum and vegetable pancakes at the foot of the Qinling Mountains. Different cooking methods also have different tastes. The freshly baked sesame cakes in the market today exude a charming aroma. It combines the cooking methods from all over the country. There are five-spice, original and sweet ones. Individuals can choose salty ones for 3 yuan each according to different tastes. The black sesame seeds are sweet and the white sesame seeds are beautiful . We just took a photo of a shop selling buckwheat noodles. After walking a few steps, we saw buckwheat noodles again. Shaanxi people really like this kind of food and are very fond of it. The noodles made by pressing the dough on this traditional wooden bed are quite chewy . The freshly cooked noodles have a distinct fragrance of buckwheat. They can be made with soup or mixed with dry mix. The dry mix mainly uses meat sauce to enhance the flavor. The spicy oil is the finishing touch . A bowl of handmade noodles sells for 10 yuan. Freshly made buckwheat noodles are a skill and a labor of strength. The hard-working boss keeps operating the wooden mold and squeezing it again and again. I don't know what he is doing. How many bowls of noodles can be made in a day is also a great test for physical strength. 10 yuan per pound, 10 yuan, 10 yuan per plate, 33 , okay, okay, are there any ingredients added in here ? There are also sunflower kernels. This is millet cake, right? This is five kernels. The millet cakes are fried on site and sold at the same time. You can taste them before buying. The sweetness and deliciousness attract many people. This snack has many names. In the south, it is called rice cakes. In the north, it is called millet cakes . Of course, the ingredients used in the north and south are different from those in the north. Millet is the main ingredient. In the south, rice is mainly used. Peanuts and walnut kernels are melon seeds and millet. What kind of rice krispies are added to millet now? This kind of millet crispy rice cake candy is usually fried with old sugar. Some also add a little honey for seasoning and then mix sunflower seeds into it. Peanut kernels, walnut kernels and other auxiliary ingredients are made in Sichuan and Chongqing. Dried fruits of various colors are added to it, which makes the taste of rice krispie treats even richer. Hahahaha, millet cakes are 15 yuan per pound . Where can I scan on WeChat? How much is it here ? Liangpi 8 pieces The pastry oil cake is crispy and fragrant . The pastry oil cake is crispy and crispy. The pastry oil cake is another sweet delicacy. The fermented flour and glutinous rice flour are mixed and kneaded, and then brown sugar and white sugar are rolled into it. The main fillings are fried in an oil pan. After frying at high temperature, the sugar in the dough is completely melted. The oil cake is crispy and crispy. Oil cakes are very common in the north. Our program has also filmed fried cakes from the Northeast , and this is Shaanxi. The puff pastry oil cake has different flavors. The filling of Northeast fried cake is mainly red bean paste . The filling of this kind of puff pastry oil cake is mainly brown sugar and white sugar. The taste is relatively pure sugar oil cake with its sweetness. The thicker and more colorful ones are dried fruits, right? Yes, this oil is guaranteed. Boss, what kind of oil is this? Soybean oil, stone-ground coarse grain golden cake, sweet and delicious, suitable for all ages . Boss, this is sold by kilograms, right? How much does it cost per kilogram? 12 yuan . Let's take a look at the boss's food. Hello boss, can I take a photo of this? It's okay. It 's okay. What's the name of this food ? Big meaty spicy dumplings. Wow, this looks so solid. How much does this bowl cost? 20 yuan. Okay. It also has to be topped with spicy oil . It is a big meat spicy dumpling in Hu County, Shaanxi Province , which is now Huyi District, Xi'an City. However, the delicacies are still called Huxian snacks. This is people's recognition of the taste of their hometown. There are many big meat spicy dumplings in this temple fair. Every house has it. The seats are packed . This pot is very similar to braised pork. The boss of this restaurant is also very honest. Each bowl is filled with plenty of ingredients. Spending 20 yuan to eat such a bowl of meat-flavored delicacies is quite satisfying . This is the glutinous rice noodles. This glutinous rice noodles. Ah, it's 10 yuan, 10 yuan. This is fish , that is , leaky fish spicy food. Do you want the honey soft twist ? I'll make it right here. Beauty, I'll take a picture of your twist . How much does it cost? 12 yuan per catty. Give me 3 pieces for 13 yuan. The honey twists made by Qian's hand on site are very popular. The young stall owner is very busy making and selling them by himself . 12.4 yuan and 12 yuan are enough. 12 yuan and 4 cents. The sweet and salty ones are available . Take two sweet ones and watch what the boss is doing. Is this mutton steamed buns and haggis soup? Is this mutton steamed buns haggis ? Is this steamed buns and haggis soup? How much is the haggis soup? It's 20 yuan. Boss, how do you sell this watermelon? How do you sell it for three yuan a piece? A bowl costs three yuan a bowl. This is a big watermelon. Where is the watermelon? This one is from Yunnan. Oh , this one weighs twenty or thirty kilograms. How about selling for more than 30 kilograms ? Hey, the weather has not been good these two days. The weather has been bad. Today is better. There are also many kinds of fruits in this temple fair market. Compared with the fixed markets, the prices of the fruits sold at the venue are cheaper. Gannan navel oranges, which look good, cost 10 yuan and 7 pounds. This is the cheapest orange I have encountered recently. Shaanxi specialty persimmon cakes are here. Fuping sugar-coated persimmon cakes are here. 8 yuan. 8 yuan. Wholesale price: 8 yuan. Cut in half. 30 pieces . Try first before buying. Freshly baked hot chestnuts, 10 yuan per pound . Delicious . Very hot chestnuts. Hot chestnuts . The hot chestnuts that come out of the pot are 10 yuan per pound. They are very delicious. Is this a yam tablet? The pot is out, boss, are these yam tablets? These are tartary buckwheat slices. Tartary buckwheat slices come again. One pot costs 12.4 yuan 15. You can put them together. This big bag costs 27 yuan . Crispy pears look very good . 10 yuan 4 Big crispy pear, Huxian soft noodles, authentic Huxian hand-stretched noodles. The more you mix them, the chewier they become . I'll give you the next five minutes. Sorry, sorry, our soft noodles are wide. Soft noodles are wide soft noodles. Is it wide? What kind of noodles is this thin one? Latiaozi Huxian soft noodles are called one of the eight monsters in Guanzhong. The noodles are as wide as a trouser belt. The reason why they are called soft noodles is because there is a lot of water mixed into the dough when kneading . It seems soft , but its peculiarity is that the dough after cooking is very chewy. This is the simple and magical delicacy bred in the Qinling Mountains of Wubao Tianhua. How much does this soft noodle cost in total? 13 yuan. Pat me and I will give it to you specially. I am very willing to focus the camera on the enthusiastic boss. His busy figure is like the hard work of thousands of hard-working Chinese people. The family is doing a business together, which is harmonious and beautiful. From this continuous scene, we can see His delicacies must taste good. Come to the authentic Huxian hand-made pulled strips. The more they mix, the stronger and more beautiful they become . Who can buy this big tiger for 100 yuan today ? I will give this to everyone for free. 100 yuan. 100 yuan. Does anyone want it? Originally, this tiger has a minimum of 300. Which one do you want? Which crane can't be sent ? The crane is a crane with a couplet in the middle hall. I want a set of three couplets. You take one. I don't have a couplet here. Boss Changsha Stinky Tofu , can I take a photo of your delicious food? You can eat Changsha stinky tofu without going to Changsha. Welcome everyone to taste the world's delicacies on the spot. Changsha stinky tofu is the gold medal snack of the Hunan Provincial Committee for entertaining foreign guests. Changsha's unique stinky tofu. Our stinky tofu uses traditional techniques and is characterized by its freshness, tenderness and spicy taste. The stinky tofu is crispy on the outside. Linen Changsha stinky tofu is also a local specialty snack. Needless to say, it comes from Changsha, Hunan. It smells stinky and tastes delicious. This is the most direct summary of this delicacy. This seemingly ordinary delicacy also has a history of hundreds of years in China . The essence lies in the perfect combination of fermented tofu cubes and secret brine. It tastes delicious and unique in Changsha. The tofu cubes that have been soaked for a long time have absorbed all the aroma of the brine and emitted a strange smell. However, after frying, they are extremely delicious and crispy on the outside, tender on the inside, and lingering in the mouth . Friends who have been to Changsha know that they cannot eat Changsha stinky tofu when they come to Changsha. It's like Bai Lai can now eat Changsha stinky tofu without going to Changsha. The dozen or so seasoning ingredients are also indispensable, including diced radish, coriander, chopped peanuts, and chopped green onion. The last spoonful of soup is made from tube bones and chicken racks. The broth is also an indispensable ingredient of Changsha stinky tofu. The mulberries are tasted first before buying. They are very sweet. How much does this box cost? 10 yuan per box . They are all fresh . I made a short video. I made a short video. How much does this bag cost? 10 yuan for a bag of jelly. Let me take a look. How do we sell our jelly? It costs 10 yuan for a portion. Boss, is this a cantaloupe? Yes, how do we sell this melon ? It costs five yuan a pound. It costs 5 yuan. The price is per kilogram. How many kilograms does such a big melon cost? This one is about 4 kilograms. This melon has been peeled by our boss. From here, we can see that it is sold by pieces, right? How much is this piece ? 5 yuan. Orleans chicken legs are 10 yuan. 3 nuts. The lotus root powder has been prepared. Here it is put into bags. Sister, how much does this bag sell for? One bag is three kilograms, 20 yuan. It looks really good. The autumn fungus in southern Shaanxi is 30 yuan per kilogram, two kilograms, 55 yuan. What is the boss's name? Shaannan Dried tofu , spicy tofu, dried tofu in southern Shaanxi will not leak. You can rest assured that it will not leak. Cash is also universal. Boss, is this bag a pound? One pound and two taels. How much does it cost per piece? Iron plate tofu, mung bean crisp, mung bean crisp. Mung bean cakes with whole grains are delicious and not expensive . How much is a bag of healthy food ? 5 yuan. Mung bean cakes are 5 yuan. Baked rice cakes, barbecued sausages, mineral water , and freshly baked popcorn. Very sweet. Try it . It comes from Yinchuan, Ningxia. The travel price is 15 per pound 15 per pound 18 rice crackers. Today is 15. After feeding it, you can see it for free tomorrow and eat it for free. Okay, come on, everyone has a taste. You said I have saved money all my life. How much money have you saved this year? Look, this is a crisis. 10 yuan, I charge you 10 yuan. I ask my aunt to give it to everyone. How can I sell these strawberries ? 20 per pot. This mango is very good. The mango is 8 yuan. 8 yuan per pound . The mango is beautiful. Apples in Bianluochuan are 25 yuan a bag. 25 yuan a bag. How much does it cost to make a bag of popcorn on site ? Five yuan. This is corn, hazelnut, and tea is sold here. Let's take a look. Roses, wolfberry, golden silk, and royal chrysanthemums are all available. Take a look at the golden silk royal chrysanthemum. One tael is 20 yuan. Here is one tael for 35 yuan. There are various kinds of tea. There are golden buds, 1 tael, 35, West Lake Longjing, one tael and 35 Maojian, one tael and 45 Quetongue, 35 yuan. There are too many varieties. Ziyang in front. Maojian one liang 18 Anxi Tieguanyin one liang 26 followed by Anji Bai one liang 35 yuan. How do we sell these chicken legs? 10 yuan for 3 pieces, 10 yuan for 3 pieces. And these sweet potatoes are 8 yuan a pound, 8 yuan a pound fresh. Orleans roasted chicken legs 10 yuan for 3, delicious, inexpensive, affordable, very fragrant, home-grown black fungus, 2 pounds 40, 25 yuan for 2 pounds, 40 for 2 pounds, discount 6 yuan, 10 yuan per box, 2 boxes of imperial concubine cake, pea cake, pea cake Mung bean cake is delicious, not expensive, economical, 2 yuan a bunch, 5 yuan, 3 boxes of pea cake, 6 yuan a box. Before we knew it, we arrived at the Huayang Temple. It is named after the Huayang Valley at the northern foot of the Qinling Mountains. It was first built in the Northern Song Dynasty and is worshiped inside. The Dongyue Emperor is the Taishan God. It originated from the ancient people's worship of mountains and rivers in nature worship. Dongyue Earth has great power because it controls the mountains and rivers, the status of the subjects, and life and death in the world . Therefore, it has been worshiped by the rulers of the past dynasties. The original Huayang Temple There are more than 130 temples. It is a well-preserved ancient building complex. The existing Dongyue Xiandian is the main building and retains the architectural style of the Yuan Dynasty. There are now 49 temples. The walls on these two sides are many of the merit lists of the temple fair. Friends donated a lot of money. Most of the money was used for the expenses of this temple fair and the repair work of the temple. Now follow my lens and let's take a general look at the scenes in this temple. The organizer of this temple fair has specially opened a parking lot for this temple fair. There are so many cars. Liangpi is 5 yuan a piece, economical and affordable. Roujiamo is 5 yuan a piece, 5 yuan a piece. Cheap and affordable. Sugar cane is a big cart. Sugar cane . Gold sugar cane is 20 yuan a piece. People from the temple fair are gradually arriving here. It's also navel oranges from Gannan. It's 10 yuan and 4 pounds. It's another big cart. This is the stone steamed bun . Brother, how much are these three rice dumplings? 3 for 6 yuan. Down jackets are now priced at 45 yuan and more than 100 yuan. Mink fur is currently priced at 4 yuan. Lamb's wool, which is more than 100 yuan, is now priced at 45 yuan, fifty- nine yuan. A horse clip is currently priced at 29 yuan. Come on, last day, last day. Feather duster. 35 yuan a piece, which is really good. Fuping's persimmons are 8 yuan a pound.