(muffled crowd chattering) - Good morning, I hope It's Mark Wiens, I'm in Mexico City. (traffic rumbling) I got an email from Moises, he loves to eat, and he said, &quot;When you come to Mexico &quot;I wanna show you some So I'm on my way to go meet Moises now. He's gonna take us on a Mexican street food tour of Mexico City, especially focusing on We're gonna visit some But first, we are gonna go eat breakfast at this stall which is in La Condesa, that is known for, well, We're on our way there now. This is gonna be an awesome (energetic drumbeat) - [Man] Not Moises, but he's - (laughing) OK, cool. - Nice to meet you. Moises, what's up man? - Nice to meet you. Torta de chilaquil. Maybe we can say it's Green and red. These are my friends. - Hello. - Nice to meet you. - Ignacio, and Julia. (woman speaking foreign language) (man speaking foreign language) - [Mark] And a torta is, it's a sandwich, and so they start with a loaf of bread. I think they fill in frijoles? - So beans, and then they have all the ingredients laid out here. - Chicken, and then you have to choose between the green chilaquiles - [Mark] OK, and that includes cheese? - [Moises] Uh huh, and cream. - [Mark] And cream, and Is it chips? - Fried tortilla. - Fried tortilla with salsa. - It's like crunchy, but then it turns kinda saucy with all the salsa. - [Moises] Yeah, exactly. (people speaking foreign language) (traffic rumbling) (person whistles) (car honking) (woman speaking foreign language) - Grab your-- - Tortas. (Julia speaking foreign language) (man speaking foreign language) - I like more green. - Green... - I think maybe 80% of - Like the green? Oh, OK. OK, so green is one of their top sellers. - Yeah, exactly. - Yeah, they told us that they were done with the green ones for - Wow, already, and it's only 9am. - [Man] Yeah. (laughs) (birds chirping) (traffic rumbling) - [Moises] Really, really good. (Julia speaking foreign language) - [Julia] Si, this is green. (men chattering) - [Mark] Gracias. On the inside is actually a milanesa, which is a fried breaded and then they put in they put in some cream, she adds in the, you can see those are actually like fried tortilla chips which are kinda crushed up and then added with the sauce, the green chile, to make it kinda saucy. (energetic drumbeat) Mmm, oh. The bread is crusty, but You've got that thin You can taste the green And then it has like kind they're not crunchy kind of like a tortilla sauce, which just explodes with flavor in there. You've got the creamy taste of the cheese, yeah, that's very good. What do you think? - I think it's awesome. - And I think your - [Man] My favorite part is the chicken mixed with the sauce. - Oh, yeah. (energetic drumbeat) - Yeah, this is not a It's heavy, it's dense. You've got carbs on top of carbs on top of carbs, and it is delicious. I'm really starting to get And it's just, that And look, more and more Moises was telling me that if you come at about 11am today, the So perfect timing. This was an amazing way to start the day. And we're on our way next which is a very well-known (people speaking foreign language) (relaxed cumbia music) Wow, that line, as we are leaving, it's stretching into the park now. We just arrived to Mercado de San Juan. This is known as a gourmet and already there's a This is a really cool market - (speaking foreign language) cherries. - Cherry? I'll try. Gracias. Look at the size of those. Wow, look at the size of those! This market is known as being a high-end, very gourmet market. You walk around, you see cheeses, they have all sorts of different meats imported from around the world, but it's a very nice it's very organized, and yeah, they have some very (woman speaking foreign language) (sizzling) (woman laughs) We've stopped at a stall of prehispanic and exotic (man speaking foreign language) - [Mark] OK. (crowds chattering) (relaxed cumbia music) (woman speaking foreign language) Esta bueno. It has a strong flavor. (woman laughs) (crowds chattering) - [Mark] He just freshly They're not too huge, He said eat the scorpion, (relaxed cumbia music) Oh wow, it's kinda juicy. Oh! It almost has like a nutty, kinda like slight chocolatey flavor to it, with a little bit of a bitterness. That's a good combination. That was a tasty scorpion. You still alive? (relaxed cumbia music) - This market is fantastic. You'll find so many exotic things. But some of the stalls are not that open, because it's a Sunday morning right now. I'm glad we got to try a scorpion. But we're gonna proceed which is one of the ultimate markets of downtown Mexico City, do some serious street food eating. (energetic drumbeat) We just arrived to Mercado de La Merced. This is one of the most It's huge, and just you can see the energy starts to pick up, it's getting busier and busier, there's stall after stall of just everything you can possibly imagine. (crowds chattering) This is just a gargantuan market, so this entire area is all market. We are on a hunt for street food though, but we're passing through everything from batteries and wallets (clacking and squeaking) Passing through a passageway, We are arriving to the food (crowds chattering) (woman speaking foreign language) (man speaking foreign language) (clacking) (woman speaking foreign language) (man speaking foreign language) (clacking) (clacking) (sizzling) - We're stopping first flattening the masa, over the hot plate, they're filling it with some kind of a meat mixture, and then they fold them wow, look at that basket full of candy. And then they fry over here, and it's almost like a wok-looking rounded hot skillet as well. They smell unbelievable. (crowds chattering) - A chicharron quesadilla. Awesome. - [Mark] OK, and there's - [Man] Well, it's a - So it's not the pork skin, - [Mark] OK, and there's - No, no cheese. - No cheese? - Then just the salsa roja? - OK. - Hmm. Mm! (laughing) It's extremely good, extremely good. The tortilla is fresh made red salsa, is very good, extremely good. - Look at all that meat (crowds chattering) (chuckling) Oh. Oh that's awesome. Oh, oh, that's ridiculous. That meat is like so And then, oh, that salsa is awesome, and then you can really taste the freshness of that tortilla. They grill it over those hot plates so that it sort of gets crispy. Oh that's superb. Oh wow. - So this one is cheese-- The thing, here in Mexico City, not all quesadillas are This one specifically is with cheese. - [Mark] Very interesting. - Yeah, but the cheese (crowds chattering) - [Mark] Stringy cheese? - Esta bueno? - OK and next up, this is and it's also with salsa (relaxed cumbia music) Yep. Oh, really good. Yeah, that's like a (man speaking foreign language) (woman laughs) And beef, onions, and tomato sauce. (crowds chattering) (dishes clinking) (laughing) Oh, that's amazing, yeah. It's almost like a barbecue sauce. And again those tortillas And I love how they fry so that they get kinda crispy. So good. Which one is the best? - Chicharron. - Chicharron. - I agree, that chicharron Muy, muy bueno. - It was absolutely amazing. OK, we're movin' on. (crowds chattering) (sizzling) (man speaking foreign language) There's so much meat in the air. - Tacos, tacos, tacos, tacos. - [Man] We need salsa. (sizzling) (chopping) (crowds chattering) (man speaking foreign language) - [Mark] Gracias. - [Man] So there's green, (talking over each other) (man speaking foreign language) - [Mark] Whichever one is very spicy. - With, or with... - [Man] (speaking foreign red on this one, so the green. - [Mark] OK, we can try both. (speaking foreign language) (crowds chattering) - Salted beef, they also in this taco have French fries, nopales, and onion. (laughs) That's a plus. - The deal breaker here, the game changer, is that they add on a whole That's like a whole pack of French fries on top of your taco. You've gotta really like Look at, it's just (relaxed cumbia music) Cheers. (Moises laughs) - Oh, wow. Oh, that's amazing. Oh, the salsa in there, crispy French fries, the beef, - [Man] They add texture, - Look at all that. OK, now I gotta try this onion. (crowds chattering) Oh it's so sweet and juicy. (man speaking foreign language) (he laughs) (crowds chattering) Never in my life have tasted and sounded so delicious. That was absolutely awesome. Here, we gotta try this. - It's the same meat, but-- We're right down the ate an exploding French fries taco. OK, hola. - It's called pancita. - Beef stomach. - But it's in a spicy I think it's guajillo, and pasilla. Those kinds. And the beef have four stomachs, right, so it's different texture - [Mark] Cool. - Squeezing. - [Mark] Hold your stomach in. - It looks like it's a clay red soup, and it's called pancita, which is a variety of cow And it's gorgeous, you can see just herbs overflowing in there. There's a paddle there she uses to stir it with, and she just dishes it out. This place is bumpy. (dishes clinking) (crowds chattering) (soup splashing) (woman speaking foreign language) (crowds chattering) (Julia laughing) - Mm. - Esta bueno? (crowds chattering) - The first thing that you have to admire here is the size of this spoon. That's a good-sized spoon. I'm gonna dip it, I'm just gonna taste the broth first before I do anything. They added some onions, some cilantro, and some lime as well in here. (crowds chattering) Oh. Has like this smoky flavor to it. Can taste like a roasted flavor. And it does have a little That's delicious, I got OK, now to try some of the chunkier bits. Oh, how 'bout this, Oh yeah, that looks like (crowd chattering) It's really tender. Mm, it is a little bit jiggly. That broth is awesome though. It's made with roasted chiles, so it has that wonderful - [Man] Green salsa, - [Mark] OK, and also maybe that chile. (crowd chattering) Thank you so much. I think it's better in taco. - That's the way everybody's eating it, if you look around this - It's very oily, yes. - Oily. - And spicy. - Hold on, I wanna get that chile. That was a little bit chewy. A little bit rubbery. But delicious. (crowds chattering) In the kitchen back here, they're boiling more of the soup, and That's a serious boil. And then I guess once it cooks here, then they transport it to the clay vessel at the front, that's where they distribute it, that's where they serve it. And then, wow, I can feel the heat comin' off the tortillas over here and by the way, the tortillas here are also top-notch, excellent. (crowds chattering) Not only was that food It will arouse your senses. That's so visual, (crowds chattering) There's enough food in this Pambazo, yeah, I've never tried that. (sizzling) - Pambazo? - Si. (sizzling) (speaking foreign language) - [Man] Roja, por favor. (relaxed cumbia music) - Hola. (Mark laughs) - [Mark] Wow, what's - [Man] This is a pambazo. It's a bolillo, which is bread, and it's fried and - [Mark] So that's why it's - Yeah, that's why it's red colored. - [Mark] Coating all of - (laughing) Yeah. And then it's filled with potatoes, and chorizo mix, and cream, and cheese on (he laughs) - Gonna eat it here? - [Man] Let's go. (crowds chattering) - Cheers! - Cheers! (relaxed cumbia music) - Oh, yeah. Oh, wow. That is flavorful. Can taste the chorizo in there, you can taste the salsa, the cream. The bread is pretty cool. - Yeah, definitely. - The chorizo is really good in there. (crowds chattering) The chorizo in there, That's what flavors, that's what powers this entire sandwich, is that chorizo. How is it? - Gracias. - You will not believe how many different types of salsa and meat juices are all over my fingers and All over the camera. (laughing) (relaxed cumbia music) This market is just out of control. There are just masses Any kind of Mexican food you can buy the ingredients here. Do you need a pinata? You have about 1,000 different choices, from dinosaurs to Power Rangers. Mamey. (man speaking foreign language) (man speaking foreign language) - Provecho. (laughs) - (laughing) So many people here. I got sandwiched. This is a fruit called mamey. It kinda looks like an oval egg shape. This is a fruit I've never tried. And on the inside it (crowds chattering) Mm. Oh. - It's like meaty, right? - It's really sweet. It's almost like a with a very sweet, almost It's a very dense fruit. It's like condensed sweetness. (crowds chattering) we have just emerged from If you go the to dictionary, for culinary wonderland, La Merced, this market will be It's amazing. If you love food, you will just be in awe. I was just walkin' around with my jaw open, my mouth drooling. There's so much food, there's there's so much color, (man speaking foreign language) - [Man] Do you want it with chile? (man speaking foreign language) (traffic roaring) - [Julia] Yay, gracias. - I just love how they cut the mangoes here into like a bouquet. It looks like a flower. He sprinkles on quite a nice I think I got it all over my chin. Oh, that's delicious. The mango is sweet, and then you've got that salty chamoy, which contrasts it. (laughs) I got it all over my chin. (woman laughing) Yeah, the mango's sweet. (energetic drumbeat) (traffic roaring) - Hola, buenos dias. (Moises speaking foreign language) - We're on our way now to downtown. Micah also got a mango He ate the entire top half. Oh hi, Micah. (energetic drumbeat) So this is the center, and we're going to a place And they are legendary. This is the place you come in The takeaway line actually snakes all the way down the outside, but the line for sitting in is not that long, so we We're gonna sit down, we're gonna sample the churros here, the original. We're getting permission (crowds chattering) - Gracias. (man speaking foreign language) (sugar spilling) - This place is as crazy But in a totally different, I didn't want to stay in because it's so hectic, and I don't wanna get in their way. But they allowed be to just go back and see how they make the churros. They have the batter and he's such an expert, he takes these long chopsticks and he kind of swirls it around into a giant circular It's like a hose, it's and then it goes into a bath of sugar. (crowds chattering) - Ensopeo. You got to introduce your It's called sopear. (relaxed cumbia music) - Oh yeah. They're crunchy, they're gooey, They're sugary. It's sweet and salty. It is really, really good. Wow. Oh that's amazing, dip you've got the extra chocolate factor, you've got the milkiness Yeah, I think what's good to me is just, it's just the perfect gooey crunchy texture combined all together. If you love churros, if you love sweets, this is a place you have Yeah, those churros are next-level. (relaxed cumbia music) We're walking on our way to el zocalo, and there are just masses of people. But el zocalo is the historic Everything in Mexico City And we're coming up on it very soon. (energetic drumbeat) We made the walk through We made it to el zocalo. This is the central plaza, it's a giant plaza, it just opens up. There's some very This is where they hold places where lots of people can gather. Wow, it's huge here. (simmering) (crowds chattering) We're stopping next to eat esquite, and it is a very common Mexican street food snack throughout Mexico City. - [Man] Esta bueno? - Really nice. (man laughing) - Whoa. I got a big chunk of mayonnaise. And that's good. Yeah, the corn, the salsa in there's salty, a little bit spicy. It's creamy. It's also warm on a cold day. (relaxed cumbia music) It's a fantastic street food snack. It tastes so good, it's it's limey, it's cheesy, it's creamy. (buskers playing jazz) - Turkey tortas. We've made it to the next spot on this Mexican street food tour of Mexico City. This is a place, you can they have some giant fried turkeys. (relaxed cumbia music) - Yeah? - Very good. Simple, but very tasty. - This place has been serving them since 1928, this is an institution. (dishes clinking) Mm. Yeah, the bun is really, really soft, and then you've got the shreds of turkey. It just tastes like a classic. Some chiles. Soup in a coffee cup. Oh, that's just like It's, yeah, I think you're supposed to add your own salt, 'cause it's not salty. But it is good, it's very turkey. The turkey torta is It's yeah, it's been around Overall it's good, a little We've got one more stop on and it's gonna be a good final ending. (energetic drumbeat) Here it is, the final stop. You want a cheek? Cheek, and-- - Yes I want a cheek, very badly. - We try the cheek, and there's also eye. There's ear. - Choose me your two favorite. (talking over each other) (man speaking foreign language) - Ah, everyone has their - [Mark] My trust is in you. (man speaking foreign language) (crowds chattering) - [Man] (sighing) OK. (glasses clinking) (relaxed cumbia music) - [Mark] Which salsa is for this? - [Man] I'd go with the red one. (man speaking foreign language) (laughing) You know you when the meat doesn't fall off. - Cheek taco. Oh. Oh. Wow. That's insane. It's fatty, it's juicy, mm. - A little bit chewy. The beef cheek is so good. - Great, great, great, great, great. - Amazing tacos, the best flavor. It's my favorite. - It's absolutely amazing. - Cheers, man. Next one is cabeza, which is So there's some cheek in there, there's some eye, there's some... - [Man] Some I don't know what it is. - Yeah, some parts you don't (relaxed cumbia music) That's spectacular. - [Man] Which are better, cheek or cabeza? - I don't know. I sorta like the cabeza, the mix, yeah. That's just a blend of head. So we've come to the end of this incredible Mexican street food tour. - [Man] It was crazy. - It's been so much fun and, they are just it's called, what's the name? - Five Mexican Guys. - Five Mexican Guys, they're so go check out their channel, I'll leave the link in the description box. They're gonna make awesome - [Man] Yeah, we're gonna do Mexican food videos, legit Mexican food. - And Mexican recipes, so and for family and surprise them. - I've thoroughly enjoyed hangin' out and eating with all of you guys. - I did too, it was awesome. (talking over each other) - Muchas gracias. Remember to click thumbs and also click the subscribe button. I'm gonna be publishing lots Goodbye from Mexico City. - Bye! - Hasta luego! - Tell me what was your - It's hard to decide but the bolillo filled with potatoes and chorizo, it was the best. - Mine was the quesadilla of chicharron. - I loved the head tacos of - My favorite one was the beef taco with French fries on top. And it is something that you will only find at markets, and maybe we will be coming back soon, so don't (laughing) - Yes, OK, and I have to say - Mine was also the taco I loved it. - Yeah, quesadilla with - [Man] Quesadilla with cheese, great.