From the world of politics to the world This is balance of power. Live from Washington, D.C.. studios to our TV and radio audiences Welcome to Balance of Power. Donald Trump officially nominates Doug him as the chair of a new National fire nominations for posts in his second And it's not over yet. our political panel. member Democratic Congresswoman Gwen Plus, Mary Lovely of the Peterson Biden set to meet with China's Xi summit in Peru tomorrow. the latest name on the Cabinet list, Donald Trump teased the announcement Mar a Lago. announced tomorrow and we have somebody to be announced who's a big one. and with land interior. And so I look forward to doing the pretty big announcement right now. Department of Interior and he's going to We didn't even need the press statement I'm joined now by Bloomberg's Megan that formal statement today. Interior, which Donald Trump told us Energy Council. Yes, a little bit of a title bump. Republican primaries, but he ran a very And Trump kind of took a liking to him, wanted to give him a prominent position. But it turns out that in the federal as much sway over energy policy, are underneath these public lands as as But giving him this expanded role in the presumably it's something similar to the Security Council. the federal government that will deal And and so giving Burgum an outsized one of the more measured, shall we say, You've got your Doug Burgum and your more establishment established in there and others. So I see you know, I think Burgum and Capitol Hill when it comes time for The others might have a bit rockier of a Well, I actually discussed that future comes to Matt Gaetz. Republican leadership, the West Virginia that controversial pick. We have a process here. It has to go through the Judiciary And so we're a long way from really end up in the end. to every single one of the president's And that due diligence might include Committee report in the House that now Gates resigned after he was nominated What exactly is going to happen here? document in Washington right now. And House Speaker Mike Johnson said we This sets a bad precedent to be since Matt Gaetz is a newly former But this was a bipartisan it is a And things don't tend to stay secret on It is floating out there. capacity probably before too long. doesn't get leaked, seeing it in some can evaluate leading up to the We'll see what happens. what is in this. Senate leadership really navigates not like RFK Junior for HHS. loyalty test or could be seen as such the Senate, John Thune, or is this nominations are going down so he can That's going to end up looking like a Yeah, one of the things that struck me talking about there's a process for this nominees or it can be the enemy because to get a respectful hearing. vote up or down, it'll be a vote up. might just pull the nomination. background checks. Committee report and it means like Robert F Kennedy Jr. Department of HHS? How does that conflict with the science around vaccines in food and medicine So the process could go either way? theoretically. Capital last night we've been hearing should happen quickly, that the have those he wants close to him, be administration. at for the processing of all of these? confirmation hearings in the first weeks inauguration, which of course, is During the first Trump term, we saw, I two others who were confirmed on the day I think they're hoping for that kind of Maybe Doug Burgum could get confirmed interior in place on January 20th. general or some of these other picks, That is what we are hearing from Senate from Senator Thune last night in his It's what we've heard from Senator reluctant to give up the steering wheel I think it is hard for them. to bat away for nominees, you know, But, you know, when you look at that, at there are about four that are generating And I think there'll be some strategic still picking and choosing to be done secretary, which we've all been waiting I know it's only been a week and change. lasted for a month. close to a Treasury pick because he campaign trail. his economic team? And back in 1992, Bill Clinton and he put a priority on getting his the exclusion of equally important Trump has done it the other way around. may be in large part due to the team of on here with a lot of people vying for We understand that two of the of the Howard Lutnick. their own of allies and people are Trump likes that kind of of auditioning After all, he was on TV on The for jobs. And reportedly, what we're hearing is that process and now seeking out other So the short list may even be growing we may even not have heard of yet. being Treasury secretary, are we likely administration, whether at the National Advisors, or if you don't make the lobbying so hard for it? right, you will not have a role in this bank or, you know, a Wall Street titan, Council does not have exactly the same There's also the chairman of the Council There are some key economic roles the U.S. Robert Lighthizer was on the roll in the for promotion in the Treasury secretary, complicating this. Treasury is most prominent, but whoever take what's perceived as a lesser role And just quickly here, Megan, basically this is not someone pulled from the Right? We're getting awfully close to we don't we do know it will be a narrow We already have Matt Gates now who is We have at least two picks from the And if I were Mike Johnson, I'd be majority and the speaker vote come Everybody is watching the numbers. Courtney, thank you both so much. the presidential transition thus far of Wisconsin, a member of the House Ways Next on balance of power on Bloomberg TV Matt Gates, attorney general. It is just stunningly bizarre. Trump, who says we should have openness demanding that the Ethics Committee report today and might still report public. California on today's early edition of nomination of Matt Gaetz for attorney the ethics investigation into him now For more, I'm joined now on Bloomberg TV the House, Democratic Congresswoman Gwen House Ways and Means Committee. Late edition of Balance of Power. report to this point has not been Are you confident that it will be or at like to see the content will be able to Thank you for having me, Kelly. released. the part of the speaker of the House Matt Cave's gate seems to be working keep it from being released. president of the United States who has him in this confirmation process. a recess appointments. Gates will not be confirmed as attorney America. Brad Sherman. eyebrows. suggested the reason this report a bad precedent to release a formal member. There has been a precedent. it met Gates conveniently resigned after I think that if he were just going to would be one thing. considered for the attorney general of Heading up the Justice Department with trafficking, rape. I'm not a senator, but if I were a want to see that report. Sorry to interrupt you. allegations. more. be in the House any longer in this that you still have to get done, beyond the deadline in December. continuing resolution, another kicking Congress? done either through separate bills or I hope that we would have at least one We have just only a few days to consider 190 characters will be very, very You know, elections have consequences. was so willing to be bipartisan and to colleagues. too far. that way. that are part of these congressional I'm thinking of Kennedy, Robert Kennedy We have 83 children who died of measles the vaccination program. Director with ties to Putin in Syria is things. You know, we haven't seen the financial the best of these nominations. hawk on China that I think that that's China war and those people who voted for economic woes. strange. Will for sure see the next recession So I certainly hope that the Senate platter that they're supposed to be, and the attorney general and what we've Can I borrow Brad Sherman's Bizarre. I'd like to pick up on your on your Ways and Means Committee. those tariffs is not just about with China. Treasury's coffers. like to deliver. You sit on the committee that looks at To what extent is that true? history. When we imposed tariffs, then we went So I said, you know, I only have history Certainly the supply chain, I mean, if it's like to just have that be a problems, prices will will be greater. and Means Committee, we don't That would be a presidential matter. the Senate to be very clear They vet these people. the president has demanded that they asking the United States Senate to And I think that this is a really Senate to stand up for its own And if they don't, it's going to be a Well, we're all along for it. joining me here. Congresswoman Gwen Moore of Wisconsin. Coming up, why one Federal Reserve Bank cut next month. from Boston next. radio. I think we're going to be looking at along the lines of what the dot plot So I still think we have a long way to There's some dispute about what is the settle down. we don't just charge right to it, that Chicago Federal Reserve President Austin rate cuts over the next year with earlier today. President Susan Collins this morning and more. Well, you know, we've had a lot of Street. might pause in December. from the idea of a rate cut. But Goolsbee and Collins suggested that unless they get some additional bad Here's what Susan Collins said she's we got some tough inflation news. pressures. the course. the policy stance as being in a normalizing that I think is going to be Speaking of normalising a lot of they might see going forward under the of them, Kelly, ducking the question, Mr. incorporate it into our forecasts. least their decision for December is the get more bad news. react to on the inflation side or on the Well, we've got important numbers on There'll be another CPI. before the next Fed meeting and we'll December 6th. probably push them in the direction of But another CPI, like we got another that their stalled above 2% might keep They might want to keep the pressure on. December is a new summary of economic They'll put out their new forecasts and The question is, will those have any administration coming to town? We have questions of the shelf life of Reserve Board and the FOMC in general Mike, do you sense any real fear among under Trump? on that one? Neither Goolsbee nor Collins could be Regional Fed bank presidents are hired The president has no say. president weighs in in nominating people But there seems to be a fairly strong that the president has a role in naming role in removing them except for cause All right. Boston. Appreciate your time. with Chinese President Xi Jinping on the tomorrow. the Peterson Institute next on balance This is balance of power on Bloomberg TV meet with China's President Xi Jinping The incoming administration's threat of Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall has those TYLER Yeah. Today at the APEC summit, China's efforts to unwind globalization and the U.S. President elect Trump has threatened a least 60% against Chinese imports and goods. Guggenheim, Jim Millstein says he thinks industry. different. use tariffs to try to onshore critical critical defense industries, back to the world, Europe He'll use those in a way to try to Bloomberg Economics estimates that if a tariff on Chinese imports goes into would be slashed by more than ten And if that same scenario is kept in average US tariff would jump to 20%. of sub 5% rates. potential inflationary impacts. China is a big topic here in Washington. House China Select Committee introduced trade relations with Beijing if passed. that committee today, Republican lawmakers need to strike a balance. products to China. stance that we take. though, that we're ready to get tough on Right. don't start playing on a level playing practices, then there are going to be Kelly It's important to note the Biden tariffs from the first Trump announced hikes on an additional $18 Indeed, they did. much. turn to Mary Lovely. Institute for International Economics Radio. next administration, we do have to And President Biden, for the third time Jinping tomorrow. he's out of office in two months, what I think that's a valid question, Kelly. Ensure that several things that happened military to military communications They had deteriorated badly under the Chinese cooperation on fentanyl Then that continues. he really has very little control over So I think we're right to ask what is Well. we are still seeing cooperation with in communication when it comes to the the president elect would like to see It's not just trade we're considering relationship. I mean, I think he would like to see But on in his first administration, communication agency, the agency So unless he's significantly changed his having that putting that much effort Well, okay, So let's talk about tariffs a very big game in that regard. levies placed on all exports coming from Is that bluster to you, Mary, or do you negotiating tactic? not after we've seen the trade war now about half of what we import from So, no, we don't take it as bluster. wading into a territory that is very Few people realize that much of the many in fact the majority are inputs that are Driving up those costs is really going whom are not ready to get them from domestic sources. that the tariffs we're going to be used I'd really like to know what these We're already under the CHIPS Act trying And of course, in the defense sector, we forever. What we know is going to be hit and Also, these are things that many So laptops, desktops, etc., along with And these are going to drive up costs businesses. consequences for Chinese businesses as And Mary, I wonder how you view the higher tariffs go into place or are they when it comes to capacity or about, and start actually pulling back Or are they actually likely to stimulate economic hit here and so they might industries? the right lines. very small share of their even their So in some sense, they may not care the States, which the removal of the to our EV market are simply not on the So in one sense, they have simply is done with China and they may in fact, So it's not clear how they will respond, environment. Biden's policies were for Trump, in many extensions of Trump's policies. He has placed a large number of sanctions, and he is, of course, had the semiconductors, which have really its technology. nothing that the Chinese want right now. in a rough patch, to put it nicely. of their own is just, you know, going to Hmm. China would look toward in the scenario outright completely decoupled from the Are there other areas where these goods capacity is still being put out there in And what does the US do then? I mean, their share of global since 2016. we we've charted this out. diversified both where it gets its So it's made itself less vulnerable to Its exports, as you say, they have to go Where are they going? countries, mostly other countries Vietnam, India, South America, parts of So they've been shifting for quite some US-China trade war. China's relationship trade or strategic come up in the meeting with Biden and Xi Russia, the relationship with Iran, that How do those other adversaries work into Well, you know, the US has financial The Chinas so far has been very careful Nevertheless, the US is has warned them to Russia things that promote the war But this is a very porous thing. consumer electronics, electronic drones and other things. draw and China's probably right up And I'm sure President Biden is talking The war in Ukraine is of key concern to European allies. But China has pretty much charted its Russia's dependence on it. to see continuing. We will leave it on. your expertise to us. And still ahead, an early challenge for how to handle some of the more elect for his administration. tonight's panel. TV and radio. Former administration. promised on the campaign trail economy, the best border security and And the question that we have to all ask like robert f kennedy Jr. available? reflecting on some of the top elect Donald Trump. this evening's political panel here at Zaino, political science professor at fellow at the Center for the Study of Jon Seaton, Republican strategist and Consulting. Hakeem Jeffries did ask a question as to candidates available. Well, it's great to be with you. terribly surprised. was very clear that Robert F Kennedy Jr, in his administration. thing. This is what people voted for. elect feels like he has a mandate. Electoral College. Senate. though he has kind of free rein to build Well, and that's a really good point, Donald Trump was pretty transparent the campaign and would be close to him And he won the popular vote, perhaps Should the American people really be No, I totally agree with John. He said he was going to do it. And I but I also think that Hakeem Are these the best and the brightest? He has a background in environmental Wouldn't he be better placed at a place But to put him in charge of HHS, given in fact, what he has done, he's going to in Samoa. medically in the last 50 years, hundred And he is somebody who spreads wild So he's going to have a lot to answer But I do agree that Donald Trump said he There are some things he hasn't done economic team, John. at Bloomberg. secretary will be, who will sit on the even though he he campaigns on two border being the other. First, Kristi Noem for DHS, Tom Homan is Stephen Miller is going to have a role considering you spend so much of your What is your reaction to those picks? popular, not just amongst Republicans in a good bit of cross cross party appeal. It is always the top issue facing that along our southern border. very hardline administration when it I think he is delivering on that. long we'll be seeing the economic team Well, I do wonder why it's taking us so place. game? Treasury was never so exciting. Trump is likely still interviewing, to say how he is making these choices. a way that we've never heard before. who he wants. Jamie Dimon, and we know who has pulled few others. the name that we keep hearing. us guessing. he slips it out, maybe at Mar a Lago or Yeah, well, he keeps us guessing and he Lago, which he did last night at a black He had a few words to say about Elon Let's listen. Eli. What a job. And he happens to be a really good guy. I can't get him out of here. And you know what? Unclear if he's tried to get him out and cracking a joke, John. president elect have gotten very close partially in charge of the Department of But these are two big egos, if you will, attention. going to result in conflict. and president elect is necessarily I think he does enjoy some of the the He also likes to make clear that he is Look what Elon Musk did Investing in ground game for the reelection campaign It was a very big deal. are very interested in seeing a possible with its dollars as families So I think it's probably a good fit for Gina, I'll let you get a final word in one. Musk. when the wealthiest man who ever walked the political game. played out. this administration, I will fund So it is a big, big test for democracy. frustrated with the inability of say, Twitter or X when these calls for Yeah, it'll be interesting to see. Jenny and John will stay with me because president who is set to meet with China, That's next on Balance of power. Writing has been on the wall for some Washington tougher approach to China. more aggressive and forward leaning in So we should fully expect that that will as well as on the mind of Donald Trump. to people who are pointing out the policies that they're considering and And Ashton of Ashton Analytics on the potential economic strife between the and China coming in the next year. President Biden will be meeting with So back with us for final thoughts on Shane Zaino and John Seaton. Obviously, Joe Biden is only going to be So it's a question really of what he this or his his trip to APEC and then Yeah, you know, I think there's a few He, of course, wants to take a sort of victory in quotes and try to cement some able to work with China on from the flow climate issues. about that. to be to underscore the need for communication, importantly between these are fraught. dealing with competitors geopolitically. lines of communication, particularly strained at points in the last four When Biden came into office, John, he And I wonder as he gets set to leave back and that it's staying. I think that, you know, he is very office. aside when when he was urged to do so by But I think he is very proud of his four And, look, it's a job that he wanted for Wasn't the first or the second time he'd And so I think this is an opportunity I but one last chance to try to cement his communication with our Chinese And I think that he's going to, you tape on on January 20th. about a minute left here. Joe Biden do you expect Donald Trump Because Donald Trump says, actually, I'm from the war in Ukraine to the one in Yeah, I think he's going to I wouldn't But on China specifically, there seems Biden kept the tariffs in place. Donald Trump has his way and I think He might continue what Biden has been So and China, it's the one area of I just think the Republicans are a bit And Trump will likely be as well. It's popular to be a China hawk. Our political panel this evening. Friday as we close out a busy week in And of course, we have full coverage of In the Washington Edition newsletter. online. here next week on balance of power on