So... you know what upsets me? How people act like Zidane was this natural They act like he came out of the womb wearing when really, he was already 25 when he first That's 8 seasons and 265 matches... but If you ask most football fans, they know nothing If you're lucky you'll get the same old Turin, Kenny Dalglish had asked the owner to reply: "Why do you want to sign "Zidane" And that's exactly where the problem lies... As one newspaper put it "Though the world Zidane was a hard code to decipher at first, Zidane was weird... Forget the "untrained eye", even the greatest what they claimed was a "lanky, sluggish Even Arsene Wenger, the same man who spotted him into the deadliest striker the Premier Even he turned down Zidane when he was back In fact... for a long time, there were only potential he had... You see, after France won the Euro 2000, most they could... But Zidane, the player of the tournament, drove down to Marseille because before he mom... As a member of the french staff once said: next-door neighbor"... In fact, his quiet, withdrawn, almost timid his talent so difficult to spot... While most all time greats seem to be these Zidane just wanted a hug from his mom... But that wasn't the point... what I meant he got the news that a man named Robert Centenero and Zidane did not even think twice, he postponed were the last few days of his life... But why was he so important to him? Well... Back when Zinedine was still Yazid... because name when he was a kid... Centenero was the first person to scout Yazid him to a tiny local club, Septemes de Vallons... did everything for me... He'd drive me to training, he would even the weekends. He was like a father to me"... And it was even thanks to Centenero, that an even bigger impact on his career... Monsieur Varraud... About a year after the two met, Centenero organized by AS Cannes where schoolboys teamed for Yazid, he was benched... but just as it the boy who was playing in his position broke Yazid took over his role and put down an immense only there was no one there to watch him... The scout on duty that day was the famous he had offered to drive the injured kid to In fact, it took 2 years and 3 months for it happen? Well, Monsieur Varaud was in the region to but then the player he was supposed to watch until he spotted none other than the father years earlier, so the two got to talking while so much to Varraud, that he asked: "who the kid who replaced my son when you helped His name is Yazid"... By the end of that match, even though Yazid trial, Varraud was convinced he had spotted hands where his feet were supposed to be"... Just imagine if they had never crossed paths Regardless, not authorized to bring players directors at Cannes to come down to watch that game... I wasn't too good, they played me all the so badly, I risked everything... One time I tried to pull off a sombrero in gave a goal away... I don't know what they saw that day, but In fact, the director who watched him that club so bad that when his parents began insisting without proper parental figures around... He invited him to stay in the bedroom of his much raising him alongside his two other kids... would still be no easy task, because as we If anyone ever dared mock his family or his back, he would hit back... And indeed, It wasn't long before he was again, he had someone by his side, as Jean gifted player... You will have to learn to ignore their words the sidelines, watching others play... If you need to let off some steam, just scrub I don't know"... That last part was supposed to be just a bunch the next day, after everyone left, they found of the coaches would say: "Yazid was an He barely spoke, he always listened and then However, Yazid was far from "making it", up for the French under-17s for the first with someone else and sent him a letter addressed irrelevant he was back then... In fact, it would probably have taken ages not been for Monsieur Varraud yet again... story: "One day, Varraud came, asking me next to ours, I kept telling him that I was see him another time... but he insisted so I gave it a look... and for 25 minutes, I I was mesmerized... As I stood there, a board member walked by 18, uh? He seems really good"... What he didn't realize was that Yazid was Regardless, from that day onwards, Yazid began months later he got his debut... In fact when he got handed five thousand euros he said it himself: "It was 5 or 6 times "This time, I'm gonna buy myself something got a new pair of pants... the rest I sent Regardless, that was the day I realized that And so, even when the board came in his way Yazid, calling him a "dancer", claiming not be putting the club's fate in the hands spending a fortune on wages, just for the ... But regardless, Yazid didn't care, once Every day he stayed behind in training practicing without playing a single minute, they finally would go on to say: "When Zidane stepped got better. It is that simple. It was magic." and that was exactly what happened... That year Yazid finally became Zidane...And campaign in their history, but he was by far He went as far as making sure that the only named the goal of the year... It was a goal so impressive for a kid his him a red Renault Clio as reward, since after didn't even have his own car... By the end, though it had been 44 years since league's top 10, suddenly they were in 4th and as you might imagine, this attracted a who not only was Zidane's childhood club made it to the final of the Champions League... There was only one problem... At that point, Zidane was out on mandatory allow him to travel back and forth so he could It wouldn't be until new year's before wait it out... But unfortunately, by then, with Zidane having club, Cannes' performances had dropped massively, UEFA Cup and sitting all the way down below Suddenly, Zidane didn't look as appealing where they would get him for a smaller fee on loan to Cannes... but in the middle of the signing of Boksic only for Marseille to time was illegal... and just as they decided Boksic just happened to debut precisely as keeper sent off and costing them points, which the lawsuit and getting all of those deals Meaning that by the end of the year, with and even picking up an injury, Marseille went with their manager even claiming that he was As Marseille were mere months away from winning to the second tier... Only a year after tasting glory for the first But that's exactly when a miracle happened... With Cannes struggling financially, Bordeaux's two of their players, Jean-Francois Daniel the Cannes representatives began naming all and in the words of their manager Rolland I began massacring the president's toes 5 minutes later, for a small check of 3 million Obviously, joining newly promoted Bordeaux from that season, but first of all, at least Well, waiting for him in that locker room alongside him... I'm talking about Cristopher Dugarry and The moment those three began joining forces, coaches at the club said: "When he arrived, but with every single one of us around him, the self belief he needed to reach his potential"... one day: "Bordeaux was precisely what I terms, but in my life... There, one way or another, I became a man"... And by the end of the season, he had done league and had qualified for the UEFA Cup... Even more impressive, after insisting all but actually "a facilitator"... Zidane was Bordeaux's top scorer with 10 league And the next year, though he would have his in the face midway through a match then he revalidate their 4th place finish, meaning it... not only was Zidane handed the league's called up to the French national team for make it as memorable as possible... You see, France had not even made it to the given that they were hosting the next one... And since they did not wanna get embarrassed handed the task of building a new side out that day, with Djorkaeff out of the squad, and in his usually overly humble style, he prepared for the match, so Jacquet left him there was only a little problem... 60 minutes in, they were losing 2 nil to the so in a desperate attempt to try to keep France's sending Zidane in for Martins and the result took the ball, made it past one, then two everyone expected this kid to lose his mind center of the pitch... because his mission later, when he leveled the match with a bullet you could see it in their faces: "We've Regardless, with Zidane struggling with recurring exit in the 2nd round of the UEFA Cup, Bordeaux to 7th place in the table... but as it seemed they were handed a lifeline as UEFA took over place in the UEFA Cup... It was right around that moment that Newcastle Zidane for only 1.2 million pounds, but as that proved to be a gigantic mistake... In the first match of the Intertoto, Zidane after that he got an incredible assist... the counter attack that led to their 4th goal magic...and from there on out, he kept going, but once they were in the final... Zidane added a bit of his usual flair, getting an elbow to the chin... thankfully that didn't ironically, it was right around that time kung fu kicking a fan... and Zidane made sure cement his position as the new star of the decisive qualifier against Hagi's Romania place at the Euros... but hey, if you think Once he had served his ban, the next round score the winning goal... but the goal itself from a goal kick... If there was a Puskas award back then, he'd next to what happened in their quarter final So look, that year AC Milan somehow ended because they had been to the final of the previous three seasons... or if you prefer They were basically undefeatable, you could Stefano's Real Madrid... and to make things they lost the first leg 2 nil... as one newspaper a palette cleanser to be dispatched before around their gums again"... There was no hope that they could make a comeback... In fact guess who had been the last team to League? Di Stefano Real Madrid... yeah... but then The Bordeaux players noticed that the Italians gave it everything they had and 14 minutes In fact, with every passing minute it became best player on the pitch and by the hour mark, Dugarry and only 6 minutes later he nutmegged made the impossible possible... 3 nil for Bordeaux with the entire world watching... And once Zidane assisted Dugarry yet again them in the final, I'm guessing lady luck out, everything went wrong... Zidane and Dugarry missed the first leg of they made it back, first Lizarazu went out The result was a 5 to 1 defeat on aggregate... But regardless, at 25 years of age, that run of how great Zidane was and so, even after him seriously bruised from head to toe, struggling not even think twice, the league's new player even through all of that Zidane got within Still, even with that done, Newcastle once he was "overrated", Sir Alex made the wanna upset Cantona".... but Juventus... dominance so they decided to risk it... and called first? Madame Ellineau... Two years later, he was the FIFA World Player A titles and 2 Champions League finals...