Do you know? I will treat you well on this blind date In the li Blue suit and blue collar brought a good blind date for this introduction. I'll hang up. Bye. Well, here it is I will not chat I said directly appeal I want to share a room tonight. It is better to go to my house and inseminate successfully as soon as possible. What? If the pregnant baby to me I will give you a sum of money as compensation Of course, the more I have, the more I will give you. Don't think you can do whatever you want with money. There are rules in this line Doesn't your coming mean you agree? You sick pervert, who do you think I am? Fuck exposure you give sisters to avoid a ray This kind of abnormal man don't blind date It's only been two days, that's all. Mr. Lee found the woman and lived here. In broad daylight, Lang Lang Gan Kun This pervert still dares to come to see what you want. He even called you a pervert and wronged you. What other itinerary do you have today? Dating the chairman's cat, breeding the cat This kind of thing still needs me to go personally The chairman's favorite is Macey I hope to announce tonight that the insemination will be successful as soon as possible. The more I have, the more I will give you. South Korea, uh-huh, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, the wrong person This woman is unreasonable and online violence against you. The stock price of the company has fallen so much. This time I'm going to have the company's legal staff tell her Tell my boss that the crazy woman's phone was found. I'm going to call No, I have to turn it off quickly. Grandpa, your grandson called you Hmph, what a coincidence What a coincidence I'm a long-distance runner in high school. Let's have a chat Don't push me Brother-in-law, don't do this. My sister is still waiting for you at home. Look who this is, see what you do now Hum Don't worry, your sister won't know, will she? You see, brother-in-law and sister-in-law are really abnormal. Uh, uh... Didn't you play first? Ah. Well, I'm telling you, I 've applied for a top 500 company in the world. Congratulations, eh What about the uncle last time He's not harassing you, is he Why did you mention him New company new weather I'll never meet that pervert again. The president is here. Come on, come on, come on. The president's here. The president is here. Yu Zong Hao He's the president of this company Grandpa, this is my bun I am hungry, where do you live Do you have a family phone? Grandpa, this is also for you You sit here and eat slowly I called the police for a while, the police will come to you. I went to work I'm hungry and thirsty now I'm also hungry Because I saw the president It is said that he has won another billion projects. What are you doing? You don't know, I 've offended the boss before. It's really a pervert, uh uh Nah. Put your face away, I have to send the contract to the customer. Hey! I go to this file for you Thank you, bye bye Er, grandpa, grandpa, didn't I let the police come to you? Why are you still here? I'm going to Shang'an Village to find my wife Then I'll take you there. Get in the car. Is it thirsty? I'll buy you a bottle of water Waiting for the boss this how much money 120 so expensive You're a black shop. This is you. Look how much he took Can you eat that much? I'll buy it, I'll buy it If you don't buy it for me, I won't leave. That line, there are so many delicious Hey. I'll give you a piece of food. Ha, ha, ha. Let's go. Grandpa, here we are Old companion I came back to see you come Look what I brought you I brought you a lot of good food. This is your favorite chicken wings, crispy rice, dried bean curd and marinated eggs. Here comes the old man again You know this grandpa, how many times have you met I heard that his daughter-in-law was buried under this tree for so many years. He comes every year for his daughter-in-law's birthday. Old companion I miss you Do you know where his family lives? Then I don't know Grandpa, please stay at my house for the time being. I'll take you back when I remember where your home is. Hey. Why did the landlord's aunt throw my things out? My son will soon return home This house ah I'm not renting What about you, go somewhere else Hey. Where is such a child? It's okay. Come and stay at my house. You remember where you live This luxury residential area is more than 200,000 yuan per square meter. Grandpa, is this really your home? Oh. Forget it. Grandpa, are your memories out of order again? It cost me more than 100 dollars to take you here by taxi, grandpa. Damn, how did you meet the boss here? Grandpa, where are you going? Me, me, I go to grandpa He's your grandfather Ouch, take him home quickly I'll go first, ah Sun's wife also has to live in our house, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha Thank you for helping my grandpa. You can stay here from now on. It seems that he doesn't remember me How to adjust this chair? The stars look at you, look at me Blinking eyes The secret man hides in the sudden rain unintentionally Love you, right You didn't bite my man Come on in. What is the experience of living with your boss? Wow, this is good Don't move. I'm arranging flowers. That's out-of-print blue and white porcelain from Jingdezhen Drink whatever you want at the bottom. Don't move in the box. What kind of wine is this? Don't touch it Let me see how much it costs, ha, ha, ha Don't worry, I didn't kill you either. Don't forget your cousin's engagement party on the weekend. Yeah, okay, I got it Mom. Everyone eat, eat, eat, eat, ah, ah, 17 ah Your cousin is getting married When will you get married You don't say I was going to get married after the Spring Festival 17. Invitations have been sent out But the day before the wedding, the groom and the bridesmaid had sex. He caught the rape on the spot. Don't mention that scumbag I didn't think I was worthy of 17,17. There is something better in the Ming Dynasty. I'll introduce it to you. I am now in a Fortune 500 company. Pay doubled. Now I just want to concentrate on my career and not rush to get married. These 17 are really good. They are all second cousins. Education is good, where is it? Well, drink it. Keep drinking. Ha ha, then drink, eh Why do you drink so much wine? What's the use of Jiang's job in your top 500 company? I still let people dump ah The bridegroom and the bridesmaid were still married the next day. Now that the twins have been born, why don't you worry about it? Is the mother and daughter To save face, I heard The real machine goes on blind dates everywhere, and no one wants it. If I had a daughter like that. I am ashamed to go out We guess you Why am I not married? They're going to humiliate my mother After my mom's divorce I was raised by a person who got up early and sold breakfast. I really want to be proud of my mother. But why, no matter how hard I try It's like I'm always embarrassing him one day. Afraid they don't do redo I should just love a little bit wrong Super can't shout your love scumbag Obviously you split your leg first, but you said I didn't deserve you. Where am I not worthy of me, more than enough for you Smelly man give me to die That 150000 but he is a scumbag Hit it I made all these This blue and white porcelain is definitely a fake Not really. Is everything you can see in this room true? Can the boss give a discount? Can't you forget what you did last night? Be careful. Do I really not deserve love? You deserve the last love Your only Like a flame that has ignited the hottest to occupy your love Is the meaning of my rush I got drunk and kissed someone who was still my boss. Jiang 17 pack up, do you mean to let me fuck off I asked you to pack your things and travel with me. Mr. Li, you have so much money to stay in such a hotel on business. This is where you live I live in the city center five-star wine The hotel that Mr. Li booked for you before was blocked. No other hotels can be booked. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha I sleep on the bed and you hit the floor. Why do you go to take a bath What are you going to do to me Let you take a bath and wake up This tender must be finished by 3 a.m. No, I can be very sober without taking a bath. decisive battle till dawn Prince I give uh-huh, how did I fall asleep I'll go wash my face and get back to work. No. I have already done Sorry, boss, this car is too busy The bidding will begin soon This can't hit the car at all. Remember, there's actually another way Do you know how to walk? This is my dad's house I grew up here until my parents divorced I remember there's a really good pancake near here. I used to eat when I was a child. I really miss the taste. There are more important things to speed up now than pancakes. Mr. Li, congratulations The tender was successfully cut into hundreds of millions of lists. Thank you Where is this? Uh-huh. Lao Wang pancakes, isn't this the taste of childhood you miss most? Just give you today's resume It's delicious. It's still the same smell. I'm done, I'm done Look at the horns on Dad's head. Ha ha ha ha It turns out that he still has this side, ha, ha, ha Dad, I also want to ride a horse. What kind of horse to ride Are you bored? Are you going to find that little girl who doesn't even want her daughter? Divorce. I ignore me don't go Kiki, don't want dad to go Let go. 17 I always thought he was not a good father. Only today did I find out that he could be a good father. It's just that it's not 17 for me. Let's go, Mr. Li. There's a celebration dinner for you at 8:00. Aren't you going to the banquet hall? This is where Isn't the playground a patient? Now, why don't you want to ride a horse? Some matchmaker's pain can't be undone. But maybe we'll always meet someone He'll help me rewrite The memory of a beautiful 17 Do you like to listen Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, I said the humidifier would believe it Look at his face like a toad, and he's so full of love. Ha ha ha ha ha ha me Today is over Boss, why should I take time off to attend the reunion This time, I must counter attack Why hasn't 17 come yet? He is so ugly that he dare not go out, ha ha ha ha Wow. How did the stone tools become so beautiful? It's the senior sister who hasn't seen you for so many years. How can you be so beautiful? If it weren't for working overtime last night Today's skin condition is better What's the use of seeing our class flowers look good now? Not to be dumped by a man. The fact that you were divorced on your wedding day is in our classmate circle. But it's all spread You can't look at men's eyes. Which is like my husband is already a director when he is only 30 years old Does your husband have any colleagues to introduce to 17 Hey. There really is a suitable candidate to see This is my husband's driver, ha ha ha ha It's not good to introduce your husband's driver to 17. What's wrong with that? He is only 52 years old. Although divorced, with a child But ah, popularity is quite honest Black 17 is more than enough. Uh-huh. Don't need me now Just want to make career Don't keep your mouth shut I am also for your own good, drag on It can become an advanced maternal age. Children born with low IQ The shareholders' meeting will be held immediately. Where did you help me with the last group report? It's under the drawer. Poor thing. I have to work so late. There are men to pay for the trip. Oops. U-turn That's right. Elder martial sister, how did you get here today It's almost 20 years old. Did you come by bus? I really miss the feeling of us taking the bus. Unlike now, can only be my wife's Audi Sorry I'm late Hello everyone I am a 17 man. Oh, isn't this Ferrari I'm sorry Your boyfriend is a new year's talent Ferrari It only costs more than 1000 yuan a day to rent. Who is it If your boyfriend is really rich, let him have a meal. But I have a request I want to be half alone with your rich husband. Of course we have no problem You are very expensive here Don't make your face swollen and fat. Then order any Australian lobster. Nordic salmon soak these seafood for us to have a big portion, another bottle of lafite How much is a bottle of leopard Lafite, do you know Have you ever drunk? Just open your mouth and come Yes, I don't usually drink these. But since everyone likes it Let's have another box. Everyone here can be here after a while. 17, boyfriend is so handsome, girl is good, no money to do for him Hello, boss Your total consumption is 216,000 Can you tell me whether it is a credit card or cash? I'll pay half of it. The rest is for that gentleman. Where do I have so much money? Audi's loan hasn't been repaid yet. Go to Jing Shi Qi to apologize 17. When we went to school, we had a little trouble, watching our classmates. You know, have fun. Not everything can be treated as nothing has happened I'm actually there. Some things you can't forgive Then let's go Alas You don't go ah ah, it's all you black sheep divorce Am I just a little too local is a little but very handsome Today, I'm going to tell my favorite boy that my brother is back with his childhood sweetheart. I went to work Hi. Hello You are the roommate of beginning of winter My name is Zhu Rong Our family and the Lidong family are family friends. Auntie said let me come and stay for two days, later Please take more care Er... You bought chocolate It's a pity that neither Lidong nor I like sweets. Um, hi I bought it and ate it myself. A lot of things have changed since she moved in. Hey. Why are you wearing Shirley's clothes? Li always doesn't like others to touch his things Lidong said I could wear any of her clothes. Do you have time in the evening? Let's watch football, at night. Let me see it at night. Very busy recently The out-of-bounds football is called the defense-breaking ability of out-of-bounds football Do you think he's offside? In fact, this is not offside, eh doesn't it count Don't you see That guard. Wanted to cause offside, but what about Germany's strikers Didn't let him get away with it The linesman didn't raise the flag You don't understand this, I'll pour a glass of water. In fact, ah It doesn't matter if you don't understand Because I like football Beginning of winter, it started from primary school football. Daily small copy rules It became football now. Now think about it. She was pretty cute at the beginning, eh You don't know, do you Lidong has liked me for many years. Even if you are his white moonlight Just because I liked you before doesn't mean I like you now. I can become a football if it's not a football league. Red 17 Tell you a secret The boss asked me to buy a gift today. It is said to be given to the person you like. Why are you telling me this Don't you have a birthday in a few days? He must have told you, no. Let's have dinner tomorrow night Happy Birthday You don't like this gift No. I like it very much, thank you Lidong people Uncle went to work This Lidong gave it to me Now you know the heart of beginning of winter Maybe he's been nice to you. That's because I'm not here, and now I'm back And you, it's worthless When you become a habit, it's a street. I take it as it is 17, go, this home Finally, it's just the two of us. That annoying Finally gone How many times have I told you The two of us can't I only like the 17 beginning of winter You're back Who let you touch my clothes off I don't want brother you don't mean me, OK I'll let you stay here for a few days because your mother and my mother are friends. If you don't have a sense of boundaries and move my things again. You move out of the beginning of winter Don't you like football best? I have two tickets. Let's go watch it this weekend. Who am I going to go to the movies with on the weekend I have been like you, like you for many years I started to learn football because you like football. Make a cheat sheet every day and learn the rules. Why don't you want to watch the stars with me now? Because 17 doesn't like to sympathize with me. I just want to accompany 17 to do what he wants to do. Wow. That's what I gave 17, don't mess around Do not move at any time What are you doing? Lidong You'll regret it I already regret it now I regret not throwing you out sooner I began to like you when you were a student with nothing. My love for you is more pure and true What about the ginger 17 He likes you because you have money If he really likes me because I have money Then I'm glad I'm willing to make more money for him. So you can like me more Lidong, no. Today, I want to be lovelorn with the woman I like. I'll give you a divination, you will meet a handsome boy today. Look at you. Is it so painful to be lovelorn like that? I don't love me, it's braces. Ouch, rogue What are you guessing I took pictures of my wife, and when did my best friend become your wife? This motorcycle is my wife. Do you have any opinion Wow, your wife really looks good I wish you a lasting tie and a good one for a hundred years. Ah. I'm not pulling teeth anymore Does the nurse's tooth extraction hurt so much? Don't worry, we have the best doctor for you. Hello I'm your doctor, Lin Xiaobei You are not insured, thank you Don't move, I'll hurt This is not necessarily I just hurt my hand today. I can't make sure the strength is over. Uh-huh That's it. Uh-huh. You're such a good man Return good for evil, have you remembered all the precautions I said? Especially not drinking. Our clinic. It will give all the children who didn't cry when they pulled their teeth. This reward means you are very brave I'm not a kid Let's go, sisters. Take you to the bar. I can't drink. Who still drinks in the bar now? It's all men. You haven't put down the uncle yet, have you? Oh. You look down on who ah, walk Those crooked melons and cracked dates also deserve to be called handsome boys. Is this a handsome expansion? The signature of the handsome guy in this bar is their boss. The boss is not here today. I'll go to the toilet first. Uh-huh. Who did my little sister see? Is she waiting for my brother? Don't rush away. Don't get me Don't do anything, Mao, this is to bai You are my life to se Why are you again? How can you drink when you 've just had your teeth pulled out? Look, it's just that their drinking will directly stimulate and hurt people. Have you listened carefully? I have listened You when we don't exist ah Then you sit here and recite your will again. Hit me and he will always be on my seven bars and five bars. Ah-oh. I'm coming, brother. Hey, brother, I was wrong. You stop fighting I give you a piece of advice, no. When the doctor communicates with the patient, don't interrupt and stay away from frying. How's it going? It's over, it's over I went out today without a coach. What is the reward for you? Uh-huh. I know, ah How about rewarding you with a boyfriend who is tall and good and can fight? Who am I? River 17 I 've been looking for you for half a day. Jiang 17, I have something to tell you How to say, how to do how to exhaust I mean, your boyfriend You have something to say to me Received and completed the company group building Do all employees have to automatically bring their families with them? Say not export Words make people more infatuated with God You help me Your hug okay What do you think is going on with this Jiang 17 As soon as you heard he called in sick, you kept looking for him and helped him find a doctor As a result, she actually has a boyfriend. Don't say But it's okay to have a boyfriend We can rob 17, 17 boss help, boss The third hot pot I'm sorry. Chestnut always takes the lead Didn't I even plan to do it? I'll buy you a new one Why is my mouth sore? Then I went to buy water Kiki's boyfriend is young and runs fast. Li also went out just now. why did he come back empty-handed? Mr. Bi, you are slow again. Come on, Mr. Li, ah Wait a minute. From now on If either of them loses today, they'll do the women's dance. Yes, I can. This one is quite good. Don't worry, no one but Wang can win four twos. Don't you go Dancing Women's Group Dance Women's Group Dance, Women's Group Dance If any of you can go up and dance for me, your salary will be increased by 30%. I can I can, I can, I come, I come, I come, I come, I come, I come, I come, I come, I give, I give, I give So your boss took the money to settle the punishment Uh-huh. What is this Let me see Your boss is completely lost to Lin Xiaobei I'll leave Lin Xiaobei alone. Let's talk about it when we come back. Thank you for acting with me today Actually, I want to do it with you Thank you for liking me But even if he doesn't like me, I still like him. All right. I'm telling you, he actually likes you too. Boss, change your seat This is the tuyere. What if you catch a cold here? If I don't sit here and catch a cold, I won't get sick. Hello, do you have brown sugar and ginger tea here Do you need to wait for a long time? Yes I just saw Jiangsu seven pull his stomach uncomfortable You take this to her You said that whoever loses today will do the women's dance. Has been uncoordinated I don't want to do a girls' dance. No one can beat me except Wang. After your intersection and no panic There are teenagers who have not fallen. In fact, he didn't lose I only care about the game win or lose He cares only you Hey! Li Dong, do you like me So what do you mean Like me and like others, you take me as a spare tire. I never liked you Then why didn't you come to me after I left You pulled me black I 've been looking for you You found me and you didn't say Because you said you have a boyfriend, I have a boyfriend Then you are still so good to me Because I love you, you Then why can't you be more direct Like flames, raindrops, oxygen occupies your love is the meaning of my rush. The universe orbits a few light years from the galaxy. I love you why can't say for sure I'm in love with your halo with the boss Mr. Li, this is the document for the afternoon meeting. Don't go, boss. I'll deliver the documents. This week is so low Have you learned? actually seduce the president We are already together Why are you still pretending You are my boss How can I work when it is public? I don't want people looking at me funny. My stomach hurts a little. Well, I'm working overtime tonight to get all this away. Why do you give me a job 17, 17, you don't know. His uncle is a big customer of our company I'm talking to the company about hundreds of millions of dollars. The director has to give him three points of face. You bear it Margins are up 13 percentage points this quarter The stock price has doubled, why is it still unhappy to gain a foothold? I have to work overtime I can't go out with you tonight. No need to work overtime. Just now the boss sent a notice that the whole company did not have to work overtime. Let's get out of here Now you can go on a date with me Oops. What do you mean? Sorry, my hand slipped But you this dress It also looks cheap. Why don't you do this? I'll transfer you ten dollars to buy a new one 17, where are you? It's too pompous for you to find me this dress I think it suits you Wow. 17 changed clothes. 17 is so beautiful This dress looks very expensive 17 is so beautiful. The president is talking to a couple of big clients about cooperation involving secrets. No one can go in President Jiang 17 said This document is urgently needed to send you to the conference room. Good. I love you Jiang 17, what are you doing? Didn't I just tell you there was a meeting Can't anyone come in? Didn't you ask me to send the documents to the president? What is this recording? You want to steal company secrets This is not my Chief Lee Now the evidence is conclusive Should such people be fired? It really should be fired. You pack your things and go I don't believe the evidence I believe him He is an uncle who regards work more than anything else, Mr. Li. You believe that people don't believe me My niece's business this 0.2 billion is on hold. I don't think this business should be suspended. It was canceled directly, not just this one. In the future, we will not be sorry for Mr. Li either. I was just reckless Chief Li, it's silly of you to question me for such a small employee. She's not a small employee She is my female heavy I forbid anyone to bully him to recognize this cold fog. What is more tense than the relationship between mother-in-law and daughter-in-law in the world is the relationship between best friends and boyfriends. Frankly, I don't like your girlfriend's best friend. Don't like me, this relationship is the safest What to do if your brother doesn't like ginger 17 Then he's not my brother If Jiang 17 gets old and ugly and bald, will you still love him? If she gets old and ugly and bald That means I didn't take care of her I won't let that happen Uh-huh. How about, our beginning of winter is not bad rhetoric, glib A look is experienced You're too picky Watch love movies, watch horror movies 17 Ah, what do you want to see me I'm hungry, I want to eat It's rare for the three of us to have a meal together. It was our best friend's party. It happened that someone had a big face and a foot in it. Isn't it right to spend the New Year with your girlfriend? Uh-huh. Eat, eat Come and eat in Shen Xin It's okay. You can eat at ease. I have You eat more, I'll go first Hey. Why are you leaving I declare that Lidong has passed the inspection. I can see that he is very kind to you Then why are you a little unhappy I'm afraid your boyfriend is not good to you and will hurt you. I'm afraid he's too good for you. You don't need me anymore Who says I don't need you In the past so many years Every moment I need He's all around me Can you give me back the 3000 yuan I borrowed from you last time? I have to pay my rent We are all male and female friends. It hurts your feelings to mention money, doesn't it It's okay. I just got paid. How much money do you need 3000 5000 the rest of the money to buy yourself more delicious Look at you. You 've lost weight lately. Hey! I am sick, can you come to the hospital? Isn't there a nurse? I won't cure What can I do when I go? Hang up the party You don't have to ask Tears I bear myself Why didn't you tell me when you were sick? I 've made you some porridge. Let's go. I'll help you in and have a drink. Please respect my baby Please try this ice cream. Is it sweet or not? To leave again You don't understand the most is like It happened that you still have the face to eat What to eat to eat You're obviously going to Jiangxi to get married. You still dare to cheat, scumbag What are you doing? Why find a boyfriend? Ha ha It's okay. It's okay. You'll meet better people. Big deal I raise you Don't be sad Now you 've met someone better Even if we don't have so much time to meet later I 'd still be happy for you No way,I will see you every day Where do you have so much time to accompany your best friend and boyfriend? She does This is our house across the door, I also bought You can live for whoever you want. Then in this freeze-frame world Dream back infinite memories Want to see an eye again Only before the dike burst, the first time to meet the boyfriend's family Worried it would be awkward, yo This is your girlfriend ah Why did you come so late to meet your elders for the first time? Aunt, don't worry Just in time, I 'd like to introduce you This is my girlfriend Jiang 17 If he agrees The future will be my wife I chased her for a long time I hope you can cherish her as a family like me. Have a seat. Don't worry, you don't have to worry about anything. Leave it to me. Hey! Well, I know that there is a very important project that needs to be signed in advance. You come with me I'm afraid you're embarrassed here alone If you have something to do, go and do your work. Can we still eat her? It's okay, you go Then I'll go, go You're less than 3000 dollars all over, aren't you? In the future, our Li family will wear decent clothes. I'm sorry. I came directly after work today. You still have a job before you change your clothes. Now I don't earn 20000 yuan a month. It's not about work. But this woman You should get married early and honor your in-laws. Do the housework well. This is serious business Son, we are still young Which use them to serve This is not married into the door yet You speak for her Look how good your in-laws are to you. You'll have to get married early. Give our family more grandchildren. To carry on the family line But ah I think you are less than 1.6 meters After that, the child's genes will be fine with Lidong. If I follow you, huh Don't talk about that. Let's go to dinner, 17 ah Come and eat more, thank you aunt Oh, this girl eats. To have a look You see you gobble this Which like a lady Well, I didn't hear you mention your parents. My parents are divorced and single parents It's no wonder that children from single-parent families are prone to unsound hearts. Not to mention upbringing. If this were me, I wouldn't find such a daughter-in-law. You guys are so open-minded. Have you ever really known a single parent family What made you come to such a conclusion that you still dare to talk back? Is there a tutor No wonder a divorced woman I can't teach a good daughter to shut up. I have to remember Who allows you to say that my mother, you still dare to break chopsticks I am your elder You're not big or small. You're not on the table. You came back in beginning of winter, just this kind of woman who has a mother and no mother can't marry into our Li family. 17 is a child of a single parent family But 17 is the best girl I 've ever met. It's true that your children have fathers and mothers. Why are you in your 30 s and still in the game every three to five? All are relatives. I'm doing this for you guys give you face Call you second aunt To put it bluntly, the relationship between our two families is so far beyond the reach of our family. Son, it's not up to you, an outsider, to intervene. Hey, do you know how to respect your elders? You're the one who walked around me first. The door is over there In the future, our two families Don't meet again 17. I'm sorry. The first time I came home, I was unhappy. 17 Don't take it personally. Sit down and let's go on eating. Will the camera strokes freeze? Time spent on some another Hey. Why did you suddenly come back Didn't you sign the contract? If you are wronged, what is the point of making money for me? Speaking of which, this is the first time I 've seen you out there How do you feel cheated The way you're gentle I like the way you tear people apart I also like the affectionate look I prefer our story is still long You are a distant best friend and a scum boyfriend. But I can't tell what the experience is. The new mobile phone will be a birthday present for you, hum Liang Liang, originally I also wanted to buy you a cell phone. My salary is too low. The screen of the mobile phone has been broken for half a year and I am not willing to repair it brightly. You, wait for the next phone to come out with a new model. I'll definitely buy it for you Your cell phone is broken Oops. It's okay, son. Then this phone is for you No, okay. Liang Liang accompanied me to the toilet. Why did you send her something again? You count since you were with him How much did you pay him Today valentine's day you gave her a pair of new AJ, what did he give you He gave me a necklace She said I ran several stores Looking for this special Valentine's Day promotion that is especially suitable for me Buy milk for small gifts Baby You're here. This necklace. Explain it. Baby, are you not satisfied with this gift? Alas I'm sorry, I 've been really short of money lately. Otherwise, I'll take you to the mall this afternoon. Let's look at another necklace. It's a big deal. I'll eat instant noodles for half a year. Fine, forget it No, I'm fine Baby, I knew you loved me the most You are the most sensible You send him genuine AJ He gave you a gift necklace Can you forgive him? In fact, he is very good to me work hard too Is to earn less How can there be no money But I tell you, you must sell miserably in front of your girlfriend. So he's embarrassed to spend your money. It will be pasted upside down After the wedding bride price money she is embarrassed to speak That's not as good as I talk You disappear and leave Who stopped in situ silently crying This is for my boyfriend, beginning of winter. Hello, hello Baby What took you so long to come back Hey. just now my parents called and said, ah Especially want to see you But before I saw you, I wanted to renovate my house. Where do I have the money now? Didn't you just give out a bonus? Chief Li There is an urgent contract that needs to be signed. Is it the development of 2000000000DP? Is that we go out and say Alas 17, what does your boyfriend do? Southwest Angle Total of Economic Development Zone Which section did you just say? Hi. We are also half connected. Let's make money together As long as you give me a little reminder What do you want me to do in the future I'm all over my brain The high-tech road, you pay attention to walk Hey. Thank you, Mr. Li. You're breaking up with me or I 'd be rich right now With you Are you all right? It's okay. Uh-huh. How did you come Our development area is about to build a garbage dump. The junkyard, right Which means you'll never You guys work together to set me up Did I hear everything I said in the restaurant the other day? So you 've been lying to me What did I lie to you Hey. Don't I just spend you some money Oh. Just because your best friend found a big money, right You women are reality. In fact, girls are not realistic at all. What girls mind is not that you have no money. But your love for her is all calculation A calculating woman like you is the most exassible. Mr. Li, I 've put all my money into it. Borrowed a lot of money outside I beg you to give me a chance to forgive me once Li always depends on your performance Then how can I pay back the money you used to pit my best friend? Li always forgive me Forgive him. Don't forgive us Go never d You said my cousin got married How much money should I have? No matter how much you want, I will add you after you. No, seriously. You go so far, don't I go with you Didn't you have a job that day? Don't worry I'm just going to be a bridesmaid for my cousin. There will be problems. Cousin, it's too hard for you to get married. Get up early in the morning to dress up I didn't sleep much last night. Oh, 17. Thank you for flying so far to be my maid of honor What are you talking about? Isn't it right for you to marry me as a mother's family and come to support you? But cousin, you come to take the family tomorrow. I don't want the wedding to go smoothly for a while. Don't worry Your brother-in-law said, his brothers I won't mess around Uh-huh. Ha ha, there you are All right, all right, get out of the way. Don't spray it. The bride got up at four o'clock and made up. I have to go on stage later. This is not a happy day Right? We big guys have fun, lively lively what's the matter Married once in a lifetime. Who doesn't want to be beautiful? They made it like this, not to say not to mess up Alas Forget it. Forget it. Let's put up with today, oh It's just the bride. Buy a cup of white wine and drink it I won't drink Hurry up on the day of the great joy Big mouth zha, we have come all the way to you drink this not to give face My sister doesn't drink. No, I said, brother-in-law, can you take care of my brother? I 'd like to propose a toast to you. What can you do if you drink it? Yes, drink it I see Is there? 17 You drink so much today, all right Cousin, I'm more worried about you You said you came all the way to get married Brother-in-law is not protecting you at all. Hey. Your brother-in-law doesn't protect me very much. But I don't have much choice at my age. What's wrong at your age? Forget, what bridal chamber My cousin, it's time to go to bed Go, go, go, go, go out Let's go My braised, where are you Don't go too far Now start holding the bride and do 20 squats. I can't do it. Dry up this cup of wine. I Ha ha ha ha ha You guys dare to touch me and find out who I killed. You can do it Then I will go before you How are you? Who would dare to touch his finger I'll let him lose one hand. Who I am the boyfriend of Jiang 17 You guys are playing rascals under the guise of jubilation and don't even do it. Should have a good review of the reconstruction Learn how to respect women. What do you know This is our custom here, alas Who married not so These brothers of mine just want to be lively. My wife doesn't care what you outsiders are meddling. Who says I don't care anymore I don't knot Hmph, no knot Hum You're so old Who else would want an old woman like you to marry a man like you but me? My sister will be angry to become cold Stay away from bad men, will always be young Funding I bought two boxes of plane tickets for you and your sister. I transferred 1 million to Sanya for you. Red All right, wait for Sai to come back first. I'll introduce your sister to a handsome man on the Forbes list. He is so rich. So today's hotel money The money for the banquet And our honeymoon money And your relatives' travel expenses, you have to pay me. Then I am rich But you don't want a cent. You want money. My company has hundreds of people. The legal team can file a lawsuit for you around the clock. Do you want to try With the wind we walk ten thousand times into the arms How many times have I told you Can't eat too much at night, can't digest at all This is good, gastroenteritis I got it. I got it. Say you know, which time to heart I'm already having a hard time Will you only reason with me This is the life you want After splitting up with me, I found such a man, which seems not so good either. Indeed, he never said love me Always reason with me, ah ah I have written a three-day plan, why are all the codes out of order? How many times have I said I have to memorize documents Oh, didn't you forget Since it's work You should make all kinds of preparations to deal with all possible emergencies Oh, stop it Stop it, Rose. Someone will find you. Why do you buy so many express These are to be returned If you buy a pile, you have to return half of it. Why buy online? Because it's cheap Every how many times she told me to tell you Don't be greedy for petty gain, waste time and energy Can you read it? Full of sadness After driving away, how can I not get a car? Clearly know that it is difficult to take a taxi in the morning rush hour, you should get up early. Be accurate in advance I didn't sleep late and didn't get up How many times have I told you If there is something important the next day, you should go to bed earlier. Oh, okay, okay, okay So love to reason Then you go with reason I was wrong to cheat before. But I changed it now I still love you, get back together with me I will be better than him to you You only talk about love. He's not like you Stars until you're perched in every dream You can't buy the right one online. Why don't you come to the store to buy it? You don't know how expensive the store is. Looking at my girlfriend's eyes, she bought him all if she was a little moved. It's okay. Take your time. I wait for you to miss you If one embracing another one day across, where is this? I bought you a house here Don't you always salvage the car in the morning Isolated company near So you can sleep a little longer Like the flame and the king, the two hearts are hot. I want to go to your love, don't pretend How can a man be so good? You're just lying to me My girlfriend gastroenteritis is more serious Please, a few experts. Girlfriend got gastroenteritis Li always let all experts come to consult My girlfriend is really happy. Meteor knows my every mind no, who left his name Like the wind leaves, together raised The hottest occupation of your love, is the meaning of my rush Don't worry, I 've been He never said love me often reason with me But every time he acts, he cares about me, he says to me. I love you Wonders of the universe The scenery is not as good as you, with a smile in my eyes. Years later, I met the father and daughter who abandoned me. Who is your daughter ah When you abandoned me and my mother, did you ever think that I was your daughter? Miss, can I help you? Do you know him I don't know The state of seventeen Pure white clouds lingering in the sky, cancer Where is your loneliness buried deep I didn't order takeout I heard that you young people like to drink milk tea. I bought you a cup It's okay, Dad just wanted 17 small seven 17 is okay. Is it hot? Dad, your hand. Dad, it's okay 17 is okay. Daddy, get you some candy If you are ill and have no money for surgery, you will run for takeout to earn some medicine money. It's time to die Dad realized that the biggest regret in this life is not taking good care of you. Dad, I'm sorry. Alas, Xiao Li I don't want the insurance last time, can I have my money back? Can the supervisor advance the bonus this time? 17. Don't hang out with your dad anymore. I told the security here He's not allowed to show up here Do you think I have such a father is not worthy of you I didn't think so. I didn't do it for your own good. But that's what you do Do you think I am also very ashamed Birds are good enough for you. Do you know where Jiang Guangming is? Does he not know where his family lives Originally If you want to sell something miserable today, I don't care if he wants some money. I didn't think her boyfriend was so rich that he gave it to 1 million. Hey hey hey hey Our son's school district room The future wedding room, and the car Isn't it all gone? You have a daughter, it is still useful. Those regrets are worth mentioning as a dream. The same heart Flowing into the sea of people, waiting for who to meet Someone will already find you Drive away your sadness Incomparable tacit understanding Wait until the dead of night I was abandoned by you twice and replaced me. Don't be afraid, someone will love you. Sowing stars in the haze around you Illuminate your radius tens of thousands of miles The world seems you know Then why did you give him so much money You idiot, didn't you know he was lying to me I'm looking for an assistant to find you. Drive your sadness away from me Then why didn't you tell me Because I don't want to see you sad again Take 1 million to buy a prodigal son Looking back, your father still loves your dream. It's worth it. Why would someone love you? Burying dreams around you will always wake up. More cruel when waking up To illuminate my mother, I have never loved me. They all have new families of their own I have no home at all now Who says you don't have a home, Jiang Shiqing There are dark blue sea waiting for flowers Waiting for all the romantic dreams in the world to run all over the sky fireflies. Fly through your arms Fill the gaps in the years I want to have a second child What are you doing? If you wake up, it's hard enough to have a baby. It's okay You forget, when Eva was born Mama wakes up a dozen times every night. It seems that all our babies sleep till dawn, ah Oh. Baby is good, baby is good Don't cry, don't cry Dad's trying to keep his voice down. Don't make any noise. Mommy's asleep, baby We don't want to be mothers for the good of our children. I don't care if he sneaks in. Dad is a good man. The kids kiss their dad But my baby still likes me. You haven't eaten vegetables in five days Come and have some vegetables, don't eat, don't eat Eat more vegetables to balanced nutrition Mom give you snacks, OK Yeah, yeah favorite mom Ginger 17 You give the child snacks Don't eat stinky dad, hate dad Why do I pay so much? In the end, it's still thankless. It turns out that your husband is taking care of the children in your family. No wonder you don't work hard Hey. Mom, I fell down Didn't the husband ask you to watch the children? Why are you playing games? Only worthless men bring children. Well, 50 million I'll call them first Don't say, I am busy Daughter mother, ah See? Who just said that worthless men bring children? No matter what is promising or nothing Men have to take it with them. It's hard enough for women to have children. Dad, please. Asleep. I told her five bedtime stories She just fell asleep You are an angel husband. Why don't we have another angel baby, wife? Although I like children very much But having one is enough Oops. Is it not good to have one more child with our daughter? Wife You don't know that bringing a baby is much harder than going public. I'm not ready, okay From tomorrow on, I'll take him to pull the hook. I'm back Come back, so early. Today, the child said, you said you missed your father one day, didn't you Then give your father a kiss Who is your king hedi That's how you usually teach kids. Didn't you say it was a secret with your mother? Hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey, that's so handsome I don't think there's anything Look how handsome our brother is good figure Then arrange for you to meet tomorrow Really? Dreaming Why did you have an angel baby? Waiting for you to say hi to me in the future I have to wait for the test of time for you in my heart Evolution becomes dependent to tell you to expect it No legacy