With over 38,000 stores worldwide and nearly $36 revenue. It's one of the most recognizable brands in Starbucks love the long term chart here. We think they Have more control over their own destiny right now than It's Willy Wonka in the in the Cold brew factory. But in recent months, Starbucks isn't looking like the Jim, when we look at The Biggest Loser today, it's It's among the worst performers in the S&amp;P 500. It's down double digits. There's no question that the occasional customer is We have not been able to communicate to them the value They were banking on a consumer that looked a lot like consumer. Uh, not a value seeking consumer. But Starbucks is trying to turn things around. The company is focusing on making that experience that you get your beverage in a timely fashion, and with the baristas. With consumers spending their dollars more carefully towards value be enough for Starbucks to get back on I'm walking into the CNBC offices in midtown York City. I'm about to place an order in the to prep a drink. Starbucks stock price peaked in July of 2021 at over having tanked with the rest of the market during the The start of 2022 led to a sharp decline in its share faced ongoing Covid lockdowns in China and overall But the stock rallied as the company revealed plans to ambitious growth. This chart looks at the company's quarterly earnings Between 2021 and 2023, the company only missed Wall 2024, however, has broken that streak as the company quarter three. Earnings per share did meet Wall Street $130 million. At the end of July, the share price was still down I think what we are seeing is pressures on the wallet It had another issue, though, that was interesting high mobile app and mobile order and pay has become So people would hypothetically kind of put in an then not complete the order. It was ready in just three minutes. I've been at this exact same location before, around minutes, so there's clearly a focus on lowering wait That's because longer wait times have been a problem. Survey data shows that about 25% of Starbucks visitors 16% just two years ago in May. Former Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz took to LinkedIn quarter earnings miss. He stressed the importance of coffee forward experiential, not transactional. Coffee and cold brew is definitely growing. Hot drip is not. The energy drinks are also very competitive, so I But it's tough because then to some extent, Starbucks a little bit of its, uh, cachet as being this coffee It has been a drifting away of people from Starbucks to independent coffee shops, and that's a problem because coffee or beverages. They're just spending less at Starbucks. Competition in the coffee industry is intense. More than half of the market is composed of small coming year. On top of it, Starbucks is contending increasingly price conscious. When you're trying to go from being a third place where of hang out to being a convenience place, well, then and convenience stores, and the uniqueness of your down. Starbucks is considered a quick service restaurant. Research firm Technomic pulled pricing data from a US increases it has seen. Take a look at the cost of a latte at Starbucks in It's up about 25%. Now take a look at the cost of a latte from It's up over 40% during the same time period. While that increase is a lot higher, it's still So more attractive to a price conscious consumer that compete as a value player. Summer 2024. So the start of the fast food value wars with players bundling food and drink deals to incentivize Starbucks got in on the game, too, with the Its breakthrough for Starbucks because Starbucks has Uh, and the, uh, the different kinds of promotion Starbucks. They never had to innovate on that level. But some analysts warn that it may not address the people are concerned about price, they're typically necessarily additional free items. I think it's a very tangled solution to what actually problem. They've sort of really gone round the houses not really focused and doesn't really understand the it's sort of addressing them in a very oblique way. But the coffee giant is not just hurting in the US, Starbucks saw its same store sales decline at an even It was previously the largest coffeehouse chain in chain called Luckin took the country's top spot. It nearly doubled its store count in just a year, locations trailing by nearly 3700 stores. Starbucks is still focusing on opening stores around newer expansion plan for them, and China, which is for the company. There's been some criticism of that in the US, which is its home market, of if it should is pushing ahead with those plans because it's seeing It wants to continue to grow and also improve its Look at the fundamentals of the US business we are We are still the largest player in out-of-home coffee. If you look at some of the metrics that we have into. Tim Hortons said you were not holding shares, sir. I regard them as being seminal companies that are just losing share. They need to get that US business back on a steady They need to get it back into growth and that really positive territory in the minds of investors. Workers on strike. Starbucks and Workers United, a union that represents especially under Howard Schultz, who ended his third It has long been known as a company that offers some of restaurant space. And when Howard Schultz came back, partners. But the catch there is that they were not opted to unionize because Starbucks would say it can't benefits to unionized stores without sitting down and works. Starbucks doesn't really like unions. A lot of coffee shops have wanted to unionize. It's led to great friction between management and There have been some firings, and obviously the unions workers, even those who are not looking to unionize. Former PepsiCo executive Laxman Narasimhan took the He has worked to help remedy the strained The Israel-hamas war is another issue Starbucks has The company has not taken any official stance, but a widespread boycotts that hurt sales in the region and I think that the the current social issue that is in the Middle East from a, you know, a perception I think, you know, as we look into 25, it'll be less I think these kind of boycotts, they tend to be from a minority. It's a shame that Starbucks loses that dipped in the revenue for Starbucks. When analyzing the problems that Starbucks is facing, context. The company generated about $36 billion of 26.5% of the US coffee and snack shop market. For reference, the second largest player was Krispy It's not a business that's in dire straits. It's not a business that suddenly is irrelevant to It's just finding growth a lot more difficult to come So they just need to re-engineer, tweak the should be able to punch out some better numbers. Starbucks quarter three earnings were better than some still declined 3% globally. With all of the initiatives that the company put out When it comes to energy drinks, boba, um, all the disheartening to not see traffic improve that much. The company is streamlining its in-store operations They're doing a few different things. One of them is adding a play caller role to the out and help in certain areas when the store gets busy The baristas also have access to the digital system. But they're able to better control orders as necessary. And then one more thing that they're doing The new siren system that they're in the process of It's not rocket science. It's linear batch flow. The digital apps aren't cutting it. You need more obvious value across the system. It was also reported that activist firm Elliott in recent weeks to help boost its stock price. Thank you. With the company's acknowledgment of an The implementation of systems being put in place to along with easing tensions with the Workers United Only time will tell if the company can regain its It all adds up to a picture of a company that has lost The thing is, of course, you can lose your way fairly It's very rare. People remain lost forever.