This is fun. I have a tape measure in my bag. using an iPhone 11. Where should I put my hands? and this is what's in my bag. This is the the colors available because I have all the the black one, because it's winter and my a bit darker than in summer. And this one Okay, so let's see what's inside. Yeah, there's about this is actually the pen. Have you ever used on top. I will link it down below if you're like paper. So when I write, I take my notes like searchable so I can draw and write on the surface a winner and it changed the way I work, literally. New York because I didn't want to pay daily it and in the afternoon water. This way I make Sunglasses, because I live in the south of France, for a new pair where the glasses are actually a recommendation, let me know in the comments down Tissues. A charger because my phones are old and I have one private one and one professional still using an iPhone 11 because I do not care As long as they're working, I will be using these. that. This is On s'y fera by Zoya Pirzad I hope so I think you might be able to find it in English the bag also so I cannot lose them. This comes let me tell you. It's also the wallet in different colors. I used to have wallets that into it and it was always so heavy. And it's like It's not good. So I created this one, which coins and all the cards I need, and that's just Pens. A gray pencil where I had to tape this but I don't care. It's my favorite so it has blue on one side, red on the other. the point here can draw on digital surfaces a highlighter in rose gold because I like to thinking. Working thinking also works better when so if I keep my hands busy and look at it, my like to think with something to touch. Otherwise it will annoy everyone. So this is the solution. it's more than this because I need at least three canceling headphones, a revolution. I listen to courses when I have time. I listen to the news game-changer. And I even have bigger ones, like travel train stations. Airports are always so loud Stimulation from the outside, if you see what I have the big ones. But for daily business, this Then I have the inside pockets of the bag. drink coffee. And when you arrive somewhere, at least in this part of the world, is coffee. And usually they don't have an alternative and of bringing my own tea. This is Earl Gray. This the evening. And this is afternoon tea, black tea. and then I put my own tea. I even have the teacup, This is fun. I have a tape measure in my when I was studying fashion design in which I needed almost every day and actually kept the supply shop and you're like, &quot;Oh, how thick is Hold my tea. I get my tape measure out. before I try things on and I'm thinking, I literally measure myself from here to the piece of clothing, and, &quot;Oh, don't need People do look at me. Sometimes they ask, &quot;What &quot;Don't mind me. I'm just taking my measurements.&quot; centimeters. I'm all set, no problem. Tape thing to have and more people should have it in And I have another zip pocket inside with more really good one by Clinique. I really like this it's not great, but it does the job when I'm under my videos saying, &quot;Your hair is so uncared you have never seen me with my hair not done. is done, this is done. So I have this with me. I'm not on my period, because somebody that I know so I can help. I have at least one mascara. I always do. This one is MAC. Really nice one. of my videos. So if you've been looking for it, because that's what I got on the life lottery. use a lot of this underneath my lipstick. See, Perfume. Yeah, this perfume actually I have, Molinard. When I went to Grasse, which is I bought this one, which is a roll-on, and right? So it's pretty intense. It's an a hundred years old. But I really like this kind like industrial perfumes that we find nowadays that it gives me a boost. You know what Essential oil of lavender. This is good so you put it here and underneath your nose and or you scratch your skin, this is cleaning because plate or somewhere in the room or on a pillow. is good for everything. My grandpa used to always pocket of his jackets, of his blazers. And so I used to make his own and bottle it. I don't do good. It's &quot;lavande fine&quot;, so the real lavender. bag, by the way, is cow leather, but biodegradable heavy metal. It's tanned with mimosa, with a This exists in three different colors for the which is a very high-quality cotton canvas for which I completely understand. I will put for you if you're interested in this bag. This there is a clutch, there are different formats. me ;-) Victoria's Secret Style. Hi, I'm Justine