- [Chef] So it's 8:00 in the morning. We just received our beautiful Scottish langoustines. So this one is extra large size. They're about 170 grams each. So- and normally we use this So now we just remove the heads, the tail, and we prep them. You can see we just remove the intestine. (upbeat music) - [Marco] Two foie gras, In the morning, normally we do like 75% We need to be quite fast, we'll get ready as much as possible. We're going to blast freeze them quickly. And after for the service, we're going to remove the shell and we're going to use it - [Andrea] So we get ready before service, all our langoustine peeled, and we season just before 8:00. Our citron caviar, fleur de sel and a drizzle of olive oil. So as well the langoustine but you still have a bit of bite. We don't want a puree. - When people come in one of in this one, for them it's they will do that once in their life. So it's a responsibility to make them happy, to give them pleasure. - And after we build our kohlrabi, and then on top you stick one on the outside, you open a little bit. - So it's not about I don't want to compete to be the best. I just want to give pleasure to the guests and to give an emotion to to create a memory that - And we just finish the (upbeat music) - So today we're going So it's going to be for For us chefs, you know, a kind of product that we can have only a couple of months per year. And right now is the season for grouse. - The Wellington is a dish that I think it was seven, eight years ago. We cooked it for a guest. It was a special request in fact, the classic one. - You can see also all the This is proof that it's a shooting it. - From that I had the idea to revisit it a little bit in fact and to cook it with the pigeon the foie gras of course is - So it's 8:30 and we have all the team get ready for lunch service. So our restaurant is full So they need to be very fast in the morning. Here we have Andrea, who is going to show you from the grouse. - So this is a wishbone which for when you're going - So we need to be very careful also with a tweezer we need to go in sideways you see the holes, this is a sign of the shooting. So here you can see there's So we need to be very careful, cleaning it carefully, gently. In the middle we put like a nice rectangle of foie gras, and then we're going to - I believe I've done a The real important step is because especially when you will know if the result is good or not just when is finished. So when you cut it you going see the cooking, The the layers of it, if they are nice and precise. Before that you don't know. So it's kind of a thrill in the beginning, you if it's going to be ok or not. Every single step is important, like even the foie gras must be cut in one single piece and quite uniform. The breast must be put upside down to have the perfect shape. And this is the first step of the building of the Wellington. - So of course it's a bit - So these are mushroom duxelles, around our grouse. And the crepe in this case is of the inside of your Wellington. And this is the last layer before putting the dough, the pastry. - Again outside we have and then Andrea's going to finish with the last step where we're going to fold everything with a nice pastry dough. And then we're going to brush nicely with some egg yolk, a splash of water. This one's going to be like the best Wellington - It's very important at remove all the air, because otherwise when you might create a bubble that is going break the dough and then all the job done is gone. So then after you can have a little trick in case you miss some part for the air. - He's doing a good job. You know why? Because he's Italian it's always the same, He's the master to do that. - So this is almost the last step when you do your egg wash. And then as a last touch, which in this case will made with the same dough. And we're going to finish and in the end, before going in the oven, we will brush it one with the fleur de sal - Even if you are British or if you are from somewhere else it's always fast-reassuring that is a classic of the local cuisine. But they like also to is embracing the local culture. The local guests of course they are proud of some dishes and So of course they're happy - I think maybe it's missing... No, it's good. It's good. (funky music) - Okay. Hold on. Beautiful, fresh, sardines. So, so this one is going to be for one of our main these fresh sardines, very simple, with lemon juice, olive Pietro's a master of cleaning sardines and normally he does at least - This way we cut the main bones, all the guts, everything's I think like a hundred, Because there are like so let's say roughly 30 per line. Yeah, a hundred bones, let's say. - So here we're going to cook our octopus or one of our center dishes which we normally serve Here we have a nice and beautiful octopus. This one is about four kilos. Whenever I poach it first, I go inside with all the tentacles slowly so they get a nice shape, a nice and curly kind of spiral. You see how they curl nicely? We're going to cook it for about... it is going to be between Okay, perfect. So our octopus is ready to cool down. (intense music) We brush it with some chipotle sauce, chipotle paste mixed with And then we'll finish roasting it very gently on the barbecue. (intense music) Guys do we have the garnish - I wanted to finish with the flambe with the special things in the southwest of France. In fact, in the incandescent of of lardo and, and and give of course a smoke So in fact the plate will and at the table we will cut the octopus and plate it. We will put the in front of the guest the piece of octopus close to the garish. And then after we pour the sauce and the idea of course will come like that at the table. That's one of the most - So here we have Timothee, So now he's going to prep this Guinea fowl It's coming from France. We have one of our trusted suppliers. Basically he'll remove the - Okay, on this one there is a few, we say difficulties first First, when we remove the legs we try to keep as much skin as possible, so when we cook it inside the oven, the fats don't go out. - So today is a very busy day for us because the restaurant we're doing some new dishes, - Creating a dish is, I I would like them to be seasonal for sure, and if it's possible to be local, yeah. And I start to think about the new dish around the product that I have chosen. I put all the products around that. And also, okay what I want is to have very coming from me, a lot So I put all my sensibility - So this one is the with the brioche, foie So basically now what we between the skin and So when we are putting be very delicate to not damage the skin. Okay when the skin is open, our fats under, basically we did this one and we are doing a new one today for her because we had to change one - Sometimes to make a like two or three weeks. We do several tests, several trials. - Of course it's about my sensibility it's about what I feel, but it's also about respecting some tastes, So for example, this guinea fowl, I really wanted to introduce beer at some stage in one And this is what we will try to do in this dish with the guinea fowl today. - After it's tightened, the fats cannot go out off the breast, and all the breast is so it will be nice and moist. - Once I have thought about we go around the table and then I explain and Marco can interfere also and say, &quot;Okay, but what about - So we put our Guinea fowl in the oven for a few minutes, now I'm going to just quickly So we're still missing So we're going to finish the cooking and then later I'm going to plate it and we're going to do - And you know, Marco worked with me since eight years now I think, So he knows me and he We work a lot on on testing because we want the balance, the texture, So that's the way I love to cook. - Okay, so we'll try to So I'm going to plate some with a beer reduction and So we have to rush it a bit because Elaine is going - I have one hour. So yesterday, in fact what I which was not smooth for me, not gourmand, and also there was a lack - We need to try to get a bit more color on the skin maybe. - Yeah So the meat is much more tender. - Yeah - So during the cooking - Yeah - And no, I think... - It's better? - Ah yeah - I think we need to try to get Maybe higher temperature when we start and after we put it down. - I do the tasting and (upbeat music) - So we still have a two hour time with service lunch service. So we see the guys that start to organize a little bit Here we have the water boiling ready for the lobster, which we This one's going to be for for the lobster with Tandoori spices. Hopefully the sardines are So we'll check. So the first table is in, so we're going to start with our canapes. So normally our canapes are In this case we use a we match it with some lardo and after we have this with some foie gras parfait, Please come in. Come in. Thank you Jose. Hey guys we have some - Oui. - So as you can see we or canapes sections. So normally we have one because it takes quite and we need to be very like the first course we like to give a little Service please. One new check, two guests. There's going to be one carrot, two lobster and one grouse to finish. Think we're going to do - Yeah. Where are they from? - This one's from Lorraine. - From Lorraine? - Yeah. - So they arrived this morning? - Yeah, just now. - So, okay, so now we have a little bit of work to wash them, to clean them. - Beautiful. - So wait until they get a So here we're dressing our ceps. So basically with some puffed quinoa, a little bit of puffed spelt. Yesterday basically we did the same dish but today we changed the sauce, Beause yesterday it was So it is going to be served some smoked, burnt hay. So today, we intensify the flavor of the the burned hay to sauce. And let's see what Helene's going to say. Timo, you ready with lobster? - Let's go. - I need straight away two grouse. - Let's go, let's go. So this one's the garnish of the plate. On the side, you can see to the hay all around. We slightly smoke the lobster - As you can see it's to do some tastings during service because the kitchen is very busy. Everyone's moving around, So let's go and see what So we have the sunchoke pepper leaves, - Yeah. And just under... - A little bit of ceps puree. (silverware clattering) - Did you put a little bit - A little bit? No. Whipped cream? You think like, to make (penseful music) - I think I would put a I'm just, yeah, because I'm - That a guest gets a bite - Yeah, yeah. So it's necessary. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - So if we have it on the Okay. So, but we keep the two, we keep the quenelle on the side. - No problem. - Okay. - Okay. Thank you. - [speaking French] Allez, one scallop up. - One minute. - Hey, can I have lobster please? Love it. Go, two lobster tasting. - So when I opened this so there was a lot of - Hey gentlemen, it's away, two foie gras. - This restaurant is my second home. I have two homes, in one in London. So I worked so hard doing I say, okay, it's a I feel myself, and it's so important - Table one guys. - Oui. No, that's fine. With everything's going on. - I really think that we the team, because Marco of the restaurant. They embraced it like it So that, that, that's very important - Attention please, mister. Now we finish with a touch of duck fat to make it shiny and we finish with fleur de sel. This is the signature scallop - For me, it's not about technique, of course you must have the technique, but if you have the technique and the emotion, something is missing. I want people to leave with a memory. I think there is nothing worse than a guest that doesn't remember what what he has eaten or what So I want to create