Summer 1942. The French made themselves dizzy Simone de Beauvoir writes, &quot;From this confusion, &quot;and to savor their glow in spite Journalist and historian Patrick Buisson His book, The Erotic Years, recounts an occupation In all periods when death is present, Life resists death. It resists while bombs fall because danger and fear are all around. During wartime, sexual behavior Unconventional behavior through exclusive interviews filmed essentially by Germans. They will bring to life in which wartime touches every individual Like these women severely punished for sleeping with the German enemy. It all begins one day in June 1940. An unforgettable day for Gisele Guillemot, a young Norman factory worker It was appalling an entire horde of handsome, on brand-new motorcycles. It was impressive, and it was also demotivating. I remember thinking, This is not possible. We'll never make it On June 14th, For several days, Parisians bitterly contemplate Gossip columnist Crystal Huber &quot;The troops make &quot;with their shiny steel helmets&quot; &quot;and their well-appointed tanks.&quot; The housewives on Avenue Kleber are amazed at the sight who looked like A magnificent remembered by Max Bayer, a Wehrmacht veteran. We were actually quite proud We felt good. We were required to be even more spotless That was the order, that we present ourselves well. The body has visibility This is largely due to the meaning and totalitarian fascist regimes. Making the young male body and vitality of the nation. Unquestionably, These are young, victorious men. They give off a charisma and arouse the sensibility Young Benoite Groult, a future writer, saw the effects this prestige had Yes, they were handsome, It's amazing the aura victory can give. At the time, they seemed beautiful and horrible but we were raised We weren't allowed We remembered our own soldiers running toward the south, and then the defeat, The French army was defeated in June 1940, even though a lot of them fought well, and 100,000 of them This gave them the image of an army against the German army. The sight of hundreds of thousands by a few German soldiers The Frenchmen failed in their mission One of the oldest metaphors for war and invasion is to personify the victor The victor has male features, This allegory will serve as a backdrop Collaboration. This is the path imposed upon Petain before becoming his political choice. The most optimistic believe to allow the resistance However, the sad reality is powerlessness before a merciless armistice and humiliated. The Wehrmacht occupies now divided into two zones The French cannot cross this line the precious Ausweis or Laissez-passer. Against all expectations, put the country back together. It is in their interest of the Battle of France and come to the aid lost on the roads of the exodus. They make themselves so useful that Simone de Beauvoir &quot;The fact is that they were as nice &quot;thoughtful, discreet, Their orders are to help especially women and children. Abandoned populations This is a well-known poster holding a child in his arms. Another child is at the bottom giving the German soldier a trusting look. This soldier is intended to replace, the weak French soldier during the Battle of France. At the time of the Exodus, my parents believed we would be raped. This is the reputation the Germans had They put us on a train, like two packages. We were 14 and 18 years old. We went to my grandparent's house After we were there for three months, When I was young, I really did think that the occupation as far as I could see. Now, we did really think First of all, this came as a surprise because there were precedents when the Prussian army behaved toward the civilian population. Notably, the rape of women played a part This is the third time in 70 years that the Germans have come This time, unlike previous episodes, there are very strict orders Soldiers who commit rape Significantly fewer rapes were committed than in 1914 and 1870. The Germans settled in as masters. They dominate Paris. The unfulfilled dream A dense network of military barracks A soldier writes in the guest book &quot;It feels just like home.&quot; &quot;Many thanks.&quot; The Germans are everywhere, Officers make themselves at home and look around their property. They can almost forget about the war. A well-considered propaganda campaign The occupying army wants order with the occupied population. A future dramatist, Pierre Barillet, We had 35 Germans in the house, and I must say that they were, There was a Feldwebel, a sergeant, who was quite severe We had no damage whatsoever A charm offensive goes into full swing. On arrival, the German army gives concerts Intelligence service records but Benoite Groult's family to the memory of the First World War My father would have never forgiven us It was our way of resisting, even though it was quite feminine My father was still very attached He even still called them Boche, My sister and I didn't care We had decided to close the door Unlike Benoite Groult, but for some, the ice begins to melt. Fear gives way to curiosity, and sometimes, France was wonderful and I hardly ever saw any violence I had quite good relationships Even though it's something generally speaking, The advantageous exchange rate the means of a millionaire. The good life can begin. They are all as happy as God in France. This is a German saying from the 1920s: &quot;Is God French?&quot; Live like God in France. I always said because it's the richest country culturally, and in terms of quality of life. France invented the art of living, the art of living You might call it feminine: For the German soldiers, the summer of 1940 Their main fantasy is French women, especially beautiful Parisian women. &quot;They are the absolute quintessence, &quot;There's no doubt about it.&quot; Gushes Private Hartlaub The soldiers play at being tourists, where an infantryman of the 30th Division We see things on stage not even in our wildest fantasies. For some, Even these SS, compromised their image as the elite German staff officers and worried of their troops. Brothels are commandeered Soldiers are given a list Here, they create personal memories and even film their relationships They can also see French pornography salvaged in 1940 by a baker from Dachau. He will take them home to Germany with him To prevent any contamination, Wehrmacht doctors Here, at One-Two-Two, Its Madame remembers. &quot;The brothels of France &quot;than when the Germans were here.&quot; &quot;One day, they made all night-women &quot;but the doctor &quot;Apparently, the earlobes of Jewish women &quot;and they didn't want their men In 1940, their racial obsession led them to ruin by transforming it into a brothel. [French spoken audio] The Germans want to provide their soldiers and to offer women with whom They do this There are none in Germany, with new brothels opening up. As hygiene is an obsession they will provide prophylactic devices They do this are immobilized men, and this leads to fewer men in combat. There are even prostitute identity cards with the name of the girl, room number, and a list of German soldiers This provides a way The German army wants to be able down to the brothel If a girl is ill she can be brought It's like this young prostitute in Tours who formally agrees with German soldiers. &quot;Infecting a member of the German army &quot;would make me guilty &quot;and also of an act of sabotage The Vichy government, officially recognizes these brothels and somehow creates Like the Germans, they want to channel excesses Petain engages the French aimed at saving them from decadence. His priority is the young. They must give the appearance and regain their status Youth camps are created. Here, they learn the values those of work, family, and fatherland, the model of the Vichy regime. Life in the great outdoors are meant to cleanse the body and spirit Despite all of this, Petain leads an unconventional life He has no acknowledged children, and reputed to appreciate His new moral order reflects Women have no civil rights. A woman must have her husband's signature They are minors in every sense: civic minors, A 25-year-old would turn into an old maid Everyone said, &quot;Get married.&quot; It was an obligation. My mother still had her fashion house, so she made nurses capes. Her customers would ask me, Then she'd sadly say, It was her way of saying until she finds Prince Charming. When a female civil servant got married, Marriage was considered It's not easy to believe, but we were affected by this moral code. I was at any rate. Vichy dreams of sending women and glorifies motherhood. Women who give birth to twins at a time when sugar These babies are also indispensable and abortion The last woman guillotined in France She was a laundress Abortion was illegal, but that didn't mean because it was very common I had friends, myself included, who had four, five, Upper-class women, poor women, What else could they do? The first time I was with a doctor he told me, &quot;Not a sound.&quot; &quot;Don't cry out as there are other patients &quot;I'll do it for you.&quot; &quot;You're barely a month pregnant. &quot;It'll take 20 minutes.&quot; You drink a small glass of cognac Well... I went through it because I wanted it. The propaganda proclaims has no place in society. She is useless. The state fabricates future mothers in places Here, they learn how to become the Vichy ideal. There was a time &quot;I can't stand intelligent girls.&quot; That's how they thought. The misogyny was horrible. They sent me for rumba lessons It's humiliating. That's why I thought I'd be left in peace about the way I walked. The French are bombarded The state makes prudery a national virtue and even tries to ban wearing of shorts While Vichy is prudish, A joke circulates. A policeman gives a ticket &quot;Didn't you know She says, Despite shortages and rationing, Requisitioned by the Germans, wool, leather, and silk A multitude of tricks are used With their bare legs, women reveal a new kind of sensuality &quot;Staying stylish is everything,&quot; a young starlet of the day. Yes, I was always stylish. Perhaps I was in need. It wasn't revenge. A need to... How can I put this? A need to dress up, I don't know. It's because fashion is also a way I remember one day in the Metro, and Madame Renee Passeur that was like newspaper print. It was shaped like an enormous cabbage I saw a group of German soldiers Madame Renee Passeur, &quot;Look at those idiots.&quot; &quot;At least they won't be Women come into their own. Some alter and wear the civilian trousers held prisoner in Germany because, from now on, and assume the responsibilities The war on the Eastern Front Goring warns, &quot;Tell the French factories &quot;they will have nothing on their plates.&quot; &quot;I will send &quot;The Russians have had their fill.&quot; Faced with a terrorizing regime, like Gisele Guillemot. I had a choice. I either became a frivolous young woman, like so many who went because there was nothing else to do. It's because wherever you worked you were still working for the Germans. Alternatively, I did what I wanted to do, I would finally do something so I chose the resistance. When we went to Paris, There was a beautiful cherry tree We said, &quot;Let's eat some cherries.&quot; When we got back, while we were under the cherry tree. There we were with two flat tires. We had to repair our two tires The Germans aren't as happy Attacks on them increase, and one of their fears is falling prey As a part of the resistance, women and active female members to acquire information The Wehrmacht high command in Paris observes that the first ten attacks involved cadets, officers, or enlisted men who all had a relationship Moreover, the fact of being creates routine behavior. They arranged to meet in the same places They meet up with their girls Don't you know the story of Mata Hari? It wasn't the same period, There were girls who slept with Germans Of course! It was a good thing, because I think The best way was to get involved an officer or an important officer and then... However, that wasn't my job, but there were some women The charm offensive is over. Relations between the occupier French women will pay dearly The young soldiers who must leave have nothing left to lose. Some lose control with abominable complacency. Like in the village of Moulins, where Denis Barbier, is raped and strangled in her school on April 1st, 1941. A suffocating atmosphere spreads condemned to fear and hunger. Very few can afford to pay someone The shops are nearly empty, but people still line up for hours We were swept into this life We stood in line if not two. I had a little folding chair in my pocket. If we saw a sign in a shop window &quot;Ration tickets honored today,&quot; I always carried a book. We waited in line for as little We chose boyfriends for the same reasons It was because he was a farmer's son. He studied Latin at university with me, I thought, it meant we would visit farms It's hard to imagine Later, I married a man with tuberculosis, It was like a treasure. It's hard to imagine the hunger. It wasn't as bad as it was for prisoners, The cornbread We chose a country boy we would have to gather hay, but at least There'd be bacon, because after a few years, We became a bit obsessed. Vichy is in a fundamental contradiction. The cost of the occupation Vichy doesn't have the means that the French state Especially the wives who are the hardest hit They earned a miserable allowance, the equivalent Hardship throws many of them For these women, occasional prostitution When there is no other source of survival then the body becomes an object of trade. This is called prostitution. It's like another form of currency. What makes it different is that it never runs out. It can be used again and again. By resorting to occasional prostitution, the wife of a prisoner of war the equivalent given to her by the French state. These are often poor girls. They are rarely girls from rich families. They were girls without money. Girls who perhaps saw a way who would give them money A little money each month, not much. A minority of women either with French men This will be very dramatic who will most often discover these affairs because of denunciation letters These abject denunciations that his wife is living with a German and that his wife is pregnant Denunciations also occurred in Germany suspected of having affairs especially those working on farms. These women are also alone. For three years, These couples are at great risk. Prisoners can be condemned to death. German women can face public head shaving, deportation to the Ravensbruck for having sullied the German race. Thousands of children are born Most prisoners live in crowded conditions Their only intimacy lies in their letters, long-awaited but sometimes dreaded. For four years, the near 800,000 married prisoners of war They are held prisoner in Germany and have been forced These women are alone The obsession &quot;Will she be faithful to me?&quot; Writer Frances O'Brien remembers. &quot;I saw men torn apart &quot;underneath the words &quot;or a family coming apart.&quot; Most often, these letters expressed A wife writes to her husband, &quot;At night, I no longer feel the softness &quot;Your body was so warm,&quot; &quot;and today I am so cold.&quot; To escape boredom, They even dress up like women to give their comrades To help them keep up their morale, like Danielle Darrieux, Vivian Romance, and Suzy Delair, Goebbels plans to use these actors of a French-German rapprochement. He takes special care of these superstars, inviting them upon their return at 52 Avenue des Champs-Elysees. Later, Vivian Romance &quot;We were helping Danielle Darrieux,&quot; &quot;who did everything she could &quot;a Dominican diplomat, Six months later, Porfirio is released She will stop making films unlike her friend Yvette Lebon, [French spoken audio] I did three plays with Sacha Guitry. I did Desiree Clary. I did La Romance De Paris You see, the entire occupation Indifferent to politics, Yvette Lebon becomes the mistress Jean Luchaire. He makes her the Venus in which an article offers these details: five feet four, More than ever, these carefree starlets who come to the darkened theaters It's the golden age of French cinema and for its stars, Here, Yvette Lebon enjoys the races and her lover's daughter, I don't want to be malicious, but all the actors who performed There was a kind of heedlessness. I don't know because we were a bit privileged. There were more provisions for a lot of things. [French spoken audio] Trenet arranged to have food At his home, and there were cakes He invited all his little band As soon as you became famous, For most people, there was no food. I remember somebody directing me on the venue de la Grande Armee, and behind the shop in a room, you could get eggs and a few vegetables. They even had croissants. These aren't the only treats in store. The charming starlet then catches who can refuse her nothing. I used to sleep in an apartment In the morning, when I woke up, &quot;Sacha, I'm awake.&quot; Then he'd say, &quot;What would you like?&quot; His servants would cross carrying my breakfast to the apartment. These meals are the epitome while France is starving to death. After a dinner at the Tour d'Argent, German officer Ernst Junger &quot;In times such as these,&quot; &quot;eating a good, hearty meal The best restaurants benefit and their patronage explodes. Yes, Maxim was full to the rafters. I'm ashamed to admit it today. We didn't realize how privileged we were. There was champagne. We could have anything we wanted. It's because the German authorities in maintaining The City of Lights after the horrors of the Eastern Front. Officers have at their disposition Crowds packed the cabarets and nightclubs, These festivities allow the officers to rub elbows with Parisian high society. Some stars go so far like Arletty. Arletty behaves like a modern woman. She's attracted to both men and women. During this period of the occupation, she is attracted to a German officer He is mildly Nazi, very German, She falls under the spell of this man, She will make the mistake a few evenings in Paris. She was the screen actress of the down-to-earth French girl. Arletty is the cheeky She is insolent. She is freedom. The people won't accept that the actress, who most embodies could compromise herself She was very arrogant toward the public. When she was booed, she'd say, &quot;I see that the public She didn't care what people thought, and Josee Laval would go She'd sink down in the seat to avoid the audience It was a very sad experience for her. Some stars may have slept hoping to advance their careers Not Arletty. Alfred Greven, makes her a golden offer She will refuse. She wants to remain in control of her work All in all, and concerning Cesarine, This is not the only case The actress who makes the biggest scandal Mireille Balin embodies the femme fatale because of her roles in successful films or Pepe le Moko with Jean Gabin. She plays seductive women of Jean Gabin in these film. She is often cast in the role of the slut. During her occupation, she becomes involved She doesn't behave She presents herself and spends a lot of money This image of the actress will combine The two images resonate together The same can be said of Ginette Leclerc. She doesn't get involved but Alfred Greven to open an all-night cabaret Her French lover will manage the business, but the fact that she gets will label her as a collaborator. The problem is that her cabaret for members of the Gestapo Nightlife businesses lack for nothing, especially the most elegant like the Sphinx or the Chabernet. These establishments from the Wehrmacht purchasing officers, like Joseph Genovese, an ex-ragman who becomes a millionaire and the resistance. With the benediction of the Gestapo, Monsieur Joseph Owners of these establishments receiving fabric points to change sheets, and gasoline for transportation. There is no limit to their supplies According to the madame of One-Two-Two, guests would consume 40, 50, These luxury brothels The madame of the One-Two-Two also writes: &quot;The people who came In the meantime, they wanted to have Many French celebrate The reality is that of the occupation. Fear and soon the intense pressure As more and more German officers repression will increase, All this creates a climate of fear When the world danger, images of death, fear, especially the survival instinct and to look for release that hems you in and that surrounds you. Moreover, &quot;We were never so free Especially the young, to stay out with friends until dawn. Curfew is an infallible excuse In troubled times, traditional authority I started to run wild We were free. We stopped coming home at curfew, My parents lived in constant fear. It's true that when I wasn't home they were panic-stricken. It was an expression of the recklessness I was 16. I was striking out on my own. I earned a freedom I had a lot of freedom. I went out to see my friends. It was a time when I freed myself It wasn't always easy, It was different. It was a new life. The most emancipated were the Zissou, with their love of swing This displeased both the resistance For some, protest will lead to resistance. At 19, Gisele Guillemot will be initiated She writes, &quot;No one knows about my secret activities.&quot; &quot;My mother is convinced &quot;With all the miles I put on my bicycle,&quot; &quot;she must imagine that I have lovers I had a lot of fun. I should say that from a very young age. I always had problems with my mother. Whenever I could, I gave her a hard time. I knew that my joining the resistance Perhaps I'm exaggerating, but it was important to me Well, I could never have dreamed Parental authority takes a beating because many families The father is absent. The mother is the only parent left The young adolescents take advantage resulting from the war and the occupation. They have a new kind of freedom and that they did not have in peacetime. This freedom even encourages as witnessed by Pierre Barriere. [French spoken audio] It was in the home of a famous decorator who had a very beautiful apartment The guests had stayed late It was a circle of musicians, It was, let's say, an artistic, Then all of a sudden, the doorbell rang, and a very elegant, A charming young German soldier Apparently, he knew the master The master of the house knew We watched them walk They didn't talk to anyone or sit down. They just crossed the living room When we saw them pass, a few knowing smiles went around the room. Then, an hour later, we saw them reappear and leave. I don't know if he had a pass because he left with the German soldier. Apparently, the decorator had offered his hospitality to come over and have sex. France was considered a haven because of the legal tolerance it offered. However, this did not mean Homosexuals were only accepted and in the upper middle class. There was a gap and the legal tolerance concerning homosexuality Some Frenchmen are drawn Close living conditions and camaraderie Especially since, from the very beginning, the Nazis have cultivated a hypervirile, that can sometimes lead to confusion. At the start of National Socialism, there was a battalion of stormtroopers who is known to be homosexual. During this period, part of the left, will theorize about a connection The idea developed in some circles When the Germans arrive, this leads to the universal belief, that they are tolerant which is not at all true. The confusion is such who is both Jewish and homosexual, He even affirms, &quot;I'm a pederast.&quot; The reality is that for the Nazis, They even interrupt the filming of Mermoz Robert Hugues-Lambert, probably because of his liaison He will be deported and die on March 7th, 1945. He was arrested a few weeks There were still a few more scenes and Henri Vidal but they still needed Lambert's voice. He was being held The film crew managed to have Lambert from the other side Lambert was then deported It's just incredible with the prisoner. In spite of everything, homosexuals in France and systematic persecution. A handful of intellectual collaborators, like the Minister of Education, openly admire He is in love with the uniform. He is in love with the militia. He thinks the boys and the militia He speaks in these terms. He is in a kind of love-besotted surrender be they French or German. The resistance begins Songwriters who sympathize call him La Belle Bonnard. He embodies the lack of virility shown by the members of the French state To collaborate with Germany and to the resistance, Abel Bonnard whose sexual orientation His homosexuality is blamed when it is his ideological choices Summer 1943. A wave of young recruits arrived to build the Atlantic Wall, Hundreds of thousands of Germans This creates a paradoxical situation. There is an imbalance Between the years of 1940 and 1944, women of childbearing age outnumbered men The men are absent voluntary workers, or conscripted This maintains an imbalance of numbers The demand is out of balance and on the sexual market, and there are not enough French men In terms of personal development, and it was never ending. It was like we were wearing blinders, like we were under house arrest Not everyone can avoid because they have become The Field Command recruited tens of thousands of women who went to work for the German Army. These women were the most exposed because they were working for Germans There were a lot of Germans and the women saw them every day. After a while, their eyes would meet, Those years were so empty. There were so few French men, What the Germans most dreaded were relationships or prostitution. Relationships that officers and soldiers were a sort of sentimental collaboration, because they could not control this. This also brought on a loss of prestige. Munter Lund made this observation. &quot;We admired the German soldiers &quot;in June 1940.&quot; They are much less admirable, when they are next to French women, Here, the prestige of the victor and the balance of power can become inversed. This is interesting, who will find This offers emancipation. Many high school girls of German officers and soldiers. In many provincial cities, there will be scandals going out with girls Francine is one of these young girls. She finds love on her way to school. His name is Willy Uncg, and he is a 43-year-old German soldier. His battalion is regulated like repairing trucks or cleaning tanks. I wasn't yet 16. I used to walk to high school. I would pass in front of his garage and in the evening when I came home. In the evening, He would say, &quot;Hello, miss,&quot; &quot;would you like I would say, Then one Sunday I went to the beach, and he was there with some young girls Everyone was swimming, but I was sitting on the stairs He came to me, and he said, I said, &quot;I don't know how to swim.&quot; &quot;Come with me, I'll teach you.&quot; Three Sundays went by. It was summer. I was going to learn to swim, but I'm 84 years old, In the very beginning, he was kind because he'd walk with me There were lots of people when the weather was fine. Then in the winter, I'd go to his place and drink tea, When he came to my house, We would go into the courtyard and talk. It was nice, It was nice. My father allowed him I never thought that I would get involved Then one day at home, I felt faint. Francine is pregnant. With the help of her parents, she leaves home She is not alone in hiding her pregnancy. As many as 200,000 children between French women and German men. Unintentionally, Vichy makes life easier for these women Improving the birth rate Three of us were very young women. Many of the women were all alone: There were also women and those women Francine categorically refuses The problem is that to everyone else, so its origins must be kept secret. For months, no one saw the child was next to the door and the store It was a garage that had been transformed There was a door, but it was closed. No one could see what was happening and in our courtyard. Then one day, and one of them said to my mother, &quot;That child you have there, whose is it?&quot; My mother answered, &quot;Well, it's mine.&quot; Really? At your age?&quot; My mother didn't answer, and no one asked about it again. The silence is heavy with reproach. The Nazis and the militia Allied bombings have resumed, Under these conditions, a French woman in love with a German There was a denial of romantic love. They wanted to believe for a French woman They believed all Germans were monsters, even though they weren't all Nazis. They were Germans, and they were, after all, only men. They weren't all torturers. They weren't all Nazis, even if Germany had supported They began to deny the existence in the history of humanity, and in all romantic literature, the final motivating force Can love exist in spite of borders They believe that love could not exist and a girl who slept with a German venality, or self-interest. There were women who committed suicide when the German officers These women weren't acting It wasn't like they were named ambassadors They had real love affairs. It's a pity, I know, but I could never blame them. No, never. It's too easy to say she's guilty and deserves What does the future hold for the child of a German father conceived in the spring of 1944? Nothing. Any reasonable woman or man This proves that these love affairs of any political context. When the Germans left, Willy sent me a letter telling me, &quot;We are pulling out.&quot; &quot;I don't know where we will end up. At the end of his letter, he writes, &quot;I wish I could kiss you forever, Then one day his letters stopped, and she has never recovered. I have memories. I'll never forget. I still can't think about it. No, I can't think about it without crying. He was my first love. These French women are torn apart by the war. They are not alone. For many women, Like Gisele Guillemot, She was also a member of the resistance. I had a childhood sweetheart. When we moved into our factory housing, there was a little boy with big glasses I watched him from the window, so I went down to the courtyard, He said that we're going to be friends. We did become friends, Unfortunately, he was seriously wounded at a meeting with resistance fighters. He had been denounced, and there was a manhunt. He wasn't captured, and died of his wounds. That was my first heartbreak. She writes: &quot;The world is falling apart around me.&quot; &quot;My friend, Marcel, &quot;We made love hurriedly &quot;but we promised each other &quot;I wander in tears,&quot; &quot;lost in the immense capital.&quot; &quot;I don't even have the money Benoite Gould loses her first husband, a victim of tuberculosis He had planned to travel across Spain He had hematopoiesis He was spitting up blood His father told him he would not leave, Then he came back for our wedding, and he got much worse Not even in the sanitarium. I sent him powdered milk along with an egg a week, and I thought We had nothing to eat. There was no heat, Then he had an operation that went badly, He was dead at 24. Penicillin arrived with the Americans. All of France wasn't liberated yet, but my father-in-law, managed to find some Americans. He said, &quot;Give me some penicillin.&quot; &quot;My son is dying.&quot; He took the penicillin to the sanitarium, but it was too late. It didn't make any difference. Summer 1944. The Germans will soon lose the war. The future lies with the allies For the French, However, sometimes, All those who took pleasure Those who ate well when France was hungry. Those who made love with the occupier Those who had heat when France was cold. Those who smoked cigarettes when all these products were inaccessible At the liberation, will take revenge upon the French Essentially, To be French meant that you suffered, went without Those who did not endure this suffering from the Horizontal Collaborator to those who benefited from privileges, fashion models, and all of Parisian high society who lived Yvette Lebon, will go unpunished, as opposed to her ex-lovers Luchaire will be executed by firing squad Arletty is imprisoned. She will not attend the premiere in which she stars. Provocative as ever, she declares, &quot;My heart is French, As for Mireille Balin, she is arrested and raped in September 1944. She will die alone and in poverty They symbolize France. A France-led astray. A France that submitted itself The perverse seduction of the occupier. Those who slept with the enemy must pay. Their crime is called An entire ritual surrounds orchestrated by the Marquise More than 20,000 women These girls provide catharsis by becoming scapegoats All of the wrongdoing, cowardice, is exonerated by taking revenge on women who through their sexual behavior chose the wrong side of history. Head shaving takes place essentially A horizontal collaboration where girls openly consorted Many won't be as lucky as Francine, who escapes head shaving since her mother In my street, across the street from the co-op, on a sidewalk in front of the co-op, I went to see, and I told myself, &quot;No, soon they'll come for me.&quot; However, I wasn't bothered. When a commune or a village the first official act This is done and unusually of the man They are shorn to mark the fact and to its men, In some way, Vichy was obsessed and the stain they brought to the nation. So what do the men do at the liberation? They act out a purification ceremony. The men perform their ritual ablutions. After they are shorn, many women are plunged and washed under running water In the same way, Shearing isn't the only punishment. It is only one possible punishment. There will be 2,000 summary executions Other offences concern wearing a uniform, and being responsible for a denunciation. For the French women this is the beginning of a love affair When the Americans arrived, We had completely forgotten about the war. They were handsome, They found all Parisian women delightful. In their eyes, myself included, was an enchantress. The Americans stayed a week or two There was no danger We just had sex. Something nobody My sister and I spoke English very well and we were raised by an English nanny. We signed up to be hostesses, along with many other girls We took the Americans to visit the Louvre, We were allowed one dance night a week. We discovered whisky, All of a sudden, it was madness. I lived a crazy life One of them knew nothing about culture, He was very handsome, like Gary Cooper. Had he been French, but the Americans wouldn't think Then we had a love affair. I dressed quite well She grew suspicious and wondered how I got it all. She guessed where it came from, so she never said anything about it. Then he asked me to marry him. The idea of moving to the United States who knew nothing about Voltaire and nothing at all about France, &quot;I can love you, but I can't marry you.&quot; We said goodbye with a lot of tears. I received my sexual education. Not my erotic education, Our encounters were very straightforward. I would go to the Hotel Trianon. They organized dances on the ground floor. At 8:00, if an American fancied you. They played chapel in the moonlight I was completely swept away. For three or four months, I had a taste Then I told myself, &quot;I can manage.&quot;