Hi Piano Cats, me and tell me: wow you are playing without It appears that a lot of people treat it as Although, in reality, we are trained to do of an iceberg, it usually doesn't take as I don't have a magic pill for you, but there accelerate the learning process. First of all, we have to figure out at what I guess that for most people, as well as for If I have to memorise some challenging piece, way (if possible), that I would learn it during I have noticed that in the morning I can learn in the evening. For those of you guys, who are relatively learn theory. I know many people hate it and are bored to to make chord progression exercises etc.; of typical musical structures. Because we organise sounds in chords in the And one may compare chord progressions and Thus, if I don't know theory, I would learn [example some sonatina]. The same principle works with languages: just you don't understand, and then in a language In the second case you'd learn not some make sense to you. It is confusing for our brain to remember A long time ago I have read about the memory able to remember up to 7 symbols or units So it's not such a big deal for most people order to learn a 15 or 20-digit credit card segments of up to 7 digits each, and learn Knowing the theory may allow you to perceive a unit. So returning to the Sonatina, its first bar but just a C Major chord. The whole bar is one unit, one block of information When I was a kid, I very well remember this knowledge, and how much faster I started to Here I should mention the four key types of Understanding them may help you build your What was told before about theory knowledge the piece, understand its structure, thus The hand positions may also belong here, although memory. When learning a piece, it's very useful fingering, and to know exactly where you change Always pay attention to repeating or similar motif repeated starting from a different tone. As soon as I have analysed the piece, I enforce Some musicians told me that they can remember As if they have a scan of the score engraved I can't say it works for me. But what I obviously do, I learn the piece Instead I just imagine precisely which keys It's not very easy at first. Most likely you will be tired just after 5-10 will develop this skill. With very new and difficult pieces, I start two, then close my eyes, imagine it, and so The more difficult the piece is, the more In such complex modern pieces like those of layer of confidence. Auditory memory. It means exactly how it sounds: you hear where To use this kind of memory you need decent with some ear-training. It's also useful to sing the melody which melody and name the notes. This is called the Solfege method, and it's Glenn Gould once described a vacuum-cleaner He was practising Mozart, and suddenly a vacuum He noticed right away, that everything he external noise. In fact, those parts sounded the best that The reason for it is that our imagination and we substitute things we hear with what Since then Glenn Gould used this noise cover a piece really quickly. Because his inner hearing started to function was imagining the sound actively instead of in his memory faster. As more active your imagination and inner the music. If you play a piece for a while, your fingers When I was a kid, I used to learn pieces like I just remembered them with fingers. But if you'd ask me then to write the piece probably would be lost after a couple of bars. Motor memory is the easiest to build, because a row doesn't require any particular concentration. We need mechanical memory a lot, because when our brain sometimes is not able to process We develop a finger memory and let fingers The problem is that this type of memory is this type of memory, have memory lapses on Because nothing ruins our mechanical memory So a piece you played perfectly at home just Once when I was young I had such a terrible Everything was fantastic until one moment know where I was. This frustration lasted just for a few moments, audience would notice my confusion. Since then I try to make some precautions types of memory. I also break the piece in short segments and every bar. Some time ago I was playing a Ligeti Etude, And at some point I lost myself. But at this time, instead of panicking I just location. I swear to you, ANYONE from my pianist friends that. I give myself a current task, to play this it, and as soon as I can play it a couple in my head and move forward to the next one. I am pretty sure that you might catch yourself repeating a fragment you know already again Our brain doesn't like to work hard usually, . I don't have much experience in meditation to sit relaxed for one minute before I start stress or anxiety, all those random impressions Instead I try to reach a very concentrated, which does not produce thoughts of any kind. This is just a psychological trick which works Then the ability of a total concentration and start again.