- I am delighted, really delighted, that we have such a wonderful turnout on this miserable day that will mark the Yankees' win of the (audience cheers and applauds) For those of you who are new to the event, let me tell you a little bit about the Presidential Lecture Series. We started this series in the year 2001 and the purpose of the lecture series is to showcase the tremendous of the City University of New York and the formula is very simple, in the fall semester, we invite one of the of the City University of New York or some national figure with the City University of New York, and in the spring, we to be the Presidential Lecture speaker. We have a committee of faculty which is composed of Dr. Shina Gillespie, Dr. Peter Gray, Dr. Kenneth Pearl, and Dr. Sasan Karimi, and if they're here, please stand up so we can recognize you, those of you who are here. I know Sasan is here. (audience applauds) These are the individuals of the consequences of to come and speak to you, but they haven't missed yet, and frankly, I think that today, we have one of the most popular, the first time that we among our midst and the first time, well, maybe not the first time because every Academic Senate, you have one of those, but the first time we have one of the recognized in New York City by New York Magazine. This is Professor Kaku who is Distinguished and he is a theoretical physicist and the Henry Semat Professor at the City College of New York and the Graduate Center of the He has taught for over 30 years, and he's a graduate of (audience laughing and chattering) (audience applauds) And now he's at the Harvard Queensburough, and he's obviously in Physics from the University of California at Berkeley. He's one of the founders Now you know about string theory. Maybe some of you may know some about it, but I know that all of and all of you know and all of you know about energy fields, so you all know a little I really personally believe that Dr. Kaku is a contender and eventually will be a winner of the because of his work, and (audience applauds) You wanna have the pleasure of seeing him in person today, but if you on December 1st, he starts a new series on the Syfy Channel called, I'm sorry, I don't know the title of the series, but he starts a series on and I hope that you will see it. I was very interested in The Physics of the Impossible, because it addresses how will be something real in the future and you can think about the possibilities. Think about somebody in the year 1901 thinking about going from New York to Europe in five hours. Think about the impact of technology, and I'm certain he's gonna but use a little bit extrapolation and look at what can happen in the future, and then a little bit to the Star Treks of the world and see how somebody has imagined what can but that's all in our imagination. Let's talk to an expert, let's talk to somebody behind all of that technology. Please, please help me welcome Dr. Kaku, please. (audience applauds) - Thank you very much. (audience applauds) (faint speaking) Thank you very much. After such a great introduction, I can't wait to hear the speaker myself. (audience laughs) Let me also say, I have I have to confess that voted me as one of the in New York, however, in all fairness, I have to say that Madonna (audience laughs) so how accurate could that list be? Now today, I'm gonna 20, 30, 40 years into the future. I've had the privilege to interview 300 of the world's top scientists. Now I'm a physicist. We're the ones who invented the laser, we invented the transistor, we created the electronic computer, we created television, we created the internet, we wrote the World Wide Web, and whenever we create something, we predict how our creation is gonna proliferate through society. When we helped to invent the internet, one physicist made a prediction. He said that the internet of high culture, high (audience laughs) that 5% of the internet is pornography, but that's because teenage not anyone here. Just wait till the grandmas and grandpas log on to the internet. Then 50% of the internet (audience laughs) Let me also say that when I than you guys, I was For me, physics was the way to go, so when I was in high and I said, &quot;Mom, can I have permission &quot;to build an at atom &quot;A 2.3 million electron volt, &quot;electron particle accelerator?&quot; And my mom looked at me &quot;And don't forget to So, I took out the garbage and I got 400 pounds of transformer steel, 22 miles of copper wire, and I built a 2.3 million electron volt electron accelerator in my garage. The magnetic field was 10,000 gauss. If you walked by the magnets, it was powerful enough out of your teeth if you Finally, it was ready. I plugged it into the wall socket. It consumed six kilowatts I can hear the crackling and then I heard this pop, pop, pop sound and the whole house was I had blown out every My poor mom. She come home from a hard day's work, the lights would flicker and die, and then she'd say, And then she'd say, &quot;Why &quot;who plays baseball? (audience laughs) &quot;a basketball and for God's sake, &quot;why does he have to build &quot;And hey, why can't he find &quot;Why does he build these Well, that machine got me into Harvard and began my career as a physicist. So today, I'm gonna give you However, there is a danger that sometimes we physicists know too much. Let me tell you a story, Over 200 years ago, we had the great French Revolution, and one day, there were three gentlemen about to lose their There was a priest, a lawyer, and a theoretical physicist just like me about to have our heads cut off. Well, they put the priest's Now they asked him, &quot;Do &quot;before we cut your priestly head off?&quot; And the priest said, &quot;Yes, yes.&quot; He said, &quot;God, God from above, &quot;He shall certainly set me free.&quot; While all eyes were on the blade, they raised the blade. The blade came down, swish! And it stopped right before it hit the neck of the priest. Well, the mob had never seen this before. They were shocked! They said, &quot;God has &quot;And now let's see about the lawyer.&quot; Yes, the lawyer. Now the bloodlust was starting. Yes, the lawyer. They put the lawyer's and they asked him, &quot;Do &quot;before we cut your lawyerly head off?&quot; And he said, &quot;Yes!&quot; He said, &quot;Maybe the spirit of justice, &quot;yes, justice and mercy, Well, they raised the blade. The blade came down, swish! And it stopped right before Well, this time, the crowed went crazy. They said, &quot;Let there &quot;Today, God has spoken. &quot;Justice, mercy have spoken today! &quot;And now let's see about (audience laughs) Well, they put the physicist's and they asked him, &quot;Do &quot;before we cut your head off?&quot; And he said, &quot;Yeah, yeah, And he said, &quot;I don't &quot;and I know even less about the law, &quot;but I do know one thing, &quot;if you look up, you'll see that the rope &quot;is stuck on the pulley.&quot; (audience laughs) And then he said, &quot;If you remove the rope, &quot;the blade should come down real good!&quot; Big mistake, big mistake. Well, the rope came down, and the poor physicist's head came down and the moral of the story is, sometimes we physicists have to know when to keep our mouths shut, okay? (audience laughs) But nonetheless, let me through the future to interview over 300 of These are the people inventing the future. First of all, let me say that you get the Science Channel. On the Science Channel, as it was mentioned, my book, Physics of the Impossible as a weekly TV series Watch for it December 1st They call is Sci Fi Science, colon, Physics of the Impossible. - It looks awesome! First of all, how do we scientists know what's gonna happen 10, How could we be so confident? Well, first of all, this is Moore's Law. On a log chart, you doubles every 18 months. Now what does that mean? This means that when in the mail, you open it and the chip sings. Happy birthday to you Well, that chip has more computer power than all the Allied forces of 1945. Hitler, Eisenhower, to get that chip, and what You throw it away in the garbage. Or look at this chart. You'll see that way back in the 1960s, NASA had almost no computer power. Your cellphone today, one cellphone today, has more computer power, than all of NASA when they This means that if cars cars today would cost 10 cents. This means that when you park the car, you wouldn't even bother to The meter costs more than the car, so you just park the car So, what does this mean? This means that by 2020, computer chips will cost about a penny. That is the cost of scrap paper, so we now know the future of the computer. The future of the computer hidden in the walls, hidden just like electricity is, And this is the internet. We wrote the World Wide Web. The World Wide Web was to keep track of subatomic particles and you can see here that the internet corresponds to prosperity. Where there is the internet, there is prosperity, there's Where there's no internet, So, one thing that we physicists do is we create something and then we simply give it away for free. So, how will you communicate with the internet in the future? These are glasses that have You can download any website, any movie, do emails from these things, and they will also How many times have you on the street and you say to yourself, who is this person? Jim, John, Jake, I know this person. In the future, your glasses will say, it's Jim, stupid, remember? (audience laughs) You met him last week! Do you wanna see his in your glasses? And let's say you're at a cocktail party. You're looking for a job and you don't know who In the future, you will know exactly who to suck up to at any cocktail party. (audience laughs) Well, let's say you don't wanna look like a refugee from Star Trek. In the future, glasses will be fashionable with full internet capability. They can be flashed directly into the retina of your eye, they could be flashed right or used as a jeweler's lens as an attachment to your glasses. Fashion models will be Young people will demand to any video, any movie, downloaded via your glasses. Now you may say to Maybe I don't wear glasses. No problem. In the future, they'll be These are internet contact lenses that we physicists are trying to build. Imagine taking a final examination. (audience laughs) Ha! Immediately, the light Think of taking a final examination. Do you realize that in the future, professors are gonna have to throw out their final exam because memorization on a final exam anymore? You'll have to convey rather than memorizing or the shapes of the minerals or whatever. Imagine full internet Well, we physicists are working on this even as we speak. Imagine, for example, You bump into somebody and they start to talk to No problem. In the future, you will see subtitles. (audience laughs) Subtitles of a foreign And let's say you visit the ruins of Rome. It's such a big disappointment. You read about the great Roman Empire, and then you see all that's left, almost nothing left of the empire. You go to the Roman Forum thinking of Julius Caesar and Mark Antony at the Roman Forum. No problem, your contact lens will recreate the full animation of the height of the Roman Empire as you walk through the ruins. This is called augmented a mixture of reality with animation, with subtitles, with translations. Let's say you're driving a car. Your contact lens will you're moving, how much gas you have, and will even point out landmarks as you are driving, GPS, all of that, without ever having to leave the steering wheel of your car. So, this is what happens with Moore's Law. The computer chips will cost a penny. Like electricity, they'll When you walk in a room today, what do you do? You look for the light switch, right? The first thing you do is you You assume the walls have electricity, even though it's invisible. In the future, when the first thing you will do is look for the internet portal. You will assume the room is intelligent. So, this is your cellphone of the future. This is how you will One screen for any video, one screen for any movie You'll access the entire database of the planet Earth almost for free, and let's say you have a Blackberry. You know how tiny that Well, in the future, we'll have e-paper. You'll simply scroll out, scroll out paper which is intelligent, and you'll type on that sheet of paper. So, your cellphone is an entire PC. In fact, it has more power In fact, wallpaper will be so cheap that when you put up wallpaper, Wallpaper will be as intelligent as your computer today. This is your living room of the future. This is how you will Let's say you're on a college campus and let's say it's Friday night and you do not have a date. We all know what you (audience laughs) you'll go up to the wall screen and you'll say, mirror, who's available tonight? (audience laughs) The wall screen will then contact all the other wall screens The wall screen knows exactly physical characteristics, age, whatever, and hook you up to whoever else is looking at their magic mirror and saying mirror, mirror on the wall. Then you'll go out and have some fun, come back to your apartment, and then you wanna see a movie. So, you'll say to the wall screen, mirror, mirror on the wall, we wanna see Casablanca, except remove Humphry Bogart's face and put my face instead, (audience laughs) and remove Ingrid Bergman's face and put my date's face instead. Now some people are a but realize that when the internet was first created by we physicists, it was male, it was hierarchical, it was to dominate over the Soviet Union. Why did the Pentagon give to create the internet? It wasn't so that you That's not why we physicists It was created to dominate a nuclear war with Russia so we can communicate and rebuild America after Los Angeles, Chicago are vaporized. That's how we're gonna recreate Today, the internet is female. 51% of the users of the internet are women and they use it to touch people. That's what it's all about. Technology looks frightening but then you realize the whole is to be female, to touch so the internet has flipped, flipped from being a war-fighting device to be a device that allows you to communicate to all your friends. That dog, for example, on the left, is a cyber dog. It doesn't really exist. It babysits your kids, runs, barks. That dogs does everything (audience laughs) Let's say it's Thanksgiving 'cause one son's in Australia, another one's on the South Pole. No problem, you'll all gather around your own wall screens, you'll and you will see everybody as you carve up the turkey in cyberspace. Also, we're putting chips everywhere. Chips are going into toys now. Toys are becoming intelligent. This is causing a problem a contradiction in terms Another contradiction in (audience laughs) That is also a contradiction in terms. So again, any technology looks frightening when you first see it, the whole purpose of this to reach out and to touch people. This is your office of the future. Today of course, your office is built around the PC, but why should that be? The PC of the future will disappear. The future of the Electricity has disappeared. We no longer see electricity. Intelligence will also disappear into the fabric of our lives. These are scrap computers. This is your office of the future. You'll scribble on a sheet that has full word processing capability, Paint capability, and and as you go from room to room, the files move with you. Your files are more The computer only cost a In fact, when you go shopping, today you have a barcode In the future, instead it'll have a chip. The chip will cost less than And so, this is how you will car to home, home to office. The software follows you This is your cubicle of the future. This is how you will operate. And like I said before, if you don't like to be in a cubicle, you The wallpaper is fully what have you. This is the car of the future. I had a chance to drive this car. This car has no driver. It is a driverless car. These cars have now in the Mojave Desert without a driver. GPS is the secret to and for the Discovery Channel, they put me in the driver's seat. I started to drive the car and then I went like this. Try to drive like this next time. This means that traffic accidents could disappear from the English language. Traffic jams, traffic as the cars literally drive themselves. And let's talk about health. Health is gonna be turned upside down. First of all, when you go to the doctor, your doctor will be in your toilet. You'll go to the doctor three times a day. The doctor will analyze your body fluids and it will tell you too much animal fat, too much salt, too much sugar in your diet. Isn't the future wonderful? Even your toilet will tell you that you have an unhealthy diet. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this could be the cure for cancer because today, if you feel it's too late, it's really too late. You have 10 billion cancer cells Surgery is required almost immediately. In the future, when you go to the toilet, your toilet will analyze proteins emitted from cancer, cancer cells, not 10 and tell you oh, by the way, you'll have breast cancer in 10 years. Well, watch out, but no rush. And there'll be chips scattered throughout your bathroom How do we know this? 'Cause my friends are They're called DNA chips. Chips that allow you to scan DNA within a matter of minutes, so even as you're going to the bathroom, combing your hair, what have you, your bathroom is giving you a complete medical examination. And we now know that DNA is computer tape. Instead of zeros and ones, zeros and ones, zeros, and ones, we have ATCG, ATCG, and we could read computer tape just like we read DNA. So how will we do it? Every time you blow on a glass, you blow on a glass, you leave DNA there. It will sample the DNA and I had my genome scanned. Most of my genes have been which I then showed to the camera. Realize that you will have this very soon. To have all your genes Within a few years, and perhaps in 10 years, it'll This is your owner's manual. In your home, you have an your iPod, your computer, your TV set. You have an owner's manual for everything except one thing, your body. This will be your owner's manual. In fact, when they scanned my DNA, they even told me where my ancestors came - Wow! my family lineage now to 20,000 years. So, what will it be like to go to the doctor's office? We will not only scan your DNA, if we find something wrong with an organ, we will replace it and grow another one. This is an ear, except plastic sponge that dissolves with time. We take some cells from your ears, seed it into this ear, and it grows. It grows, leaving a perfect ear. Then the plastic dissolves with time because it is biodegradable. Here's bone on the Today, we can grow bone, blood, skin, cartilage. We can grow noses, ears, The first bladder was The first windpipe was and we will grow the first liver, perhaps, in five more years. So for you alcoholics in If you can hold on for five more years, you may be able to have your own liver. So let's now have the first DVD where we're now gonna go into What'll it be like if we can grow organs by seeding it with cells? What'll it be like if surgery So, let's have the first video from the Discovery Channel, called 2057, 50 Years From Now. So, as computer power it means that every aspect of our life, finance, commerce, health, is as we begin to realize that computer power can enrich our lives. This is the world's first that was grown from a and implanted into that young woman. That was three years ago, a development at Wake Forest University, where we taped changed history and within five years, we hope the first liver, perhaps These are the frontier organs that are now being looked at to be grown in the laboratory. The first windpipe was and in mice, we actually An entire mouse heart and how is it possible? Because computer power means that we can sequence genes, we can put doctors in It has accelerated medical advances. And now, let me say a few things about Well, one day will we have robots, the robots that well, we Well, this is ASIMO. ASIMO is the world's most advanced robot. ASIMO can run, ASIMO can ASIMO can dance. In fact, ASIMO can dance better than me. I had a chance to meet ASIMO, and the question is how smart and can these robots even have emotions so that we can bond with them? Let's have now the second video where we will now go to Tokyo. We're now gonna go to Tokyo and meet the world's most advanced robot, and the question is well, one day, will they become smarter than us? Will one day they put us in zoos and throw peanuts at us and Well, let's-- - The question is, how Well, one day, will and put us in zoos? Well first of all, here is the governor of (audience laughs) So one day, will we have to deal with mad governors? Well, let's take a look at ASIMO. So you ASIMO, the world's How smart is ASIMO? Well, let me tell you. ASIMO as as smart as a a stupid, lobotomized, retarded cockroach. ASIMO takes about six hours every movement pre-programmed. That scene that you saw took three hours, took three hours for us to program every single move of that robot. So, why is Japan spending so Well, let me tell you a secret. Japan's population is the fastest aging population on Earth. They have very few young people, they have a lot of old people. These are future robot nurses. That's why Japan is spending so much money building robot. That's the future of nursing, not the future of human intelligence. However, in the coming perhaps they'll be as smart as a mouse, eventually as smart as a dog or a cat, and then decades after that, maybe as smart as a monkey. At that point, I think in their brain to shut them off if they start to get murderous thoughts, but that's not for a while. That's decades into the future. We'll have plenty of warning, and in fact, for the that I'm hosting on December 1st, we went to all the world's leading artificial intelligence laboratory, and you can see how primitive Well, I'll say a few more in the Science Channel Believe it or not, we physicists believe that invisibility is possible. We flew down to Duke University and we filmed the world's first microwave invisibility device. It'll make an object and we went to Berkeley, where they can actually now Now there is a problem. If you are inside an invisibility cloak, you cannot see outside. It's only a one-way trip. Therefore, if you are inside ya need to punch two eyeballs so you can see outside, you see two floating eyeballs, or here, a floating head. So remember that metamaterials allows us to bend microwave radiations around an object just like If you were downstream from a boulder, you don't know that there That works for microwaves and at Berkeley and Caltech, on a microscopic scale, they showed that it works so this means that in the we may be able to attain full invisibility just like you see in the movies, but we don't have it yet. Also, teleportation. Wouldn't it be great across the room, just Well, this is called and for the Science Channel TV series, we went down to Maryland, to the University of Maryland, where we actually actually photographed an atom being zapped across the room. A TV screen lit up every from one chamber to the next chamber. Now this, of course, creates problems 'cause if you're Captain Kirk, you have to die, you have in creating a copy of so who is that imposter over there? That imposter over there He sells Priceline just So, who is that person over there? You just saw him die and there he is, selling Priceline over there. It really makes you wonder, who are we? Are we just information, that from one place to another? And believe it or not, telepathy is coming faster than you think. We taped this again for the 12 episodes, 30 minutes Here's how it works. This is Brown University, where with have a stroke He is paralyzed. He cannot move, he cannot communicate with his loved ones, he is a quadriplegic, a stroke victim. On the upper left is a chip. They put the chip in his brain, shown on the lower left. You can see the dot You hook up that chip to a laptop. That person, who is now totally paralyzed can now read emails, surf do crossword puzzles, on a computer, except this This means that in the future, you may want to simply by thinking about it. We can also use this this is how it works, by the way. He's allowed to see the laptop. You see the connection on the right, an electrode that hooks the world's first direct and a computer. And also, in Japan, they of the brain onto an MRI scan and had a computer recognize them. We can actually see the outlines now, the decoded outlines of an object that you are looking This means that when you we may be able to photograph that you have. This has already been not with dreams, but with the person looking at an object. A computer decodes the We can now recognize. The first thing that was You can actually see the horseshoe, the person's horseshoe via an MRI scan, but in the article, it says that the next target is dreams. Maybe one day we'll be This is how it looks like. You have to put this but in the future, it may be invisible. It may be painless and invisible and you'll be able to surf Also, we should point out, we should also point out for a lie detector test. When you tell a lie, your brain scan lights up like a Christmas tree. That's because first, you Second, you have to create the lie. Third, you have the create and fourth, you have to of the coverup with all the other lies you've been telling all these years. That's a lotta brainpower, and you can actually Now let me say a few things So far, everything I've talked about is the near future. We're talking about 10, Now let's look even farther. We went to NASA and we who dream of one day building a star ship. This, of course, is far beyond anything we can muster with today's technology. However, we actually who believed that it may be possible to bend the fabric of space and time so that we can leap forwards perhaps using Einstein's theory. This is a black hole. Black holes are not We photographed the accretion This black hole lies at the center of a gigantic galaxy, NGC 4258. That dot you see at the very center is about one light year across. In the inside of the dot In fact, if you wanna go outside, look in the That is the center of There's a black hole there lies at the center of our galaxy. So kids ask the question, if the moon goes around the Earth, the Earth goes around the sun, then what does the sun go around? Well, we know the answer to that. The sun goes around a black hole in the constellation Sagittarius at the center of the Milky Way Galaxy. Now if you look at that black hole, it's rather disappointing. Dust clouds obscure the galactic nuclei. If you could somehow then you would see a fireball, a fireball rise every night, perhaps rivaling the moon in brightness with a raging black hole at the center. Unfortunately, dust clouds prevent us from seeing this huge fireball that by rights, should be And, if you have you may be able to even bend This of course, takes but actually, we do have Now some of you may say to yourself, well, I've seen these time travel movies. I know what happens if You meet your teenage and your teenage mother Well, you're in deep doo-doo if your teenage mother before you are born. Now if you think you're so smart, let me give you the mother and see whether you can figure this out. Let's see whether you're smart enough to figure this one out. The year is 1945, a stranger carrying a baby girl that Well, the nuns find this baby girl. They don't know where so the nuns call her Jane and Jane grows up as an orphan, who is my father? Well, when Jane is 17 years old, she's a beautiful young woman and then she has her first boyfriend. A drifter comes drifting into her life, but it was not meant to be. They quarrel, she argues and it's a very sad story. First, she finds out that she's pregnant. Her boyfriend has left her, she's rushed to the she delivers a beautiful baby girl, but somebody that night of the hospital, kidnaps Jane's baby girl, and leaves in the darkness. Well, it's even worse than this. Jane is bleeding very rapidly. She's gonna die. The doctors have to perform an emergency experimental operation. They have to change Jane into Jim. Well, Jim wakes up the next day with this huge headache, First, the boyfriend left her pregnant, somebody stole her baby, and now she's not even Well, Jim grows up and Every time someone says, who are you Jim? Where did you come from? Who was your mother or your father? Well, finally Jim one day at the bottom of a bar after a bar fight, but the bartender comes &quot;Jim, Jim, wake up! &quot;You see, I'm not really a bartender, &quot;I'm a time traveler. &quot;Come into my machine and let us find out &quot;who is this Jim slash Jane.&quot; So, they go back, back, So poor Jim, he doesn't quite know where he is in the past, this beautiful 17-year-old girl and it's love at first sight, but it was not meant to be. They quarrel and then Jim finds out that his girlfriend is pregnant, and then Jim says to himself, &quot;Oh my God, history is repeating itself. &quot;This happened to me! &quot;Well, I wanna make sure that my baby &quot;gets the best education possible.&quot; That night, nine months later, breaks open the window, kidnaps and then Jim and his baby girl go back into the time machine into the past until it is 1945. It is a dark and stormy night. Jim comes in from the darkness carrying his precious baby girl that he drops off at an orphanage. Well, the nuns don't know what to do with this baby girl so the nuns call her Jane, and Jane grows up (audience laughs) I was left as a foundling on the doorstep of this orphanage. Well, Jim finally gets it together. Jim says, &quot;I don't wanna &quot;I'm gonna join the time travelers corps.&quot; So, Jim has many heroic Now, Jim is an old man. He says to himself, &quot;I've had a good life, &quot;but I want one final mission. &quot;For my last mission in time, &quot;I'm gonna go backwards &quot;to impersonate a bartender, &quot;to meet a certain barroom drunk &quot;who just got into a fistfight&quot; 'cause someone said, &quot;Who are you, Jim? &quot;Who is your mother or your father?&quot; Now for 10 points, who can tell me, who is Jim's mother, granddaughter, grandfather, In the back? - Himself, himself. Jane is a family tree unto herself. Can you imagine the family get together and they get into a food fight and somebody says you did this to me, no, you did that to yourself! (audience laughs) Well, we physicists think about this. This is a wormhole. This is what I do professionally. I work in something called string theory. I'm the co-founder of string field theory, and we think that perhaps and time can be bent. In which case, perhaps to go backwards in time. However, the energy necessarily for this is the energy of a black hole, so this is not for us any time soon. However, 150 years ago, there a mathematician at Oxford University who wrote the first book on wormholes. Who was this professor of mathematics at Oxford University? Does anyone know the name of this Oxford University professor? (audience chattering) His name was Professor Charles Dodgson. He could not write under his real name 'cause he was an Oxford Professor, so what did he create? A pseudonym, Lewis Carroll. This is the world's first representation of a wormhole in the English language, written by a distinguished at Oxford University who wrote under a penname, Lewis Carroll. In fact, Queen Victoria was so enchanted by Alice in Wonderland that she wrote Professor Dodgson a letter. Queen Victoria said, &quot;give me your next book,&quot; which he did. It was a treatise on higher mathematics that he sent to Queen Victoria. So now let's say a few things. Some people say that well, let's talk about the future, far future. When we physicists look into outer space, we don't look for little green men. When we look into outer space, we look for Type I, Type II, A Type civilization has the They are a planetary civilization. They harness the weather, they they play with hurricanes and volcanoes. That's Type I. Type II is stellar. They consume the power of a star like the Federation of Star Trek would be a very Type III controls the like the Empire of Empire Strikes Back. Once they had William and he was answering all the The Trekkies would ask like what is the fourth dimension, what is antimatter, what is a black hole? And William Shatner was getting The people at startrek.com said finally he got so frustrated, and he said, &quot;Dammit, dammit, &quot;I know nothing about Star Trek, I mean, &quot;about the fourth dimension, antimatter. &quot;Get a physicist. &quot;Ask about Priceline, anything!&quot; So they had me on later all the questions of a Trekkie. Well, Star Trek is a Type II civilization. They can barely harness This is Type I. A Type I civilization is planetary. In about a hundred years, a hundred years, we will be a Type I civilization. What are we today? We are Type 0. We don't even rate on the scale. We get our energy from This is Type II, Type II is stellar. They control the power of a star. They are immortal. Nothing known to science can destroy a Type II civilization. Even if their mother star goes supernova, they can simply leave and this is Type III, where with black holes. I once gave this talk in London at the planetarium there, and a little boy comes up to me about He comes up to me and he yanks on my pants and he says, &quot;Professor, &quot;There's Type IV!&quot; And the I looked down on and I said to him, &quot;Shut up, kid. (audience laughs) &quot;Why don't you go play in traffic? &quot;There's a nice intersection over there.&quot; And he wouldn't go away! He kept yanking on my pants and he said, &quot;Professor, you're wrong! &quot;There's Type IV!&quot; And I said, &quot;Look kid, there are planets, &quot;stars, and galaxies, that's it! &quot;So any advanced civilization &quot;stellar, or galactic.&quot; And he insisted, &quot;You're &quot;of the continuum.&quot; Now, any Star Trek fans out there? What civilization harnesses - Cube. - The Cube, very good! Now if you did not understand get with the program! (audience laughs) Get with the program, okay? It's on every Tuesday night. Get with the program for God's sake, okay? So, one day, will we be able to harness this fantastic power, the This is my domain, this is what I work on. I work on string theory. We're gonna begin to starting next month. Watch for it, end of they're gonna crank up the ever created, the Large Hadron Collider. Now we're gonna be able of this theory starting It'll take years of course, However, let me also say that when we look at the Earth from outer sits in this gigantic bubble. You see, our Earth also radiates. We radiate radio and Surrounding the Earth, there is a sphere 50 light years in radius, expanding at the speed of television, containing our finest cultural archives, the noblest achievements of like I Love Lucy, Leave It To Beaver, and now joined by the immortal classics, Beavis and Butt-Head, part two, and Dumb and Dumber, part two, and any star within 50 will pick up our cultural emissions and they'll be convinced there is no intelligent life on the Earth. So anyway, let me now wind up. A few years ago, I spoke a great honor, but my is as follows. When Einstein was an old man, he was tired of giving the same talk so one day his chauffeur came up to him, and he said, &quot;Professor, I'm a chauffeur, &quot;but I'm actually a part-time actor. &quot;I've memorized your talk. &quot;I've heard it so often, &quot;so why don't we switch places? &quot;I will put on a mustache and a wig &quot;and I'll be the great Einstein &quot;and you can be my Well, Einstein loved the joke, so they switched places. So, the chauffeur gave these for these fantastic talks with all the theatrical flourishes. Well, one day, a mathematician in the back asked a very difficult question and then Einstein thought but then the chauffeur said, &quot;That question is so elementary &quot;that even my chauffeur (audience laughs) Okay, thank you very much! Thank you very much. You've been a great audience. Thank you. (faint speaking) Thank you. (faint speaking) Ah yeah, I'll take a picture, yeah. (faint speaking) Yeah (laughing). A few questions. (audience applauds) - Wonderful, right? Really wonderful. Dr. Kaku will take two or three questions because time is short, - [Woman] Wondering what technology be like? (audience laughs) - Oh yeah (laughing). Let me say two things. I have a whole chapter about the aging process. First of all, if you go to a drugstore, you see all this advertisement, anti-aging this, take 10 years, that. How can the FDA allow all to being made? So I actually interviewed an FDA official. He said the Food and Drug Administration can only monitor things medicines that penetrate the skin. Anything that does not penetrate the skin, they cannot monitor. But then, if it doesn't it doesn't work. So in other words, you can as long as it doesn't work! Let me repeat that again. According to federal law, you want about take life, whatever, anything you want, as long as it doesn't penetrate the skin, as long as it doesn't work. Now let me tell you the science. We went to MIT and we interviewed the discoverer of a rather important gene that's creating headlines. Oprah Winfrey devoted a show to it, 60 Minutes devoted to a show to it. It's called SIR2. It is a gene and a protein that seems to mimic caloric restriction. Now there is one and only one way of multiplying the all the way from yeast mice, rabbits, dogs, cats, monkeys were analyzed from page of the New York If you starve yourself and you live 30% longer. Now how many of us wanna starve ourselves? But the genetic mechanism of that is gradually being worked out. It turns out that the has two choices, one is you have to hunker down, and just ride out the famine. The other one is consume all so a body has two choices. Animals mostly suffer famine. Famine is a normal state of most animals, so animals do this all the time. They hunker down, eat and ride out the period of famine until they can gorge Well, ya found the gene, that behavior without Now is it the fountain of youth? I interviewed the guy who discovered it and he said no, don't believe the hype. However, he said once we do it may be part of it. So the point I'm raising is, we're not working out the Did you know for example, Crocodiles, alligators, flounders, they just keep getting larger. They don't die at all. They're just as vigorous So, how come your textbook says that crocodiles die at age 70? That's because the zookeeper Crocodiles just keep on going. They have no known finite lifespan. They simply get bigger. So in the animal kingdom, it's not necessarily to die or age. They just keep getting bigger. That's why you don't is because they die of starvation, accidents, or disease, but so it's not necessarily to die. They're just as vigorous with no aging. So, the short thing of it is, A, it's still a long ways to go. However, B, we scientists are now seriously looking of retarding the aging process. We do no, I repeat, not However, as one scientist said, I regret the fact that my generation may be the last generation to die. Well, I think that's an exaggeration. I think people will be into the future, but it does mean that real progress is being made in the aging process, which is something I could not have said a few years ago. - How about you? Einstein's theory correct, - Well, we wanna go beyond Einstein because Einstein's theory breaks down at the center of a black hole and at the instant of creation. Einstein's theory makes We need a higher theory. The only higher theory which includes the quantum theory and Einstein's theory is string theory. It is the only game in town. Some people say well, if I give me an alternative, and the answer is, there is none. It is oh, the only game in town. You either work on string theory or you just work in the wilderness. So next month, we're gonna begin to crank up the Large Hadron Collider. Now the Large Hadron Collider will not eat up the Earth, because every day, cosmic rains radiation on the Earth more powerful than anything we can called the Large Hadron Collider, so we're gonna begin to test The theory itself is too but we have to find indirect proofs by looking for what are called sparticles. Sparticles are superparticles, that we hope to create with and again, it'll take a few but the machine will be By the way, I just spoke and the people in Texas know that they had the Super outside Dallas, Texas. The Super Collider was than the Switzerland machine, so how come it's not based How come we have this Well, it's because in 1993, on the Super Collider and a congressman asked a of hearings, quote, &quot;Will we on the last day of hearings. Everything hinged on this one answer. So, the poor professor of physics said, &quot;We will find the Higgs boson.&quot; At that point, you could hear all the jaws hit the floor of Congress. $11 billion for another The vote was taken the next day and our machine was canceled, and that's why we have this brain drain to Switzerland right now. Since then, we physicists have over and over and over again in our minds. How should we have answered that question? Well, I would've said this, I would've said God, by you ascribe to the deity, as humanly possible to his or her greatest creation, genesis. This is a genesis machine. It'll recreate on a tiny scale the most momentous event in the history of our universe, its birth. Instead, we said Higgs boson (audience laughs) I just hope the next time we think about the Okay, one last question? How about back there? and I wonder if, you seem but so, in that technology, in the hands of some it seems like you could set up a Big Brother situation very quickly like the doctor in my - Okay first of all, when I had a chance to go back when I was rewriting my book, Visions, and I realized something. The internet could have been a device like what happened in 1984, a device which monitors However, an event happened, and that is the Soviet Union broke up. The internet was a war-fighting machine, secret for the most part, used by physicists like myself, but after the breakup of the Soviet Union, the National Science Foundation did something rather momentous, they gave it away for free. For free, they gave it away. Today, it is impossible to recreate 1984 because the internet is everywhere. If the president of the United States were to try to ban the internet, the reaction would be laughter. People would just laugh at him. It's unstoppable, so I However, there was another and that other book was called Brave New That's a book that we really because in that book, that book was set 600 years in the future. In that book, they have cloning. In that book, they have drugs everywhere. In that book, they have the stratification of the human species. In that book, well, we have Forget 600 years in the future. Welcome to the Brave New World. So, we do have to worry about raised in Brave New World, but as far as the problem of computers, the problem is not Big Brother, the problem is little brother. Every nosy busybody and finds all sorts of information on you, and in the future, if about who you are, they'll and get some of your hair follicles and sequence your entire genome. This means that the National Enquirer, instead of getting will have his entire genome read by getting some of his hair and it's gonna create a huge Today, if you have a matchmaker, one of the principle is to look for hidden Well, in the future, all is go to your barbershop of genetic diseases So, genetic privacy is gonna be a problem because DNA sequencing is so advanced and it'll only cost a few hundred bucks to analyze every single gene in your body. Well, thank you very much. - You've been a great crowd. - Thank you! (audience applauds) (faint speaking) (audience applauds) - There are some refreshments outside and I'm certain that if we might be able to have some contact or some personal discussion with Dr. Kaku. Thank you again for coming. - Okay.