There have been some really cool developments in to the public. This made me think: How could Excel formula? Let me show you some really cool some of the questions you've asked me and see if you're not familiar with ChatGPT is, it's basically answers. It's currently free. All you need to do go to ChatGPT, and then try ChatGPT or just go currently high demand for this because it's such All you need to do is type in your question here look at our first question. Here's a comment from &quot;I have a question and hoping you have a way to the number of words in an Excel sheet? I see VBA wiz brain.&quot; Well, it's not going to be my brain, ChatGPT has to say to this. I'm just going to copy ChatGPT and see what it has to say. Okay, I'm just since &quot;there is no built-in formula in Excel that a sheet, however you can use the LEN() function to then divide the number by an average number per really what I want to do. Now, it gets interesting. with nothing. Then use the LEN function to count number of words. Okay, so assuming that you want so now, it went back to a single cell. I don't you can use VBA or macros to do the same. Now you it a question, it can be the exact same question, going ahead and writing a VBA code even though we something simpler. You have defined the function, it's written a function in VBA, that's also great. the formula version. So let's see if I can tell formula version, update it to apply to range A1 to be counted. Okay, you can use the following range of cells while excluding blank cells. Okay, ...and divide by 5 to estimate the number of words. to get the number of words. This formula uses and counting the number of letters and adding one makes sure that only non-black cells are counted test it out. I'm going to copy it, let's go to A1 to C100. Right now I get 0, there's nothing That seems to work. And this formula is valid for it as you need to depending on your range. Now I Office 365 function like the TEXTSPLIT function, even recognizes that TEXTSPLIT is a newer function using an earlier version, it's not going to work. working, so we had a bunch of back and forth in mind though that ChatGPT doesn't have access to after 2021. But if it knows the TEXTSPLIT function, it introduced before. But it wasn't able, at least combine these functions to give me the result that In case you're interested, it's this one here. We versions give us the same results. It's just much course, only if you have Office 365 or Excel 2021. gave me did work. Now let's take a look at another asks &quot;I've been trying to use data validation and like it doesn't work even in the latest Excel B2 plus C2. If I set the validation on cell A2 any number could still be put into cells B2 and even if their sum is greater than 10.&quot; And yes, cells that are driven by formulas. It works on say about this. Okay, so I'm just going to paste &quot;just wondering if you already have a video for &quot;Excel's data validation feature is intended to rather than the results of a formula.&quot; It's smart; it knows that. &quot;Because the result of formula depends on the values in other cells, the data validation rule &quot;To validate the results of a formula, you can the result of the formula and highlights the cell you could create conditional formatting that 10 and applies a red fill color to the cell if it is. This sum to exceed 10, the cell will be highlighted It says, &quot;You can also use custom VBA script for in complexity, you might consider using Excel but one suggestion would also be to add an &quot;IF&quot; then it should return error, otherwise valid. Now Formatting&quot; method, but we don't know how to go Okay, &quot;To set up conditional formatting for option. Here's an example of how to set up a rule is greater than 10.&quot; Okay, so first we need select &quot;New Rule&quot;, use the formula, and use red fill, press OK to close. &quot;You can also you can compare the value in cell A2 with and/or operators for multiple conditions.&quot; We're going to go with this one and see if we then we're going to highlight these cells. It said Use a formula, we're going to paste this in, and OK and OK. Now let's check this out. We're going and I'm just going to add some random numbers to about nested &quot;IF&quot; functions that we all struggle was under the &quot;IF&quot; formula video and they asked I think these should be zeros, &quot;and visibility less this, and/or visibility is this, but this.&quot; So just able to solve this, we will have to break it down break it down faster than we can to be able to going to copy this, let's bring up the browser and so it looks like you're trying to build a system ceiling cloud cover and visibility. I had no idea us the code in Python. Yeah, we never told it the code for. So let's see if we can specify Excel. I'm just going to put in make this into Excel formula to classify weather conditions so it's going on and giving us quite a detailed I'm just going to ignore that. I just want to so let's copy code and bring up Excel. I already test the function on the C column. Now, because and B1, I'm going to paste it in C1 so that we can right result. So, &quot;VFR&quot; if ceiling is greater than miles, it's 2, we get 'VFR&quot;. &quot;MVFR,&quot; so we have &quot;MVFR&quot; it's 1200, that's true, so we have four. But here's the thing, the we either have an AND condition or an OR sense to have an AND condition. So, both of these and that's what ChatGPT has designed as well. It's last two, I just get &quot;IFR&quot;. I'm not seeing &quot;LIFR&quot;. ceiling is less than 500, it is, it's 400 here. And/or, it is, but I'm not getting &quot;LIFR&quot;, I'm getting &quot;IFR&quot;, That last condition never gets executed. Why? it's also less than 1000, and whenever we have a So, the formula reaches this part, the condition here. So, what's the solution? Well, we just have I'm just going to cut this one, go carefully And now, let's see if we get the correct answer. what Free Pilot wanted to see, but with a little last one is a common question from our students. report for the tab that we select here. So, I want the macro to go to the tab Productivity, that this Excel workbook is saved in. And I want it to go to the Game tab and generate a PDF do we do that? Let's see what ChatGPT thinks. We instructions. So, I've typed in here: &quot;Write a VBA finds the worksheet with the exact name. Then as this Excel file is saved in.&quot; So, let's see macro that does what you described and it's gone adding a message box at the end to inform us that that we can run the macro by opening the Visual if you don't know how to do this, you can I'm just going to go ahead and copy the code and bring up the Visual Basic editor. So, you can use right-mouse-click on a tab and select View Code. So, let's insert a new module. Just going to go to paste in the code that we got. The syntax looks or we can attach it to a button or a shape. I want I added my Visual Basic code, it tells me that workbooks. To resume, autosave, save, save to this file as an &quot;.xlsm&quot; file. Now, I want to add Illustrations, Shapes. I'm just going to go with Create PDF. Click on OK and let's just quickly works. I have game selected. So, this tab should as this Excel file is saved in. Let's run it. the Excel file. Click on OK. Is that true? Game Now, let's switch this to productivity. Create Productivity.pdf is right here. Isn't that amazing Okay, so to wrap up, GPT did a great job in you have to be cautious. I've noticed that there the answers that we get. So, for example here for the add-in for Microsoft Office installed in your by add-in for Microsoft Office? We don't need in the middle of the answers, and sometimes you here, this is another comment from YouTube. #SPILL error. I'm taking error when I'm using index do I fail? Can't we use these formulas in the can occur when using certain formulas in a table is larger than the number of rows in a table. So, table and it does. But, this part is wrong. It than a single cell, not bigger than the number use it with care. Now, am I worried whether I'm super excited about these developments. to find a way to make it work for us. I'm people getting unstuck. So, if you're stuck on a But it can't create, at least not yet, a Power BI are constantly changing with technology, we just this world. Let me know in the comments what you your job. Thank you for being here, thank you for