Asteroid impacts have always been a fascinating news articles of asteroids reaching the surface of disaster movies. Why? Well, they are likely out 76 percent of all species on the planet could such an event happen again? And if a large prevent it and survive using current technology? Join me today as we learn about the DART change the course of an asteroid to protect Major impact events have significantly shaped solar system, one of the biggest impacts where a planet sized object named Theia collided now have oceans full of water thanks to collisions also potentially caused several mass extinctions. Chicxulub crater, which is believed to have caused There is an inverse relationship between the events. Small objects frequently collide with very rare. And as the solar system ages, large when asteroids collide with something, they get integrated into the larger bodies like the tons per year this way from meteors entering its on Earth, a lot more than you may think, but most are tiny objects with sizes ranging from sand These burn up as they enter Earth's atmosphere. on a daily basis? The figure may surprise meteor is likely to be on any given day? basis is around 4m. And every century The objects that manage to survive the Earth's meteorites. These have to be somewhat larger and most of the time what's left of the object a brick. These objects cause large trails in the Every 2,000 years or so, a meteor about atmosphere, causing significant damage to the area associated with it. And then you have objects objects over 10km, that only come around once of anyone alive today encountering such an event about larger objects is that they are also know of all nearby asteroids above the size But smaller, less easy-to-spot meteors are still people were injured in 2013 when the Chelyabinsk Around 7,200 buildings across six cities were no one was fatally injured during this incident. a highly populated region. Needless to This is why it is very important for us to be a chance of happening. One of the ways to do that might be a threat, and we are doing this faster discovered over 20,000 new potentially dangerous 30 new discoveries added each week. Most of do if ever we found an asteroid that was on a was trying to find a solution for with its DART DART was a joint project between NASA and with international partners in Italy, Japan try to redirect an asteroid's path Before DART came along, many different prevent an asteroid collision. If we had enough we could send a spacecraft to ride along with an the presence of the spacecraft could just enough to redirect its orbit slightly out of but in 2015 NASA published an article on their Perhaps a more well-known idea is that of just packed, so exploding them into tiny pieces ought was popularised by films like Armageddon, it as the momentum of the asteroid would be largely If the resultant pieces were big enough, turning a metaphorical bullet heading towards A third idea was about sending reflective fact that as comets pass by the Sun and giving them added propulsion away from travelled to an asteroid and reflected sunlight attempt to cause similar outgassing, letting path of Earth with its own released gasses. the simplest solution, and one that with a comet - to directly impact the it just hard enough to knock it off course. planners needed to greenlight a suitable test on Dimorphos. This asteroid was first discovered a binary system, orbiting around the larger Spacewatch Project in Arizona. Dimorphos is the 780 m Didymos, and has an orbital period of kilometre from its larger neighbour. The system approach to Earth in October 2022, coming within since 2003 - meaning this was the perfect time NASA to choose Dimorphos as their target - it it was not so close as to be on a collision that even once knocked off course, the With their target set, NASA needed to build the Compared to other spacecraft, DART doesn't have refrigerator and weighs just 610 kilograms, estimated weight of 5 billion kilograms. called DRACO (short for Didymos Reconnaissance as well as sensors and an autonomous navigation secondary spacecraft called LICIACube[A2] - making Built by the Italian Space Agency, ASI, LICIACube navigation system designed to separate from DART recording the impact and its aftermath with you heard that correctly, Star Wars fans.) only about 30cm long. It would fly by the asteroid The DART spacecraft was also designed to between sending and receiving instructions caused DART needed to locate the moonlet, detect and then aim itself appropriately. This autonomous optical navigation system could and detect the target, and then And surprisingly all this would happen After blasting off on November 23, 2021, on a months in transit. In the 4 hours leading up DART's internal navigation system took SMART Nav System put the spacecraft on its final Dimorphos became visible on camera, taking up where you can see both Dimorphos and its parent to its target at a speed of 22,000 km per hour, spectacular view. In this image, taken just 3 Dimorphos is a loose pile of rubble, essentially This remarkable photograph is DART's final fully 12 kilometres, a mere 2 seconds before impact. per pixel. And here, finally, is DART's last, interrupted by DART's previously scheduled, shall this is my favourite of these images. drama [A3] and intensity of the moment, as though when DART completed its 17.5-million-kilometre DART did what it was designed to do with the ingenuity of those of NASA. Here is the entire video you see corresponds to the final 5.5 minutes some of the images look a bit blurred. That's causing vibrations to the spacecraft and its the speed involved. It hit such a tiny object! in focus at all, imagine how quickly the camera Now, I'm sure you're itching to know whether of the suspense, the answer is: yes! In fact, Before DART's kinetic impact, NASA defined period of at least 73 seconds. Yet based on what Dimorphos's orbit by a full 32 minutes, from 11 Even with a margin of error of plus or minus A truly remarkable outcome. The impact the equivalent of nearly 5 tons of TNT, and asteroid's surface, pretty big considering It was also enough to change the shape itself. Dimorphos's orbit was originally very this path became more elongated. The orbital time before settling on 11 hours, 22 minutes and 3 Dimorphos had what is known as an Oblate ball. Afterwards, it had become a Triaxal It's fascinating to consider the forces that shape to occur. It also highlights the fluffy loosely tied together by gravity, it increases happen, if hit with the right impact. margins of variability, scientists know that even change enough to ever cross paths with Earth. But nudge early enough in advance can impact its But why did the impact shorten Dimorphos's orbit? Dimorphos closer to Didymos, which in turn, sped through observations from optical telescopes here Research Telescope in Chile. (SOAR also happened encounter, including this breathtaking photograph after impact making it look like a comet.) Because fluctuates as Dimorphos passes through the shadow tracking the light curve, scientists can calculate further supported by radar data collected by DART and Earth-bound telescopes weren't the closest images of the crash scene were captured previously mentioned, LICIACube separated from flyby using its autonomous navigation systems. LICIACube flew past Dimorphos to photograph the Here is an action-packed image of Dimorphos in the foreground. Notice the huge plumes of seem to be spiralling, almost like tendrils changed directions as the plume grew. We think of the asteroid, as impact tests on finer yield similar ejection patterns. This is a with Dimorphos on the rightmost side. Notice how huge clouds of material splashed up by the impact. action of imaging the aftermath of DART's series of images from Hubble showing the number. Notice how some of the plumes look like some of these "rays" appear curved. Why? As of the impact from the visible spectrum of light, the infrared spectrum. This is pretty impressive, than Webb was meant to be able to track . The impact and continues until 5 hours afterwards. the material released from impact. I also love the spiralling plumes emanating from the asteroid. continue to study the data from DART's impact. But the future by Hera. Hera is a follow-up mission Agency, that launched on 7th October 2024 Carrying a sophisticated payload a spectrometer and an altimeter, once it size, shape and composition of the crater left Hera will conduct observations of Dimorphos's will not only advance our understanding of the nuanced understanding of how a NEO's physical momentum, as well as how kinetic energy transfers will allow for a greater understanding of DART's improving deflection technologies in the future. Surveyor, which aims to discover at least and it feels like humanity for the first time by the kind of world-ending impact that likely track of most NEOs, but some asteroids like dark much visible light. NEO Surveyor is proposed to for such objects by taking infrared readings, heat they radiate when they are warmed by the approach Earth from our blindspots, such as ones which ground-based telescopes might miss due being detected, the technology proven by DART So, there we have it: everything you Right now, we've barely scratched the surface at what this mission has accomplished, it taken a bold and promising first step. So do think we'll have to use this technology within If you remember a few months ago I made patreon allows me to have more creative well I was so touched by your response and to everyone who signed up so for the last few astronaut pins they've just arrived in the I'll be sending one of these to every single like one you can still join and you'll still ship them before November the 29th so make sure on this limited edition pin and as always possible thanks for watching I really want on patreon it's really becoming a thriving messages and comments over there if you'd like description to become an Asom note and bring the you join you'll be able to watch the whole and submit questions to our team once again a team meanwhile click the link to this playlist