This video was made possible by Skillshare, teach you just about anything. In the fall of 1959, an enormous Soviet aircraft This plane is unlike anything in the west. It's the largest airliner the world has And it's driven by four of the most powerful the plane to nearly 900 km/h, which is faster This Soviet airliner is about to make a big for United States. In the mid-1950's, the Soviet Union got unlike his predecessors. For one, he's more open to engaging with [Khrushchev] You're a lawyer of Capitalism, [Nixon] All that I can say, from the way you would have made a good lawyer yourself. Nearly everyone agrees, Khrushchev is a showman, Soviet superiority. And in 1955, the new leader gets a chance Meeting in Geneva, Switzerland for a Cold and the Soviet Union. As world leaders descend onto Geneva Airport, U.S. President Eisenhower lands in a four A large, state-of-the-art American airliner. And Khrushchev lands in this. A plane half the size of Eisenhower's. And he's mortified by the optics because to stand toe-to-toe. But small short-range airliners like the IL-14 produces in the early 1950's. And that means that flying across the country's multiple stops for refueling, making for a But, there is a Soviet plane available that in half the time. It's just not an airliner. It's a plane meant to be loaded with bombs, But converting this intercontinental bomber get the Soviet Union a new long range airliner. Because the country desperately needs one, expanding by the day Just weeks after the Geneva Summit, the Tupolev the TU-95 bomber into a VIP transport. Engineers will remove bombing and protective compartments into its narrow fuselage. Khrushchev would access his VIP compartment Lucky, this frankliner wasn't the only plane Because a second parallel project aimed to And to do it, engineers would keep the plane's but they'd mount them lower to accommodate a wider fully pressurized fuselage. The airliner would also receive new stabilizers, And the first prototype was ready in just Turns out, starting with a TU-95 strategic The TU-114 holds the distinction of being It could reach an incredible 870 km/h.These The 114's turboprop engines are the most the plane's enormous contra-rotating propellers Also jet-like was the airliner's 35 degree of nearly 40,000 feet. And in 1958, this was also the largest airliner, Not until the Boeing 747 would larger plane But while the 114 was still undergoing testing, United States. And it would be the first ever by a Soviet The Tu-116 converted bomber was ready to make But touching down in the United States In a bomber was one thing. Khrushchev would also have to crawl out the So he demanded taking the 114. But the airliner wasn't ready. Not only was the 144 still undergoing testing, which had formed around the engines. Still, Khrushchev was dead-set on making a On September 15, 1959, Khrushchev's 114 took 8,000 km journey to the United States. Most of the trip would take the airliner over So precarious was the situation, engineers swimming pool just to see how it might float Along the way, nearly every available Soviet sign of distress. And onboard, a team of engineers holed up monitoring equipment to spot any sign of trouble But despite having to battle 160 km/h head admirably. [Reporter] An interesting and historic arrival and The huge TU-114 airliner bringing Mr. Khrushchev President Eisenhower was there to meet the The last time they met was in Geneva, four Khrushchev got his grand entrance, and the the world. By 1961 the 114's development was complete Early versions were equipped with some pretty Divided into three-classes ranging from economy, sleeping cabins and a dining lounge. Early 144's even had a full size kitchen The 114's impressive range opened up Moscow and Tokyo. But while the plane's maximum speed was cruising speed was usually more modest to And then there was the noise. This was one of loudest planes ever produced. Its four enormous turboprops would have made And the vibration could cause dinnerware to But the 114 stood out for it's reliability And it would go on to carry over six million accident, making it quite possibly the safest But by the mid-1960's, airports in the west And the Soviet Union's only long range airliner In 1967, a new long range jet-powered soviet And that meant that the 114 was quickly removed flying mainly within Soviet borders. In total, 32 of these speedy turboprops were 16 years, until they were finally retired 3D modelling is a powerful tool. Because with it, you can create just about And you've probably noticed I use it in The modeling software I use is SketchUp, but And the best place to start learning 3D modeling Because they've got amazing classes that'll Like Olivar Villar's excellent introductory I'm working through his class to see if next level, because it's got some pretty And that's what I really love about SkillShare. With over 23 thousand classes at your fingertips, right in and learn whatever is you want to more advanced. A premium subscription to Skillshare, is less And if you're one of the first 500 people below you get 2 months for absolutely free