Voiceover: Some people's mean things like the or the entirety of everything, or the universe, or God, or forever. In math, all a number needs to be infinite is to be bigger than any finite number. No infinite number is going to behave like one of the badly named Uh! Who decided to call them that? An infinite number can than any finite number or it can be a whole lot bigger than that. They don't only come in different sizes, they come in completely different flavors. In this video all I want to of the many flavors of infinity that have been discovered so far. I want to give you a feel like you have a feel for the the even twoness of two, Countable infinity is the infinity of ... it's the infinity of of adding up one plus to get infinity, or adding a half plus a to get one. This one is still the but one isn't a huge number. The way I see it, countable infinity isn't It's just that infinite plus than it really is. We use one to describe big one person, one hour, one photon and accountably infinite seems incomprehensible or impossible. Math doesn't know or care You want to use finite numbers and particles and stuff, that's not infinity's problem. Countable infinity is not a number, it's a mathematical description that applies to many and functions and things. Aleph null on the other hand is a number, a meta number of sorts. It's the number of counting numbers. It's the first infinite cardinal number in an infinite series of It's the only countably infinite one. It's the precise number the number of digits of pi. If countable infinity is a series of individual piercing lights along an infinite shoreline, aleph null is a reflection in the water of the stabbing lights. They wave and flow and reorder themselves to do things like make aleph and aleph null squared equals aleph null. Aleph null is a number and you but it's not going to react the same way a badly named Then there's the ordinals, Another kind of number entirely where the lights can't flow they're in a swamp and the lights congeal into puddles of infinite light, the countably infinite ordinal omega is an ordinal number with as aleph null. All those infinite lights and if you add a light to of course it can congeal and it's still omega light. When you add a light in the distance after infinite other the light is trapped behind the horizon. It's stuck in order beyond the last of these infinite lights. It can't just glom on to the light pile after the last of these infinite lights because there is no last light. This is infinite so it Omega plus one is larger than omega and larger than one plus omega. Obviously, infinite are non-cumulative. Those infinite countably infinite ordinals and each different infinite ordinal is a different pattern of congealed light. Ordinals behave a little omega plus one plus two But two plus omega plus three The non-cumulativity lets you of countable infinity without accidentally making For omega plus three plus omega, the three gloms on to the second omega and then you get omega times two which is different from two times omega where they just meld in to each other. You can do things like omega to the omega, to the omega, to the omega ... Okay, I'm getting destructed. Anyway, ordinals are cool. There are bigger cardinal numbers, infinities that are than the infinity you get by counting which are cleverly called The infinity that a ... First, the uncountable smooth but individual, a dense sea of things, but any two no matter how close are still measurably different, they don't get stuck to each other. They can be ordered into a line yet they cannot be lined up one by one. The cardinality of the reals, which may or may not be aleph one independent of standard axioms, can be congealed into whole Then there's bigger transfinite cardinals, bigger boxes containing bigger infinities. In fact, there's an infinite infinite sizes of infinity, aleph omega, an infinite ordinals with each of those cardinalities, omega one's, omega two's. I hear omega three's but if there's infinite kinds of infinity it should make you wonder just what kind of infinity Well, more than countable, that number is big they're infinite. But the number of kinds of infinities is too big to be a number. If you took all the cardinal numbers and put them in a box, you can't because they don't fit in a box. Each greater aleph allows infinite omegas and each greater omega provides It's like how you can try that contains all boxes, but then it can't because the So you make a bigger box to contain it but then that box doesn't contain itself just like the number of finite numbers is bigger than any finite number. The number of infinite numbers is bigger than any infinite number or at least no one has figured out a way to make it work without Infinity isn't just about There's the infinities of calculus, useful work courses treated delicately like special cases. Flaring up and dying down with the sole purpose of to their limits. Your everyday infinities but they get so little credit. And there's hyper real numbers that extend the reals to close and soft, no drift of tiny numbers on your other numbers that Hyper reals can describe any number system that adds in infinite which you can do to varying degrees. The fun part is that hyper reals, unlike ordinals and cardinals, follow the ordinary rules or arithmetic which means you can do If you divide one by a decimally close to zero you get a number thrown Likewise, you can divide finite numbers by infinitely large numbers to get infinitely small The super real numbers do but more so than there's surreal numbers. Open, vast, stretching in all dimensions then flowering again in filling every possible space and then unfolding impossible space. The surreals encompass the the super reals and also of the ordinals which means the surreal numbers There is no set of all surreal numbers because there's too They're basically the most They're provably the largest ordered field depending on your axioms and You can do arithmetic to them, add, subtract, multiply, multiplicative and additive identities. You can do things like infinity minus one and infinity divided by two, everything works except dividing by zero. You can divide one by you get infinitely large ones but you still can't divide by zero without ruining everything. Which is why zero is a much weirder number than any of these infinities. There's other sorts of infinities using other different ways If you think of the individual numberiness of the natural counting numbers as coming from the unique they have in them, then defining infinity as being an infinite amount Each natural counting number also has a unique prime factorization. Many people think of the has being what makes up There's a way in which than it is to 17, and they're The supernatural numbers &quot;Yup, the natural numbers &quot;from their unique What if you allow infinite prime factors in a plus one sort of number definition? Two times two times two times two ... is the same as seven times seven ... In a prime factor definition these two infinities are they feel different. Supernatural numbers can and you can find the of infinite supernatural number A and infinite supernatural number B. What you can't do is add them. They don't really work that 16 and 17 are plus one buddies. In fact, you can't really supernatural number is Sure, those supernatural numbers include the natural numbers. But in the supernatural version the natural numbers don't You can, however, order which does put 16 closer to 32 than 17. It's funny because the p-adic numbers are like the most infinite They have their digits going but this is just a notation thing. P-adic numbers are, &quot;Okay, &quot;Now, let's complete the number system &quot;to be this weird alternative &quot;to the badly named so Let's face it, the badly aside from rationals are a There's tons of awesome number systems that don't contain infinite numbers like all the types of Though you can apply the surreal numbers to the complex numbers, you get the surcomplex numbers which seem maximal if you want numbers that are cumulative and divide and stuff. There's something like would be tempting. Anyway, there's lots of infinite numbers but those are all numbers. What about infinite space, What about the line that turns it into a circle? That's the thing, positive infinity equals There's only all of projective geometry where you casually treat infinity just like any other point. You can also divide by Yey! Projective geometry. In projective geometry at infinity. While infinite space could your space is in a distance sort of way, it could also refer to Infinite dimensional A Hilbert space is the with an arbitrary number of dimensions and it could be countably or any cardinal number of dimensions. You could take any ordinal number and turn it into an ordinal space which brings us to topology. Topology deals with like lines and spheres and mobius strips to figure out how they with no regard for distance. You can imagine taking and stretching it into a longer one and then stretching it infinitely Or you could take an infinitely long line and contract it down to a point. This line segment looks than an infinite line. There's a trick, this it's like the interval but not including zero and one. If you were a point on this line and wanted to get to the very end, well, what's the last It's smaller than .9 repeating so you can just keep higher and higher and which is the exactly the when travelling along that topology sees this line segment as exactly the same but your usual infinite line In topology there's a longer kind of line very appropriately, yet The long line is so long a finite line segment to be a long line even if you stretch it infinitely long. Likewise, the long line Here's one part of the long but even if you grab them and stretch them towards you can never get them from here to there. Infinite stretching isn't enough. These points are part of the same line but they don't connect to each other. That's how long the long line is, it's really long which is just as ridiculous and awesome and entirely mathematically provable as any of these other stuff. Finally, there is the not big omega, absolute infinity. This biggest infinity would necessarily have to contract itself like the box containing all boxes. Even though it's not a some mathematicians &quot;I know this isn't really a thing &quot;and I can't do math to it, sort of way. Those are just the many meanings of infinity that I know of and I probably made some mistakes describing the things because these things are of mathematics. Cardinals come from set theory. Surreals come out of game theory. Supernaturals comes from field theory. Ordinal spaces are used in topology. Hilbert spaces are used in Infinity lets you do the and infinite decimals let you avoid zeroes in computational geometry. In fact, it's finite [unintelligible] or course of arithmetic. A version of arithmetic that can have its strength quantified by applying ordinal analysis a part of proof theory. PRA only has a proof theoretic That is some weak sauce. Anyway, I'm going to becomes infinite. Let me know if know of any and I'll make a list because apparently no one has done that before.