How did the Hellenisation of Byzantium Unfold: "Was the Byzantine Empire the Introduction: a medieval state known to those who lived in it role in the histories of many parts of the world. and its theological, legal, and philosophical historical contradictions. One of these is its the successor state to Ancient Rome, an Imperium its territories were concentrated in regions where Christianity, the vehicle with which it influenced liturgical language. This form of the Roman empire is nowadays seen as part of Greek history. The Empire associate with the Ancient Greeks? On the Ages was, in many ways, the inheritor of classical Byzantine Christianity was traditionally seen as we will unpack these contradictions. We will see culture, ethnicity, and politics and how this Byzantium's worldview universalisms like to our video on the process of Hellenisation in Background of Hellenisation: meant to have transitioned into the use of in the 6th - 8th Centuries CE. This conception is Byzantium became Greek in identity after this has happened is more complex, as is the question Hellenisation of Byzantium unfolded, we must first to have a historical foundation of this process. moved to Constantinople in 330 CE, Greece and centuries. Rome had annexed Greece nearly four its elites had bouts of anti-Greek sentiment due others had admiration for Greece. In fact, when Empire to Byzantium, the future site of the city of the Gigantomachy, the battle of the Olympians in the city. Moreover, throughout the apex of the considered languages of education and prestige, The Romans preferred the version of Greek culture eastern invasions, after which they perceived they saw as the hedonism of eastern cultures like as superior to the current form of Greek culture. Latin, which was the language of the state and at the highest levels of government, and Greek was still one of the most influential lingua franca, or common tongue, in the Eastern Throughout late antiquity, the western half of and cultural hub of the Roman world increasingly the Greek language rising further in prominence the rise of Christianity, a religion which, in with classical Greek culture. Many early Church philosophy and logic in their theology but were from Christianity that could arise if one became centuries of the Eastern Roman Empire were thus the language of elite and public administration, Moreover, due to Christian influence, things which associated negatively with paganism, yet classical inspiration and enrichment, which many early their faith. Despite these contradictions, to rise in prominence, and by the time of Emperor from Latin to Greek. This process would only Commencement of Hellenisation: reign of Emperor Justinian in the 6th Century or Byzantine Empire, began.. Justinian himself mostly written in Latin. However, his post-534 CE reflecting the slow linguistic shift which of the Empire had been moved from Rome became the primary language of the Eastern Roman culture endured within it, too. Several of from classical Greek myths to promote their the period depict the Byzantine emperor Heraklios Due to the upheavals caused by the Islamic during this period. It became more feudal and more A further shift occurred with the conquests of the the Syriac and Coptic-speaking centers of Syria Eastern Rome and leaving the Greek-speaking hub After the Arab Conquests, many of Eastern Romes' leaving the Byzantines as a now more a conceptual turn occurred; to be 'Roman' the Empire and a Greek speaker at that. The to Greekness often came at the detriment of who still lived in Byzantine territory The contradiction was that Roman citizenship and descent for those who were not However, Orthodox Christianity and even the of being 'Roman', in essence hijacking the one based on more ethnicity. Over the 6th to 9th of administration continued shifting from Latin to where the Byzantines maintained provinces well population existed, and the ancestors of the southern Italy to this day. As Byzantium's Empire to a primarily Greek polity, its neighbours States such as the Carolingians or the Arabs but equally saw it as the land of the Greeks. As the meaning of "Rome" became synonymous Tensions between Christianity and Hellenisation: Orthodox Christianity. As we previously stated, had a strained relationship as the latter so how did the two interact and reconcile many Christian monks and priests in Byzantium were many recognized and tried to resolve the tension Both Basil of Caesarea and Gregory Nazianzus Greek thought and thus worthy of adoption identify which things were bad from a Christian emphasis on Athens with its many philosophical and one where the temptation of paganism was like Eusebios of Caesarea, advocated for Greek philosophy in Christianity, showing in the Byzantine Empire had towards classical By the later Byzantine period of the 9th Century had almost exclusively become Greek, at least many priests and monks had begun to tackle traditions. One such man was the Byzantine CE. Psellos was a major yet controversial figure, the Pandidaktirion of Constantinople. Psellos philosophical tradition of neo-Platonism. Many since, but Psellos was a clear departure from on the importance of Greek thinking, considering thinking. By connecting the two traditions in his humans being able to use both. It should also be mystical or magical practices within Christianity; mysticism themselves, and Psellos also wrote study of demons, many of which were influenced Tensions between Romanness and Hellenisation: Hellenic aspects of Byzantine Culture also came Roman, a conflict which was ultimately resolved. Greek historian, for his anthropological studies. understand other cultures through their diplomatic an impact on the perception of others, and thus Greek-speaking category. As Greek became more synonymous with the Greek language. Non-Greek but not ethnic kin by the Byzantines. This is Many Slavic peoples converted to Christianity part of a cultural network called the Byzantine Despite being Orthodox Christian, the Slavs were only if they assimilated into Greek culture. mixture of the Roman, Greek, and Christian ideals. the people, much like in Roman and Hellenistic Emperor was also a Christian institution, though Emperor was seen as appointed by God, or as manager of God's creation. Both forms of rulership synthesis of Greek, Roman, and Christian ideals of shows that as time went on, Byzantine society and Christian worldviews in both how it perceived The Nature of Byzantine Hellenism: this new Hellenism, infused with manifested in Byzantine society. Byzantine Hellenism took a few forms and had various Byzantine elite. One of these was the influence of Byzantine literature. Evidence of Ancient can be found in the Alexiad by Princess Anna Princess's father, Alexios I of the Komnenian love of Ancient Greek traditions, the Byzantines known as Atticisms. Atticisms were attempts which was spoken in Athens during the era of was not the only place from where the Byzantines for instance, borrowed from the prose styles of Jewish and Aramaic thought were always present in of heavenly realms. However, the shift to Greek itself in parts of Classical Greek thought. appeared in Byzantine texts. However, the Greek in order to satisfy the Christian sensibilities the one who delivers souls to the Afterlife in instance, in some later medieval poems written the half-Saracen half-Greek warrior Digenis Greek Grim Reaper only wins by complaining examples show the remnants of Byzantine Hellenism the lands once ruled by the Empire. Byzantium's It was influenced by other Orthodox cultures, but it was Greek-speaking and perceived itself Nationalisation of Hellenisation: continued to turn, Byzantine Hellenism faced a by Islamic Empires like the Seljuks happened in after opportunistic alliances with Byzantium, Constantinople in 1204 CE. After this, Byzantine irrevocably hostile to the Latins of Western the further fusing of the Greek language with the ruler of Nicaea, was an important element Greek culture and aimed to promote it both short reign in Nicaea. This continued even after and restored the Byzantine Empire, with Byzantine from the Catholics and more focused on their During this Late Byzantine period, the distinction quasi-ethnic in nature. This is not the same as development. But the Hellenism of Byzantium was express opposition to the Latin west. This is many Byzantine notables were not keen to become conquest of Constantinople by the Ottomans identity became the defining feature of Ottoman educated Patriarchs in Constantinople who studied 'Yunan', the Turkish word for the Greeks, but in tongue and liturgy, but Christian in faith, Porte. It was Byzantine Hellenism's religious Conclusion: the Hellenisation of Byzantium had foundations in of the Eastern Roman Empire. It also had a Orthodox-Christian Greek-Speaker of Byzantium. Justinian and accelerated under Heraklios, the finally exploded by the Early Mediaeval Period and Paleologoi. It even became quasi-ethnic, and Roman ideals into one grand and unique parts of itself that Byzantium came to define legacies in world history, as illustrious More videos on cultural and social history are please consider liking, commenting, and would not be possible without our kind whose ranks you can join via the links get early access to our videos, and much more. This is the Kings and Generals