Report to the captain, enemy aircraft spotted at 60 degrees port Three thousand feet high, fly towards me Air Alert yes Huxiao, you are responsible for the height, Wenzhan, you are responsible for the left and right Front main gun, gun well Report to the captain, all ready OK, one shot, two shots, three shots. 60 degrees port, altitude 3,000 The enemy planes are flying towards me, ready to fight All positions, ready to shoot Exhibition I implicated you. What are you talking about? We are brothers. Target, leader Left two, high six Left two holes Goliu-dong Prepare Each battle position Fire Fire Hit me hard Brother, brother, get up hidden Home, Home Tiger Roar Tiger roar, hurry up Tiger Roar Wenzhan, I'll cooperate with you. good Hold on, get close and then hit clear Prepare Fire I don't fight, I don't fight Come here, call Prepare Little Japan, you all go to hell Wenzhan, hit me hard Go to hell, little Japan! Go to hell, little Japan Hit it, hit it Hit Wenzhan, hit it Wenzhan, we hit it We hit it, Tiger roar, we hit it We won, we won According to the summary of some time ago, we are very clear Large formation dive bombing Not only can we not achieve our expected purpose Also vulnerable to enemy fire So we have to change from a large formation to a small formation When the fleet enters the battle zone Immediately split into two echelons The first echelon sank the enemy ship The second team cleared the channel yes It's another sunny day. Report, ten enemy planes spotted on the port side. Heading towards our ship What? The cross? Report enemy aircraft spotted to starboard Battle Alert Goldman Sachs I don't want to work with you. It was King Yu who asked me to fill the vacancy. Cut the crap Brothers united in purpose can break any obstacle Prepare Report: A large number of aircraft are appearing in the southeast direction My dear teacher, why haven't you left Jiangyin yet? If I can't fight on the ship, can I not watch the battle? How many warships did the Japanese invaders dispatch? No battleships, only planes No less than fifty airplane Last time Sha Huxiao got drunk and caused trouble The spearhead is directed at our deployment Saying that we underestimated Japan's air force It seems he was right. Direction, forward Height 60 Prepare put Brothers, the time has come for a decisive battle Show the courage of the Chinese Navy Hit me hard Little Japan put put Send someone to blow up the mast immediately What mast? The mast of the Kuo Kuang It revealed the location of the shipwreck. Once the gap is blown, the blockade will collapse. Report, Sha Huxiao left the engine room without permission What about blowing up the mast? put put Sha Huxiao finally made it It was really fun to shoot down two planes There were two and a half planes, and one of them ran away with a trail of black smoke. That's three. Three is not enough, we should shoot them all down Brothers, hit me hard beat Pass on the family line Pass on the family line Pass on the lineage, pass on the lineage Chuan Zong, medical soldier, call the medical soldier quickly Goldman Sachs Shengzhong Pass on the family line You are a man I recognize you as my brother I recognize you as my brother Terrible This time, the more than 100 kilograms will be fed to the fish. Didn't the cat master tell our fortunes? We are fine. The cat fairy can't even save himself when crossing the river Report to the Chief of Staff The battleship HMS National Guard was severely damaged This is the first ship The sixth ship Order All warships weigh anchor and cruise for combat Yes, weigh anchor. Ready to sail set sail yes Brothers, the cat fairy has appeared Engine room start Why not anchor? The windlass was blown up and can't be raised. Manual anchor Is there anyone alive? Weigh the anchor! Weigh the anchor! have Wenzhan, be careful Exhibition Exhibition Wenzhan, hold on! Wenzhan, get up! Report, the cabin is flooded. Plug the loophole quickly yes The engine room was blown open and the ship was flooded. The ship is sinking What, repeat it? The engine room was leaking, water was coming in, and the ship was sinking. Abandon Ship Prepare to abandon ship yes Brothers, abandon the ship. Xu Shouzi, hurry up, hurry up Wenzhan, are you okay? Old Ghost Come on I told you to run, come on Goldman Sachs, abandon ship, run! I haven't used up all my bullets yet. stop On-site defense Report to the captain, we haven't reached the defense fort yet. Do you know the art of war? With so many people gathered together, the Japanese could destroy the pot with just a few shots. The brigade will be divided into two echelons A team went down the mountain to defend the fortress Another team is here to assist Who will defend the fort? What do you think? I'll go no problem, but what about the grenades and the sword? All yours How many people give me Go and shout I now appoint you as the captain of the first echelon No matter how many people follow you, I won't stop them If no one wants to go Turn right Brothers, listen. Now I am the captain of the first echelon Under the captain's order, he went down the mountain to defend the fortress. If you want to follow me, please stand up. The construction at the foot of the mountain is complete I guarantee you a complete victory. To regain all the lost face for our navy OK, count me in Manly Anything else? We can't be outdone by Master Sha Count me in Count me in too Count me in, count me in, count me in You guys are willing to die, but I am reluctant to bury you. remember Once you hear the call to assemble, retreat immediately. Any more? A group of talented people who dream of sailing on the sea First, the boat was lost. Then I went up to the fortress Finally, I was encouraged to go to the front line We are a group of stranded whales, trapped and fighting We want to prove it to others. Although the ocean is lost But we still breathe We still have the passion and courage to shed Stop This is the fortress I said it's bold. You, didn't you say the construction was complete? Where is the fortification? This map clearly states, is there a mistake? Stop acting, we are all clear-sighted people Brothers If there is no trench, dig your own Good digging This is where the Japanese soldiers were buried. If you don't dig well, you'll bury yourself. Walk Go, dig Walk Guys, let me reiterate. The trenches should be dug deeper, but not too wide It can accommodate two people side by side. Move quickly Trenches are not only their own shelters It is the enemy's graveyard. Work harder. Brother, please write down your name and hometown address. Quick digging Xu Shouzi arrive Are you digging a rat hole? I think it's about the same. I'm thin. It's not digging a grave. yes Wait, write down your name and hometown address first Okay, old ghost. This trench of yours can be used as a cellar. I dare not say the cellar I think it looks like my engine room. Write down your name and hometown address. Afraid that I'll slip away Highly Bold You are so stupid. This captain is clearly asking us to be cannon fodder This Yu Yanwang is even more sinister Let you be the cannon fodder among the cannon fodder Why are you following me even though you know you're just cannon fodder? I'm stupider than you. All right? I know you want to vent your anger. Don't worry, I guarantee you'll be satisfied Do you want this? I want two. Two, wishful thinking Take the dollar, one dollar a stick Don't look at it. They are all born by their parents. What if someone is buried here? I have to tell my parents. You also know that this battle is difficult. With you here, I'm not afraid Show you Shengzhong Last time I went to blow up the mast Being thrown into the water by a cannonball I choked on the water and was completely dazed. As soon as I open my eyes Full of sunshine Guess who I saw? Who? Guan Dafu He was smiling. No utterance Extend your arms He lifted me out of the water. I looked for him again, but he was gone. I survived This sky full of stars Maybe it's about Dafu He's looking at us. Don't shoot upwards, or you'll expose your target. The enemy's snipers are not vegetarians No smoking Whoever smokes will be shot. I was only captain for half a day. The tone is becoming more and more like Yu Yanwang Put out the cigarette, be careful of being shot in the back OK, I'll listen to you. The Japanese army is coming, the Japanese army is coming The Japanese army is coming Don't shoot, don't shoot Brothers, don't shoot. Don't Shoot Pass me the password Don't shoot without my order. No talking, no coughing Even farts and burps are held back. One by one yes Captain's Command No captain's orders No shooting, no talking Report, the enemy has stopped firing Army or Navy Just fired briefly, didn't try it out What about weapons and equipment? Only rifles. What about the distance, troop strength, and firepower distribution? Not found out Fool Rest on the spot and attack after daybreak Xu Shouzi Xu Shouzi Xu Shouzi Xu Shouzi Wake up, Xu Shouzi Xu Shouzi Wake up, Xu Shouzi How did he die? Xu Shouzi Old Ghost Who fired the shot? It's me. I heard the gunfire. That was the artillery and the Japanese army bombarding each other Our Fort The Japanese, the Japanese are coming Tiger Roar fight back Fight back, fight back Come on, get out of the way, get out of the way Get out of the way! Get out of the way! Report to the captain, Goldman Sachs and the Japanese are in a fight I have ears, blow the assembly call Should we go down the mountain to reinforce? Just us Isn't that just beating a dog with a meat bun? Awesome Met an opponent Report to the general that we have encountered the enemy The opponent is very fierce It should be the elite troops of the Chinese Army yes Lying down Old ghost, go and reinforce the right wing, go quickly yes Brothers, you guys hold here. yes The navy is actually the Chinese navy Colonel, the general asks if reinforcements are needed Report to the general, we are not facing the army It's the Chinese Navy, no reinforcements are needed They can't be our opponents. yes Captain, the Japanese are retreating. Stop shooting and save your bullets team leader Captain, the battle should be over. The war is not over. Someone was beaten to death I'm out of bullets. We are running out of bullets, use them sparingly Where's the old ghost? Old ghost, come back soon Old Ghost Old ghost, come back quickly, it's dangerous Old ghost, come back soon Tiger roar, you cover Goldman Sachs Guys, cover! Old ghost, retreat quickly, quickly Old ghost, you are crazy Don't want your life It's all bullets Brothers Goldman Sachs He deserved to die What a pity My thirty-one brothers Everyone is ready to evacuate at any time yes Be careful How about it good Tiger Roar Where did that shot go? The medal my grandfather gave me Saved my life I'm fine. My hand was burned Help me Walk How is he? No more gas Just bury it on the spot Chen Wei Sergeant Native of Shandong Be careful Old ghost, go and see who he is It's Wang Youcai Bury it Wang Youcai Sergeant Native of Fujian Men don't shed tears easily Why are you crying? Stop crying. A man can only bleed, not cry Old ghost, get up. Go find Yu Yanwang and ask for reinforcements Captain, we are running out of bullets. We can't hold on any longer. No bullets, but I have swords and grenades. Even if I have to bite them with my teeth, I will chew the Japanese soldiers into pieces I'll check the terrain. Be bold, you are different I obey you This time we lost nine brothers in total The Japanese died more than us. They dare not come up easily. If you were a Japanese soldier How would you break through this defense? I can I will use mortars Shengzhong, where are you going? You, you, and you Collect firewood and cook immediately Without rice and pot, what are you going to cook? This is called a smoke bomb. Run back a hundred steps, make a fire, go quickly yes Be safe. Report Is the mortar ready? Be ready First, bombard the enemy's fortifications with mortars. Then attack yes Colonel, look! Chinese soldiers eat He actually exposed his position Just a pig Mortars in place Smoke-centric Intensive bombing of the front, back, left and right yes Brothers The enemy will definitely fire mortars first Hold on, wait till they finish fighting. Once the enemy approaches Feed them grenades first. Use the big knife to fight them, do you hear me? yes You, how did you become a thief? I want to throw a few for Guan Dafu The old ghost is back, the old ghost is back The old ghost is back, the old ghost is back Old Ghost The whole team You're the only one left Report to the Captain Nine brothers died in the battle just now. The bullets are running out. Please order reinforcements. Captain, the fight is on again. Hurry up and order reinforcements! Hurry up and order reinforcements! This is the sound of mortars. The enemy's firepower is too strong. We went Not enough to fill the blast hole. Yu Yanwang You usually call me brothers. Are they brothers in Goldman Sachs? Whether to order reinforcements You don't give orders, do you? Give me the bullets, I'm going back. Old Ghost Give me the bullet We all go, we all go We all go, we all go reinforce The enemy's fortifications have been destroyed Give me a rush Captain, the Japanese are coming again Give me the bayonet stop Prepare Fourth from left High Six Left four, high six Left four, high six Left four, high six This side Three from the right, high five Three from the right, high five Three from the right, high five Directly in front of the target, prepare left and right cast No, retreat. rush Tiger Roar, it's me completion All finished Why didn't you send reinforcements earlier? Why didn't you send reinforcements earlier? Do you think I don't want to? Captain, there are still people alive. Highly Bold Highly Bold Highly Bold You are still alive You are still alive, Gao Dada Not only is my father not dead I still won. The Navy is not a coward The Navy wins The Navy wins The Navy wins The Navy wins The Navy wins The Navy wins The Navy wins The Navy wins The Navy wins The Navy wins The Navy wins The Navy wins The Navy wins The Navy wins