Greetings, my friends! Russian swamps are once again howling because of total russophobia in Ukraine. The loudest russophobic hysteria takes place in Ukraine. It turns out that people from Skabeeva's program have watched my issue and were burned severely. This is Serhiy Sternenko, the political activist accused of murder, who accuses the Olympics bronze champion Maguchykh of a cosmic level betrayal. This is one of my previous issues about Yaroslava Maguchykh, our Olympic bronze medalist, who hugged a Russian woman. And saw nothing wrong about that. She didn't find anything wrong and this scandal has been raging for three days now, and she is still silent. Especially since our prize-winner is also a serviceman of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and the russian athlete Lasitskene is a serviceman of the Armed Forces of the russian federation. The same armed forces that kill Ukrainians almost every day. And while Yaroslava herself is silent, apparently hoping that everyone will forget about this scandal, another one of our Olympians, Stanislav Goruna, decided to stand up for her, the karate specialist wrote that sports is out of politics. It would be better if he just kept quiet, or listened to smart athletes, such as Yevhen Selin, a football player. Well, now we can't say that sports is out of politics or war is out of politics. It's all politics. Today, Ukraine is saying goodbye to Yaroslav Semenyaka, a serviceman, our defender, who was killed on the same day our winner was hugging a russian serviceman. But Stanislav Goruna somehow doesn't give a damn about all these episodes, which are called &quot;war&quot;, and for him it's just &quot;out of politics&quot;. And he answers me in his comments, as if he were making fun of the death of our serviceman. However, this is not surprising, given the fact that he himself went to the russian federation, was photographed there with sports symbols, which have a tricolor on them. But what infuriates me the most is not even that, but the fact that a politician tells us about &quot;sports out of politics&quot;, because Goruna is also a member of one of the local councils. Although what else can we expect from some of our athletes, when even the executive committee of The National Olympic Committee of Ukraine includes outspoken accomplices of the occupants. For example, a member of the OPZZh party Shufrych and Surkis, who also belongs to the same kremlin party. But back to the hysteria on russian federal television. I think the very fact that they got burned so badly by my video, is enough reason for you to just subscribe to my channel, like this video and leave a comment. So here it is. A whole deputy chairman of the state duma of the russian federation Tolstoy declared that all who criticize Maguchikh are, in fact, crazy. To pay attention to the statements of some lunatics ... Seriously? The person who talks this imperial nonsense talks about madness? Listen, Piotr, you are obviously mental, because you deny the already objective reality, which is that Ukraine exists. It is an independent, sovereign state. And for you with your statements it's better to contant a specialist. Simply put, you belong in a nuthouse. Listen, this is a parody of a state. This was stated by a very authoritative parody of a politician. Yes, she hugged, and you will hug, because we are one people. That's all. At this point, I want to mention Yaroslava Maguchykh once again, who by her actions, perhaps reckless, emotional, but it does not justify her, helped the russian propaganda so that now people like Piotr (if they just did it on their television, then hell with it), but they also say in the international arena that we are in fact one people. You see, even the athletes are hugging. We count Ukrainian medals as ours. All together, in one piggy bank. And that's exactly how we will restore the country. We will gather all medals. The essense of russia is in these words. For the russian imperialists, any achievement of Ukrainian athletes, be it our footballers at the Euro Championship, or our athletes at the Olympic Games - this is what they think is an achievement for russia. Because there is no Ukraine for them, they believe that we are a part of russia. They think the same way about Georgia, Moldova, Belarus and Poland, which they are now saying quite openly. We will hug and leave the Poles aside, because it is still our western province. They are no fraternal people to us. They talk about Ukrainians as if we were their slaves. And we will not give you Ukrainians, not a single Ukrainian man, let alone a single Ukrainian woman. I warn seriously. That's our girls. We can be explaining for a long time that russia is an aggressor, that russians are occupants, that they have been waging war against us for eight years, and then our athlete shows up and wipes it all out and helps russian propaganda say things like that. Our beautiful russian Ukrainian gilrs, do you understand? And russians are happy about it, because some not very bright Ukrainians are helping their lies. In other words, we will save our Ukrainian sister. Even if she doesn't ask for it, we'll save her. And we know very well how they &quot;save&quot; (in air quotes) from the examples of the occupied Donbass, the occupied Crimea and thousands of killed Ukrainians. Why are they so mad ... just because it all shows that there is no war. And, in fact, this occupant is absolutely right. Is there no war? Why hug? We keep saying that russia is an aggressor, that it has started a war against us and has been waging it for eight years. Russians say that they are not there, that they have nothing to do with it. And then our athlete, an Olympic medalist, comes out and hugs a russian athlete who is also a serviceman of the armed forces of the russian federation. And of course it helps to develop lies that there is no war. Because if there was a war, a Ukrainian would not hug an occupant. It is quite logical. Sternenko said that she should be punished. Who is Sternenko? He is a Nazi! For them, everyone who opposes russian aggression is a Nazi. Just absolutely everyone. Anyone who says &quot;russia attacked Ukraine&quot; is a Nazi. But at the same time they somehow turn a blind eye to their federal Nazi propagandists, such as Solovyov, who praised Hitler. Hitler, by the way, was a brave man, he did not escape from the army. Two iron crosses. He fought and fought valiantly. Or there's Anton Raevsky, also russian, who in due time prepared an attempt on me in Odessa, then he was expelled by SBU from Ukraine, he fought in Donbass against our country serving the so-called DNR. So he is a real Nazi. He has a tattoo of Hitler, a tattoo of a swastika and at the same time he is running for the state duma of the russian federation from the LDPR party. Or Milchakov, who also fought in Donbass against Ukraine, and directly says that he is a Nazi. I'm a Nazi! I'm a Nazi. I can raise my hand. russian Federation is a real Nazi state today. They don't even hide it, but at the same time they call Ukrainians Nazis. And a certain Sergei Sternenko, whose abbreviation is obviously SS. And in russia, apparently, they deny the right to self-defense while defending your life. And Prosecutor General Irina Venediktova can be proud of her titanic work - now she has ideological allies on russian television who also think I'm a murderer, and was not defending mymself during the third contract attack. The customer of which, BTW, is now an ally of President Zelensky. He just killed a man on the street, he was acquitted and now he just walks the streets. Of course he hates her. However, I would recommend that russians be more careful in their statements, especially on russian federal television. And especially when they discuss my video blog. Because I can land my squadrons on them. Squadrons, death squads. That is Sternenko, those are death squads! While I was watching it all, I laughed a lot. But at the same time I was sad, because the reason for Skabeeva to start speaking on her air about fraternal people, and now they will carry it on the international arena, was that a Ukrainian athlete helped the occupants with their propaganda. I hope that our athletes will think more in the future and understand that they can represent Ukraine today precisely because Ukraine exists. And Ukraine exists due to the fact that our defenders are defending Ukraine on the Eastern Front from the russian occupants who want to destroy Ukraine. And there is no reason to hug them.