- [Jared] This is the Soyuz spacecraft. Used by Russia for more than 50 years now. It's considered to be the ever built. In this video, we'll take a and what it looks like on the inside. And then we'll see how it docks to the International Space Station. (electrifying music) This video is sponsored by Skillshare, an online learning community Also, I wanna say thanks and Scott Kelly for their They've each flown on the Soyuz twice, so it was great to get their feedback as I plan this animation. (upbeat music) The Soyuz is a Russian spacecraft that can fit up to three The word cosmonaut means The Soyuz is currently used and astronauts to and from the or ISS. Astronauts from countries have flown on the Soyuz. When the American space the Soyuz spacecraft became to and from the This lasted for almost 10 years. Then during the year 2020, the United States started on the SpaceX Crew Dragon. Nonetheless, the Soyuz still and maintaining the Each Soyuz spacecraft They'll build a brand new one The Soyuz is operated by Roscosmos, this is similar to The Soyuz spacecraft during the space race of the 1960s. The U.S and Russia were in competition to be the first country During this time, the the Apollo spacecraft. Even though the Soyuz never had the chance to be used for a moon landing, it was soon after, repurposed It became a transport vehicle to many space stations over the years. The Russian Salyut Space Stations, there were seven of these, and now the International Space Station. The word Soyuz is a Russian word. This is how it looks in and this is how it looks Soyuz, in fact you can on the side of the spacecraft. The word Soyuz means union, as in the joining or Early Soyuz missions and it wasn't easy at first. There was even a joint mission with NASA and the United States to dock This was called the It was the first man collaboration between two countries in space. The Apollo spacecraft The Soyuz, on the other Each one of these lines of the Soyuz spacecraft This is about 150 flights in total over the last half a century. The Soyuz spacecraft has since the 1960s. But the overall appearance hasn't changed very much. Let's take a look at the Starting in 1967, we have the Soyuz 7K-OK. This was considered the original Soyuz. The 7K referred to lunar missions and the OK is Russian for orbital ship. This version was all about that would be required It had three seats, but the Then we have the Soyuz 7K-T. The T is for transport. There were no solar panels, It had only two seats inside, but this time the crew Soyuz T, this one had solar panels again and it could now fit a crew of three. Then comes to Soyuz TM This had an improved at the front of the spacecraft. Soyuz TMA, which stands for Transport This version allowed more flexibility for taller or shorter crew Soyuz TMA-M the last M This had an upgrade to and reduced unnecessary weight. The latest version is the This had improvements to the communication and navigation systems. There's also the Progress spacecraft, which is based off of However, Progress only carries cargo and supplies to the station. It does not carry a crew inside. Over the years, Soyuz with many Russian Space Stations, and now they both dock to Let's take a look at the most current version, the Soyuz-MS, though a lot of this will be very similar for previous Soyuz versions. The outside of the spacecraft of fabric that provides This keeps the Soyuz from on the inside. The docking mechanism is in the front, we'll learn more about The two antennas for The blister window, to look A docking camera and This is the periscope for On the top, there's a satellite The solar panels to Thrusters on the side and in the back. The main engine is right in the middle. This cover will be opened The Soyuz is made of three the orbital module, the descent module and the service module. The first two modules are pressurized, which means there's air Let's take a closer look at each module. The descent module is It has three seats that are custom molded to each cosmonaut or astronaut. And as you can see, there behind their seats is which includes carbon dioxide The white bags above their head is survival gear that they could use if they needed to, after The instrument panel is here with lots of controls for the spacecraft. In the center, you can look through here to see through the periscope. There's also small windows on each side for the crew to look outside. There's a hatch that can be opened that leads to the Orbital Module. This is the living area Sometimes they call it They store equipment, eat meals, and there's even a toilet in here, but these aren't like the There's a side hatch that will be used to enter the vehicle on the launchpad. It's usually not used when in space. The docking hatch is in the front, and it will be opened once In the very back, we sometimes called the instrument module or the propulsion module. The service module contains fuel tanks, oxygen tanks (gentle music) On the outside of the spacecraft, you can see where the between the different modules. The only part that returns back to Earth is the descent module. The other parts will the Earth's atmosphere at To get the Soyuz spacecraft into space, it is launched inside of a massive rocket, which is called the Soyuz Rocket. The entire launch takes To learn more, you can watch my animation all about the Soyuz launch. After the launch, the Soyuz is orbiting at about 240 kilometers. The ISS is orbiting at a This next part is called This is where the Soyuz will catch up with and attach to the ISS. When the Soyuz launches, it needs to do it at the This is the angle that you are in relation with the Earth's equator. So an orbital inclination of zero degrees, would be orbiting right along the equator. But an orbital inclination of 90 degrees, would be orbiting right above the poles. The ISS orbits at an The Soyuz will need to match this. The launch also needs the ISS passes over the In order to show this a little better, I'm gonna animate this the different orbits. Earlier, Soyuz spacecraft for rendezvous and docking. But starting around 2013, most Soyuz spacecraft in only about 6 hours from That's about four complete Initially, the Soyuz will be What we need to do is raise so that it matches the ISS orbit. But it takes a few steps to get there. We need to do a maneuver which only lasting a few minutes each. We have our orbit here, the Soyuz is going around in a circle. Now, we do the first engine burn. (gentle music) It turns out this will stretch So now we're going around 45 minutes later, the Soyuz which is called the Apogee. Notice how this is The second engine burn happens here. (gentle music) This will now stretch the Now, the orbit turns back into a circle, but this time it's at a higher We're now closer to the ISS. This process of using two engine burns to raise the height of the orbit is called a Hohmann Transfer. So we start off on the insertion orbit, first engine burn, and then and then the second engine burn, and we're on the phasing orbit. The Hohmann transfer will to reach the height of the ISS. Approaching the ISS can be dangerous. The last thing you'd want too quickly and cause a collision. However, this whole process is automated by the Kurs docking system. If all goes well, the crew This part of the ISS, is called the Russian orbital segment. The Soyuz will arrive at Some of these will be taken such as Progress or another Soyuz. And yes, Soyuz missions overlap, which means at times attached to the station. The United States orbital segment also has some docking ports, but these are incompatible with This Russian docking which is an acronym for a means system for docking The docking mechanism on the front of the Soyuz, you'll find what's called the probe, and then on the space station, If all goes well, this will between the Soyuz and the ISS. But first the Soyuz has to This time the Soyuz will be As they get closer to the what's called the fly around, to get the spacecraft lined up This involves small impulse burns. You can see the white exhaust Then they do what's called, station keeping, which ensures can maintain a constant Then comes the final approach, with only about a hundred meters to go, traveling at only a few Remember, this is all automated. There's a docking camera And this will line up with the target next to the docking port on the station. (upbeat music) When the probe touches the The Soyuz thrusters are Once inside, this is called soft capture. The Soyuz is attached to the ISS, but not completely. The probe will then tight against the station. Around the edges of the docking mechanism, there are eight hooks. These will mechanically lock This is called hard capture. Then the electrical and which connect the Soyuz to the ISS. The small area between is called the vestibule. This needs to be pressurized with air. It usually takes an hour or two to complete all of the checks and ensure that we can safely open both of the docking hatches. Inside the station, there will or cosmonauts awaiting to greet them. From the launch all the it will usually be about The crew will stay aboard During this time, their to the station. In case of an emergency, they to leave the ISS. And of course, if all goes well, it will be their ride home It's no simple journey there's so much to learn. For those of you back on planet Earth, maybe there's other things like photography, business, These are all classes you This is an online community with thousands of inspiring classes for creators. It's all about learning new which means no distraction and you can stay focused You can probably guess, I This class is by Remington Markham. He shows you how to 3D which is the same program that I use. By the end of the course, you can even animate But whatever your interests are, Skillshare probably has a that you are at. The first 1000 of my in the description will of Skillshare, so you can start exploring (gentle music)