This is a map of Hallownest. And so is this. And this. And, technically, this. These images are the primary way Hollow Knight And as nice looking as these various maps They're abstract shapes and drawings that like. I want a map that looks exactly like what I want to push the camera out and see a fully I want something like what Team Cherry showed Knight, where they zoomed out on the Forgotten area in one image. Of course, this shot wasn't made by just Hollow Knight only has one room loaded in and zoom it out, you're never going to see This is sort of like real life, where objects Team Cherry actually constructed this footage Knight's rooms together in some kind of We can actually tell that that's what they the map, you can actually see the Knight just You can even see it again near the entrance Now, you could theoretically do this exact every single room and combining them together game world. But would anyone ever actually take on such Are there any brave soldiers in the Hollow That was a rhetorical question. And the answer is yes. Back in the ancient times of August 2017, as Nook, or The Embraced One, began chipping Knight's world. She'd continue to work on this project in developing her own game. And in February of 2023, she finally released The final work is a massive image, 72,622 For reference, the Knight, as it appears in The map contains a total of 307 rooms, compiled had to be cleaned up and connected to each The entire image can be viewed on Nook's an interactive version that loads up right to open the massive 800 megabyte file on your Nook was inspired to do this after finding the Knight, which is basically Hollow Knight In fact, you can find quite a few full detail to capture the sheer scale of various Metroidvania This practice goes back well over a decade, like the original Metroid for the NES. As far as I know, these maps don't have But for this video, I'm just going to call usually created by compositing a bunch of Creating a map like this presents two technical video. The first challenge is creating complete images This can be difficult because a lot of 2D called parallax scrolling. This is where objects in the far background ones in the near background, creating an illusion It's a bit tricky to spot if you aren't in certain objects like this chain found in Some modern 2D games achieve this parallax at all, instead using a 3D camera and just This is done because, paradoxically, 3D game and debugging 2D games, as well as seeing Hollow Knight also utilizes this method for Using the program HKWorldEdit2 we can actually around freely. From here, you can see that the 2D assets 3D space. So when the camera tracks the player moving at different speeds. This is all very cool, but it makes creating complicated. If you take individual screenshots and stitch up appearing multiple times since they don't objects. To combat this, Nook had to manually edit was free of duplicates. This means pulling sprites from sprite sheets as well as finding clever ways to hide seams behind pipes and pillars. Nook uploaded timelapses of this process on much work went into reconstructing these rooms. The end result of all this is that rooms on ingame counterparts 100%. Some artistic liberties had to be taken to And this isn't the only aspect of the map brings us to the other technical challenge lining up all the rooms with each other. In an interview with PC Gamer back in 2017, as "98% pure". There are just a few cheats...like a tiny kind of thing. There's never a case where an entire room And... well... In reality, Hollow Knight's map cheats quite Super Metroid and Symphony of the Night. Of course, these older games used rigid grid conceptualized as boxes as well, in practice, and are much more freely placed on the game's This means a variety of things. Some room exits don't line up, multiple some areas are much further apart than expected. This means Nook was basically constructing So to make sense of all this, we're going map and examining how well Team Cherry constructed I'll be pointing out things such as misalignments and rooms overlapping with one another. So which area in Hallownest do you think will Which ones will have the most nonsensical Be sure to leave a comment down below that Also, before I dive in proper, I did just working on her own game called Where Birds It's a narrative adventure game that looks a link to the steam page in the description game. I have randomly decided to begin our journey Despite being the simple starting area, Crossroads rooms of any section in Hallownest, comprising When I say external rooms, I am excluding rooms, and other interior rooms that aren't So pretty much any room that is entered using If we look at the long vertical room on the two horizontal paths that cut across the top These two paths then connect to a room on the Crystal Peak. But the lower path is too far down here. So we'll be adding the first of many hallways This lower hallway also isn't long enough so an extra hallway needs to be added somewhere Switching back over to the long vertical room Cornifer's room also needs to be a bit longer Otherwise the False Knight room would crash Looking at the bottom of the Crossroads, some The Crossroad hot spring room, arguably one to the inclusion of these two bugs who I can literally cannot exist where it is. The minimap straight up lies about how tall This room is literally as tall as the room hot spring room. To compensate for this, Nook shortened the a hallway underneath it. And the exact same thing happens over to the The room heading down into the Fungal Wastes room. Nook had to insert another hallway here to Another room that just won't fit where it The ceiling of this room crashes into the To fix this, Nook applied a bit of shrinkage At the very, very bottom of Crossroads we City of Tears. This room can be accessed from the right by if that were the case, the Soul Vessel room with this Goam Mask Shard room. So a vertical hallway needs to be added here This added hallway also pushes the elevator later. There's another pretty bad overlap at the The ceiling of the room leading to the Brooding Adding a thin hallway with a slight vertical keeps lower parts of Greenpath from overlapping Overall, I think these numerous room misalignments, Crossroads, make this first area somewhat I have accidentally walked into this damn up more than once while playing this game. And while I am bad at Hollow Knight, I'm Now, you could argue that these misalignments Perhaps Team Cherry wants you to get a little misalignments aren't that big of a deal. It's a reasonable argument to make on the But if you tried to make this argument to I will say that Crossroads does have to contend areas that it has to line up with. But I can safely say that the Forgotten Crossroads game when it comes to rooms overlapping or If I had to guess, I'd say that Team Cherry experienced with making sure rooms lined up Because I do think every other area in the Crossroads. Greenpath does a much better job of keeping While Greenpath's rooms are on average larger, instead of 40. But that's still a big number, only surpassed Greenpath has two large corridors that run each other across three branching paths, all The top section of Greenpath, where the player In the bottom section of Greenpath, where Garden, Nook did add a vertical hallway near This keeps a portion of Queen's Garden from But outside of that, Greenpath is in really I think it really benefits from having the As you can see, Unn's room at the very bottom map. Either way, Team Cherry did a good job on Our next stop is in Crystal Peak. Peak has a total of 26 rooms, and takes the offshoots. There are two entrances into Crystal Peak them have some issues. The lower entrance is not quite long enough width of the higher entrance. So a hallway has to be added to make up the This is the first of many border hallways And let's just say that these hallways aren't know what I mean. As for the higher entrance, it actually doesn't entrance. This is in part due to that vertical hallway But this problem actually compounds more as Two additional vertical shafts are needed Nook actually had to extend the well drop from overlapping. This extended hallway on the left also pushes up with the Grub challenge room on the right. So while some of Crystal Peak's weirdness there are still some internal misalignments Another issue pops up at the Crystal Dash Peak. The path is simply too short, and two hallways I should mention that Crystal Peak was one she was going area by area at first, and her wasn't fully set in stone yet. At first, Nook wanted to avoid making these But as she got further into the project, she to line up all of Hallownest's rooms without Before coming to this realization, she employed in Crystal Peak, scaling. A good example of this is the vertical room This room has three exits on the left side But these exits are too close together, and to. Nook chose to scale up the entire room itself exits. However, outside of Peak and a few rooms in to line up rooms. Crystal Peak is home to a very unique set When you drop off the cliff at Hallownest's rooms depending on if you exited by going The downward path actually does link up pretty Nook opted to show the further path on her considered. The only other spot in the game that acts You can either drop into King's Pass or Speaking of Dirtmouth, let's check out this be found. In his dialogue, Quirrel mentions that he all the way off in the distance. Now, is this possible? Realistically, Quirrel probably would not This is true when looking at both Nook's The shape of the cliffs would block his view. But from the game's opening cutscene, we appears to have a lot of fog and clouds. So it's possible that light being emitted clouds above it and that might be visible So I'm calling this one plausible. While not as solid as Greenpath, Crystal Peak considered. Things are a bit spaced out, but nothing overlaps, But unfortunately, Crystal Peak is not quite Fog Canyon is a small, humble area with only And it doesn't cheat much to achieve this. The biggest offender in this area is the explosive the room below it. So it has to be moved back and up to fit properly. While Fog Canyon might fit nicely internally, are pretty egregious. The whole area is just too small for the space Nook decided to line the area up with its the lowest section of Fog Canyon. This results in very long, winding hallways portion of the Fungal Wastes. Even the connections to Queen's Garden aren't So internally, Fog Canyon looks great, but You'd really need the Mantis Claw to get Which I guess is already kinda true, but it Fungal Wastes is next with a total of 30 rooms, And for the most part, things don't overlap However, Nook did have to smush the Shrumal Vertical hallways had to be added near Mantis the bottom of Fungal Wastes was low enough Waterways. However, the most blatant flaw in Fungal Waste's Core. You probably remember seeing an entrance to You likely hadn't found the Mantis Claw you by being too high up to reach. But with the placement of these rooms, the room directly above it. The only way this path works is if this entrance access it. Right beside the Fungal Core, another vertical section between Fungal Wastes, Deepnest and So, remember back when we were talking about in the Forgotten Crossroads? Well, both Fungal Wastes and City of Tears now going to see the consequences of shifting Fungal Wastes is now really far away from Waterways as well. In the top right section of the Wastes, the shut. The other side of this same door can be found back up to the Forgotten Crossroads. But these rooms are nowhere near each other Because both areas are connected to Crossroads, janked up layout. And this is even after pushing the Crossroads get it closer to Fungal Wastes. So, Nook decided to add a few really long the City of Tears and the Royal Waterways. And so we've finally arrived in the heart This area is massive, with 37 external rooms, The City of Tears was a uniquely challenging openness of the rooms. A lot of the rooms in Tears aren't closed is more to see just beyond the edge of the Because of this, Nook decided to fill in these the unseen portions of the city. It was an insane amount of effort, but it city really is. Some of the buildings look a bit strange when honest here. The buildings in the City of Tears just look For me, it's all these windows. I think their design was inspired by termite on a termite mound would be, but I'm just Don't get me wrong, I really appreciate of the City of Tears, but man, these buildings The opening portion of Tears, starting from the city streets and then back up into Soul However, the bridge path up top where Zote path near Lemm, so a hallway is needed to In the Soul Sanctum, the most troublesome arena. This room drops down low enough that it's From this bridge, we'd expect a little bit it in game. A bit of hallway was also added before the the rest of the City further right, so it'd map. And this hallway isn't the only one. More are added in the top and bottom paths city out even more. Without all these extended hallways, there Resting Grounds elevator. If we look at the Watcher's Spire, we can go high enough to line up properly with the is needed to help out. The Watcher Knight room is also misaligned These two vertical hallways just don't line Luckily for Nook, fixing this on the composite Yet another hallway is needed after Watcher's border hallway with the elevator shaft heading Because we've been stretching the city so to cut back to the left. It also needs to be further down to line up which itself had to be pushed down due to On the far right side of the city, King's its left, which, unfortunately, do not line While it's not on the map, Nook actually and we can see that it's not quite tall map. There's also another vertical hallway added This was all done so that there would be open the Tower of Love. Also, this isn't really a misalignment, Hallownest have no idea how to build buildings, than all the floors below it. I blame gentrification. Finally, there are the connections to Kingdom's The two exits near the Tower of Love, which of each other in Kingdom's Edge. These types of misalignments can't be blamed These rooms just don't line up right at You probably also noticed that the horizontal That's due to the top path between City the Colosseum of Fools. This hallway is so long it pushes Kingdom's This hallway is also higher up than the game So none of the connections between Tears and All things considered, the City of Tears could Its internal connections do make sense for major overlaps either, which I think are the I can sort of imagine a long hallway existing the same space simply isn't possible outside I think we need a break from some of these Let's take a look at something more simple Dirtmouth and King's Pass are only two rooms, However, as you can see, there's a pretty This is because Howling Cliffs drops directly connected to Greenpath, we end up with a pretty for. Team Cherry really should have put an extra I think it would have tremendously helped The Howling Cliffs only have 6 rooms on the And everything actually lines up pretty well. It's probably the best region on the entire I should mention that the drop down into King's There's a very long border hallway that Also, the opening cutscene from Hollow Knight to Dirtmouth should look like, and it's to be. Like it's just not there? Where did it go? The more astute of you might have noticed composite map. In the top left hand corner of the area is And the Stag Nest's room placement is so room off the minimap completely. If we were to put the actual Stag Nest room below it. And we can see that the edge of this room cliff itself. It's like Team Cherry wants to treat this in the game, but didn't actually give the This room is just very weird, and weird things We caught a glimpse of the Royal Waterways deeper into this area. The Waterways consists of about 16 rooms, the Waterways still takes up quite a bit of Right off the bat, the whole area is lowered Egg room from poking up into the city streets. Towards the left side of the area, Cornifer's up correctly with Fungal Wastes. A couple of vertical hallways are needed to with the long elevator shaft leading down You can also see that the tight hallway that had to be lengthened on both sides. The bottom path of the elevator also has an This was done to make the tram line in Ancient in Deepnest and Kingdom's Edge. On the right side of the Waterways, things However, just like with City, the Waterways Edge, so a pretty big hallway is needed to You might have noticed that this map does can be found locked away in her cocoon. If you weren't aware, these rooms, along Hollow Knight a year after its release in unique aspects to them likely because of this. Two of the new Royal Waterways rooms actually is special because it very clearly runs straight to the room containing the Nailsmith's hut Well, it almost connects anyways. Team Cherry left this third room off the map, passage to the room is a doorway, making this However, the higher passage to this room is It's a bizarre inconsistency that could in the Nailsmith room instead of a hallway. What were they thinking? Team Cherry obviously should have used a doorway And yet this game sold hundreds of copies. Another reason Nook left these rooms out of Pit room is way more complex than the vast Team Cherry had more time to work on the room, the release of the base game and the release This was Nook's attempt at fixing the room, Overall, Royal Waterways is a bit weird, but consistency with its level design. Unfortunately that's pretty much the only The Ancient Basin consists of 16 rooms, as isn't actually included on the minimap. The Ancient Basin is unique from all the other one other area, the Royal Waterways. Because of this, and because of the vast empty bottom of the map, it doesn't have any major We do have a near-miss over where the breakable But everything else just works, probably because really has to line back up. While we're down here, let's take a look This room alone is taller than the entirety This room was also an absolute nightmare for The main component of the background is this In game, it stretches all the way across the map, Nook had to mask out the entire background background back into the image. Moving on to Queen's Garden, this area contains favorite areas in Hollow Knight. But how well does it hold up to scrutiny? Let's start at the very top, where Garden To the left of this room is the White Lady's that remain isolated from one another. This lets the player catch a glimpse of the able to enter it. Because of this, a vertical hallway is needed to White Lady's room with the top path. From looking at the main loop of Queen's had to be made to line things up internally In the bottom portion of the area, a somewhat one of the vine platforming rooms. Without this, the rooms above would overlap So Queen's Garden wasn't quite as tightly But keep in mind that's my fault for having Just below Queen's Garden is everyone's Deepnest is on the bigger side too, with 27 Every connection to Deepnest lines up well extended a bit to connect together. Deepnest itself also had to be extended just Garden lines up correctly. We also have some additional hallways off up with Fungal Wastes and the rest of Deepnest. But if we look at just Deepnest's internal Over in the Distance Village we have a misalignment This path leading to Midwife is too high up. Right next to the drop from Fungal Wastes, line up at all, requiring a winding hallway Another pesky misalignment can be found with This room has two bottom exits, but they are exits of the room below. This room, and the room to the left of it, Failed Tramway portion of Deepnest would align The tall room near Mask Maker is what pushed right of here had to be lengthened out as With how cramped together the right side of up as well as they have. But it's not quite up to par with some of Sorry to all my Deepnest stans out there. Your life is already so hard. Resting Grounds is one of the smaller sections really not much to get wrong here. That said, its connection to Crystal Peak The Knight takes a bit of a tumble when coming Aside from that, an extra hallway is needed with the lower path. And another hallway is added right of the Overall, the Resting Grounds could have been has, but it's not awful by any means. Before we go, I should mention the Resting As we can see, the lake itself is roughly We know from the minimap that the lake doesn't But from the composite map we can also see There's no way all this rain is coming from I'm starting to think this game is unrealistic. To finish off our journey through Hallownest, We've already talked about how none of its Some of you may be aware that Kingdom's In fact, the file names for all the rooms but eventually Team Cherry decided to tear own area. Perhaps this is why Kingdom's Edge doesn't smoothly. Kingdom's Edge has 26 external rooms, however, on the minimap. The Cast-Off Shell room has been included, far right side of the area that leads to a This room is normally reached through a doorway, it doesn't overlap with anything. We can see that this room does reach pretty somewhere in the middle of the giant Abyss The other addition Nook made was the internal aren't shown on the map. The Colosseum is home to what is arguably game. When you enter the colosseum proper, there's which really builds up the tension leading But the Warrior's Pit, just below the Colosseum other side of the colosseum. Since this is such a segregated area of the say it's the biggest single cheat the game Another issue I noticed with the Colosseum This is, presumably, the chute where defeated On the composite map, this chute is directly Pit. However, I think it's supposed to line up where we can see light shining up from below. But even if you scooted the Colosseum over reach. As for the rest of Kingdom's Edge, this to reach the rooms beside it, so some extra Additionally, the Tram room at the bottom either of the rooms next to it. It's too low and too short. As for the Hive, it fits surprisingly well And while we're here, let's take a quick As you can see, she is one giant woman. The section to the right of the Hive is also I'd say that Kingdom's Edge is yet another to sprawl and not having many other area connections Speaking of things that are sprawling, looking some strange recurring imagery. You might have noticed these weird bone-like in various places, with a huge concentration Shell. It seems likely that these are part of the up all throughout Kingdom's Edge. The portion of the corpse we walk into seems Wyrm itself is actually much, much longer Taking these additional bones scattered across view of the Wyrm corpse as it can be seen We can also see a lot of these white branches all over the place, which likely come from If we assume that these objects tend to stay bigger than what we can actually see. Looking at it now, the Wyrm easily dwarfs It's way bigger than Bardoon. It's way bigger than the Colosseum carcass. It's even way bigger than the infamous Tuk It truly is gargantuan, and can only really from a new point of view. If you want to read more speculation about this post by fellow Hollow Knight community It's some really cool stuff and I highly We've reached the end of Nook's creation round for the White Palace. Since Nook hasn't created a map for this map created by Raining Chain. This map can be viewed on their website and than having realistic room connections. But it can still be used for comparing scale. Before the White Palace was moved into the the Palace Grounds in the Ancient Basin. If we place the palace into the spot it supposedly massive. The White Palace almost reaches up to the So how does this make sense? You could argue that the Palace as we see the Palace as it was in the real world. Or you could argue that Team Cherry just wasn't Either way, it's very funny to think about the city's sewer system. As for the rooms in the White Palace itself, First, the Path of Pain does not fit in with But, it's not really clear if the Path of It seems to just exist to protect the sealed So maybe it shouldn't count. The second weirdness is the Pale King's This room's exits are so incredibly misaligned, This could imply that the Pale King was trying Pale King magic to make its entrance nonsensical, Place as it exists in the Dream Realm has in the real world. Or it means some other third thing that I'm I've been quite harsh on Hollow Knight throughout the most minute of details. But I should mention that I don't think noticeable when playing the actual game. And I think most people who played Hollow The world doesn't feel broken while playing, from a gameplay perspective. So I do think Team Cherry pulled it off where Except maybe Crossroads. Still not sure how I feel about that one. Either way, it's impressive how Nook worked complete map like this, and I had such a great what a spatially accurate Hallownest might And like I said before, you can view the whole interested. Of course, with Silksong on the horizon, the that game's world fit together? I asked Nook if she was planning on mapping and committing to cleaning up another of Team She said "fuck no".