- [Child] Look at that! So pretty! - The other day my son asked me why rainbows are curved. And I could have given but instead I made this video. With beautiful demonstrations This is the perspective of a rainbow from a single raindrop. And the best animations ever created on the subject. Because I promise you, almost double rainbow, is an oversimplification. For example, if raindrops into colors like a prism, then why do you never see a rainbow when looking in the direction of the sun? Or why is it darker above How can you make a rainbow What's going on here? Why is this rainbow so And how did this phenomenon Oh yeah, we're going deep on this one because the full explanation than anything you've seen before. (rain splattering) To make a rainbow, you need three things, raindrops, the sun and you, an observer. Okay, this is one of those but I've never seen anyone do it before. I have a glass sphere and because as we've learned raindrops, of course, are (air whooshing) Just preparing the particulate so that I can see the laser beams. Over here I have a laser. And that laser beam Rays of light from the sun parallel to each other because the sun is so far away. When light strikes the sphere, some of it reflects back and some is transmitted into the sphere. Then at the back, again, some of the light and some is transmitted. Every time light goes from some of it will be reflected And exactly how much depends its polarization and the This is actually helpful here because I can use the reflections to make sure the laser I think I've got this red laser lined up, so it's hitting the middle of the sphere and it's reflecting here, but some of the light goes through and some of the light and then some of the light Now I'm going to keep the laser horizontal and move it up the sphere. So let's call the distance the impact parameter. (rhythmic music) As I move the laser up, the reflection off the It's just bouncing off that curve surface. And I can tell you, this is a simple, boring reflection. Nothing interesting happens with it. It's not involved in but we're basically going to ignore it for the rest of the video. What's much more interesting off the back surface. Now here comes that ray here, this spot is on the table. As the laser moves up, it goes down. In fact, the whole beam That's because as the it slows down, and so it refracts. But why does light slow a dense medium like glass? Well, I think a lot of people can tell you that light is an electromagnetic wave without really thinking You know the electric field that pulls on your hair or and the magnetic field around a bar magnet that makes iron filings line up? Well, light is what happens if you could rip the electric the magnetic field off the and send them out traveling I mean in practice, by accelerating charges like Then the changing electric and team up as light and head off on their own. The clearest explanation I know of for how light is slowed down in a medium comes from I asked him if I could for this video and he graciously agreed. So when those electromagnetic in a medium like those in the the light pushes them back and forth. You can think of each charge and the changing electric to vibrate at the same But now you have wiggling So they too must create their And the net electromagnetic of the incident wave plus this new wave. The result is almost exactly except it has shifted back slightly. It receives a phase kick and each layer of the material So the net effect of all of the radiation decreases And since the frequency stays the same, a shorter wavelength through the material. The speed of light in a vacuum divided by the speed of the refractive index. It's around 1.5 for So when light enters a the part of the wave crest that slow down first. And this changes the angle And since the direction of a to the wave crests, this means So to recap, light so they create their own which gives the light a phase which slows it down and so it bends. There's a simple mathematical expression that relates the angles of to the indexes of It's known as Snell's law, even though it was by a handful of people, (intense music) And this is what we're The higher the laser hits the sphere, the larger the angle of incidence and hence the more it bends Most of this light exits but some of it is reflected. And it's this reflected ray that we can see coming out below the incident beam. Now I wanna graph the as I move the beam up the sphere. When the laser is dead center, the reflected beam comes So let's call that 0 degrees. Then as I move the laser So the light's coming back at and it keeps increasing the higher I go. But now we come to the critical point. Watch this spot on the table. As I move the incident beam The reflected ray is coming But there's a certain point right there where it stops coming closer. Look at that. And even as I keep moving it doesn't get any closer. (intense music) And then it goes back the other way. So what we're seeing this reflected ray reaches and goes back the other way. (intense music) And this is really important. It means that over a range a range of heights of the laser, the reflected beam comes out which means the light at that angle. And a concentration of light Curved surfaces all from coffee mugs to glasses Caustics create the light patterns we see by concentrating light rays. In the case of red light the maximum scattering angle, and hence this caustic below the horizontal. Since my sphere is made of well, the angle is different, Now you might ask, why does a maximum angle and then turn around? Well, the answer is just geometry. As I move the laser up the sphere, although the ray refracts down, the point on the back of the sphere where it reflects continues to move up until you get to this special point, which is about 7/8 the And here, the angle of that the refracted ray stops and starts hitting it lower. That is why the reflection turns around and therefore we get a and the concentration of But the precise maximum on the color of light. To see why, let's go back in the sphere as masses on springs. They have a natural frequency, a frequency at which they would oscillate if not driven at any particular frequency. And in most materials, this natural frequency is pretty high, much higher than the Now, when light pushes the amplitude of the on the difference between and the natural frequency of the charge. The closer the two frequencies are, the greater the amplitude which makes sense if you've The closer your pushing frequency is to the natural frequency of the swing, the higher they'll go. This means that higher will cause the charges to And because of this, the charges produce higher amplitude which creates a bigger phase kick, which shortens the wavelength making higher frequency and bend more than lower frequency light. All right, I'm gonna change lasers. So when I repeated the it refracted more than red light and therefore the green than the red dot. Whoa, oh, there's the minimum deflection for green and it's significantly In other words, its maximum than for red light. If the sphere were water, it would occur at around 41 Similarly, for blue light, the maximum scattering I do have a specialty laser, which is very bright blue, but it's very dangerous so we're gonna use it very carefully. how are we gonna use it (tool thuds) That is a good question. (tape ripping) Maybe we're just gonna tape it on here. Yeah. (playful music) So the blue only makes it to So it is a pretty serious spread here. I think my experiment may I think this one wasn't To really see the imagine we illuminate the Well, more light is at higher impact parameters because the further out you go, the more area there is. So I've adjusted these sections so that they all have the same area. Then using our graph of you can see where all of after reflecting off the back surface. Most of it ends up at the To make this more obvious, and we can do the same and all of the other colors. And this is what gives us the rainbow. (soft choral music) It's not enough to say that a into its component colors because all of the light that hits closer to the middle is spread too. But since the reflections the colors mix and produce white again. It's only the difference in and the caustics they produce (soft music) So now we know what happens of the sphere. So what happens if we uniformly illuminate the whole sphere with white light? (bright music) Well, I blacked out my window and cut a hole just big to cover the sphere. You can see there's a circle of white light coming from the reflections off the back of the sphere, and then around it, there's Come on. One raindrop creates a cone of light. The inside is all white, and the ring around This is the perspective of a All these different light rays coming in at different places reflect and the back surface, that reflection off the a maximum angle. And for blue, green, yellow, and red, the maximum angle is different. So the red maximum angle is the furthest. That's why it's on the outside here. So good, so good. (light music) What I really wanted to see of different colored caustics Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho. You've got to see this color cone. You have got to see this. My eye is right in the color cone here, I can see the color cone. That is so cool. (intense music) So this is the crazy focus If you stick your finger in Ow! That thing is a focal. (intense music) Now this really looks like a rainbow, but remember, this is from a single droplet. When you see a rainbow, there and each one is projecting a rainbow cone back toward the sun. So how does all of this create Well, for your eye to see a color, let's pick red in a then the red caustic from a into your eye. And this only happens when to the raindrop to your eye is 42 degrees. And this explains why rainbows with a 42 degree angle. (intense music) Now, the violet light from these or beside your eye, so But there are raindrops below and inside the arc of whose violet caustics They form a shallower angle of 40 degrees between the sun and your eye. And of course, there are raindrops at all intermediate angles that send you all the other colors of the rainbow. So a rainbow really is the from billions of droplets each You see a single static arch of color, but the droplets sending you those colors are constantly changing. A single drop as it falls first red, then orange, indigo, and violet. (soft music) And because a rainbow must form with your eye, the center of the arch must be on a line that passes from the sun So your shadow is the This means no two people can ever see the exact same rainbow. In fact, your left and the same rainbow. A rainbow is an optical for each perspective. This also explains why in you can only see a rainbow or late afternoon, not The higher the sun is, the And when the sun is more than no rainbow is visible from the ground. (water splattering) But even when rainbows are visible, you can turn them that is as long as they are polarized. Light from the sun is unpolarized, which means the electric fields of the light are all randomly oriented, oscillating back and forth But it just so happens that when the light in off the back of the droplet, it does so very close to a special angle known At this angle, all light with its electric to the plane of reflection is transmitted. So it passes out the back of the droplet, and therefore the only light that is reflected has its to the plane of reflection. This is the light that This means rainbow light is of the rainbow, so horizontal at the top and closer to vertical on the sides. This is why you can to make a rainbow disappear or to make it brighter to allow that polarized But why is it brighter under Well, this is because the raindrops beneath the rainbow are of light at you off their back surfaces. This is what created the white disk in my glass sphere experiment. In contrast, the raindrops above the top of the rainbow are not off their back surfaces. Your eye is now outside the of all of the colors. But if you look up even further, sometimes you see a second fainter rainbow with its colors inverted. Double rainbow. So where does this come from? Well, it comes from an inside the raindrops. Now, instead of reflecting once off the inside of the sphere, light reflects twice. These reflections also though much fainter because light is lost with each reflection. If you look at deflection angles, this light starts going out So at an angle of 180 degrees, but the further out light the smaller the angle until it reaches a minimum for red light. Then it turns around and So between 42 and 50 degrees, it is dark because no light inside a raindrop comes out at this angle. This is known as Alexander's Dark Band. Now, there is photographic evidence of third and fourth order rainbows formed after three or four internal reflections, but this light comes out So they are the only kinds of rainbows that you could expect to see when looking in the direction of the sun. But they're so faint that conditions would have to be perfect. Under lab conditions, up to 200th order rainbows but that is not what is going on here. This is known as a supernumerary rainbow. Multiple rainbow like bands but this only occurs when the raindrops are all really small, just 10ths of a millimeter in diameter. Now, the light rays that the primary rainbow ray end up coming out at similar angles under 40 degrees, but they travel slightly on the order of a wavelength. And because of this, those constructively and destructively, producing a series of light and dark bands inside the main rainbow. Different colors in these more than in the main rainbow, so they can produce strange a combination of blue and red. Supernumeraries also offer a clue to how these small rainbows work. Whenever I saw images like this or even observed this sort I wondered how a rainbow (soft choral music) These are known as Instead of the usual 42 degrees, these circles of color are only around two to four degrees wide. Well, the key is that just glories are due to interference. So they too require tiny water droplets just 10ths of a millimeter in diameter. These are the sorts of droplets Light that strikes the edge of the drop can go around the back and come straight back at the source. You can see that with the but effectively in the presence tiny little droplets become But for these tiny droplets, the distance from one point to all edges of the sphere can vary on So take for example, the point right out in front of the drop. Well, now the distance So the light interferes and produces a bright spot. But a little bit off to one side and now half of the light, on average, has traveled an extra half a wavelength. And so we get a dark spot here. If you go a little further, well now the light has traveled So now the light is and we get a bright spot here. So we can rotate this around 360 degrees and extend it out in all directions. And what we get is a And of course, all the different colors of light have different wavelengths. And so these bullseye patterns aren't So when they're superimposed, what we see is rings of color. Now, this is just the pattern but just like with a rainbow, if you have millions or they all contribute to with your shadow at the center. (soft music) And it was just such a a Nobel Prize winning discovery. In September of 1894, a scientist named CTR Wilson in the Scottish Hills. It was then that he observed the shadow cast on mist or cloud.&quot; He recalls that these glories, and made me wish to imitate So Wilson invented the cloud chamber for the explicit purpose Of course, once he made the tracks of he abandoned his original aim and was later awarded the Nobel Prize. But it all started with the in the fog. - [Child] Wow. Wow, looks so nice. - How did you see that? So now I hope you know my and why they're polarized And even more than that, I hope you know why I find such enjoyment in learning about our world, why it is worth figuring things out. For millennia, rainbows have been this blatant challenge held up to us by nature. But can you figure this out? And it's satisfying to say we have. - [Child] I'm looking at a - It's true. (celestial music) When I started researching this video, I thought I already knew about rainbows. I mean, I'd learned all of the colors of the rainbow in school and that it was caused by light but I realized now that I'd only really just and not really understood how they work. Learning should be about not memorizing a list of facts. And that's why we asked You know, Brilliant helps with quick interactive from math and science to data analysis, programming, AI, you name it. And what makes Brilliant you learn by doing and getting hands on, solving problems so and real understanding. And since all of their you can be learning and building skills whenever you have a few minutes to spare. Take their freshly updated If you liked learning about you'll love diving into these with everything from gears and structures to balancing forces and beyond, you'll not only get a better grasp on how the physical world works, you'll also learn to So you can apply your Now, I truly believe that learning a little bit every day you can give yourself. And with Brilliant, that is super easy. All you need are a few minutes each day, and before you know it, you've got a habit of ending So to try everything Brilliant for a full 30 days, visit click that link in the And when you sign up, your annual premium subscription. So I wanna thank Brilliant and I wanna thank you for watching.