[SPEAKING KOREAN] [KOREAN PATRIOTIC SONG] SHANE SMITH: Right after we saying, North Korea. Why don't you go Why? Because nobody knows anything So we were fascinated by it. And we tried to get in for a because North Korea doesn't They do not want anyone to society that is 100% percent person, Kim Jong Il. In the end, we just got so flying to South Korea and go to the DMZ and put our foot see a little bit of Let's go see the DMZ, which is is the border between North Since the Korean War ended, it's zone on Earth with two million Korean side, about 500,000 Missiles pointed at each There's three million mines In fact, there's so many mines invasion tunnels, where they And they're like, we could an hour and a half. Now the CIA and the found a number of these. But they think that It's been called the And it's the closest you can Getting to the DMZ isn't easy. It's only an hour and a half to go through about Then you have to go through session, where they're Don't look at them. Don't take any pictures. Don't do anything. We're only going to be there We're at the last stop going to the DMZ. This here is Freedom Bridge. Right after the Korean War, it and South exchanged POWs. And on the other side of that North Korea. Right here, it's kind of But as you see, just beyond the trees, there's barbed wire and everywhere. So it's a very bizarre A lot of families come, and prayers for their family in the split and never allowed So they'll come here and make a is what I'm going to put up. Someone's put up some I think the South's going to They're going to be rave Playstation versus the North sleep with their AK. And so you get off the bus. And you look across, and They're like, that's Get back on the bus. You could start World War III. They really get you terrified. They let you into one And the barracks room is half in South Korea. And they set that up so But it's the only place where foot technically into And this is as close as 99.9% will ever get into getting And people are like, So that piece of concrete-- The gravel is South, and the And the sand is North. SHANE SMITH: No what? SHANE SMITH: No pointing. Right, right, right. No finger pointing. FEMALE SPEAKER: You could with the two soldiers. SHANE SMITH: We're like, get into North Korea. We have to get in. GEORGE W. BUSH: North Korea missiles and weapons of States like these and their axis of evil, arming peace of the world. The United States of America most dangerous regimes to most destructive weapons. [CHANTING IN KOREAN IN UNISON] SHANE SMITH: We couldn't We tried through the embassy, embassy, British embassy, embassy, German embassy. And I was saying to myself, name is going on here. So we were interviewing refugees in South Korea. And a few of them had said, just the consulate there. There. That's what everybody So we were in South Korea. And we said, why not? We're here. So we flew up to China. We had nothing to lose. And we met the consul in And we left our passports fact, most of our money. And we went back to this We had to stay in one of their And we were supposed to hear next afternoon. At 6:00 in the morning, there's And we wake up all And they're like, we Here's your passport. Let's go. And we're like, where Where are we going? And they don't give you any time They take you right out from morning and get you Shenyang, you got to come to North Korean hotel with [KOREAN MUSIC] SHANE SMITH: You're not allowed North Korea. You can't bring a cellphone. You can't bring a computer. You can't bring any printed They don't want you to have leave there. In fact, they don't want you to that is too sophisticated, no You can bring basically shoot, and that's it. In fact, when you go in, you I'm not bringing in anything. And let me tell you, if they you're in deep shit. And then you're flying Pyongyang in North Korea. And then you go, holy shit, And with the express purpose of allowed to do, with the express documentary, which you're This is terrifying. So from the first minute I got [CHANTING IN KOREAN IN UNISON] SHANE SMITH: The first It's pretty dismal. [KOREAN MUSIC] SHANE SMITH: We're in a hotel Nobody's in it. There's only one floor with We're in the hotel room. And we've been told that they're listening to us. I don't know if whispering That might be where Hello, hello. Oh. Come in. Come in, Tokyo. Hello. Hello. Hello. We're here. Right after we get there, we And the first time you eat in the very weird things to come. [SPEAKING KOREAN] SHANE SMITH: This is Table. FEMALE SPEAKER 2: Sit please. FEMALE SPEAKER 2: Kumgangsan SHANE SMITH: We're in the As you can see, it's huge. There's about 20 women who are First of all, they give you absolutely inedible food. It's just matter. It's like fried matter. And you're going, yeah, yeah. But you're waiting for When's this banquet happening? When's the banquet? There is no banquet. Where is everyone? It's not very busy here. They realize they've gotten so food that they want to show, Food everywhere. And they're carefully laying you're eating. And then as you leave, you things they've just carefully that are carefully going for the next day. And you're just sitting there by going, OK I've come SHANE SMITH: It's really gray I'm going to go downstairs to It's maybe the weirdest I've The first thing you realize you're not a tourist. You're on a tour. You come in. You're shown what You're escorted out. You're escorted the You're never allowed You can't leave the hotel, which your guards come and get you. You have a guard, a guide, The first place they take you is American spy ship that they the Cold War. And they docked it in And the indoctrination starts. SHANE SMITH: They force you to indoctrination video about how terrible, and they're shitting North Korea. And look how terrible Look how terrible Japan is. And how we got their ship, and on us and how evil they are. Really incredibly SHANE SMITH: This On the way here, there's a big peace is a point of a bayonet. And all the North Koreans So you're sitting there as the as everyone's staring And you're just sitting Great, I get it. There's going to be a SHANE SMITH: So every day around our guides and our guards would They'd put us in a truck, drive and you'd drive for two hours. And the first thing you notice The villages have There's no nothing. Nothing's happening anywhere. We're going down south As you can see, there's nobody There's no cars on the roads. We're at a tea shop right now. And as you can see, I'm We're just driving on lonely to lonely tea shops. And there'd be the tea girl been waiting for you. And you realize, she's been anyone to show up How are you? SHANE SMITH: Tea? SHANE SMITH: Sorry? SHANE SMITH: Coffee? No. This is tea? What is this? Tea? What is this here? Hello. OK. And she's just so excited And you realize, she hasn't And there's going to be another anyone comes. You want to dance? PUN-YUN-CHI: Oh. SHANE SMITH: Shane. SHANE SMITH: Shane. PUN-YUN-CHI: Shane. SHANE SMITH: You? SHANE SMITH: Pun-Yun-Chi PUN-YUN-CHI: Yes. SHANE SMITH: Pun-Yun-Chi. Oh. PUN-YUN-CHI: Oh. SHANE SMITH: Very good. PUN-YUN-CHI: Oh no. Oh. SHANE SMITH: I can't Oh! I like you. Thank you. CAMERAMAN: Thank you. SHANE SMITH: This We gotta go. We're late. We had a good time. It's so surreal. There's nothing normal in this whole country.