You're called to create a post-apocalyptic Generated. Genghis Khan playing a guitar solo, Generated. A man holding a What's with his hands? Why can't AI art It doesn't matter what If you have a man holding his hands will look weird Why is this so hard? Seems easy enough, right? We've got this weird situation Abraham Lincoln dressed like But struggles with a woman This isn't just a weird glitch. The struggle of AI art can actually teach you about how AI art works. I mean, what is so hard I asked an artist who has taught how to draw hands Before someone becomes or starts training Like officially training. It's pattern recognition. You just grow up seeing and you start knowing You learn how things look and recognizing patterns. An AI is similar but has Imagine an AI is like you... but trapped in a museum All the machine has to learn from and the little placards Apple: A red apple on a That's like the images and the descriptions It's similar to how you learn, If you want to understand you can rotate it You can watch it If AI wants to understand it has to find another picture of Pattern recognition has allowed to draw decent apples... but the processes differ. You start training to become an artist, okay, now I have to learn And that's where it becomes very different Artists, in order to draw we tend to simplify things And so when you you pretty much have You have the front, and then you have So you can pretty much into like a square with some Then an artist can add and texture and detail AI works differently. Look at this hand. The shapes are bizarre, a great job showing the light Remember, the AI knows but not how they work. So these patterns in pixels It never learned, that fingers don't really It doesn't simplify the forms. Remember, it's trapped so it is just trying to guess Without knowing how hands But listen, I find this I mean, I'm basically just saying because it's not a person. But AI also doesn't know and it can still make in New York City. So to understand this better I spoke to two people with generative art models. Yilun Du is a grad student whose But, you know, AI art is So, he got pulled into it. Because of how popular in generative art.... I've also been working And I talked to Roy Shilkrot who has a super varied resume but has been teaching about Good students that are trying to break take them to the next level. Talking to them helped three big reasons. Not every reason, but that hands are tough The data size and quality the way hands act For the data size, let's go back The museum the robot it has a ton of rooms but not so many rooms That means it has less Just as an example, like Flickr HQ has 70,000. And this popular one annotates for lots of details like eyeglasses There are a ton of great that can really understand hands like this one with 11,000 hands. But these may not have been used That data scarcity combines and complexity of the data. Hands data in the art museum isn't yet annotated to show Like the celebrities pointy noses. What they say is... there is an image and there is and that person is holding You don't give the machine saying this is a person holding t The thumb is going of the handle and the fingers and then thumb is covering but not the other one. All that is made worse because compared to, So there's a pretty common like There are a lot of these and the thing is everything is Like eyes are always Like there's always this order. That's not true of hands and this and this. I swear I'm sober right now. Stan mentioned this, too. How many fingers do you see right now? Like two or three. Like it doesn't know Because sometimes there's two sometimes there's three sometimes four, sometimes five. You can see these problems but the jankiness Just look at horses. You can also have like three legs, The model does not learn to explain this and it doesn't have as much bias as we do. Okay. Did you hear that Good, because it's It doesn't have as much bias We care a lot about hands and There is a low margin for error. But because the model doesn't hasn't seen many and it makes pictures that are like but not an exact hand. That's good enough for a ton of stuff, Here, let me give you Come over here. So I typed "make me a person So this one's from Dall-E 2. This one is from Stable Diffusion and this one is from Midjourney. So it's like, you know, You've got a red haired person. They're more likely to have freckles. But there are not exactly Here that doesn't really matter But hands require higher standards. Look at our apple-holding man again. I made 3 other variations. The hands are all weird, but It changed the shirt stripes, None of that matters because button-like and apple-like. But hand-like isn't good enough. I came away from this thinking AI art is basically We're just able to see it with hands... and B, it's never going But both of those things I will say that the newest at the time of this video is and they made some progress but it's not totally fixed yet. Don't tell the AI to hold an umbrella. I think they're spending lots of time on some things that you appreciate, and a lot of stuff that you I think that for a lot of natural scenery I feel like model might be better And they are working on two things. First, they have the AI look at which requires more computing power. They're trying to solve that because if you want to train on more than a handful of images... if you want to train this would take tremendous resources to retrain the model itself. The other solution might be into the museum. There's an interesting analog. So like, have you heard of The big difference was that it So like they generated and asked people to rate which ones are good They basically fine tune the model so that it would generate sentences that are convincing to people. I guess it would require to get people to label so much data. But I think if we could just how good the images are then like a lot of these issues Because they're just training the models It's not just the hand... Anything where there's like a pattern... a large amount of something. It doesn't know the rule of because it's trained on different amounts.