- Mmhmm. Oh please this (atonish) wow this really good! This is the best one we have tried in the day, possibly the best we will try. [Music] Guys, buongiorno! ciao bello! That's right! we are in Italy. How nice to be walking the streets of Rome, everything is so beautiful. Wine everywhere, pasta everywhere. As the current youth would say, everything it's very aesthetic. I feel like in a movie constantly and well in this edition of Luisillo the fatty, we are going to make a test of different pizzas, truly italian. Pizza is possibly one of the most popular dishes internationalized all over the world is everywhere, it has been intervened in any way you can imagine. Some has put pineapple on it, they have put vegetables on it, they have put seafood, they have injected cheese inside the bread, they have mixed it with hamburgers, with sandwiches, with tacos. Pizza is simply a dish that everyone likes, it has benn made in cone. There is expensive and there is cheap. Pizza it's just everywhere because everyone loves it. Native to the area from Naples, in Italy. This is a dish that by rule must have dough, tomato, oil and cheese. Although, of course there is many variants, in fact it is narrated it was invented around the time of 17th century and in fact the author Alexander Dumas narrates in one of his books that the original recipe has oil, tomatoe, anchovies and cheese. How about anchovies? How curious. After that, around the 19th - 20th century, it was that it was expanding around the planet, because many people from Naples were migrating mostly to the United States and many claim that in fact it was the United States responsible for making it something like more international and more of general taste. However it happened, today we will try some of the recipes authentically italian, nothing like hawaiian with pineapple and such things. No, we are going to try to go to the roots of the neapolitan recipes and try to determine which one is the tastiest and of course as always the most fattening so join me in this edition of Luisillo the fatty of pizzas in Italy. This is gonna be be succulent. I recommend that you see this video at least with a little bread with jam because I warn that appetite will be opened. Normally I would say Let's go for it! but we are in Italy so I'll say: andiamo! [Music] Before we begin our tasting of pizzas, we are going to analyze a little bit the origin of why the pizza has this name. You will see, surely there are many theories of the origin of the word but the one that has the most foundation and the one that most I like personally is that the word &quot;pizza&quot; comes from the italian &quot;pinsa&quot; is the conjugation of the verb &quot;pinsere&quot;, that means &quot;to smash&quot;, then pizza would be &quot;smashed&quot; because in fact, you crush the tomato, the dough also, you mix them and then it's pizza, it's smashed. We're going to start with two of the most traditional recipes, it's of course the margarita recipe and the caprese recipe. Margherita as such is the dough, the sauce, the cheese and usually it must have basil, in this occasion they did not put it basil but usually it should. The caprese is very similar, they usually put some chives on them and in the same way it has tomato, pomodoro. The whole tomate in slices. It's called Caprese because it comes from the island Capri in Italy and Margherita, this one has a very nice name, it is so called because a long time ago a chef was preparing some pizzas to the queen Margarita and told her which one was your favorite? So the queen Margherita saw the pizza and said: Oh I like this one with red on it, white and green just like the flag of Italy and that's why it's called like this. Margherita. By the way, something very curious that I have analyzed being here in Rome is that in many pizza places they charge you by weight, it's not like by slice it's not for the whole pizza it is for how much does your pizza weigh. In this place for example they sell you at 20 euros a kilo already, depends on who good or not it's prepared by the chef, how doughy it is, how many ingredients they put in, no matter the taste is going to be 20 euros the kilo of pizza. Did you know this? [Music] The margherita is what it is, the classic one it gets you out of trouble, in fact if we take away the cheese from the margherita, it's called pizza marinara, which kills a little bit the myth that the pizza has to have cheese and marinara, although we might think that such a it is so called because it has ingredients of the sea it's called like this because the sailors were supposed to consume it to not get dizzy when it came to being on their boats. So marinara is simply more oil and tomato and with cheese and I repeat, generaly with basil is already margherita. Tasty! delicious, a classic. Let's go with the caprese. By the way, I didn't mentioned, the caprese usually is made with fresh mozzarella cheese that also distinguish and the fresh tomato as we see it. What a delight! [Music] I'll say I feel like I'm eating better with the caprese it kinda feels more substantial, the chef did it better although I will say that these in particular, of the place that we chose have not been the the best we have tasted, meanwhile let's keep moving, I'm sure that this will be getting better and better. Let's continue let's keep going, because the appetite is just beggining to open. [Music] Let's get rid of a little prejudice and clarify that it is not entirely incorrect eating pizza using fork and knife. If the pizza is brought to you al taglio or sliced like in this one, in that case you really have to eat it with your bare hands, because you can sense that the you are going to share it, but if in fact the pizza, you ordered it's for yourself and they brought it to you whole without slicing it the most common is indeed to eat it with fork, knife and that's it. Approved by the italians, is not bad manners. Let's try it now another of Italy's classics, this is the capricciosa pizza. The capricciosa is made of tomato, cheese, artichoke, olives, mushroom and ham. There are variants more or less ingredients but the classic italian capricciosa is what it is. and yes, it is a whim. I understand why the name, it is something with whimsical people to ask for o many ingredients. This is usually more expensive, depending on the place. Honestly, this one we found in this place, has good size. I would say they eat two people 9 euros 50 that's a more than acceptable price, we even had our classic aperol spritz. more italian, impossible! Enjoy! [Music] Wow, truly fresh. Freshly made it is delicious. One certainly has the question of why it is called capricciosa and according to Luisillo the fatty research this is because in the decade of the 1950's an italian chef created this recipe in his restaurant that was called &quot;La capricciosa&quot; that's why the name stayed by the name of his restaurant, although in effect asking for so many things it's all a whim. I'm going to to give it a 9.5 to this capricciosa simply monumental [Music] Look at this one we found, this one it's also an all italian recipe and it is quite out of the rule that the pizza has to have tomato on it this it's simply called pizza patate and it's dough with potato and cheese for 3 euros, they have sold us this. Let's try it pure potato [Music] Mmm what can I say? The truth, it tastes more like to a spanish tapa, something that I would ask with my summer red wine the grumpy waiter would arrive, *ostia! what you gonna order? fuck off eh!* and he's gonna get me some croquettes, he's going to get me my potatoes. Why are the waiters in Spain always grumpy? Serious question, what's going on? *the patata brava from Valencia* and it will give this, I do not know. It tastes more like a spanish dish than a italian one. To this one I'm going to give a six, not because is not tasty but because in my concept americanized, doesn't taste like a pizza to me. You craving it? potato pizza with cheese Comment. I didn't love it. Let there be no doubt that in Italy there are pizzerias everywhere, they really are like taquerias in Mexico. You walk 10 meters there is one, 20 meters another one pizzerias everywhere yes yes if the prejudice it's true. Pizzas everywhere at all hours and well we have ordered. Check this out, it's super italian. Pizza diavola, as the name says it, this is a little devil. That it's made out, either with spicy salami or with spicy chorizo. Is like the classic that we eat from our side of the world, the pepperoni one, but this one its spicy! and we have also ordered this one which is carbonara such as a carbonara pasta, has egg, has bacon, has cheese and in this case also has the pomodoro base This are a little more expensive because we can see that it has a much larger size and also the ingredents look like much more prominent with a lot of cheese, thicker meat. 10 euros each We are going to taste it. Buon appetito! Okay, good consistency, the dough is thin. Doughs are usually thin on this side of the world, let's try. Buon appetito! [Music] We felt the sweetness of the tomato and wow, its coming its coming, it's spicy. I imagine this is because of the way they season the meat, when the salami roll is out, there they might put the spices maybe they put spicy pepper. Even for the people without an accustomed palate this might be too spicy for a korean, but for a mexican not really. What Italians will think of that on the other side of the world we put hot sauce to pizza until it burns your eyes. Diavola massimo Let's try the carbonara pizza. Wait, I still feel the spicy in my mouth. Let's cool it down with the carbonara. Look at it, this one looks with a lot of cheese, it looks brutal! - Mmhmm. Oh please this (atonish) wow this really good! This is the best one we have tasted in the day. Possibly the best we will try! This one deserves a perfect 10 without hesitation. To this one I was going too, but after testing the carbonara I don't know anymore. We are going to give a 9 to this one, well deserved and a perfect 10 to the carbonara. Wow this place is good! Pinsitaly! Pinsitaly is called the place the place of the pizzas. We are already here even cultivating. The traditional pizzas very well done, price a little bit more beyond standard, but I think it's worth it so a 9 and a 10. Brutal! [Music] Small intervention from Luisillo the drunkie but, look at this. This is something super common from Italy that pleases me. In Italy people are quite drunk and it's common to see these places of wine cocktail bar down the street that you will sell what you want, your cuba, your campari, your aperol spritz, for four five six euros and you can take it in the street, here in Rome it's legal to drink on the street as long as you are not bad behaving and yes it is quite usual to see. Its way better in the summer, now during winter, as you can see by my clothing its quite cold, but during summer surely this tastes better. Let's continue. Our next pizza that by the way it looks peculiar. Ok let's leave it in that adjective, for 4 euros we have bought this pizza that I repeat, the cut is always rectangular. It's called funghi porcini. Funghi's pizza it's super italian, is the classic pizza of mushrooms that sometimes they also put ham on it. Funghi and ham. this is the porcini mushroom that is the white fungus it seems to me that it is the spanish denomination and the mix it in a creamy way, either way this one is missing the tomato and it's only the porcini mushroom with the cheese. Mozzarella cheese, well enjoy it! buon appetito. It doesnt look so appetizing at least for me but perhaps you guys do like it What do you think? let's see [Music] Mixed feeling with this pizza I'll tell you the truth as I feel im not very fungal, to be honest. All mushrooms and so, are not usually mi favorite taste and this pizza its not the exception. For pleasure, honestly I wouldn't ask for it. I tolerate the mushroom, but if the pizza is pepperoni with mushroom or ham with mushroom etcetera etcetera as a complement but as the main ingredient mushroom I wouldn't ask for it. And now, with no personal opinion, I'm going to give it a six out of a 10 pizzas. Although it is because because I don't like the mushroom maybe you guys love it. Are you craving it? Funghi pocini pizza. Let's continue [Music] Guys, with this we conclude the italian pizza special from Italy by your always reliable Luisillo the fatty. Luigi the Gordilli as we would say it in italian. Which one did you crave more, which one made your mouth watered? Would like to add some information? Please below in the comments. Thank you very much for joining me and we'll meet, as you know it, in a few days with a new video. Ciao, pimpollo!