The Byzantine military reforms in the 10th east strongly and lastingly. The Byzantines projectiles containing the infamous "Greek the enemy cavalry in well-coordinated charges and while the infantry was deployed in provided support and refuge in case of a that would bring the empire to a new Golden The "Byzantine empire" also known as eastern military decline in the 7th and 8th centuries, Only in the 9th century, after decades of Byzantine Empire begin to stabilize. This was due the Byzantine army which at this time was or administrative districts called themes and the tagmata, but it lacked offensive stood in stark contrast to the ambitions of the Bulgars in the north and Muslim states in more professional and more offensively capable video we're looking at the three central changes would propel the empire into a new Golden Age. one of my recent favorites. It rebuilds ancient years ago to the modern outline of the city and the colosseum. But in the documentary, they also which is just white or gray nowadays because want to watch it, you can find this documentary this video. Curiosity Stream is something we of streamable documentaries and non-fiction TV to nature, technology and crime. The series that I picked to illustrate what you can find on to its name. It spans 15 episodes and rebuilds or the Roman Forum. It's excellent; watching it ancient Rome looked like over 2000 years ago. I please use the link in description below. You down to just 29.99/ year, so 2.5$ per month To improve its military clout, the more professional soldiers, organized in a way and aggressively on offensive campaigns. This reviving a corps of disciplined, effective enemy infantry and cavalry, support their own garrison troops away from their home territory on heavily armored lancers that could operate in the aggressive power of the Byzantine cavalry This is often referred to as the revival of the battles by deploying handheld pumping-devices However, only very little information has come we can track these changes mainly through a series the tenth century. Although they don't go into too of those substantial changes were completed by the Generally speaking, infantry used to play a 6th to the 9th century, both tactically and changed drastically due to political and military significant tactically, but it also outnumbered of infantry was emphasized by placing it who was second to the commander-in-chief. He field discipline and effectiveness in battle. Roman Empire, which were still idealized by training switched to discipline and drill. infantry changed. The Byzantines recognized when facing heavy cavalry and understood an alone wouldn't be enough. They adapted to this hollow square or rectangle formation made This was meant to prevent the infantry from being for their own cavalry in battle, and to prevent There was enough space between the blocks of leave and enter the square. These gaps were Hitherto, infantry had been drawn up in a deep these lines, the taxiarchies had been arrayed backed up by 4 rows of archers. The new 10 rows deep with 4 rows of spearmen on either This way they could quickly change their enemy cavalry unit managed to penetrate the Simultaneously, a new kind of infantry was a long spear that served a function similar to the rest of the taxiarchy, they had the task to stop the rest of the formation and draw up in a line or charge, the infantry reinforced its lines by backmost line of regular infantry reinforced the of the front from 4 to 6 lines very quickly. Once moved forward to attack them from the flanks. By treatises, was written, a taxiarchy consisted of 200 light infantry, and 100 menaulatoi. and able to cooperate with the cavalry in new behind an infantry line. Now they started could always retreat into the hollow square, Deploying the infantry in this way also a retreat for lighter troops, and flexibility, as attacking formation quickly. According to the was nothing new, as square formations had been when setting up camp, marching through hostile Making this particular hollow square the All these changes increased the infantry's status. initiated an improvement in morale, tactical time, the use of mercenaries and the recruitment groups within the empire, who had a reputation notably the Armenians, who were considered All this drastically improved the it remained lower in status than cavalry but it was professionalized very much disciplined Roman footmen than any Byzantine While this major change in the role of infantry reformed as well. The regular mounted units, were grouped in tactical units of fifty men, so were arrayed eight to ten rows deep with During the reforms in the late 9th and 10th formation several times until it was usually 100 two and the last row made up of heavy cavalry, archers. So, like the infantry, the cavalry more flexible too. Inevitably, the proportion of In addition, the cavalry units were complemented The cataphract made its reappearance. These lamellar armor, mail and quilting from head to and were, of course, extremely expensive. In the so-called trigonos parataxis, and their lancers and other cavalry, to smash through break up their formation, and create an opening turn the flanks of the severed lines. According rows deep with the first row being twenty ranks so that the twelfth had sixty-four men and the consisted of 384 men with rows from ten to exclusively made up of cataphracts. The middle This was perfectly suited for shock attacks. As a hard time when charging into an undisrupted Byzantine tacticians had well accounted for this. charge in three steps. (1) While the formation would send a hail of arrows into the enemy ranks the enemy lines, for which the heavy cataphracts impact they pressed forward in melee to cut if the attack succeeded, the archers in the In addition, the military manuals of the tenth of the Byzantine cavalry. For centuries, the set up the entire mounted force into two lines, outflankers and rear-guard units. Apparently, this unwieldy, instable and vulnerable to attacks of cavalry, at least in some cases. This saka in numbers and thus reflects the efforts Finally, there was a third crucial tactical of the Praecepta regarding support weapons. have with him small cheiromaggana, three elakatia of catapults], a swivel tube with liquid fire and same deployment in equal strength, our men can up by using [...] the artificial liquid fire." This known as Greek fire. Greek fire was primarily used according to historian Gergios Theotokis this the first mention of its use in pitched battles Muslim armies who had relied on devices to project grenade-like containers that were thrown by hand were used in the opening stages of battles along of Greek fire to land battles, at least to a small Byzantine armies used the incendiary, which damage in the enemy ranks. It seems more probable The late 10th and 11th century proved how Thanks to the tactical changes, the Byzantine the empire's former territory. Throughout the dynasty were very successful on the offensive, Byzantine empire to new prosperity in what