- In any downtown area, of street artists making their mark. Some call it vandalism, but how often can you call it useful? In 2001, a local LA artist, and prep, snuck onto a large a busy freeway in broad daylight and added his art to the sign. This one act of vandalism and so useful. It stayed in place for eight years. Let me tell you the story what Caltrans couldn't. The gorilla public servant Richard Anum. Now you've all heard stories At least you've heard how bad LA traffic is, and while that's partly of public transport and Angelinos not knowing of it comes from when those freeways were originally constructed. California's interstates were built and maintained by the of Transportation or Caltrans, and one 10 was one of Actually, it's in The one 10 was first opened in 1940 as the Arroyo Seco Parkway. It wound from Pasadena through the heart of downtown LA. At the time, it was hailed of a modern freeway. But fast forward about 60 years Caltrans realized freeways like shoulders. For example, the Arroyo Seco well, a parkway. It was built for 40 mile an what most vehicles were doing at the time. It had near 90 degree off ramps and microscopic on ramps with And because it was built right it couldn't be widened as the city grew. Luckily, the one 10 is not the five, the 1 0 1, the 10 all funnel commuters But because the one 10 was there, first it sits in the prime spot. This means it had to have on-ramps and off-ramps for each of these freeways added of about four miles. I think the worst thing about to un the downtown merges. This is just set in stone. Nowadays, freeway signage GPS apps built-in navigation, and the trust we put in strangers little more than a relic of the past. But in the Y 2K era, and needed them to be accurate. So you can imagine how frustrated you'd be to Six Flags, four kids in the Pokemon soundtrack blaring, for which lane needed to be and the sign just wasn't there. The overhead sign or gantry at Mile Marker for the 1 0 1, the five South, but it made no mention of the tiny two lane that would put you onto than two miles. Here we are in the tunnels of the one 10 just north of downtown. We are about to come up It is a very, very tight left-hand exit that just comes up very of this tunnel right here. And if you are not prepared Missed it Every day. People were missing their exit or worse, cutting across to make it at the very last minute. It's unclear if anyone to Caltrans about this and being ignored, or if it was just one of those, you know, everyday annoyances that people But one man wasn't gonna He became the hero we needed and took matters into his own hands. Richard Ancrum is a contemporary artist and sign painter who was living south of Los Angeles in Orange after falling prey to the One morning he began to notice just how many people did as well. Luckily, Ancrum had the and the free time to At first, it was just a funny little idea that he talked about with and fixing the sign. But eventually, Ancrum went and that plan wasn't just to of spray paint and graffiti on a fix. Ancrum was a sign maker of detail he went into Ancrum visited other overpasses to get accurate sizing. He took color swatches to match the Caltran standard perfectly. As a skilled sign painter, Ancrum even hand painted the onto his masterpiece. He even sourced reflectors that Caltrans used. After three months of that matched the existing and he even added some patina to help match the surrounding paints. But now came the tricky part, actually getting the sign up of the sign, Ancrum was to actually installing it. He got a high of his vest and and even put a fake contracting of his truck just to make And honestly, why would they be? Everything he did seemed as freeway goers were concerned. Ingram used the guardrails on the gantry and even had a guide to to perfect spec. It all looked pretty legit. And in case I didn't mention process looked so and his team filmed the whole thing. They not only documented the but they had cameras stationed all around it while it was being installed. Ancrum eventually as a 10 minute documentary, It's a little scary, and but if you like your of a David Lynch vibe, - I have taken it upon and install these missing guide signs. - And if you're thinking, that effort into something so trivial? Didn't this guy have bigger Not really. This was the peak America arguably the most - World as it was at the And it was also a time when concerned with security. The installed sign was so no one even knew there was Drivers saw it as a much needed, and Caltrans didn't seem Ancrum had completely gotten away with it. On one side, that's the mark but like any mastermind, Ancrum wanted to get caught just a little bit. In 2002, Anri leaked the and once they broke the - So was it your idea to to create and deploy a sign of your own? - Yes. What'd she think? - She thought I was out of my mind. - Of course, reporters wanted to hear from Anker about but they also wanted to how they felt about a job. For them, - We feel he had a good idea, and in fact, we're Mr. Rom's activity was very well executed, very well thought out. However, there is a and it's very important that such work be done under the guidance or by our maintenance forces. - Eventually, Caltrans did with the new one that But do you know how long Now, whether that's because that good, or Caltrans is just that inefficient, I But as you can see, they did much the exact same spot. Ancrum didn't leave it at that though. His mini documentary to over a dozen film festivals and according to him, there are other similarly that he's kept quiet. The statute of limitations Listen, we've all looked and seen things that need fixing, but rarely do any of us Now, I'm not saying you nearest street sign. In fact, I'm saying you shouldn't do that because it's illegal. But it is certainly worth acknowledging and appreciating the work of a vigilante roadwork That's it for me this I'll see you in two weeks.