It's the 26th of October 1942. Alarms blare aboard the aircraft carrier the USS Enterprise. A squadron of pilots rushes for their F4F Wildcats. The head of the group is a commanding presence. He shouts to the young aviators on the deck. &quot;Get those birds in the air as quickly as you can! We're already late to the party!&quot; The engines roar to life and the aircraft launch off in a mad scramble to get into the air. At 10,000 feet the pilots form up. In the lead lieutenant Stanley Vejtasa heads up the formation. They continue to rapidly gain altitude. "Set course heading 295, enemies 45 miles out." They're closing in fast. Vejtasa's heart is pounding. They don't have enough time to reach the right altitude and distance, the defense is badly compromised before the battle Below him 21 ships dot the ocean. It's a massive American battle group that stretches far and Hundreds, if not thousands of lives depend &quot;They scrambled us too late. This is already FUBAR!&quot; "Vejtasa dealt with three Zeros in a Dauntless. We got this!" "Eyes on the horizon, gentlemen!" Vejtasa thinks back to just 5 months earlier when he had been a dive bomber pilot against 3 Zeros. After doing the impossible he had earned himself a promotion and one hell of a reputation. But now he is the leader of an 8-plane Wildcat squadron known as the Grim Reapers "Contacts! 2 o'clock, high!" In the distance a group of Val bombers emerges from between the clouds. Vejtasa quickly assesses the situation. "We're far too low, they're going over our heads. Climb at maximum speed!" The pilots activate emergency power and the Wildcats roar into battle, pitching up, desperately trying to intercept the bombers in time. But it's no use, they're far too low. &quot;Go straight for them, we don't have time to buy these Vals a drink The Vals continue on their mission and dive into the attack, setting their sights on the USS Hornet. The sky becomes alight with anti-aircraft fire, columns of tracers pouring out of the carrier and arching for the incoming enemy. Vejtasa and his men are horrified as they see the &quot;Damn it, we are too late!&quot; Losing the keys to your vehicle can be a frustrating and emotionally tough experience. But with the help of today's sponsor you can replace your keys simply, securely and efficiently. You don't even have to even leave home. With Car Keys Express you can get a new key for your car up to 75% cheaper than dealership prices. They even have a new service called SnapKey where you can make a new car key using only your phone. Simply go to Car Keys Express web store and fill in the details of your car. Then choose the SnapKey option for your order. Take a photo of your key and they'll ship you a new key that's already cut. Along with their do-it-yourself installer It's easy enough that anyone can do it! And it works on all key types. Don't want to do it yourself? Well, Car Keys Express offers On-Site key replacement service. Their expert technicians cut keys in neighborhoods across the United States. Just schedule an appointment to have a fully-trained expert cut and pair your keys for you. Click the link in the description and get 10% off your order. If you only have one key for your car, help the channel and get a second key while you still can! Eyes burning, Vejtasa pounces on the dive-bombers as they turn away for home. He sweeps in behind and pulls the trigger. The Wildcat's six-wing machineguns shred the enemy A second wave of Vals comes flying in towards the carrier. Vejtasa turns to intercept, opening fire and taking a bomber out of the sky. The rest continue past and drop their payload, bombs slam into the Hornet. The rest of the Wildcats engage the Vals and fire their guns. But despite their efforts, a lone Val escapes. It dives down aiming straight for the USS Hornet's island. Sailors on the Hornet watch as the dark shadow gets closer and closer. Gunners desperately fire at it, expecting it to drop its bomb. &quot;It's coming in fast! It's going to ram!&quot; The Val slams into the USS Hornet. A catastrophic explosion rocks the carrier, setting fires all over the deck and taking out multiple sailors. Rear Admiral George D. Murray rushes to help the injured crew members. &quot;If any of them are as brave as you - we can't lose.&quot; Vejtasa sees the explosion on the Hornet. His eyes fill with horror as he looks at the But before he can do anything... "Incoming attack, 230, approaching Enterprise." New targets. Vejtasa calls for his men. "Leave those that have already dropped bombs and regroup, there's more coming, we need to cover the Enterprise." "Yes sir! Copy that!" They turn away from the Hornet and regroup. Vejtasa and his men climb gaining lost altitude as they prepare for battle. Then, in the distance, four Aichi "Val" dive-bombers are spotted through the clouds. &quot;Protect the ships at all costs!&quot; &quot;Copy, flight leader!&quot; The Japanese pilots are rumbling along the sky when suddenly the 8 Wildcats punch out of the clouds straight ahead, with Vejtasa at the helm. He doesn't hesitate for one second and opens fire with his machine guns piercing the fuel tank and bursting the plane into flames. The rest of the Japanese planes are thrown into disarray as Vejtasa and his squadron race through their formation. &quot;Fighters!&quot; &quot;Where did they go?!&quot; Vejtasa expertly puts his plane into a tight turn and sets his sights on another Val. The pilot seems completely oblivious as Vejtasa lines up behind him and pulls the trigger. The machine guns burst to life and bullets pepper the enemy until fire bursts from its wings, and it spirals out of control. &quot;There's too many of them. Regroup and go in for a second round!&quot; The rest of the Vals immediately dive for safety, with the rest of Vejtasa's squadron hot on their heels. Vejtasa searches the sky for another Val when his wingman, Lieutenant Leroy &quot;Tex&quot; Harris, suddenly sounds over the radio. &quot;Below! Torpedo bombers!&quot; He turns under and dives into the attack. Vejtasa follows, racing across the sky. Below, the formation of Kate bombers are completely unaware as the two defenders fall from the heavens, Tex and Vejtasa approach at absolute maximum speed and pull the trigger. In a flash streams of bullets crash down into the enemy. Vejtasa's aim is impeccable and slices a Kate bomber out of the sky. The Japanese aircraft scatter, Tex and Vejtasa split up as they chase after their prey. The Kates try to dive for an escape but the American's speed advantage is insurmountable. Vejtasa turns back around, sweeps in, and opens fire, the 50 caliber rounds cut through the enemy aircraft and set it alight. The rest of the Kates make their escape, scattered and in disarray. Aware that more attacks are on the way he lets this group of enemies get away, &quot;Any more threats spotted?" "Only those in retreat. I'm giving chase." "Conserve ammunition, there's more inbound." "Copy that." The lull in the fight serves Vejtasa well. He uses the time to climb, regaining the energy he spent in the lighting attacks. Meanwhile, he sees his men performing their best taking And then, he spots exactly what he fears. A full formation of 8 B5N Kate bombers completely unbothered, heading straight for his squadron's aircraft carrier, the USS Enterprise. "Torpedo bombers! Formation of 8 headed for Enterprise! Intercept!" He pushes the throttle to maximum. &quot;Let's dance...&quot; Meanwhile the flak of the Enterprise meets the Kates, black explosions materializing all around them, clouds of shrapnel tearing them to pieces. But Vejtasa knows the flak won't be enough. He chases after the enemy, plunging into the air thick with allied flak. The Kates spot him and immediately turn to evade, the 8 aircraft escaping in different directions. But he follows his selected target as the enemies rush to escape. In a desperate move the Kate plunges into a cloud to break the line of sight, but Vejtasa chases through, expertly predicting the enemy's move and emerging out of the other side still on his tail. He opens fire and strikes the enemy on the wing, flames erupt from the bomber. Vejtasa turns away, leaving the doomed Kate to its fate. He searches for the rest of the torpedo bombers when finally his squadron returns. The American flight dominates the air, with Vejtasa personally taking down 2 more in the But then, just as he thinks it's over, Vejtasa spots a lone Kate bomber. He checks his ammunition. It's low, but it may be enough. He flicks all his six guns back on. This Kate is going down. He gives chase, pulling up behind and below the enemy, away from its rear gunner. With the shot lined up in front of him, he pulls the trigger. Bullets pour out of the Wildcat like water out of a firehose. The wall of lead converges right on the enemy, striking it with dozens of hits in the blink of an eye and triggering a fire. But the enemy plane doesn't go down. Vejtasa's heart sinks. His guns run dry. The Kate is still clearly under control despite the flames engulfing the machine. The bomber turns towards the Enterprise, and Vejtasa is filled with horror. He knows what he's going to do. &quot;For the Emperor!&quot; He chases after the enemy, desperately searching for any way to change its course. Out of options, he decides to slice off its tail with his propeller! Vejtasa approaches, ready to strike, when suddenly the Kate turns upside down and dives straight down. &quot;Long live the Emperor!&quot; Vejtasa sees the ball of flame as the Kate impacts straight into USS Smith. Completely out of ammunition, Vejtasa has no option but to bring his Wildcat to land. Thanks to the efforts of himself and his squadron, their home carrier, the USS Enterprise, is still largely unscathed. He touches down and watches the battle above. That would be the end of Vejtasa's fighting. He had become an Ace in a Day, and his actions are believed to have saved the lives of many men. Vejtasa survived the war and would continue serving the nation, building a long and illustrious career in the Navy.