We'd like to thank NordVPN for supporting PBS. Hey Everyone. Just letting you Merch at the Merch store. More All particles belong to one of two large make everything we consider &quot;matter&quot;, while bosons forces. And that about covers the universe: matter of forces. But what if we could create particles these neither matter nor force anyons can exist, We live in a conveniently simple universe. But what if there are actually infinitely many let's first do a quick recap The most obvious behavioral characteristic of state as another fermion. If two electrons bring them close together there will This is known as degeneracy pressure the reason you don't fall through the no problem being in the same state and this is the reason light beams can pass But why can bosons share a state we explained this before in terms of the exchange symmetry of the wave function. That's a The short version is that swapping identical combined wave function, putting the swapped wave That means if both fermions are in the same state, then a superposition of swapped and causing the wave function to vanish. Quantum of force appears to arise preventing fermions On the other hand, swapping a pair of bosons so you can have superpositions of pairs The final part of that frankly awesome spin of the particle with this exchange because I don't want to have to take my belt bringing Einstein's relativity into the picture Fermions had anti-symmetric exchange symmetry etc., while bosons have symmetric exchange This story about what happens when you explanation of the difference between bosons and It's also roughly reflective of the way these But there's a bit of a problem with this particles is pretty ambiguous. We showed each other. But there's a fundamental track the positions of the electrons, so what if Because the particles are indistinguishable between particles passing by each extremely close approach and then a to even assign labels that remain This is exactly why in 1977 Jon Magne Leinaas think about fermions and bosons that took silly. And they succeeded, and in the process Let's go back to our example of through each other. We'll make is a one-dimensional universe--the only space that exists. That means we can Every point in this plane represents a combination just said that we shouldn't go around labeling that. For example, this point here has electron But that's the same physical situation 1 and electron 1 is at 2. In fact, this duplicate of the lower half. So let's This is what we call the configuration represents one possible configuration of but then they both move in different configuration changes, tracing a But what happens if this line reaches the particles getting so close to each other we lose on, passing by each other, which would look like could have both been deflected, like this. As far these two paths have to be thought of as the same as this trajectory so we only keep the So it seems this boundary has a very particular causes it to bounce back. Because we're trying in terms of the wave function, not particles. So The wavefunction in quantum mechanics represents properties--in this case the positions the wavefunction is wavey. It's value at each point is influenced and the whole thing moves around over We can learn a lot about the two-particle to give zero probability on the other side of at the boundary. The types of wavefunction perfectly by the boundary, but with one Let's look at a more physical analogy. When water its phase is shifted by a half of a 180 degrees. We can write this as the by e to the power of i times the phase shift. shift as the number half wavecycles that the where the Greek letter eta is that number gets a phase shift of one when reflected off a The wave function of our pair of when it bounces off this abstract boundary also one for the electron pair, and for a phase shift is applied to the wavefunction shift. E to the i pi times one is So the combined two-electron wavefunction exactly the same "anti-symmetric" the previous video--swapping electrons But this new way of looking at it is arguably fact that we don't know which electron And this also works for bosons. In their and e to the i times 0 is 1. That means the no change. That's equivalent to our particles OK, so we've recovered the basic behavior we can tell one particle from another. But of this argument. We know what the phase but are these the only phase shifts allowed? Back to the example of light--it's possible phase shift you want in the reflected that experience a phase shift that's not 0 Actually yeah, in fact it's possible to come Any at all. And a particle with a phase an anyon. For bosons and fermions, the related to their spin. The same would be be able to have any spin, not So if this is supposedly a more robust and it predicts any conceivable spin, bosons and fermions with their very this prediction we just made for right - they should exist in the situation So let's add some dimensions and see if If we have 2 electrons moving in need a 4-dimensional configuration But we have a trick to get around this. electrons relative to each other, so imagine need is the distance between the electrons and We call this center of mass coordinates, and 2 electrons in 2 spatial dimensions. This move around in real space and this new config the configuration moves towards zero seperation, Once again, the indistinguishability new configuration space is redundant. we don't know whether they've passed by each This has the effect of eliminating half particle is to the left or to the right reaches this border it doesn't bounce back, In this case to be able to describe continuous crafts--we fold the remaining half of Now the same motion in this space looks like makes one circuit around the cone it means the so they passed very close to each other This is the equivalent of bouncing off the the 2-particle wavefunction picks up a phase anyons, that phase shift could be anything. If we want to reverse the phase shift steps. If the phase shift for a clockwise then the shift for an anti clockwise shift is because rewinding things should subtract 2-D case that phase shift can be anything we OK, so what about a universe like our own with 3 in 3 dimensions we need a 6-D configuration space mass coordinates we still have a 4-D space, which screen. What we can do is restrict our particles the configuration space looks just like the But there's a difference in the case of compared to an actual 2-D universe. See, in a plane of motion from the other direction, but it's your ability to do that that What do I mean by that? Remember the config space cone introduces a phase shift and motion in of the same shift. In the 2-D slice in our 3-D two indistinguishable particles through the pass them backwards and they should pick state. In configuration space, the 2-D opposite phase shifts for clockwise But now we're in 3-D space we can do something point of view by turning around in the new a transparent clock from the front and then look like counterclockwsie even though the If we change our reference frame by rotating it reflected in a mirror. Now if we construct new perspective, we see that motions are reversed. But this time we reversed the apparent particle not by moving the particles differently. to the phase shift compared to when we Why should the quantum nature of electrons two observers could be facing different phase shift. On the other hand, if we really path we'd have counterclockwise motion on negative phase shift. So it seems we have counterclockwise motion both give opposite sign Well, they can't really. But the only valid answer is the same because then there's no way to Remember that the effect of a phase shift on the e to the power of i times pi times the shift. equal to e to the minus i pi eta. Unless positive or negative shift on Any even integer--0, 2, 4, or -2, wavefunction by 1-these are bosons. etc--multiplies the wavefunction So long story short: in a 3-D universe, work the same no matter the orientation of the shifts that are multiples of pi, which in depending on whether it's an even or odd because it breaks the universe. Which means or more dimensions. But in a 1- or 2-D motion from a different orientation counterclockwise. Therefore non-integer shifts So, what is the use of all of this? Well, besides bosons and fermions, perhaps it does allow Just last year a team in France figured out that electrons in between them are sorta trapped and the metals they touch. Then by carefully applying more or less spin than what they should normally This team even managed to move the make them collide with each other, and by to prove their anyons had a spin of 1/3 Anyons could also be useful in quantum computing. probability between two possibilities, but with allowing quantum computers to or even storing quantum information in We know all of this is possible, but computer based on anyons. And there are many Nature intended to give us only but by looking very closely at how probability find a treasure trove of infinitely many cannot exist without our help, but these strange lower dimensional entities We'd like to thank Nord - makers of NordVPN - internet better than it is today free from used a Virtual Private Network, imagine traffic to flow. Nobody can see through the data. And with Nord's Threat Protection, users' downloading a file, threat protection checks threat protection checks if it leads to its security features, Threat Protection also your privacy. To learn more about NordVPN, Twelve years ago on July 4th, 2012 the ATLAS of a new particle to a packed auditorium Boson - the particle that makes the existence possible. To celebrate the fireworks of that edition UV glow print Higgs T-Shirt &amp; Hoodie. so after being out in the sun they'll begin we only are able to print a limited number. If then you'll need to put your order in by to check them out. There's a