Enjoy Good luck it Hello. Hello. What is your name? My name is Dalton Hertz. And where are you from? I flew here from Jamaica The crowd likes that Who are some of your musical inspirations don't Like Mind work, please Colton you're a little bit nervous, aren't you? Yes, don't be nervous. I want you to enjoy every second of this Hi, my name is Dalton Harris, I'm 24 years old. I'm from Jamaica and I am a performer That's what I do for a check. I Grew up in a single-parent household where it was my mother and my older sisters. We were dirt poor We had one room that we sectioned into different parts. We never had electricity or running water It was a humble life. Anybody wouldn't want that, but it was a perfect thing for me you know and not a sad stories like how I came out of that and now I'm triumphant, you know, so I'm proud of This is probably gonna be the biggest break I get this I can say Single-handedly the biggest woman most important moment of my life Now Dalton, what's the song please I'm gonna be singing. Sorry seems to be the hardest word Oh Wide out if a lot of people that I've come across Said sorry a lot of people could be left with a lot less pain Okay And Just one more question Dalton. What is this competition mean to you? It would mean everything because I wanted to be here for seven years. So this has been seven years watching and and then Preparing well, just go for it then What do I gotta do to make you love me But whatever I gotta do to make you care What do I do what island strikes me And a way to find but you're not there It's Why can't switch Oh it seems to be seems to be What am I gonna do to make you love me But what have I got to do to me you hear What do I do When sorry seems to be the hardest Dalton you know, what's amazing? Was just how nervous you were even Towards the end you nearly lost it I'm sorry if I'm being intrusive, but can you explain why you were so emotional there? I've been alone since I was like 15 But I've accepted it so You know and it's not a it's not a sad story it's just it's like it's it's been a lot it's been a long time Thank You see this on TV and you thought that's not gonna be me cuz I'm a gangster right You sang something which was sincere which was surprising gave me a whole new take on that song I've got to tell you I don't know why we have to experience some of the pain that we do But I'm so glad that your journey has brought you here because you are truly magnificent All I want to do is hear more of you sing. Thank you I'm just rooting for you more than am anyone I've seen so far. I really really want you to do well Thank you don't and this is too easy, so yes, thank you. It's a thank you any. Yes. Thank you It's a yes Good thing is it kind of happening from this. Yes What nice guy Man, well done Buddy, okay, you really did? Anthony the judges are ready to see you now if you want to follow me Anthony let me let me just let me start off by introducing how I know you because we know each other So answer the audition for your show a year ago And he son issues and he came in with a black eye for his audition. So stole my heart straight away I don't think I've ever seen anyone at first audition with a black card I've really got to know you over the last year and got to know you family and I think you're a lovely lovely guy lad I'm surely much Louie oviya lad I Want to say something you're being very modest here what Louis actually did was he Contacted Anthony after the show and gave him the help. I think you needed at the time. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you very much I'm ugly Russell and 28 and I'm from Liverpool. I auditioned last year for that stuff there and it was like fire To me and not you Montague, I like you a lot people gonna get you I can't even believe this I Thought oh my god. I've got a shot at this completion buddy. And then Started going down a rocky road, you know making bad choices the wrong decisions started getting weak So obviously I had to step up the competition myself devastated I Got an inbox on Twitter affair Libby I started shot and suing Obviously Sheba story in the papers and he said look you want some help. You know, I want to help you So I'll just film tally I'm gonna way to the up For months, you know, it really helped me. It was a blessing that place to me I wouldn't have been in this place where they I'm now a good place if away for Louie As soon as we had started clearing, I thought I'm getting Rob back on that x-factor and at all You know what? I want to give this another shot I'm not on the shake Just from the towel and because that's the easy thing to do both sound get by hope and make sure yourself You know, that's what I'm about. I'm thankful to be back. Oh, I'm absolutely terrified How're you doing with that help I'm doing good. Yeah, you know one clean fresh out the toaster And What are you gonna sing today? I'm gonna sing a song by Avicii and You know, it's called wake me up. The lyrics means so much to me Feeling my way through the darkness I can't tell where the journey will end But I know where a star They tell me I'm too young to understand She hung caught up in a chain Well life will pass me by if I don't open up my eyes Well, that's fine by me so wake me up when it's all over When I'm wiser All this time by Didn't know that I was lost hi Move A truck carrying the weight of the world But I've only got two hands a Whole began the chance to travel the world Don't have any plans so wake me up when it's all over And time I didn't know they always long Updating though they lost I didn't call the Amish love didn't know that I was lost You know what happening in My short stint as an X Factor judge so far 70% of Acts are all right, they come on stage. They're a bit vanilla What I'm looking for is the X Factor and what you've got is the X Factor and I'll tell you why Those scars those battle scars give you something that not everybody has because your Story is unique. You can sing your arse off and You just a great guy. Thank you very much There were certainly nothing vanilla about your performance it was truly authentic That you in Rob the face similar dark paths and what I know from my experience With with Rob and how much courage it takes how much ferocity it takes to get out of a dark place? It takes your life on the line Complete surrender and you just completely surrendered to that moment and I just want to say it was phenomenal and I think you're ace Sure, which are the question? Anthony my god, we've gone through quite a ride together over the last 12 months. I Will say two things first of all, just judging your voice right now. It was sensational Thank you so much Salman. You're the king. Thank you Second thing I want to say is about my friends here. Is that if you're lucky enough in your life to find your Mentor or the person who's gonna change your life and you keep your eyes open that person can change your life And I think you meeting Louie. I think that happened Thank you so much Arman to me. Thanks a lot. Thank you Thank you. Mudsy. I'll add I've got I've got to pull myself together up to that skinny and a sec um, yeah, I'm pretty emotional after that that Actually, not Louie Thanks a lot for eating. I'll tell you mr. Hart mine our way and expect and that you know It's fellow my pleasure so much more Sorry a lot of it she can't even saw okay listen it was a big It was a big moment for both his lab and you absolutely delivered father telling Yes, my Olivia don't you show much meat Absol thank you very much I don't think I should vote because maybe we have to closer There are no rules whether you should or shouldn't vote over someone I'm giving you a third. Yes, but I think You need to give them what you want to say Absolutely, yes And what's your day please um, my name is Jason away from I'm from East London cool How are you Jason I'm 25 years old Okay, tell me what the song you've chosen to sing today is and why the song is a song? I wrote could put it in my heart and um, it was the only song I wrote throughout the whole year 2015 and Why? x-factor this year, please I Suddenly lost my mom in 2015 I've always been terrified to do this show, but I was going free Texas and I remember my mom always telling me he needed extra take me to the x-factor and I Always said no and a couple arguments about it, and I'm reading that text I was just like, you know, I want to finally take off something. She's told me to do I know I Just want to inspire someone else and I hope I inspire people now Mama's my biggest fan was my biggest fan. She believes anymore. Do I believe in myself - like she's here But mama was so healthy No, Karthik, you still? See a my mom passing a bet Byron on piece of me died as well. I Just have to appreciate the ones now once you have them because he just need never know After three years. I'm finally able to take this off the list Which I'm happy about I'm sad because now it's once I thought it there's nothing else that I have Leftovers. It's a complete So family's final What was your mother's name Victoria Victoria, okay, let's do this Victoria With less time Then wait and other yeah, I'm thinking you will come In my heart and it spread it's um Cuz you're like her I won't let it take Oh Cuz so not Every morning I wake up with a broken heart Jaso your voice Passion incredible I Fail you so much J saw in 2014 I lost my father very unexpectedly and I'll never forget how the world swallowed me up on that day when I found out and I just want to thank you because that was a beautiful And a powerful song. I know your mom be really proud of you. Thank you Besides That is the power of music is that you can write such a beautiful song as touches on this panel It was it was absolutely brilliant. It was moving through a legend for what you've just done Wow, Jaso I understand how difficult that would have been to perform that be did and It was an amazing audition you have an amazing voice This is something we're all gonna remember I just have to kick this off with the first yes Thank you so much for sharing that with us, it's a yes Amazing song and it's a yes for me Say yes for me I told my mom every day that we design Literally under that's right every decision You want to make always thought to that participants, and he doesn't expect from radical trust Hey guys How are you doing Johnny juice yourself, my name is Ricky I'm from southwest London. Yeah And I have my beautiful family watching me. I've got my daughter Hence why I've got quite a voice voice cuz I'm no sleep. So Baby star and heaven needs the older ones. He's ten heavenly and star What are you gonna sing for us today? I'm gonna sing them Sam Cooke change is gonna come. Okay big song What does that so mean to you? I Was actually without going into too much. I was homeless for eight years So I really needed a change to come My name is Ricky, I'm 36 years old and I'm from southwest London Life before I met my partner wasn't great. I Was homeless for about eight years Grew up was on my own from sort of like 16 now. I've met my Alisha. We just hit it off We just had this great chemistry She's given me two beautiful children, and she's given me my smile back And they have just changed my life to the point that I didn't think I ever saw anything this beautiful and it's amazing and Now this could be the opportunity where something could actually be good in our lives and we can actually have something So have you tried out for anything like this before I I haven't okay, good luck Long time coming, but I know a change gon Oh Ricky I Know you might have a problem with you throw at the moment Nobody else in this audience knew that I've been you that that was an unbelievable audition Not only are you rocking man-bun, but you're rocking Wembley Arena right now Crickey your voice is so strong and your personality is so strong and I'd like to see so much more from you. So The point when it almost fell apart is the point where I really really really liked you because you picked yourself up This is why we make the show Genuinely to find people like you I'm gonna kick this off if they get It is a yes from me I think you've just changed your life today. I really do. Thank you. And obviously it's a yes You got four yeses You