Lenin in 22 minutes. Vladimir Ilyich Lenin. It`s hard to find a Russian city that does not have a street named after him. This man has no grave, but his body has been lying below the ground level on the Red Square, in the center of the capital, for almost 70 years. People were instilled with love and respect for Ilyich, Lenin was always close to Soviet people: a banner on a street, a photograph on a white wall, a red badge on their cloth. Who is he? Opinions vary: for some he was the great leader and the founder of the Soviet state, for others he was an ambitious fanatic who ruined millions of lives, for whose fantasies Russia paid an unprecedented and terrible price. Could his biography help to understand the reasons behind his actions? Let's try to figure it out. Simbirsk, where Lenin was born, was originally a far province on the outskirts of empire, a fortress on the Volga, protetion from nomadic raids. Having lost its military significance by the middle of the 19th century, Simbirsk turned into some kind of incubator for provincial intelligentsia. Karamzin and Goncharov, Lenin and Kerensky - all of them surprisingly turned out to be connected with this place. Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov-Lenin was born on April 22, 1870 in the family of the director of public schools in the Simbirsk province, Ilya Nikolaevich Ulyanov. The rank of state councilor, that he got through government career, made him into hereditary nobility. An amazing career for a person from a family of poor burghers in the city of Astrakhan, especially since Lenin's paternal grandfather was a serf who had left his landowner and mastered the craft of a tailor. Lenin's mother, Maria Alexandrovna, was the daughter of a doctor, Alexander Blank, medical inspector on the arms factory in Zlatoust, and then a poor Kazan landowner. In a rural estate, where her own aunt replaced her mother, who died early, Maria Blank, was only able to get some education at home. Nevertheless, her abilities allowed Masha to learn several foreign languages, played the piano well and passed an external exam for the title of teacher. Family, parents, brothers and sisters always meant a lot to Lenin, an important fact to understand all subsequent history. In a comic questionnaire, Volodya Ulyanov wrote that he loved his brother Sasha and sister Manya most of all. And he always answered to the questions of adults that he wanted to be like his older brother Alexander. In high school, student Volodya Ulyanov when he was only 11 years old, Russia was shocked by a loud assassination attempt in St. Petersburg. On March 13, militants from the revolutionary terrorist organization Narodnaya Volya blew up the royal carriage, and then one of them, Ignatiy Grinevitsky, threw a bomb right at the feet of Alexander II, tsar &quot;the liberator&quot;. A few hours later, the emperor died in the Winter palace. All the conspirators were caught and executed, but the revolutionary ideas spread among students continuosly. Two years after the assassination of the emperor, in 1883, Lenin's older brother Alexander entered the department of natural sciences of the Physics and Mathematics Faculty of St. Petersburg University, where, as they say, he showed great abilities, but his fashionable passion for Marx and Plekhanov played a cruel joke with him. In his fourth year, in 1886, his elder brother Alexander Ulyanov organized a terrorist faction of the Narodnaya Volya, for which he even wrote a program, and explosives for a bomb were bought with the money from the sale of a gold gymnasium medal. The assassination attempt on Emperor Alexander III was scheduled for March 1, 1887, the symbolic anniversary of the previous regicide, but on the same day all the conspirators were arrested. Despite the tearful petitions of his father and mother, Alexander Ulyanov was sentenced to death two months later and was hanged in the courtyard of the Shlisselburg fortress along with four comrades. After the execution of Alexander, family life became difficult in Simbirsk: some of the friends and neighbors immediately distanced themselved from the family of terrorist, others supported Alexander Ilyich, whom many in the city sincerely loved. The execution of his beloved older brother was a blow to Volodya Ulyanov, and perhaps the very event that completely changed his fate, and at the same time the fate of the whole world. Maybe the shock of May 1887 was the key to all his further actions and decisions? According to the memoirs of his sister, after the execution of his brother Vladimir allegedly said: &quot;We will choose another way.&quot; But first he had to finish high school and go to university. &quot;Neither in the gymnasium, nor outside of it, was not a single case noticed for Ulyanov when he would have caused an bad opinion about himself by word or deed&quot; - these words belong to Fyodor Mikhailovich Kerensky, the director of the Simbirsk gymnasium and at the same time - the father of Lenin's future political rival, Alexander Kerensky, who headed the Russian government after the February Revolution. Moreover, both Volodya Ulyanov and Sasha Kerensky were born in the same city, Simbirsk, on the same day on April 22, but with 11 years difference. Truly, Simbirsk was the mystical cradle of two Russian revolutions. There are memoirs about those years spent in the Simbirsk gymnasium together with a great classmate left by several of Lenin's classmates at once, and all characterize him as, in modern terms, an intellectual leader. Here is an example: &quot;I do not know any case when Volodya Ulyanov could not find an exact, exhaustive answer to any question on any subject. Truly, it was an encyclopedia, useful reference for his comrades and universal pride for his teachers&quot; . The passion of the high school student Ulyanov for dead languages was especially often remarked. The Latin teacher used to say at the end of the lesson: &quot;Ulyanov, translate further&quot; - and what he managed to translate impromptu was the hometask for the whole class. Having received a certificate with a single 4 for logic, 17-year-old Vladimir Ulyanov chose the Faculty of Law of Kazan University for admission, because he understood that due to the past of his terrorist brother, path to the universities in the capital was closed for him. In Kazan, he attended classes not as carefully as in the gymnasium. Much more he was attracted by the stormy student social life and forbidden political circles. As a result, already in December, freshman student Lenin was arrested, expelled from the university and sent to his mother's estate for participating in a student political meeting. He spent his freedom usefully, reading revolutionary-democratic publicists, above all, Nikolai Chernyshevsky. Quote: &quot;The novel &quot;What is to be done? &quot;plowed me deeply&quot;. Vladimir Ulyanov never returned to Kazan University. In 1891, he passed the exams of the Faculty of Law of the Imperial St. Petersburg University as an external student. He did not work for long as an assistant to a barrister, that is, a lawyer, but the main thing that really attracted him was the path of revolutionary struggle. Contemporary Marxist Terry Eagleton once joked that while some philosophers tend to think of electronic music, Lenin tended to think of electrical wires. He had in mind the Leninist habit of considering any political and social phenomenon from the roots, from the matter, from the physical structure. Lenin became a revolutionary because he found a purely scientific explanation, firstly, of how the world works and how to change it, presumably for the better, in the most effective way. For him, Marxism was as much a science as physics. He perceived Marxist philosophy as a tool for decision-making in a variety of political situations. Further in the biography of Vladimir Ulyanov there would be a lot of events - marriage, exile, the choice of a pseudonym - &quot;Lenin&quot;, - in the memory of the execution of gold mine workers on the Siberian Lena River. Almost fifteen years of life in exile, struggle with other politicians, establishing contacts with a foreign revolutionary movement, but there was nothing more important than acquaintance with Marxism in his life. Even marriage, according to the recollections of comrades, turned out to be not for love, but rather for Marxism. For example, a comrade and close friend of Lenin, Gleb Kryzhanovsky, said this: "Vladimir Ilyich could find a more beautiful woman, like my beautiful Zina, but noone was as smart as Nadezhda Konstantinovna, more dedicated than her we didn't have... &quot; In questionnaires in the column &quot;profession&quot; Lenin usually indicated &quot;writer&quot; or &quot;journalist&quot;. After the revolution, he really became a member of the Union of Soviet Journalists. Lenin firmly believed in the power of the media, his own media. &quot;The newspaper is not only a collective propagandist, a collective agitator, but also a collective organizer&quot; - this is a quote from his article &quot;Where to start&quot; published in the Iskra newspaper. The true history of the Russian Social Democratic Labor Party (RSDLP) does not begin in 1898, when the first congress was held, but with Iskra, founded by Lenin in 1900. &quot;The flame will ignite from a spark (&quot;iskra&quot; in rus) ...&quot; - a line from a poem by the Decembrist Prince Odoevsky. The editorial office was located in Munich, then - in London, Geneva. The newspaper was printed abroad, delivered to Russia by couriers illegally, and in 1912 Lenin published the newspaper Pravda - a proletarian, legal and mass newspaper. 285 Lenin's works were published in it, the authorities closed it only before the war itself, when it had already played its role as a collective organizer. And then the First World War began. During the first imperialist massacre, Lenin lived with other Russian social democrats in the safe and neutral Switzerland. After the February Revolution, the German authorities allowed a group of Bolsheviks to travel on a sealed train through the territory of Germany and Finland to Petrograd. A jubilant crowd met him at the Finland Railway Station. It was there that the well-known by anecdotes performance took place on an armored car with the call: &quot;Long live the socialist revolution!&quot; The main thing from this speech was published the next day in the Bolshevik newspaper Pravda - the famous April Theses, the program of action of the Social Democratic Bolshevik Party after the February Revolution, the plan of turning the bourgeois-democratic revolution into a socialist revolution. The political struggle began in July, the Provisional Government issued an order for the arrest of more than 40 prominent figures of the Bolshevik Party from July 5 to 9, 1917. Lenin, who was accused of working for the German government, was hiding in Petrograd, on the night of July 9-10 he moved with Zinoviev to Razliv under the guise of a mower. They settled with the worker of the Sestroretsk arms factory Yemelyanov, who lived in a barn house that summer. A few days later, policemen appeared in the village where Lenin and Zinoviev were hiding, this was the reason to change the place. The leader had to move to a hut on the other side of Lake Razliv, so they spent about a month. The story of misadventures would later become an important subject of Soviet art. We miss many important details, because it`s well known what happened next: the coup on October 25, the capture of railway stations, bridges and the telegraph office, the storming of the Winter Palace, the arrest of the Provisional Government, the Decrees on Land and Peace, and, after just a few months, the beginning of a long and bloody civil war in Russia. Why did Lenin win? Maybe because the Bolsheviks promised the people an immediate end of the war that has been going for three years, the transfer of factories to the workers and land - to the peasants? The uneducated majority understood the slogans of the Bolsheviks even more simply - to take away from the bourgeoisie and divide. In the eyes of the lower classes, Lenin was a man with miraculous, all-conquering strength, the heir to Razin and Pugachev. In fact, these were the slogans of the Socialist-Revolutionary Party, the slogans of the peasant war and popular revolt. Having quickly and cunningly intercepted the political agenda from the Socialist-Revolutionaries, the party of Lenin, the Bolshevik Party, then completely squeezed out its allies in the October Revolution of the Left Socialist-Revolutionaries from political life, and many - from life in general, becoming the main and only political force in the country. On August 30, 1918, an assassination attempt was made on Lenin at the Michelson factory in Moscow. According to the official version, the half-blind Socialist-Revolutionary Fanny Kaplan shot him, the officially announced reason was revenge for dispersing the Constituent Assembly. &quot;I shot Lenin because I consider him a traitor. Due to the fact that he lives so long, the onset of socialism is delayed for decades.&quot; After interrogation, Kaplan was shot on the territory of Kremlin, her body was burned in a barrel, and the ashes were scattered in the Alexander Garden. Having received several dangerous wounds, Lenin nevertheless survived, but most likely this assassination attempt and constant mental stress finally undermined his health. Lenin had his first stroke in 1922, with an incomprehensible speed, a surprisingly active person turned into an invalid. He could see, feel touches, hear, but couldn`t analyze the information coming from all these senses, he could hardly speak. It was even worse with writing, the cerebral cortex was damaged, the generation of graphic symbols was impossible, the simplest arithmetic calculations also caused him severe difficulties. Lenin himself was well aware of the unusual nature of his illness. The refusal of an analytical and trained mind to seek solutions to the simplest problems was real torture for him. According to eyewitnesses, Lenin often said out loud &quot;it's terrible, it's abnormal&quot;, &quot;some kind of unusual, strange disease.&quot; On January 21, 1924, the disease won. However, before his death, Lenin managed to leave a will - this is how historians call the letter to the party congress, written at the end of 1922. There, the leader evaluates his closest associates and warns the party against factionism, warns that the relationship between Stalin and Trotsky could become its cause. "The relations between them, in my opinion, constitute more than half of the danger of that split that could have been avoided. Comrade Stalin, having become General Secretary, has concentrated immense power in his hands. I am not sure whether he will always be able to use this power with sufficient caution. On the other hand, Comrade Trotsky is distinguished not only by his outstanding abilities, personally he is perhaps the most capable person in the present Central Committee, but also boasts self-confidence and excessive enthusiasm for the purely administrative side of things&quot;. As we know, a split could not be avoided. After the death of Ilyich, as they began to call him in the post-revolutionary years, an amazing process begins: a real cult of personality, a myth, almost a legend, was created through the efforts of propaganda. There was a lot of pseudo-religion in all this: for example, the Mausoleum, designed by the brilliant architect Shchusev, resembles an Egyptian pyramid and a Sumerian temple, a ziggurat. The access of Soviet citizens to the mausoleum was conceived in the image and likeness of the Christian tradition of worshiping relics. On January 26, 1924, Petrograd was renamed to Leningrad, the most important cities, villages and streets were named after Lenin, in each city there was a monument to the leader. This is how the writer Sergei Dovlatov later ironically recalled this: &quot;There is a monument to Lenin in every city, in any regional center. Orders of this kind are inexhaustible, an experienced sculptor can sculpt Lenin blindly, that is, blindfolded.&quot; Later, there will be jokes among the people that when you find yourself in a new city, you should look where Ilyich points on the main square - in that direction there is always either a good hotel or a good restaurant. References to Lenin's writings were obligatory in scientific papers, dozens of stories about the &quot;kind grandfather Lenin&quot; were written for schoolchildren. When children were accepted into youth party organizations, later into pioneers, handing over badges with Lenin. His portraits hung at the entrances of factories, in the halls of universities and high offices. There was also an endless series of films about Lenin: &quot;Art belongs to the people!&quot; At the same time, Lenin's articles and letters were carefully hidden from the people, more similar to the fantasies of a bloody murderous maniac. For example, a proposal to carry out a merciless mass terror against kulaks, priests and rebel officers, and those dubious - to be locked up in a concentration camp outside the city. Or a letter to Zinoviev on November 26, 1918: "Only today we learned in the Central Committee that in St. Petersburg the workers wanted to respond to the murder of Volodarsky with mass terror, and that you restrained them. I object that! We compromise our ideas: we call for mass terror acts even in the government decrees, but when it comes to actions, we slow down the revolutionary initiative of the masses, quite correct. This is impossible! We must encourage the energy and mass character of our terror!&quot; So who was he, Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov-Lenin? Great revolutionary, reformer, creator of the state of workers and peasants, or the greatest evil genius in history? Or just a myth created by propaganda? Under Lenin, foreign invaders were expelled, a new state appeared, however, the Brest treaty and the split of the empire along ethnic borders, the creation of independent republics instead of provinces, many will definitely never forgive him. In conditions of total devastation, a large-scale electrification of the country began, a number of scientific directions were launched that determined the might of USSR in the future. His achivements - abolishment of nobolity and estates, equal rights for all citizens regardles of their gender and nation, 8-hours working day and paid maternity leave and vacation for the first time in history. And at the same time - mass murders of clergy, destruction of churches and merciless repressions on nobles, officers, kazaks, businessmen. His contemporaries also had different opinions. &quot;Moron, moral idiot from his birth, Lenin showed to the world something terrible; he destroyed the greatest country in the world and killed several millions people - but the world is so mad that we keep discussing: was he a good person or not?&quot; - that`s Ivan Bunin russian writer awarded with Noble prize. &quot;We can assume that our century would be the century of Lenin and Einstein, as they could accomplish the synthesis, one - in science, another - in actions&quot; - that`s Berthran Russel, english mathematician and philosopher, aslo awarded with Noble prize. &quot;Lenin could become the leader of revolution and perform his long thought plan, because he wasn`t a typical russian thinker. He was partly sectarian and partly a russian, like those who built this country...Only this kind of people can succeed and win&quot; - Nikolai Berdyaev, russian religious philosopher. No matter how we think of Lenin it is clear - he totally changed the fate of Russia, he was a political titan, who could combine the ultimate genius and ultimate evil.