iOS 18 was just released, but I don't want to already been talking about, like locked or the new iMessage reactions. Instead, I want to they're not even mentioned in Apple's supposed So let's get into it, first with the features iOS will now tell you in the battery settings if above the battery graph, and for this example, I it also shows in the charging history as orange not appear instantly right after you plug it in. another time it did pretty much show up right a video, there is now a pause option, so you and it will be the same video file. To continue can also stop it at any point [with] the middle by hitting the right button. Speaking of videos, there is a new video scrubber. It now shows a of being in line with the carousel like it was when they get to the end instead of just stopping for sharing your Wi-Fi password with friends. the Wi-Fi section, and then go to whatever network it'll show a QR code and your friends can just use this one is really cool. For certain iPhone the beam width, not just the intensity. It seems with the so-called &quot;Adaptive True Tone Flash&quot;, Because those actually have an array of nine LEDs a middle, long distance lens and an outer one. brighter than it would be if you just had it on most people would realize quickly anyway, but settings menu, instead of it all just being on and third party apps all just lumped together. So I kind of wish those ones were separate, but it lock screen customization. Now with the clock, a rainbow, and you can make it look like that. And new magic sparkle option, which seems to just be for each one. Now in the new control center, one finally an on-screen power button at the top and you'll get some haptic feedback and then it'll And also it's worth noting that doing this will type in the passcode. So Face ID or Touch ID won't down. Alright, next up in the Phone app, it now you can actually type in the numbers that For example, I created this contact with the name of fives. But if I go to the dialer and enter the 9, 2, the example contact shows up at the top now. And if there's multiple matches, you can hit you can still type in a number if you want. Moving screen. If you long press on an app, you'll by then pressing on one of these icons if there of the widget. You can also convert it back if app has multiple possible widgets like this clock one. Otherwise for one of the other widgets, you and then choose one of the other ones. Alright, the radar. In the shortcuts app, when you go to can now have multiple &quot;If&quot; conditions for the same like a date, I now have an option to hit the plus &quot;if any&quot; or &quot;if all&quot; are true. Whereas before you And you can also even add more than two if you little feature having to do with the private choose between using a fixed or rotating private to care about this though. Alright, so now let's I found while digging through the changelog and Real quick though, a shameless plug for my truly go on there if you have a heart condition. You'll my attempts at humor. So if you want to check that so onto the lesser known features, starting off option for a 5 second timer, before it was just you can now press and hold on that top left flash you had swiped up for the full controls. Before and off, though you can still do that. Next in call history. You can search by the person's you can even search by the date. So if you type Next here's a cool little new feature in the meaning to add certain cards, you can now just the number and everything. I was able to do this supports any card or most cards that have the tap of really cool new convenient features in the noticed. So first of all, and this is going to be folders feature in photos is no longer useless. the idea is that folders let you organize are to photos, folders are to albums. But before existing albums to folders, but now you can. So that are automatically created by random apps? Now call &quot;Auto-created&quot; to reduce all that clutter. the one within the folder. You can even put one course take albums out of folders. Next, this is filter button at the bottom left. And one thing waiting for forever. And that is sort by Recently For example, you probably experienced this. If you which is tagged with the date of 1996, something look for it in the photos app, it's nowhere to be the middle, somewhere in the photo library with to show up by the date you added it, which makes button to hide screenshots from the grid. If you and that will also hide screen recordings. screens. Like I tested this picture of the screen that along with other screenshots. Keep in to analyze the photos, to categorize them. So it picture of the screen, for example, but it should the screenshots, you can then create a just with the screenshots. And then they'll all filter button, you can also use the Filter option Another change in the Photos app, there's more are almost like special albums. Before there was and recently deleted. But now there's a bunch more QR codes, documents. So that could come while editing a photo. If you make certain you'll see this new Adaptive option, which is if you keep this enabled while you copy the edits I guess, look similar to the previous one. Even seems this new adaptive option will only show up tool. If you only use the automatic filter, it'll effect is inherently adaptive. Alright, next up really excited about. First of all, you probably with any emoji or sticker. But what you might not just like you would an emoji. So basically you just in the message without being a separate big ridiculous stickers, just like you would any behind the scenes, but really good. And that is resolution of photos that are much larger, up to this for full quality, but apparently there was would notice that occasionally we would send up super small. Hopefully that is a thing of the friends or family with Android, and that is full Services, and it will now allow you to interact things like supporting delivered messages, typing depend on if your carrier supports it. I know the the settings and then General and then About, and &quot;IMS Status&quot;, it should say &quot;RCS&quot;. It might take And also you have to make sure that the person app they're using. I know that the Google Messages apps might not. Alright moving on, a couple of new anyone. One is Vocal Shortcuts, and you can get then Vocal Shortcuts. And here you can type in a and then say it three times to train it. And so basically anything, or some predefined actions. already. And then if I say that phrase at it will then trigger that shortcut. Another new Vehicle Motion Cues. And you can find this in the Motion Vehicle Cues. And it's set to Automatic basically the idea is this is for reducing motion of use the gyroscope to move relative to like the Sometimes when the phone is not moving, but your you. For some people it's worse, and apparently put in the control center to toggle this on and the calculator. Yes, this has been revamped. First at the top left to see previous calculations. which is new, instead of having to swipe like you can also hold that to clear everything. There's press, and it will show options to go into basic off on that for a second. And there's also this like this, previously you had to turn your phone going to come in handy. You basically tap to and there's tons of possible units, everything that. And then there's the very interesting math looks like just regular notes. However, you can do X is now a variable. So if below it, I then do to 10. And if I hit Return to accept it, it types and it will show an option to insert the graph and you can do a lot more, that's just simple let me know down in the comments if you're excited definitely let me know down there and be sure to out one that I did miss. Now next up, I would iOS 17 hidden features because those are still I'll put that link right there and click on. And @ThioJoe over on there. And anyway, thanks for