What I want to talk about is really an issue of human freedom. It has to do with the question mean by that. I am sure many of you have heard one another and one Pole said to the other: capitalism and socialism?&quot; And the other Pole the first Pole said, &quot;Well, you know, under shook his head. &quot;Well, under socialism,&quot; he a matter of fact, in the present intellectual evaluation of capitalism. The interesting the issues, in this debate which has been have changed. The argument used to be about should we have government control of production control? And the argument used to be made of centralized government and of centralized There is hardly a person in the world who socialism as a method of economic organization, examples of Great Britain, the examples of states around the world that have adopted of the post office and its fellows have put thing is that nonetheless, there is widespread and there is widespread support for some vague The most dramatic example of the change in that I am really bringing out is Germany. horrors of the Nazi totalitarian state in war under the Erhard policy of Soziale Marktwirtschaft, with an enormous rise in total income and German people, of the ordinary people. And the horrors, on the one side, of a totalitarian a relatively free market, here in Germany intellectuals remain- not only remain, have have become proponents of collectivism of gone into the more extreme versions that you've reading about in the papers of the terrorists. those who write for the newspapers, those anti-capitalist in their mentality. And the this shift- not this shift, but what is it anti-capitalism on the one hand, and pro-something One of the most interesting analyses of these mathematician named Shafarevich. His essay, say-in Russia, but it appears in English translation been edited by Alexander Solzhenitsyn, and to you. In it, he discusses the appeal of or two thousand years- and he comes out with to the death wish in individuals as a fundamental he argued- I'm sorry-the appeal of socialism, sign of a death wish for society on the part strange, and at first sight, highly improbable all to read that essay, because you will find deal more sense to it than you would suppose going to take that line. Maybe he is right, for this. And that simpler reason is a combination ignorance and misunderstanding about the relationship I may say the emphasis on moral values is not have economic problems; it's not on the approach, the problem of trying to interpret terms of such concepts as the morality of whether capitalism is humane or socialism with that is that moral values are individual; to do with what each of us separately believes are. Capitalism, socialism, central planning are neither moral nor immoral, humane nor We have to look at what are the consequences and from that point of view the crucial thing at what the proponents of one system or another the actual results are. Socialism, which means government ownership appealed to high-minded fine people, to people objectives of socialism, especially because social justice. Now those are fine objectives, will that those objectives should appeal to the system- no matter what its proponents at the results it's crystal clear that they Social injustices are clearly greatest where injustice and torture, and incarceration in of magnitude than it is in those Western countries we have been accustomed to regarding freedom in a country like Yugoslavia, which is a much yet you ask Djilas- who languishes in prison at the University of Belgrade who have been ejected from the country, social injustice people murdered because of their opposition Again, you look at the question of inequality, degree of inequality? In the socialist states my wife and I were in Russia for a couple going with our tourist guide and I happened up there, the Zivs that were sort of a takeoff tourist guide out of amusement, how much do for sale. Those are only for the members of the Soviet Union enormous inequality in the small select group that has all of the services that are in a very, very low standard of living. the wage rate of foremen versus the wage rate ratio is much greater than it is in the United I am reminded again of another- I seem somehow trip that we took to Russia we stopped in there a marvelous man, a man by the name of year ago at the age of 83 or 4, and I believe he had been one of those who had signed and of freedom of thought and speech in Poland. seemed to be fairly free. He was a man, who was very hard- he was then in his 70s I may a very hard thing for a man to go back on as follows to us, he said, &quot;You know, I used is an ideal. We can't have it in the real to be able to afford it.&quot; And he said socialism has a house and two servants. And I said to &quot;Yes.&quot; (laughter) Now capitalism, on the other hand, is a system and voluntary exchange. It has repelled people- because they have thought it emphasized self-interest by the idea of people pursuing their own interests you look at the results, it's clear that the capitalist societies of the world- only where have you had both freedom and prosperity. look at the Western countries where freedom all have our defects- but by and on the large, in Great Britain, in France, in Germany, in freedom on an individual and personal level world... in Australia...Japan to a considerable you look you will find that freedom has prevailed so has the well-being and the prosperity of justice and less inequality. Now, the question is that you have to ask, two systems, has socialism failed because men who got in charge? Was it simply because went the way it did? Has capitalism succeeded I think the answer to both questions is in each system has been true to its own values- don't mean that- has been true to the values people who live under that system. What we're concerned with in discussing moral the relations between people. It's important the morality that is relevant to each of us conduct ourselves... behave; and then what's are the relations between people. And in judging relations between people, I is to do good to others, whether they want to do good to others as you see their good. it, the fundamental value in relations among of fellow men, to treat your fellow man not but to treat him as a person with his own persuaded- not coerced, not forced, not bulldozed, fundamental value in social relations. In all systems, whether you call them socialism, self-interest. The citizens of Russia act citizens of the United States do. The difference self-interest. The man in the United States his self-interest leads him to worry about acting as foreman in a factory...his self-interest (laughter and applause) Both are pursuing their own self-interests, it in their self-interest, is different in should not be interpreted as narrow selfishness. I quote a man who speaks much more eloquently from Walden. Here's what Thoreau said about &quot;There is no odor so bad as that which arises that a man was coming to my house with the for my life. Philanthropy is almost the only mankind. Nay, it is greatly overrated and If anything ail a man so that he does not his bowels even- for that is the seat of sympathy- Being a microcosm himself, he discovers- and make it--that the world has been eating green is a great green apple, which there is danger will nibble before it is ripe, and straightaway and the Patagonian, and embraces the populous on unselfishness as a moral value. More important and more fundamentally, whenever to do good by using force, the bad moral value you realize this is highly relevant to what of a capitalist society, which I'll come back The essential notion of a socialist society is the master, if society is to be run from have to order people what to do. What is your on a milder level. Whenever you try to do to using force. How can you do good with somebody from him? The only way you can take it away a policeman, a tax collector, who comes and if you really have a socialist society. If if you have supposed government bureaucrats on force. But whenever you resort to force, you must not question people's motives. Maybe of what they do. Give them the benefit of You know, there's an old saying about the You have to look at the outcome, and whenever triumphs over good intentions. The reason is not only that famous aphorism heard it: &quot;power corrupts; absolute power That is one reason why trying to do good with because the people who set out with good intentions they are not corrupted they are replaced by at getting control of the use of force. But the most harm of all is done when power is persuaded of the purity of their instincts said that philanthropy is a much overrated virtue. Heaven preserve us from the sincere by heaven is going to make you do it whether greatest harm done. I have no reason to doubt good. Maybe they weren't. But he was completely to use any methods at all for the ultimate the experience of Hitler versus Mussolini. rights because he was a hypocrite, because he was just in there for the game. He started he was willing to be bribed by whoever would at least some protection against his arbitrary believed in what he was doing and he did far minor key, in which you may not join me I the same thing. I have no doubt that Ralph what he says, but that's why he is so dangerous (applause) In the past few decades... in the past few the moral climate. There are few people who see evidences of it here. The lack of civility chants instead of arguments-these are all climate. But we see it also in the rising property, in the kind of rioting that broke problems of maintaining discipline in elementary in moral climate? I submit to you that a major philosophy which had been prominent in society, to a supposed belief in social responsibility, from his responsibility for his own life and that's his responsibility and he's to be charged society that is responsible. If you adopt then it belongs to nobody. Why should I have everybody? If you adopt the view that no man somehow or other society is responsible, well good? Now of course- don't misunderstand me, we are is affected a great deal by the society of us are different than we would have been So I'm not denying in the slightest the effect which we operate both on our values and on a set of social institutions which stresses the responsibility of the individual- given in which he operates-to be responsible for likely to have a much higher and more responsible which you stress the lack of responsibility Let me note the schizophrenia in the talk a tendency to excuse the people who are harmed as the victims; there is always the tendency didn't riot in Harlem because they had no were bad people or because they were irresponsible did to them. That's the argument, but nobody way. If the people who rioted are innocent to them, then aren't the people who are singled Do you hear these same people say, &quot;Oh, no, the poor under their feet because they're Society is forcing them to do it.&quot; If you you ought to be even-handed both ways. It is- I can't say responsible because that would to be responsible for the victimization. And sides. We must all of us be individually responsible that be harm or good. There is an additional reason why you have pardon me for returning to my discipline of law which has never been contradicted to the more for something there will tend to be more you are willing to pay for anything goes up, of that thing. We have made immoral behavior of the changes in our society, been establishing behave in ways that most of us regard as immoral. it. One of the examples that has always appealed Great Britain, not now but in the nineteenth in the eighteenth century Britain was regarded of people who broke the law. In the nineteenth reputation for being the most law-abiding service: everybody knew about the fact that the way you could one in, say, Italy or New of smugglers, with no respect for the law, to the law? Very simply: by the laissez faire eliminated laws to break. If you had complete of the Corn Laws, there was no more smuggling. bring anything into the country you wanted. If you didn't need a license to establish up a factory, what was there to bribe a civil because there was nothing to bribe them for. Now of course, these patterns- there is a anthropology courses, and these patterns, has been happening in Britain in the last away from essentially laissez-faire and toward This reputation for law obedience is disappearing. of the government, about members of Parliament, about the rise in gang warfare, and the rest. you've got more laws to break now. It's much laws which everybody regards as right and make laws that people separately do not regard force. Is there anybody in here who has a you may not have a prudential objection to But does it seem to you immoral to speed? have never yet found anybody who regarded regulations of a foreign country. Here are of stealing a nickel from their neighbor, income tax returns so as to reduce their taxes laws have a moral value that people recognize these laws; the other set do not appeal to Let me give you some more examples from the was attempted as you know, had disastrous morality. Something which had been legal to illegal and you converted law-abiding citizens program last Sunday night a great story on that the New York State tax on cigarettes in the state of South Carolina. So you have the South Carolina low-taxed cigarettes, and New York state tax stamps on them, and then all cigarettes sold in New York state are incentive for people to break the law, so in a different form. The obvious answer is you will eliminate butt legging overnight, of policemen who are devoted to enforcing them and turn them to useful work. I go back, however, to the essence of capitalism As I say, the essence of a capitalist system cooperation without compulsion, of voluntary to add, no actual system conforms to that dealing with approximations, with more or impediments and interferences to voluntary capitalist system is that it relies on voluntary will buy something from me if I will pay you is that both parties to the exchange must in his Wealth of Nations that individuals could promote the social interest because basis of mutual benefit. Now, I want to emphasize extends far beyond economic matters narrowly want to get across here, and I want to give Consider the development of language- the government that dictated the English language planning board that determined what words Language grew through the free market, through used a word; if it was mutually advantageous keep on using it. Language grows, it develops, market. Consider the body of common law, not thing, but the body of common law. People the court to adjudicate their dispute. In body of common law. Again, no central plan, academic institution. How did scientific knowledge development of science? Is there somehow or are the most important problems to be studied, are developing such agencies, but in the history Science developed out of free market exchange. of an authority, but voluntary cooperation work that is done by economists in other lands; it they like, they discard the parts they and more complicated system through free voluntary benefit. Similarly to a free market in ideas. same kind as the economic market and no different. it a violation of the free market in goods as Great Britain did immediately after the citizen of Britain may buy a foreign book of England to acquire the foreign currency? or is it a restriction on the free market I want to give you a final example which goes raising, and that is voluntary charitable back to the nineteenth century in the United the closest approximation to a capitalist government was spending roughly an amount income, almost entirely on the army and navy; about 6 or 7 percent of the national income, come to be regarded as welfare activities. the greatest burst of voluntary charitable or any other country at any other time. When by the voluntary benefaction of the man who - The 1860s. That period of the nineteenth colleges- universities throughout the country. in 1890 by voluntary eleemosynary activity. and development of the nonprofit charitable missions, of the Society for the Prevention You name it, there is hardly a voluntary activity- Why was it that voluntary activity flourished? among people- cooperating to pursue their and efficient way of producing charitable I ask you, what is the common element in all common law, scientific knowledge, ideas, charitable and complex structure without any central planning in language, in common law, in scientific and yet you developed complex mechanisms, which after the event you can analyze in logical through harmony rather than the attempt to is often reproached as being materialistic. a chief motive, but yet again, look at the very noble motive but it's cleaner than most. great achievements of mankind? Can you name government committee? Can you name me an invention that was produced by a government bureau? The great works that are the great achievements of individuals--of a Shakespeare or a George example because, of course, as you know he Guide to Socialism. He regarded himself as is a striking demonstration of the virtues in science it's Einstein, Copernicus, Galileo... ideas not through government central organization as you know, despite persecution by the centralized of charity, Florence Nightingale was not a individual, human being, who was seeking to was pursuing her self-interest. The plain fact is that in any society, whatever who are not interested in material values in the world today that are more materialistic Russian society, it is the Chinese society; stress on materialism, on achieving economic non-materialistic achievements of mankind. minorities. What we want for a society that great human achievements is a society in which materialistic objectives, who are interested the greatest degree of freedom. And the only anybody has ever discovered, that comes close you hear people objecting to the market or you will find that most of those objections people are objecting to is that the market of what the person talking thinks the people talking of the objections of a Galbraith to objections of a Nader to the market, whether or an Engels or a Lenin to the market. The problem is that in a market society, in own thing, in which people make voluntary persuade people and there's nothing in this in that kind of society it's also hard to power in the hands of an angel he might be but one man's good is another man's bad. And is that by preventing a concentration of power, harm which really concentrated power can do. is not humane or inhumane; socialism per se tends to give free rein, much freer rein, It tends to develop a climate which is more of a higher moral atmosphere of responsibility every realm of human understanding. Thank