Hey, it's me, Destin. Smarter Every Day two. In the most recent video I uploaded, I struck a match with a bullet We did that a long time ago. It was really fun. We wanted to do it again with slow motion video, and we saw some In fact, I kept a list while editing of things I wanted to talk about that, physical things that happened during video that I thought would So let's just go through my list here. The first thing that happened at about eight and a half minutes in the main we had this really interesting thing I just happened to be plugging along and then I paused because I was working on And I found this frame. Now, it is a single frame in the video. If I play it real time, Three, two, one, fire. [John] All right! [D] But if you pause it, there's And I instantly recognize that as Rolling shutter and aliasing, I was like, man, there's rolling shutter. Now what that means is those two They are the ones that got hit. you go back and you look at the slow [SlowMo Whooshing Noises] Isn't So that means that the bullet came along and it plucked 2 of those And when it did that, [SlowMo POW!] They Vibrated And I don't in my head right now But you would think, And it's fixed at the bottom there's that means that the amplitude of the sine Would be larger at the TOP of the match ....because you have Just for fun here's the guitar string footage, from that rolling shutter video now you can see it's going back and forth back and forth, now imagine one side of the guitar strings would be pinned in a certain location so instead of having this sine wave looking thing you would have more of a tapered version and if you go back and you look at what and that's incredible. I thought that was cool I didn't wanna put it in the main channel video because I just wanted to keep that tight. But on the Smarter Every Day 2 we talk about whatever we want! and I thought that was really neat and I thought you would find All right, so let's see what else we have. Oh, here's another one. At around twelve minutes in the main I guess it would be right Think about the momentum of that system. You have a stationary match, So all the momentum is moving But as soon as the bullet touches the very tip of the match, There's this explosion, I don't know what it is. Long story short, gasses go Watch this. So that's one of two things. Number one, either it's a chemical the bullet coming in contact and it just blows that out, or what and then the release of that strain So, one of those two things is happening, and I'm leaning toward explosion, Another thing that's cool is, back towards the gun, the gasses come back So, you see, it's like bullet. Gasses, gasses, that happens in the system, And I thought you'd really like to see that, because I thought Okay, gunpowder. If you look at some of them, especially the ones where I put a white when Henry and I were shoot, we would talk It's such a dirty burn. Now, I think that has something to do with the type of rifle we're using So, here, let me just zoom in here. I got to focus my camera. If I focus right here. Okay, so, the rifle that It's a Ruger 1022. Like, everybody in the world But the ammunition we're firing Now, if you just look at it, Let's go way in here. Let me focus. If you just look at it, rifle is a lot bigger than Now, what that means is when you focusing cartridge, the brass cartridge Excuse me. So, as that thing goes in there, you have a place where Right. Now, if you have the correct size up to the rifling, and the bullet will It'll be started almost. But if you shoot a short bullet, what 's going to happen is There's going to be a gap between Now, what I think is happening, and I explained this better in the I 3D printed these things and showed how the powder sits up in there I think that the gunpowder I don't know that that's true, but it just 22 short rifle bullet would have So I think it's going out So I think the gunpowder is It's going down the barrel, That's why I think we And, in fact, check this out. This is that smoke stripper thing We put this there to strip Look how dirty that is. And if you look really close, you can see there's actually pitting And I think that's just straight up gunpowder, like, hitting So I think that's really interesting. Now, all this is important because I think it played in to the really crazy thing John Henry and I decided we wanted to take a match, and we wanted to shove it into the rifle, And once we did that, the rifle and maybe even We had no idea. But a crazy thing happened. And if you saw the main channel video, But we struck the match with the bullet. It's crazy. And this is the reaction that we had that I wanted to put in the main channel video, You know, sometimes when John Henry and you decide to try something So... [Both hysterically laughing] [D] So... There's a match down there. We put a match in the gun. We put a bullet behind the match. Allow me... To show you, a bullet carrying a match, striking a match. [Speechless disbelief] [Mouse Clicking] What do you have to say [J] My mind is completely [Laughter] [D] Yep, and she lights off. So there you go. John Henry thinks this is the only Can you. [J] I would like for somebody [D] There you go. You're getting Smarter Every Day. I hope you enjoyed that. Okay, it's time to go to bed. Okay, so here's the theory. Now, we were talking about the gasses I would think that if you had a match in the barrel if the shock would shatter the match, I don't know that's true or not. but I would assume that it would That's not what we saw. We saw the bullet, which is We saw the wood of the match being held And it was splintered just a little bit. But the bullet was actually But the match wasn't spinning. So I have a theory now. I can't focus again. It's just a theory. I think that the gasses that came around pushing the wooden match that's very the barrel, and then the bullet So the relative velocity between the match and the bullet, I think they were pretty And then that thing was just there, in that direction, and it just I think it's hilarious. It's just a hilarious video. And it's just, like, unbelievable. And it's so dopey. You're like, how on earth is But it happened, and we caught it When I told Henry about that theory, man, you can science words this And I don't think it would happen And I think he's right. So, anyway, on the only shot that we did, So that's it for my little note list here. I kind of did them out of order. But did you see anything interesting worthy of talking about any phenomenon I enjoyed it. My goal was to get a really pretty shot. I'm glad that we did. It's just something I I hope you enjoyed that video. I hope you enjoyed the second channel. I just like to just, I don't know, just kind of talk about stuff here I don't know. I don't take it too seriously. Big thanks to everybody There's a lot of people that follow the second channel and I But ultimately it's just Also, I want to thank everybody that supports smarter everyday If you're a patron of smarter everyday, Smarter Every Day baseball. You can do that at patreon.com But a really cool thing that I'm doing recently that it seems to be There's about, I don't know, it's like 60 or 70,000 I just shoot them an email And that's cool because there's no You can just say, oh, it's a new, I can go check that out. YouTube serving it to you It's just there. So if you wanna check that out, You can check that out at smartereveryday .com go to the email list and join Anyway, that's it. Thank you so much for watching. You're getting Smarter Every Day. Bye.