Want to know the differences between MVC and MVVM? tutorial I'm going to show you step by step inside a project how you can manage MVC So Alex here from rebeloper.com. open up xcode and let's dive in. ahead and check out the link in the description for the resources and you will find a link for this xcode project that I have previewed for you because we are going to dive deep into MCV versus MVVM and no bs, and yeah I'm just going to make this a understand what the differences are and yeah hopefully you will be able to use just take a look at project I have removed the delegate we are just simply adding the rootviewcontroller MVC table viewcontroller in a UINavigationController. starting and yeah here we have MVC. reminder that I do have a service so I just assume that you want to fetch some data so this service is just completing with the success and with a model. Now as you can see fetch MVVM data. What you have to know the way the MVC model and the MVVM model are the same. So yeah just so you know same. So we can get a kind of a comparison of how each architecture works. Now MVC Model View Controller. that the controller controls everything. and intern the model feeds and the controller controls the view the controller in formulas So let's just take a look at here. simple table view controller and what we is one section and we have models and yeah we have the number of rows set to data dot count and self row at reusable cell here with the identifier. Now this identifier is provided in the cell to in just a second and then we add our cell from the data index path dot row. We register the cells and we fetch some data. Now we do that with the service dot fetch data, upon success we grab the data and reload the table view. Now let's take a look at our view. Basically our UITableViewCell. Here we have our identifier which I was yeah we have that dot completion with set this to be of style to be of subtitle. Now when we do add our model set up our text label in the detailed text label. So just so we know what the model is about, level and age. We are going to kind of display some developers according Okay! So here we have from the model and the last name from the model. particular object, we are going to set the detail text to junior, mid level or senior. less than equal or Now and basically that is it. So let's run this in the simulator There we go. Joe Doe, Ken Dont, Alex Lorem is inside the model, in the service. There we go. MVC data. This is okay kind of let me just say not that this is okay MVC is fine, that out that in some cases you want to go even further to MVVM because of the Now as you saw we have quite, controls the cells That's the problem here and because these are let's just see here in the didSet in model and we are doing some logic here which is fine for this simple, but it will be a pain stuff. Furthermore as you can see here we have the MVC model which we are, using something where MVVM view model for this cell. So let me just close this and go to scene delegate comment out the line on 28, 25 sorry. Now let's build and run and basically But with MVVM. Now let me go through and using MVVM. and View Model. It is the same, it's just the name of the struct MVVM model. fetch in the service with MVVM model. kind of having this we want to of course want to create the put it somewhere in this kind of groups and we are putting it inside the view of this view because we can also have a So that's why we are putting this separated this to view and these are views and controllers of course. So let's just take a look at some differences. So let's just go into the table view controller and see what we have changed and so you can follow along. and we have registers with the new table MVVM data and yeah basically that's it, but here and the data we are having of MVVM models which we are adding this data. So what we have changed is that adding MVVM view model little bit on that view model because that's the gist of this tutorial. So this is the only change that we have made basically. Now this is a really good example of separation of concerns. so we are doing the logic for those So here we go, we are creating and inside the initial analyzer we are providing our MVVM model by injecting this dependency. Now the name will be and this is, but you know we are performing logic here, we are grabbing the first name creating a brand new string here So this is much, much more cleaner because Now let's take a look at the cell. So table view cell this is much, much cleaner. There we go. Text label dot text equals MVVM model of course when we do set the MVVM model we run these. Basically these two lines of you just want to have a dot notation that is the most you want to have, of course you whatever but MVVM viewmodel.name or Compared to kind of wishy-washy approach on the MVC table view controller where we kind of create our name here Much more clearer, power of MVVM. between MVC and MVVM. proper architecture in your project. bell because in the next video create custom frameworks in swift for that make sure to check out these videos as well too. I talk a lot about Swift, I will see you in the next one.