[music] [music] Hello, friends! What you see here photographer Nick Ut. This photograph named Kim Phuc. The girl, 9 years old, village, behind her you see the glow of were dropping on Vietnam. The girl got severe in the hospital. We will return to her later in this we are going to talk about The Vietnam War is considered one of page in the history of the United States practically nothing, a war that lost, a war that sparked the anti-war I will also tell you about today. A war humanity were committed and proven, talked a lot when I was little. know what the village of Son My is, is not discussed as much, in the past there in Vietnam. And today, I will tell you Vietnam was a French colony, rise of the national movement, the communist the Vietnamese started talking more and more about to start fighting for their independence, essentially, Vietnam falls into is occupied by Japan. The French reach the Japanese have captured this territory, government in place. In some areas, this the Japanese replaced it with their own officials. In 1945, the war ends. Japan, loses the war, and at this point, has a strong leader -- a communist named of the Vietnamese capital. Ho Chi Minh Independence of Vietnam, various political factions, with And so, in 1945, the Japanese occupation proclaims its independence. At this moment, the French return to their former colony demanding independence, its independence already, with the Japanese no longer a strong opponent. The French begin the French Expeditionary Corps. history because the war in France 1000 km from Paris, and no one dying in some far-off place? We've just reached peace, and now we've some far-off lands. The French end up to 1954, they fight, constantly is fighting for its land, Vietnam is fighting for The French, as I said, are fighting poorly, the last few years, the French in the Americans. The U.S. spends about three billion dollars on that war, the Indochina War which is a monstrous amount for Battle of Dien Bien Phu occurs, where the allied forces, a horrific defeat. The Vietnamese simply annihilate them, and, in fact, the U.S. vice president at that time, the future U.S. president, Richard Nixon, even raises Vietnam. By the way, we heard I talked about the China-Taiwan conflict. is involved for a very simple reason: communism region: China is already a communist state, Vietnam it are Cambodia, Laos and Thailand -- they are all susceptible to this spread believe that if communism isn't with the help of the Chinese and jumping from country to country, and the Americans are involved in the funding the French campaign, but the Battle of Dien Bien Phu alongside the Vietnamese ends with It was agreed that Vietnam Vietnam and South Vietnam In North Vietnam, Ho Chi Minh and socialist, while South Vietnam would remain a monarchy, with the last monarch, referendum, direct elections would be held, and choosing a president or a So, this was agreement reached [Music] Friends, behind all my videos, there are efforts of dozens of people, There are directors, cameramen, makeup artists, runs smoothly, it's important to entrust partner, like Tinkoff Business. It's convenient Business offers a lot of great features. First, range of business services: free and even business development loans. free, and for new businesses, there's Business will handle everything for you. account servicing, and cash withdrawals up to Open ruble and foreign currency transfers in yuan is just 0.1%. at the bank - your personal manager, who will questions either by phone or directly part, if you open an account with Tinkoff year of free account servicing. the description, just follow the link. [Music] It might seem like peace is established, with Vietnam, like Korea before it, divided into and essentially, these countries are in South Vietnam, the following situation Ngo Dinh Diem, overthrows the monarchy, declares that there because it is socialist. He announces has taken place and that he has been elected declares war on North Vietnam. North friendly towards the South because single state, and the Vietnam War begins, What's happening there? North Vietnam 1956 to 1961, for 5 years, a fierce All the political movements dissatisfied with Ngo Dinh Diem and his regime the Viet Cong. The Viet Cong North Vietnam. The Viet Cong With advisors, weapons, and by zone. And a brutal guerrilla war begins. terrorism against the South Vietnamese blowing up and shooting state officials, killing up to were severe. Why did this happen? suddenly find itself facing a guerrilla about the territorial unification of Vietnam, as a classic puppet regime leader, allowed himself Latin America, Africa, and South incredibly corrupt. That is, if you look what was Saigon like back then? the capital of South Vietnam, where all relatives. His brother was relatives headed banks, so everything belonged to his clan. of power if you weren't a relative or a friend -- American aid, which was embezzled. Americans sent weapons there, and, of course, was sold on the black market through was true for humanitarian aid sent thing is drugs. We remember Wars, opium began to be cultivated in China and called the &quot;Golden Triangle,&quot; and in heroin trafficking in Asia takes place. It is located and partially Thailand. In fact, the scale and the government of North Vietnam The Americans, of course, knew about this. and very corrupt, but nevertheless, they were like, &quot;this person, Ngo Dinh Diem -- he is certainly a bastard, but he is our bastard, he is not a communist, he represents our interests, and we do not want communism to spread in the this situation persists. Through the demarcation line, the Viet Cong are bringing in weapons, bringing in people. conducts raids and executions there. At some point, South Vietnam achieves territories, and then another thing a hot zone, the country is and then it breaks out. The socialist fight against the Kingdom of Laos. And so, of Cambodian territory, weapons and Vietnam to South Vietnam. This route along it, the socialists, the communists the guerrilla units. And all this situation, arrangements between France, America, and despite ongoing negotiations that regularly the United States, despite Chinese is grinding up the population of Friends, it won't be news to you if I say that in the office, or here, when I'm recording my vlogs, my body started to feel really stiff, so I from which I don't even want to get up -- it's It's orthopedic, which means it's good for is adjustable and movable, take, for example, can be adjusted to any arm position, from elbows arms as there are adjustment height adjustment and forward-backward adjustment. In the Cougar Throne Royal chair, rocking chair. You can also increase to your comfort, or you can simply will be fixed in the position you need. are adjustable to your height, you relax, meaning you can even sleep in it. pillow for your neck and lower back, so you And the premium breathable eco-leather stylish -- it looks like a racing car seat. is its reliability. The frames and bases of steel, so the chair easily withstands loads of up a real throne for work and rest. For those &quot;Minaev&quot; for a 20% discount, the promo code the link to this awesome chair is in the description. So, the then-government of South the guerrilla movement, they are less The guerrillas are well-entrenched all over they constantly massacre government South Vietnam turns to the U.S. send two helicopter the government forces in the fight against begun the intervention, they are only China is providing military assistance to North of Ngo Dinh Diem, so a coup takes place and government is reshuffled, and replacing one another. But amid this chaos, the They install a new government, they dictate to prevent the spread let's not forget that in the Soviet Union the Cuban Missile Crisis has just ended. brink of nuclear war, and naturally, between the Soviet Union and the Americans. trying to conduct peace negotiations with That is, everyone should meet, influence freeze the conflict, as it North and South Korea. These negotiations comes of it, the negotiations fail, points of agreement with the U.S., and so The Russians, like the Chinese, also believe that he simply enjoys greater support from the South Vietnam, and Vietnam will negotiate, right? The negotiations reach a dead end. with an American destroyer, which will go down in history as the &quot;Gulf of Tonkin Incident&quot;, is not recognized officially. The American conducting radar surveillance, helicopter units in case of escalation, in case, for example, North the South Vietnamese troops and the Americans there under threat. of course, the American destroyer is there nothing threatens it, and at any with its onboard artillery. So, it is there The North Vietnamese patrol these are disputed waters: North Vietnam believe they are in neutral waters. So, at some point, a conflict arises, and later it is confirmed of course, not the Vietnamese. Well, there were three to assume that the boats were like: &quot;Oh, look, attack it, because we're outgunned 15 times over, yeah, we're gonna attack it for sure&quot;. Of course not. admitted it 20 years later. The boats were and it all ended with the boats fleeing. Because they were afraid they were about to be immediately, Congress passed the the president has the right to use on the planet if there's a threat to America, as there really is a real threat a full-scale American In 1965, three important operations the Americans. The first operation is two. These are bombings of North the Americans developed a doctrine to preempt North Vietnam from striking South Vietnam and supporting the guerrilla movement. First, they bomb a small target, and if bomb a bigger target -- a graded tactic. Further, and more, threatening to bomb so that North Vietnam would stop to chaotic bombings, with the Americans carried out significant aerial Chinese and, importantly, Soviet military aid, began, but nonetheless, the Vietnamese have feel at ease in the skies from the early days by missiles. The second American operation -- operation by army units aimed and North Vietnam military from adjacent to the seventeenth photograph by Horst Faas &quot;American you've probably seen it a hundred times, American troops go into battle under flying low over the jungle. We should also take a look at what at the characteristics of this war The Americans involve all their allies in the Pacific region -- these South Korea, Thailand, Japan, the Philippines. from these countries participate in the transportation of goods goes through South Vietnam because all Vietnam. North Vietnam is supported by three and most importantly, the legend that, essentially, the war against Honestly, it's not that I have just by reading different historians, I Soviet comrades was not that large. Indeed, these were instructors rocket operators and pilots. These people involved in intelligence. Undoubtedly, it is not confirmed that we had participate in combat actions. Although There was a legend that later became somewhat of a folk story, about an American plane flying, when suddenly a MiG appeared out of nowhere, -- and Russia supplied the Vietnamese with MiGs, and the MiGs performed spectacularly in that conflict. So, this MiG shoots down the American jet, and the last thing the U.S. pilot hears in his headset is the enemy and one of the pilots is actually named in Vietnamese Li Si Tsyn. So, like, a Soviet officer, Lisitsin, was the one who shot him down. Whether this was actually accounts that our pilots fought successfully. Nonetheless, the fact is that junk, but with the most modern weaponry. This tanks, and so on. The USSR strongly, and the Chinese also supported the conflict becomes international. it breaks out into hot spots. There was of a nuclear war -- the Cuban Missile Crisis, now, welcome to Vietnam. This military for Vietnam, military aid and Now, for the war itself. It is jungles, rice paddies, foothills, An absolutely impenetrable there are hidden anti-aircraft missile airplanes, so the Americans losses during the war. The population, provides no support to them, and set up ambushes. From South Vietnam, some aid to the Americans -- intelligence, local guides -- and moreover, according to the accounts the U.S. army had a very condescending attitude &quot;Dear Vietnamese brother, step aside, will do all the dirty work for you&quot;. I mean, they fight the guerillas, and the Americans would do Vietnam into three sectors, with three The general strategic front-line task is to fighters, and then merge pushing toward the borders. But this is complicated people who sympathize with Ho Chi Minh and the the guerilla units operating At some point, it becomes clear and obvious that nature. The Americans, Cities are wiped off the face are drenched in napalm, which we igniting and relatively slow-burning, depending handheld flamethrowers are filled, are dropped and instantly burn out spreading from military targets are burned down, jungles are burned. later be called ecocide, or genocide of nature: dropped from above onto the kill crops, so that in this way the civilian is not an option, or else there will be nothing the crops. So, in fact, the Americans inhuman war. I'll make a small that are well documented. This war is lots of photographs of this war, so this is a war So, actually, the socialists, shy away from any methods. American and return home, tell If a village is suspected of aiding the Americans, which is the same thing, it is So, essentially, acts of sides, because this is war. At first, people John was standing next to them in the ranks, and the and the same is happening on the other side. then revenge is taken through torture. it naturally takes on all its monstrous forms. The civilian population of Vietnam suffers horribly -- rice fields are burned down, no one the military sites, their deaths do not the humanitarian situation is horrible. by American aviation, helicopters, people hide wherever they can. by Horst Faas, titled &quot;Escape to Safety&quot;, from the bombing in a rice canal to suffer significant losses, and actually, &quot;A Paratrooper Wounded&quot;. Here we see help. The war inflicts significant seep into American society, and in begins to form. It's not yet Americans realize that they are fighting it's completely unclear why they got involved there. then among the younger people, all across America. An important point propaganda very seriously. Millions of &quot;Surrender, switch to our side, They use some absolutely fantastic methods. unburied corpses. That is, if someone left where they died, because and cause all sorts of troubles for relatives. So the Americans record the &quot;voices loudspeakers. They drop these they are about to storm during ground timers set. At a certain moment, the tape recorders start playing, and these wailings fill the that the souls of the dead are calling to them. The population is poorly educated, archaic, take advantage of this. The Americans also discredit They send postcards to government officials, where &quot;Happy Birthday, you have received a transfer to your So that the most competent suspicion and would be arrested by their they weakened the regime. It should be noted The Americans received some fantastic numbers, up to if we consider the figure of North Vietnam, that's still a lot. one Vietnamese, the American budget turning someone into a defector with propaganda played a very important role. radio, they used tape recorders, leaflets, On the other side, of course, propaganda Chinese comrades and Soviet comrades. Ho Chi Minh was a very important figure who orchestrated the whole war. From the North of unity, meaning he was revered by the unconditional popular support, unlike those people who were trading opium and American was widespread not only in the government American officers. By the end of the war, American was using opium. During opium, indicating a terrible level of drug corruption -- yes, there is a descendants of a mafia clan in Vietnam, got wounded, and was discharged A year later, he returned to Saigon with there was no authority, and they weapons, smuggling people -- basically everything This, of course, had a huge demoralizing influence on the American army. Soldiers did not understand why they were fighting, they were addicted, lawless, and in general, all this had a terrible In 1966, the Americans conduct aimed at clearing the demilitarized and to some extent the Americans army is certainly stronger in every sense but the Vietnamese have also a very good fight; the battles are bloody. but primarily, the Americans are holding against humanity in this war, there are but two are the most well-known ones. when North Vietnamese guerrillas were clearing out the village of Dak Son. According to their South Vietnamese forces and sympathizers 250 civilians were killed -- this is a completely try not to talk about it, but nevertheless, another infamous incident happens -- the massacre, the mass execution in the village of My Lai. with the support of North Vietnamese It is generally going very well, very the Americans back, and at some point, they is the ancient capital of Vietnam. There manage to capture it. The Americans hands, and there they find yet another and communists are as brutal as people are found with their hands tied with shots to the head, some were tortured all or many of them, allies of the And just like that, the guerrillas simply the Tet Offensive is stopped by the Americans, and the Vietnamese troops Tet Offensive begins, the second an uprising of people sympathetic sabotage groups operating. And the Saigon this later, but first let's talk about My Lai. the Americans receive information that in the village of My Lai. Three companies the village from all sides. The day before, A man highly respected in the loved a lot, his loss was quite And at the memorial mass, the priest, he for their comrade. And the next morning the throwing grenades into houses, throwing grenades are hiding, no partisans were there at that point. it is particularly brutal with the platoon commanded It is proven that his platoon people, in total 500 civilians were the Americans showed no restraint. this investigation started: Major Thompson -- that the Americans are killing civilians, and he sees improvised bomb shelters, and grenades at them, and he lands his helicopter soldiers and orders the gunner &quot;We will shoot you if you approach the civilians, the helicopter, we will mow you down&quot;. And in this way, he saves a number of people, subsequently, he flies out of the village, infant who was lying in a ditch, where his parents had been killed. And this like when a small crack from a stone the whole glass shatters. This incident and the these two points split the American society. When Thompson returns to America, he are committing atrocities, and he demands an investigation. a war going on. The conservative part of our guys now? They are fighting, what, should they against us. Never mind, our people are more important&quot;. And the second incident, this is of the Vietnam War, &quot;Execution in Saigon&quot;. point-blank. When this photograph was on Saigon, the attempt by the communists the capital, guerilla reconnaissance with the support of the military, began to suppress scene is a shootout near a Buddhist religious aspect to this conflict because elites were Christians, while the majority point, Buddhists began to be oppressed, and public squares, and these photos also made shot to the head, that photograph caused man being killed point-blank. It became clear that a slaughter, a massacre supported ahead a bit and talk about this photograph because it's a very important moment. The story of this photograph, in fact, shows that it's not just weapons that kill, but media kill too. Moreover, media kill much faster, they're better In Saigon, there was an uprising, which was South Vietnamese army. Nguyen Ngoc Loan led during the clearing of this Buddhist district. right in front of his troops, executed was an American photographer for the along with his friends from the U.S. get a good photograph. And then he finds himself Nguyen pulls the trigger, Eddie Adams presses ends up in the press. A wild media this is an inhumane war, that the Americans execute unarmed people. What admitted and spoke out many times that the brigadier general was fulfilling his duty -- he executed was actually a guerrilla the deaths of dozens of people, some of whom executed in front of the formation as a warning; And then Eddie Adams also ends up in the U.S. after the an American suburb, runs a small restaurant, who he was, a fierce campaign against for him to be lynched, demanding he be tried to appear on television several times to say he had clear evidence that he was the laws of wartime, he was obliged But the public doesn't want to hear any of this, Eddie Adams regretted taking that Such is the story of this photograph. Speaking of My Lai -- this was not atrocities committed by the Americans. unit called &quot;Tiger Force&quot; within had been doing the following soldiers, just like during the when Native Americans scalped their enemies. the 20th century. Cutting off ears, noses, this war was fought. In fact, in forces and the South Vietnamese the Americans realized In America, the anti-war movement was growing, that war. The Vietnam War gave rise to the rock music, the flower children, who smoked peaceful demonstrations began, arrests, but America was taking to the streets, Next, we have the year 1968, which is a very spreads to Europe. In Paris, it coincides of 1968, when students built of Paris. The trigger wasn't the Vietnam War; boys and girls into different dorms, together. But by this time, France was already leaning De Gaulle, whom they considered a dictator. And so, 1968 bloomed into a generational conflict between England, and in Germany. In Germany, in 1968 one of the most terrifying terrorist which I will definitely tell you about later, Union, there was the Thaw, and of course, evidence that the Americans were And the Soviet bloc fully supported Vietnam, horrific atrocities, the USSR asserted. would be replaced by Brezhnev, the Thaw would culminate in the Prague Spring of 1968 and the Paris Spring, the hippie movement, Prague. protests in different countries, and how they ended. Vietnam War. In 1968, during the U.S. elections, President Nixon wins. He enters office with moment, during the election, there is already a he realizes that the troops need to be withdrawn. &quot;We're ending the war, sorry, heading back to Washington.&quot; Actually, because most of the killed American I don't know why that happened, but the process of Vietnamization. What does that mean? provide even more money and weapons, but thus minimize the losses The policy is adopted, but it is going very poorly, because the already demoralized understands that the war and, in fact, the American soldiers another famous photograph from the end &quot;War is hell,&quot; which is an accurate American soldiers felt. In 1970, pro-American coup, and this is immediately in Cambodia. North Vietnamese to prevent Cambodia from zone, into a communist country, Cambodia. Naturally, the communists are also supported by the Soviet Union. Cambodia, along with Laos, becomes which the Vietnamese will recruit steps of American troop withdrawals bombing of Vietnam will continue until 1973. And in 1973, it reaches its peak, bombing of North Vietnamese the final operation &quot;Lam Son 719&quot; takes place -- runs through Laos and Cambodia. Mass massive deployment of South Vietnamese said that despite the support the South Vietnamese army And all this genocidal bombing marks the point when it's all over, the war is lost. a final attempt to breathe new he visits China. And at this point, relations begins. Taiwan, as you being the representative of do not recognize Taiwan, they recognize China, aid to Vietnam. But actually, at this is well-equipped, and the Soviet Union modern weapons and its officers, and instructors. So the USSR will support them In 1972, the famous Easter offensive of the North Vietnamese troops and the guerrillas The offensive began on March 30 and year. The communists would win South Vietnam managed to hold the line. But is no longer possible, they start withdrawing their forces and begin to persuade to negotiate. And actually, in between the government of North they go very successfully. They go very withdraws from the negotiations because such impossible conditions that the North walk out of the negotiations and leave that they are once again at a dead end; it was that we, with our presence, have led the war -- and the war continues. And make North Vietnam return to begin carpet bombing of Vietnam, the most powerful bombing of the entire war. amount of bombs, including cluster bombs, the infamous bombing of Dresden by the Americans spend almost several months their aviation can reach. And in January 1973, negotiations resume. On January 27, [Music] the Americans commit to withdrawing to withdraw their troops. South Vietnam determine their fate -- whether they will be one or leave, in December 1974, North Vietnam gets to work on the South Vietnamese problem. when they realize that the Americans are not already almost empty. In 1975, advances on Saigon. It is the spring of 1975; the fate are demoralized, they simply surrender by And, essentially, without firing a single shot, as they later joked, without even breaking a single light bulb, the socialists episode and another important photograph. Look at The Americans are dumping their was named &quot;Operation Frequent Wind&quot;. realized that the war was lost diplomatic mission staff, and American evacuating some of their allies one after another on the embassy roof, ships. There isn't enough space on the deck, free up the landing pad for of course, cannot evacuate everyone, because Saigon at this point. And then, everything All of the five or so generals commit suicide to avoid capture. officials in the South Vietnamese government the same time, there is People in Boats. Those who understood that with executed, they took their belongings, their loved ones, crossing the border waters and fleeing many did not reach shore. So, this exodus a rather tragic story, where the worked as part of the South Vietnamese government, to escape. Some drowned, some were captured, In essence, this is where the communists did not live to see the fall of Saigon. Saigon an important place in the new history and total reunification of Vietnam under the control of communists. And that's the end of the war. So, what this war? During the war, the United States dropped 6,727,000 tons of bombs on Vietnam. For comparison, during World War II, the United States dropped 2,700,000 tons of bombs on Germany. When I beyond comprehension, because these are 1967, the Americans sprayed the jungles and crops, to make join the South Vietnam side. of Vietnam remains contaminated, which the Americans caused without no Nuremberg trial, there was by the English philosopher and public the so-called &quot;Russell Tribunal&quot;. It from America and France, such as Beauvoir, the writer. Essentially, demanded that American crimes in humanity and that a second Nuremberg The public uproar was very serious, Lieutenant Calley, who was among those My Lai -- much later after the war, there 1980s the court finally there was a huge public movement in support of Calley, reduced to 10 in court, then to 5. put Lieutenant Calley under house arrest. and he spent 2 years under house names were changed to let the guilty go free. The Americans, of course, weakened in Southeast Asia because empire, with all its aircraft carriers, do anything to Vietnam. They basically to their prestige was incredible, and at the same the global economic theory -- Singapore's leader Lee important as a deterrent against communism. Vietnam gave rise to what is known as the Vietnam Vietnam in total, many returned home as cripples, many died from their wounds. is a syndrome that affects people life, and people who can't find their place. And this is that's what the film is about. One of the most syndrome, of course, struck society. Afghanistan, and you understand, Afghanistan, the Americans rubbed their hands together Vietnam&quot;. And the second component of the of society, meaning the doctrine that we do not politics beyond the borders of the United States, public humiliation. Despite the fact that, seemingly, the Americans lost, and their image the U.S. made a number of strategic gains. During the war, bases were established on Okinawa Taiwan, where American equipment was so-called forward deployment, meaning unload, and everything would then be they functioned successfully, many are still operational to this day. Now, Wikipedia tell us? States of America, and in particular, there's also on the territory of the United States itself South Vietnamese military lost approximately among the civilian population are unknown. South Vietnamese guerrillas and soldiers of the North Vietnamese Army lost about 1 million soldiers, and about 2 million civilians were killed. It is said that around 4 million lives were lost claimed 4 million lives in over 10 years. a terrible blow to the society, everything foul, terrible, and unjust as if it were revealed by litmus paper. In conclusion, I would like started with, the photograph of The chances that she would survive were absolutely horrific burns from hospital, and then, as she herself propaganda. Communist Vietnam used her at public forums. She traveled to demonstrated the horrors of American she spoke in Africa. I don't remember if little Kim grew up and emigrated to Canada. Nobody knew where she was for a long people found out that she lived in Canada. backstory and a happy ending. Dear these videos on historical events. Thank you that's quite important to me -- 100 million a number that I still can't because it's like the population when I started this blog, I had no idea the first 10,000-50,000 subscribers, touching, despite the fact that I have been the most important thing is that, of course, well-known, there are moments like or saying, &quot;Let's take a picture together, let's take a selfie,&quot; and of course, that's very nice and cool, no question about it. But tell me -- that is, the feeling that I'm Although for me, it's not work, it's [music]