Welcome to this special episode of WW2 Wayfinder. Today I've travelled to the Swiss Military Museum here in Switzerland, [Music] In this episode, we'll look at the King I'll take you through some of the features of it as well, when it served during World War II. So the early 2000s and since then it's undergone a condition. As you can see the work is progressing takes a while, nothing about this tank is easy, been for a very long time. So the work is very slow, fantastic job. So one of the most unique features of the restoration project as you can see from the it means we can actually look inside the turret So this is it. This is inside the turret of the done on the restoration process so far with that I'm actually stood inside the turret of one be in here and actually see it all. To give you will start first of all where the commander would or be folded up as we see here and there is this Commander's cupola and in there were vision slots. of vision around his tank so that he could keep an enemy tanks were located. Just forward of the and this gauge here is of particular interest. would enable the Gunner and the Commander as well relative to the position of the hull and you going on, there's a lot of sensory overload, to not going to be able to do that. He only has his outside world are completely blocked off. and the team here managed to work with other using 3D metal printing and now it's here and the hull and this tank becomes operational again. the mounting point for the gun site. The L71 gun is that was to make way for the site. Here obviously these two brackets at the top was where it would would have looking straight out towards their and that was the third crewman that would occupy operational environment. Some parts of the L71 gun restored, so there would be less room in here than the MG34 would be mounted. Now the MG34, by the line, was an older machine gun. Clearly the MG42 at of the MG34 and was now the main machine gun in vehicles, the MG34 was still the best option MG42, the barrel is pulled out and canted off to 45deg to the right. Whereas the MG34 barrel is just rolled around and split from the receiver. So and makes it far easier when it's fixed here in space. Here we've got the spent link shoot and that would collect those spent links and spent tank. One other feature as well, on the Loader's side, Springminen and other counter measures that if his tank was under threat. And it's really cool Another interesting piece that the team fan. This was completely missing when they got the was a real challenge to make. But they've managed place and it looks really good. Although think from an engineering point of view, it's a to recreate and it definitely helps to finish that they've got that part there and it will be can see here, these are the ammo racks. You've got other ammo storage in the main hull of the tank. 20 kg [44 lbs] and it was the Loader's responsibility possible on the Commander's orders. Get them into Gunner could send it downrange towards its target. was about a 7 kg [15 lbs] warhead and it would be traveling and the gun could engage targets out to 3,000 meters comfortably. So it gives you an idea of how far and how fast it could send that shot down So now I'll take you up into the Commander's cupola obviously, you had to use these step ladders at the moment but it will hopefully give you it was like to be a commander of a King Tiger Commander's cupola and you can see clearly that loving this! This is is an amazing experience to as that of a wartime commander and King Tiger. of the gun and the the main turret itself is an KwK 43/L71's recoil system was this, the muzzle main turret itself. This would help dampen down the shot leaves the end here. So as part of this all over the place and it's really cool to see. that sort of thing then this is an absolute some of the driver's controls, with the pedals and and be used properly. This component here, this so that when it's mounted properly and the turret part of the floor of the turret and of the tank The team are doing excellent work on this and tank. So on the back of the turret then, we can door. This thing is an absolute beast of a door heavy it will be just from the sheer thickness of the rear on each side and on the front quarter as what they say on the tin. They are for hanging that was to also provide a little bit of armor was here on the rear of the turret, from any on there, just acting as a little bit more armour. we've got the port for the MG34. That's the port the main L71 gun here and even compared to that L71 on a Tiger II is just a beast of a gun. Right and here, we can see the vision slot there for the I mentioned earlier, how offset the main barrel issue that always crops up when King Tigers are particular King Tiger itself. Is whether it's really such a thing. Both turrets, the one that that was designed for the Henschel chassis were made are technically Krupp turrets. They designed and 'turm' or production turret. And this is one that But again, that's just a complete misnomer. It was onwards, right the way through to the end of their 50 however, used the more rounded turret, that was because the Porsche design for the hull never to manufacture the turrets. They made 50 out of that's why you see early King tigers in France sided one that is typically associated with the couple of design faults with that earlier turret shot trap. Now a shot trap for those that don't and then ricochet down into the hull and then trap. And that needed to be eliminated. And with that problem was removed. The turret designed wider Commander's space, here on the side of the hull. which caused problems and delays. That problem was So here you can get a size of the ammunition used height. 180 cm [5'11''], so you can see just how big these is the round that was fired from the L71 gun. that this could be traveling at over 1,000 m per Now the other two crew positions in who would also be responsible for the front gun in a great deal of work in terms of the restoration Maybach HL230 P45 V12 engine would sit and it Tiger was just too heavy for it. Combined with Although it was a good transmission, again it of this particular vehicle. And it's interesting it also powered the Tiger I and the Panther and and for those vehicles it was fine but for had planned to develop a upgraded version of and be more capable of shifting the weight of an end before that was able to be implemented. going on here at the moment and the work that process. The Maybach engine and the transmission restoration elsewhere and that's just taking a anymore, the parts for them aren't made anymore. and that takes time because you need skilled that they're doing is of an exceptionally high this should be up and running. And when it is, it So one design improvement with the King Tiger over wheels. Now on the Tiger I, they were interleaved. it came to changing the road wheel or if they they're just overlapping, so it means you can on. it's okay. Admittedly, if you've got one with these two off to get to that. But it definitely in the field. Made it quicker and that is all the the difficult conditions operating in a remote Now despite all of the problems with the King engine. The one thing that Germans got right with Tiger was knocked out by a frontal shot to the was 150 mm (5.9 in) thick. But it was canted back at a the armour was about 190 mm (7.4 in) thick. And no Allied was 180 mm (7 in) thick and that was canted back at 10deg. of the armour on this vehicle was like nothing the the war they started to come close. Now according Tiger. It is believed that it belonged to Schwere Panzerabteilung 506 and it was brought onto the unit strength in September 1944. So there is every in and around the Arnhem area during Operation episode of WW2 Wayfinder and looking Tiger restoration project. If you want to find them is in the description below and if you're in their collection is vast! And it's incredible [Music]