- [Radio] I want you to go to 180 - GFA 737, going to 180 speed. I am not a pilot. So what am I doing trying to land a 737 passenger jet? Okay, this is weird. - [Radio] (indistinct). - Oh, okay. (chuckles) Well, I'm trying to prove a point. Let's keep the hands on How big is the difference between what we think we know and what we actually know? Uh-oh we're gonna miss Well, we're about to find out. Oh God, we're in the air again. This is not good. (tense violin music) Hey, smart people, Joe here. Let me know if this thought when you're sittin there on an airplane. Okay, what if the flight attendant suddenly got in the &quot;Does anybody know how What would you do? Well, I think about this all the time. And I think that I would and say, &quot;Yes.&quot; Because there's a certain that I love, it's pilots landing planes, all those shots from inside the cockpit, I love this stuff. I cannot get enough of it. And you know what? It makes me feel like, I could actually do this, I've watched enough of it. So today we're gonna put that to the test by going to an actual flight simulator, and see if I really know what I'm doing. Hey, so Future Joe here, that was me a couple weeks ago. Probably a little more confident than I should have been. I know I'm not the only one who's ever sat in their seat on a flight, and wondered this exact thing, right? And especially, if like me, you played a lot of flight simulator games when you were younger, and you love YouTube videos - We're coming up. You can start watching your (indistinct), - [Radio] Okay 187, lowering at 5,000, crossing. - Seriously, they're just so calming to watch, it's like how I meditate. But I am not a pilot. And I think most of you especially if you are a pilot are probably wondering, how could this guy possibly think he can actually land a passenger jet? Well, I did this because how we judge what we think we know, or what we think we're good at, versus what we actually know. So recently, some psychologists actually When people watched a video of a pilot landing a plane, they were more likely could land a plane without dying, even though none of them had any actual flying experience, which is just nuts, obviously. I mean, flying a plane takes This is just one example from a huge body of research about a famous psychological phenomenon called the &quot;Dunning-Kruger Effect&quot;. - The &quot;Dunning-Kruger Effect&quot; is actually an entire family of effects, but the one that everybody knows is that people who aren't knowledgeable, aren't expert, don't know the depths of If you're making wrong decisions, you don't know you're My name is David Dunning, I'm a Professor of Psychology - In 1999, he and Justin Kruger published this paper. They found that people who are incompetent at something overestimate their abilities and the &quot;Dunning-Kruger Effect&quot; was born. It's gotta be pretty weird to have something named after you that's all about how people make mistakes or how ignorant they are. - We didn't name it, the internet named it. And I think our attitude is, we are impressed with the fact that our name is... Our good family name is with ignorance, incompetence, nincompoop-ery. - Now, based on the countless landing planes in or watching cockpit YouTube videos, I certainly wouldn't claim to know as much as an actual pilot. I mean, flying a huge jet is an incredibly specialized skill, but I feel pretty confident that I know a lot more but is that enough for me to bring a plane safely down to the ground with an expert pilot Well, that is what we're Hans. - Hey Joe, nice to meet you. - I guess I'm gonna try Fingers crossed, that's Hans is a pilot with thousands of hours of flying experience, for a major airline. Now, if this were to air traffic control would like Hans, who knows that particular aircraft to direct a passenger what to do. I'll be sitting in this simulator, a 100% accurate replica of a Boeing 737NG airliner cockpit. Hans will only be able via radio, and he'll only be able to see what air traffic control would see, my altitude, where I'm He won't be able to see or what the plane's doing, so this is really up to me. - So today we're gonna assimilate a flight from Chicago to Boston, in a 737 800NG. It's a very common airplane, it has fully automated capability landing on the runway. The younger generation, they're very familiar and so forth. You should be able to punch the buttons and program the airplane so it completely brings you down all the way down to the runway. - And then, maybe we'll give me a shot at trying to do it. - Yeah, absolutely though, because with the automation, and I can follow you on the radar screens to see where the airplane is going, and then we'll just have to talk you, try to make you land the - Wow, okay, there's so much in front Hello, I'm a passenger on a flight to Boston, without pilots. I need help. - That's not a good situation. - [Joe] So there have been successfully landed a small plane, after a pilot became incapacitated, but a passenger would likely never have to actually fly a modern airline jet. Not only do modern airliners in the cockpit for this very reason, today's aircraft are highly automated and many can fly and even land themselves, if programmed correctly. If this scenario happened this is what someone would direct a passenger to do. - Now comes the hard part. All right Joe, we're gonna program the keypad on your right knee - The screen near my knee controls the flight management computer, Hans is guiding me to give the plane the right information to land itself. By entering a series of and information about where we wanna land, this computer can control the autopilot all the way down to the ground. If I do all the steps correctly. and remember to put the the plane should basically land itself. There's so much happening. And I don't even feel I'm just like reading... The flying part, I don't even know how As we approach the runway, the list of things I need - The speed rate and move - I've seen those when you fly, they come up on the wing. That's cool. Even though things are generally on auto, it's not easy. This is the heck of a turn. Whew! Approaching the intercept. That sounded right, I don't know. I've heard people say stuff like that. - I'm gonna let you put the gear on. - That's good. Gear's good. - [Hans] You should be able to see Boston. - Do you see the runway yet? Even though I can barely see the runway, the plane knows where to go. I can't believe that this this is crazy. - [Cockpit Speaker] Approaching minimums. 100. - We're gonna (indistinct) here in like, 50. - [Cockpit Speaker] 50, 40, 30, 20, 10. (suspenseful music) (Joe exhales) - Cut off. (alarm sounding) That was so much, I can't imagine actually flying. (Joe exhales) My brain is exhausted from having to do so many things. And I don't feel like I really actually even flew the plane, it was just punching And I'm already overloaded, that actually having to fly the plane, I don't know how I'm There's so many other like flying the plane? That's too much. So we're gonna try this again, and this time I'm actually This is not gonna go well. Okay, so I successfully got I feel pretty good, what could go wrong? I think I have manual - [Hans] Slowly push the so the flight director goes slightly below the horizon. - This is so hard. I'm having trouble keeping the plane at an altitude. I'm getting very low, actually, I need to pull up to 3000. I can barely make out the - [Hans] Okay, that will be the runway you will be landing on, Joe, so we're all counting on you. - (chuckles) Okay. I can't keep this thing A little bit more, a little bit more. I don't feel like I'm - You wanna have the red - Yeah, definitely coming in low. - [Hans] We're gonna turn - Okay, I have control of the throttle. - [Cockpit Speaker] 300. Oh boy. Pull up. - [Cockpit Speaker] Approaching minimums. 100. - Uh-oh, (laughing) this is the runway! I'm gonna hit these lights. Okay, we're coming in over Trying to power back - [Cockpit Speaker] 20, 10. - Oh no! (Joe exclaiming) I'm like shaking. (chuckling) I don't think that really would've worked. Yeah, so, I was able to bring but- - [Hans] Oh well, but - I crushed the gear? (both laughing) - In real life this means the plane would've slid down the runway likely starting a major fire. So technically, I crashed. Luckily I'm gonna get one more chance, only without the autopilot So it turns out flying is harder than I thought, than just watching a few YouTube videos. When you actually have to fly the plane and put it on the ground, I didn't do it, is what Having a little bit of knowledge and seeing what pilots do in the cockpit from watching all these videos, it was this weird feeling of knowing I should be doing something, but not knowing what I And then all of a sudden there's the runway, and it's too late, and you break the landing of It didn't go well, that's what I'm saying. So in some cases, having a little bit of experience may actually lead to more Dunning-Kruger over confidence, than According to data, pilots with a couple hundred they tend to have the not pilots who are just starting out. It's known in aviation I feel like I've been there. - If you asked me, &quot;Okay, who's the most vulnerable to the &quot;Dunning-Kruger Effect&quot;? I would say is that to the &quot;Dunning-Kruger Effect&quot;. And sooner or later you will have your time, in the &quot;Dunning-Kruger Effect&quot;. Though it's likely the I think hitting the limit is a day to day experience. - What Dunning and lots of is we are not always very good at judging our knowledge. And we overestimate what we know, a lot. There's countless studies and the &quot;Dunning-Kruger Effect&quot; shows up just about everywhere we look. In one famous example, when given a quiz more than 90% of people with completely made up concepts when presented alongside real ones. There are many reasons people may claim to know more than they really do. I mean, we want to fit in socially or that we unconsciously as above average, in everything from In one study, 93% of Americans said they were safer and more skillful behind the wheel than the median driver, which is mathematically impossible. But the &quot;Dunning-Kruger of overconfidence, because it's rooted in a paradox. You aren't able to know so when you mess up, you might - The knowledge you need to come to the right decision, is exactly the same to decide whether the right And if you lack the first, you lack the knowledge you need for the second assessment. In fact, the French once said a true education but learning to separate what you know from what you don't know. - Now, we're gonna up a nice cloudy day coming It's down there somewhere. This is not gonna go well. Auto throttle and Oh God, oh boy. If I breathe wrong, I'm off course here. Okay, I'm getting low. (Joe singing to himself) Just trying to stay right in here. Let's keep your hands on - [Cockpit Speaker] Glide slope. - I hear ya. Glide slope - [Cockpit Speaker] Glide slope. - Ah! Ah! Ah! (Joe yelling) - Oh God, we're in the air again. This is not good. Wait, am I alive? The simulator doesn't show it, but that was a crash, too. My score when actually flying, is 0 for 2. That was not great. I apologize to the 150 or so people who paid for tickets on this flight. So that didn't go very well, the last time I crashed. That was just so much harder than I figured it would be, even understanding how And then I could tell that I didn't know how to do. - So that's what we call in aviation, Joe, the chain of events. We're increasing the making sure that you and the yoke, and averting attention put you in what we call - What we find with the is that people are unable to know what they don't know and that's needs to be between what experts are versus what normal people. What does it mean to be an expert pilot? - To be an expert pilot is that we have had the training, so we know what to anticipate, what's gonna happen. - I knew that there was a problem, but I didn't know what to - As a novice, you just So every situation, every second is something what the outcome is. - And of course, being able to fly is an important prerequisite to getting to be a pilot, also, which I obviously don't know how to do. - But- - You have prospect, there's room for improvement. - All right, so if you're saying if this whole YouTube (Hans laughing) - There's a place for you at the airlines. (both chuckling) - What I've learned and is the &quot;Dunning-Kruger Effect&quot; is not just stupid people think they're smarter than they really are. What it really says is that every one of us is ignorant about many things, economic theory, car repair, football strategy. That lack of knowledge when we're making mistakes. You don't know the things you don't know, so when you mess up, you And it's not just something we're all at risk of You're probably thinking what I'm thinking by this point, &quot;But the internet.&quot; Has all of this made the worse today? Well, this failure of self knowledge has probably always been with us, it's just part of the human condition. But the internet has made for two reasons, we just interact with more stuff. So you're gonna run into more things you don't know very much about. And the internet is designed to beg you to talk about it. The second reason, the to learn a tiny bit about something and enter that very overconfidence zone, where you know just a little So how do you avoid it? - One thing to do is to that they're gonna be perfectly but two heads are Three are slightly better than two, so what a decision is an important one, you do want to check your math, you do want to check your reasoning with another person. If we try to go it along, that's when we get into trouble. - This is why pilots rely on those huge checklists and manuals. So they don't rely just in order to not make mistakes. And this is why science works, science outsources that whole process of checking for errors, That's what peer review means. Science doesn't go out and confirm ideas, it tries to disprove them, and whatever survives is a little bit closer to the truth. Confidence has benefits, it can be the boost that we need to help us take on life's challenges. But overconfidence can definitely also be a bad thing. What we know is finite, what we don't know is infinite, and that border between what we know and what we don't know, we meet it more often than we think , even in everyday life. And that's actually something we should all get more comfortable with because if we knew everything, life would be boring. Not knowing things gives to be a different person, a better person, tomorrow, Knowing how much we don't know gives life a purpose. Stay curious, and please secure your tray tables to their upright and locked position, we're approaching the end of this video. Wait, land a plane with no experience? Surely you can't be serious! I am serious, and don't call me surely, and surely we can't end this video without thanking everyone on Patreon, you guys help make videos If you'd like to see more of me trying to land that plane or not, we have an uncut version. It's up on the Patreon page now, it's pretty funny, I think you're gonna like it. And you can find out more about how you can support the show, help us make more videos like this one, and a whole lot of others Just click the link and we'll see you in the next video, safely on the ground, not trying to fly a plane. What was I even thinking? Why did I think I could do that? That was bonkers. Well, you'll be happy to know that if this ever did happen in real life, it turns out there's a little that if you punch in all the right numbers and radio frequencies, the plane will completely land itself and come to a complete stop. - Interesting, don't tell Elon Musk.