It's an airplane mode right Just to show that it's device, just doing all the And you can see it created Qualcomm's tech is inside It pioneered the ability to 80s all the way to the 5G licensing fees for every using its patented core And now it's working on an generative AI. Qualcomm is an inventor. They're an intellectual Qualcomm also long held the fabless chip company by But with the hype of has now soared past global leader in fabless And Nvidia's stock shot it a $1 trillion company. The king has been For now, powerful GPUs like large language models to tapping into a huge amount But at Qualcomm, CEO big bet that one day high demand off the cloud, Running massive amount of center for every word that I think we have a very those models locally and performance, but you And while its modems are iPhone, that's also set to Apple is about 20% of it's a pretty sizable hit. So now Qualcomm is focused It has a new partnership providers and just expanded motorcycles and new capabilities. We've taken all of these built, and then we apply it but to VR headsets, to AR automotive. CNBC went to Qualcomm's see its latest tech executives and analysts wireless ruler as Apple smartphone chip sales pushes GPU companies like pack. In 1985, seven colleagues Linkabit met in the home of where they thought up the quality communications. Jacobs would remain at the Irwin is like a legend. It was his vision that In 1989, it made a bold move telecommunications placing the first phone Multiple Access. With CDMA, information simultaneously channel. It became the today. It was trying to solve that get enough capacity so have a cell phone. Nobody believed them. Nobody Not only did they make CDMA and made the rest of mobile For a short time, Qualcomm releasing the first in 1998. Its first mobile phones came out in product Qualcomm is best Snapdragon processors help PCs, tablets, cars and Multiple billions of form factor. And that device. That's where a lot done. That includes the communication with the Chris Patrick heads up business. He's been with At the end, in the heart of that you use every day, Qualcomm's at the center of And it's not just Qualcomm our devices. It also makes core technology concepts communicate. Today, patents. I have a number of patents is that was the idea of long-term R&amp;D, really kind of the future and how then this practical products. One of the things that tends Qualcomm is it's not only a company that licenses its And that creates revenue Apple, from other OEMs that their chipsets aren't being device. And it's probably controversial parts of the In 2017, it faced two major Federal Trade Commission practices due to its wireless chips. In 2020, prevailed. The other which sued Qualcomm for charging royalties for Qualcomm had nothing to do Months later, Qualcomm sued infringement. Two years an end to all legal action Also in 2017, Qualcomm takeover attempt from Broadcom. The deal was Donald Trump, citing There was a period of time it was just like one thing It was just like And effectively on all the on everything. Like it was Still, such a big focus on the curtain has created a awareness. The fact that people don't what is the hindrance. You don't know when you buy it's powered by Qualcomm. You don't know when you buy it's powered by Qualcomm, friction in terms of valued at often a much peers like Nvidia, Apple silicon. But today, Qualcomm says smaller portion of revenue business is growing. And here, at a lab in San Diego behind-the-scenes look. Before we actually start any together on one what's So it actually takes three Each of these is massive, down to what's ultimately looks like this. Like all fabless chip sends its carefully crafted manufactured at fabrication plants, also largely in Asia. TSMC in Taiwan and Samsung we're always the number one all of those foundries, But mounting tensions with Taiwan have raised concerns chip designers rely on chip That's why Taiwan Intel and others are now in the U.S. - to reshore incentives from the $52 some of those plans have Will you make any Qualcomm coming, the TSMC plant in Absolutely. We are already, already committed to around capacity it's going to be And we're the largest current manufacturing Once Qualcomm gets its chips they're manufactured, it devices to mimic the eventually end up. To make sure that the final exactly as we have intended that we then hand off to When it comes to these core inside smartphones, couple of competitors. We have MediaTek based out competitor. We have the overall Samsung broadly, we think of Apple Apple has indeed made its for its iPhones and iPads But inside every iPhone is And that's the part that network. We call it a modem makes a mobile phone truly And those are those are Today, there's really only them at scale, and that's Tsinghua Unisoc in China. When its two year legal a close in 2019, Apple business in a move to modem. Apple's made it very clear Qualcomm entirely and go to Unclear if they can pull able to do it. It's very else Apple silicon has We have a relationship with launching in '23 as well. But we have no plans for direction in '24. We don't have visibility the iPhone in '24 or not. Qualcomm has been open with supply Apple with chips for forever. Apple is actually a smaller business. Really over the very broadly. So even our revenue, most of of Apple, but really is partners like Samsung and There is no doubt that Qualcomm would like to see provide technology to Having said that, this was company became so diversification efforts, never became overly including Apple, which very successful entree into And Apple isn't the only one silicon. Chinese smartphone Qualcomm's 4G chips in all But it'll soon switch to chips because of export companies providing Meanwhile, smartphones as a industry-wide downturn. Shipments are on track to decade. We had a couple of really pandemic when everyone was upgrading. And now we've And so cyclically, there's Right, and at some point will improve. In August, Qualcomm reported revenue for Q3, and it's layoffs after letting go of It employs around 51,000 The macroeconomics, I think, A lot of companies have business and we're no our peers. With uncertainty in the has shifted much of its smart devices. Chief among So that's our brightest spot differentiation strategy. In a period of, I'd say significantly increased our We started in automotive a very small business. That's something that's design wins are indicative They do create more And the company is seeing largest automakers select part of their connected Qualcomm's digital chassis and audio, advanced driver things like face doors. It's in cars like and models from BMW, Hyundai, General Motors, The interior of our cars are like our other consumer phones and our laptops. And then on top of that, to tie a lot of those all chips together into sort of assisted driving and cockpit. The problem is the slowly relative to cell Qualcomm is also connectivity of things, reality headsets. This is our AR2 Gen1. So this chip is the center of AR glasses. We're the partner of choice We have been working with working with Google and So we believe that's going It's hard to time it, when their glasses, but we know next computing platform for Well I think their chip sets important because Apple commercial. But I do think the demand will flow down. Just like AirPods, there wearables. And Qualcomm is also trying competitive world of PCs, taking on server In 2021, Qualcomm bought billion. Although Arm sued only licensed its its new owner. Still, processors will be in PCs I'm kind of tempted to something that just, it's crack. But I think with AI becomes a feature that their laptops, then really good solution. And a lifetime opportunity for PC market. Qualcomm's newest new focus on enabling even when they're in We talk often about this You're going to run things sometimes the device has from you, or you can give But at the end of the day, combining the cloud with With Nvidia's incredible came out in November, the surprise, but Amon says longer. We had the foresight to see significant about ten years So over a decade, we've for you to be able to run everything else you run on In May, Microsoft announced that will run on Qualcomm's And in July, Meta announced Llama2, will run on PCs in 2024. The company's biggest what are those AI tied to augmented reality, intelligent vehicles, generation gaming, whether tools and apps. Its ability devices that can handle and workloads, and of course So far though, large server farms filled with their huge computational For now, the business of Is Qualcomm going to be able one of its licensees and having these advanced AI I think that particular determinant in just how in AI. But even with uncertainty cases for Qualcomm's tech, long-term outlook remains More and more things are We're going to connect more Internet. It's going to happen. Cars will be the that, but it will be power tools and coke cans. All those things will Qualcomm can participate in The numbers need to catch up Longer-term though, it's company that provides the about every handset and every day.