Huang Xijie, the master of Erlang Fist, Zhou Long, the master of Vajra Fist, Ke Zirong, the Qiqing Sect, Han Yuxia, the Invincible Sect, and Wen Zuiwen, the layman of Qianbei, Hou Liang, the great sage of the Monkey Fist. Stop and take off the mask. The master has an illness on his face. Show your true face and don't walk. Go, go. What do you mean? Master, the conference is important. Forget it. In the third match of Yanqing Fist, Master Ouyang won. Which hero will challenge Yanqing Quan? Let me come. I will come. Master Cheng Ling of Hu Qian. Come and ask me who this is. I don't know if I should be the one to fight against the Yan Qing Sect. Before I finished speaking, I heard someone drinking Yan Qing Fist. Don't try to show off your strength. A certain hero here is flying onto the ring to ask who this person is. He It's none other than the leader of Xiantian Fist, Mr. Guo Yutang, Senior Guo. Why has there been a substitution? Then what should I do next? Should I lose or win? How much money did this kid spend to fight? Or should I not come up? This kid is interesting. The fight was quick and decisive. Master Youhai and Ouyang Gongzheng, the leader of Yanqingquan, were really matched against each other. They saw that Yanqingquan was like a tiger out of the forest, like a dragon in the water. This fierce battle was just a matter of time. It's so dark that there is no light from the sun or the moon. That's wrong. This stage is not Xiantianquan at all. Big guy, don't listen to his nonsense. Come on, tell him to come down. Come down, come down, come down. This Cheng Linghu is really talented and learned. Then let him come. Yes, Marshal, in this battle, Master Cheng of the Hua Fist Sect will win. What else are you talking about? Come on, come down quickly. Come on, no matter who you are fighting, you don't know what to say. That's right, everyone, everyone, please be safe. Be restless, don't be restless. The right way is to find Cheng Yaojin on the way. Today, Cheng Linghu is coming on the way. Mr. Cheng was lucky enough to win a game, but don't forget that there is a capable person behind a capable person. The next one has his own strong opponent. He may not be able to win the next one. Who is coming? Master Cheng is good at Kungfu. Master Hai, it seems that this Chinese boxing sect can win several games in a row. What do you think? Yes, sir. It's this hero. I'm really sorry. I spent two thousand taels of silver . Logically speaking, it has to last me through a stick of incense. Don't worry. I'm really sorry. I spent four thousand taels to buy my win. Master Cheng. The old smoker first took two puffs to refresh himself. There was a lot of fine charcoal hidden in his pipe. As he puffed and puffed, the iron pipe gradually became red. Others were not allowed to get close. There was something wrong with this old smoker's smoke. We must not follow his path when we are addicted to drugs. Brother, you are thirsty. Please drink some. As the saying goes, there are mountains beyond the mountains, and there are people outside the mountains. Although the Hua Fist Sect is very powerful, it is still difficult to defeat the elusive smoke of the haze. Gun! Judges, if you want to put money on it, put it on Guan Tiesheng. I dare to use my head to guarantee that the winner will be determined within ten rounds. Okay, okay, talk about it. Come on, tell me. What is going on in this battle? , Hua Quanmen wins, Hua Quanmen wins, Hua Quanmen wins, beat him down, beat him down, you beat him, give it to me, come down and get the money back, you liar, hurry up, block them, block them, hurry up, don't fight, don't fight. Don't quarrel. Second sister, thank you for coming up with this idea. Otherwise, I really don't know how to deal with this old smoker. Congratulations, Brother Hu. The Silver Dragon Cup is no longer a problem. The Golden Dragon Cup is only in my pocket. It's only one step away from the Jade Dragon Cup. It's far away, don't worry, I will definitely make it to the finals. A small sect like Hua Quan Sect has such a master. It seems like there are hidden dragons and crouching tigers in this world. I want to see if he can make it to the end tomorrow. Master, I wish you today. A good start. Thank you for being able to compete with you on the same stage. Our grandmaster's face is shining. It's a great prize. Can the manager of the competition give you some advice ? Yes, I heard that this guy was very ruthless. Yesterday, someone's ribs were broken. Don't worry, I'm really relieved. We have already made arrangements. Mr. Hai said that when things are done, you will benefit from it. It's cheap for this kid. To be honest, I'm really looking forward to a real fight and letting this kid taste the power of my Ke family's Qiqing sect. Brother, be restless and don't be impatient. He's on the list. Name: I think he will definitely not show up. It's just a matter of time. Now we just need to set up the ring and wait for the old poisonous insect to appear. Uncle Cheng, please give me some face and give me a few moves. Don't always dodge. Brother, he is also the leader of Taiyuan. Fu Tong Huai Dao is good at using the Meteor Double Hammer, nicknamed Meteor Chasing the Moon. His pair of hammers are virtual and real, fast and slow. But I firmly believe that he is no match for our leader, Senior Brother Ji. I bet that we will wait until I finish eating this apricot. The leader has won. Well, your surname is Cheng. I will give you face. You treat me like a three-year-old child and play with me. Fighting with you is really amazing. The Hua Fist Sect has become famous in one fell swoop and defeated all the heroes. There are many heroes. We won't just talk about the hero Cheng. Master Cheng, Master Cheng, is three years old and is learning martial arts. Zhang Guo is always five years old. He follows Taishang Laojun and gives me a bet. Master Cheng, all bets are bets. All bets are bets. The master will definitely win the Wutai Mountain Wu Lang Ba Gua stick. Li Tingbao will lead the tutorial. Cheng Linghu, the apprentice of the sect leader Cheng Lingsu, also asked Miss Cheng, how long can he last this time? I'm afraid it will be longer than the last one. The sect leader must win. This person is a difficult one for the Qiqing sect. Ke Zirong, the leader of Cheng, is more comfortable with this weapon. This person has a good eye for a while. After yesterday's arrangement, Cheng Linghu lost to Ke Zirong. Xiao Xiao deliberately arranged this match at the end so that even if he wins, it won't look too fake . I'll hit you with a flying knife on your left shoulder, cut your right leg with a bone-penetrating needle, and stab you in the eye. It's hard to say how good this master's skills are with his hands. But his verbal skills are not weak. He does this just to disturb his opponent's mind. Master, be careful here. But I am going to get rich. Master Hongfu, I will hit you with a good bluestone. I will hit you with a big hard-shell stone. I will hit you with seven inches of this. How did this happen? How did he win again? How could this happen? Your surname is Cheng. Your surname is Cheng. You are unfaithful, you are not moral, haven't you already said what happened ? After I hit the dart back, as long as he dodges the next move, I should be hit by the dart. In order to catch his dart, I even threw my shield. What kind of people are you looking for who are so unbelievable? This is the end of the deal between the two of us. Master Cheng has shown his power and won three consecutive victories in Aoli to win the honor and pass on the reputation. The commander-in-chief of Tianshan Sect is indeed a famous teacher. The disciples of the Tianshan Sect who are high disciples are really extraordinary. Tell me, what are you going to do? You see so many ambushes, it seems to be a Hongmen Banquet. Everyone, be prepared. Commander, do you think you are a humble person? Do you want to explain to them why you are panicking? Since you have discovered it, just don't do it. Master Hai told people to guard the door and not allow him to come out. He is the leader of Cheng. Indeed, he is worthy of his reputation. A poor nun feels ashamed to be inferior to the master. This is not a small incompetence. It is the Hua Fist Sect that is so powerful. Look at it, even the Tianshan Sect has lost. Don't you believe it? Is n't there anyone here who can beat the Hua Quanmen? I'm here, Master Shi. Today is our chance to make a name for ourselves. Master Tian, I'm here to pay my respects. Master Tian, you're finally here. I'm waiting impatiently. I'm reporting to you, Sir, that Tianlong Sect has some trivial matters that need to be dealt with. I'm late. Please forgive me for coming. This conference of leaders in the world is really compromised without you. Tianlong Sect is really compromised. These people are reporting to you, sir. This person is my friend in the world. A master of poison, the master of the Yaowang Sect , the poisonous master of the Yaowang Sect, Shi Wan'an, the one who comes to the Tianlong Sect is not good at this time. The old poison behind him seems to be even harder to deal with. What I'm waiting for is him. Isn't the head of the Yaowang Sect Master Wu'an ? There has been a substitution, but the two people behind him are indeed the disciples of Master Wu'an. Do you really believe that he is from the Yaowang Sect? I have suffered from his loss and turned into ashes. I recognize him. He has long been expelled from the Yaowang Sect. The master's coming out now is nothing more than selling dog meat on a sheep's head. He chews his tongue behind his back and will get aphthous sores. Your Excellency, your surname is your honorable name. We are dear to you. Senior Qiqingmen Ke Zirong Shi, please come and be fine. It turns out to be the head of Ke. You are disrespectful and disrespectful. Why are you hiding from me? Is it so far? Senior Shi, please forgive me. Jianghu is sinister. Your Excellency claims to be the King of Poisonous Hand Medicine. You have to be on guard. Since you know that I am the King of Poisonous Hand Medicine, you should n't speak ill of people behind their backs. Do you think I can't poison you without touching you? That depends on you. Have you ever overestimated your ability? Is the name Poison Hand Medicine King for nothing? The Poison Hand Medicine King is really powerful. Thank you, Mr. Tian. Let's start. It 's Mr. Cheng who has won several games in a row without a defeat. In this game, Mr. Tian can't win the Jade Dragon Cup. If Head Tian cannot win this round of the Hua Fist Sect, then this Jade Dragon Cup belongs to you. You are laughing at me. Tian came to the Head Conference this time because of this Jade Dragon Cup. Then it depends on how good Head Tian's Kung Fu is, Master. Is it her good to have a master to help out? If Master Tian can't defeat Master Tian in this round, won't he win? It's okay. Tianlongmen really deserves its reputation. Huaquanmen, who has passed five levels and killed six generals, can't even go a few rounds in front of you. This jade dragon cup is worthy of being the leader of Tian. Thank you, Sir. Tian is worthy of bringing people to protect the commander. Who dares to be so bold and dare to poison here? Master Hai, do you even need to ask? Poison Hand Medicine King, here, who do you think poisoned you? Nonsense. I am friends with Master Tian. How can I poison him? You are clearly the one who did it . Lord Hai, this girl can also poison Master Shi. Just now, Master Shi said that he was called the Poison Hand Medicine King for nothing. Why did he forget all about it now? Don't miss this opportunity. Don't let that little girl get away this time. Brother, let Mr. Kaifu let them fight first. We will both suffer losses and we can save some energy. Be careful, poisonous girl. I have already mastered the magical power of poisonous poison. You should still be obedient. Surrender. Today, since you dare to call yourself the head of the Medicine King Sect, I will expose your mask in public. Stop talking nonsense and surrender. If you don't surrender, I will make your life worse than death. Miss Cheng, be careful. This is the master of Qixin Begonia 's method of restraining the green silkworm poisonous poison. The eldest brother turns out to be your second sister. The eldest brother's knife is poisonous. As expected, I asked you to do it when you were in Miaojiazhuang. There must be remnants of the Red Flower Society here. I'd rather kill them by mistake than arrest them by mistake. Take them all down to me. Get the Firearms Camp. Hurry and be careful with Tian Zhang. Marshal Menben ordered you to bring him to justice on the spot. Obey my second sister, what are you doing? Are you trying to protect him? The poison on the blade is the poison of the poisonous hero Xianni Miao. You and Shi Wanai have been colluding for a long time. It was you who killed my parents and the scapegoat Miao Renfeng. But now that father and son can die at the same time under the same poison, it really means that father and son share the same fate.