Tokyo's central business district. A temple to the Japanese work ethic. A stone's throw away is a staircase Many working professionals in the city climb these stairs at least once in their working life. To the Japanese, they symbolise climbing But even getting to the work gods Worshippers here primarily pray From new jobs and promotions... to booming business ventures. The number of salarymen to beseech the business gods is a glimpse into just how obsessed Japan's workforce puts in Clocking in close to 1,700 working hours compared to 1,500 in the UK But ironically, Japan is among the I'm Yumi Araki. I left Japan as a teenager and now I'm back as a journalist as it enters a new era. In this episode, I want to understand As the country grapples and ever greater economic pressures... I explore if still has a place in the hearts Enduring rush hour in Tokyo of how committed But the dedication to work also manifests in other, From the efficiency of our trains... to how our restaurants are run, down the tiniest details Everyday mundane objects Even fruit. And if anything embodies it is this melon. Wow. Priced at 32,400 yen, which is about US$330 to US$350. Some have even been auctioned These incredibly expensive melons are considered the pinnacle of perfection But what makes a perfect melon? I'm heading 180 kilometres to Shizuoka prefecture to find out. Master farmer Yuko Yagi grows the most revered of the crown melon. Venerated for its taste... and its aesthetics. 42-year-old Yagi-san She learned how to grow melons who passed away three years ago. To understand the hard work that goes into producing I'm joining Yagi-san Here, timing is everything. After 50 days of precision watering, the plants begin to flower. But the hard work of raising them Yagi-san sees the melons all individually beautiful. To me, they all look And just like many an over-doting mother, there is no end to her nit-picking. Yagi-san's eye for detail, is quintessential It's to achieve the best. And in Yagi-san's case, One of the most important features is a melon's webbing. When you walk through the process and the amount of care and love that Yagi-san puts into the product, it's sort of hard to dispute and maybe it is, you know, worth the 200-plus dollars After 100 days of TLC, these melons are ready for harvest. But not all of them appear to live up Only one in 1,000 melons and displayed at the markets not just as food, Back in the farmhouse, I finally get to try All right. I'll try it now. Usually, when you have cantaloupe it's like, it's fine, it's just a fruit. This is like top-notch. Really sweet, really luscious. In just four years of farming, Yagi-san has won awards for her fruit In Japan, there is a word for the &lt;i&gt;Kodawari. The relentless and uncompromising In my mind, the word kodawari So, someone who can't see they're so into what they do. That's all they can see. With Yagi-san and her crown melons, it gave a new meaning to me There's a phrase when people eat something (Japanese) which means, &quot;Oh, there's so much love And I never really, in the past, have eaten anything that literally felt that way &lt;i&gt;Kodawari permeates almost everything From food, to design, On average, employees here That's six days cramped into five. But such unbending commitment to work There has been a growing that the Japanese call karoshi. Death by overwork. To understand what it is that drives over 200 employees I've signed up you could ever choose Japan's renowned work ethic into a first world economy. But by the 1990s, this economic giant The bubble popped and growth shrivelled. From a high of around 7% Three decades later, the country can't seem to get itself But the Japanese are working A quarter of full-time employees The result has been karoshi, or death from overwork. And a key driver of it are exploitative, called &quot;black companies&quot;. My director, producer and I that lets people experience first-hand what working at a black company is like. These actors are who are going to simulate scenes based on real situations although names have been changed. It may look odd, but company slogans to boost morale and bind employees At some firms, and singing songs about productivity At black companies, Super Miracle Happy! In the next scene, an actor is being trained to sell in this case, medical equipment, It seems a bit over the top, but these scenarios At black companies, training sessions like these I know this is play acting, but it is incredibly uncomfortable The lines between reality and fiction Oh, my god. What's horrible about that scenario was, like, they make a hostage -they're trying to make an example of. And so, it creates a scenario &quot;No, you can't step in, that's going to be you.&quot; It compels them even more to fall in line because when you're watching it &quot;Oh, god, I would do anything Right, exactly. That's the point, to divide and conquer. -Yes. So that they won't form solidarity That's right, that's exactly right. While specifics vary, black companies tend to hire who end up working over They only get a 10-minute break a day and they don't receive any insurance, Employees are invited to participate in these black company simulations to raise awareness Masuyama-san believes this mentality developed by the Japanese samurai in the 17th century called bushido, or &quot;the way of the warrior&quot;. With Japan's economy facing it seems work has become The relationship between employer has traditionally been for life. Since the 1950s, Japanese businesses have hired recruits trained them on the job, and kept them until retirement. All in exchange for an employee's Black companies in Japan there is now an annual ceremony to the most evil corporation Previous nominations include local firms, and even public broadcasters. At the risk of being labelled as one, In 2018, there were across a range of industries in Japan. I'm speaking who has personally experienced how overwork can severely affect Fourteen years ago, Shimizu-san was one of the 800,000 workers employed at convenience store chains across Japan. Because of punishing schedules 24-hour stores are difficult to staff. Shimizu-san tells me his company Shimizu-san's dedication to his job reminds me of a pervasive &lt;i&gt;Ganbaru or to persevere through hardship. But persevering puts the body and the brain A year into the job, But he ignored his doctor's advice For better or for worse, there is a deeply ingrained mentality that the group comes Because Shimizu-san he asked the company Shimizu-san took the company to court... and won. Shimizu-san was awarded US$15,000 in compensation for his overtime hours and for the damage A rare outcome in Japan. The relationship between employee reminds me of an abusive relationship where the victim keeps coming back A sort of lethal corporate that has subsumed in a salary person's life. I want to find out how leaders are tackling the epidemic Japan's government recognises that the country's work culture In 2018, the government passed that introduced mandatory off days and caps on excessive working hours. Yet critics point out that caps can be extended back up to 100 hours But there has been some change. To encourage some companies have introduced at the end of the day, shaming workaholics with capes, and afternoon exercise breaks I've heard of that claims to ease These salarymen have been sent here for a form of therapy called ruikatsu. Yoshida-san has a tough task ahead. According to an international survey the Japanese are among the least likely In the first film, a son is telling his dying mother that he regrets not appreciating It doesn't take long for me. In the second clip, an estranged father and daughter In the last film, a man is reading a poem his lifelong companion. Man, this guy is tough. But there is one participant Companies offering therapies like these are encouraging their employees the traditional confines It's a step towards acknowledging in a society that I notice that Owada-san, While there's been progress at recognising solutions like tear therapy may and not the cure for overwork But maybe there still is something at the end of the day. But if it takes this long to find out if their jobs I wonder how young graduates In Japan, the pressure begins early. University students preparing for the one event they believe &lt;i&gt;Shukatsu or job-hunting season. An intense, year-long process in which thousands of students seminars, and interviews, by the time they graduate. Roughly 80% of Japan's graduates Fail to get hired, and the chances of finding work The stakes and the stress are so high, that one in five students I want to understand affects the lives of young Japanese But before I join the job hunt, &lt;i&gt;Shukatsu has strict guidelines The first rule of shukatsu, suits must be black or navy blue. And the colour of a blouse Women are also advised to keep makeup Though there is one sartorial choice To wear pants or a skirt. I set aside my misgivings It's actually a pretty comfortable suit. You typically do more than Every day, essentially. So, if I have to do this every day not too bad. But the individual in me can't help it. All right, because it is not black, it is blue, navy blue, way different than black. It has one button, instead of two, so the chest area shows a bit more, maybe too risque on your first interview. But it's still a pretty conservative suit Like I could walk into an interview and they'd take me seriously. If I walked into an interview it'd be like, you know, I can't say the suit's aesthetic But maybe that's not the point. As I'm thinking about what from somebody else, in a prospective interview, it's the ideas, it's the thoughts So, if you can take that sort of, &quot;Oh, what am I going to wear?&quot; maybe it is that you can actually With my standard suit in hand, I'm ready to find out prepare for the dreaded job hunt. To prepare thousands of students or job-hunting season in Japan, there is a billion-dollar industry on everything from aptitude tests to resume writing and interview etiquette. And I'm diving into this world. I've joined a workshop how to navigate group interviews. It's a common practice to whittle down prospective candidates. Consultant Yuki Kondo on how to stand out in the crowd. The class is splitting into two teams My group, team A, are the prospective job candidates on a given topic. While team B play assessing how the students engage The stress around the table Everyone wants to get a word in. The competition is fierce With only a short window of time, the students have to make Sometimes it pays to stay silent. That was really stressful. Just observing students but the thing that she's trying not just academic smarts How flexible are you? The stress of the job hunt Just getting invited for an interview is a huge undertaking. And getting your foot in the door? It starts with the resume. I've joined Satoshi Sekiguchi, one of the students from the workshop to go over his job application. Students typically submit to increase their chances And here in Japan, In Japan, companies aren't interested getting the font and layout Resumes are more or less the same format Companies believe will reveal a candidate's and help them find Satoshi is not alone. A common concern among students is having no idea what kind of job Though lifetime employment the average Japanese worker for 10 years, or longer. To me, committing to a long-term feels like being pressured Many say a revamp in the shukatsu system The shukatsu system, in a way, feels like it requires to know exactly what they want and the stakes are really, really high. And that's why I think people You know, I have to imagine that there are many people and go work for a place &quot;Is this where I want to be? I'm curious to know when they opt out of Japan's I'm meeting 39-year-old who quit his job when he was hospitalised He's been playing the handpan These days, Kashiwa earns from performing and teaching His way of thinking is rare in Japan. Only 17% of Japan's labour force compared to 25% in South Korea and 35% in the US. Kashiwa has invited me on the busy sidewalks Unlike his old office, the work environment here is friendly, And Kashiwa can call it a day I think Kashiwa Hang is among the growing number of people who are starting to get tired of going to work. I think there's a lot more introspection and what are the possibilities For so long, working hard has been synonymous I've seen some of the best And also, some of the worst. I think Japan is at a precipice point where it's trying of how things used to be done with new paths that are being forged As the country charts the nature of work will change. And Japanese society's will also have to change tack. Captions: IYUNO Media Group