&gt;&gt;Male Presenter: Glad to see you all here A few months ago I got into the car and turn immediately captured my full attention. The guest was commenting about how we've gotten factions could no longer even understand each for the common good. He pointed out that while it maybe convenient stupid, they're not evil or stupid, they believe The guest was Jonathan Haidt who's here to He mentioned to me that he's sick of talking about that subject. Instead he's going to talk about the group organizations like Google function as well He's been a professor of psychology at the In the summer, he moved to NYU where he's systems. He's the author of &quot;The Happiness-- &gt;&gt;Jonathan Haidt: Hypothesis &gt;&gt;Male Presenter: Hypothesis&quot; and &gt;&gt;Jonathan: Righteous Mind &gt;&gt;Male Presenter: &quot;The Righteous Mind&quot; which bestseller list. By the way, the book is for sale over in the book for $10, which is heavily subsidized So grab a copy and get it autographed at the Now, fresh from an interview with Michael Haidt. [Applause] &gt;&gt; Dr. Jonathan Haidt: Thanks so much, David. So, Hive Psychology, bees. That's kind of creepy and gross. Why would I come here and give you guys a Well, as David mentioned, my last book was Truth in Ancient Wisdom&quot; and I reviewed great and evaluated them in terms of what we now And chapter 10 reviewed ideas about happiness, And how really, the deepest forms of happiness kinds of connection and embeddedness. There wasn't that much research to review, but the way I summarized it was &quot;Mystical When the self is turned off, people become hive.&quot; And I reviewed religious experiences, all an awe junkie myself. I would do almost anything to get experiences So, I really was kind of proud of this sentence. I thought, &quot;Oh great, this is one of the things But there wasn't much more to say about it. Well, I went on to then write this new book has been a little bit of research around this from helped me think through this hivishness, important facts and features of human nature. So, this is the cover of my book in the United captures what it feels like to be an American ripped, something is wrong. In the UK, they have a different cover which States. It looks like that. [laughter] Now the book is, in a sense, very simple, If you get these 3 ideas, you get moral psychology. So the three ideas are first: intuitions come what my early research was on. And if you've read Malcolm Gladwell and Blink, cognition, you're familiar with some of that The second part is on the principle that there This is about how liberals and conservatives of moral foundations. This is what every newspaper and radio station of the election year and as David said, I'm And I'd much rather talk to you about hivishness So that comes out of part 3 of the book, mortality That's where it comes from. It comes in part from this novel ability we that are not kin. That can work together towards higher goals. And one particular chapter is on hive psychology to one of the most novel and interesting companies and let's see in our discussion afterwards here at Google. So, perhaps the most over-rated or over-hyped years has been the idea that people are basically That our fundamental nature is selfish. Economists have told us that for decades. Political scientists have told us that people Evolutionists, such as Richard Dawkins told Which, they can make us cooperate with our But by and large as Dawkins said, &quot;let us we are born selfish.&quot; George Williams, one of the greatest evolutionary &quot;Morality is an accidental capability produced, process that is normally opposed to the expression So the view is, human nature is selfish. We can transcend it, we can act in ways that fundamental nature is selfish. Now, this view has been widely embraced in and it's been embraced even more strongly Here's an essay that was published in The Other Psychopaths&quot;. It reported, down at the bottom you can see &quot;2010 study found that 10% of a sample of for being labeled 'psychopaths'&quot;. I read that and I said &quot;that's nonsense, it And I was right, the guy just made up that The actual study that he was quoting said But the point is that there's a narrative is a bunch of psychopaths and that explains It's because of that narrative, that long to the 19th century that Google, of course, Which is &quot;Don't be evil&quot;, but then of course, cynics on the web who think that Google is [laughter] is other than this. Our nature is not entirely selfish. There's been a kind of a little boomlet in A lot of people reject this idea and want And there are cases like Mother Theresa, although Mother Theresa wasn't exactly like Mother But there are cases of people who devote themselves That's interesting but I think actually that's If you wanna understand what's so amazing the cases where we do extreme acts of altruism Rather, what's really remarkable about us We're just really cooperative, you guys have breakfast. It's just when you walk in the hallway, when all the time. There's a particular kind of cooperation I'll I'm calling it this to be able to make a very Because when I say, as a psychologist, that selfish, what I mean is that the human mind make us adept at promoting our own interests Of course, we're good at that. Of course, we evolved these complex minds I'm not arguing that. What I'm arguing is that's not the whole story. We are also groupish, by which I mean our that make us adept at promoting our group's I'm arguing that we focus too much, in the versus individual and not enough on the competition Which I believe has also shaped our mind. That's a side story about multi-level selection, We don't need to get into that today. But that's the background to part of what [clears throat] So, the reason I believe this, the reason that is I'm a social psychologist, but I specialize The reason I study this is because I was studying I just found there are so many ways that people down self-interest, transcend the self. The metaphor that I'll use is that it's as there's a kind of a door that sometimes opens, There's a kind of door that opens, it's as and when this door opens, it invites us to into a different realm. A realm in which we are fundamentally different. We transcend ourselves and it isn't just different, Most of us are familiar with these experiences Raise your hand if you have ever climbed a to experience some sort of an altered state please raise your hand. OK, so right, especially here in Northern the milk and that seems to happen to you. But anyway. Most of us are familiar with this kind of Ralph Waldo Emerson described it, I think, been described. Just describing what it's like to go for a And I've had some animators animate his words, and again, it's as though this staircase opens, here's what he said about it. &gt;&gt;male narrator: In the woods these plantations Standing on the bare ground, my head bathed space, all mean egotism vanishes. I become a transparent eyeball, I am nothing, The currents of the Universal Being circulate I am the lover of uncontained and immortal &gt;&gt; Dr. Jonathan Haidt: So, he had lines like nature of nature experiences. William James, one of the founders of American of Religious Experience&quot; were he cataloged that they don't just make us happy; they don't They make us feel different. That our self is fundamentally changed. People don't come back from these experiences Now I'm going to make as much money as I can Rather, they come back experiencing a moral of something larger. Many of the world's religions have developed self-transcendent experiences. Meditation is one developed especially in Many of the world's religions discovered psychedelic Substances that can, within 30 minutes, attain years of study through meditation to achieve. This is from a sixteenth century scroll showing And as soon as he eats it, this god is going world. We don't know much about the Aztec's religion But in the '60s there was a great deal of on it. A famous study by Walter Pahnke, in conjunction pills. It was a placebo controlled study. They gave the pills to divinity students in And all 10 of the students who took psilocybin niacin, they first felt a flush, you feel psyched. They said &quot;Yes, I'm one of those who got the But it was just niacin and that quickly faded So the subjects who got psilocybin experienced it &quot;feelings of connectedness with everybody So again, these many many roots of self-transcendence this is what I'm interested in. Many of the world's religions use circling, in which one gets closer to God. And if you put this all together, you put that also triggers ancient circuits, what It was discovered in the 1980s that if you you can achieve certain altered states of of hedonism. Its peace, love, unity and respect. Again, unity, it's a sense of oneness, togetherness, And here's the weirdest place of all, which War is hell of course, but many journalists, in the trenches, they find that actually war And it gives warriors experiences that they There's an extraordinary book by Glenn Gray II, and D-Day and came back and wrote a book. He wrote a book in which he interviewed many of communal effort in battle. Once again, I've had this animated, I hope it goes. &gt;&gt;male narrator: Many veterans will admit battle has been the high point of their lives. I passes insensibly into a we, my becomes I believe that it is nothing less than the at these moments so relatively easy. &quot;I may fall, but I do not die. For that which is real in me goes forward up my life&quot; &gt;&gt; Dr. Jonathan Haidt: &quot;I&quot; passes insensibly fate lose its central importance. If bees could speak, I think this is the sort So it's because of these experiences, they the world, across the eons. It's as though we were designed to be able At very least there's something in our minds This is what led me to formulate what I called It's a hypothesis, but my claim is that human a hypothesis. Human nature is 90% chimp, 10% bee. That's the metaphor. The idea is that most of our sociality is When you read books on human nature or evolution and the author will trace out kin selection, So we're able to cooperate as other animals Just like chimpanzees, but we have the ability in something larger than ourselves, like bees. My claim here is that we are like bees, in of evolution as bees did. Namely a long period of group versus group Which chimps didn't really go through, or But group selected species do. So, we're very good in situations that call This is a photo of a tomato fight in Spain, But, I would note, they had to actually all permit you know they're all having fun. So actually even this isn't every man for But, we're good at it, we can do that. But we are especially good at one for all, Alright, how does that happen? Well, let's look at sociality, let's step in the animal kingdom. Many many animals are social. Darwin wrote about this and noted that it's because they work together as a team but because out of the thousand deer. And so when the lion comes, it will be your So, deer are like this, they live in herds It's just safety in numbers, there's no team So this does not provide a good metaphor for I don't think there are any corporations that Alright, but let's move up a little bit. A lot of animals live in packs. Now packs are very different. Packs, you especially find them among carnivores prey. Four wolves working together can take down But, a wolf pack is a rough place to be, there's Well, now it's beginning to sound more familiar. So familiar in fact that many textbooks of wolves. And we train our MBA students to be effective Most MBA companies can be analogized to wolf Teamwork lets them take down larger prey. They can do things they could not do as individuals and resources. So that works, that works throughout most Raise your hand if the description I've just at Google. OK, I thought not. Of course, if you did raise your hand I'm knows what would happen to you. [laughter] But, for you, I think you would which is hives. Only a few kinds of species live in hives, evolution of life on earth. A few dozen times actually. The Hymenoptera were the main discoverers The bees, wasps and ants and they are able division of labor, and they are able to do They suppress breeding, so they're really It's one for all, all for one. There was a species of cockroach that discovered into those that we now call termites. And there's one species of mammal that did, In all five of these cases, it's the same Suppress breeding, so that you have just one to all the babies and now everybody's interest, all for one. Keep the queen alive, keep the babies alive. And so they're able to cooperate, massively than any individual. It's really quite extraordinary what they it's straight kinship. Now, once you get hive living, you can get the group functioning as a super organism. This is an image of giant Asian honey bees And what scientists have figured out is that predatory insect, there's a wasp trying to Trying to attack them, to get in, trying to So, they're able to flick their tails and basically flicks the wasp off. It's an amazing feat of coordination possible all for one. And these emergent behaviors have evolved, This yields massive efficiency; you have massive Is this an analogy or even a homology for Are there any businesses that work this way? Well, there's no business that has no competition, where there's no politics, no competition. But there are many businesses that come close. I've visited a couple times at zappos.com and my sense is that they really are. If you put Zappos into Google image search, up when I did this. And it is them forming this symbol of one love to spin around like those bees. So, some companies, I think, are like this. Now, I want to tell you about this little psychology recently. It's been discovered that synchronous movement, chance our physiology in ways that make us So, many religions use synchronous movement Scott Wiltermuth and Chip Heath at the Stanford had them basically sing a drinking song. They didn't actually give them alcohol but 'O Canada'. They wanted a song that people wouldn't have [Audience laughter] &gt;&gt; Dr. Jonathan Haidt: They had them sing the song so that they could either be singing And then they had them play various games And after moving together in synchrony, they these games that required extreme cooperation. Something that has very direct relevance to the business world. Moving together in time increases cooperation Another study found that when you take rowers, either in synchrony or not in synchrony, they exactly how much force was being applied. They actually were able to deliver the same the pain tolerance test afterwards. Those that had rowed in synchrony were able In other words, it changes the endorphin system for battle. Groups that move together in time can fight better. So we're changing some relatively low level individuals to be a part of a team in combat. Now in case you want any evidence that this companies have long used synchronous movement The Japanese corporate structure is very much so much competition within the group, but Synchrony has been used in the business world And actually, how many people have ever done corporate retreat where they had you move OK, ya it is often used, it's not studied to find out if it really works. But I suspect that it does. So, here's one dramatic example of how, again, is the All Blacks, New Zealand, one of the The All Blacks. [Sportscaster narrative] &gt;&gt; Dr. Jonathan Haidt: Watch their poor opponents [crowd cheers][rugby players chant the Haka] and there are reasons to believe that it actually So I want to make the point now that while In fact, the legal definition of a corporation, British law, is a group of people united into The word corporation literally means body. So Mitt Romney is not entirely wrong when of course, it they are people they are a certain the way of moral sentiments in and of itself. But we won't go there. Alright, so, a corporation is always a super But I want to make it clear, I'm not saying Very few are hives. There's a dimension of hivishness and even So, here are some companies just from my limited rather just teaching courses to people in I hear from the students that some companies they really feel one for all, all for one. I asked David on the way in, whether this Oh absolutely, right away from my first day if I needed help and no matter how busy he Even though there was nothing in it for him, But everyone just has this sense that you You do whatever another fellow employee needs. So like those bees, you function as an organism, So here are some companies that are known So competition even, of course Amazon bought that their corporate cultures would be very But so far it seems as though Amazon has respected So, I think that there are some obvious benefits signed on at the Business School at NYU, so this directly but there are reasons to think major, major benefits. The first is almost, by definition, higher Social capital is an important concept from It refers to the trust that is found in relationships. So if two companies have, if one company has else is equal, more money in the bank is going Similarly, if two companies are identical has more social capital, that is, people can it, you get it. There's no backstabbing or there's no turf If everything else is equal, that company They're more efficient. So hivishness by definition is going to give translate into higher productivity and flexibility. Management can make changes and assume that not fight over well, should we change. You're a team, you're like one body. When I say move to the left, my right hand me?&quot; Secondly, hivishness is going to give you It's just a lot more fun to work in a place and works as a team. So you get lower turnover. Turnover is extremely expensive for companies. And when people are fired, or when they leave sue if it's a hivish organization, were there It makes it much easier to recruit, and once them away. So hivishness has obvious benefits for companies. Now it also surely has downsides and it depends &quot;Oh, every company should become more hivish.&quot; I have no idea if that's true. But I do want to introduce these terms. I think it's helpful for people in the business So possible risks or downsides are at a certain games and charades and other things that they Billiards, what else do I see here Ping-Pong, At a certain point you spend so much time Secondly, if you have that really hivish feeling of toxic for outsiders. You could no longer care about other stake Of course, if you have more group loyalty up misdeeds, it would be harder to be a whistle And lastly you could have more group think and people are emphasizing their similarity. On the other hand, at least what I heard at of mine, Jesse Kluver who is a Marine, is there is such trust and everybody values the is it's easier to speak up because everyone really have the interest of the group at heart. So, it's an open question when hivishness will have costs. Now, some advice on what one can do if you in the corporate world, this is any organization Well, some of the basic ideas from classic a sense of shared fate, and especially a sense We're all pulling together; we're all in the That really brings out the bee in us; it really It's very important in any organization to in such an organization there's so much freedom. Anybody who wanted to could stock up on all corner if you wanted to. And anybody who did that would be violating Any organization that lets free riders do psychology in everybody else, people don't So free riders are really poisonous. It's crucial that free riders be punished But punishment doesn't have to involve spanking Gossip is the normal human form of punishment. Gossip is actually, generally speaking a good Gossip gets a bad name because in junior high rivals. So that's ugly. But, what's been found, a study by Naft and And when you have a group working together who's shirking, who's not working out hard When people really care about the mission will shame and punish those who are drifting So gossip is the front line of defense for Third, heightened similarity, anything that this feeling. So of course many companies emphasize diversity. It's important to emphasize diversity for perspectives, has many benefits for creativity. But I want to emphasize that to get trust oh, we're all so different and that's great, And when you do that race stops mattering So, just think about emphasizing similarity Fourth point, synchrony moving together to these effects. Healthy competition is good. When you divide people into groups, they tend interestingly, they don't dislike the people So, are there any intramural competitions Is there any time where you do group versus Google? Do you ever do that? I assume you don't then hate the people on It's playful, it's fun. You get to work together more closely. So this is the classic social psych finding, of out-group hate. Unless the competition gets really nasty, where we are in the US Congress. But within a healthy company that's not what Lastly, to the extent that you can say your much easier to inspire people. So at Zappos, for example, they don't talk mission is delivering happiness. They're a service company. And Google is organizing the world's information. Google is making our lives easier. Google is doing all these wonderful things. So, to the extent that one is thinking about these are some pointers for how to make it There are some specific things that leaders and charisma. A leader must be worth of respect, admiration Not necessarily but these things do help. Great leaders, such as Julius Caesar, inspired them. They looked up to them. One of the most important things about being to cede you authority and to follow you as for the good of the group. As soon as they get the sense that you're or you've got your favorites and you're out other members of team, then they'll turn against So an important part of leadership is impartiality, that you're really impartial. And then they will accept decisions from you Self-sacrifice is crucial, that leaders sacrifice I was at a, there was a positive psychology CEO got up and said to this room of 300 psychologists front line in the fight against terror.&quot; Which seems to me to be incredibly pompous to actually fight and face bullets, but anyway. So, &quot;we CEOs are on the front line of the you as to what we can do and how we can win we've just gone through the 90s when CEO pay Now the economies turned and 9/11's pushed is dropping. So, I would think if CEOs would take a massive more cooperation and help you win the fight [Audience laughs] &gt;&gt; Dr. Jonathan Haidt: He says &quot;That isn't [laughter] So anyway, shared sacrifice. And lastly eloquence, history books are full of the world turned on one person giving an others to work or fight their hardest. So to conclude, we have this story about human And certainly businesses and business people there is a little bit of truth to this, this world. And right now we're all trying to figure out industry is different from the rest of the that are of use to people. Finance does seem to be plagued by many more world. But I'd like to replace this idea of human and cooperative, we are selfish and groupish, of what we are but I think it's actually a Thank you very much. [Applause] &gt;&gt;Male Presenter: We have time for questions, and ask away. &gt;&gt;male #1: So you've made some pretty compelling and the human propensity for hivishness. And given those benefits, it seems reasonable propensity. But we all know that evolution is not a teleological &gt;&gt;Dr. Jonathan Haidt: Not at all. &gt;&gt;male #1: -and in fact you cited the fact very strange genetic patterns into their hives strategy for them to behave that way. You said at the beginning you didn't really versus group selectionism, but I just have &gt;&gt;Dr. Jonathan Haidt: Sure. &gt;&gt;male #1: -which is, do you think it's necessary human propensity for hivish behavior? &gt;&gt;Dr. Jonathan Haidt: Well yes, a great question. Is it necessary to invoke group selection? I think it's not necessary. There are some very clever explanations as level selection. That is individuals who could show off that and trusted more and therefore they would But part of the reason why I'm attracted to human nature was shaped in part by group versus weird stuff we do that's very hard to explain benefit. For example, after 9/11 there was sort of And it's kind of hard to explain that people to support the leader that they beat out the A better example I think would be the urge So what you do with it. A traitor is worse than an enemy, in many A traitor, there's only thing you have to Now, do we suppose this urge to kill traitors killed their traitorous neighbors had more didn't kill their traitorous neighbors? There's just a lot of really tribal groupish we do that makes perfect sense if you think being lodged in successful groups. It's being currently fought out, nobody has picture of human nature is more consilient selection. &gt;&gt;male #2: You mentioned searching out and of gets at what I was going to ask. What about when the hive sort of goes off about like Salem witch trials. You mentioned bullies in school, what happens A hive turns into a mob? &gt;&gt;Dr. Jonathan Haidt: Right, right. So I take an ecological view of human evolution. That is if you think about a total ecosystem these creatures in the niches. Most of those creatures are individual animals So if we think about religion, so in my book Sloan Wilson and others. That religion is an adaptation for binding That means that religion in its original tribal trust each other, develop virtues that will make them more fit, or at least wipe out or, Not a very pretty picture. And in many parts of the world, as the new sort of that way. But in the American ecosystem, things are In America, we've had a free market in religion And especially for Protestants who shift around So they all have to be good at marketing and to a church, and I'm a Jewish atheist but know far right or far left churches. I had to do it myself. You go in there and everyone is so welcoming, In the American ecosystem, nasty tribal religions But nicer ones do. So in our ecology, religion actually turns So there's a book called &quot;American Grace&quot; at whether religions have a net benefit to And they conclude that in America at least, So even though this stuff emerged in ways depending on the ecosystem, it can actually There are lots of externalities. &gt;&gt;female #1: Hi. So when Steven Pinker was here, he was talking and it's declining in human society- &gt;&gt;Dr. Jonathan Haidt: -yes- &gt;&gt;female #1: - and he brought up this idea &gt;&gt;Dr. Jonathan Haidt: -yes- &gt;&gt;female #1:- like that us has sort of expanded It used to be maybe just our family, then groups get bigger and bigger. And I'm sorry, I'm blanking on the philosopher- &gt;&gt;Dr. Jonathan Haidt: -Peter Singer- &gt;&gt;female #1: - Peter Singer. So how do you think that dovetails with your &gt;&gt;Dr. Jonathan Haidt: Yes. So, groupishness. We get more groupish when we're attacked. And after 9/11 we got a lot more groupish, be anti-Muslim violence and there wasn't, nature. But, war and intergroup conflict shrinks the peace and prosperity lets that sort fade away. Also, intergroup contact trade and travel, So I think that Pinker is absolutely right, There are many reasons for that and one of commerce. Because trade and commerce makes you not care sex. Just, do they have the goods and will they And this is why, to this day, Amsterdam is Because it was the origin of this kind of So, I think Pinker is right and as the internet more globally, it is thinning this stuff out. The other piece of the story that Pinker mentions This groupishness, this hivishness, works police forces, no courts but as you get stronger this hivishness. And the Scandinavian countries are the forefront institutions and ever decreasing groupishness. So it's possible to have a very humane society But, people need groups, people thrive in you can healthier or less healthy forms in &gt;&gt;male #3: There's been some research that in the number of other primates that we can Dunbar's Number? Do you think there's a similar limit for how &gt;&gt;Dr. Jonathan Haidt: Right, that's a good So the Dunbar Number is one hundred fifty, the basic idea is that there's a certain number But not just know personally, because you know how everybody is connected to everybody And once you get above one hundred and fifty, So that's kind of a natural break point for But one of the cool things about human social So there's this Arab proverb: &quot;Me against cousin, me and my brother and cousin against And, the US military uses this beautifully. There's competition at every level. Everybody is competing with everybody. But within the lowest level, you know they'll to compete against the next patrol and all against the Navy. And then of course in war, the whole US Military So, there is no limit to how high we can go So there will never be a human hive until and declare war on those goddamn mosquitoes. [Laughter] &gt;&gt;Male #4: I'm interested in the same topic, I just joined Google a few weeks ago and I'd And so you showed slides of people moving an aerobics class here at Google, but I didn't after I was done and I came back to my group, In me, or do I have to actually know the people &gt;&gt;Dr. Jonathan Haidt: Thank you, that is exactly credit you when I run it, that is something But my hypothesis would be, that if you simply don't see again, that would be enough to foster So it should work at that very minimal level. Secondly, if you do at least recognize the see them in some other context, or at a party, more easily. And third, if you took one division of Google people or you'll get reactance, but you encourage another one to not do it. My prediction would be that you would see measure, but for certain tasks that require see it. So that's the hypothesis, we don't know yet &gt;&gt;Male#5: Hi, thanks for coming. I sort of have two questions, about intention So both when you're looking at sort of selfish How much does it matter whether those are, groupish versus it just being the subconscious? Like, does that even come into play? &gt;&gt;Dr. Jonathan Haidt: Right. &gt;&gt;Male#6: And sort of semi-relatedly for groups Previous question about when the hive starts hives will is sort of drifting. You were talking about a leader sort of having a group. How much is sort of emergent, no one's really is really just an individual applying their &gt;&gt;Dr. Jonathan Haidt: OK, thank you. That's given us two good questions. So the first, I deliberately said 90% chimp Because we are very, very concerned with our So a lot of cooperation is for show. A lot of cooperation is because people are And if there's no monitoring and you're relying get away with anything they want, research than they even realize that they are doing. So some of it is for show and a well set up good and get credit for it. To the reputation you want, to harness reputational As for the extent to which a leader is making I think a good metaphor is gardening or maybe You can manage an ecosystem, but it's very You have to let it grow to some extent. And this to the extent that I'm very interested I am dispositionally a liberal, I think there But I've been very persuaded by conservative just come in and impose a new system tend And I think the way to think about social If you come in and say well, we're going to or marriage or anything and you put something species as it were. You get all kinds of things you didn't expect. But yet you can still influence Yellowstone and plant it from scratch. So I think a good leader is someone who is sort of tries to get organic processes growing extent. Where are we on time? Oh, it's been almost an hour; I guess we have We've got 5 more minutes. &gt;&gt; Male#7: I guess more along those lines &gt;&gt;Dr. Jonathan Haidt: Can you have a hive Yes, I think you can. Bees certainly do, there's no leader in a The queen is just the ovary, she's not the In a street gang or any group of friends, small. I think it'd be very hard to have a large [cellphone rings] And this is one difficulty I see with Occupy idealistic group, very committed to horizontality. That's where their emphasis on horizontality, So it can happen but it makes it very, very I was at a Occupy Wall Street meeting where And you know they had to do it by consensus, And it just goes on month after month because So yes, you can have a hive without a leader helps. And especially if it's a large group, yeah, &gt;&gt;Female#2: So thank you for coming here. Talking about leadership, I'm just reading mention of his reality distortion and how about his leadership and the psychology you &gt;&gt;Dr. Jonathan Haidt: So I haven't read the I do want to reiterate the point - that profitable without being a hive. And you know, apparently Jobs was not a very Does anybody know whether Apple was a hivish backstabbing, or politics? Does anyone know? Yeah? What is it? No? OK. [Audience laughter] OK Alright, so. Their trick was incredible devotion to good And that made them the most profitable, one You don't have to be a hive to be successful. You don't have to be a hive to change the But it's a lot nicer to work in a place where &gt;&gt;Female#2: Yeah, but how does a leadership Where there is a lack of trust, there is a &gt;&gt;Dr. Jonathan Haidt: mmm hmm. Yeah. &gt;&gt;Female#2: - there is a lot of favoritism. [computer beeps] Well, so I don't know much. There's a gigantic field of leadership studies one of, it's a vast field, I don't know much But the terms - oh, here it is, there we to show. [Audience chuckles] &gt;&gt;Dr. Jonathan Haidt: One of the pair of terms leadership. Transactional leadership basically says: let's will pay you more to do X. So you can have a very effective company if You're sort of leaving money on the table, to do a lot of stuff, not just for pay if and happiness from it. So it can work, and most companies, as I said So think about what you're doing and what And there are many ways to run a successful OK, I think that's 1 o'clock. Thank you all for your attention. [Applause]