PAUL FREEDMAN: But the even on an inconvenient day, We don't use terms in the like awesome very much. But the guy certainly He rescued the Roman Empire, and he rescued it from. As a preliminary, the sections If you're wait-listed for We will have enough sections for this course, right? So there are currently four. The additional ones that were Wednesday at 2:30 and And again, if you're We'll figure this out. There will be enough sections So I referred last time to A crisis of the Roman Empire Diocletian, from 235 to 284. And we mentioned several Empire that might be causes of this crisis. The size of the Empire. It's sheer, massive size. The problem the succession. That is, it was never quite this in more detail, how one The urban-rural imbalance. This was an empire And to some extent, although historians to what extent, but be said to have drained off the to the productivity of It was an empire that was, view, more cosmopolitan than another point of view, In other words, this was an was less dominant, partly co-opting other peoples. Some of the peoples that it originally inhabitants Particularly, this is visible in be staffed by so-called So called by the Romans, barbarians. Another problem is the East-West East tends to do better demographically than the West, population. We live in a world where one over-population. It is therefore not that for most of the time, trouble reproducing And indeed, we are starting to demographic decline. The infant mortality, the low women in childbirth, the some extent, military threats threats, the reality, made it produce children to And this is true up until So these are fundamental The real question is in the third century? And this is a question, as I any great empire. It's easy to point to the flaws Often size is one of them. Often bureaucracy. Often overspending But some of these go on for a success of successfully, And the Roman Empire went on The immediate problems that are invasions and succession. Invasions by, first Persia is the old enemy Indeed, as many of you know, city-states that precede the the first historian of the first week of directed studies, are nostalgic for that Persia is the enemy. Now we never study Persia. It's kind of like offstage And that's the great benefit Eastern Languages If you want to learn about instead of oh, my god, And it's oh, my god, the [correction:470] and it's going to It is going to come to an end But that's because of Islam, But in the third century, Persia Having been rather passive, it Roman Empire in the East. More Mesopotamia, present-day It's not exactly the same as Armenia, but more like The dynasty that controls aggressive than its predecessor and this appears in The Sassanid Dynasty, the rulers aggressive and more Beginning in 224, they start to the Armenian and Mesopotamian it and start to wreak havoc in of the Roman Empire. The climax of this is the by the Persians in 260. Valerian actually one of the this chaotic period, They kept him for Displayed him in chains, Anyway, he died in captivity. They did a kind of I think maybe he was flayed too gruesome, but I think As I said, I'm not a But the second invasion Danube-Rhine frontier. The Danube and the Rhine form a natural frontier with That didn't mean that they In fact, many of their great were on the eastern But they considered those as invasion across the Rhine. The Rhine and the Danube the Rhine going from modern Switzerland, and the Danube eventually Austria, Hungary, As we'll see, Charlemagne, in to build a canal between And there are actually traces of unsuccessful project. And there now is a canal So this is sort of the frontier and this is the line above which [correction: wine grapes no olive oil is pressed. And it's got to be protected, So we have pressure on the third century, and another the Goths in 251, Decius. And Valerian dies in 260. So the Emperors are certainly actually has to do with they're military guys. And that is part The major problem besides the It depends on how you count-- is someone a real Emperor, or there are at least 30 Emperors Many of them ruling of them being killed. They're assassinated by the their own troops. They're killed in battle against Decius and Valerian. They're killed in battle against to be Emperors. But the most common thing is own troops. How had Roman Emperors There were several ways. One is what you would expect, But that's not all Dynastic, in other words, And the family is recognized therefore it goes from father to father to person daughter something like that. But that was not actually Sometimes the next Emperor was This is characteristic of the the so-called good Emperors. In theory, this is You have no family prejudice. You simply, as a good Emperor, like he's going to be So that is another Another possibility is some guy troops to take over. And that's what we see We see not only the but the interference of the army raising new Emperors. The army was able to make Just as in some countries with the military is able to make What is interesting about the able to do it far from Rome. Some of these armies are Some of them are fighting the Persians. Rome is becoming less and less of the Empire. And I mentioned that now, the result of this is will be capital, a second capital in called Constantinople, Rome is fortified for There is a wall that you can Rome, built by the Emperor And this is a significant thing, centuries, Rome had not been threatened. And fortification in 271 starts come, or at least things that Namely, barbarian invasions, Rome begins at this time. Rome in the third century is that, by a succession Not members of an upper class from the provinces. Men who are not particularly trouble recognizing a tag from internet just to look They hold the traditional The Senate of Rome is the The Roman Senate is a collection wealthy people, from good and very, very fine education. The people leading in the third raised by their troops. One of the reasons that the generals, and then killed them, get a kind of reward from a thing called a donative. A donative is money there's a new Emperor. A bad idea from the point of it encourages double-dipping, OK, now we've gotten our money and get money from I don't think that's too cynical some of what is going on. Now of all the crises of the that leaves the most There's absolutely no doubt that different Emperors, and government is unstable. The question is how much does of ordinary people? One measure of the effectiveness civilization is that is don't comment very much on In a way, we are testing For many people, the fact that doesn't really matter, in terms How long can that go on? That's partly because all sorts functioning perfectly fine. Here we are. We are meeting. There's no problem of the supply scarce provisioning, or we have to sort of protect It hasn't come to that. Yet. But if you look at the lives third century, they are not can't take it anymore. The philosopher Plotinus, for intellectual figures Now it's true, he has a very about things. He is a follower of Plato, he's neo-Platonist philosopher, century, travels a bit. But we never hear of any problems raised by these The one that might have affected instability is inflation. Roman coinage was silver and these metals to gold. The ultimate standard of value silver had attributed values The need to reward the army with dislocations of the invasions expenditures. And this was a society that did There are no bonds. There are no ways of the revenues and borrowing That is actually an invention This is an example of something didn't have that Medieval cities debt financing. I don't have to tell And it's a great advantage, Great advantage, because it to do things now. So how does a government deal can't borrow money? It does what is called To debase, that is degrade, just don't put in as much silver gold, and try to get for its value anyway. So up until the 1970s, the gold, and dollar bills were They said that you could hand worth of silver. It was, technically speaking, It was merely a representative you could trade in. And before that, of course, Dollars were both silver and being, in some sense, It is in the nature of modern some point, the government forget about it. And even long before the government didn't have enough them in, just as it doesn't have to float the entire It has a lot. And that's important that there value, or bullion, or bottom But the fact that it's intrinsically a problem. But here, so let's say the form of taxes and stuff, And it issues two thousand The coins say they're worth a terms of precious metal So it pays its expenses It pays the army. It gets people to accept But when most people go to buy that the stuff is 50% more are not actually very good. The governments tend to do this people don't notice in the first inflation is say, 10%, But once having embarked on the this tends to get out of control Gresham's law-- an 18th that bad money drives If I have good sestertia, or measure of silver that they say and I've got other coins that have half, I'm going to try to hoard the good ones. And only spend the good ones demand a premium on them. So therefore, there are all like mad, and the good ones they don't really have their store boxes, or under more and more inflation. So you have a fierce Prices go up. People don't know the They start bartering. And the Roman economy is very, hyperinflation tends to. And a final problem is the partly because of this economic from deeper causes. The importance of this is last time, and that is that the together, really, by the government was. It required the cooperation of their native city. It was these people who improvements, maintained the local order. The third century crisis This elite is undermined by the They are, to some extent, increased taxation. They're just powerful enough powerful enough to But they also tend to be more cosmopolitan, where local Where, for example, military are more important. And I emphasize this, not only themselves and their role in but we're going to talk about Christianity. Because when the local ruined, so is local religion. And local religion If I am of a grand family of, in Asia Minor, in modern Turkey, ancestors have always been goddess Cybele and I am a a member of the governing board that runs the cult of Cybele, to that local deity. But if I come from North Africa, because that's where my army care about some local. No more than you might care at Yale, if you went to the No more important than you might Haven, if you came from and didn't like pizza. It's just like this local cult, it, and you don't care. So the kind of things you will religiously. But they will tend to be like Christianity. Religions that are not one god, in the sense of local So into this mess Diocletian-- predecessor, Carinus Diocletian is a general. In 284, it would have seemed But Diocletian rules until He passes the power He is, however, very typical class of the Empire. He came from nowhere, He was the son of an ex-slave modern coastal Croatia. You can still see his palace in on the Adriatic. His retirement palace, Under his severe guidance, And the way it was reformed was militarized. Diocletian was not a great brilliant manager. And he was a brilliant I used the term bureaucracy, useless administration, Administration officers of the doing their jobs, or maybe not But who are nevertheless-- I'm not making a value judgment bureaucracy-- I simply mean the proliferation and government offices. Diocletian is responsible for That is, building society around protect it. And he is responsible for ultimately, burdensome The two are enlinked because, as have a large and effective Diocletian did not set out His aims were conservative. He wanted to save, preserve, the pre-235 era. His methods were radical. He was willing to undertake And the debate among now somewhat muted. Many historians at one time destroyed the Empire. By making it so bureaucratic, heavy-handed, in terms of the Roman Empire. It was something else. Now the reason this is no longer be a big problem, or a big we come to read Wickham. The Empire has an impress There is what he calls the at the same time, not a controls everything. Society has an identity that's So he has three goals. One, solving this problem of Two, stabilizing the economy. Three, protecting Of these three, he's actually third, protecting He devises a system, that we're moment, of succession, but outlast him very long. The economy does get fixed but, his policies. What he's really successful dramatically, is what That includes the figure of the sacred and more powerful, in administration. Changes in the administration, then that goal of his to change The size of the army grew, Maybe, just as a ballpark 400,000 troops. This is a major, major had to be paid for. And it had to be paid for population not particularly volunteer to pay more. Ultimately, it looks as if increase taxation, as increase collection. In order to increase the he had to increase the monitoring the taxes. And that means first making an inventory of taxable resources. There is no income tax in this economy based more on land An income tax is easy because people are earning. The government, to this day, portion of your wages, because what you're being paid. If you're being paid in some waiter, and a lot of your harder for the government. If your wealth is in property, put a value on that. You own estates. You have people who are free you, and pay you in money, You have some slaves. You have a water mill. How do you pay taxes on The opportunities for So the first bureaucratic tasks of people could value things, territory and say OK, this farm has these many people. They develop a system to things like land, and according to a formula. So I have a lot of land, but I don't have a lot of people I will be taxed at a lower rate half that land, but twice the clearance of forest, whatever It changes. So every 15 years, the estimation. A second means, once you have of bringing the Empire together more, is to have the army really resources of the state. We now start to have a for the army alone. This allows the state to that debased currency. So for example, the state just gives it to the army, without giving that to the army. Diocletian binds the Empire effectively, by a Post in this case meaning a communications, that allows the anyone else, to have news send orders quicker And also, more punishment for It's not just that people get taxes, or imprisoned, or responsible. Not only that if I don't pay my if you and I live in the same your taxes, I get punished. Or at the very least, taxed for But the most important change establishment of what's The Tetrarchy is the Four rulers Diocletian divides East, West. A very significant consequences for the He then appoints a co-Emporer to rules in the East. And they each three and number four. The two Emperors are called helpers are Caesars. So they're subordinate to their they're supposed to help them. Why this system? This is really to overcome communication, administration. It's a statement that the for one man to rule. But the chief Emperors There's no longer they're just first citizens. or princes. They are clothed in purple. They don't move a lot We're familiar with this kind political figure as distant political figure at least like you and me. We're in the era The Diocletianic period ushers is distant, glimpsed, product of very funny-looking, He doesn't appear He's a god. You don't go up to him and You throw yourself at his feet, until he tells you to. So the tetrarchy, great idea, Because, first of all, don't necessarily cooperate. The Caesars don't necessarily And so in 285 Diocletian makes him, in 286, And this man is named In 293, Diocletian and Maximian I think I'm not going to burden I will hand out something on of this information. Diocletian and Maximian appoint and Constantius in the Western-- remember who these are-- and each of them marries their respective Augusti. This looks like a In 305, Diocletian and Maximian people become Augusti. The two Caesars rise up to be own new Caesars. It breaks down beginning One of the sons of one of appointed, and he's mad, And then the Augusti Out of this chaos between 306 And that is Constantine. And we'll be talking about So the Tetrarchy fails. Diocletian's second big question of the economy, and Diocletian issued a so-called The edict on prices fixed price for goods. And if you sold them for more severely punished. This is the kind of classic combat inflation by Most of you are not familiar have lived in an era of fairly stable prices. But if you think of those you are familiar with, like dislocating. It starts to create panics, and the inflation. Just as, if people keep on that it's going to go up in demand for gasoline, and it Eventually, if the thing is deflates again. And that's what's happened familiar with in recent times. But there is also a kind of inflation such as America example, in the '70s. And in theory, if you have that are becoming scarcer, then and more experience The government in the 1970s in to have an edict on prices. Under President Ford, there was of maximum prices. The problem with this is that black markets, creates a version talking about with Gresham's If you say that tomatoes can pound, then those tomatoes dollar a pound in a climate of terrible, will be rotten. If you want to pay $2.00 a pound nice tomatoes for you. And if you want to pay $5.00 a nice, locally-grown All of which may be illegal, but And this is what happened the edict of prices. This doesn't mean that the I mean it still remains degree to which government intervene in such things-- but certainly, in the case of What did bring back a measure reform of the taxation. The fact that the state simply resources, that less was being and so the state could administrative and So Diocletian succeeded in his retirement in Split in his breakdown, or the partial And in certain respects, his The edict on prices had to be not work, and Diocletian failed Christianity. We'll talk about this some more, late part of his reign, a couple to see what the future Right? Isn't that what we all do if you going to happen? You slaughter an animal and Maybe its kidneys But the liver is really what And I don't exactly know what organs were, and why they didn't the liver told Diocletian responsible for this, and that So there is this big persecution the first part of the And he certainly didn't Not only did the Christians Diocletian's most effective abdicated, would convert But Diocletian is extremely respects, extremely He did more than prop up He did more than just transform into a kind of tottering He saved the Roman Empire. He saved the Roman Empire When you take a course like this years, you start to hurl confused among them. But any polity that exists impressive. Or a polity that looks like it's then is restored The Roman Empire, conventionally thought to have collapsed the late fifth century. In the East however, arguably, more on the order The Eastern Empire, the would fall in 1453. And to its last day, it was administrative and People at the time clearly from disaster. If you look at fourth century on the floors of dining rooms, And their mottos are things everywhere.&quot; or &quot;A world is interpretable as an era of know that in the fifth century But people in the fourth century other, I'm so glad I'm alive in I don't want to see what's going They are just happy that the Danube and the Rhine, the controlled along the frontier. Yes, taxes are high. Yes, the elite is some sort of educated, and they're But basically, things are restored to the people who had local elites have declined, visible as it had been. But there are some changes. Changes that we can, with the hindsight, see. Changes in the center The dominant places are are military bases. They are great cities, with That is, stadiums, gateways. One of the best-preserved day is Trier in Germany. Trier, on the Moselle behind the Rhine, has a wonderful A gateway, the Porta Nigra, a basilica, a law court turned The reason trier was great was It was one of the most important because of the military, because importance. And there are other cities Milan, for example, becomes Because Milan is further north, get to the Danube and to the buried in the Mediterranean. So we're in a new world. We'll discuss more of the And we will see that completely revolutionizes And in other cases, continues