Hello and welcome to UnHerd, I'm Freddie Sayers. Deep State, the inner machinery of government big picture policy is actually decided. Well, in you'd struggle to find anyone who better what the deep state are really He's been in and out of the Pentagon since coup d'etat and strategy, both of which have been in university classes worldwide. He's been an Dalai Lama. He's a cattle farmer in Bolivia. he's a regular contributor to UnHerd. Taking time, Edward Luttwak is all ours for the next hour closed doors, about Ukraine, China, and Grand Let me make an important correction, and that is, I'm not a cattle farmer in I wouldn't be able to do any of those and actually is granging. It's just simply, you and the bulls walk around, and they sometimes but all you do is keep the fence. So this is they give birth. They do it all on their own. And Very good and are you in Bolivia No, no, I'm in the US. I mean, my study here. So anybody who's interested in Let me dive into really what happened we had what seemed to be a little bit of a moment President Zelensky of Ukraine and some of wording of the NATO communique was absurd. the Defence Secretary here in the UK actually would go a long way'. It seemed like maybe a There's much more than a shift in tone. First, the Ukrainians launched their all out army. When Russians go to war, they always mess generals who are no good. Then, in a second Russians started fighting seriously. And as you and after a several days were reporting the by 10 miles or 50 miles, 100 miles, they advanced they encountered this strong Russian army in the first year because the second they get stronger. that the President Biden made the clear decision The reason he did that is because that is what's And you have a bargaining chip, when you want to when you want to find a way out of this war, you the head of the CIA, who is not one of those usual everything, but is Mr. Burns, a very experienced Biden's man. Burns responds to the Prigozhin, mis-represented as a mutiny or even coup or head of the SVR the ForeignIntelligence Service's him, 'we have nothing to do with this thing, we does he say that? Because noise makers in Russia And people really didn't know anything at what's his relationship with Putin and so on. Naryshkin. Naryshkin took his call. We should the Foreign Intelligence Service, who was cut out Ukraine belongs to Russia, therefore, it's the It's like giving a job to the security service, the Secret Intelligence Service, because you claim by the way, is the person who, before the 'don't do it, you have a problem with Ukraine we have somebody in the Kremlin, who took that in charge of SVR. We have the American why is that? because the United States wants this total possible victory. They don't want the of Russia. They want this war to end. The Mr. Putin's signal which came two weeks ago, he nuclear weapons from hotheads in Russia and so nuclear weapons...' Tactical, it's something that 'I will not use nuclear weapons at all, unless words, it is the same position as Israel has, which is, 'we will strike back, we're not going a nuclear weapon, because we're annoyed with shutting up the extremists in Russia, who are not Burns opens the channel to Naryshkin, who is and the guy he knows is against the war? So these Could I just inquire, because there's quite a lot what you're saying is you think they are looking for peace at this point? And the signal preparing the ground for some kind of Yes, because the United States okay? They couldn't do that when the Russians Ukraine and seemingly poised to occupy more, but and there is no, absolutely no threat on Kyiv or anything of the sort. This So, do you think there's a downs in the US administration who are making The lower down... The people who have to deal with their job is to push weapons out to Ukraine, against Russia and all the rest of it. But on now is not to defend Kyiv, because Kyiv is not And you think President Absolutely he's on board with that. And that's then if the purpose was to fight and win, defeat is what hotheads have been saying- nobody in the and so on, they talk, they speculate, you know, be dismantled' and all that kind of stuff. None by Burns and by serious people like Because it's quite a shift in thinking, isn't Biden as someone who has drawn all these red given more and more weapons to Ukraine of the whole situation and There was no enthusiasm to throw everything caution. But now there is something else, that The profile of how to get out of this war is withdraw from all parts of Ukraine, other than the or whatever the Ukrainian term for them is, of they're substantial regions that are sometimes political administrative boundary, it is a region. only way out of this war is to have plebiscites 'do you want to be with Russia or with the The word plebiscite, itself implies the rules eight or nine of them after the First World War, between Belgium, Germany... Germany and Denmark, why was that? Because they were conducted under individuals, some part time Icelandic diplomat area certifying the votes. For example, the only who were born in Donetsk and Luhansk. And they they get to vote. Somebody who was not born showing that they've been living there for years you have a list of people entitled to vote. And neutral countries like India, Israel, all these to either side, and then you have an outcome, For that they've withdraw from all the other Is this an Edward Lutttwak plan or is this think it's feasible? Do you think No, this happens to be the plan that that I've to be no other plan. There is no other plan. the most ridiculous plan, but there's no other of course, the Russians have to give up any claim Ukraine or other parts of it, they have just very specific. Secondly, the Ukrainians have it was transferred administratively by Khrushchev story. And that will not be easy to do for they will be accused by extreme right or being which is what you might call a very which is a co untry whose founding figure genocidal leader before Hitler. That was back but Hitler is not celebrated in Germany. a region named after him, and ironically, difficulties... Russia, Ukraine... Once Ukraine can enter NATO. That's the big payoff. That's And the Russians are going to end withdrawal from mending the situation and with this, ther'll Because Washington is watching China, and China I want to come on to China, but just before happen? Is this your idea of what should Well, I think there are two possibilities. One is is that it won't. And if it won't, we are looking be a 25 year war. But in the meantime, notice their economy. Their inflation is less than in Their inflation is under control. They've manoeuvred around the sanctions. There's a Russia, are now produced. The economy is growing. on average more than the European Union. And military, in the sense of getting themselves people can fight, but also their economy and so why Putin has his own reason, just like Biden's it's China. Putin's reason has nothing to it has to do with the fact that his director of real authority, this woman, Nabiullina, she's a has controlled inflation very well, which has only British 1.5%, not eight or whatever is is. But she but scale down because otherwise she won't be able even worse than it is in France. In Nanterre, you year, eanother reason for people to burn shops but she's signals, 'that's it, if we continue, a catastrophe in Russia, because people live And if they can't make it with a salary they They can't go and get a job somewhere else down these messages, 'stop it, stop it, Your message is a lot more hopeful, in fact, if of the other people we've spoken to, because are coming to a point where they want to end it. in which case, we're in a better situation, or at we thought we were. I can see tens or hundreds plan the Crimean Tatars, whether you can conduct a I'm glad you mentioned. Sorry. Sorry, mentioned the Crimean paradox. Because it belonged to the Giray rulers of Crimea, And they get Giray rulers were expelled went to Turkey ended up in Ireland and they were there was a Giray flying as a pilot for RyanAir. you can give it to a guy who calls himself Prince Ghengis Khan. There aren't that many around, Crimea to the Girays, they have to give it that counts is Sebastopol, that's an Italian the other thing about being hopeful is that when say, one of these clerks who misled us all these his counterpart in Moscow to reassure him, then it to communicate. And finally the refusal to How does it happen in reality, then, because about hundred percent solidarity, Ukraine belongs There's no way to get to a peaceful outcome of if your waiver in supporting Ukraine, in terms the money and with all the other things they're reason to negotiate. They can say, 'we just we are not, our Russian army is getting So the wavering of support would remove the You hear that a lot, but then who opens grand strategy. It's like a poker game, So in my view, the negotiations are very easily opened through the channel that who is the head of the CIA. When Mr. Naryshkin who please notice overruled, but not fired. So Putin said, 'you're wrong, you're completely wrong, He's still in the Kremlin. We now have a channel And you think this... Let's put a timeline on if it doesn't happen, or if it does. There's no reason in my view, why the talks See, there is a sense of urgency urgency is that now that he has stabilised the And on the American side is the urgency because of what's been happening in China, So, and I guess also the election. The election is far away. The election is is not going to be an election where, 'who lost role. There's ambivalence in the Republican Party There is a pressure coming from the goings on in I would say that European authorities Mr. Josep Mr. Borrell has been quite timely in noticing the So lay it out for us then. then. What do you see as the threat and what Well, let me just limit About three weeks ago, Xi Jinping was was of Mongolia, the Inner Mongolia, which is the, so And there quite inappropriately, he starts talking extremely dangerous. It's extremely unstable. It's anything at all. And then helpfully, the usual, Peiking University explained that what he danger of war, okay. Then Xi Jinping, on July 7, goes to the eastern theatre command in Nanjing. whatever command in charge of the whole central that's the commander who will be dealing with 'get ready for war, you must be ready for you have to be ready to fight and to win'. think it's right for the rest of the world and it's not right to ignore the fact that ready to fight and win'. Now, at this point, you we should pay attention, we must not ignore right?' Well, I direct you to something it's called the Number One document. he's President of China, together with the party's and that's called Document Number One. It's the overall policy and that document Number One is we must import less, we must be self sufficient. China, a huge exporting country, they export anything. They can import all the wheat they whatever. 'No, we must produce grain, okay, and grain'. In other words, it's some kind of World you might say, 'well, this is just, they want more It sounds a little bit like what you about trying to onshore, trying to be more Very good. That's an excellent comment, that we're de-globalising'. Of course, you're the clincher. For the last, for many years now, landscape of bare hills. You know China gets hills a bare, they were deforested in the deforested hills everywhere. And so they I think over 15 years to plant trees. Well, after they are cutting trees to plant grain on slopes, situations. Why? Because of course, Communist audit, 'you must increase grain production'. They per capita than India. Okay. So what do they do? 'cut the trees to plant grain'. So this is not action. In Mongolia, he says war is imminent, Air Force and said, 'get ready to fight to win'. the way, when they did that the rains came, a lot the valley, because of course in China, Communist sense. There is no rewards for doing the right and they did it. So what we have here is much more So what do you think, if you're right, that war look like? How does it start? And Well, it should be. It should be the kind of war say that Chinese history is a history where small they they're met by big Chinese army with the phrases from Xi JinPing to eachother, the nomads and rule it for a hundred years or 200 years. dynasties. Foreigners come in, the foreigners Chinese apparently have many virtues, but fighting dynasties would have been, of course, the Japanese Quandong and huge parts of China and they will decided to have a war with the United States. the day when the United States defeated Japan, Japanese surrender, the Japanese army was Guangdong and all over China, because neither to make a dent in fighting them. The who ruled them for 200 years, not a threat. So But are you saying you think China would lose? Yeah, of course they would lose. Naturally, they have a navy they just built the day before, which right? And you have the Air Force, the Chinese really have the judges that really worked that a war with China that China loses and with no all over the place. It's enormous, Chinese handkerchiefs and all kinds of things. But the You don't know what happens next. Okay, but lethal word that this is the 'rejuvenation of population getting older by the day because they So this is all Mussolini stuff. Mussolini was become a great fighting people, great fighting gave them toy rifles and all that. This There's another argument, which is that you don't want to send them all out to war Well, yes. And you might say the following, that go to war, the first armed forces ever in the the only vectors of their families. And the entire don't have a brother or a sister. If that person Chinese families have their family name signified In fact, when they fought the Indians in March because the Chinese army pushes, pushes forward four soldiers, they went on and on about making fake films of the dead officer with the and he's holding him. So there are 1001 reasons Ping is the leader of China, not me or you? And and they're cutting trees in order to grow How does it start then in that presumably. There's some kind of Taiwan, is that what you think will I have no idea because, as I say, cutting trees first rain storm, you're now... You see this Russia, Ukraine, NATO Europe, where people know a different realm. This is the realm where he 'rejuvenation'. 'Rejuvenation', there has to vision of the Chinese as a decadent people fight and it obsesses him. And so, we're because if it were a Taiwan scenario, then which would not concern grain supplies for which, Okay, so you actually think it's potentially would be worse than just it might involve something else. I'm trying First of all, this is not something that can be This is not America, Russia, Ukraine, Europe. This is in complete control. He is the sole dictator. Xi Jinping. If he wakes up in the morning, let's He might decide that he has to fight and win this Maybe we need more years to prepare for it, but is, by the way, how we got World War Two, because maybe in 1945 but Adolf Hitler felt that he But what else might he do other If the only justification laid out is Taiwan, it And of course, half the Taiwanese generals on the coast there, the Fujian coast, and probably the Taiwanese are Chinese, they're Chinese, any military enterprise. If you look, this Taiwan. And they ought to be able to have, to be able to put 3 million people in uniform All they want is to buy fancy aircraft and and Taiwan is that kind of war it's a sort of what American leaders, and I'm glad to say, key somebody keeps talking about war, you cannot not at least settle Ukraine and not to So are you saying in your private conversations the impression they have a similar view to Only some of them, some of them, for example, Borrell is originally a sort of Spanish socialist to do with energy, deterrents, peace, war but he's Borrell he starts saying, 'European countries you know, the Netherlands has a ship that can go the Italians visit at least Japan, with their be active in that area because he sees the danger. which is not a terribly long time ago, Europe agreement with China, comprehensive agreement, and so on. And that was negotiated by the people of December 20 of 2020. And then it went before raised obvious questions, such as forced labour in led to a negotiation. Instead of a negotiation, who's now a Politburo member, and everything else. 'who the hell are these people asking us...? Wang Yi, in order to please see Xi Jinpig to Mandarin... He started shouting at the people who negotiated the treaty understood to tell you that there is no China at all. China he feels today. Wang Yi is the best proof, he was polite and friendly and social. He kept inviting in Beijing because I was an advisor to Abe Shinzo, you know the Japanese over his 12 year tenure often in Beijing. I many times met Wang Yi but he was the most convivial possible person. The his tone changes, his manner changes, his Wang Yi. So we're dealing with free floating purpose. Okay. And this what we're dealing von der Leyen picked it up. And I think individual cannot pick anything like that, because, as you So I have two questions, if I may. So to both Republicans and Democrats in the US who is a foreign policy adviser to Republican on the Republican nominee who was he said he thinks the energy should move away don't think at least the normal narrative is that are they also beginning to move focus Elbridge Colby is a person who's already been going to play a role in the government, in he is representative of the, I would say, the But even people who are less informed many signals coming. Xi Jinping makes and most people ignored sixteen of them, Do you think Jake Sullivan and Democrat Yes, absolutely. And when the head of Russian counterpart to reassure him that because you have something else to worry this has also another implication, unlike a lot Russian Federation. The Russian Federation, China as much as we would wish. The countries Mongolia, full of resources, which would fall another huge country's seventh largest So my second question then is, where leave NATO and European security? Because if the this energy is going to be directed towards Well, first of all, the Americans are not going in Asia itself, there's a thing called NATO And we're already siding with them? The resources that are involved in the Ukraine war, armoured division, you don't need this type forces altogether. There is actually, it's not down and so on. You don't have a simple mechanical focus problem. And you have another big problem, if that is the threat, you You have been observing the international to say maybe more than four or even up A century or two yes - for a job at a very high level. How does the with perceived danger? Do you think we are in a in coming years? Or do you think we're gonna If Xi Jinping is what I not Hitler. But Mussolini. Somebody whose all to be a great warrior nation like poor Mussolini day as a lion than a hundred years as a sheep'. the killing of tyrants, tyrannicide, the moral from killing a lot of people... Tyrannicide we need to propagate is tyrannicide. In stead of are propagating, we should propagate tyrannicide. If that doesn't happen, you think We have a dangerous future because of personal feeling that the The English translation is 'make young again'. I was thinking we would conclude there warning. It seems like it all for you hinges Unfortunately, it's very demoralising, it's advance at all because we're still dependent on Erdogan. He changes his mind from one day to obsessed. And we had Saddam Hussein and and it is demoralising, that it's not a national because it depends on the whims and wishes of one kill the bastard. It's their duty to get rid of same as the Iraqis went down the drain with Saddam Well, it's a sober, a sobering note really great to hear your thoughts and thank you Thank you very much. Thank you. Bye bye. That was Edward N. Luttwak, someone who more presidents and prime ministers I suspect Whether you agreed or not with his analysis, say it how they see it. Thanks to Edward and Transcribed by https://otter.ai