Hi! Today, we're staying at a beautiful Onsen Ryokan (hot spring inn). We're heading to Fukushima Station, about 2 hours by bullet train from Tokyo. Let's get away from the hustle and bustle of the city. Arrived at Fukushima Station! Fukushima is the third largest prefecture in Japan. Fukushima Station is in the heart of Fukushima City, a calm but spacious station. Cute rabbit. We'll head to the hotel by public bus or taxi. There's no good bus timing today, so we're taking a taxi. It's 30 minutes by taxi and 40 minutes by bus from the station to the hotel. The taxi costs about 6,000 yen, while the bus is 840 yen, by the way. The road turns mountainous along the way. It's starting to snow! I didn't expect it to snow in late March. As we get closer to the hot springs, you can smell sulfur even inside the car. Thank you! We've arrived! This is a ryokan in Takayu Onsen, famous for its over 400 years of history and milky blue waters. Let's go in. What a warm entrance. Cobblestone front desk. There's a souvenir shop next door. Cute owl figurines. The building is historic, but the lounge combines stylish Japanese and Western elements. Complimentary drinks like tea. There's also a hearth. The welcome drink is grape soda. Good. &gt;&gt; Staff: For the indoor wear, we have prepared lounge wear in your room. &gt;&gt; Staff: If you'd like a yukata, we have them available here. Would you like to take one? &gt;&gt; Staff: The simple yukata on the right is complimentary. &gt;&gt; Staff: The one on the left is a colorful yukata, available for 300 yen each. Hmm... I chose a regular yukata with the ryokan's logo. We'll be shown to our room. The interior is clean. It has a stylish yet relaxing atmosphere with a Japanese flair. &gt;&gt; Staff: Your dining area will be at &quot;Iroribata&quot; here. &gt;&gt; Staff: Dinner and breakfast will be served here, so please come at your designated time. &gt;&gt; Staff: The private indoor bath is located here. &gt;&gt; Staff: Reservation required, please inform us when. &gt;&gt; Staff: Your room is on the second floor. The inn is wooden and does not have an elevator. &gt;&gt; Staff: Welcome, this is your room &quot;Yuri&quot; for today. Thank you for showing us to our room. This is what the entrance looks like. You take off your shoes here and step up. Superior Type Room, with dinner and breakfast for two: 54,000 yen (356.80 USD / EUR 330.59). It's a traditional room that has a Japanese feel... but also offers the modern convenience of contacting the front desk via smartphone. A low sofa that matches the Japanese-style room. When you sit, there's a TV in front, perfect for relaxing. There are dried fruits on the table! Fukushima is known for its fruits, especially peaches. Peaches, lemons, and kiwis. Yummy. The two-story inn has about 20 rooms and is relatively compact. The area by the window is carpeted, not tatami. The windows are large, letting in plenty of light. The snow is incredible! In this area, it can snow even in March and April. No worries on super cold days. There's a gas heater. Ah, it's super warm. Of course, there's also an air conditioner. A tea set in the corner. Two bottles of complimentary water. An electric kettle and stylish cups. Coffee and green tea. A small fridge. It's empty. The entrance connecting the living room and bedroom is uniquely shaped. There are two beds. There's also a gas heater on the bedroom side. A two-seater bench by the window. It doesn't look like it's going to stop. I wonder if it'll pile up more? A closet next to the bed. You can store luggage and clothes. One-size lounge wear. Yukata jacket for cold weather. I'm going to open the closet on the right as well. Jackets for the yukata and tabi socks. Tenugui (Japanese Hand towel). Baskets with bath towels. The bathroom is on the entrance side. Razor. Hairbrush. Cotton swab &amp; pad. Shower cap. Toothbrush. Cleansing, face wash, lotion, emulsion, hair milk. Hairdryer, hand soap, small mirror. Clean flush toilet. Room tour ends! It's a nice room. There are two keys, so you can carry them separately when going out. The inn also offers private onsen baths, but let's first visit the separate public onsen baths for men and women. (Filming is done with special permission.) Washstands with mirrors. Amenities such as hairdryers and hairbrushes are available. The same skincare products as in the room. Get undressed and let's go. First, the indoor bath. Showers and shampoos. First, clean your body. Look at the color of water! Beautiful! Beyond this door is the open-air bath. It's cold, so cold. Wow, the snowy scenery makes it feel magical. The pale, milky color is due to hydrogen sulfide. Sulfur springs are considered good for the skin due to their high antibacterial properties. It's warm and comfortable. And guess what, the open-air bath continues even further back. Beyond here, it connects to the men's bath and becomes a mixed-gender area. Wearing a bath towel is allowed here. Moreover, this open-air bath becomes women-only from 6 PM to 9 PM. Wow, amazing. This is the biggest attraction! A long, narrow bath stretching 30 meters. It's like a river! Includes waterfall and reclining baths. Oh? There's even a cave. Fun. Here we go. The bath is generally shallow, with rough floors for a wild feel. It's pure spring water with no added heat or water, so the temperature varies by location. It's spacious and unique, so expect your bath time to be longer than usual. Made it to the very end. Actually, water is clear at the source but changes color with air. So, I heard the color changes with the season and weather. Today, it's a whitish milky blue? It's cute. The snowfall was lucky. It's very beautiful. Truly a great hot spring! Look forward to the night version too. Now, let's head to the private open-air bath as well. We reserved only the outdoor onsen bath at check-in. Phew... It's even further down from the first floor. A resting spot for rehydration after the onsen. Huh? The path continues. I wonder where the bath is. The taxi driver said there are no bears around here, but there are monkeys. The icicles hanging from the roof are impressive. Oh, finally found a hut. This must be the open-air bath. There are two baths, and we'll be using the left one. We enter with a key borrowed from the front desk. Since it's private, don't forget to lock the door from inside. The changing area. And then the hot spring! The shower here is closed in winter, so come here after washing up in the public bath. It's simpler than the public bath, perfect for a deep soak and relaxation. Ahh, this is awesome. I'm all warmed up. It was so healing. There's another lounge near the front desk. It was just recently renovated! Elegant. It's very spacious with plenty of seats. A bar counter. Some alcoholic drinks like wine are free. Coffee and snacks are also available to enjoy freely. That building visible from the window is the communal bath facility. It's time for dinner. We've come to the restaurant &quot;Iroribata.&quot; Thank you. Each table in private rooms has its own irori, a traditional Japanese hearth. Look, tulips. A wide selection of drinks including local sake and wine. First, the appetizers. Then the grilled dishes. The staff helped us arrange them. &gt;&gt; Staff: The chicken meatball with is already seasoned with miso leek. &gt;&gt; Staff: Fried tofu and taro. &gt;&gt; Staff: Please enjoy with yuzu fruit miso sauce. A toast with sake and peach juice. Let's eat. A colorful appetizer plate with bream sashimi and duck prosciutto. Wagyu sushi simply seasoned with salt and wasabi. Every dish is good, with a twist on the ingredients' natural goodness. Flipping as needed. The chicken meatballs look ready. It's a meatball made from local Fukushima chicken. Bamboo shoot and fish bun. Soft and chewy texture. It's warm. Fukushima Date Chicken Poele. Poele is a French cooking method. The surface is crispy, and the inside is fluffy. &gt;&gt; Staff: Here is grilled sweetfish, herring, and Fukushima's Date Chicken. Second round of grilled dishes. The sweetfish is already grilled, so just sear it lightly. You can eat the whole grilled ayu, bones and all. The innards are a bit bitter but tasty. Grilled fish goes perfectly with sake--pure bliss. Make sure the chicken is well-cooked. A little longer. &gt;&gt; Staff: Wagyu roast and sea urchin. With various condiments, wasabi, salt, or steak sauce. Tender yet meaty. Delicious. Rice and pickles. And a winter pot. Full of vegetables like water celery and taro. Warm and comforting flavors. The portion is generous, leaving us satisfied. Finally, dessert. So beautiful. A roasted green tea pudding with a hint of bitterness. Thank you for the meal! Came to the public bath at night! The atmosphere is different at night, and it's wonderful. We're back. The double-pane windows are characteristic of regions with severe cold. The road is completely white now. It's a snowstorm. If 4 people were staying, they'd probably provide futons. The mattress is fluffy. You can charge your devices by the bed. This is stylish. It was a luxurious and healing day. Good night. Good morning. Coffee and green tea. These slightly austere cups are cute. Today, contrasting with yesterday, the weather is nice. It's time for breakfast. The menu is a mix of Japanese and Western, with grilled mackerel, sausages, sashimi, etc. There's also miso soup and salad. The sukiyaki was very delicious! There's a little bit of various side dishes, all colorful and satisfying. I believe this restaurant offers not just simple local Fukushima dishes... but unique, inventive cuisine you can't find anywhere else. Bread has also arrived. Fukushima's peach jam. And fruits. Thank you for the meal. Morning lounge. Here, you can enjoy capsule-type coffee. It was quite crowded during the dark hours, but mornings offer relaxed seating. Check-out is until 11 AM. We'll take the bus back home. Look, that's the hot spring source, but the water is clear, not blue! Hi! We're here at Sapporo Station in Hokkaido. Today, we're staying at a hot spring ryokan near Lake Toya, Japan's third largest caldera lake. There's a shuttle bus from Sapporo Station or New Chitose Airport to the ryokan. But, the schedule doesn't work for us, so we're taking the train to Toya Station. We're taking the Limited Express Hokuto. It takes about two hours from Sapporo Station to Toya Station. The view from the window changes from city buildings to natural scenery. Wow! If you sit on the left side, you can see Uchiura Bay. Today is cloudy. We've arrived at Toya Station. It's the nearest station to the over 110-year-old Toyako Onsen. Many hot spring inns are here, so quite a few people get off. Although the days have been hot, Hokkaido's summer is comfortable with low humidity. We'll take a taxi from here to the inn. It takes about 15 minutes by car from Toya Station to the inn. Wow! It's Lake Toya! So beautiful! Lake Toya is unique, with islands forming a donut shape in the center. You can catch a glimpse of the islands. Today's inn is located on the southwest side of Lake Toya. The hotel opened in 2012, and all rooms have lake views. Check-in is from 3 PM. &gt;&gt; Staff: Welcome! Thank you for coming. &gt;&gt; Staff: Right this way. This is a large ryokan with over 160 rooms. The entrance hall is spacious. Reception. It has a calm atmosphere with large sofas. &gt;&gt; Staff: You can see Lake Toya right in front of you. &gt;&gt; Staff: On a clear day, you can also see Mt. Yotei. There are also exhibits and sales nearby. They sell products and crafts from local manufacturers. This hotel consists of two buildings: the Spa-resort building and the Nonokaze-Club building. We'll be staying in the Nonokaze-Club building this time. This lounge is exclusively for guests staying in the Nonokaze-Club. You can choose a welcome drink. My husband chose haskap juice, and I chose beer. Thank you. The cups are cute, too. And the coffee cookies. The beer was refreshing and delicious. &gt;&gt; Staff: Welcome once again to Nonokaze Resort. &gt;&gt; Staff: Dinner tonight and breakfast tomorrow are buffet-style at the venue. &gt;&gt; Staff: Here is a map of our facility. &gt;&gt; Staff: There are two hot springs: on the second and ninth floors. &gt;&gt; Staff: The second floor is themed after a Showa-era bathhouse. &gt;&gt; Staff: And the ninth floor offers baths with a panoramic view of Lake Toya. &gt;&gt; Staff: Here is your room key for today. &gt;&gt; Staff: Your room is number 1507. Since it's exclusive, let's relax here before heading to our room. In the center is a table made from a 450-year-old sacred tree. The unlimited drink selection changes by time of day. In the early afternoon, they have siphon coffee, machine coffee, and juices. I tried brewing some herbal tea. It smells wonderful. They also have chilled Hokkaido wine! I loved the coffee cookies. They were tasty. Let's head to our room. &gt;&gt; Staff: Tap your room key on the sensor when entering this lounge. &gt;&gt; Staff: There are two keys for your room. &gt;&gt; Staff: The door auto-locks, so please take them with you and return them at check-out. Deluxe Twin with meals for two: 58,000 yen (395.70 USD / EUR 363.00). Let's change into slippers. I wonder how the view is from the window? Wow, it's really beautiful. You can usually see a mountain called Mount Yotei, but it's cloudy today. The window opens about a third of the way. Nonokaze Resort as seen from the lake. The lakeshore road is easily accessible from the first-floor entrance. The charm here is the beautiful view of Lake Toya, both from your room and outside. Let's do a room tour. There are two large sofas arranged in an L-shape. There are two kinds of snacks on the table. Yay! Square and flat steamed buns. An unusual shape. Filled with lots of sweet bean paste. Zakkoku Jagapolin. What a cute name. It looks like a cookie. But it has spices on it and is spicy. Yummy. A TV perfectly positioned for comfortable viewing from the sofa. A minibar by the window. Coffee set and tablet. You can use the tablet for hotel info and to contact the front desk. Cups. Sencha (Green Tea). Ceylon Uva. Mint Tea. Chamomile &amp; Peppermint. Darjeeling. Original coffee beans. We'll have some tomorrow. Electric kettle. Refrigerator. Two bottles of water from Hokkaido. Complimentary. Here's the bedroom on this side. The warm lighting is nice. There's another TV here. There's also a desk next to the bed. You can use your laptop here, thanks to the power outlets. There's a memo pad with the hotel's logo. You can use it to take notes or write a diary. Closet. Yukatas in different sizes. Samue (Japanese traditional loungewear). Pajamas. Drawstring bags and tabi socks. Lots of hangers. Jackets for the yukatas. Such cute colors. Two beds. There's a washroom in the back. Spacious and nice! Shower room. Two sinks, so convenient. A variety of skincare products. You can open and close the blinds to see the lake. There are plenty of towels, so feel free to take a bath. Hairbrush. Razor. Cotton, hair ties, and cotton swabs. Toothbrush set. Loublldo hairdryer. The entire room is 56 square meters, very spacious. Since it's new, everything is spotless. The restroom is in front of the entrance. Wow, spacious. Great restroom. There's a bench, making it easy to change your shoes. It seems like there's a museum on each floor, so let's check it out. On the 5th floor, there's a &quot;Fortune-Telling&quot; exhibit. Let's try the ring toss fortune-telling. It landed on the light blue peg... &quot;Kichi&quot; means &quot;good luck&quot;! The 6th floor has a &quot;Cardboard Art&quot; exhibit. There are artworks made of cardboard, like animals and chairs, on display. We've come to the exclusive lounge for Nonokaze-Club guests. From 4 PM, they have sweets! From 4:30 PM to 6 PM, you can also have beer. And of course, it's all included at no extra charge. Enjoying a cold beer while looking at Lake Toya. Awesome!! If you're undecided about which room to stay in... Go for a room in the Nonokaze-Club building to enjoy this lounge. If you're not staying in the Nonokaze-Club building... it seems like you can order original cocktails in the lobby. Well, it's already time for dinner. We're having dinner at the buffet restaurant. The lakeside has floor-to-ceiling windows, giving a great sense of openness. Along the wall, there's an open kitchen. Sushi! And crab sushi! Freshly fried tempura. This is the BBQ station. They grill Hokkaido beef steak right in front of you. You can tell it'll be tender and juicy before even eating it. They have Chinese food too. Hot shumai. In the center, there's a large round table with dishes lined up. Corn tofu and red pepper mousse. There are many unique dishes with special touches. Speaking of Hokkaido, it's all about seafood! The presentation is impressive! Very bold. Salad. Lots of different types of tomatoes. And various dressings too. A food truck inside the restaurant?! You can choose your favorite pasta. And they'll make it right in front of you. It's great that the portions aren't too big. The cakes are colorful and very cute! They also have fruit. So, we got a lot of food. There were so many choices, it was fun picking out what to eat. Let's eat. It looks fancy, but the flavors are something everyone can enjoy, from kids to adults. Umm, delicious! The crab sushi is my favorite. The bouillabaisse made with Hokkaido rockfish is also nice. Hokkaido is full of delicious gourmet food. At a buffet, it's great to be able to try a little bit of everything you like. The desserts are also very diverse. They have everything from Hokkaido milk ice cream and cakes to popcorn. We are completely satisfied. We are so full. Thank you for the meal. Now, we're going to the much-anticipated hot springs. First, we're heading to the public bath on the top floor of the Spa Resort building. Here, they have separate baths for men and women, as well as private baths. For tattoos or private bathing with family, use the private baths for a fee. (Filming was permitted.) This is the women's bath. It's so spacious!! The brownish water is a distinctive feature. The view of Lake Toya from the upper floor is majestic. Enjoying this scenery while soaking in the bath! There are various baths, including reclining and standing ones. There are more showers than at any other place I've been to. They have a full set of shampoo, conditioner, and cleansing products. And there are also two types of saunas. Up the stairs, there's the Open-Air Bath. Wow, this is amazing. It looks like the bath connects directly with Lake Toya. The view is unobstructed, just a stunning panorama. The water quality is sodium-calcium chloride hot spring. Due to its high salt content, the water is said to taste a bit salty. Salt sticks to your skin, prevents sweat evaporation, and retains heat well. It's also effective for minor cuts and neuralgia. The brownish water is from a slight change in quality caused by Mt. Usu's 2000 eruption. At night, it must be amazing to watch the fireworks over Lake Toya from here. We've come to another bath, &quot;Showa no Yu.&quot; &quot;Showa&quot; refers to the Japanese era from 1926 to 1989. This bath is designed to evoke that era. On the wall, Mount Yotei! A typical Showa-era bathhouse. Two types of baths: regular and hot spring water. It's unique to have a hot spring with a theme like this, which is interesting. There were also retro props placed outside the bath area. It was a fun hot spring with a playful atmosphere. At 8:45 PM, it's time for the Lake Toya Fireworks Festival! In 2024, it will be held daily from April 28 to October 31, except in bad weather. The fireworks are launched from a boat moving along a 2 km stretch of Lake Toya. On the ship &quot;The Espoir,&quot; you can watch the fireworks up close for the entire show. So, many people board the boat. However, you can see the fireworks from the hotels along the lakeshore. We'll watch the fireworks from our room instead of boarding the boat. Here they go! The launch location moves from west to east. You can see the fireworks from the beginning from this ryokan. A whistling sound signals a particularly beautiful firework. It really feels like summer! It's amazing. The fireworks are free and viewable from sidewalks, even if you're not staying at a hotel. Many people were watching today. But watching from our room is a special experience. It was a wonderful night. Goodnight. Good morning. Chatty seagull. Let's make some coffee. These are the hotel's original blend coffee beans. You can also have coffee in the lounge. But I like enjoying a quiet cup in the room. It's cloudy today, so we couldn't see Mount Yotei, but the view is still beautiful. Now, it's time for breakfast. It's the same buffet as last night. I'm in the mood for something sweet today. Just like dinner, there's a wide variety of dishes. But you can try different items than at night. I had a pancake freshly made right in front of me. It's fluffy and tasty. Thank you for the meal. Maybe we'll buy some souvenirs. We came to the shop near the lobby on the first floor. Hokkaido cheesecake. Hokkaido milk skincare. I didn't expect it to be this spacious! Wow, it's really wide. Over here, they have clothes and bags, I think? All the souvenirs are related to Hokkaido and Lake Toya. Hokkaido local sake and wine. Exfoliating towels. Dango-shaped chopstick rests. In the back, there's a sweets cafe where you can also get takeout. After some deliberation, I chose the classic Hokkaido souvenir &quot;Shiroi Koibito.&quot; Check-out is easy with the multi-language self-checkout machine. Just return the key card. Toya Lake Onsen has a unique charm you can't find anywhere else. Hi! We're at Sendai Station in Miyagi Prefecture. Sendai Station is about an hour and a half from Tokyo Station by Shinkansen. It's the largest station in northeastern Japan. Today, we're staying at a hot spring inn in Minamisanriku. We're heading to Rikuzentokura Station from Sendai Station. Taking the train involves several transfers, which can be a bit of a hassle. There's a free shuttle bus from Sendai Station directly to the hotel once a day... so if the timing works out, it's recommended to reserve a spot on that shuttle. The nearest station to the hotel, Rikuzentokura Station, has a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system. The BRT was introduced to replace railway lines damaged by the 2011 earthquake and tsunami. Here Minamisanriku was particularly hard hit by the tsunami. And the original railway tracks were washed away by the tsunami. Rebuilding the railway was too expensive and slow, so a dedicated BRT lane was built instead. Arrived at Rikuzentokura Station. From here, we're heading to the hotel by a pre-booked shuttle bus. &gt;&gt; Staff: Before the earthquake 13 years ago, there were houses here in the Tokura area. &gt;&gt; Staff: But all were swept away by the tsunami. &gt;&gt; Staff: Originally, you could see the beautiful sea from here... &gt;&gt; Staff: but now, for safety after the disaster, this seawall has been built. &gt;&gt; Staff: You can't see outside at all now, but it really was a beautiful spot with a great view. It's a 5-minute drive from Rikuzentokura Station to the hotel. Thank you! Opened in 1972. Features include a hot spring sourced from 2000 meters underground, ocean views, and seafood. This is the front desk floor. It has a nostalgic vibe that's really inviting. There are many seats with large windows offering a panoramic view of the ocean. Beautiful. The seaside hotel was also flooded up to the second floor by the tsunami during the disaster. This is the fifth floor. However, the hotel suffered almost no damage from the earthquake itself, not even in the shop where products fell. It's a building with a sturdy earthquake-resistant structure. Local souvenirs. Shark fin pie?! Near the shop, a staff member was handing out local chowder. It's piping hot. It's loaded with vegetables and clams and was really good. Check-in starts at 3:00 PM. We received two keys for our room, which is convenient. Let's head to our room. This is the restaurant. We'll have dinner here tonight. Further inside, there was a small arcade. With photo sticker booths and crane games. It's nostalgic and cute. Found something good! Rank B. Today's 3rd place. Mediocre result. Now, let's finally head to our room. It's on the 10th floor. This hotel has two buildings, the South and East wings, and we are in the East wing. There isn't much difference, but the rooms in the East wing are newer and larger. Our room, with meals included for two people, costs 35,200 yen (227.14 USD / EUR 212.31). It's very reasonably priced, especially considering it offers services like a hot spring and seafood cuisine! Wonder what the room is like. The entrance. It looks clean and nice. The door has a lock. Let's take off our shoes and go inside. It's a simple and lovely tatami room. We chose a room on the sea side. Beautiful! The window opens just a little bit. Wowwww! Lots of black-tailed gulls are flying in! Adorable. The reason they come flying in is... because they get snacks. Black-tailed gulls have cute yellow legs and a distinctive cry. During the winter, seagulls also come to visit. It's interesting and fun to see wildlife this close up. What a fun experience. It's a unique experience only Minamisanriku offers. See you again. The view from the room is amazing, and the black-tailed gulls just make it even better. So fluffy. Resting on one leg. A table and floor chairs in the middle of the room. Packs of Japanese tea. Steamed buns with salt. The dough, seasoned with a hint of salt, is lightly filled with sweet red bean paste Sweet and slightly salty, it's addictively good. TV and free Wi-Fi are available. A shelf for drinks by the window. Plenty of cups. Cold and delicious water. Electric kettle. A small refrigerator. It's empty. What's this wooden board...? It's actually a large, convenient mirror. A closet in the corner. A safe and extra floor chairs. A yukata jacket. Nice color. An internal phone to the front desk. You can request a yukata in your size over the phone, and they'll deliver it to your room. Thank you. There seems to be a restroom near the entrance. A clean toilet with handrails and a vanity. This is the bathroom area with a wash basin and bath. It's nice with a large mirror. Lotion, emulsion, makeup remover. Toothbrush. Hairbrush. Shower room. Probably won't use it, given the large public bath. That's the end of the room tour. It's a nice room. Before heading to the bath, I heard we could go to the rooftop using the emergency stairs, so let's check it out. Wow, it's very open. You can see the sea all around. There are also black-tailed gulls. How beautiful. It fills my heart. Heading to the gender-segregated public baths on the second floor. The women's bath is on the right, and the men's bath is on the left. They open to day visitors in the lunchtime. (Filming with special permission). Changing room. It's spacious. There are many vanities equipped with hairdryers and skincare products. &quot;Entry prohibited for those with tattoos.&quot; And here's the indoor bath. It's spacious and beautiful! Many shower booths. Shampoo and other essentials are of course provided. Heading to the outdoor bath. You walk along a stone-paved path. It's April, but still chilly. Wow, this outdoor bath feels like it juts out into the sea. It's amazing. Surrounded by rocks, it feels like a cave. It's a natural hot spring that wells up from 2000 meters underground. The water temperature is just right. So relaxing. An infinity-style bath that seems to connect to the sea! What a spectacular view. There are even more outdoor baths further along. This area has a two-tiered bath, enhancing the cave-like feel. The spring water of &quot;Minamisanriku Onsen&quot; is a sodium-calcium chloride type. It's colorless, transparent, and mild. Effective for beautifying skin and soothing neuralgia, it heals the body after a long journey. The rocky surroundings frame the view, making the sea scenery look like a painting. This baths were directly hit by the tsunami, but reopened on the 136th day after the disaster. Grateful to the hotel staff who maintained this place. It was the best bath experience. It's time for dinner. Came to the restaurant on the fifth floor. Thank you. Dinner features a lavish seafood feast from Minamisanriku. It looks delicious. Wow, the sashimi has arrived. Sparkling. Ordered 'Sawanoizumi,' a famous sake from this area. We usually order local sake when staying at a ryokan. Uh-oh, it's abalone dancing grill! Cheers Let's enjoy. Every piece of sashimi is really delicious! Perfect with the sake. Besides sashimi, many dishes use seafood and vegetables for a gentle taste. A seafood dinner as vibrant and good as you'd expect from a seaside hot spring inn. It's the best. The rice is not quite ready yet. The abalone has stopped dancing. Add butter and lemon to taste. A staff member came and cut the abalone for us. A magnificent abalone. Thick and large. Quickly cut into bite-sized pieces. &gt;&gt; Staff: You can eat the liver as well. A chewy texture that's really good. How about the hot pot? It's good. A soup hot pot with oysters and milt, made with a fish bone dashi. The sweetness of the ingredients is wonderfully extracted. There's more to come. Whole shark fin simmered. Kesennuma in Miyagi Prefecture is Japan's top producer of shark fins. Chawanmushi in a cute dish. The rice is ready! Luxurious seafood seasoned rice with crab and sea urchin. Clear soup. It also contains splendid alfonsino. There are many dishes and the quantity is quite generous. If you want to enjoy local seafood, this is the perfect place. Everything was delicious. Dessert of matcha mousse cake and fruits. Thank you for the meal. The lobby displays materials and photos related to the disaster. The town before the disaster. Eight days after the disaster. Approximately 62% of Minamisanriku town was destroyed, with 620 people dead and 211 missing. At the time of the disaster, 350 people were staying at this hotel, and it accommodated over 600 people as a shelter. We are back. When we returned, the futons had been laid out. Thank you. The sea at night. Can you see how clear it is? It's very beautiful. These are black-tailed gulls floating on the sea! It's an interesting sight. They all seem to be bathing in the sea at night. In this Bay, seaweed, oysters, and silver salmon are cultivated. The floating markers of the fishing nets and the gulls shimmer in the night sea, looking like a starry sky. Good night. Good morning. Heard sunrise is around 4:55, so we got up early to catch it. Here it comes. The orange light illuminating the sea is beautiful. The black-tailed gulls have also come to greet us. Good morning. It's time for breakfast. It's a buffet in a large hall with many big tables. The cuisine is a mix of Japanese, Western, and Chinese. It's a typical hotel buffet, featuring a variety of dishes including salads and soups. There's also bread. Let's pick a variety. We'll enjoy our meal at a table with a view of the sea. My breakfast plate. My husband's plate has more Japanese dishes. There were soba noodles and sashimi as well. It was good. Thank you for the meal. We're joining the Storyteller Bus available for 500 yen per person. It's a roughly one-hour tour with a guide, exploring disaster relics and the progress of reconstruction. . This bus tour, running almost daily since the year after the disaster, shares survivors' experiences. &gt;&gt; Staff: Before the disaster, there were many roads like this. &gt;&gt; Staff: This photo was taken from the air one week after the disaster. &gt;&gt; Staff: The town was completely gone. &gt;&gt; Staff: On the right side now, there's a building called &quot;Takano Kaikan.&quot; &gt;&gt; Staff: It's a building that was once a ceremonial hall. Takano Kaikan, a steel building located about 200 meters from the coast. During the disaster, it was hit by a 22-meter tsunami, reaching near the fourth floor. At the time, there was a senior citizens' performance, causing panic inside. People rushed to the entrance trying to get out, but... &quot;If you want to survive, stay here,&quot; said the staff on site, directing 327 people and two dogs to the roof, where they survived. It remains preserved as it was, as a private disaster relic. &gt;&gt; Staff: After the disaster, local people made this magnificent monument. &gt;&gt; Staff: &quot;To future generations, if there's an earthquake, flee to higher ground than this spot.&quot; &gt;&gt; Staff: The monument was placed 23 meters from the sea. &gt;&gt; Staff: But this spot was also hit by the tsunami. &gt;&gt; Staff: If an earthquake comes again, make sure to evacuate to an even higher place. &gt;&gt; Staff: They left these words as a message for the people who remain on this land. This is the crisis management building, where 43 staff and residents lost their lives in the tsunami. &gt;&gt; Staff: The roof is 12 meters high. &gt;&gt; Staff: Only 10 people managed to survive by clinging to fences and antennas on the roof. &gt;&gt; Staff: Thank you for joining us for an hour today. Hot springs, great meals, and nature made for a soothing stay. It was affordable and full of learning. Hi! Today, we're staying at a hot spring inn in Niigata Prefecture. First, we're heading to Echigo-Yuzawa Station, about an hour by Shinkansen from Tokyo. There are many tunnels along the way because of the mountains. Finally out of the tunnel. And just like that, we've arrived at Echigo-Yuzawa Station. Echigo-Yuzawa Station is known as a premier hot spring and ski resort in Niigata Prefecture. You can also get to the Manor House Ryokan we stayed at before from this station. Now, we'll take the Joetsu Line from here to Ohsawa Station. Ohsawa Station is just a 10-minute train ride from Echigo-Yuzawa Station. The weather today is cloudy. Ohsawa Station is an unmanned station. &quot;Ticket and Fare Box&quot; There are no shops around. It's surrounded by nature, giving it a secluded feel. We'll head to the ryokan by taxi or reservation-only free shuttle. It's about a 5-minute ride. We heard that this year, there's only about a third of the usual snow accumulation. Here. This onsen ryokan was renovated over two years from a closed business and opened in 2014. The reception building is a 150-year-old traditional house. The building is made entirely of wood, assembled without using any nails. A 10-meter-high atrium lobby. It's impressive. A large sculpture welcomes you. Is it supported by just one person?! There are many seats and rooms available. Let's check in. Welcome drink and sweets. You can choose alcohol, too. This is wine. Sweet potato yokan (Japanese sweet). &quot;Guide to Your Stay&quot; Seems like there are various activities to enjoy during our stay. &gt;&gt; Staff: This is the front desk. &gt;&gt; Staff: From 5:30 pm, we'll have about six types of local sake available. Please enjoy. &gt;&gt; Staff: If you look behind, you'll find the lounge. &gt;&gt; Staff: You can help yourself to tea, coffee, and snacks. &gt;&gt; Staff: There's also beautiful furniture, so please enjoy it with your bar time drink. &gt;&gt; Staff: This is the second lounge. &gt;&gt; Staff: We have coffee and tea, among other things. &gt;&gt; Staff: You can use it with the feel of being in a library. &gt;&gt; Staff: This is our souvenir shop, open from 9:30 AM to 7:00 PM. &gt;&gt; Staff: It has a bright atmosphere. &gt;&gt; Staff: We offer tea, coffee, sweets, and Niigata's unique rice. &gt;&gt; Staff: Antiques are also available. &gt;&gt; Staff: Let's go up to the second floor. &gt;&gt; Staff: Your room 202 is on the same floor as the public hot spring. Thank you. The room type is &quot;Maisonette With Open-air Bath.&quot; It's a two-story room. You can see the snowy landscape from the large window in the back. Private slippers are provided. Pure white. You can't go outside from here, but you can enjoy the beautiful snowy landscape. You can clearly see the mountains. Beautiful. If you look closely, you can see stink bugs on the snow here and there. The balcony has cute chairs and an open-air bath! Shower and shampoo products are also available. The bathwater is from Osawa Mountain Hot Springs. It's a sodium chloride and bicarbonate spring. The water is clear, with a silky feel, good for the skin. There's a small study by the window of the room. A user guide and some books are also provided. This is a stink bug repellent kit. This storage box is cute. Electric kettle, glasses, and a lidded cup. Original blend coffee. On the table are hot spring buns... No, they're rice crackers. Niigata is famous for its rice. The restroom is near the entrance, spacious and clean. Electric towel warmer. It's warm. The wash area offers toothbrushes, cotton buds, and skincare items. There's no handrail on the stairs to the second floor. It might be scary for those with a fear of heights. The second floor is the bedroom area. It has a tatami floor. The ceiling has thick beams, enduring the heavy snowfall every year. There are two semi-double beds. Let's change into the loungewear. There's a minibar in the room corner. The wooden phone is cute. Original coffee and cups, the same as on the first floor. Safety box. You can drink the beverages in the fridge without additional charges. The bottles are water, roasted tea, and original blend herbal tea. Let's toast with mandarin juice and beer. The view from the second floor looks even wider. The terrace has stylish tables and a hanging chair. A small study area. There's also a toilet and washbasin on the second floor. Clean. Towel warmer and toothbrush, etc . Almost the same amenities as on the first floor. Slippers. Soft, fabric ones. The hair dryer is by Salonia. Nice. There's a shower room. Might not use it since there's a hot spring. Bath towels are also available under the stairs. Let's go to the public onsen bath. There are two room keys, so you can carry them separately. &quot;Hot Spring Amanogawa&quot; Separate baths for men and women, but they switch at 10 PM. Dressing room. Nice vibe. There's only one washbasin, but skincare and dryers are provided. Lockers with keys. Indoor bath. Of course, there are showers, and shampoo products are available. And, there's an open-air bath with a stunning view in the back! It's the best. It is the same hot spring as the open-air bath in the room. It feels smooth to the touch. Here's another open-air bath with a rotation system. A perfect, superb snow-viewing hot spring. Truly great. An infinity bath where the edge of the bathtub is invisible. The view and water quality are really attractive. You can soak here forever... This hot spring is a must-try experience at least once in your lifetime. Free ice cream after the bath. Niigata's local ice cream &quot;Momotaro&quot; and frozen oranges. The frozen oranges were too hard to eat without waiting for a while. It's time for dinner. &gt;&gt; Staff: I'll guide you to your seat. Please, this way. A restaurant where you can enjoy unique meals typical of snow country. &gt;&gt; Staff: I'll take you even further back, to a more exciting spot! &gt;&gt; Staff: Here is your seat for today. Please come in. Thank you. &gt;&gt; Staff: Welcome today to Satoyama Jujo and the restaurant &quot;Sanaburi.&quot; &gt;&gt; Staff: Our restaurant is called &quot;Sanaburi&quot;. &gt;&gt; Staff: Let me introduce today's menu. &gt;&gt; Staff: Could you please turn over the first page of the menu in front of you? &gt;&gt; Staff: Our menu is primarily vegetable-focused. But it's not just vegetables. &gt;&gt; Staff: We also have fish and there will be meat at the end. The snowman is cute. &gt;&gt; Staff: This is pure rice sake, exclusive to this region. &gt;&gt; Staff: We've mixed Chinese quince in syrup with soda. &gt;&gt; Staff: It's good for your throat and body. First up, sesame tofu. &gt;&gt; Staff: It's freshly made and homemade. Cheers with Niigata's sake and homemade non-alcoholic juice. Let's eat. It's creamy. There's a small dollop of wasabi on the turnip. A dish made with Niigata Prefecture's soybeans &quot;Satoirazu.&quot; &gt;&gt; Staff: It's made by grinding soybeans and turning them into a paste. It contains mushrooms, adding a nice texture. &gt;&gt; Staff: Please open the lid. &gt;&gt; Staff: Were you surprised by the black content? &gt;&gt; Staff: It's rock seaweed. &gt;&gt; Staff: And on top are the roots of Japanese parsley. &gt;&gt; Staff: At the bottom, there are sardine dumplings. Please enjoy it while it's hot. The seaweed is silky. It has a gentle flavor. A dish with tempeh (Indonesian fermented soybeans). Topped with winter vegetables stored in a snow room. Ah. Crab. &gt;&gt; Staff: Next is something interesting. &gt;&gt; Staff: It's called &quot;kajika,&quot; a river fish. &gt;&gt; Staff: This one is adult-sized. &gt;&gt; Staff: Kajika is caught by plunging hands into the cold river during this season. &gt;&gt; Staff: It's considered a fish for entertaining important guests. Wrap it like a seaweed roll to eat. The Niigata sushi rolls are characterized by having walnuts inside. The rice is cooked in a clay pot right at your table. When it starts bubbling, open the lid once. &gt;&gt; Staff: The reason we open the lid now is for &quot;tenchikaeshi.&quot; &gt;&gt; Staff: It's to mix the rice thoroughly by flipping it over. &gt;&gt; Staff: This prevents the bottom from burning and ensures even heating. &gt;&gt; Staff: We'll close the lid immediately. &gt;&gt; Staff: Now, we'll simmer it gently. About 5 minutes later... &gt;&gt; Staff: Now we stop the fire. The cooking is finished. &gt;&gt; Staff: We're evaporating the moisture. &gt;&gt; Staff: But please try a spoonful right now. &gt;&gt; Staff: At first glance, the rice might seem a bit watery and shiny. &gt;&gt; Staff: It might seem a bit like porridge... but it's different when you eat it. &gt;&gt; Staff: It's very hot. It's al dente. It has sweetness and texture, very good. A dish with a fish called mahata. The flavor makes sake even more enjoyable. Minami Uonuma rice is especially famous in Niigata for its taste. Served with a dish of wild boar meat. Soft and crumbly texture. The rice is sweet and chewy, truly delicious. Once you're used to this, regular rice might not satisfy you anymore. Rice can be refilled. Any leftovers can be made into rice balls for you to take back as a late-night snack. The final dessert. This herbal tea smelled so good and was very tasty. Kiwi and amber sugar. (ASMR). This is sweet bean paste. Though the menu was quite unique compared to typical ryokan meals. Everything was good. Thank you for the meal. The reception table offers free drinks at night. There's plenty of local sake, but I wonder if it's too much... It's hard to decide. Ended up choosing yuzu green tea. Looks good. A Belgian-made wood stove. So warm. A soothing night. We're back. This is what our room looks like at night. You can roam the inn in just socks, a common way to relax at home in Japan. Curious about the outside view. It's nice without unnecessary lights. It's cold outside. Made me realize how warm and cozy it is indoors. Apparently, the building is insulated with the best materials. Getting ready for bed and soon saying goodnight. Good morning. Woke up to it snowing! The heavy snow season is from late January to February. Last year it piled up over four meters. This year has been a warm winter. A snow hut in the making. Now, let's go into the room's open-air bath. It's just the right size for one adult. The source temperature is low, so it's heated and kept warm with a circulation system. Thanks to that, the water temperature is just perfect. Inn's original blend coffee. Enjoying the outside view from the warm comfort of our room. Time for breakfast. Add as many ingredients as you like to the boiling broth. Once the ingredients are warm, turn off the heat and dissolve the miso. Miso soup is done! Breakfast is a Japanese meal full of Niigata vegetables. It tastes gentle on the body, giving a healthy feeling. Good. Pickles are winter survival foods, key to the region's culture. Tottoko eggs. How cute name. A beautiful pale yellow color. We had a choice between white rice and brown rice. It was delicious. Thank you for the meal. Check-out is 11 am, so you can take it slow. Great food, facilities, and service--an excellent stay. Unique Niigata experiences and English-friendly service attract repeat visitors. The total for two was 126,246 yen (839.20 USD / EUR 774.43). Today we're staying at a ryokan with a beautiful open-air bath, only accessible by boat. We will take the Kuroshio Train to Kii-Katsuura Station. It's a Panda Kuroshio that is collaborating with a theme park called Adventure World. Kuroshio train is all reserved seats. Tickets can be purchased online or at the ticket window. Let's go~~! Today's travel is also a honeymoon. I'm so excited! It's time for lunch. Eki-Ben! Panda Kuroshio Bento: 600 yen (4.52 USD / EUR 4.20). Sasamochi, omelet, spaghetti and panda rice ball. Cute! I like Octopus weenies. Leaf Wasabi and Tai Sushi: 1,296 yen (9.83 USD / EUR 9.07). The bottom two are Thai sushi. The top four are mackerel and salmon sushi wrapped in leaf wasabi. Oyama cutlet sandwich: 780 yen (5.92 USD / EUR 5.54). I will have a fight with my husband because I have an odd number of cutlets. It takes about 4 hours from Shin-Osaka Station to Kii-Katsuura Station. It's a long trip. Wow, the sea came into view. It is clear and very beautiful. We've arrived at Kii-Katsuura Station. It's lovely weather today. Kii-Katsuura is famous for the world heritage waterfall &quot;Nachi Falls&quot;. We have time until check-in, so let's stop by there. It takes about 30 minutes to get to the bus stop &quot;Nachi no Takimae&quot; by Kumano Gobo Nankai Bus. The bus fare is 630 yen (4.79 USD / EUR 4.47) per person one way. We've arrived at Nachi Falls. It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and is Japan's tallest waterfall. Wow, it's big and beautiful! This photo of the waterfall with the three-storied pagoda is so famous. Oh, it's a rainbow!! We came back to Kii-Katsuura station. Let's head to the ryokan. The ryokan can only be reached by boat. The boat dock is a 5-minute walk from the station. Tuna fishing is popular in this area, and tuna sashimi and tuna rice bowls are one of the local dishes. We arrived at the boat dock. We will check in here. The staff will carry your baggage. Thank you. There are one to four boats an hour. You can board the boat for free without a reservation. I think about 20 people can get on board. It takes about 5 minutes by boat to the ryokan. Oh, you can see the ryokan now. It's a ryokan built on a small island called &quot;Nakanoshima&quot; with an area of approximately 68,000 square meters. It is the only ryokan on the island. It started business around 1935 and reopened in 2019. Front desk. The souvenir shops and lounge are located nearby. All you can drink and eat coffee, tea, and snacks. I got the plum chocolate crunch. The accommodation fee was 169,700 yen (1,288.4 USD / EUR 1,204.9) for two including breakfast and dinner. We splurged to celebrate our marriage and 140,000 subscribers. The staff guides us to the room. This is a lounge called Glass Float Terrace. &gt;&gt; Staff: It's a drinking fountain. &gt;&gt; Staff: Natural water and Japanese herbal tea. &gt;&gt; Staff: From 3pm to 6pm we serve canned beer. &gt;&gt; Staff: Popsicles. &gt;&gt; Staff: Everything is free. Please help yourselves. &gt;&gt; Staff: This is a model of this ryokan. &gt;&gt; Staff: This is the restaurant for dinner and breakfast. Today's room is on the 4th floor. All rooms at this ryokan have an ocean view. Our room is the largest room. &gt;&gt; Staff: Your room is room 400. Please enjoy your stay. Now, let's take a room tour. Take off your shoes. It is a Japanese-style tatami room of 4.5 tatami mats. If you go to the back, it is a Japanese-style living room of 10 tatami mats. It's so lovely. Table and floor chair (zaisu). Green tea and tuna crackers. It's thin and easy to eat. It was good. TV and phone. There is nothing on the shelf door. Beautiful hanging scroll (kakejiku). Japanese style dresser. Massage chair and a small dining space. The room is very spacious but the air conditioning and air purifier work well. Western style living room and bedroom. They gave us a surprise present to celebrate our marriage!!! It's beautiful!! Thank you very much!! This room has a private open-air bath (onsen). Wow, it's hot. The sea is in front of you!! Huh? Dolphin?! The veranda is spacious. There is a table and chairs. Beautiful!! You can also reserve the entire island and the entire ryokan, by the way. Bath towels and bathing suits are in the room. Since ships sometimes pass by, this bathing suit is worn when entering the open-air bath. Cute whale patch. There is another TV. Cups and glasses. Electric kettle. Water is free. Coffee. Darjeeling tea. Roasted rice tea. Green tea. Small refrigerator. Closet. There are two 120 cm (47 in) wide beds in the bedroom. The bath, washroom, and restroom are over here. Washbasin with large mirror. It's not new, but it's clean. Amenities are of course free to use. Cleansing oil. Head band. Hairbrush. Razor. Shower cap. Cotton pads and swabs. Toothbrush. Cleansing oil, lotion, milky lotion, hand soap and face wash. Hair dryer made by Dyson. Nice. Restroom. It's clean. There is a bath in front of the restroom. We will not use it today as we will take other baths. Shampoo etc. are available. It's about time to take a bath. Yukata, Samue (lounge wear), and tabi are in the closet of the tatami room. Samue is a Japanese-style two-piece loungewear. We like yukata, so let's change into yukata. If you have long hair, tie your hair up to keep it from touching the water in the onsen. Onsen contain sulfur and sodium. It is recommended to remove rings, etc., as they may discolor. The whale key is cute. This ryokan has a public bath and an open-air bath with an ocean view. Recording videos is not allowed in the public bath. But, we got permission to shoot before the bath opened. Please take a look at the video taken during the daytime. This is the dressing room. There are lockers with keys and rest space. Amenities such as hair dryers, hairbrushes and skin care products are available. There is also a facial steamer. Awesome! Towels and bathing suits. You can take a bath as many times as you like during your stay. It's &quot;Shampoo Bar&quot;. You can choose your favorite shampoo and conditioner from 5 types. My favorite was the green tea shampoo. OK, this is the large public bath! You can see the sea! It's spacious and beautiful! Because it is a natural hot spring, it smells of sulfur. Shower booths have shampoo, cleansing oil, and face wash. You can go to an open-air bath from this door. The onsen water at this ryokan are characterized by their high moisturizing power and freshness, which is good for skin and neuralgia. Wow, how beautiful!!! There are two floors of open-air baths, and you can soak in the hot springs while lying down on the second floor. At night, beautiful starry skies can be seen. There is also a cave-like bath in the open-air bath on the first floor. The best onsen I've ever had in my life. It was very nice!!! Let's eat free popsicles after taking a bath. What flavor do you like? Cheers! It's time for dinner. It is a kaiseki (traditional Japanese multiple course meal) restaurant. I heard that the dishes are made with local ingredients, so I'm so excited! Appetizer. Ankimo (Monkfish liver) Tofu. Vegetables wrapped in tuna. We ordered drinks. Japanese Sake Taiheiyo: 1,100 yen (8.59 USD / EUR 7.92). Ginger ale: 900 yen (7.03 USD / EUR 6.48). Sashimi. &gt;&gt; Staff: Here is tuna from Katsuura, and Shima-Aji (striped jack) in season now. &gt;&gt; Staff: Please enjoy it with fresh wasabi if you like. &gt;&gt; Staff: Here is whale tail. &gt;&gt; Staff: Let me set the pot on fire. &gt;&gt; Staff: I'll come back to remove the lid later. Cheers! The fish are so fresh and delicious! &gt;&gt; Staff: The Japanese dashi broth in the pot warmed up. &gt;&gt; Staff: Put the Kue fish (grouper) in the pot. Enjoy. The fish is tender and very good. It warms our body. &gt;&gt; Staff: Here is Abalone in yuzu. &gt;&gt; Staff: Steamed abalone, turnip and ginkgo nuts are inside the yuzu. The main dish has arrived! &gt;&gt; Staff: Here is thinly sliced sauteed Japanese black Wagyu. &gt;&gt; Staff: The sauce is sukiyaki flavor. Please put egg yolk on it, as you like. The meat is so tender! &gt;&gt; Staff: Here is minced grouper and marinaded tuna rice bowl. &gt;&gt; Staff: and here is seaweed and yuba soup Finally, sweets. &gt;&gt; Staff: Here is milk pudding and strawberry. Everything was good!! Thank you for the delicious meal!! We went back to our room. Let's take an open-air bath in the room. Awesome...This is the best day ever. Phew, it's about time to sleep. Good night. Good morning. We will have a hot green tea. It's a beautiful morning. There is a mountain promenade on the roof. Let's go on a walk. I heard that there is a footbath on the way and that you can see the sea from the top of the mountain. The promenade is 450m long. It's a mountain road. &quot;It's 360m to the observatory&quot;. &quot;It's 240m to the observatory&quot;. I'm getting tired. Wow, the sunrise is beautiful!! It's 110 meters to the observatory. There is a footbath. The bath is pretty big. Let's take a short break. It's hot and feels good! How nice. It feels like we own the world. haha. Just a little more to the observatory! Wow, we' just arrived at the observatory. It's breathtakingly beautiful. Now, let's return to the ryokan. It's time for breakfast. It looks delicious! Hijiki, tofu, shirasu and so on. Japanese Omelet. Steamed egg custard. Hot pot. Grilled fish. Bread, fruits, drinks, all you can eat, all you can drink. You can also enjoy all-you-can-eat tuna sashimi and umeboshi, which are local specialties. And there are also salads. You can see the sea outside the window. Everything was delicious. We are stuffed. Thank you for the meal!! We had a lovely time. The food is delicious, the staff are polite, and the hot springs are the best. This is a special onsen ryokan! If you have a chance to go to Wakayama Prefecture, please check it out. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to our channel! And if you like it, please thumbs up. See you next time.