Many American offices are New numbers showing office space in all-time record. Huge investors like are staring down defaults portfolios. Meanwhile, apartment can feel lot of mayors talking. We have a great mix of uses in the Make it easier to convert housing. So the thing about office is it sounds like a great Nobody's going to the housing supply. Why not buildings into simple as it sounds. Not every office building conversion. Not every Not every building should In some cities, the laws difficult. It was about 3% of the New being convertible. And differential of price apartments, which has not as people may think. But in places that have a buildings, there's a lot happening. Some big cities are developers who convert Nobody does things in the the goodness of their ways to either require or to happen. What's stopping cities offices into apartments? And what challenges do taking on these massive The office conversion small group of cities led and Philadelphia. We are right now in the Philadelphia. The approximately 100 years manufacturing space for it was a giant department This building is one of conducted by the Post Physically, may have had people might think would conversion. For instance, long. That means lots of dark The first consideration buildings is about access That's why you see in creative redevelopment of people are driving a core building to allow for middle. We took a building that carved it into an E. It's extremely It's expensive. You also have issues of lines run and it sounds have a bathroom in every one. And if you only have or a single area of about the offices. The part. It's going to be convert that. Builders call this it comes in different The Poplar in light touch. We have units that are the typical 25ft to 30ft We're able to make them are called borrowed light bedrooms with a light and layouts, even though the ideal. Converted apartments tend other real estate in the In a hot market where for housing and a lot of San Francisco, that potentially address maybe That still leaves the clearly a need to think going to build more Back in Philadelphia, the enough to afford about At the Poplar, single $2,000 a month. Then there are projects units can rent for $3,000 It was a 1920s Beaux Arts We finished the There, for instance, we modifications. As an office building, it that took up basically When we're making those modifications, it's to quality amenities. The Post Brothers' buildings in the for expansion. We're generally 96% and there might be 1 or 2 downtime between the old That's what we call So that's really the only There's a very different districts. Office vacancy rates are terms of historical we ever recorded, and rate on average. And that was a really New York's hovering That's a bad sign for Some of the office REIT hammered down over 50% back-to-work, which is might have expected. How the streets feel in lot in the past three Not all of those changes It is necessary for that perception. Though many offices are completely empty. That's developers. I think the actual vacancy is really the single most conversion, much more so physical layout, the systems or anything like clear path to emptying really can't be converted When a developer looks for they're looking for For example, older better conversions, but office is newer, bigger be converted yet. These are massive We have millions of square spaces that is right now housing. This just makes Office vacancies also finances. New York City $6 billion in taxes each School districts will tend property taxes. The Transit Authorities tend to rely a little bit New York has experimented the past. In the years wave of these projects Manhattan. We looked historically at number of conversions we that did happen in New of them. And it turned conversions per year. Well, there's no question Manhattan help to spur the city. And the result The residential That created tens of really turned the battery into a residential The government's policies not these projects commercial buildings space than residential That condition and many financial outlook of a So the number one issue in Washington, D.C., for of very technocratically you can effectively building by right to that's very much not the And unfortunately in New dictated at the state level. So there's been a York trying to get this people paying attention This is what it takes to People are reading paper to actually get If we have zoning rules which are keeping housing shame on us. Especially when you are suffering in New York In Philadelphia, a ten more development saved home renovators and billion in taxes. But just over half of owners of high value If it was a conversion, on the value of the shell any of the money you put So that's been hugely Post Brothers has two works in D.C., where the wants to increase tax developers. That's Washington, I think easier markets. When you look at, for markets, San Francisco person of any country. Office buildings were valued north of Four years ago, it had rents in the country We don't think San anywhere or there will be downtown San Francisco. Critics of these policies developer handouts. Supporters hope the calm the housing markets The U.S. needs about 7 homes at affordable price low-income renters. The vast majority of receive housing any. The scale of the than the resources that level are prepared to You know, there's 500,000 in New York by 2030. In order to remain kind supply and demand, we per year going up to well short of that And it's important that we for the sake of our and for the opportunity But we do project that could create 10,000 to and that is our best But also we recognize to factors, will relate outside our control. Questions like interest individual property building layout. So we know that there's Our rules are in the way