(Female customer) It's the best! Tokushima, Japan This time, we will be following a ramen restaurant that is extremely popular with the locals Chinese noodles Tamura The sophisticated, simple and modern exterior sets it apart from other ramen shops. The owner's father has arrived Mr. Tuginobu Tamura After retiring, he has continued to help his son (Director) What are you doing? (Father) This is the soup stock until the other staff arrive for work He takes the pork for the chashu out of the freezer and takes it out of the bag one by one The pork used for making chashu We will be preparing a total of 6 pieces here We'll preheat the oven. We'll cut it in half. We'll bake it slowly in the preheated oven. (Father) We'll bake this and put it in the soup. Director) What kind of string is this? Father) This is the string we use to roll the chashu we're grilling now I use it to roll the chashu when it's cooked. I let it cool down. The egg supplier has delivered boiled and raw eggs. (Supplier) I'm sorry, please come again! Director) Are you an egg merchant?? Supplier) We handle both raw eggs and processed products Director) How long have you been working together? (Supplier) I think it's been about 10 years. The boiled and raw eggs that have arrived We will roll the grilled pork Tie it up with the kite string you prepared earlier Wrap the rolled-up pork in cling film and store it We'll also roll up the remaining pork belly. We'll do this delicate work without turning on the air conditioning. We also check the soup stock from time to time. The staff have arrived for work. We're preparing the soup. (Director) What's this? (Staff) This is the soup we'll be adding later. Mr. Tamura's soup is made using the latest equipment The two of them work together to coordinate the preparation process reheating the soup While the soup is reheating The pork belly is a very popular topping The Chinese soba noodles at Tamura It is the ultimate Chinese soba that captivates one visitor after another who comes to the shop. Director) How many kilos of pork belly do you prepare? (Staff) A day? One pack is about 4kg. Director) Four kilos per pack? Staff) Even if you put all four packs in, it's only about 20 kilos The cut pork belly The shopkeeper has arrived. Mr. Tamura's mother has also arrived His mother is in charge of the main cleaning of the store The pork The rice is cook. (Director) How much do you cook the rice for? (Staff) We cook the rice for No. 24 first thing in the morning. We'll keep cooking from here on. That's quite a lot. lol (Director) Do you always do this in this heat? (Father) It's something we do every day It's especially hot this year. It's getting hectic as we get ready to open. The cleaning is finished. (Mother) This is mirin soy sauce We're going to add the pork belly we just cut up Let the flavor soak in well. Transfer the flavored pork to a bowl. Let the meat cool down and drain off any excess liquid. Before we knew it, the kitchen was After the pork belly chashu has cooled down, Preparation of Soup The stewed soup is strained. The chashu for the pork rice is cut up. The carefully made pork is Noodle supplier has arrived The soup, which has been simmering for a long time, is now complete The stockpot used to make the soup is carefully washed. With the pot now clean, Preparation of Tomorrow's Char siu and Soup (Director) By the way, what kind of meat is this? (Staff) It's pig's feet. chicken bones (Staff) We're marinating the chashu. This isn't just soup. In preparing the chashu we stew the chashu (With soup) Simmer until night (Mr. Tamura) This is the soy sauce We'll add the garlic now. Director) So the soup is ready? Mr. Tamura) Yes, the morning preparations are done for now. All the staff will clean up carefully. After preparing for today, all the staff Bon appetit! It seems that Tamura-san's mother The meal for that day was meat and potato stew and Bitter melon salad Everyone eats in their own place. (Father) That's all of it. My work is done. Director) What did you do before? Father) I was a civil servant. Director) How did you get involved in helping out? Father) When I reached retirement age My son said he wanted to run the shop. (Director) How is your son? He's working really hard, so We had no choice but to lend a hand. (Director) Your mother is helping out too, isn't she? (Mother) Yes. I get up at 5 in the morning to make them. I think there are four staff members today. Thank you for your hard work. Once Mr.Tamura father and mother have left, we can finally open the store! (Director) How did you like your mother's meat and potato stew? (Staff) It was delicious! The store opens at 11:00 These T-shirts and stickers Menu The store was already full of customers who had been waiting in line since before it opened. We'll be making five different types of ramen at the same time. We'll start by boiling the bean sprouts. The chashu slices are reheated The pork ribs are also prepared in the same way. This stainless steel bowl The noodles are boiled Pour the soup into the bowl. Add the noodles to the soup. Bean sprouts pickled bamboo shoots chashu, add the pork belly (Staff) Thank you for waiting. This is a large serving of miso. This is the large miso ramen. This is the Szechuan peppercorn. Miso ramen (large) Chinese soba noodles with meat and raw egg topping (large) One after another, the ramen is completed Tamura's Chinese soba is said to go well with rice The ramen is being made without stopping (Staff) Small bonito Chinese soba (small) Chinese noodles with roast pork (small) Seafood noodles bonito (small) (Female customer) The ramen with bonito and dried sardines is delicious alternately (I'll order) Today I'll have the bonito (Male customer) The soup is delicious after all Male customer 2) The chashu is delicious too. Female customer) The chashu is delicious. Female customer) It's the best Even when there is no staff in the kitchen, Mr. Tamura does everything (Staff) Thank you very much! Director) The taste is the same as always Male customer 2) It was delicious (Male customer) I love the mild flavor, not too spicy. We're open for business, but we'll also be preparing the soup and chashu for tomorrow at the same time. the chashu that Mr. Tamura's father prepared earlier. By cooking it for a long time with the soup, (Staff) Once you've added the chashu, After that, the machine does everything for you It's smart I'll add some back fat too Director) What did you just put in? (Staff) That's the back fat. Dried shiitake mushrooms, kelp Once you've added the ingredients, simmer overnight Making Chinese noodles with char siu (large) Chinese noodles, large chashu With an amazing turnover rate Mr. Tamura's classmate came in At first he came with his wife but after the birth of their child (I've known Mr. Tamura since) It's not really a second branch, It was a little further over there before. It's moved over here. (Female customer) I don't remember. (Staff) This is a small of Chinese noodles Large rice. One (please). (Director) What did you order? (Male customer) I ordered a garlic topping small Female customer) I ordered a small topping of powdered cheese. Male customer) I'll have it Director) Is this your usual Female customer) It's my first time. Director) How is it? It's delicious! Making Chinese noodles with meat + char siu (large) Staff) (For the toppings) Both are raw eggs. (Male customer) It's beef chashu small. And it's topped with a raw egg. Plus, it's topped with corn. Director) Is there any difference in the sauce? It's the difference between the soy sauce sauce and the salt sauce In addition to the soy sauce-based Chinese soba noodles,there are also salt-based shio soba and seafood-based kaisen soba in Tamura Making Seafood soba (small) bonito The soup is getting low, so (Director) How was the taste today? (Male customer) It was delicious! Male customer) It's hot, but it's great! Director) Are you classmates from high school? Male customer) Yes, we were classmates in high school. We were classmates. You're so kind. I used to be called "Yocchan, Yocchan" He was very popular. The shop has become very beautiful. I'll be back. (Female customer) I'll be back! Buta meshi (Director) Do you always order (buta meshi)? (Male customer) Yes, I do. Director) What are you eating? Child) Ramen! I love ramen! Director) What brought you here today? I was too lazy to cook, so Director) Who said we should go to a restaurant? Male customer) My son said he wanted to come here I came here today The younger one said he liked it. Director) You're a great big brother! Director) Did your brother say he wanted to come to this restaurant today? (Child) This place is delicious (Director) Delicious? (Male customer) You like ramen, don't you? (Child) I love ramen! (Male customer) This is a big serving of meat! It's really delicious! Director) Do you often come to this restaurant? Male customer) This is my first time here. Male customer) I'm from Kochi Prefecture. Director) You're from Kochi Prefecture? Director) Why did you come to this shop? (Male customer) I looked it up on my cell phone I came to try it out a bit Director) How is it? What do you think? It's huge, isn't it? It's delicious. (Male customer) In Kochi Prefecture Tasting time Staff) Large pork belly chashu Tasting food a Ramen with extra meat and char siu(large) Tasting 1: Chinese soba with pork belly and large chashu The oil from the two types of chashu shines. The chashu that has been stewed with the soup The pork belly, which has been seasoned well, When you mix it with egg yolk, it has a mild flavor Tasting food a Pork rice Pork rice (Butameshi)(large) Tasting food a Dan Dan Noodles (Mr. Tamura) It's a flavored oil. It has nearly 20 ingredients in it. It's made with ground nuts Tasting 3: Dan dan noodles (small) (limited time offer) This is a limited-time ramen Director) Who designed the T-shirts? We asked a designer from Tokushima (Director) Is there a concept? Cars, surfing and ramen (Director) For you, Mr. Tamura It's a happy place. It's a place I'm grateful for. It's a place I've put my life into. There are customers and staff so it's a place that we're very grateful for "Chinese Soba Tamura"