- There's no question the of moment in popular culture. You know, Marvel movies &quot;Doctor Strange in the various Spider-Man movies, and &quot;Everything Everywhere All At Once.&quot; You might think it's the fault of physics because physicists have been for a few decades now, both in cosmology and quantum as often happens in you ignore what the scientists say, and you do your own kind of thing. The kind of multiverse that is being used in Hollywood is more like of the set of all possible worlds. It's clear why this would because we've all made decisions. We've all wondered what life would be like if they were a little bit different: if an election had gone a different way, if our team had gone a different way, if we had not gotten hurt, if we had asked that and this sort of makes us think, well, maybe we're in the wrong universe, we're in the wrong timeline. There's another world out there, that's the one I wanna be in. Now science comes along- physics my own field- and says, &quot;You know, it's possible, there literally are other places where things are different.&quot; But there's different ways in which science can lead us I'm Sean Carroll, I'm and philosopher at Johns and I'm the author of &quot;The Biggest Ideas in the I think it's really important physicists' versions of physicists never start out by saying, &quot;Hey, wouldn't it be cool It is always the place they're dragged to kicking and screaming because they're trying to You know, a big criticism is that you can't observe the multiverse, you can't falsify it, But what you can do is And what you want to do as a scientist is come up with a theory- which is kind of a story- a theory that accounts for what we see, for the data that we can have access to. And some theories, some very, very simple, very like the inflationary theory of cosmology or the many world's theory they both explain what and unambiguously predict the In cosmology, which is up until recently, there's of our universe that are so far away, where conditions can They can either be kind of like us, but with different details or even different laws of physics, different particles and There's an entirely different conception called 'The Many Worlds which is both in some sense more realistic and easy to bring into reality, It just says whenever you have which, spoiler alert, all at heart, but whenever you you can get different This is something we've The question is: What happens to the alternative that you didn't observe? So if you have a particle, like an electron, and you're or its spin or something like that, the equations will tell you that certain outcomes are possible, certain outcomes are not. An electron is never They have different literally never happen. But either clockwise or counterclockwise, and the Many-World's version of those will generically come So this is literally a parallel universe. This isn't someplace very, very far away. This is a simultaneously existing of a quantum mechanical differently to ours-and in the world depend on the you could wind up in a very Human beings love to put themselves at the center of every story, so when you start talking and different ways things could have gone, they instantly start thinking: &quot;Oh, if I had made a different decision, things would've turned out differently.&quot; And that's fine if you're and thinking about the space of all possible ways the But if you're thinking like a physicist, you solve the equations. It has literally nothing to do with human beings making decisions. If you think about the the other universes are literally billions of light years away. They have nothing to do with you and your choices throughout the day. The quantum mechanics of a different story because it does happen sort of everywhere. There's things going on that but the things that are going on are not human beings making decisions. There's subatomic particles being measured in some quantum mechanical way. If anything, it's the quantum measurements that force you to make a forcing different universes After all, you are a body made of a whole bunch of quantum electrons and protons and neutrons. If you choose to describe there are different versions So then you have to ask: &quot;Well, if I could have seen the or counterclockwise, and I saw what is my relationship to the person who saw Are they me just in a different universe or are they they a separate person?&quot; I think the clear answer here is there's a relationship, but It's very much like identical twins- you have one fertilized egg a single cell that is one but it splits into two different people. I think that's how we should of ourselves in the multiverse. They might share a past, once they're in a universe of their own, they're now separate people. It's not weird or it's just a slightly more of our notion of personal identity I absolutely believe we can imagine thinking about the multiverse as a useful psychological tool Visualization exercises for a long time, and so when we physically in different set of circumstances, we think about that and the multiverse is sort and maybe, you can argue, is making that more possible. We see other lives in a more vivid way than maybe we used to with alternate ways of thinking about ourselves, just wearing a headset in Apparently, there's a whole which is not actually pornography, it's just getting kicks you can't afford on Zillow, and imagining what it would We're sort of peeking that didn't come true. These could be both positive and negative psychological tools. We use them in the right way by imagining the way things and then saying, &quot;Okay, what do I need to that next time it But it's psychologically not because there are some This is why we talked about the ability to recognize what and accept the things that we can't as well as to be able You can imagine in a all sorts of different decisions, but in fact, there's no such thing as time travel in the real world. You cannot actually go back and remake the decisions differently. It's fine to imagine all but at the end of the day, we have to live and affect I like to think-maybe I'm more than a human being- but I like to think that by contemplating all of these different possibilities- past, present, and future- we can put things in perspective. We can think about how, &quot;Yeah, there was that moment when things went terribly wrong. Either maybe I did something wrong, or there was an unforeseen event that I couldn't have controlled. But you know what? The causal influence I have on the world only extends toward the future. The choices I can make right that I will feel down the road, but I cannot make a choice what happened in the past.&quot; I think this is a truth and the world, and psychologically, it's a very important