(music throughout) Europa is is a big target for NASA's exploration that there is some subsurface, we took the data from Europa few weeks ago it was like ten days ago. So the data just came back and it actually became public immediately the moment we saw it. And, you know, we got these email alerts the data is there. And then you go to the data and it looks like very tricky And so you spend nights everybody's working. Oh, what is there, And now today we didn't know I was there and now today we didn't know should we wait for the paper And then we said, look, Let's tease people also, This these people also maybe astrobiologically relevant or habitable Jupiter's the largest planet in the solar system. And if people have they might think of it with this great And the planet, Earth, could easily fit inside In fact, you could fit two Earth's So it's a much, much larger and it's a fundamentally different We call it a gas giant, all you see is swirling gases. And if you could strip away like by magic underneath it, And if you took away those gases It doesn't have a solid surface It's all atmosphere until you get like deep, deep, deep Galileo actually looked at Jupiter with his small telescope that there were tiny dots that seemed to be orbiting Jupiter. And this was the discovery which today we call the Galilean moons. And that was really crucial at that time we had evidence that our earth was not Here was a system Jupiter was the center of that system. So when Galileo first discovered we didn't know anything about them. We just saw going around pretty fast around Jupiter. But then we were lucky to have One first with Voyager. Scientists at Cape unmanned Voyager spacecraft It lifted off flawlessly at 8:56 a.m. This Voyager presumably will get Dr. Smith, can you offer yet any kind of a historical scenario Why they're there? No, Rick, I cannot. I'm sorry. No, I think we really we've had these pictures in hand And I think we really don't begin these these features It's it was no surprise Europa looks very different And they had remarkable surprises And we got some very nice pictures in late and last night of the inner which I'd like to share with you. And it looks very unlike any of the other we're seeing and also quite For instance, irregular or circular shape What you see is more or less and then these rather sharp that are sort of reminiscent of fracture And these are big features. They may be between 50 and 150 kilometers And liftoff of Atlantis with the Galileo spacecraft bound for Jupiter So years later, it was a spacecraft that was put into orbit around Jupiter The spacecraft is stable Galileo is on its way to another world. It's in the hands of the best flight controllers in this world. Fly safe. And this was the challenge spacecraft didn't open. Galileo interplanetary project ever. We had the spacecraft It was so far away We had an antenna failure. We had the tape recorder all throughout We had one adversity after another. And so they had to use one of the small antennas But even so, it had new instrumentation, at infrared wavelengths So it revealed a lot of new details about when the first image it taken from Galileo of the surface of Europa. First of all, but you also see these veins below this crust of ice, There is a subsurface ocean. Good afternoon. My name is Dwayne Brown And welcome to NASA headquarters. Today's science update will feature concerning Jupiter's icy moon Europa. In fact, what you will hear today opens up compelling possibilities in the search for life The Galileo orbiter in the late 1990s of an ocean underneath It did this using a technique that is somewhat similar For example, at a beach electrically conductive with salt in it is quite electrically So Jupiter is five times farther And so we are just so surprised from our host star Find a world like Europa that's able That's not something that we expected We're able to again maintain that ocean because of Jupiter's gravitational But this is something It's really special that is so far away I think Europa is one of the most because it probably has more liquid water And when we think about the possibility the possibility of life elsewhere in the So Europa is a super exciting place to me Jupiter's is a big planet, so it easily holds in check And frankly, because new ones are discovered Maybe it's 60, 70, 80, 90. I don't even know anymore But the major moons, Callisto, Europa, those moons are big. They're worlds in their own right. And because they're large, they interact with one another And that means sort of like for two times The other one does three times around. And then they line up there's extra gravitational pull on them because of the moons and because and that tidal pumping We know warms up the interior. You have what should be ice small moons actually turning into melted We are now less than a minute away So once the mission was nearly done, once of maneuvering fuel just to be safe and potential really contaminating the spacecraft was redirected into its component atoms, flight operations. The final moment of a great mission, Galileo was gone. We sacrificed Galileo to save Europa, Atlantis, Houston. Most interesting to us to understand has been the incredible more than 30 years Houston, Atlantis. Hubble has arrived on board Atlantis Atlantis, Houston we copy. Nice job, Megan. Nice job on the prox-ops It's great to be back with telescope. Hubble isn't just a satellite, it's about humanity's I want to wish Hubble And with the new instruments further mysteries of the universe. We have been studying Jupiter regularly for decades slightly different instrumentation, And that has allowed us to Great red spot has actually been steadily We could see that in the Hubble images And so the need to continue observing until we get a new mission there. That has only intensified over the years. (intercut audio of launch commentary) And we have engine start And liftoff Decollage, liftoff from a tropical rainforest to the edge of time itself James Webb begins a voyage Well, because when we started off, That was impossibly And we have a fully deployed JWST Observatory. (applause) Well, my dream when I wrote a proposal to NASA to use Space Telescope to study it would be a broad program to use this telescope That was a dream. What's so exciting We do now have all these observations from the near Earth asteroids of our solar system, They just surpassed my expectations So it's a really exciting time using JWST. We have sent a lot of spacecraft We orbited Jupiter with Galileo We currently have an orbiter So you might wonder, like, that we haven't seen The answer is with a new facility you actually can sense different altitudes with the cameras on the spacecraft that were there in the past And by looking at the different altitudes, When we think about the ringed planet think about Saturn. But who else you think has rings and this is Jupiter, So with James Webb what we did, in incredible contrast to actually map And you can see here this beautiful image of Jupiter, but you can also see this tenuous ring This is like a small debris of the moons and makes a little ring Webb because it has this dramatic contrast You can map certain colors and it being a big telescope you can actually achieve When I am anticipating I have some ideas in my head, you know, I know we're going to see some spectra. But the real excitement is we don't know because the sensitivity Space Telescope and the spectral Europa probably has, beneath its icy surface a global ocean of water everywhere on earth, So we want to understand could Europa be a place where life might exist today? Does it have the ingredients The ocean is so meaningful and it brings such a sense of massiveness. And I think once we get to Europa, ocean, it's not quite the same as we think of oceans But we also need to step back with an ocean And to be able to think about that just like on the earth and also how that then will tell us in our solar system or other bodies The question of plumes on Europa The Hubble Space Telescope in the ultraviolet emission and hydrogen And they're thinking, well, And so probably evidence but it wasn't there sometimes it was there, And so controversial, and the Galileo also hinted that there was some kind of potential activity But again, it wasn't definitive. Europa was a key target for us with JWST to look to see if we could see a plume We did not see a plume at Europa with JWST We saw other interesting things, Does that mean it's not there? Maybe, maybe not. Maybe this plume is episodic. Maybe there's only certain configurations So I first got excited about using JWST when I was a grad student at Caltech. It hadn't launched yet. It wasn't available yet, We were really interested which you just cannot access JWST gives us access that we can't access So there were two independent teams JWST observation of Europa, and so we I think it was right after Thanksgiving. I was actually at my parents house making stuffing and carving the turkey I was looking at these data and and turns out that it was. So it was very exciting. The significance of this carbon result what actually is probably within Europa's And that's the main idea where the carbon was stored. And if there's a carbon source on Europa, people think as a as an astronomer that you spend your life, especially your nights outside I guess they think you have one I don't know. But when you're using a tiny piece of time, maybe 2 hours for the year. That's not a lot of time. And so there's a lot of questions when you only have tiny snapshots. That's the data that you get It'll take a lot more observations until we get spacecraft So Europa Clipper is NASA's It has everything on there as far as instrumentation and to figure out what's going on there what's going on in the interior. And my role on Europa Clipper is as a team And so that's the camera team. And so what we're going to do images of Europa surface and we are also going to look for the Hubble Space Telescope has observed So it's really full circle going of the Hubble Space Telescope So we're very excited in October 2024 is going to launch from Cape Canaveral. It's going to be on its The fractures on Europa, some And if you look at a picture of Europa surface, I mean, these are not just small These are fractures that would put So these are just massive fractures. And again, many of them form because of the gravitational pull So that just shows you how powerful it is in Europa. So we have organics, Three of the necessary So Europa looks like a good place So now that we know we can go deeper with Europa Clipper and more observations, We are allowed to see or ammonia, which is an antifreeze. So we now are looking for more compounds. We can learn about the chemical diversity that help with the habitability We were so honored that the national poet Ada Limon wrote a poem arching under the night sky inky with black expansiveness. We point to the planets we know we pin quick wishes on stars. From Earth, we read the sky of the universe, expert and evident. Still, there are mysteries below our sky the Whale song The Songbird singing. It's called In the Bough of a Wind We are creatures of constant awe. Curious at beauty at leaf and blossom at grief and pleasure, sun and shadow. And it is not darkness that unites us, not the cold distance of space, but the offering of water. Each drop of rain, each rivulet, each pulse, each vein Oh, second moon We too are made of water. of vast and beckoning seas. We too are made of wonders of great and ordinary loves of small, invisible worlds, of a need to call out through the dark. The collaborative experience of being on You have scientists who are, you know, were actually on, you know, team And so they have this vast And any question, just about any question And so it's so amazing. But then you have those of us was at Europa who were in middle school And so just the mesh of the folks from the Galileo era, Galileo mission era, and kind of coming in but also having our own ideas, My first experience with science. At first I really I didn't really or junior high school, as people call it, and I took a very, And so at that point I wanted to have some sort of job I wanted to be a marine biologist And that's the track And then my junior year in high school, I took an Earth science course And so we learned about the life and they can go supernova And I was hooked. And I could not believe that people actually got paid to study things And along the way, I spent a summer Physics Lab studying Europa and completely And I really fell in love with Europa. So we have all these missions to explore these moons in detail, What are we going to find these moons. One day maybe send humans People have thought about, you know, Of course, on Europa there's no sunlight you know, for photosynthesis in the ocean. So it has to be life that's independent The most analogous environment is probably So places where seawater is interacting 2023 has been an amazing year for JWST. It has seen so much science and into papers So what an exciting time who's been waiting This is the year