Last month, Evergreen State College when a professor of evolutionary biology named when white students and faculty Weinstein branded it a form of racial segregation. A group of student protesters called him a racist. The confrontation incited further protests, debates over free speech, and claims And things haven't calmed down. Tomorrow, Evergreen will hold its graduation... at an off-campus location... 40 miles away. -- This is the video, viewed by millions, that put Evergreen State and Weinstein -- "This is not a discussion--you have lost that one." -- Yeah, "you've lost that one." -- So what are they doing here -- Well, this is part-and-parcel of their central note-- they're just shutting down somebody -- Weinstein has taught at Evergreen State for 14 years. He describes himself as "deeply progressive," but has been denounced as racist tool of -- Weinstein objected to the Day of Absence arguing that, quote, "one's right to speak, Calls for his resignation followed. -- By virtue of the way they constructed this, you were making a statement by being And I feel like I am an ally to people of -- Do you have a sense at this point -- Well, they think that I'm a racist. Because if you stand up against one of these that you will be branded as a racist. -- We just wanted to be like, until you're accountable for these actions, You don't get to spread this problematic -- So at this point, we would like Bret to be fired. But that isn't happening. The administration is refusing to take action. They're choosing to protect this white -- Later that day, the students held a raucous meeting at including the disarming of campus police and It's the one point on which Evergreen's embattled President, -- I think their concerns are legitimate. They're articulating ideas that have to do and we're taking a look at them. -- People were criticizing you for using hand gestures. -- Absolutely. They were. -- That seems crazy to people -- It may, but it's noise. -- But the noise has been effective. -- I mean, it essentially sounded -- If you were gonna go to the bathroom, Is that true? -- That's what the students felt was true. -- I was going to go to the bathroom-- -- Well, that's what they said, I was going to go to the bathroom regardless, -- I felt very safe there. -- Why what? -- Why did they want to escort you to the bathroom? -- I don't know. -- Did you ask them? -- No, of course not. -- The situation on campus grew even more The protesters say his appearance -- Although Bret has not personally said, you know, "Go out and attack these students, that has been the result of his actions. He has incited white supremacists and he in our community and in the nation. And I don't think that should be -- We received a threat saying that people come here and execute every at that point... yeah, fuck free speech. -- When we're dead, when people die, "Well, at least they got I'm so sorry about it, your free speech is not more important than the lives of, like, black-trans-femmes -- Yes! -- Hate to break it to you. -- The protests have been effective, but it's unclear if they're widely supported. Many students told us that they've Kirstin, who also didn't want us to use her last name, is one of Weinstein's students: -- I'm afraid of having a nuanced opinion, because I'm afraid that my opinions -- It's a rather strange sentence "I'm fearful of my nuanced opinion." -- So I feel that I do not have the ability to speak, if I have disagreements with the methods -- There is this issue of what and who's going to dismiss me And that is new in the American discourse. -- A student told me that you're a white supremacist. -- I'm assuming the students have I don't believe I am. -- You don't believe you are, -- No. Well--it depends on what you mean What does that mean? I'm a white person in a position of privilege. -- Okay. I guess that's part of the confusion for me, is the precision of language seems to be -- It is. -- Bridges has acceded to But there's a demand he hasn't given into-- that Weinstein be fired. Weinstein won't rule out the possibility But if comes back to teach next semester, -- I don't care what happens to Bret anymore. He can go and be racist and be a piece Hopefully, long-term, -- At this point, why not beat a hasty retreat and say, -- Frankly, every student in that hallway who had chosen to make that protest has But I think that my standing there did some good.