I'm going to dive straight into the message that today with you a message on walking through the of opportunity. Last Sunday a young person came to our church when our church was one year was like 13 years of age. So I remember he even about 22 years of age and you know of course not a lot of mingling happening in our church he left our church and went to another church bless his heart and you know has a family, moved Sunday here and there in the lobby, he looks he said how this started and what is happening he was preaching and I was like man I want to I'm bringing my pastor here so he can learn and I've missed an opportunity. I missed personally I notice there are moments that are it becomes a momentum in your life that changes moment for whatever excuses you have, fears you know that you used to say, I shouldn't take the the world behind this door but never experiencing where God convicts you to repent of something but those moments is when God draws you the Bible says not always near meaning not that He's never close that pull, that sweet invitation where it almost yes. You don't have to grind into it. All you got When He draws you and you begin to say yes, your you're awakened by a dream and you're filled with and some people just go back to sleep, others and that moment marks their life because it a deeper relationship with God. The same thing and see God doesn't deliver you so that you you will do what you ought. He puts that a choice. You can now add discipline to it and way you've always lived after deliverance and in the same issue and sometimes even worse down to encourage you today to have discernment in your and step right into it. Before my YouTube exploded own YouTube channel because I was building only had his own YouTube channel in my mind, I was I wouldn't say it but that's what I had it in my group curriculum and that's how that channel was visit HungryGen, this was about three something and he stays in my house, we're fellowshipping some of you know who Isaiah Saldivar is if you from now. He's going to be speaking here so bring listening to this I love you but you are loud and first time Isaiah came he was bashing on social I said bro I understand people are addicted to media cuz it's a tool he's like bro I just don't at all. He was against that kind of stuff so a YouTube channel. I said bro did somebody hit You're like anti this stuff so Isaiah starts comes to our church and he's speaking to me in the his YouTube to touch the world and he's speaking same. I was like no no no that's you. I'm like I was like that's not me. I love the church. I'm I don't have good internet. I don't have a camera. YouTube. You do YouTube because you don't have a is saying one thing my heart is getting strangely explain, it's not me because I do not want to do burning and I feel this very strong conviction that whole night. I was literally and my mind is friend Everett who was already helping me in my I was like we are going to I don't know YouTube going to start live streaming, get a camera. God's through YouTube. I mean literally everything just year and a half two years, I would say my personal called YouTube. In fact I would say half of you video. What happened now I have friends now that moment isn't there for a lot of it was a opportunity given by the Lord and to you are in, changes the trajectory of your life. coffee in Houston so I got an Uber and the Uber got another Uber end up in some coffee shop barely the corner comes up and he says, Hey I just I got lost in. Just 4 days ago, I'm going to the are you the guy that just released the kundalini now but yes. I think it was on a YouTube channel really touched my life and he doesn't go to he said I watched the video and impacted somebody who got healed and somebody who got I don't like stream every week anymore like I used the walk in the ministry life is like surfing, when God sends one and when He does, you got to simply wait for God to bring another one. We don't God sends them and jump in because our life is let's open with me together to 1 Kings chapter saying to king Ahab. Thus says the Lord because whom I appointed to utter destruction. Therefore for his people. Now this is a slightly negative Let me give you a little bit of the background bad king. He was really really bad and it Ahab and Jezebel match made in hell like bad started to happen is for every bad king, God sends Elijah. Elijah comes and Elijah just straight lock up heaven and it will not rain, just like Ahab is looking for Elijah can't find him. Finally you to bring all of your witch doctors that you Carmel and we will have a showdown and if my God your God is true God well I'm going to accept Ahab takes the bait, not a good idea but he took his wife are financing and they're there, doing themselves, bleeding and Elijah's there mocking toilet. Your God probably went to use the restroom was no answer, there was no voice and then Elijah being the worst king in Israel, married to a of God comes, consumes the sacrifice and people of the Lord is God, the Lord is God and Elijah takes let's kill the witch doctors, literally destroyed budget for Ahab and Jezebel, completely removed in his life and this is why I want you to notice you see Ahab, you notice God's prophet comes to you. I am giving you strategy how to overcome he obeys the prophet and God gives a victory comes back to Ahab and says by the way that make sure you prepare for another battle. Ahab battle and in this battle he is as successful as I don't want to confuse you but listen to this the king escaped. Somebody say escaped. It was out The second time God put that king in the hands anymore, what Ahab did he pulled that king out PG version finishing him, he picked him up and you don't have to be super duper spiritual to he's not your brother, he's not a bro. This guy attacking you on the chariot. This is an enemy. enemy and then what Ahab does is lets him live and so that's what Ahab does. Now let's pause this a prophet we don't know who, we don't know happening with Ahab, one prophet goes to his please strike me according to the word he's like why would I want to do that? He's like and the lion ate him. My prayer and I say Lord somebody comes to me, says, hit me by the word of the word of the Lord. So you're reading the story prophet goes to another guy and says by the word like man, I've been waiting to hit somebody, come him, there was wounds and scars on the face of bandaged himself, covered himself up, sits on the victory, feeling good I had a victory you know a good deal from it, everything is fine and this up in his face, says Ahab I have a situation and true story. He's saying I was put in charge of me if I lose the guy I'm going to die or I have and I lost the guy, what's going to happen to me Ahab's situation and Ahab pronounces a judgment said and the prophet removes the scarf and says, it's his life for yours. You missed an opportunity It's not that this missed opportunity is battle. No you are going to lose your life it spirals down. God builds this momentum on the another victory and Ahab has this momentum in his momentum by not destroying what God defeated, by reason you will have revival. You are the reason revival. I am the reason why revival stops. God it stops. God doesn't hold you responsible for the for the things that slip through the cracks. today but I do believe the Lord wants to bring a this room who are about to miss an opportunity you're going to be reminded of the opportunities give them again but there are some, they'll never devil, he's an opportunist. The scripture says and in Luke it says this about Satan, it says he departed from Him until an opportune time. In Do not give the devil an opportunity. The circumstances to gain immediate advantage. What his chances are very slim until you give him an his chances are very high. Now unlike us who sometimes we're a little bit passive. We're a with those feelings, he is an opportunist, he him and once you give him an opportunity, he comes where it's been propagated, Christians cannot have Satan. The nature of Satan is he takes advantage and what we think sometimes as the religious group an open door cuz he's too lazy, too passive and the devil in the Bible. The devil in the Bible an opportunity, he will take advantage of the you have American citizenship or you don't before thing, an opportunity. What is that opportunity? will come in. You don't have to put a sign that do that all. You got to do is open the door and mosquitoes to come in. Let's say you have a sign welcome on this lawn. They don't read signs, they does. The enemy takes advantage of opportunity so you are providing an opportunity to the devil to people, torment people and cause people harm and an opportunity. Keep your life closed. Keep your your ears pure. Why? So that the devil will try you have not given him an opportunity Amen. That's opportunities to get in. God gives opportunities in life. Let's read some verses. Furthermore when door was opened to me by the Lord. Look at this the Lord opens doors. Let's read Revelation 3:8 I door and no one can shut it. For you have a little name. 1 Corinthians 16:9 For a great and effective want a great and effective door. For a great and a lot of haters meaning a lot of adversaries. gathered the church together and reported all that of faith to the Gentiles. So these are just few theme. Opportunities are like doors, okay since I presented a door before you. I decided to just well. Few things I want you to notice about doors to new rooms, new opportunities, new territories. have a new experience new level in life, new depth experience something very different. This could opportunity comes in the form of having a doctor's many years to live if you don't change how you conviction comes in that you've never had before. opportunity to leave a different legacy for your generational blessing. Sometimes this opportunity that God just opens the door, you get a dream at this pulling of the Lord into a deeper time your habits, it changes your life and next thing you're in a different life. To get access to we don't jump through the walls, we don't get and God opens them. When He opens them, we just of opportunity, remember it's to take you from you. So many people just stay on this side and in the other place. They wish to be in a different have to learn to discern it when it's He because God promised to you. The second thing I want you are usually closed. The doors aren't open all the a door for it to be open. Any place where it There's some places in our church, we removed the the time. You don't need a door if you planning come for a short period. They do not last. When land. They went with 12 spies. They had a window spies came back and they just kind of sneak peek the Lord closed the door of opportunity to the day, they felt bad about it. They said oh we're that opportunity was not open t that generation come once and they'll never come again for one talent. He was given opportunity. He buried himself oh I didn't lose anything but see what he and to be rewarded with the master to rule over Instead he stayed on this side of the opportunity least you didn't get lost, you just stood at this said now you will have part with the wicked in the of opportunity, if you don't take them, they the door was closed. The world during Noah after locked. Don't have this idea that an opportunity why the Bible says, Behold I stand at the door. guarantee tomorrow I'll be standing. Behold I Jerusalem and He said because you did not know opportunity, you didn't recognize it and now there again doom and gloom but it is a sober warning your hands and you play games with it. When you slack with it. When God gives you freedom and you and you don't run after Him. When God sparks of slack with it, you just let it fall through the fingers, you're like yeah whatever, it's dangerous your opportunities that God has given. So the closed. Every surfer know just because you're in opportunities for surfing and if you're too late, life. Number three about doors and opportunities when we are at the door and we really want to knock and it will be opened to you. In fact said meanwhile praying also for us that speak the mystery of Christ. There was a family have a family member that has a problem ABC drag them to church? I say you got to knock not to knock. Some of you here today and you are a single ladies because there's more single ladies less Christian godly men in the churches today be in this room called marriage but it seems like left and seems like there is Now a warning be very careful to go with church. Church is like a hospital not same. Some are very sick and you want to be very very sick person. So what do you do if it's impatient or in genuine pursuit of God. You can heart and sometimes when you keep knocking, you 6'5 basketball player. I have a Maserati and then As you keep knocking I want him to you know have to have this and you're like Lord honestly any any will do. As long as he loves you and loves your expectations a little bit. Knock. It's okay you notice the opportunity is not there, ask God of our hearts if we delight ourselves in the Lord. my delight in God tests my desires. If my delight I don't delight in God, I don't trust my own the place but if I delight myself in God I freely say Lord I have a desire and I believe that it's your glory and you knock and God on the other Can somebody say Amen. The fourth thing I want but also the keys. We have to have the keys. have a key we can't get in. What does this mean? In fact success is really when a preparation did not have it on his calendar in 365 days from gym and prepare myself for a battle. David didn't not get a notice. You don't have a reminder. You will be an opportunity. You actually don't know One option is to wait for opportunities but I give do you prepare for opportunities? Well if you're a you prepare for opportunities is this is prepare debts, get rid of your demons and other stuff and for marriage when you find somebody, that's kind the gift of celibacy is not on God's menu for the key. When opportunity comes in, many people the key for it meaning there's no preparation. If when he arrived at the field bringing cheese and he wouldn't be able to kill Goliath. Why? Because see how many opportunities you won't miss because man that was preaching last Sunday he is 13 the opportunity to preach on Saturday night? So going to throw them under the bus publicly right name right now just kidding. So I wanted Caleb this was a great test and I called his dad and it's 6:00 p.m. on Saturday. Now I know most of the they'll be like, I need a week to prepare. A Sunday. I want you to notice what he did, he never Why? He already had them keys and today I gave because I said I saw that you're prepared, I next time I might not be here and I'll call you sermon. I need you to get more keys because where of your life but you got to be prepared because when the doors are not open, prepare. If you want to launch a ministry, start serving in this one. you learn kid zone? Why don't you learn media? ministry. Do not wait for the open door, prepare key and you realize oh my goodness, it's already into the new season of my life Amen. Amen. Another A threshold is this is when you leave this season so fantastic that's how some of you come to to Tri-Cities you're like oh my God this is so talked to me you know they gave me a free coffee. this is awesome, so you're seeing this and then left the world you came from and you haven't fully that HungryGen is like a moving fast train and This could be a season where God convicted you. healthy. Your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost it. I got fired up. You're going first week, your life, recommitting your life to Jesus Christ threshold where nothing is happening. Fourth of all these temptations and every junk food cries you're like you know what, it's just one time. back on my diet or on my change of life tomorrow party and then Crispy Cream Donuts were handing this opportunity given to me by God and you're disappointment. It just doesn't work. No what stuck in the transition, you got to keep pressing that person that you said no to pornography you said no to those immoral thoughts and you were was there and now the motivation is kind of dying of thinking yeah, I'm just going to just going reinstall whatever the app that may be tempting. look at those things but I'm just going to read and pulled back to where you started again. I want push through the threshold, push through the you're not there and you're not here and you're This is supposed to be good but this is not good want to go back to what was comfortable. No no there's one more thing about this door is you have this is very important and I want to highlight opportunity. Some opportunities are demonic trap look alike but they're different. Lust and love When David was given a promise by God that he we don't see it recorded in the Bible but one of was the promise, I will give your enemy into pretty dangerous promise to give to a young and Saul is stopped at the rest area, decided to and his men are hiding in that cave and they're who keeps the record of prophecies, looks to David and tomorrow we go party and be kings and actually you want. Now David looks at his men and he where you have to bend your morality is demonic Amen. How do you decide if it's God? Do does it you have to bend your integrity to get in but you might never straighten out because you're not That's why Joseph looked at the Potiphar's wife we might even get rich of your husband and I can to bend to get into rooms because that is not desperate for the breakthrough, you will not supply but the greatest test is this, anything sacrifice your family to be successful, it's not trap from the devil. If you have to give up your is not God's opportunity, it is God's test. If you top, I don't care what the devil promises, if you the door that's God's giving you, it is the devil the kingdoms of this world and you have to tell bow before Him and you are not that God, get out If you have to lose who you are to get into open that door, sometimes the devil will present man you're waiting for, the devil will give you a Why? Because he's from hell and hell is hot. I'll convert him. I'll flirt to convert. Holy Ghost. It is not your charm but man like man we're only desperate for God. We're hungry for the lets me know hey this doesn't fit me, this is too if I have to already pray for God to yeah I'm not getting into that room. Why? that's a jail cell and then my marriage is that institution. I want God's blessing and I I'll rather wait for God to bring the change the person I bring to God because person. Wait for God's open door and don't door. How do we know the devil's door from it is not from God Amen. Let's wrap this up. opportunity is a tragedy. Luke 13:25 When once door and you begin to stand outside outside and He will answer and say to you I do not know you. spoke of Jerusalem He says, they will level and they will not leave in you one stone upon your visitation. The greatest lost opportunity to heaven. The second greatest lost opportunity is words, well done, good and faithful servant. When it cost him his life. When Israel missed the spent 40 years in wilderness. When a man missed into outer darkness. There are opportunities we and it's very clear. When God convicts us to we say no to them, it could actually tragically it's a tragedy if you miss them and one of those Christ today. That's why Hebrews chapter 3 it today. See when Moses came to Pharaoh and says you want the frogs to be removed and Pharaoh said Spirit says today. See the devil will always right with God, tomorrow you will have chance to repentance to tomorrow. Just spend one more night you about, one more night turned to a decade, one Did he try to come back and knock on this door. it why and how that happens. I just do know after it's sobers me that when God puts something in message. I'm not trying to scare anybody. What I'm Lord visits you, you got to respond. When He draws got to confess. When He sparks of fire, you got to The greatest lost opportunity is what you opportunity is will you say yes to His will in those are they'll come, they'll go, those are not you would say what if I don't know. Just ask side and says, come in say Lord confirm, give God knows how to bring circumstances. God it's a very serious decision and God sometimes He'll confirm it with your spouse but there up but no matter how many confirmations God Take a step of faith, Amen. We're in this room Behold I stand at the door and I knock. acceptable time. I want to give an opportunity you're not right with Jesus. If He were to eternity. Number two there is an area of your life I was speaking, the knocking of the Holy Spirit your mind justifies and say no I can't do that. No for the last three months. Three more months is married you know what I know we're living in sin argue but see the Holy Spirit, He doesn't listen the truth and we got to repent, we got to of these two categories where you don't know you are here and you backslid, you find yourself your friend invited you, you found out you came in and you felt the good vibe, brought cool place. This place is not going to save you, belief in the finished work of Jesus Christ will you know I went to Starbucks yesterday it did born again by associating with a religion. You and you forsake your sin and you give your life to not right with the Lord, today is your moment, I'm and just come and stand right here, just quickly if you backslid and you say today is my day, wait for your neighbor, who cares what anybody's I don't care if it's your first time. You're like Just come. Second sanctuary the same way, just the weight that you came with. Jesus is the about season of your life where you will go from death to go from spirit of death to the Holy Spirit of as well here today. I know you got plans for your going to miss out, on what? On a headache, On what? STDs. On what? A lake of fire. No you I came to give you life and more abundantly destroy. Come. The second sanctuary there. I want you to stretch your hands like this. The Bible says the wages of sin are death but get saved by praying a prayer. We get saved by heart but sinners who confess, pray and that's to say this out loud with me. Say Lord Jesus died on the cross for all of my sin. I repent done and wash me with Your precious blood. I I believe in you. I give you my life. Fill me I promise to follow you, use me for