(soft mysterious music) (text shattering) - [Narrator] Aliens have been Mankind has given them many names, angels, ghosts, demons and more. We look to the skies and wonder, visiting planet Earth It is so startling and so to look in that particular direction. (thoughtful mysterious music) Our ancestors developed ways and they called them gods. They were beings of light, They were both good and They gave great knowledge, and after tens of thousands of years, mankind suddenly had the We built huge monuments in their name, and we recorded our contact myths, legends, folklore and religion. We even created grand myths They were our gods, and we worshiped them and recorded their These gods of the world were in fact not real gods, whatever that means. They were in fact alien invaders, and we were the subjects of their rule. This is the true story of the Over 5,000 years before Christ, that would change the Hidden from us by misunderstanding, mistranslation and clouded in mythology, the birth of religion on this It was the result of an alien and it sparked the worship of Those Gods are the oldest anywhere in history. They are the root of all They gave rise to the Mesopotamia and more. They gave rise to the fable of Atlantis, the superior race who ruled over mankind with superior intellect and technology. Those people with knowledge of this created secret societies We know them today as the Illuminati. They spread outwards around of a special holy bloodline One of their descendants would be caught, beaten and crucified, and yet unrecognizable and accompanied He would ascend in the sky, having cast off his shrouded skin. His bloodline would give rise to the royal families of the entire world. His bloodline would be and would control the globe. He was a descendant of who came to this Earth as beans of light to create, control and teach mankind. He was a descendant of the a memory of a great battle that was fought between the serpent elite and All of this is actually written They were known as giants in the land. The aliens escaped Earth, and tools of power and communication. It is prophesied that they shall return, and the signs are growing and are right now dealing with their own elite bloodline, the men in power. (soft thoughtful music) Original worship on this that is historical fact, and yet it is within It is in all the myths of the world, and they all tell the same story. In the beginning, the the only animal in the with his own mind and voice. The tempter, and yet also the holder of ultimate wisdom and the elixir of life. Mankind in comparison to appeared foolish. From that day forward, the That serpent was quite holding the technological power in the wisdom of another civilization. The very genetic makeup of mankind would've been altered from this moment. We cannot say exactly when. We cannot pinpoint the so-called but we can piece together of the serpent aliens We can uncover the story and how it has affected our own reality. It is said that the aliens To many, the very idea within our religions and In Christianity and other and this itself is a and warring past between Nevertheless, the historical is there at the root This has been proven again and again, both from scriptures and archeology. Over thousands of years and the history of this ancient invasion by the great shining ones from the heavens altered and became legend and myth. Much of it turned into the but hidden in these stories of an invasion of planet Earth, by beings so strange that Ancient man left carvings, with tales of their The great guardians of the shining ones, known as the watchers, and a hybrid bloodline was born. It became the bloodline of and was protected and kept secret. In truth, this was the period of planet Earth by the shining Our ancestors worshiped them but now in our modern scientific age, we can now see things more clearly. These were not angels These were not great Greek deities sat on high and issuing commands. They were not the many-faced These were beings from who came here with superior technology. They created mankind, as the Egyptian &quot;Book of the Dead&quot; states, &quot;I which is on the head of the Shining One, he who gives life to mankind They guided mankind through They bred with us, and over control of us. Most we are told left, but the hybrid race remained among us as special people. And now with every that they have discovered that could sustain life. They find ancient rivers and even amino acids and They alter their of alien life on a weekly basis. It seems they're growing that soon they will The question is, will we and will they return if There are many ancient sightings of aliens and unidentified flying One of the first is the which describes quote, &quot;fiery discs&quot;, encountered floating over the skies, but there are even older sightings. The Ubaid period runs and is a prehistoric With all the knowledge we have of the widespread form of serpent worship, we look at this remote and we actually don't The Ubaid female serpent mother goddess is an image of precisely She's the giver of life, and an early form of Mary, the mother of God. She is a reptilian serpent being. She is from the very Is this a symbol of the origin of mankind? Did reptilian aliens In fact, the ancient inscribed on cuneiform tablets that reside in the Library of Ashurbanipal, to serve gods called the Anunnaki. The Anunnaki were aliens who came to Earth to mine gold for their own uses. According to the Enuma Elis mining gold was taking and then created the human race as slaves. Let's also take a look at to find out who these gods and were in charge of the watchers. The term Elohim, used and other texts outside of it, as in the Muslim Allah for the Lord, this is an incorrect usage, and means shining ones. We can see this plurality in &quot;And God said, 'Let us after our likeness,'&quot; &quot;The sons of God saw the daughters of men, that they were fair.&quot; This term sons of God is and comes from Ben ha-Elohim, Baal, the deity often spoken is also seen as a shining and is called the owner. At that time there were many In fact, there was one for each village. These are the governors of the first men, shining reptilian alien whose existence has been passed down to us in religious texts, fables, According to General Albert Pike, the most famous Masonic historian, in morals and dogma, the ascending and ascending to past messages to and from God, or the leader Yahweh. These beings came down to us from the heavens and back again. If this doesn't imply then what does? Interestingly, some of the and are akin to the angels of the Lord. Yahweh Elohim means simply, The Egyptian &quot;Book of the Dead&quot; calls these watchers Anubis and Horus, who came from a faraway place. The Hebrews termed these In Greek, this is translated a race that even the writer Hesiod featured as being monstrous, Now we can understand the role of giants that are seen across the world of folklore as perhaps a historical revision to portraying the original alien watchers. These watchers, according are the son of God spoken of in Genesis, sent from their heavenly What seems to have occurred by meeting with the daughters giving us the fallen angels and indeed the tales of Atlantis. (soft mysterious music) The fallen watchers swear an oath and bind themselves together. The place of this action is called Ardis, the fabled summit of Mount Hermon, which derives from the Following these actions the shining ones called down to destroy the offspring, a great ship to escape the There was obviously some great and the shining ones which gave rise to the and the others, to slay the We are slowly realizing that unfathomable even today, could have caused a massive and is beyond our imagination. Much of this myth of the watchers is found to be within the tales of wars, and the merging of peoples between Canaanites, Egyptians, Sumerians, and even Asian civilizations. But the underlying current is as the leaders, with eventually evolving into The term Anunnaki, means those who came down They looked down on the The truth of the story of the shining ones and their watchers has been the subject of a purging by many Jewish authorities, who were understandably of these angels and their from the worship of the one God. With this end, the Book of mentioned above were stricken and are now known as What we do know though is in what has been described and were called Egregores. The term Egregore is Greek be excited by passion, Eliphas Levi, the 19th-century speaks of these Egregores and even links them to spoken of in the book of Enoch, and have appeared in the guise of giants. These are the Egregores termed the celestial watchers Levi also calls these Egregores and men of renown or giants of the Bible, and that they are expressed in the myths of various cultures, just The extremely ancient concept was still very much alive, by the mystics of the These were very much part and parcel of their hidden secrets. What we can glean here of the influence of the first and the Illuminati, both These shining ones are the first we have on paper, so to speak. They have a structure They rule over man and are to ensure that their Either the shining ones generations later, or the have copied the methods, The great religions of the by some secret method, which we now know to be the generative cause of religion. Namely, all these religions and societies are based upon the days of created mankind, fostered did battle, and then But there is one fable that of these alien originators, Atlantis. For well over 2000 years, mankind has grappled with the question, what was Atlantis, and where It's time to break apart the myth, and reveal the hard evidence So what does the word itself mean, and where did it originate? It is named after the who holds up the world on his shoulders. Atlantis is the island of Atlas. According to Plato, Atlantis situated in front of This great power had existed That's about 11,000 years ago. The Alanteans had conquered however, when they the island sank into the ocean in a single day and night of misfortune. The very word Atala means It was or is a massive and sits within Atlantis, somewhere between Europe and America. Proclus believed Atlantis the historians and philosophers A few decades after Plato, another writer by the name of Theopompus spoke of a land called Meropis. Here a race of men grew and inhabited two cities the pious town and the fighting town. Most scholars believe that Theopompus was in fact imitating or copying Plato, and thus much of the with the mythology of Atlantis over time. The next actual written comes from the historian He claims that the successor of Aristotle, a man named Theophrastus said, which was greater than Africa and Asia, as Plato says in the was overwhelmed beneath of an extraordinary and suddenly disappeared, becoming sea. Not indeed navigable, but It is interesting that Atlantis with the Great Flood from the Bible, a sudden destruction of and only remembered now as legend. Scientific evidence around the globe at various intervals, and some have compared the tsunamis caused by the eruption of Santorini In truth, it may be that of this massive destruction but with different names and perspectives. The writer Ignatius that all known civilizations He drew parallels between of various cultures, and stated was really in Atlantis. There are a number of modern such as the idea that Atlantis had something to do with ancient aliens. From Lemuria to Avalon, the real journey starts now. Maybe it's time to forget throw out the preconceptions about an island of circles and open our minds to a that Atlantis was much more Could this be the story Is this the real lost This is quite possibly the of peoples such as the world For just a moment, let us consider something very strange and bizarre. Let's turn to the concept of Mexico, and the vast similarities in myths and place names as Atlantis, and let us imagine that Atlantis the name may have something to do with it. A Greek myth emerging from the Well, not quite. You see, it may in fact be have the same or similar names and beliefs as much of the ancient world that ancient serpent spread out across the globe, and took with them In all likelihood, the original people we vaguely call serpent worshipers are ultimately responsible for the world's serpentine-related stone These people are known as the watchers or shining ones in the for raising great stone and were the ones perhaps And the originator of the Atlantean myth is the ancient serpent god himself, came from beneath the waters. He came from the place below, Atlantis. Jeffrey Ashe in &quot;The Ancient Wisdom&quot; says, &quot;According to one theory, all are derived from a Sumerian arch-serpent in subterranean waters, Water is, by many myths around the world, the home of the serpent spirit. There are many hundreds of changed and altered by the who by their meddling of the Atlanteans that and knowledge across the world. Serpent water deities such as Brigid of Kildare. The Naga serpent masters of ancient India were also said to live In Greek myth, the serpentine god Poseidon and the serpent Typhon, were with many watery places Even in the temples of Asclepius, we find the pools of healing, a healing which is directly This element of the healing simply crossed over into the water itself, and thereafter the water Added to this, the very important concept that water was seen as the and we have an association of the water of the gods healing mankind. Water is in fact seen as where the alien serpents originated. Even beneath the temple in Jerusalem, there is the serpent pool or dragon pool. The gnostic Jews known as the Assim were said to have used pools to heal, and were connected to the healing serpent as their original name, Ophites, It may indeed be that baptism has its root in this idea of the serpent healer being born again to new and eternal life, by being submerged into the waters of the serpentine other world, A larger version of this basic truth is seen in the story of the flood, the deluge that sank Atlantis and other fabled lands across the world. Could this in fact be an simply returned home through And so we can see from history and folklore that the people we are calling Atlanteans possibly following some cataclysmic event, and took with them knowledge astronomy, navigation and more. And all of this goes right back in time to the origins of civilization itself, to the ancient alien gods themselves, and we must remember that under the sacred waters was To live where no human could, only the gods could live there. This then is in fact the like angelic beings the otherwise known as the sons of God. The tale of these watchers is found in the legends of Sumeria Sumeria was the land of the watchers, and it is from this land that who governed the watchers also resided. This is the land of origins The term Elohim was used as a word for God, but it can also be used as the term is plural The stark fact of the matter a Pharaoh of Egypt was a god on Earth, so too priests of the The watchers, according are the sons of God spoken of in Genesis, sent from their heavenly It is the links to these that has spawned much of the idea that they were in fact did battle in the sky and more. In the tales of Atlantis, lost in the mists of time, and remained alive in the we know as the Illuminati. In order to find the true Illuminati, you must travel through time and space to find them in every culture of the world over a period that reaches and Africa, and a landscape as diverse as South America and Japan. Yes that is the truth, because traversed the globe taking and wisdom with them. We know this today as illumination, and it gives rise to the term Illuminati. From one learned brother to another, from one master to the next, The secrets they held within their groups is almost as old as mankind, because our originators All trace their descent from of ancient times, and all and beliefs to be found As we have seen, thousands of years ago a special advanced race They were seen as gods by They set themselves apart, and created a special race. When the elders departed, this hybrid species Civilization emerged, writing, architecture and more The human race that had been of years to hunt and gather, cultivated the land, forged steel, and eventually held tiny that enabled them to communicate and discover knowledge All of this and more is for our benefactors They took control of our minds and hearts. They control this world, From the moment you are and moved through a process Nobody is truly free. We are all working for the masters. Every now and then they're and in the 18th century we had a glimpse of their massive power. We know them as the Illuminati, and they originated in ancient times. Quote, &quot;Throughout Mesopotamia, of Sumer and Akkad, all and men were their slaves.&quot; Of this, the cuneiform texts Each city-state had its principle god, and the king was described written documents that we have as quote, &quot;The tenant farmer of the god.&quot; All the great religions originate in the same historical that descended to Earth, brought them out of the dark ages, bred them and established Using propaganda, mind humans were treated like sheep and told to believe and behave. We had to worship the lights in the sky. We had to bow to their and we had to pay the priest Land was taken from us and we were told to pay to live upon it. To pay, we had to work Then we had to pay taxes to the relatives of the rulers and priests in government, who made laws to keep us controlled. We were thrown into war told to build pyramids and great walls, experimented on and abused If any of this is sounding absolutely nothing has really changed, even though the powers that From the 17th century onwards, of revolting against this oppression. Across Europe and the fought against the tyranny, the rulers had people in both camps. The US War of Independence for instance, was led by men on both of the same Free Masonic lodges, who were often themselves The English civil war begging for a royal to It was all staged, it The First and Second World Wars changed the political map of Europe, and yet the royals and religions remained. Power cleverly shifts around, the same families run the world. Modern control began in the to the growing enlightenment The printed word had an for those in power, people started to gain One very clever method of is to cause it, own it and control it. Create your very own group that seemingly goes against the status quo, those who are naturally your own secondary power One sure way of winning any In the 18th century, the modern with the creation of the Illuminati. The name in itself must that those who originally came to Earth were the illuminated ones. In the 18th century, a Freemason &quot;There are a certain number of people who have arrived at the They have conceived the project and of conquering not but the human mind. This project is gigantic and which causes neither alarm nor uneasiness, but when we descend to what passes before our eyes when we perceive a sudden revolution in favor of ignorance and incapacity, we must look for the cause of it. And if we find that a explains all the phenomena with terrifying rapidity, Standard history tells by Johann Adam Weishaupt, the founder of the Weishaupt was born in Bavaria His father, Baron Ickstatt, was a professor at the having married the niece of the curator. The Baron secured a scholarship at the Jesuit College for to become a law student at the age of 15. Ingolstadt was a steadfastly Jesuit area, and had been for over 200 years. Dissent was not permitted. Even though they had been by Clement XIV, it has that they were the world's largest and most powerful secret that they were feared by and that a universal confession could be well utilized for blackmail. According to a converted the world at large a system of divine or human, may be and by which the very Bulls It is a ghastly religion. It is a religion to be abhorred by all honest and honorable men.&quot; So according to this 19th-century writer, they were even above Edwin A. Sherman, an American Freemason also writing in the 19th century stated, &quot;The Jesuits laugh at us, the rattlesnake is coiled at our feet, climbing to strike us in the heart.&quot; Even President Lincoln who after prior attempts said, in those deeds of blood that Henry IV said that it was impossible to escape them, and he became their victim, though he did all he I know that the Jesuits It seems like a peculiar world On the one hand they royalty and Presidents, and on the other taking an oath which puts them at odds with just about everybody It is into this world that By 1775, Weishaupt was Professor and it was this year he or to form a plan of an association This association would quote, &quot;Oppose the forces of or in other words, religion. The thoughts of many so hated the Jesuits that to do away with them once and for all. The truth is that Weishaupt was in fact trained by the Jesuits for the purpose of raising a worldwide army be feeding back information the information that the anymore through their confessions. In fact, the Illuminati even in line with that of the Jesuits. All of this surveillance and confession was fed back to the Jesuits who were supposed to be against them. How better to find out of the opposition, than This is a standard double by the secret services of They even fed the antisemitic rhetoric, which suited the Catholic Through associations with the Freemasons, the Jesuits managed to and influence to the These business leaders, religionists and so-called free thinkers, were in fact being manipulated yet again, and very often with the exact same devices that had been used for thousands of years. Belief in a divine entity, otherwise known as Lucifer, that their own secret line stretched back to the time of Egypt and beyond. What many probably all of that was true. They were being controlled and manipulated by a sacred line that did originate thousands of years ago, Following Weishaupt's amazing creation, out of the order of a we suddenly have several and the balance of power supposedly shifting like never before. The Illuminati stretch right back into the realm of the This link is with the Roshaniya, or illuminated ones, and reference to them comes from the House of Wisdom in Cairo, a veritable fount of esoteric knowledge predating the Roshaniya The earliest leader we who claimed descent from Using merchants and soldiers, his message across the and those gnostics and already understood the As Arkon Daraul says &quot;Coincidences of dates and beliefs connect these Bavarian and also with the other cults, which called themselves illuminated.&quot; The beginning of the 17th of the illuminated ones condemned in an edict of the In 1654, the illuminated Guillehinet came into public notice in France. Documents still exist that show several points of resemblance and central Asian illuminists, points which are hard to account for on the grounds of pure coincidence. Weishaupt founded his Illuminati on Mayday 1776 in Bavaria. He called himself Brother Spartacus, as if mimicking the rebellion from within. There was no democratic The Illuminati was led by Very quickly it set about creating an international network They set up in cells, with each cell having a secret superior. The structure was having no idea who was above them. Weishaupt then targeted the Freemasons, and was initiated into He attempted to reform he began recruitment drives It was a brilliant ploy, to build a secret society. His stated goal was to through education. He would free people from In this way, Weishaupt grew and drew in those who and religious leaders as trouble. Claiming to free people the Illuminati in fact gave them harder rules and regulations to follow. Even their reading This was not enlightenment or freedom. This was control of the mind Indeed independent thought and action was forbidden by the rules of the Order. Enlightenment they said, under the guidance of the superior, but he didn't stop there. In fact, he received of Duke Ernest II of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg, where he lived and wrote The very royal and the Illuminati were supposedly And yet we are told it was disbanded. We are supposed to believe across Europe suddenly stopped attending Illuminati meetings, We are told that because the Their grand ideas of of religion and state ended there. And yet even in 1798 there were rumblings that they had not died. Many even claimed they were which brought down government, So powerful was the that Christian preachers and even in the United States. What we do know is that Some royal houses did by people who actually had royal blood. Religion was supposedly Revolutions occurred across the world, and all this following the and within a very short time period. The surface story looks The subtle hidden story works well for the conspiracy but the truth is that nothing It was a massive and that served its purpose brilliantly. Free thinkers really did believe Here's a brief example of how they made no difference at all. United Kingdom is a very small place in comparison to many and yet the power it holds is immense. It has a massive commonwealth it can call on during times of war, such as Australia, Canada, and more. The head of state for all of these is the present king or queen. That head of state owns in the world, shares in the They are head of the They can dissolve Parliament Parliament itself is of elected ministers to an unelected House of Lords who answer to the king or queen. Beneath the head of state there are Dukes, Earls, Lords, Barons and more. All of these are in positions of power in government institutions, They are the ones who hold all the power. Anybody who steps outside of is immediately taken care of, as perhaps was possibly the Just because every now although a brilliant one manages to make millions means little. Even he needs permission from to fly his planes, set up a If he or his company steps out of line, then permission is not given. Tow the line, Virgin or no Virgin. And just because you don't think for one minute you are immune. Take Hollywood, for example. The stars of Hollywood are Some step out of line, no longer required for Because the big film companies are largely owned by the same old elite. Many stars are themselves US comedian Ellen DeGeneres is 15th cousin to Princess Kate Middleton. Angelina Jolie is descended Brad Pitt is a descendant Hugh Grant is a descendant Brooke Shields descended Uma Thurman descended from King Edward I of England, and so on. In fact the list is extensive, and look at many executives of film, distribution and studios, In the UK as in America, The world famous BBC is all of which are populated that sit in the House of so-called Lords, and were educated by one of those inbred All of these people own the They run all of the institutions the major charities, the arms media outlets, police, military and more. They even control access castles, and places of On top of all this, the hidden wealth of these people of the Hidden beneath the Vatican that could solve all Africa's problems. The British royal family and antiques, that the could be solved very quickly. Add up all the other royal the Barons and Earls, the and you have a staggering Between the royals, religions and so-called secret we have much more than just wealth. We have power so vast, it and all of these are part that thousands of years from the beings of light Remember those lines from That from the earliest all lands were owned by gods These were the illuminated ones. In the 18th century, their name reemerged. They spread, embedded controlled people and forced change. The same freemasonry that religion, business, military, police, charity, media, and just One bloodline to rule them all, and in the darkness blind them. Now in the 21st century, we who have accumulated vast We are controlled from birth. We are given a number that must move along with us throughout life. We need that number to get healthcare, to be allowed to indebt to vote in the mockery to claim a pension we During our lifetime, they have the power to take away our freedom at who ultimately do their To send us off to war, to they told us we owned. To take away our children We are branded by religion, Our intelligence is measured, our education controlled and manipulated, and ultimately we pay for this institutionalized brainwashing. The internet is increasingly a tool for propaganda and mind control. Drugs are mass tested on us, as if we're some kind of Our food intake is constantly in the same way our entertainment is. The news is carefully chosen by editors who are told what to choose by the owners, who are likely connected to False stories are created to Religions are constantly used against us, to make us look outward and and all the while real people in the world see and experience real events. Thousands and thousands of people have witnessed UFO In each case, the governments cover up, create false stories, and hide the truth. What does our strictly They disinform and ridicule according to the Humankind is not the master Humankind is enslaved to the ancient gods that came down to Earth They have become so deeply that we no longer see them. The universities that are owned and run by them, and it is they who create the professors, the experts that we the They tell us that the written by our ancestors are nothing more than religious mythology. That serpent-faced aliens with fiery weapons and strange craft are all from their bizarre imagination. They then tell us to go to church, and pray to imaginary to make offerings to dead saints, to give ourselves over So what is freedom? Unless you can somehow of some huge forest and escape all their influence and You, me and everybody else on this planet are subjects of influence. Whether from the TV set, we are being constantly fed that meets the goal of those ancient gods, to enslave humanity. (uneasy mysterious music)