(gentle music) - [Narrator] When you visit Las Vegas you will have the impression that there are countless competing for your attention. Consider this area, for example, on the southern edge of The Strip. There's The Excalibur Hotel which appears as a Medieval castle, then there is The Luxor with an ancient Egyptian theme and there's The Mandalay Bay Resort which focuses on opulence with its gold-colored glass facade. But anyone who chooses The Luxor Hotel and is roaming through the might all of a sudden find themselves inside one of the other two casinos. That is because all three casinos are connected by indoor walkways. You can stroll back and without setting a foot outside. A similar walkway can be found between The Horseshoe Hotel, formally known as The Bally's, and The Paris Hotel, both located roughly in the But why do these hotels make it so easy to stroll to their competitors? Wouldn't they do everything to keep you just within their premises? As you've probably both The Horseshoe and The Paris belong to the same parent and the three other hotels, Luxor, Mandalay Bay, and Excalibur, also all belong together and are operated by MGM In fact, the probability that your hotel belongs to one of the two since more than half of the casinos on the world-famous Strip are now operated by one Now this was not always the case, though, as the current situation is the result of a fascinating development, decades of mergers and acquisitions, and to this day the battle for (gentle music continues) Let's look back at the year 1989, the year where The Mirage - [Announcer] Fantasy becomes reality when The Mirage appears - [Narrator] At this point in time, tourism growth seemed to have slowed down. For example, it had been a full 16 years since the last new casino But The Mirage became an instant success. Also due to its popular and the hotel's magic It kickstarted an era of (gentle music) In 1990, Circus Circus Enterprises opened the aforementioned Excalibur Hotel with a family-friendly Medieval theme. - [Reporter] Immediately, and tourists were inside, as The Excalibur is aiming While mom and dad gamble upstairs, their kids go downstairs to the arcade. - [Narrator] In 1992, Promus Companies, which already owns The Holiday Inn Hotel, renames that hotel to Harrah's. In 1993, the city gained an MGM Grand opened the MGM Grand Hotel, Mirage Resorts opened Treasure Island, and Circus Circus opened - [Reporter] It's opening day at The Luxor and thousands funnel through the entryway to see for themselves what - [Narrator] Another announced the construction At this point, the company their name-giving hotel which Bally Entertainment of an adjacent resort which Today, this resort is known for the replica of The Eiffel Tower in front of the hotel. In the same year, Promus Companies renames itself Then, in 1996, Hilton Hotels increased The group already owned The Flamingo Hotel which to this day is the on The Strip. In addition, Hilton acquired gaining control over The which was still in the With completion a few years later, Hilton now owns three casinos here. In the very same year, The Monte Carlo, a joint venture between Circus Circus and Today, this hotel goes One year later, New York New York was opened by MGM Grand. It's a fascinating building with a facade that mimics In 1998, Hilton decided to from the rest of the group's hotels and formed Park Place Entertainment. In the same year, Mirage Resorts opens yet which attracts worldwide attention for its famous dancing water fountain. In 1999, Circus Circus opened the one with the gold-colored facade. The group also changed its Then, in the year 2000, the consolidation really got going. Park Place massively by acquiring the large and MGM Grand acquired Mirage Resorts, renaming itself to MGM Mirage. The competition for supremacy in Las Vegas was in full swing. In 2003, Park Place changed its name to Caesars Entertainment, a more well-known brand due to the popularity of With four companies 2005 would become the in Las Vegas. (gentle music) MGM Mirage took over Mandalay Resorts and thus bundles all the It became the largest However, only for a brief moment in time. Just two months later, driven by the knowledge of this merger, Harrah's Entertainment and Caesars also reconsidered their position and agreed on a deal that allows Harrah's to take over Caesars Entertainment. Much of The Strip was now In the same year, Harrah's also bought The Imperial Palace, a casino that is now known as The Linq. They also purchased The now known as The Cromwell. In 2009, MGM Mirage sold to businessman Phil Ruffin and opened a giant new consisting of a shopping and various hotels. Harrah's Entertainment expanded further by purchasing The Planet Hollywood Hotel and both companies, again, Harrah's Entertainment reverted back to Caesars Entertainment and MGM Mirage became MGM Two giants had grown, exercising enormous control Today, all these casinos on are run by MGM, and the middle of The Strip of Caesars Entertainment. Only the northern part is In total, of the 27 famous casinos here, 17 are operated by MGM or Caesars. Both companies have built that work across all their resorts, so whenever you spend belonging to the respective group, you receive points. And depending on the number of points, you are classified in a rewards tier, which is associated with various benefits. A system designed to retain customers and prevent them from But the map as we see it here because if you look at the you will often find that company name appears, VICI Properties. VICI, as in &quot;veni, vidi, vici,&quot; a reference to Caesar. VICI Properties is listed as which is operated by MGM, the direct competitor of Caesars. So, what is VICI Properties? While in 2010 MGM and Caesars appeared like strapped giants, behind the scenes Caesars was crumbling. Amidst all these acquisitions, Caesars Entertainment had undergone a complex transformation itself as the investment companies Apollo Global Management jointly took over Caesars Entertainment and privatized the publicly-traded company with a leveraged buyout. This means that a large is financed by debt with the assets of Caesars The $13.7-billion deal was the fourth largest leveraged and what followed were that made creditors feel betrayed as well as large amounts of all at a time amidst the and weakened consumer behavior The leveraged buyout - [Newscaster] Breaking overnight, Caesars Entertainment filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. - [Reporter] Hoping the to get out from under - [Narrator] With Caesars the largest subsidiary of Caesars, put into Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the company began a more than two-year-long and a compromise between was being negotiated. In the end, Caesars creditors acquired approximately 2/3 of Caesars Entertainment while Apollo and Texas Pacific Group had to reduce their stake in Caesars Entertainment Corporation initially to 16%, a little later dropping out completely. The real trick, however, is that Caesars Entertainment was split into two completely separate companies, and this is how VICI Properties was born, a pure real estate company that would simply own the casinos. So while VICI Properties of the hotels and is less dependent on the fluctuations of the gambling business, Caesars Entertainment can and is lightened of assets. In addition, VICI Properties can benefit from a massive tax break due to the company being a also called REIT, which are exempt from federal income tax. A similar step also had and this is how MGM Growth that owns the hotels and By selling the real estate, these operating companies can gain money which they can invest in future growth, especially important considering the changing gambling market, because while the focus of this video is on the battle over Vegas, these companies are operating and increasingly digital, for example, in the growing The local gambling halls into major global corporations, as visible by Caesars at the time of Chapter 11 bankruptcy which shows that Las Vegas business only accounted for 35% (gentle music) - [Reporter] El Dorado Resorts is buying Caesars Entertainment, creating a major casino giant. - So the deal is worth $17.3 billion. - [Narrator] With Caesars by merging with El Dorado Resorts, 2022 would see yet that would once again as VICI Properties acquires giving the company control over in Las Vegas. The battle for Las Vegas While this map, which depicts the operating ownership of the real estate is often in someone else's hands. These are all of the that are owned by VICI Properties at the time of making this video. Alongside some former VICI also owns The Venetian Hotel and the land under The T-Mobile Arena. With the real estate business conventional big players are investing into the city as well with purchases such as The and The ARIA and Vdara The battle for Las Vegas now split into real estate competition and into the casino-operating business. And just like the city never sleeps, the battle is unlikely to ever end. (gentle music) For quite a while I have been working on an extensive new project, and if you enjoyed this video then I'm sure you would love this. I created an in-depth documentary about the fascinating 2018 trapped deep inside a cave. - [Narrator] The team, consisting of 11-to-16-year-old boys, had explored the caves when suddenly heavy trapping them inside. - We knew that if all of they would die. - [Narrator] Back then, the but by revisiting it just how difficult this operation was. You can watch this video right now on my streaming service Nebula where I am posting all my videos early. And not only that, you also get access to all of my exclusive Nebula content. I have produced videos about the raid on Bin Laden's compound, about the construction of or about the investigation Nebula was founded by so that we could build our own platform with a subscription model that allows us to turn higher-budget ideas into reality, ideas that just couldn't be made with YouTube ad money alone. And what happens when to make their dream projects has been absolutely astounding to see. - [Narrator 2] What of our evolution? - [Narrator] The team was - [Narrator 3] The Russian armed an all-scale invasion of Ukraine. - (indistinct) so illegal. - We gotta go. Go go go! - [Narrator] If you sign up using my link on screen right now, you will get a $20 discount a year, which means it'll cost just 2.50 a month. That way you will support that me and my friends have embarked on of building our very own streaming site. Thank you so much for watching. (gentle music continues)