Fifteen million tons of bombs, a country devastated earned the Vietnam War of being the dirty war. Between 1955 and 1973, American soldiers joined forces to fight mercilessly and the Communist guerrilla fighters At the end of the war, Fifty-eight thousand Americans, more than a million Communist soldiers as well as hundreds of thousands More than 40 years after the war, yet hidden evidence of the conflict testifying to the violent combat Thanks to field research, to survivors who agreed and to computer-generated reconstructions, you will discover the marks Dead soldiers' belongings, weapons cache, tunnels used by the Viet Cong, and unexploded bombs These vestiges shed new light Twenty years of terrible fighting embroiled in one of the most During the Vietnam War, In the north, a communist regime founded by Ho Chi Minh, and supported by the Soviet Union Its capital is Hanoi. In the south, and allied with the Americans. It had its own army Its capital is Saigon. The border between the two regimes At this point, Fighting race on both sides The first Americans At the time, officially the government At the height of the Cold War, one of the last non-communist regimes Under the cover they were, in fact, CIA agents the Army of the Republic of Vietnam. Their objective was to teach against the northern communists. However, in the south, some residents They entered the resistance, and created supported by North Vietnam. The Americans called them the Viet Cong. In 1961, Kennedy took office, and greatly increased The troops had a new mission, organizing search operations There was a whole other thing That was the idea that the United States to cope with small-scale wars. South Vietnam It was like a test case where the Kennedy administration that it thought might help To support the Viet Cong, the northern communist army that secretly gave pockets the Ho Chi Minh trail. Its purpose was to move The main trail went through and then crossed Laos Along the way, secondary paths fanned out, linking different zones offering different alternatives by the enemy alliance. At the height of its activity, There were transport units There were artillery units during American bombing campaigns. Army units against the South's soldiers and, of course, build, dig, and repair trails, which was essential. The trail descended as far as Saigon to supply the guerrilla fighters' station Most of them were hiding 40 kilometers Here, the vegetation seems yet an immense network of tunnels still exists. In the region, often used as building material. Reinforced with bamboo roots, the tunnels from the war Huynh Van Chia is a Viet Cong veteran. He grew up and fought in Cu Chi. From the age of 17, and was among those who dug tunnels We didn't have a digging machine, We had to use picks with very small heads that if the blades were too wide, To remove the soil from the tunnels, a sort of flat bamboo basket. Finally, we covered the end of the tunnel Begun during the Indochina War the network grew over the years The tunnels had four levels. The first consisted of shelters The second and the most extensive, and housed the headquarters To compensate for the lack of oxygen, ventilation ducts made it possible At a depth of six meters, the elderly, the wounded, operating rooms, A fourth level was dug just three meters All together, of 250 kilometers of tunnels, allowing up to 16,000 people to hide. This is going to be a methodical search, house by house, The American forces located just a short distance They decided to teach soldiers from their hiding places. The members of this very special unit As the underground corridors the tunnel rats were essentially or South Army Vietnamese, able to sneak They flooded the tunnels, exploded bombs, When there was an attack, We knew the network by heart, so we could continue without them even knowing [Vietnamese spoken audio] We went like this, from one room to another We had to be prepared for anywhere With trained soldiers a network of hiding places, and ways of moving the Communist side had many assets To weaken them, the American command decided chemical warfare. The guerrillas' ability to ambush was a key problem so the Americans They employed it along the roads In 1962, the US Army Their objective on the areas occupied by the Viet Cong to cut off their food supplies making the fighting easier. In 1962, maybe to about '66, '67, it took days or a week for the defoliants when the Americans Orange was only used for the formula that was called 245T or D, which was the most toxic. Then 24 hours. Up until 1971, 48 million liters of Agent Orange The A Luoi Province in the country. The area is located very close to the line Of the province's 1,000 square kilometers, Phung Tuu Boi is an environmental expert. He studies the consequences He regularly collects samples to monitor soil contamination. According to the records, the Americans dumped defoliants The village of Dong Son, The planes flew over this village When Agent Orange it weakened the stalk of the leaves, causing them to fall As the spraying continued, The Agent Orange formula with long-term devastating effects. Dioxin. It traveled down the plants Over time, and because of the rain, dioxin eventually contaminated Today, the amount of dioxin than the maximum allowed for agriculture. Phung Tuu Boi is trying to keep residents from reaching the areas In the onsite greenhouses, whose roots are capable and cleansing the soil. His goal is to restore and to bring back the animals Spraying defoliants began in 1962, but the bombing of the areas occupied Until then, US forces had officially only supported but that year, an event On August 2nd, 1964, two American destroyers exchanged fire An affront that Lyndon Johnson, could not accept. I come to report against United States ships have today required me to order the military forces to take action and reply. The United States A year later, they launched the war's Operation Rolling Thunder, to massively bomb the areas In the Vietnam War, the standard tactical aircraft the F-4 Phantom fighter, for example, could carry a bomb load A fighter plane in Vietnam that a heavy bomber If you look in Vietnam those B-52s Napalm, a gasoline-based product, was quickly added Its devastating effects characterize in Vietnam were. Located near the sea, Vinh Moc is one of the first villages The South Vietnamese army by land, sea, and air. As such, the guerrilla fighters At the beginning of the war, families built simple shelters Ho Van Triem was 20 years old There were several types of shelters. I lived in this one. This type of A-shaped shelter from the American Navy When the bombing this type of shelter We were forced to dig tunnels to live, and to continue the fight Inside this cliff, the residents dug a network that connected the beach to the village. The ocean wind ventilating the underground village. Inside, the villagers created everything This is a well. During the war, we could not go out to get water, The Vinh Moc tunnels and even a maternity ward. Between 1965 and 1973, Ho Thi Giu is one of them. She lived her first years which kept her safe We used to call this our apartment. In reality, it was only a small room It was called an apartment It was small, Because of the war, Every family, no matter how big, We had nowhere else to go. Despite the war, I know it must seem unbelievable, There was a strong solidarity between us. We shared every small fish We also shared our potato We ate together and fought side by side. At the end of the bombing, returned to live in the daylight, but above ground, the war had completely We had no houses left, and throughout the region, the earth was strewn At the end of the war, but now, with the constant threat still hidden in the ground. The mission of the Vietnamese association, is to eradicate Its teams work to neutralize that remain in the ground. Today, bomb disposal experts where 325 lots have already been explored. They have already found It only takes a few minutes for the team The bomb found this morning It is a BLU-26 fragmentation bomb. The size of a tennis ball, a mixture of TNT and RDX, one of the most powerful explosives Its defining feature is that its explosion releases in a 360-degree radius. You can see here that when it explodes, it projects It's very dangerous, it's deadly. Here, It's very dangerous. It's an extremely sensitive bomb. It explodes immediately, Among the other explosives is the Mark 2 hand grenade, whose detonator Once removed, and then the grenade The bomb, AN M47 A3, On impact, The explosion releases Bomb removal experts have identified and other grenades. Here, it's part of our daily lives. We hear explosions all the time. As soon as you hear a noise, Very often, you go to look for a body. We young people think that but it's indeed a job You leave in the morning without really knowing Of the millions of tons during the Vietnam War, an estimated ten percent did not explode The Americans carried to try to win the war However, in 1968, a totally unexpected event tipped the war. Much to their surprise, the Communist Alliance the Tet Offensive. Tet is the Vietnamese New Year, Since the beginning of the war, the two sides had called On January 30th, 1968, when the Tet Offensive it was a perfectly prepared operation. The Tet Holiday that it would never nor the South Vietnamese Republic that the Communist guerrillas Hue, Da Nang, and more than 100 cities held were attacked simultaneously One of them was Saigon, the center of the offensive To grab people's attention, the Viet Cong selected among them, the US embassy, Independence Palace, Weapons for the offensive were transported from the north to the Cu Chi tunnels. They were hidden and brought into Saigon. The North's guerrilla fighters to launch the Tet Offensive right under the Americans' noses. One of the biggest weapons caches Almost 50 years after the battle, their son had preserved in its original state. These are the bullets fired during the night Commando unit number five left During the offensive, the south army soldiers discovered They launched an attack on the house. They were sure This is the underground area Behind it, there is access In case of a problem, you could either escape Look, these are grenades. These are American, These came from the Soviets. These are Chinese. That's an AK 47. Its cartridge clip is still intact. A block like this can blow up You just need to put a detonator there The wick lights the detonator These blocks of TNT are very dangerous. In total, three tons of weapons all intended We hosted about 20 North Vietnamese here. They came in the evening and then drove to Independence Palace. Despite all the preparations the Tet Offensive At about two o'clock in the morning the Viet Cong managed but in just a few hours, the American soldiers and eliminated the attackers. From a military point of view, the Tet Offensive but their determination The Americans continued but in 1971, they resigned themselves to the fact Their soldiers gradually withdrew At the same time, they agreed to negotiate They needed to leave Seventeen million people to choose their own government On the ground, the North Vietnamese Army In March, their troops entered The United States decided Their bombings Both parties and the United States had agreed without the Northern Army However, they began to demand that the North Vietnamese Army On the Hanoi side, That's why the United States striking Hanoi. At the end of 1972, the Americans launched known as the Christmas Bombing. From December 18th to 29th, troops from the United States came together one last time to bring down Seventeen hundred bombing missions Over nine days, more than 15,000 tons of bombs Phung Tuu Boi is in the gardens in Nature Conservation During the war, At the time, he was 22 years old. To protect the employees from the bombing, On that day in December 1972, Phung Tuu Boi and his colleagues That is a bomb crater. We were in this bunker Right there in front of us. The bomb made a deep hole in the ground, The smoke from the explosion It rushed into the shelter. Our ears burst and we choked. I remember we were shaken very violently. In the center of Hanoi, the bunkers were built The bunker Phung Tuu Boi Up to 20 people could take shelter there. Its two entrances allowed the smoke thanks to the ventilation system. Today, the bunker is still covered after the explosion. Over time, the vegetation has regrown, and gradually begun In the gardens, the bomb craters After the bombing, we decided To make them livelier and more joyful, The end result counterbalances that the craters symbolize. The American bombing but the North Vietnamese Army's managed to bring down including 16 B-52s. These were new losses that the United States The Christmas Bombing Nixon's government asked to return to the negotiating table. On January 27th, 1973, the Paris Peace Accords in the Vietnam War. The American soldiers left the country, and the North and South Contrary to the signed agreements, Without its American allies, the South was weakened After two more years of combat, the North Vietnamese tanks On April 30th, 1975, Vietnam was reunified. Afterward, This radical political shift Thousands of southern Vietnamese tried to escape the re-education camps, More than 40 years the bodies of many soldiers The bodies of 300,000 Vietnamese are lying somewhere in Vietnam. Jesse Stephen is an archaeologist. He works for an agency responsible for finding the bodies Its new project is located only 50 kilometers from the old border. With the support the team is on the trail who went missing 50 years ago. This area is one location from the landing zone worked its way up and over this ridge, where they were ambushed and sustained some losses. In order to find the traces Jesse and his team have to reach the layer There's a little piece That's a nice chunk of wood. The presence of carbon This layer of dark soil was probably If someone buried someone here, so we're going to follow this deeper. The soil is moved to the sorting station, where team members pass That's where Roger Antrim comes in. He is the US military expert the nature of the evidence Normally, on sites, because Vietnam You may find a boot. You may find a parachute, Sometimes you are at a site that you can even still read the writing because it's been saturated so it just preserves everything. Here, we have had the more recent shoe. The shoe from a Vietnamese soldier. All the items found Here, on the other side of the Pacific, the evidence unearthed The Pentagon has classified While the investigation is ongoing, the experts can reveal nor the place where they went missing. Today, Howard Mariteragi, is investigating the crash During the excavation, archeologists found several items Among them is a shovel and a helmet, but also several other items In this case, we were able Now, this piece is what we call In this bracket, one microphone. Having two pieces meant or two crew members on that particular F-4 Both of them hit the ground After analyzing the remains the experts discovered Clues allowing them This particular item is a watch. The interesting thing was that all of these watches and assigned to one particular person, and the serial number We know exactly who this watch belongs to. Probably the best gift of all He was wearing every one We treat it with respect, because these are the last vestiges Thanks to the work one of the pilots The government will speak before they release To date, more than 1,000 soldiers Ceremonies are held to honor their lives when their remains It's a tribute that shows the return of a loved one that the American government In the Vietnamese culture, the souls of millions of dead who gather before altars, Many cemeteries honor the communists who fought In Bien Hoa, the largest was inaccessible Today, the area has been renovated More than 40 years Vietnam is back on its feet Vietnamese people are feeling freer which were among the bloodiest A dirty war