There will be 22 balloons in today's parade, depending on how you count, right? Because there are some that are legacy balloons, some that are first time balloons. Many are making their debut this morning. As we said, this is the first appearance for Minnie Mouse. I think she's also one of the biggest in this, I believe. So, yes. which is pretty exciting because I like that she's dominating go, Minnie! Also dominating this parade, our very own Harry Enten Harry. In some ways your responsible for Thanksgiving today. How's it going out there? I gotta tell you, it's raining. It's pouring. I know there's some old men snoring, but the bottom line is you can't rain on my parade. I got the hand warmer out. I got my buffalo hat representing my Buffalo Bills. Tom, our cameraman can show you. We've got people who are coming out so far. We're going to get plenty more folks who are coming out. But I will just tell you guys, I am so in a Thanksgiving, so into parade, so into balloons that a few weeks ago, just before Election Day, I went out to the Meadowlands to learn more about the balloons. So let's take a listen. 100 years in the making. And finally, Minnie Mouse is going to be in the parade. A big character, a big balloon, and a big first appearance for Minnie Mouse. I say it's about time. Minnie is our tallest balloon in the parade, so every year we're looking for ways that we can surprise and delight and bring these big, giant characters to life. One of the interesting things we were just talking about off camera there is how much helium goes in. Really depends on kind of the weather. I don't understand any of this. Maybe if I went back to weather camp I get it. But like, how does it exactly work where you sometimes need more helium or less helium? So we use a mix of helium and cold air in our balloons to help them fly. So a lot of that is based on the lift in each balloon, which is determined by the size of the balloon, how many chambers are in the balloon, and helium expands in heat. So if it's going to be a warmer day, we might use less helium and more cold air to ensure that the balloon is flying and looking right on. On Thanksgiving morning, you going woohoo with. So we've got a balloon right in the sky. This is like amazing, right? This is Gabby from Gabby's Dollhouse. This balloon started production almost eight months ago. From initial sketches. Let me go into a 3D render. We pattern out the entire balloon, we build it in studio and today is our opportunity to fly it in real world conditions. We have six new balloons this year. How do you choose which balloons that are actually going to see the light of day? The goal of any Macy's Thanksgiving Day balloon. It's really about finding those characters that resonate with audiences of all ages. I'm here with my dear friend Spider-Man, who swoops his webbing all over the bad guys. We're going to attack crime together, Swift, you taught me that when I was going like this. This. There's a particular. What? It's not again. So you were telling me it's a whip, right? The whip to whip is the sound effect. The whip that Spider-Man makes when he slings webs. Oh, yeah. Quick. So there are some things that you can obviously plan for, but then there are some things that you can't possibly plan for. What is perhaps one of the things that has occurred over the years where it's like, wait a minute, what what happened here? I think every year there's something that can happen that's unexpected. But I think one of the great things about this team at Macy's Studios and the thousands of volunteers that helped make this parade come to life, is that we're really prepared. We do trainings throughout the year for balloons. Of course, weather is our biggest contingency, and so we have different plans for different wind speeds that happen on the parade morning. And we're prepared for anything that can come our way. Yes. Man down, man, they're your friends are down on the ground. We're learning that practice hopefully will make perfect because it turns out inflating a balloon and keeping up into the air ain't so easy for. So we cut the ribbon and we start the parade. What is it? One. How does. Three, two. One. Let's have a parade. Three. Two. One. Let's have a parade. Look, the bottom line is, I don't care if it's raining. I taking the hat off. It's just going to be a glorious day regardless of the weather. Because when there are balloons and there are floats and there's a parade, it's a sunny day. And as my Uncle Neil once said in the 1970s, you gotta make your own sunshine. So I'm making my own sunshine, my own sunshine today, guys. By the way, he's talking about Neil Sedaka, who really is Harry's uncle. And I do hesitate to say this, but when you're wearing the bill's hat, the one thing I was thinking, you know, we look like a bills fan. I was like, Harry, don't do this. You know, maybe Harry should have no shirt on. He should be like, you know, have no shirt. And out there in his skin with a big like tee for Thanksgiving painted on your chest, like giving the naked cowboy a run for his money. I will do anything for you. John Berman and Erica, we know. And anything for ratings. That's why we love you, Harriette, and thank you very much. All right. Let's head back to Philadelphia. Post unveil fully Dressed is waiting for us from America's longest running Thanksgiving Day parade. And you are, as I understand it, just a little jump away from the iconic rocky steps at the Philadelphia museum of Art. I see some balloons in the air there. Two polo. Erica. I've been at Macy's for the Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York. I've loved every minute of it, but let me tell you, I am definitely feeling the love here in the city of Brotherly Love. Can I get some cheers from the crowd here in Philly next to this massive turkey? Folks, things are getting ready to get started. I got some people from Washington. I got some people from Kansas City. I got three sisters back there getting ready to pull that, pull the turkey, and also an invitation to join you at the Thanksgiving. Most definitely. We have more than enough. You can come on down. We have a 22 pound turkey. We're smoking 105 years. This parade's been running a little bit of rain is not about to stop. It doesn't stop you at all. Absolutely not. What are you most excited about today? I just loved the parade. The excitement, the balloons. This is the beginning of the holiday season, and you get to spend all this great time with the gobblers. The gobblers? I love turkey people. All right folks, the gobblers enjoy today. Stay dry very quickly. I'll send off with with this pretty incredible image. That's Tweety Bird right here. You can see a lot of brave souls working to strip Tweety down as things get ready to get started. And finally, they're ready for this. Even taking down the traffic lights as well temporarily to accommodate these massive floods. Erica John from Philadelphia, let's go back to you. It's great. I love that you have a new dinner invitation problem. Not surprising. Probably one of the loveliest people on the planet. The gobblers want to go over Thanksgiving. I got some people in Philadelphia today. Just shout out to all of you. I am thankful for all my people down there today. All right now to Atlanta, where people are burning calories ahead of the big meal. That's a good idea. The largest Thanksgiving half marathon in the country just underway. That is where we find CNN meteorologist Allison Chin Cha. So how's the weather going to impact today's plans? Right. So it was a close one because when we first got here, it was raining and it rained. Really? Maybe so about's about 30 minutes right until the race began, but it is dry now. The weather is perfect for running. The half marathoners have already been going. They're about to start the five K behind me again. Not exactly the warmest, but honestly, this is perfect weather here for this race itself. Now, one thing to note this isn't the only location, however. It's been looking at rain. If you look at the country, you've got rain showers stretching from Georgia all the way up through Maine. That includes Philadelphia, Washington, D.C. and yes, unfortunately, it also includes New York, where the parade is set to begin here shortly. One thing to note the rain is coming in waves, so it's not always going to be heavy. You'll get some light portions, then you'll get some heavier portions, but no snow at least this year for the parade. That's going to be the only good spot in the parade forecast itself, because it's also going to be a little bit chilly, but we are expecting snow interior portions of the Northeast in New England. Some spots could pick up as much as a foot of snow before it's all finally said and done. Guys, back to you. All right, meteorologist Allison, here in Atlanta, where it's not raining, waiting for those light waves to come through because so far it's been just the heavy winds of rain. We're in a band right now. We've got some of the bands.