Autumn 1943. Following General Vatutin and Konev Their first goal is to cross the mighty From there the road leads west, Dawn on a summer's day, 1943. revealed a column of grey vehicles and men They were moving west. The column of soldiers and vehicles kept on From behind them came Each burst caused the retreating Germans to cast anxious glances But then they heard a new sound. The soldiers began to run, It was the squeal of tank tracks, The tanks approached Then there was a deafening explosion. German demolition charges had collapsed With them, went the Soviet High of getting tanks quickly Soviet infantry had crossed But without tank support, the Germans After the German defeat the frontline began to race westwards. The Red Army advanced in with more than 2.6 million men The German High Command planned The army was ordered to dig in to form the so-called Wotan line. To slow the Soviet advance, von Manstein's Anything that could not be carried It was nothing less than the systematic This was one of the the climactic claimed more than 5 million civilian As the Germans retreated westwards, they destroyed all the bridges, The advance across this devastated landscape Fuel and ammunition had to be delivered Heavy artillery and bridging North of Kiev, Andrey Kravchenko's became one of the first units Andrey Grigoryevich Kravchenko whose brigade had played a key part The following year he commanded after which his unit was renamed In 1943 he fought at the famous tank battle Kravchenko was rather heavily In fact he was so large that it was impossible to close the hatch. The wide Desna river did not stop the tanks Without waiting for the bridging units, his men made their tanks But the Dnieper was too deep Only the infantry, using rafts and floats, They established small footholds on South of Kiev, an extraordinary to get the 40th and 3rd Guards The Dnieper here was about 600 metres wide. Almost a thousand piles were used able to bear the weight of a tank. The engineers worked under Germany But after ten days, the bridge was ready. T-34s from the 3rd Guards Tank Army Meanwhile, the Germans had been The Ukrainian capital Kiev and would be almost impossible Therefore General Vatutin, decided on two flanking attacks Throughout October, to fight their way out of the bridgeheads. As winter came, it seemed So Vatutin decided to change the plan. and use all his armoured About 40,000 soldiers and hundreds of tanks, moved north On the morning of 5th November immediately cutting the highway The Germans' only escape route was blocked. entering by the twisting road that runs Today this street is still In the city itself burning buildings, tracer rounds and flares The Red Army tank crews smashed The surviving Germans made a hasty exit. By dawn the city was clear. General Kravchenko's 4th could add another battle honour The Red Army liberated Kiev just one day before the anniversary of the Bolshevik There were rumours that Stalin take Kiev by the anniversary But this was probably not true. Otherwise Vatutin would have But instead, he'd chosen to first cut off by encircling the city from the west. That winter, Ukraine was to be The vast open steppe, once frozen hard, Both sides poured in their The Red Army's 6th Tank Army, was formed in January 1944. It was to be led by the liberator of Kiev, His new army received By the beginning of 1944, the Red Army had advanced But the Germans still held a bulge Hitler, with total disregard for the facts, believed this could form a launchpad The Soviet High Command The Korsun-Shevchenkovsky Offensive The attack was led Two days later, the 1st Ukrainian Front The attack was led by the 245 tanks and self-propelled guns Self-propelled guns, or SPGs, were heavy guns mounted on the chassis They were a mobile form of artillery, used to provide fire support Heavy versions like the Soviet SU-152 were also effective at knocking out In just five days, with Rotmistrov's 5th Guards Tank Army Almost 60,000 Germans had been encircled. The trapped forces became known after the general commanding them. Two Soviet tank armies now turned south, The encircled Germans fought on, But all remembered at Stalingrad the previous winter. General Konev, commanding had promised Stalin But Hitler was equally adamant He told the encircled men: But for the present, stand firm General Hube, commanding 1st Panzer Army, radioed to Stemmermann simply: Meanwhile, the Luftwaffe was able Relying on air resupply had been The Luftwaffe had not been able But Group Stemmermann was Meanwhile, von Manstein was assembling He turned to the 3rd and 47th Panzerkorps, commanded by Generals Nikolaus Hermann Breith was a highly experienced, He was a veteran of the campaigns and had served with the Army General Staff He then commanded a panzer division, before leading 3rd Panzerkorps The Soviets came under attack reinforced by 80 Tigers and Panthers In February 1944, the Red Army's armed with a 76 millimetre gun. It was The Germans captured but they were still a few miles short And now Red Army reinforcements arrived - Both sides found it If previous winters had been unusually Already the thaw had turned The Battle of the Korsun-Cherkassy Pocket had become the decisive And it was here made its first appearance - The Iosef Stalin as a direct response to the German Tiger. Its front armour was 120mm thick, And although less accurate its powerful 122 millimetre gun was The IS-2 tanks were grouped and assigned to crucial sectors of the They were particularly effective at Versions of the IS-2 tank with the Russian army as late as 1995. The first combat between IS-2s The Germans held onto their gains, Group Stemmermann was bombarded General Seydlitz-Kurzbach, appealed to them by loudspeaker. A Soviet envoy was despatched with proposed Group Stemmermann knew it was now up to Fighting desperately, just 5 kilomeres short of 3rd Panzerkorps. A furious Stalin telegraphed Zhukov: "The reason for the enemy's breakthrough was not reinforced in a timely manner.", Rotmistrov's tank army was hurriedly A February frost had frozen the ground Breith was able to renew At the forefront of the fighting recruited largely But one by one, Fuel resupply by air was erratic, Field Marshal von Manstein, well remembered the Stalingrad disaster. There had been no attempt by the encircled This time, without consulting Hitler, "Group Stemmermann to the line Zhurzhentsy - Hill 239. There it will link up The encircled divisions prepared On the evening of 16 February, they and at dusk, began their advance. The Belgian Nazi Leon Degrelle, who commanded the 5th SS Volunteer "At 22.00, the Soviet batteries The burning houses lit up the retreating This made it easier for the Their shells fell onto our huge column. To survive, we had to drop That night, several units slipped The next day Soviet attack aircraft But most units Even worse, they found was still in Soviet hands, The Germans were forced to bypass Hill 239, but this put the Gniloy Tikich river between 20,000 men were trapped on It was 30 metres wide, freezing cold, T-34s were approaching from the north. Desperate to escape, some men improvised But many panicked, Hundreds were drowned. In all, about half of Group But there had been Amongst them General Stemmermann It could have been much The &quot;Stalingrad on the Dnieper&quot; that Konev But it was still a heavy defeat Step by step, river by river, The Battle of the Korsun-Cherkassy Pocket was only a prologue The heavy losses sustained there meant Army Group South could no longer As the battle raged around the pocket, was fighting its way westwards, Instead of tanks, his success with old fashioned cavalry. As they swept forwards another salient was formed, The Soviet High Command moved intending to launch them southwards against The offensive began on 22nd March 1944. Three days later, 200,000 men This new German pocket was centred Hitler ordered the Second SS panzer to rescue Hube's Panzer Army. With the help of these reinforcements, the 1st Panzer Army But most of their vehicles The rampant success had dramatic strategic implications. One was that the German that the great Soviet summer offensive So it was here that they rushed But the Red Army's summer offensive, would be launched in Byelorussia. It resulted in the liberation of Minsk, and the annihilation German panzer reserves had to be The two remaining German were moved to the rear They were to be held back On 14th July 1944, the 1st Ukrainian Breith's armoured reserve But the Soviets "On the march", "the 8th Panzer Division, moving in long It sustained great losses. All hopes of a counterattack collapsed." The 1st Ukrainian Front's advance led to the encirclement of the German Amongst its units was the 14th The 14th SS Division was called in German Its recruits were anti-Bolshevik a historic region of western Ukraine. In July 1944 the division It was commanded by a German - In 1943 it had been engaged In the summer of 1944, General von Mellenthin described how: "The SS Division Galicia, holding positions so the Russians penetrated deeply There was to be no breakout The survivors surrendered to the Red Army The SS Division Galicia who escaped the catastrophe at Brody. It was later used to fight The division surrendered Thanks to the influence of the Vatican, as good Catholics its members were able to avoid Instead many settled in Britain and Canada. Now Soviet tank armies raced towards Lvov. But the Germans and were able to repel Soviet forces began to outflank The news that Soviet tanks had been The Germans abandoned the city. The Red Army crossed the border At the end of July, they captured across the Vistula river. This would become the launch pad The southern flank of the Eastern Front if it hadn't been for the vital factor They were essential Hitler would defend But he rejected a proposal to retreat to a as suggested by Hitler's ally, The only way through the mountains known as the Focsani Gate. Here, Antonesu Romania could have been turned But Hitler was utterly inflexible In the summer of 1944, the Romanian It was held by the German 6th Army. The 6th Army was formed in October 1939. The next year it marched into France, In 1941 it led Army Group but 19 months later The army was re-formed the following It might have been thought that But the army wanted to forget the and instead, revive the fighting This was the army that had marched and advanced fearlessly through Ukraine. Ironically, the 6th Army had the same Its flanks were held The Stavka High Command The 2nd Ukrainian Front and the 3rd Ukrainian front converging thrusts in order to encircle Kravchenko's 6th Tank Army It had not been in action for several bristling with more than 400 tanks This was the only Soviet tank army Its role was to make the breakthough before leading the advance Meanwhile the other Soviet tank armies Soviet preparations The Stavka's main concern was that the before the offensive was unleashed. By 1944 the Red Army were masters The Germans on the Dniester River In mid August, General Fretter-Pico, reported that all was quiet on his front. Little did he realise it was the calm The Soviet offensive across One German officer remembered, "The divisional headquarters came From our vantage point, it seemed with a dense cloud of smoke. Romanian and German units were soon they lacked the anti-tank defences On the third day of fighting, By then most of its escape routes had columns of German troops were strafed The 6th Army raced to get back But as retreating Geman units they ran straight into Red Army T-34s, The tanks caused carnage amongst The next day, white flares were greeted It meant that the 2nd The Soviets had encircled The German and Romanian survivors The offensive had been Meanwhile, the 22 year old summoned Marshal Antonescu to his palace. He asked Antonescu to take the country out When he refused, the king had him arrested. With a guarantee from the USSR that Romania joined the Allies. Within days, the Romanian Army There were still significant particularly guarding The Germans used these to try But they were repulsed Now Kravchenko's 6th Tank Army to advance rapidly on the Focsani Gate, His tanks raced ahead, passing fortifications abandoned Three days later, The next day, they reached The surviving German forces across the Carpathian mountains to Hungary. Few units managed to escape. After several unsuccessful attempts German 6th Army To defeat Paulus's 6th Army To defeat Fretter-Pico's 6th Army For this brilliant victory, the coveted title, &quot;Guards&quot;. It was just 8 months since That autumn of 1944, while operations the Battle of Hungary roared into life. Here Hitler was desperate to hang The Soviet advance westwards was slowed by difficult What's more, Romania used a different It meant all supplies arriving by rail These logisitical problems slowed But nevertheless, towards the Hungarian capital, Budapest. Meanwhile, Hitler had ordered Amongst them was General Breith's With 6th Guards Tank Army leading the way, the 2nd Ukrainian Front But a direct attack on the city The Hungarian capital was to be encircled. 6th Guards Tank Army began its advance scattering the German forces in its path. In the south, the 3rd Ukrainian and encircled Budapest from the west. The German reverses near Budapest The 6th Army, reformed once again, of General Hermann Balck. Its mission To achieve this goal, 6th Army redeployed from Poland. objected strongly to weakening Fierce fighting raged as SS panzer units tried Soviet ultimatums sent to The fighting that followed and killed nearly 40,000 civilians. The garrison finally surrendered On 7th January, Soviet tanks reached on route to the Hungarian oil refineries. But Hitler, increasingly isolated had not given up hope in Hungary. He planned to send in the massed now organised into the 6th SS Panzer Army. After securing his oil supplies, to hurl back the Soviets Soviet forces in Hungary would face But by tieing them down in the south, would not be available The movement of the SS Panzer Army did not To counter this threat, was hurriedly reinforced These vechicles were specifically designed The 3rd Ukrainian Front It now had more than any other Soviet The SU-100 self-propelled gun It was built on the same but had a forward-facing 100 mm gun. This fearsome weapon could penetrate at 1500 metres. Mass production The last German offensive of World War II and stopped by the concentrated With the German assault blunted, The huge numerical advantage to constantly threaten the enemy The SS panzer army retreated where they prepared But on 13th April, after several Vienna fell to the Red Army. But this was not the last battle Even as the Soviet Victory banner fluttered Field Marshal Schorner's Army Group The 6th Guards Tank Army They were joined by tanks of the 1st The two Soviet Fronts encircling Army Group Centre, In Czechoslovakia, the Red Army including 60 generals. Victory was complete in the south. But in the meantime, a ferocious and desperate battle It was the climactic battle of the war... the Battle for Berlin.